Tucked away in a not-so-busy locale of   is author Mahabaleshwar Sail’s humble abode, where he lives with his wife of 50 years. The day’s regional language newspapers in   and Marathi sit in a pile on his coffee table, and the smell of freshly-brewed tea wafts from the kitchen.
 
  The ambience is comforting, all within the boundary of the mundane, nothing to give away that this is the home of a well-known author, until the visitor’s eyes chance on the contents of the showcase facing the sofa.
  
  In it are rows of citations and awards, all neatly lined up, while a small shelf accommodates books in English, Kannada,   and Marathi. These are books   has authored and their translations by publication houses keen on letting more readers know of his work.
  
  “I had an interest in writing since childhood, but it was the emotional upheavals in my personal life that later led me to pen down my feelings. This resulted in a series of short stories and poems, many of which I went on to publish,” he tells  .
  
  Originally from Karwar’s   village, Sail first came to Goa in 1967, after serving in the army as a postmaster for a short while.
  
  His tryst with writing began in 1972 when he gave a shot at composing poetry in Marathi.
  
  One of Sail’s first stories is ‘Kaliganga’, but he is best known for his work ‘Paltoddcho Munis’, from his anthology titled Adrishtha. The story made it to the silver screen.
  
  “I have seen the agony and struggles of people working in forest outposts located deep in the jungles. This inspired me to write the story. I wanted to give them a voice through my writing,” he says. His early writings were therefore a narrative of his socio-cultural observations and personal experiences, artistically channelled through the medium of literature.
  
  “During various points in my life: while growing up in Karwar, my stint in the military, when moving to Goa, etc, there were things I felt strongly about. This emerged in the stories that I wrote, be it the ecology of   or the division of labour in the Christian gawda community. My more recent work, ‘Age of Frenzy’ focusses on the forced Christian conversion by the Portuguese,” he says.
  
  The 74-year-old writer has four daughters, two of who have published their own writings, and one son. With his children married and living in different cities, Sail spends a lot of time focusing on his writing and speaking to literature students. “Many college students and lecturers come to visit me on a regular basis to know more about my works. Most of them are students of English and Konkani major.”
  
  Like every writer, Sail also has the desire to see more of his stories make it to the silver screen. Insisting that the literary depth of a story must be exuded on screen also, he says that writers must be consulted by filmmakers during the process of production.
  
  The septuagenarian was recently honoured with the   2016 for his novel ‘Hawthan’.
  
  Seemingly relaxed about this additional feather in his hat of achievements he says, “I am satisfied with the award. Of the 22 official languages in India, Hawthan was selected for the award, which means it must be worth something. Age of Frenzy also deserved some recognition, but it has been rejected by the Sahitya Sammelan’s jury twice.”
  
  After writing for 40 years, he believes that there is a sadhana that sinks in, which makes him feel at peace with himself. “A writer’s first work is for his own expression and to channel his emotions. The following works are written for the readers. The awards that follow are a consequence,” he says.
  
  Speaking about the literary scenario in Goa, he says, “Until 1961, Konkani literature didn’t have much of an identity. In the last 50 years there has been a tremendous rise in this field and Konkani literature is being recognized at the national level. This is a very commendable achievement.”
  
  Sail is also of the opinion that the young band of Konkani writers is yet to reach that level, both in terms of interest and writing. “There are many young Konkani writers writing for leisure, but none are serious. They are happy with the publication of a novel or a few stories. The dedication and commitment towards writing is lacking. I have not seen such potential in the young Konkani writers of today and am very dissatisfied with them,” he concludes.
