AHMEDABAD: To document the patterns of movement of the critically endangered Great Indian bustard, the   (WII) has gone in for satellite tagging of two of the birds in Gujarat. Studying and documenting both within state and cross-border movement of the birds will greatly aid understanding their behaviour and long-term conservation efforts by WII and Gujarat forest department, believe experts.

 Officials in the forest department said, “This is the first time that the GIB is being tagged in Gujarat. In the past such tagging was done in Maharashtra.”
 
 The birds, of which only about 20 are left in Kutch, are suspected to move across the border into Pakistan, periodically. Most sightings of the bird in Pakistan, however, are of dead birds.
 
 “There are occasional sightings of the birds in Pakistan. So far, 46 sightings of the bird have been reported in that country, of which 43 were of dead birds,” said  , researcher and scientist of animal ecology and conservation biology, WII. atellite tracking of the birds will help to document and establish whether the birds found in Pakistan belong to the same group or population that is in India.
 
 Speaking of the birds sighted in Pakistan, Jhala said, “They are sighted occasionally and are not resident birds there. The tagging will help researchers to pinpoint the period when the birds cross over to Pakistan, and how long they stay there.”
 
 Given that only 30 of the birds are left in four states including Gujarat, Karnataka, Maharashtra and  , prevention of loss or death of the birds has gained paramount importance.
 
 The pattern of movement of the birds within the state also requires study, as there are multiple local threats to their survival. For instance, a lot of development is taking place in Naliya region including high-tension power lines that can easily cause deaths of the birds.
 
 “This tagging will give the department and the institute the exact idea of where these birds move to after venturing out of breeding area,” Jhala added. G K Sinha, principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), said, “The study will help us prepare a long-term conservation strategy for the GIB, based on the data received about the movement of the birds.” The state government has sanctioned 18 times more land than was previously given, for protecting the Great Indian Bustard, which is on the verge of extinction in Kutch. 
 
