PANAJI: The   (NIO) has found high concentrations of microplastics containing chemical pollutants, in fish tissue, mollusks (squids, mussels, etc) and sea birds off the Galgibaga and Keri beaches.

 A group of NIO scientists led by senior scientist,  , are studying the distribution, source and effect of microplastic pollution on biota (animal and plant life of a particular region). They have examined six beachesKeri, Calangute and Vagator in North Goa, and Galgibaga, Colva and Mobor in South Goa.
 
 When consumed by fish, microplastics don’t settle as sediments but become a part of their biomass, which when consumed by humans, can have an adverse impact on health.
 
 These microplastics contain two chemical pollutants; persistent organic pollutants like PCB and PAH that are hazardous to the biota; and plasticizers like bisphenol-A which are insoluble in water.
 
 “We have found high concentrations of these pollutants in fish tissue, mollusks and sea birds of these beaches. When we consume these organisms, the concentration level of these pollutants magnifies in our body because of its solubility in lipids. This is highly carcinogenic,” Saha said.
 
 NIO’s acting director, Dr Prasanna Kumar, said large amounts of plastic are getting accumulated in the gyres (large system of circulating ocean currents) of the Indian Ocean, Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, a phenomenon that has occurred only in recent years.
 
 “The issue of microplastics in our oceans will eventually become a universal problem. The entire gamut of the marine food web will be affected,” he said.
 
 The scientists are also looking at monsoon waves and pattern of currents to determine the pathway of microplastics.
 
 “Fresh inputs of microplastics are washed in during the south-west monsoon, while disintegrated ones come in during the north-east monsoon,” Saha said.
 
 NIO is currently trying to determine the source of all the plastic; how much microplastic has accumulated in the biota, to what levels they hinder the sea’s oxygen and carbon levels, and if there is any accumulation at the phytoplankton (microscopic plants) level.
 
 Kumar told STOI that microplastics washed ashore, accumulate on the sand. Leaching of the microplastics in high concentration will therefore pollute the sand as well, he said.
 
 “NIO is ready to join hands with any agency that can bring about a change in the consumption pattern of plastics and/or get a legislation that can curtail their use,” he added.
 
