CHENNAI: A grid of 4sqkm on the   bordering Chennai has recorded the most accidents in the state – one every five days — in 2015. Four of the top five high accident grids were around Chennai, a   by experts showed.

 As a part of a comprehensive trauma care plan for  , a team of officials divided the state into 37,000 grids of 4sqkm each to analyse causes of accidents.
 
 National Crime Records Bureau records show that in 2015 there were 17,376 deaths and more than 70,000 road accidents. The state’s own data showed that 460 more road accident deaths took place in 2015 when compared to 2014. When officials mapped the accidents from police data, they found most highway accidents were closer to cities and took place between 7pm and 8pm.
 
 The reasons according to traffic police are obvious — Chennai has the largest vehicle density in the country with 2,093 vehicles for every kilometre of the road. “A man driving on the highway is generally moving at high speed because there are not many vehicles on the road. As he nears a city, the driver does not realise that there could be an oncoming vehicle that can hit him,” said a senior official from the State Traffic Planning Cell.
 
 The official said the department has not been able to reduce the incidence of fatal accidents because it does not know what caused the accidents. The estimated average response time for policemen to reach the accident spot on a highway is anywhere between one to three hours. When they reach the spot, they take a photograph of the vehicle and victims, and note down whatever they see, he said.
 
 To resolve the issue, the transport department along with Road Accident Management System (RADMS) has developed an app for traffic policemen. “The policeman needs to click a photograph of the accident and we will get the coordinates of the spot. We will have details about the vehicles and their positions,” a senior transport department official said.
 
 State transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar said the state is working to reduce accidents and fatalities by half in the next three years. “It is a combined effort by departments such as police, transport and health,” he said.
 
 Although more than 70% of accident cases have been recorded as caused by driver fault, statistics drawn up by officials show more complex problems involving road engineering, enforcement of rules and emergency measures, said Gitakrishnan Ramadurai, assistant professor, department of civil engineering, IIT-Madras.
 
 For instance, the mapping done by the officials showed that risk increased with the size of the roads. While 37% of fatalities took place on national highways, 34% occurred on state highways and 19% on major district roads. Between 2011 and 2015, there was one accident death and four accidents for every kilometre on a 6-lane road, while on a four -lane and two-lane road, there is one fatality for every two kilometres. “Many highways pass through towns and villages. It is important to build acceleration and deceleration zones for people to approach and exit highways,” he said.
 
 
