PANAJI: The state government’s grandiose exercise for a suitable   (RP) has been virtually in a “draft” stage for almost 20 years, as it has failed to notify a complete land use document adhering to all requirements.

 With the state headed for another election, the   managed to finalize only rectified plans of Satari, Pernem and Canacona at the fag end of its five-year term. Earlier, the Congress government had notified an all-taluka RP 2021 in December 2011, but   had criticized it as an error-ridden plan with controversial projects and one that also did not incorporate their key inputs.
 
 A review of planning since late 1990s when plans for RP 2011 were first initiated is a disappointing one for activists and environmentalists. Long delays, ad hoc decisions, bypassing of draft and notified RP and massive environmental destruction has been the hallmark of the almost two-decade long planning process, they allege.
 
 “If you look at the planning process for almost a decade or two decades, it is all about ad hoc decisions that have resulted in irreversible damage to the state’s environment,” Sabina Martins, Goa Bachao Abhiyan (GBA) convener, said.
 
 The process to draw up RP with a long-term perspective was initiated in 1997-1998 through Consulting Engineering Services, a private firm from Delhi. After some false starts, a draft RP 2011 was notified only in August 2006. This plan sparked off extensive protests. GBA which was formed in December 2006 worked to get it scrapped in 2007 along with village groups, resulting in notification of RP 2021 by December 2011.
 
 Stakeholders had appreciated use of improved mapping techniques and demarcation of ecologically sensitive zones in the plan. But arbitrary increase in settlement and industrial zones not shown at draft stage, hotel projects in green areas, and omission of cultivable areas and water bodies irked activists.
 
 Town and country planning (TCP) department had agreed to carry out corrections, of which exercise, only three taluka plans of Sattari, Pernem and Canacona have been rectified by December 2016. The state level committee (SLC) carried out the process of verifying and carrying out ground level checking of RP plans of these talukas. Changes were made from stakeholders suggestions. “Sattari plan is a model one extending protection to eco fragile areas in one-km buffer zone and forest areas,” a source said.
 
 “But these plans are neither shown to people nor notified as yet, so we don’t know what has been done,” Abhijeet Prabhudesai, an environmental activist, said.
 
 Both plans, RP 2011 and 2021, have been drafted by committees loaded with bureaucrats and architects.
 
 After BJP government put RP 2021 on the back burner, TCP had issued an order directing that all proposals based on it were to be kept in abeyance with effect from March 20, 2012 till further orders. Till then, RP 2001 was to be used as a reference plan for genuine developmental activities with certain restrictions and guidelines.
 
 But activists alleged that this ambiguity had caused major environmental damage to the state. RP 2001 had not marked state’s green and eco sensitive zones, as it was an in-house exercise of planning without reliance on consultancy services.
 
 A TCP official denied that RP 2021 is an incomplete plan, as it was notified in 2011. The corrections sought by activists are minimal, but most suggestions are requests for development, which are not being allowed. “There is also no ambiguity in use of 2001 plan in old land use,” he asserted.
 
 Environmentalists are wary of the government approach of allowing projects despite the half-baked RP 2021. “The government wants to go ahead with projects of some builders and others which will have serious consequences for the future,” Prabhudesai said.
 
