Nitesh Tiwari, who directed the blockbuster movie Dangal, is currently working on a screen adaptation of Varun Agarwal’s 2012 bestseller 
 .

 The spokesperson of   said, "We are excited to be collaborating with Nitesh on adapting Varun's incredibly relevant and hilarious book to the screen." He added, "We look forward to making a film that humorously explores the challenges of growing up in today's India, where the traditional medicine-MBA-engineering templates of the earlier generation are competing with the excitement of 'starting-up' on your own."
 
  The novel is a based on a true story set in Bengaluru about pursuing one’s own dreams, and Anu aunty is supposed to be an allegorical reference to the Indian society. 
 
  Varun, like his namesake in the book and the 20-something protagonist, wanted to set up his own company after getting degree in telecommunications engineering, much to the dismay of his mother who called for the help of her friend to dissuade him, aka Anu aunty. 
 
  Despite Anu aunty's constant monitoring and mockery and bickering, Varun, after several alcohol-induced conversations with his school friend and partner,  , founded a merchandising company that creates customized clothing and accessories for the alumni of schools and colleges across India.
 
  Varun chronicled his adventure in Facebook blogs which found him a publisher. In eight days, when he was ill and unable to leave the house, he dashed off a 50,000-word book which went on to become a bestseller. 
 
  Today, Varun, the reluctant engineer is a successful entrepreneur with three start-up companies under his name. Besides the first, there's also a social media marketing company and a film-production house. 
 
  Varun is contemplating on a sequel to his debut novel to chronicle his filmmaking journey that depicts his coming a way from making short-films and music videos with a handycam to making films.
 
  The upcoming movie will feature "one of the top stars from the younger set". They are currently evaluating who would be best suited to play the lead role. 
 
 The film will be produced by   and   under their banners   and Roy Kapur Films respectively.
 
 
