KOLKATA:   and   has refused the  , conferred on him 37 years after he received a   in 1980. The decision, however, hasn’t come as a shock to the  . Many had already expressed anguish over why a senior musician like him has received this award so late in life.

 Khan, the son of Ustad Inayat Khan and younger brother of Ustad Vilayat Khan, was born in Kolkata and divides his time between the city and St Louis. In a letter to the Indian Consulate in Chicago, who was touch with him to announce the news of the award, Khan wrote about how the government of India has chosen to recognize him with the Padma Shri during the “last moments” of his life. 
 
 “While I acknowledge the good intentions behind this move, I have mixed feelings, without holding any prejudice, about the purpose of this award, which comes perhaps many decades late — while my juniors receive the Padma Bhushan,” he wrote in his letter (a copy of which is with TOI).
 
 Elaborating on his contributions to Indian music in general, and surbahar in particular, Khan said, “I have had the privilege to perform with the pillars of Indian art and culture, like Ustad Vilayat Khan, Ustad Bismillah Khan, Ustad Amedjan Thirakwa Khan, Pandit V G Jog and many others. Each of them, geniuses in their own right, were also worthy recipients of the Padma Bhushan or Padma Vibhushan awards.”
 
 Khan said that he “doesn’t expect that at this moment in his life his devotion and contributions be diminished to a lower level than his followers, students and sons — by age or reputation”. “I have never compromised in my life. Why should I compromise now when this award presented to me is not parallel to my worldwide reputation and contributions to the pure arts and culture of India?” 
 
 His response, Khan insisted, is not a matter of “self-aggrandizement” but an “issue of propriety towards the trust, faith and recognition” bestowed on him by the greatest masters of the golden era of India classical music. “It is also about cherishing this legacy,” he said.
 
 The maestro’s son, sitarist Nishat Khan, said he feels “incredibly honoured and grateful” that the government of India is bestowing a Padma award on his father. “But I am very sad that my father did not get the Padma Vibhushan, which he so rightfully deserves just like his contemporaries,” he said.
 
 Ustad Rashid Khan, who also has a Padma Shri, told TOI that Khan should have been given a Padma Vibhushan, which is awarded for exceptional and distinguished service. “He is a senior artist who has performed for a long time. It is disrespectful to confer on him a Padma Shri so late in his life. Even those who are like his children have got this award long back. The government should rethink on this.”
 
 
