 star   has done it again. He has bagged the numero-uno position on the most coveted list of the city’s Most Desirable Men for the year 2016. On a list that includes a host of new entrants, along with a couple of expected names, it is Sudeep’s continuous onscreen, online and off-screen presence that probably has him soar above. With votes received online on
 
  along with our vote, the 43-year-old is Bangalore Times  . In a chat with Bangalore Times, Sudeep has this to share…
 
  
 
  I have never been analytical about myself. I wish the human mind was like a hard drive, wherein you could plug in a wire and see what all is there in the folders inside. If you say there are 10 people voting for me, there are already 10 different perspectives. Take a film, for example; there are 800 seats in a theatre — each person on those seats watches the same film from a different angle and perspective. We can’t really analyze what works for who out there. Now, this, a voting format like Most Desirable, is something that is happening outside of my domain, which is cinema. So, I would not know what it is that works. We see the polls when they are announced, we leave it at that. When the results are out, and you tell me I have won, the first thing that comes to mind is ‘Oh, OK, still?’ I smile.
  
  
 
  It’s probably the fact that I am 29 that makes me so desirable. And I am not moving from that age.
  
  
 
  Well, information is out there on Wikipedia. But I guess people like it that I have been 29 for many years. One short of 30 is a good place to be at. It’s nice.
  
  
 
  Not having certain points as an agenda can make certain things happen. Things like the number game in the industry, or the kind of business your film has done, or even getting ahead on a popularity contest — these should not become the focal point. What is important is what you are doing — your work. You need to give your 100% to that, because if there is a little bit of identification that allows me to even be a part of a Most Desirable list, it is because of my work. Everything good has come to me because of my work. Aspiring for your work to be the best is different from aspiring to be above the rest. Sure, there is a certain phase in life at which even I have aspired to be above. I walked into the industry with a lot of aspirations and idols. But I feel I was the chosen one; I was blessed because I had all the possible difficulties thrown at me. They made me angry at that time. But without those experiences, my focus would not have been so strong. I would not have learnt how to deal with failures and rise from there. The fire within me drove me to do something about myself. I would call that phase of my life my inspiration and that is what has got me here. However, there are some moments and incidents that make you want to leave the numbers game behind and do something that truly satisfies you. Today, I have a bigger inspiration and that is my work. Now, it is about ‘What next’. It is my film, my audience, my theatre. And when you are not there, there are others doing well and that does not bother or affect me, as I am busy with my own goals concerning my work. At some point, we need to go beyond numbers and look at evolving as actors.
  
  
 
  I have always been connected to people on social media. Yes, there are questions out there planted to make me angry, but I can see through them. It gives me a clarity about real appreciation and love, as well as triggers and forced agenda. But I feel that reaching out has helped bring in a clarity to people’s perception of me as a person. And that shows with the love they continue to shower on me, and I am ever grateful.
  
  
 
  Yes, of course. I am very happy that I have been on top in spite of the competition from various fields apart from  . It is indeed a miracle. But, yes, I would love to see others on the list and will look forward to voting for them.
  
  
