GANDHINAGAR:   will arrive in Gujarat on Monday, on a two-day visit to the state. This will be his fourth visit to his home state in 2017 when   are scheduled towards the end of the year.

 On Monday, Modi will dedicate to the nation the   at Bhachau in the arid district of Kutch. Later, he will also lay the foundation stone of Rs 906 crore worth infrastructure projects at Kandla Port Trust, one of India's largest seaports in the Gulf of Kutch.
 
 On Tuesday, the PM will inaugurate the 52nd annual meeting of   (AfDB) at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar. AfDB is the premier financial institution of Africa with 54 regional member nations and 26 non-regional members.
 
 Modi will participate in the inaugural session of the event whose central theme is ‘Transforming Agriculture for Wealth Creation in Africa’. Around 3,000 delegates and participants are expected to attend the event.
 
 Prominent among heads of state who will be present include Senegal president Macky Sall; Benin Republic president Patrice Talon; and vice-president of Ivory Coast, Daniel Kablan Duncan among others.
 
 Being India’s governor to AfDB, union finance minister Arun Jaitley will be conducting the meetings as chairperson.
 
 Apart from the release of African Economic Outlook 2017 and exhibitions by companies, the AfDB annual meeting will also have sessions over five days on nutrition challenges, agriculture transformations, engaging Africa’s youth in agriculture and discussion on Africa-Asia partnerships.
 
 Earlier, on April 7 this year, the PM had visited Botad to inaugurate the Link-2 of the state government's ambitious SAUNI (Saurashtra Narmada Avtaran Irrigation) project by formally releasing Narmada waters in Krushnasagar dam.
 
 On March 7, he had inaugurated ONGC Petro additions Ltd (OPaL), a Rs 30,000 crore petrochemicals complex at Dahej in Bharuch. On March 8, he addressed a large gathering of women sarpanches from across India on International Women's Day.
 
 At the beginning of 2017, Modi had embarked on two-day visit to Gujarat on January 9-10 to inaugurate the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit and a host of high-profile pre-summit events.
 
