VISAKHAPATNAM: Works on the much-hyped   (VCIC) seems to be moving at a snail’s pace.

 At the international summit hosted by the AP government here in January 2016, the concerned authorities including chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu had said the government would move fast on the progress of VCIC and would keep ready all the requisite formalities at least for the first phase in the next one year.
 
 After the summit, in October 2016, Asian Development Bank came forward in October with an assurance of funding USD 631 million for the 800-km long corridor covering all the nine coastal districts. However, there has been no progress on the project since then.
 
 After almost one year, the state government is now gearing up to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the union government regarding the project at the upcoming CII AP State Government International Summit scheduled to be held here on January 27 and 28.
 
 Concerned government officials in the presence of the CM will sign papers with the National Industrial Corridor Development & Implementation Trust (NICDIT), an apex body constituted by the union government to oversee development of all five industrial corridors across the country. Kartikeya Mishra, director of  , said, “The MoU for VCIC will be signed between the state government and Centre at the global partnership summit.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, district collector   said, “Works on the Vizag-Chennai corridor are progressing well. Right now, tenders have been floated.”
 
 Once the MoU is signed, stakeholders of the project including AP Industries Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC),   (GVMC) and AP Transco will swing into action and start their respective works. including internal infrastructure in industrial clusters, urban water supply, roads, road safety measures, climate change resilience, power transmission and distribution. This apart, detailed project reports of the four industrial nodes including Vizag-Kakinada and   would be prepared by an agency appointed by the union government.
 
 A senior official from APIIC said the CM is likely to have a special discussion on the VCIC project with a team of officials at the summit soon after the MoU is signed.
 
 The APIIC officer added that the corridor is one of the key component of the East Coast Economic Corridor (ECIC) being developed between Kolkata and Tuticorin. Auto mobiles, electronic manufacturing, plastics, food processing, textiles and apparels, chemicals, pharmacy and pharmaceuticals are some of the key sectors to be given priority for development along VCIC with the objective of attracting minimum Rs 1 lakh crore investment in an year, he said.
 
 
