COIMBATORE: The city may soon get another zoo and a conservation centre on its lake bunds, if one goes by the interim report submitted by a private company,  , to corporation commissioner   on Friday.

 The report details the projects, designs, suggestions and challenges of the massive rejuvenation process that will be done on the eight lakes located inside the city as well as the various phases in which the project will be undertaken.
 
 The company representatives said the lake rejuvenation project will be carried out in three phases with the first phase focusing on three lakes - Selvachinthamani tank, Ukkadam Big Tank and Valankulam - which they noted were in the urban areas.
 
  The location makes it easy for connectivity for greenways, parks and public mobility services. The architects pointed out that one of the major challenges in these lakes was the sewage inlet points. “We will work to re-design the storm water drain structures in such a way that it naturally treats the sewage water. 
 
 We will use techniques such as floating islands, mass plantations,   and other design techniques such as meanders, pools and ripples.” 
 
 In the second phase, Narsampathy, Krishnampathy, Selvampathy and Kumarasamy lakes will be developed and their greenery, bio-diversity and ecology preserved. A non-motorised corridor of nearly 5km will be set up connecting these lakes and eco-parks will also be set up. 
 
 In the third phase,   will be developed and a bio-diversity conservation centre will be set up. Unlike the regular zoo where animals are caged, an area will be developed in such a way that birds, reptiles and insects will be viewed in their natural environment.
 
 The company representatives also interacted with members of civil society and the press on the corporation office premises. Some of the major concerns raised by the members were  , bio-diversity, local activities such as fishing and street vendors. The corporation commissioner said feedback from all stakeholders will be collected before the proposal is finalised. The public works department will also be consulted to develop areas that come under their control. 
 
