PUNE: The expansion of the Pune airport will entail a complete overhaul of the existing security measures, officers of the city police as well as the Central Industrial Security Force ( ) have said.

 Speaking to TOI, Manjit Singh, a deputy commandant rank CISF officer, who is also the official spokesperson, said: “With the expansion plan in the offing for Pune airport, the security cover which the CISF provides at the airport will have to be beefed up and re-structured. It is the job of the CISF to guard the airport against any kind of threat perception and the expansion could see many changes, including additional men, a new security and safety plan.”
 
 The CISF did not disclose the total number of men deployed at the airport and their formation due to security reasons. However, sources said that the men at the airport are on red alert most of the days, especially during events like festivals, Independence and the Republic Day. Apart from guarding the airport terminal, sources said the CISF men also keep a watch on city areas around the airport in coordination with the local police. The paramilitary personnel in plainclothes also keep a watch on the movement of people, vehicles and also establishments (buildings) near the airport.
 
 “The   ( ) and the CISF will soon hold a meeting and draw a detailed security plan in view of the airport expansion plans,” airport sources said.
 
 Sanjay Naik-Patil, the in-charge of the Vimantal Police Chowky, said that they too were keeping a close watch on the expansion project and were in talks with the CISF as well as the AAI.
 
 “We too have a proper security cover in areas around the airport. Now, with the expansion plans in place for the airport, the police too will have to re-think and implement a new strategy. We are waiting for the final plan regarding the expansion,” Naik told TOI.
 
 With concerns having been raised over the construction of a new eatery right next to the main arrival gate of the existing airport, the police said that they would wait and watch.
 
 “It is for the AAI to decide on these things. We are assessing the situation at the moment and might speak to the AAI in this regard ,” the officer pointed out.
 
 The Pune airport is part of the  's (IAF) strategically vital base for two squadrons of its frontline multi-role combat aircraft Sukhoi 30 Mk-I. The runway and the air traffic control (ATC) is managed by the Air Force Station and the civil enclave by AAI.
 
