BHOPAL: After “Children’s Bank” notes in Delhi, it’s   in  . A schoolteacher in Damoh was shocked to see an   spew out new Rs 500 notes without any number. A few seconds later, someone else also got the same notes and such chaos broke out that police had to shut the ATM for some time.

 Narayan Ahirwal says he punched a demand for Rs 1,000 at an SBI ATM near the Damoh government hospital and the machine spat two crisp 500-rupee notes. He was about to put the money in his wallet when he realised the face of both notes didn’t have any serial number. “How’s this possible?” he wondered, showing the notes to others in queue. By then, Sanjay Asati, who was standing behind him had already entered the ATM oblivious to the drama outside.
 
 Sanjay came out with the same puzzled look on his face. He too had withdrawn two Rs 500 notes and they did not have any number either. Within seconds, there was an uproar on the street. Someone called police, who promptly sealed the ATM.
 
 “I went to the nearest SBI branch, about a km away, and showed them the numberless notes but officials refused to exchange them,” Narayan told reporters. “The bank manager refused to speak on the issue, but branch employees told us to give it in writing that we got these notes from the ATM,” Asati said.
 
 Damoh SP Tilak Singh said, “I came to know about the incident but have not yet received any complaint. Neither the bank officials nor the people who got the notes have filed any FIR. In case, we receive a complaint, we will definitely investigate.” 
 
 Bank officials said such issues do come up, however bizarre. “We advise the victim to give a complaint so that we can investigate. But it is not possible to exchange the note immediately,” an official said.
 
 This is not the first time it happened in Damoh. Local sources say there have been at least four in the past week. Three days ago, two similar incidents took place at the Ghantaghar ATM. However, no police complaint was filed there, either, perhaps because people believe they won’t get back the money and don’t want to be dragged into a case where the onus is on them to prove how they got the notes.
 
 
 
 
 1 - Approach the bank whose ATM delivered the notes
 
 2 - If bank does not help, approach police
 
 3 - File an FIR to start investigations
 
