GURUGRAM: The   has decided to challenge the   of the Fees and   ( ), passed by its chairman   on September 5, that restricts them from charging fees more than what they have stated in Form VI, and asks the schools to refund the excess amount collected to the  . 

 Parents, too, are unhappy with the order and plan to approach the Haryana education secretary about it. They are unhappy that the order asks a school to submit just one year’s balance sheet, that too a provisional one, against their demand for a detailed balance sheet for two years.
 
 The issue came to light in April this year, when parents of Shiv Nadar School received an official communique on fee hike. “Tuition fee had been hiked by 15%, while the school also asked for Rs 25,200 as annual charges. There was a hike in transport charges too,” said Atul Gulati, a parent. 
 
 “FFRC had initially ordered auditing of school accounts for two years, but Shiv Nadar only produced a provisional balance sheet, that too for a year,” said Gulati.
 
 “After due deliberations by FFRC and perusal of the enquiry report (submitted) by the additional deputy commissioner, Gurugram and the audit report, it was also observed by FFRC that the basic aim for notifying Form VI well before start of an academic session is to apprise the concerned parents regarding the fee they would be paying the school to get their children admitted, and can make a well-informed decision in this regard,” reads the FFRC order. 
 
 “In (the) present case, FFRC held (that) though the school filed its Form VI within the prescribed time, it demanded fee which had not been mentioned in the form under various heads like meal fee, annual fee, etc,” the order stated. It further directs the school to refund the excess fee they have charged. 
 
 When contacted, FFRC chairman D Suresh said he was surprised parents were upset with him. “Under the current guidelines, I could have only authorised the audit for one financial year. Parents and schools are free to challenge my order,” he said. 
 
 
 
 
 A statement from Shiv Nadar school to TOI said the FFRC had not found any instance of the school charging excess fee. “The fee structure of the Shiv Nadar School was presented before the Fee & Fund Regulatory Committee (FFRC) and there is no determination by FFRC of excess fee charged by the school. In its order dated September 7, 2017, the FFRC also refers to the audit and inquiry report which was submitted by the members of the FFRC in July 2017. The report clearly mentions that no excess fee is being charged by the school. The school is availing its legal recourse and has appealed to the appellate authority against the shocking order passed by the divisional commissioner, which is contrary to the findings of its own inquiry report. The case stands subjudice.” TNN
 
 
