Bhopal: While the Madhya Pradesh   Shivraj Singh Chouhan has cautioned his cabinet colleagues to keep discussions at the cabinet meetings confidential, the recent leak of decisions taken in cabinet and Gramoday meetings has left many in the party and government shocked.

 While the cabinet ministers are turning the heat on their own colleagues over the damaging leak, some minister have come forward saying if they reveal debates that were meant to stay within the cabinet room, they are intentionally or unintentionally helping rivals to take advantage of the information.
 
 “All decisions meant for public should be released and this is our duty. But, some decisions, which cabinet often puts on hold after taking views of members like matters related to taxes, land use or decisions likely to be adjourned are decided as per the legal procedure. They cannot be publicised or disclosed, said minister of state for school and technical education Deepak Joshi. 
 
 “There are certain issues which will damage party’s future plans. All members in the party have a collective responsibility. So, if the chief minister has asked to keep discussions confidential, we must obey it,” Joshi said.
 
 It was last fortnight when chief minister Chouhan had exhorted his cabinet colleagues to ensure their presence during cabinet meetings, party's working committee and important discussions during department review meetings.
 
 Chouhan had also cautioned the ministers to be ready to face the music in case they do not comply with the instructions. After the incident, chief minister’s remarks and discussions were leaked from the meetings and Chouhan had to warn the ministers again. 
 
 Minister of state for backward and minority welfare Lalita Yadav joined Joshi in raising the issue. She said, when there was a spokesperson authorised to speak on cabinet decisions, such leaks should stop.“Personally, I am very clear on this matter. When CM has cautioned not to reveal any discussion, cabinet members should obey the same. 
 
 
