PUNE:   para commando Rajesh Kumar Pal’s life was torn asunder on April 24, 2016, when he lost his wife and his right hand in a   in Uttar Pradesh.

 Pal (34) thought he would have to continue with his life without the hand. But a team of doctors from the Artificial   (ALC) of the Indian Army gave him a new limb myoelectric prosthetics hand with electric elbow in the last week of February.
 
 The ALC, which is known for its unique prosthetic management of limb injuries for the armed forces personnel, has never carried out this type of prosthesis since its inception in 1944.
 
 A senior officer from the ALC, who was a part of the team, told TOI, “Since it was a high-level amputation, where the patient has lost the entire shoulder and scapula, conventional prostheses would have had little chance of success. So we had to use myoelectric technology.”
 
 Conventional prostheses use a harness to transfer movements in the upper body into arm and hand motions. “But a major problem with this system is that it is tiring for the patient. It requires a significant amount of energy to produce simple motions, which impedes a patient’s ability to use the prosthesis for a long period,” the officer explained.
 
 On the other hand, the officer said, the myoelectric technology uses sensitive electrodes to read activity in specific muscle groups and send signals to processing units that employ a specific function in electric motors in the prostheses.
 
 “For instance, muscles that are normally involved in grasping are wired to provide signal to clench the fist. It’s much more intuitive for the patient. Secondly, its training is shorter and easier,” the officer explained.
 
 ALC commandant brigadier S R Ghosh told TOI, “Our endeavour is to provide the best facilities to patients. This case was different for us but our team handled it successfully.”
 
 Pal, who is currently recuperating at the ALC, told TOI, “After the accident, I was not hopeful that I will ever see my right hand. But I am so glad that this expensive technology is being given to me for the first time. All thanks to the centre and doctors.”
 
 On November 4, 1999, Pal joined 1 Parachute regiment in Bengaluru and later became the under-water diver of the regiment.
 
 The commando has served as the diver for about 17 years in the special force and was a part of numerous counter insurgency and clandestine operations carried out by his unit.
 
 Pal was a part of operation Mike, which was led by martyred Major Mohit Sharam (Ashok Chakra posthumously) in the Hafruda forest of the Kupwara sector of Jammu & Kashmir in March 2009.
 
 “I was never injured during any operation. But this road accident has taken away many things from me. Now I want to focus on my children’s education. My son and daughter are studying in school at my native Gazipur in Uttar Pradesh,” he said.
 
 The commando further said that he would love to see his son in the elite Special Forces of the army in the future.
 
 The Artificial Limb Centre was established at Pune in 1944 under the command of Lt Col DS Vohra to provide artificial limb, appliances and deliver rehabilitative care to soldiers of the Army.
 
