NEW DELHI: Experts foresee a limited impact of Supreme Court’s ruling making appeals for votes on religious or caste lines a ground for   of the candidate in whose name and with whose consent they were issued. 

 A former chief election commissioner on Monday told TOI that the judgement may mean little given the “innate ability of Indian politicians to devise ways and means to circumvent any rule or law” and in this case to make their point without direct allusions. The ex-CEC pointed out that ruling religious or caste appeals to voters as “corrupt practice” under the   would essentially allow filing of an election petition in   challenging election of the candidate but the litigation is usually time consuming. 
 
 “But, in most cases, the time taken by the courts to decide such election petitions stretches five years or more, by which time the candidate’s term as MLA or MP would end anyway. So, in effect, there is little that the Supreme Court’s verdict can do to deter voting influenced by appeals based on the candidate’s or his opponent’s religion, caste, community or language,” he told TOI. 
 
 “Those who are hailing the SC verdict are possibly underestimating the intelligence of politicians and voters. Politicians will always find a way to mask such appeals by carefully rewording them so as to escape action for indulging in corrupt practice as defined under Section 123 of the RPA. Similarly, voters are smart enough to understand that the politician is seeking votes by citing religion and caste, even though his/her choice of words may be refined or subtle,” said the ex-CEC. 
 
 Another ex-official of the EC pointed out that religious and caste identity was ingrained in the very names of political parties in India. “One can easily identify All India Muslim League or All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen by the religious community whose interests they claim to represent. Would these parties be asked to drop these names and opt for more “secular” nomenclature after the SC verdict?” he wondered. 
 
 A similar point is made about outfits like Shiromani Akali Dal or Shiv Sena. “Even the post-election option of moving an election petition seeking disqualification of the candidate or declaration of his/her election as null and void for having won on the basis of communal appeals, would not help as the courts often take well beyond five years to adjudicate such petitions,” said another ex-chief of the poll panel.
 
