LONI: Located on the outskirts of North Delhi, the Loni assembly constituency is predominantly rural except for a few urban pockets. The township is governed by a municipal body of its own – the  .

 For most voters, lack of proper infrastructure and civic works are the main issues in the forthcoming polls. The civic issues include broken roads, overflowing drains and clogged sewer lines, among others. 
 
 The main urban pockets in Loni include DLF Ankur Vihar and DLF Ved Vihar. However, these areas seem to have been forgotten by the authorities in the midst of encroachment and illegal constructions that dot the township.
 
 “We have been grappling with overflowing drains and sewage pipelines ever since we shifted here. Politicians have been making tall promises during each elections. But we are yet to see proper civic work taking place in the township. Residents are thinking of boycotting the assembly elections completely this time. However, we are yet to take a final call in the matter,” said RP Pandey, president, RWA, DLF Ankur Vihar.
 
 The residents of several colonies of Loni, including Indrapuri, Balram Nagar and Nashbandi Colony are working class. But many of these colonies are yet to get basic necessities like piped drinking water supply. 
 
 “We procure water from a tubewell in a nearby school. For drinking purposes, we fall back on bottled water which is sold at Rs 15-20 per five litres. The local councillor in the Nagar Palika Parishad has hardly ever visited our colony after being elected,” said Tauqeer (20), a resident of Raahat Enclave.
 
 Law and order continues to be a major issue in Loni with police officers blaming high crime rate on region’s proximity to Delhi. When it comes to infrastructure development, officials of various civic agencies pass the back on others.
 
 In the 2012 assembly elections, RLD fielded Madan Gopal alias Madan Bhaiya, a local strongman known to have a criminal past. He was named as an accused in a murder case in 2001 in which a man was abducted from Gokulpuri in Delhi and killed in Ghaziabad. In a keenly contested poll battle between RLD and BSP, Madan Bhaiya lost the elections to Zakir Ali of BSP.
 
 However, the tables turned in favour of BJP in the Loni assembly segment in the 2014 general elections. Despite the large Muslim population in Loni, Gen VK Singh (retd) of BJP garnered 1.12 lakh votes from this segment. His closest rival,   of the Congress, could get only 41,000 votes.
 
 This year, the RLD has again fielded Madan Bhaiya. The BJP has fielded Nand Kishor Gujjar who also is suspected to have a criminal past. Gujjar runs a social organization called Azgar Sena that had been involved in vandalizing the graves of British soldiers on the banks of Hindon river in 2007. The SP candidate is Rashid Malik while the BSP candidate is its sitting MLA Zakir Ali.
 
 
