KOLKATA: It was an experience like no other for Ramesh Alley and 25 others, who came down to Kolkata to appear at the City Sessions Court on Monday in the murder case of All India Gorkha League (AIGL) leader  . The huge presence of police on the court premises and around Gorkha Bhavan, where some of them had checked in, made them feel they were under surveillance, following the   stir in the Hills.

 Police entered Gorkha Bhavan and checked the register to confirm their identity, and police in plain clothes followed them wherever they went.“I had an uncanny feeling. People from the Hills come to Gorkha Bhavan for many reasons and, at times, for treatment. I have never seen policemen entering Gorkha Bhavan before. I feel they did all these for our protection, if not to intimidate us,” said exArmyman and GJM leader Ramesh Alley.
 
 Alley recounted the pains he and his colleagues had to take to reach Kolkata at a day’s notice. “We are innocent and have no intention to defy CBI. But the fact is, we haven’t got the   notice as yet. You are aware of the fact that there is no internet in the Hills and our cellphones aren’t working. I came to know about the CBI notice from my lawyer only on Sunday. I wasted no time in coming down to Kolkata. The roads in Darjeeling are in a bad shape due to incessant rain. There are chances of landslides and mudslides. Yet, I had to honour the notice the agency has served me. I served the   and will do nothing against the nation,” the GJM leader and former GTA member said.
 
 All 26 accused were in a fix when the chief metropolitan magistrate of the court fixed Tuesday as the next date of hearing the Tamang case. Some of them started making calls to their relatives and friends for a day’s stay in Kolkata. Most of them were not in a mood to stay away from court hearing.
 
 There were others, like Keshav Pokhrel and Amal Lama who have been staying outside Darjeeling since 2014. They had been earlier arrested in the case and received conditional bail from Calcutta high court.
 
 Following the order, they have been barred from entering Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri and Sikkim. Since then, they had been staying at   in Alipurduar. There were at least 18 accused persons who had come down from Jaigaon to appear in court.
 
 Chhetri, who also appeared in court on Monday, said he came because he was summoned by CBI. “I was served a notice at my residence and I appeared today. At court, we were told there will be a hearing again on Tuesday. So, I stayed back,” he said. Asked about Bimal Gurung, he said: “I do not know whether he will appear in court or not. But I see many of the accused have come today.”
 
