Amravati: He spent a major part of his teaching career in the service of Nagpur University Teachers Association (NUTA). Prof   considers himself a true heir to prof BT Deshmukh, who ruled Amravati division graduates constituency for five terms. As NUTA decided not to contest the election this time, he is now in fray as a candidate of MLA Bachchu Kadu-led Prahar. He takes to TOI as the election campaign gathers momentum.

 Excerpts from an interview...
 
 Why did you quit NUTA when you were in its executive body?
 
  I did not quit NUTA. I only quit the executive’s post. I still am its life member and attend its AGMs. When Deshmukh lost in 2010 election, the picture at Amravati University (AU) senate election was different. But I ensured NUTA’s win. I made a sacrifice. I did not contest and also asked my wife to withdraw. After the fall of our leader, I ensured NUTA’s win in senate polls. Then arose some differences of opinion following which I quit the executive post.
 
 How do you justify your candidature?
 
  During the 2010 election, Kadu held several meetings for Deskhmukh in Akola, Washim and Buldana. However, despite big presence at the meetings, it did not convert into votes. So, in 2011, a thought came to mind to fight for equitable distribution of jobs for Vidarbha’s youth. I discussed it with Kadu for the word ‘backlog’ had vanished with Deshmukh’s defeat. So when he said no to contest, I expressed my desire to carry forward his unfinished work of backlog removal and fight for teachers’ problems.
 
 What do you have to say about Ranjit Patil, your main rival?
 
  He has done nothing for the teachers in his tenure. He did not pay teachers their 72-day salary when they were on strike. He did not take any policy decision for teachers even after becoming a minister. His employment rallies were efforts to mislead the youth. Despite being a representative of graduates, he did not attend senate meetings of AU and suffered the ignominy of being stripped off his membership. He published a ‘progress book’ for voters but distributed it among only VIP voters. That the chief minister had to come for filing his papers is in itself his and BJP’s defeat. The CM wants Patil by hook or crook.
 
 How do you rate your chances and what will be your agenda if you win?
 
  I am in a sound position and drawing excellent response. I will definitely win as voters look at me as ‘Aapla Manus.’ I will fight to ensure 23% share in jobs for youths of Vidarbha and strive for clearing the region’s backlog and pension scheme for teachers.
 
 
