KOLKATA: The first sound you hear as you head towards   are those of measured thumping. It is followed by co-ordinated beats of drums. As the music reaches its crescendo, a giant lion mask springs to life and starts prancing to the beats. Welcome to India’s oldest  , which greeted the Chinese   on Saturday with the same gusto and spirit as it has been doing for several decades now. Only, there are not enough members of the community left to conduct the lion dance for the 20 odd clubs. Youths from other communities perform this ritual for several clubs. 

 Mohammed Imran, who was born and brought up in China Town, learnt lion dance — an integral part of New Year celebrations — from one of his Chinese friends who has not migrated to Canada. “Uncles and aunties request me to perform lion dance for their clubs because there are no Chinese youths in their clubs. They have all migrated,” said Imran.
 
 “We thrived here,” said Jen Lee, 72, sitting in a tea shop close to  . “Our children played in these lanes and attended local schools. We had Chinese schools and our own newspapers. But now, it’s mostly memories. In a few years, we’ll all be gone or dead.”
 
 For a handful of those who still call Kolkata their home, the dwindling numbers did not matter though. They made sure there was no dearth of celebration. The congested and dilapidated neighbourhood of Chatawala Gali, Lu Hsien Sarani and Tiretti Market, where residences, small Chinese eateries and manufacturing units hang cheek by jowl, metamorphosed into an island of revelry. The entire neighbourhood was decorated in red and gold. Members of the community dressed in their gladrags and festive fineries strutted to local churches early in the morning. They lit incense sticks and prayed at temples to wish for an auspicious start to the New Year.
 
 “The day starts with offering prayers after which friends and family visit each other. The lion dance is the highlight of the day,” said  , a community veteran. Other New Year traditions include eating of dumplings and lighting of fireworks.
 
