CHENNAI: An inventory of trees before and after cyclone   has been mapped using the geographic information system (GIS) to understand the extent of damage and develop a scientific strategy for urban tree management.

 As a pilot study, Nizhal, an NGO, and Teems India, a private company, along with neighbourhood volunteers have carried out the survey in areas in ward 176 which comprises Adyar and Besant Nagar. Of more than 300 trees that were damaged in the ward, they found that 77% exotic species and 22% indigenous trees were uprooted during the storm.
 
 Back in 2014 Nizhal began compiling a database of trees in ward 176, collaborating with residential communities, to motivate the public to know and care for trees in their localities. Following the cyclone in December, another GIS survey was done to compare the two and identify uprooted trees and those partially fallen and bent by the wind. Each tree has been geo-tagged with information on its health condition, including abuse by individuals or commercial establishments, species, size, botanical name, Tamil name and its latitude and longitude. Once it is made public on websites, people can access this information.
 
 “This could become a model for an urban green plan and the corporation must scale this up and conduct a scientific census in all wards,” says Shobha Menon, founder trustee, Nizhal. “Now that we have mapped these trees and have data on where they fell, there is accountability. It will prevent people from illegally cutting trees and we can formulate a master planting and management plan.”
 
 But this effort should be a collaborative public-private partnership, say experts, so that people take ownership of trees in their neighbourhoods. “We shouldn’t go for mass planting in a hurry, which will make the trees vulnerable again to natural calamities,” says marine biologist and a trustee of the organisation, T D Babu. “We can plan and plant the right species in the right place and we can now check geo-spatial availability.” The organisation has also mapped species that are becoming uncommon and calling them ‘landmark trees’. “Localities such as Karpagam Garden should be proud that they house such trees,” says Babu. 
 
  has been holding consultation meetings with botanical and environment experts to recover the city’s green cover. The survey has been presented to the civic body, which is considering including GIS mapping of trees in its smart city project. “We have to discuss this at the smart city board meeting,” said deputy commissioner for works at Ripon buildings, K S Kandasamy. 
 
 Nizhal has started identifying locations to plant trees and the planting drive will begin in March. Keeping with the theme of the research, a meeting to present this census was held on Tuesday at the Kotturpuram Tree Park where 70 wind fallen trees were re-planted.
 
 
