BATHINDA: Four days after SAD got a severe drubbing in the  , former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal went on a thanksgiving visit and met voters of his assembly constituency Lambi. Badal said that though the party was down, it was not out and their leaders would keep on working hard by remaining in touch with people. Badal got elected from Lambi for the fifth consecutive term by defeating Capt  .

 Badal visited 12 villages and thanked the people for the overwhelming response to his candidature. At every village, he asked the residents to stay united and not feel helpless. “Badal family will continue to stand by you,” Badal told voters.
 
 Even though SAD has lost power to the Congress, for the people of   is their chief minister. In the four villages he visited on Wednesday, people addressed him as “CM sahib”. At two villages, some people even came forward with the complaints that they had not received the cheques of Rs 15,000 each for the construction of toilets.
 
 “Badal had remained the CM for 15 of the last 20 years. For the people of Lambi, he is still like CM and it will take time for people to accept that he is no more a chief minister now,” said Lambi resident Mukhtiar Singh. Another Lambi resident Gurmukh Singh said Badal had remained the CM for such a long time that people saw him as CM only and it would take some time for them to realise the reality. 
 
 “Lambi used to get preferential treatment in getting grants and leaders of opposite parties used to feel jealous,” said another Lambi resident Mohinder Singh.
 
 Badal said, “The Congress has cheated Punjabis politically, socially and religiously and somehow due to the wrong propaganda succeeded in winning the assembly elections. Now, it will accuse us of leaving the state treasury empty. We used to collect money from taxes and it used to be spent on development. The Congress too will have to do that and not blame us.”
 
 He averred that the Akali Dal would continue with their struggle for saving Punjab waters. 
 
