NASHIK: The state government officially released the city's Development Control and Promotion Regulation ( ) leaving the city-based   disappointed as it doesn’t include solutions about the  .

 An official from the state government’s urban development department said, “The DCPR of the city has been released officially. Its copy has also been sent to the   ( ).”
 
 As per norms, cupboard with size up to 8x2 sqft is allowed. But most of the developers have violated the norms by extending the cupboard space to 12x2 sqft or even up to the room length. 
 
 The NMC administration has stopped giving the Building Completion Certificates (BCC) to such properties over violation of cupboard spaces and FSI. There are over 3,000 properties whose BCCs have been stopped by the government.
 
 The builders wanted to regularise additional FSI in cupboard space by paying a penalty, but NMC didn’t agree to it. Meanwhile, it was expected that the DCPR will include solution to the cupboard issue, but it doesn’t have any mention about it.
 
 Nilesh Chavan, former chairman of   (IIA), Nashik Centre, said, “The DCPR does not include solutions about the cupboard issue. The issue is affecting over 3,000 properties across the city. Moreover, the DCPR of the city seems to have been made only for big builders or big plots.”
 
 Moreover, enclosure of balconies is not allowed, which has also disappointed the builders. The cluster development regulation for core (gaothan) has been kept in abeyance. Earlier, 2 FSI (floor space index) was allowed on roads below 9 metre in gaothan area, but the FSI limit has been reduced to 1.5 in the DCPR.
 
 The basic FSI has been increased from 1 to 1.10 FSI and Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) uploading is not allowed on plots on roads with width below 9-metre. But TDR uploading limit has been increased from 0.40 TDR to maximum up to 1.40 TDR as per width of the road. Moreover, the slum rehabilitation regulation has also been kept in abeyance.
 
 The DCPR, prepared by the state government, shall apply to building activities and development work on lands within the limits of the NMC.
 
