LEHRAGAGA: Punjab finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa’s speech makes it evident that his key poll plank is development as he challenges Congress heavyweight and sitting legislator Rajinder Kaur Bhattal in her bastion, Lehra constituency, in Sangrur district on a lazy, winter afternoon in Mulak village.

 The spectacled, serious-looking finance minister of the ruling SAD-BJP alliance in Punjab points out “Rajinder Kaur ji’s” long time spent in the party, and compares it to development in the constituency and its biggest town, Lehra Gaga. “I am surprised that a person who has represented you for 25 years, did not care to give you her time or make efforts to provide proper infrastructure to you,” he says. 
 
 Though Dhindsa had been representing the neighbouring Sunam seat, SAD gave him the charge of the constituency for cultivating it as his own two years ago. “When my party gave me a responsibility to focus here, I organized ‘sangat darshans’ to know your grievances and resolve them. You have to elect someone who stands by you,” he says.
 
 Dhidnsa, aged 43, is quick to train his guns on Bhattal’s party colleague   chief Captain Amarinder Singh. “I have heard Amarinder got annoyed with the party and is sitting at home because too many CM faces have emerged in his party. Amarinder is worried that Navjot Sidhu’s posters have come up projecting him as the leader; Manpreet Badal too is a contender. Then there is  . The party has placated him, but he has still not been announced the CM candidate,” he says.
 
 Dhindsa follows it up with an attack on Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). “AAP has no basis because Kejriwal changes his colours frequently. He says the state’s river waters will be protected, but then says something else in Delhi. They (AAP leaders) only want to grab power. He first ditched his mentor   and the latter had to publically say he has nothing to do with AAP. Then Yogendra Yadav and Parshant Bhushan were expelled for indiscipline. In Punjab, Sucha Singh Chhotepur was thrown out because Kejriwal doesn’t trust anyone,” he says. 
 
 Talking to TOI on the sidelines of his public meetings, Dhindsa says Lehra Gaga — the town which was earlier called Lehra, but then added Gaga as a suffix to differntiate it from other towns of the same name in the state — is slightly underdeveloped than Sunam, but he has worked on it in the past two years. “A lot of work has been done. A stadium is coming up, schools have been upgraded, and college are being set up. The main poll plank for me and the party is definitely development. This election, the electorate is silent. I can say that the fight (among my opponents) in the area is for the second place,” he says. 
 
 At the next stop too, Dhindsa lists his achievements: “For young voters, stadia and gymnasiums are being built everywhere there is a demand. “Congress promises are mere poll stunts. SAD has always fought battles for the rights of Punjab, be it the issue of river waters or state capital.”
 
 A former president of the local panchayat describes Dhindsa as a mild-mannered leader. For him, Lehra Gaga would be the next Chandigarh of Punjab. “Dhindsa has promised that if SAD is voted to power again, the area will be turned into Chandigarh with latest facilities,” he says.
 
