PUNE: Over a year after   (PCB) decided to re-lay all roads with bitumen mixed plastic waste, the monsoon-ravaged streets remain in a poor condition.

 People recall roads in Pune Cantonment as being among the best in the country, but commuting on these very roads has become a hassle due to a steady decline in the maintenance, and the age of the roads. Over the last few years, only small repairs after civic works or minor bitumen patchwork has been taken up.
 
  Of the 75km road in the Cantonment area, 48km is under PCB. The rest, including some vital thoroughfares like Kondhwa Road, Solapur Road, and Prince of  , are controlled by Public Works Department and Military Engineering Services.
 
 In 2015, after being swamped by complaints, the board worked out a plan to overhaul the roads, planning it with the other agencies. Rather than adopting Pune Municipal Corporation’s concreting drive, it planned to adopt the less expensive PMB-40 (polymer modified bitumen-40) option.
 
 The polymer, derived mainly from disposed plastic, is mixed with standard bitumen and applied to the exposed layer of road. Such roads have proved to be weather-resistant, superior in quality and durability. 
 
 However, despite improvements in the PCB’s financial situation and tenders being floated, officials admit there has been no movement regarding the actual implementation of the plan. Meanwhile, vital roads, especially Solapur Road, has been barely attended to for the past few months, despite extensive damage.
 
 “We have written to the board many times to fix the main roads but nothing has been done to fix the roads for over a year now,” autorickshaw driver Imran Nasir, a resident of Solapur Bazar area, said.
 
 A senior engineering department official of the board said not much is being done about polymerisation of roads. “ PMC is laying water pipes through many roads. Any step to set the roads right will have to happen after this work is over,” he added.
 
 But polymerisation is doubtful, officials admitted. “We will restore these roads with PMC. As such, we cannot say whether we will use polymerised bitumen. We had floated the tenders a few months ago, but we need to check whether   is possible,” the official added.
 
