ALLAHABAD: Savitri (50), along with her four family members, on Sunday started journey for Kashi   to offer jalabhishek to lord Shiva. This was the first when Savitri decided to accompany her family members for kanwar yarta at the ongoing holy month of Shravan.

 “It's only devotion and dedication to lord Shiva that I took decision to be a part of kanwar yatra with my family members,” said Savitri, adding “there seems to be no fatigue or any doubt in my mind and I just want to offer prayers my lord.” 
 
 Not only Savitri or Lalita, other women kanvariyas, including unmarried girls including Sushma, Parvati, Sudha and others, arrived at  , Daraganj to collect holy water before starting their journey for Shiva dham. 
 
 On Sunday, these   either in group or with family members started arriving at Dashashwamedh ghat to collect water. 
 
 “The strength of women kanwariyas would increase from Monday or Tuesday,” said Uma Shukla, the organiser and caretaker of kanwariyas at Daraganj ghat. “The strength of kanwariyas - both males and females - would increase manifold from the second somvar of the shravan month,” she added. 
 
 Uma also coordinates with police officials to enhance proper security system in place at the ghat and adjoining areas as well as crowd management. 
 
 Uma has been taking care of kanwariyas at Daraganj ghat since 2001 after the death of her husband and her family members assist her in the novel job. 
 
 “It's my moral responsibility to take care of each and every kanwariya when he or she arrives at ghat to collect water,” she claimed, adding, “I feel satisfaction in serving the mankind.”
 
 She, however, claimed “strength of women kanwariyas is increasing every passing year and majority of them hail from rural areas and villages. Women kanwariyas also arrive from Banda, Kaudhambi, Chitrakoot, Pratapgarh and adjoining areas to take holy water".
 
 Till five years back, there was no trend of women kanwariyas joining the kanwar yatra, but with the changing times, their strength is increasing.
 
 In the latest trend, women step out with decorated kanwars on their shoulders.
 
 Pointedly, the month of Shravan holds significance for devotees who travel long distances barefoot to offer jalabhisek to the deity. 
 
