VISAKHAPATNAM: With swine flu ( )   increasing in the district since the last two months, health experts are worried about mutation in the virus strain and the virus’ adaptability to seasonal changes that is causing the flu even in peak summer unlike earlier years when swine flu used to strike mainly post monsoon and in  .

 With 12 positive cases in March and 24 in April in Vizag district this year, health officials state that H1N1 cases is likely to further escalate in May (already seven positive cases reported this month) and caution public to take personal precautions.
 
 Dr L Kalyanprasad, nodal officer for swine flu in the district said, “The virus is already there in the community and since January till the first week of May, we have registered 47 H1N1 positive cases, 95% of which are in the urban GVMC area. Of these 47 cases, two each were reported in January and February, while the rest of them were reported since March. Three deaths have also occurred including one from Pendurthi and two from Maddilapalem area in March-April. It’s possible that the virus has undergone some mutation and therefore it’s very much prevalent in peak summer months, rather becoming more virulent this season.”
 
 Also, H1N1 cases are observed in the states like Telangana,   and Karnataka. In view of increased mobility of public from these states there is a likelihood of spread of the disease, say health officials.
 
 General physician Dr   averred, “Although vaccination is recommended for high risk group including pregnant mothers and children, the mutation of the H1N1 virus is usually very rapid, so much so that vaccine made in 2016 may not be effective in 2017. Also, the swine flu virus has developed adaptability for seasons. Instead of weakening in summer months, it has become even more virulent in April-May. Once the air-borne virus gets mutated environmentally, infection becomes even more virulent.”
 
 Given the alarming situation, health officials ask public to exercise caution in crowded places and to strictly follow personal hygiene. “We have 12 screening centres including one in Government Chest Hospital and another in KGH. We are distributing pamphlets and IEC (information, education and communication) material to raise awareness among public. But most importantly, people themselves should follow personal hygiene such as frequently washing hands with soap, wearing masks especially when they go to some crowded place such as the beach or cinema-theatres and shopping malls. They should also visit a doctor or hospital and get tested if fever doesn’t subside in 48 hours, added Dr Kalyanprasad.
 
 
