What do you do when you are wildly passionate about two things and want to pursue them both with equal gusto? You figure a way to marry them to give you the satisfaction of having done justice to both. That’s exactly what   exponent   has done with his current dance-drama, for which he has used his love for   and his works and adapted the tale of  . Called  , this Kathakali work features Prabal, who specializes in performing Streevesham (female form), in the title role. 
“My first tryst with the Bard’s work was when I adapted Macbeth as a Kathakali dance-drama, in which I took on the role of Lady Macbeth in 2014. This recital took me across the country and the globe, but the creative mind was not satisfied and I wanted to look at the tale of Cleopatra. Her story intrigued me, even more because I had not studied it — it is not taught at graduate or post-graduate studies as her character portrayal is more like that of a  , who walks around naked and has multiple affairs. So, my first task was clear cut — I had to study the subject, after which I approached Shankar Rajaraman, who also wrote the script of Macbeth for me, to write it for me in Sanskrit. I feel that Cleopatra is two steps ahead of what we were able to achieve with Macbeth,” says Prabal.
 Cleopatra was launched in 2016 as part of Prabal’s celebration of 15 years as a Kathakali artiste. As part of his research for the production, the exponent spent a considerable amount of time with his guru, Sadanam Balakrishnan, to carefully select the ragas that suit the mood of the character and the situation. “For instance, Raag Sankarabharanam and Purvi Kalyani are used to show Cleopatra’s love for Anthony, Raag Vekata to show Cleopatra’s anger when she hears from a messenger that Anthony has married Octavia, and Raag Ahari when she declares war against Caesar and tells Anthony that she would be with him during the war,” explains Prabal, who has used a   kireetam that closely resembles the snake-hood styled headgear of a Pharaoh.
 
