An inspector’s 22-year-old son, suspected of goring his own mother to death in their home before friskily leaving a message in her blood: ‘Tired of her, Catch me and hang me’, has chilled not just his family but the entire police force, especially since the message concluded coolly with a smile emoticon in blood, lending the murder a psychopathic touch.
 
  After the murder in the small hours of Wednesday, the suspect,  , son of police inspector   attached to the Khar police station, skipped town with Rs 2 lakh cash belonging to the family.
  
  Case investigators said that Ganore, who once headed the   and was part of key investigations like the Sheena Bora murder case, will also be questioned since his version of the events appears to be flaky.
  
  According to Ganore, he had last spoken to his wife, Deepali, around 5 pm on Tuesday, after which his calls to her and his son did not go through, said a police officer from Santacruz police station. He said he clocked his hours on duty and left to have dinner with a relative, after which he made his way home — at AG Park, Prabhat Colony, Santacruz West.
  
  But it has been learnt that Ganore had excused himself from duty citing a stomach ache around 2 pm that day.
  
  This is the version of events narrated by Ganore to the police: When he reached his third-floor apartment, he found it locked. Neither his son nor his wife answered his calls, so he thought they might have gone for a movie. He sat in the corridor for three hours waiting for them. Around 2 am, he got worried and checked the door again. He was fiddling with the lock when he found the keys near the shoe rack outside. When he got in, he found Deepali in their bedroom, bloodied and stabbed. On the floor beside her was scrawled the message: ‘Tired of her. Catch me & Hang me J’.
  
  It was around 3 am when the Mumbai police control number 100 received Ganore’s emergency call. They despatched a team from the Vakola police station.
  
  “When we reached the spot we found Ganore’s wife with the message in blood,” said senior inspector Mahadeo Waval of the Vakola police team.
  
  Deepali was rushed to Cooper Hospital where she was declared dead.
  
  Siddhant has since been absconding. Ganore told the police he had recently withdrawn Rs 2 lakh to keep at home which is also missing. Sleuths suspect the money could have led to a dispute with Siddhant.
  
  The police said Deepali was stabbed around eight to nine times, first in the neck and then in the stomach with a kitchen knife. “He did not slash her throat but stabbed her repeatedly in the neck. The injuries are so brutal it looks like she must have died on the spot,” said the police officer.
  
  After scribbling the message, it appears that Siddhant took a bath, changed intro fresh clothes and fled with the money, the officer said.
  
  It is proving tough to trace Siddhant as he acted shrewdly, having kept his cellphone in the almirah locker along with his mother’s phone, cops said. “We suspect he is not carrying his mobile to evade the cops,” said the officer. The cops are examining   footage from the building to check if Siddhant had an accomplice.
  
  The local police and Crime Branch teams have mounted a hunt for Siddhant.
  
  Siddhant initially took admission in an engineering college but withdrew it as he was unable to keep up academically, it has been learnt. Ganore then secured admission for him in the Bachelor of Science course at   but he flunked several times, police officials said.
  
  His poor scholastic record was a source of constant dispute between him and his mother, who had a Master’s in Law. Ganore had arranged for Deepali to go to London after their marriage so she could pursue higher studies.
  
  Friends and family of the Ganores are incredulous that such a thing could have happened since Ganore used to “take very good care of the boy”. For the two years that his wife was studying in London, he looked after Siddhant. “He loved his family a lot, whatever his son demanded he tried to provide,” said a close friend of Ganore’s who did not wish to be named.
  
  The cops could not record Ganore’s statement as he was inconsolable, and then then he left for his hometown Igatpuri in Nashik for Deepali’s last rites, said the officer.
  
