THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The bickering in the   has come to a full circle with the majority of its members expressing their dissent over the observations made by the former commission chairman.

 The former chairman, T M Manoharan, who demitted the office early this May, had written a dissent note against the decision taken by the members S Venugopal (finance) and K Vikaraman Nair (technical) in truing up petitions filed by the   (KSEBL) for the year 2010-11 and 2011-12.
 
 One of the main criticisms levelled by Manoharan against his colleagues was that both the members had been the board employees during the period for which the board has approached the commission with a truing up petition.
 
 It’s in the truing up of the accounts of the utility that the commission makes final decision on the accounts, mainly the revenue gap, of the power utility.
 
 The statement of the former chairperson who himself had held the post of chairman of KSEB was to be construed as a “loaded statement”.
 
 “It is true that we were the directors of   during the proposed truing up period, and we have acted therein in our official capacity during the said period. The expenditure on employee costs and other controllable expenses were incurred by KSEB Ltd in its ordinary operational functions. The former chairperson, who too was the chairman of the entity for a period of six years and for another period of six months during 2011-12, should know better than anyone else that there could not be any personal bias or financial bias when expenditure like employee expenses incurred by a state utility like KSEB Ltd is approved by the commission in truing up proceedings,” the members stated.
 
 “We are at a loss to comprehend as to what material benefit accrues to a person when one approves “employee expenses” of a state utility, based on a reasoned decision and after a detailed analysis of the available information in the process of truing up,” the members stated.
 
 The offices held by the members earlier cannot be reason to find bias on the part of the members of the commission by any stretch of imagination.
 
 
 
