CHANDIGARH:   is all set to   for ragpickers to   from houses in the city. Currently, rag-pickers have been charging different rates in different areas. Once the new rate comes into effect, every house will have to pay the amount to rag-pickers. 

 Speaking during the special house meeting on Monday, municipal commissioner   said that giving garbage to rag-pickers would be mandatory for residents and even if they don't give garbage to rag-pickers, they will have to pay them.
 
 The exercise has been planned to ensure that people hand over the garbage to rag-pickers and not throw it anywhere else.
 
 "We will tie up with the rag-pickers and their association to make this exercise a success. We will provide assistance to rag-pickers too, but the collection will be completely a private affair," said the municipal commissioner.
 
 Besides, the MC would adopt the best model of segregation and collection of garbage, taking a cue from the working of cities of Mumbai, Pune and Vishakhapatnam. The civic body announced this while giving details of three study tours conducted in these cities.
 
 During the detailed discussion on Monday, the civic body said there are many practices which can be replicated in the city.
 
 "We are taking the garbage segregation work on a priority and going to start it from next month. Here residents will be given two bins for dry and wet garbage. We will focus on proper online services for the public and strengthening the grievances segment," said Purushartha.
 
 Mayor Asha Jaswal said, "We will ensure public participation to make the project of segregation successful."
 
 Since most of the civic bodies of Mumbai, Pune and Vishakhapatnam have good manpower and machinery, Chandigarh councillors took up these issues in the meeting. The MC also discussed the issue of primary education in detail and commissioner asked the councillors to look into the aspect to construct a new school for BPL families.
 
 Officers of the MC gave the detailed presentation of all three tours, giving details of   in those cities and how these can be replicated in the city.
 
