There are a total of 117 Assembly seats up for grabs. Of this, 83 seats are open to general candidates, while 34 are reserved for Scheduled Castes.

 
 
 The state has 1.9 crore registered eligible voters, of which 1.05 crore are men and 94 lakh are women.
 The 2012 assembly polls witnessed a 78 per cent voter turnout.
 
 
 
 There are 1,145 candidates contesting the elections this year. However, there are only 81 female candidates, just 7 per cent of the total. There is one candidate from the third gender.
 
 
 
 Party wise, the   has fielded the highest number of candidates.
 
 Congress: 116
 Aam Aadmi Party: 112
 SAD: 94
 BJP: 23
 BSP: 110
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SAD boss and Punjab chief minister   faces former Congress CM and   royal Capt   and AAP’s Jarnail Singh in his pocket borough. One of the tallest leaders of the Sikhs, the senior Badal is fighting to retain his hold on the community as well. “Capt” is no stranger to big ticket
 battles and had defeated the BJP’s Arun Jaitley from Amritsar in 2014   polls. He is also contesting from his Patiala home turf.
 
 
 
 Deputy CM,   is also the party president. If SAD returns, Badal junior can take the credit. He faces some tough contenders in the fight — AAP’s Bhagwant Mann and Congress’s Ravneet Singh Bittu (grandson of slain Chief minister Beant Singh).
 
 
 
 
 
 
  assertively sought to play a bigger role in state politics and quit the BJP to join the Congress ahead of the polls, saying he was a “born Congressman”. His wife was BJP’s sitting MLA on this seat before both joined the Congress. Sidhu was the party’s main crowdpuller in Majha.
 
 
 
 
 Bikram Singh Majithia runs SAD alongside brother-in-law Sukhbir Badal. The powerful but controversial figure has won from this seat in 2007 and 2012, notching the second highest margin of votes, almost 50,000 votes.
 
 
 
 
 While he's not in the fray himself,  's AAP is fighting the ‘outsider’ label and troubles in the state unit. Nevertheless, his party won four of the 13 Lok Sabha seats here in 2014 and Punjab is a good bet for AAP to shed its tag of being a Delhi party. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
