MUMBAI: While parties claim the moral high ground and talk about cleaning  , many of them have given tickets to the spouses of current or former corporators who are facing an inquiry by the ACB for alleged misconduct or irregularities. 

 The  , which talks about promoting transparency in the civic House, has given ticket to the wife of Gyanmurti Sharma against whom a trial is pending with the ACB. The   has roped in the wife of corporator Mohsin Haidar against whom the ACB has initiated an open inquiry. Similarly, the wife of NCP’s Ajit Raorane and the husband of   corporator Lalita Annamalai are going to try their luck in the forthcoming election. Under the information received from the ACB by activist Jeetendra Ghadge nine cases were registered since March 1, 2012 against various corporators. 
 
 A senior ACB official said it was true that political parties were using the kin of tainted corporators for political gains. “Morally, it may be wrong but the fact is that one cannot blame the new candidates for the misdeeds of their spouses as the affidavit is always about the new candidate, who is contesting and not their kin who are accused in different cases,” the official added.
 
 BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said giving tickets to spouses of tainted corporators does not mean that the party is shielding their crimes. “The law will take its own course. A ticket is given based on the work, support and other qualifications,” he added. “Two inquiries are pending since 2012, although the period for open inquiry is only six months according to the ACB rules,” said Ghadge.
 
 IPS officer turned lawyer Y P Singh said the law did not have a provision to bar the kin of tainted corporators from contesting an election. “If at all the parties decide on a policy, then the law needs to be changed or modified so that no one from the family of a corrupt politician gets a ticket in future,” he added. “The ACB has a poor record of conviction and the agency is under the home department’s control, hence the chances of securing a conviction are low. The fact that an ACB inquiry has been pending since 2012 proves that the agency is not serious when it comes to cases against politicians,” said another activist. 
 
 Activists said giving tickets to people associated with tainted politicians affects the party’s credibility. “Instead of giving importance to the winning prospects of one candidate, parties should think about keeping the faith of citizens at large,” Ghadge said. 
 
 Harshal Pradhan, an aide of Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, said, “Most cases are politically motivated.” 
 
 Congress spokesman Sachin Sawant said the party did not intend to shield the accused by giving their relatives a ticket and it would never come in the way of the law taking its course.
 
 
