NASHIK: The series of efforts to inculcate traffic discipline seems to have failed to improve the situation on city roads. 

 In just three months this year, 52 people have lost their lives in road accidents in the city from January 1 to March 31, 2017. The city reported a total of 224 road accidents during these three months, of which, 50 were fatal mishaps. 
 
 On Monday, as many as five road accidents, including a fatal mishap, were reported in different parts of the city. A   rider, Ashok Suryawanshi, died after being knocked down by a tempo in Shivaji Nagar area of Satpur on Sunday at around 9pm. Four other accidents were registered by the Indiranagar, Ambad, Satpur and Adgaon police stations. 
 
 Senior officials of the traffic police department said they were taking various measures to curb accidents on the city roads, but rash or negligent   was the main cause of accidents. 
 
 Jayant Bajbale, assistant commissioner of police, traffic department said, “All possible measures are being taken to curb road accidents. We have started analysing the causes of accidents, the spots prone to accidents, etc. Accordingly, we are communicating with the departments concerned to put necessary infrastructure to bring down rate of accidents but resolve traffic snarls.”
 
 The traffic police said they have appealed to motorists to wear helmets as a precautionary measures for a safe drive. The police have noted that most   victims are two-wheeler riders and various efforts are being taken towards their safety. Most of the deaths of two-wheeler riders are due to severe head injuries they sustain in accidents. 
 
 The police said their drive of No Horn Day on Mondays was also part of an exercise to bring down road accidents. They said that once motorists fell into the habit of no honking, they automatically go into the defensive driving mode that brings down number of accidents. 
 
 As part of the initiative, police commissioner Ravinder Kumar Singal and other senior officials visit various spots of the city to appeal to people to refrain from honking. People have demanded that police should put up machines to detect sound levels at important junctions in order to reduce the sound levels on Mondays and other days. 
 
 
