NAGPUR: While ‘padyatras’ may be more common among politicians seeking attention, Lalitha Dwivedula, an NRI from Canada, has embraced the concept for the benefit of rural development.

 Hailing from Visakhapatnam, Lalitha’s charitable organization, Sri Anagha Datta Society in Calgary, Canada, adopted the tiny village of   in Vizianagaram district, Andhra Pradesh, in 2015 to partake in Swachh Bharat Mission’s Smart Village Programme.
 
 Now, to help the village to develop basic amenities such as pure drinking water and sanitation, Lalitha has embarked on a padyatra solo to spread awareness about village development and collect funds. She started her journey on January 1 this year from Dhanushkodi, near Rameswaram, Tamil Nadu, and is planning to reach Naimisharanya in Uttar Pradesh via Ayodhya by Hanuman Jayanti, which falls on April 11 this year. 
 
 She reached Nagpur on Friday evening, and is heading towards Aamdi and Deolapar villages. Lalitha is followed by a support van belonging to her organization. 
 
 “After we adopted the village, we carried out surveys, and we found that pure drinking water and sanitation were major concerns plaguing growth in the village. We have already installed a borewell and are collecting money for RO plant and building toilets in the 350-odd houses in the village,” says Dwivedula. 
 
 She adds, as part of the mission, government had promised each house that built a toilet a reimbursement of Rs12,000, but they weren’t distributed to the four houses that built a toilet. “This discouraged others from taking up the cause of sanitation. So we have picked ten houses for building toilets. Once government sends its promised amount, we’ll build another ten, and continue like this.” 
 
 Lalitha also has a spiritual reason for choosing a padyatra over other means. “We are too busy doing our day-to-day stuff. In Ramayana, Rameshwaram and Ayodhya used to flourish with riches. I thought, let me travel the same path as Ram and see what I can learn during the journey,” she says. Talking about funds, she says, “Even if even two per cent of the population can donate a rupee per day for a month, imagine how many crores will be collected,” she adds. She has collected over $12000 till now.
 
 To help Lalitha in her cause, one can donate on the website: Gofundme.com/pragathipadyatra. She has been documenting her journey on her Facebook profile by the same name. Sri Anagha Datta Society in Canada, founded by Lalitha 2007, is a temple for lord Dattatreya, Anagha devi and Shirdi’s Sai Baba.
 
 
