BENGALURU: The year that passed saw a twofold rise in the number of senior citizen murders as compared to 2015. The alarming figure puts the spotlight on safety of the elderly in the pensioners’ paradise. However, no data is available on the number of senior citizens living alone, since an enumeration initiative started by police six years ago has fizzled out. With no help at hand, the elderly are living in perennial fear of being victimized. 

 In 2016, 13 murder cases were reported in Bengaluru city police limits, which saw senior citizens being targeted. They include the gruesome double murders of elderly couples Parvathraj (61) and Chandrakala (51) and Muniyappa (68) and Varalakshmi (60), who were brutally killed at their homes in Pulakeshinagar and Byatarayanapura respectively. In both the cases, the perpetrators were known to the victims and the motive was common — money.
 
 Six years ago, police initiated an enumeration exercise and released a safety booklet for the elderly. The plan was to ascertain the number of senior citizens living alone so that patrol teams could keep a watch on their homes to prevent incidents of burglary or assault. “It was an effort by police to connect with senior citizens and assure them that they are safe and can approach the department for any assistance. But the exercise was not completed and it is unknown how many of them are staying alone,” said a senior police officer on condition of anonymity. 
 
 Enumeration of senior citizens has been regularly carried out in cities like Chennai, Kochi and Coimbatore as these citizens are easy targets for criminals. The process could act as a deterrent, especially in a city like Bengaluru which is a haven for retirees, sources said.
 
 “We have had no cops checking on us till date. I feel that we have to protect ourselves even though it’s hard at this age. Today, many live away from their kith and kin because they want privacy. This makes them more vulnerable,” said former railway staffer  , 74, who has been living with his wife Sumathi in Nandi Layout, Ramakrishnanagar, since 2005.
 
 According to sources in the Elders Helpline, run by police, no information is available on the number of senior citizens staying alone. But the helpline (1090) often receives distress calls, which are addressed by Hoysala teams. “We are planning to revive the enumeration process following approval from the police commissioner,” said a representative of the helpline.
 
 HOMEALONE WOMEN EASY TARGET
 
 The year 2016 also saw five homealone women being killed. The murder of Kiran Singh (58), a Delhiite who settled in Chikkagubbi and worked with a local NGO, rattled Bengaluru. On May 17, 2016, Kiran’s body was found by her domestic help in the kitchen, and her limbs were tied. The case is unsolved. “Most of the murder cases were cracked and the suspects were known to the victims. Investigation is still on in some cases,” said S Ravi, additional commissioner (crime).
 
 Singh’s murder prompted the   for Women to approach home minister   to review Abhaya, an exclusive response force of Bengaluru police floated in January 2013 for the safety of women, especially elderly women residing alone.
 
