BHOPAL: Hailing from a non-descript village in a tribal-dominated  , life has never been a smooth sail for 24-year-old  . Growing up in a village   of Manawar tehsil, where one walks at least 5 km to catch a bus, it was literally a test at every step of the way. Coming from a modest background, the gritty rower made a mark by winning a silver medal in the   slalom championship in Thailand on Saturday. Her smashing performance has proved without doubt that even heavy odds cannot stop a focused performer from realising his or her dream.

  The winner of silver medal in mixed doubles C-2 category comes from a village where not many out of 399 people have seen a train, let alone travelling in it. The nearest town Manawar is approximately 35 km away.
 
 “It is amazing to see such players come out of MP. The best part is for such girls is they have a mission in life and are always striving hard to achieve it,” said sports minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia. Champa was selected during a talent search around seven years ago. “With launch of the water sports academy, we wanted to give opportunity to the youths who have potential, but live in remotes areas. Champa is one of the best examples of such effort,” the minister says. Champa was paired with Prince Parmar of Chhatarpur to win the medal. Talking about Champa, her coach Devendra Gupta said he was shocked to learn her father had never seen a train in his life. “Almost a year ago, Champa came to me and asked me for leave. When I asked she told me she had to go with her father as he had never travelled by train,” said Gupta. 
 
 He says: “Till then, her father did not go out of village and railways station is 10 km from her village. Her sheer dedication has made it possible for her to win the medal.” Gupta was part of the coaching team that selected Champa for the academy. Scindia said, “I have made it clear to officials that I want talent. It does not matter where players come from. Coaches followed it and results are there to see.” Another girl from Panna district won bronze medal on Sunday in U-23 age category in same event. 
 
