JALPAIGURI/ DARJEELING: With fissures within the   (GJM) deepening, efforts to bring normalcy in Darjeeling on Thursday morning turned futile.

 In Darjeeling, Dinesh Gurung, former municipality commissioner from ward 25 and a founder member of GJM who's now against the strike, went around the town requesting shop owners and people from the business community to open their establishments.Though, few shops located in ward number 25 were opened, the traders closed them down soon after he left. Even those selling food on the roadside and in alleys, packed their commodities and left fearing trouble. “I requested the shopowners to open their shops. On my request, they opened their shops too,“ he said.
 
 In the afternoon, GJM president Bimal Gurung issued an audio message asking people to support the strike and warned those trying to open shops to do so at their own risk. “Few opportunist leaders took the help of police and coerced government employees to attend work today .But I appeal to people, including the business community , schools and tea gardens, to support the agitation for Gorkhaland. Those trying to lift the strike will have to do so at their own risk,“ he said.
 
 Government staff and those of the   (GTA) reported for work on Thursday . Teachers of government schools also re ported for duty but parents decided not to send their wards to schools. Two state-owned buses ferried passengers from Siliguri to Darjeeling and back with police escorts. Tea gardens, though, remained closed.
 
 Asking the party's women, youth and student wings to take to the streets, Gurung said for the greater cause, people should be willing to forgo the Dasai and Tihar festivals. “I know the strike is causing inconvenience to the people. Students may even lose a year. I am equally sad and seek their pardon. Festivals will come and go, but this struggle is for our `jati' (community) and `mato' (land),“ Gurung said.
 
 Rebel leader Binay Tamang attacked Gurung again. “It won't do for long by sending au dio clips from riversides and forests, hampering the peace process. We won't tolerate intimidations. People in the Hills want normalcy to be restored. If Bimal Gurung wants to lead the public, he should first come out in public,“ he said in Jalpaiguri.
 
 Tamang was in Jalpaiguri to meet the 19 arrested Gorkhaland supporters, including four women, who are now in Jalpaiguri Central Correctional Home. He had also been to Siliguri correctional home to meet 100 such activists. According to Tamang, Thursday's office attendance in Darjeeling was over 50%. “This shows that people want normalcy back. Hopefully, things will become normal in another 3-4 days,“ he said.
 
 Gurung requested the Centre to intervene. “Bengal chief minister   does not have the intention to facilitate tripartite talks because she wants the GTA to function with the help of traitors. I fear that situation in the Hills can take a turn for worse, if the Centre fails to initiate talks,“ he said. “In 10-15 days something good will happen. Party leaders are in talks with the central government. I request people to bear the inconvenience for now,“ he added.
 
