PUNE: It has been over three months since the deadline, but the   is yet to update its  , including notification, acquisition and the date of final possession.

 In June last year, Pune Divisional Commissioner S Chockalingam had issued an order to all the government bodies in Pune division to   from the revenue authorities within three month, which ended on September, 2016. The order was issued after a controversy broke out regarding the ownership of an MIDC plot, involving former revenue minister  .
 
 However, it has been over six months since the order, but the MIDC is still nowhere close to prepare the consolidated report, this was revealed in replies to a Right to Information (RTI) application filed by this reporter.
 
 In a string of replies from MIDC offices in the state, the authorities failed to give details about its notified and possessed plots. Also, it failed to answer if the same was updated in the record of rights by the main and the zonal offices.
 
 When asked about the RTI plea, a senior official from the MIDC stated that the corporation is yet to complete the process. 
 
 “I have told the field officers from all the divisions in Maharashtra to have information about the land acquired, details of the award passed by land acquisition officers, the compensation disbursement, land acquisition in the name of the MIDC and changes in the mutation entries. I have asked them to have all this information readied by January 15,” he said. 
 
 The RTI application was filed on October 5, 2016, seeking details of notified land, break-up in each district and the ownership as well as the compensation and the details in the record of rights. After filing the application, the replies on the sought data from every district started trickling in only towards the end of November last year. 
 
 One of the replies stated that instead of addressing the query to the MIDC main office, it should be addressed independently to all the branch offices at Thane, Panvel, Ratnagiri, Pune, Sangli, Kolhapur, Nashik, Dhule, Aurangabad, Latur, Nanded and Amravati. While Latur, Raigad, Osmanabad gave a break-up of land used by the MIDC, the remaining details were not provided in the replies to the RTI plea.
 
 Soon after receiving the reply, when TOI contacted a senior MIDC official, he said that the review process should end by December, the deadline which the MIDC has failed to keep up with. “The process is still going on,” the same official said when contacted again on Thursday.
 
 According to its officials, the MIDC has a land bank of approximately 78,000 hectare with about 73,000 hectare in various stages of usage in the state as of now. 
 
 After it was ordered to initiate a review process, the MIDC was to approach the   to get all its acquisition proceedings reflected in the revenue records. Following which its regional officers were to scrutinize the records to ensure that the acquisition process was completed, the compensation was disbursed and the entries were changed in the record of rights.
 
 The corporation had earmarked the plot for acquisition in 1968, with the state government having issued a final notification for the acquisition in 1971, but the procedure of compensating the owner from whom the minister had purchased the land was never completed and the mutation extracts continued to show his name as the title owner instead of the MIDC’s. In 2010, the corporation approached the revenue department about the acquisition of the plot.
 
