JODHPUR: More than 18 years later, the trial of the case registered by the forest department under the Wildlife (Protection) Act on 1972 against actor   and six other accused, including Saif Ali Khan, Sonali Bendre, Neelam and Tabbu, is nearing its end.

 A stay for seven years after the state went to the Rajashtan High Court, challenging the dropping of a few charges against the accused, had added to the delay.
 
 Monday was the third time that these actors came to the court together. They had appeared twice before while the trial court was framing charges against them.
 
 The case was registered against them by the forest department in October 1998 under the sections of Wildlife (Protection) Act and IPC. But two revision petitions, filed first by the defence and then the prosecution, with the plea to revise charges delayed the case for seven long years.
 
 “On February 19, 2006, the trial court had framed charges against Salman Khan under sections 9/51 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, some sections of IPC and Section 3/27 of the Arms Act. Others were framed under Section 9/52 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act and some sections of the IPC,” said  , counsel for one of the eyewitnesses, Poonamchand.
 
 The charges were framed by D S Rajpurohit, then a magistrate. He was since promoted and retired as chief judicial magistrate (CJM) last April.
 
 There were three women magistrates who tried the case-- Anupama Bjlani, Chandrakala Jain and Shivani Johri-Bhatnagar. They too were promoted, as sessions court judges.
 
 Dr N P Nepalia, the doctor who conducted the first post-mortem, which the prosecution had pointed out for technical faults for not having mentioned a gunshot wound, died before the charges were framed in 2006.
 
 The defence filed a revision petition in the sessions court against charges of unlawful assembly and its aggravated form as well as an offence under the Arms Act for possession of weapons—the last only against Salman Khan.
 
 The sessions court had allowed their revision plea which the state challenged before the Rajasthan High Court.
 
 Since then there was a stay on the trial. “The appeal finally led to Salman attracting Section 9 of the Wildlife Act and 149 of the IPC while the others attracted only an offence of abetment under the Wildlife Act,” said Bishnoi.
 
 Salman was charged with killing a near-threatened species and unlawful assembly, while Saif Ali Khan and others were charged only with abetment. In India, the hunting of blackbuck is prohibited under Schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act.
 
 The court framed the revised charges against all the accused on March 23, 2013, for which the accused appeared in the court for second time after the first framing of charges by the trial court in 2006.
 
 Salman’s counsel H M Saraswat said that the trial finally began in May 2013, following which the co-accused actors appeared in the court twice for identification by witnesses.
 
 Though Tabu and Sonali Bendre were presented by defence counsel Shrikant Shivade last year, eyewitness   failed to identify them both, despite claiming he can.
 
 The prosecution examined 28 witnesses, the last on January 13, after which magistrate   summoned all the accused for statements on Friday.
 
 Bishnoi said that it took six years from registering the case in the CJM court in November 2000 to framing the original charges in February 2006.
 
 “And then successive revision petitions, between 2006 and 2013, took seven years, delaying the trail of the case, which also took over three years,” he said.
 
 But now with only Salman seeking to examine a defence witness in the court, the case would soon reach the stage of verdict. The court has listed the matter on February 15.
 
