CHANDIGARH: Maruti Udyog Limited has agreed to vacate a portion of its premises that falls within the restricted zone of 300 meters of the  .

 The counsel appearing for Maruti conveyed the company’s consent on Thursday to a division bench comprising Justice S S Saron and Justice Avneesh Jhingan. The matter is pending with the HC seeking directions to remove encroachments around Air Force stations in Gurugram and Faridabad.
 
 During the hearing on Thursday Maruti’s counsel informed the HC that only a small portion of the company's production unit falls within the reduced restricted zone of 300 meters around the   and the company has no problem making adjustments. The counsel also told the court that the unit’s   remain unaffected.
 
 Confirming the development, additional advocate general Haryana Lokesh Sinhal stated that after Maruti agreed to vacate the land, the HC has permitted its counsel to withdraw its application in which it had sought permission to implead the company as party in the case.
 
 In its application, company had contended that it should also be heard by the court on the issue, as the property of Maruti falls within the 900 meters and the reduced limit of 300 meters of the restricted zone around the air force station.
 
 The case has been fixed for August 9 for further hearing, when the additional solicitor general of India, Satya Pal Jain, would apprise the HC about the issuance of notification regarding the powers of district magistrates delegated by the Centre for enforcement of the provisions of Works of Defence Act, 1903 to remove the encroachments in a radius of 100 meters from the area of ammunition depot of air force station, Faridabad and 300 metres from the Gurugram.
 
 The matter had reached before the Punjab and Haryana high court in 2010 through a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking removal of constructions from the 100-meter area around the Dabua Air Force station in Faridabad and construction within 900 meters around the Air Force station in Gurugram.
 
 Following court’s intervention, the central government in September 2015 had told the HC that the restricted zone around ammunition depot of Indian Air Force in Gurugram has been decided to be decreased from 900 to 300 meters . The Centre, however, had made it clear that the area of restricted zone around Air Force station Faridabad would remain 100 meters only.
 
