RAJKOT: Buoyed by the presence of their team owner  , urging to turn the tables back against a team they had lost twice to last season, the Kolkata Knight Riders got to the most rampaging start to the tournament so far with a 10-wicket win over Gujarat Lions at the   here on Friday.

 Chasing 184, the Knight Riders crossed 150 in the 13th over, 75 balls precisely, and were on their way to an easy victory without losing a single wicket. They won the game by 10 wickets with 31 balls to spare. Aussie   (93 off 41) was left seven short of what would have been a spectacular hundred while skipper   walked back smiling at an unbeaten 76.
 
 The batting heavy Gujarat Lions, hosting their first game at home, lost the toss and were put in to bat first by the KKR skipper Gautam Gambhir, who clearly thought the wicket wouldn't change at all for the impending 40 overs. Not only did the SCA wicket end up proving the Delhi left-hander right but in fact began to look a better belter as the game progressed from the first innings into the second.
 
 Lions began on an aggressive note, batting first. They lost opener Jason Roy relatively early before skipper   joined New Zealander   at one down to raise the pitch for the home team. Raina would later be joined by Tamil Nadu wicket-keeper-batsman Dinesh Karthik (47) and the duo laid the platform for the side to set up a formidable total. Raina, one of  's favourite son, got himself a valuable unbeaten 68. The hosts eventually posted a healthy 183-7, the highest at this venue, in trying to prove their intent going forward this season.
 
 Despite their best efforts, the total of 183 didn't really end up looking as threatening as it should have on a SCA wicket that has perennially been a low-scoring one. Instead, when the chase began, the Knights began to appear like they were batting on a different track altogether.
 
 Chris Lynn, Kolkata's Australian import, got a look-in thanks to their Bangladesh all-rounder Shakib al Hasan being away for the series against Sri Lanka. Lynn made sure that Hasan, and others warming the bench, will need to wait for their chance to get into this playing eleven in the coming matches.
 
 Along with skipper Gautam Gambhir, who got lucky and destructive in equal measure, Lynn came to the party in style too. The Aussie reached his half-century first, off just 19 balls in what came across like a very hostile batting stint, while Gambhir took 33 balls to do the same. To think that the visitors reached a 100 runs in just 7.4 overs made the opposition's batting effort shrink in comparison.
 
