BENGALURU: A nine-day-old girl, who was dumped in a bush hours after she was born and survived at least 15 deep  , is battling for life in the neonatal ICU of Hassan Government Hospital. 

 The newborn was found abandoned on July 13 in the bushes near  , near Holenarasipura, Hassan district, 170km from here. 
 
 The baby bore injuries all over her body, including the chest, when she was spotted by labourers working in a resort nearby. They immediately alerted 108 ambulance staff, who rushed to the spot and took her to the Holenarasipura Taluk Hospital.
 
 
 
  Doctors who examined the child said the injuries were caused by peacock pecks and referred her to the Hassan District Hospital for further treatment. Around 3pm on Thursday, the child was taken off the ventilator. 
 
  She is suffering from a lung condition called emphysema of the chest, a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, where air gets trapped in the tissues beneath the skin. "I first saw the baby on the morning of July 14. She had difficulty breathing and was in distress. Therefore she was put on ventilator. Seeing her condition improve, we have taken her off the ventilator. She has not been operated upon, but we sutured her injuries," said Dr R Venkatesh, district health officer, Hassan. 
 
  
 
 
  The infant is yet to take first feed on her own. Doctors said she is on IV fluids. 
 
  Colonel K S Natesh, chairperson of   (CWC), said it's a pity that the child's family abandoned her instead of surrendering her before the CWC. "We keep the identity of the mother/family anonymous. The baby would have been secure and healthy had she been surrendered to the CWC soon after birth. It's sad to see her suffering," he said, adding the child isn't completely out of danger. 
 
  Once she recovers and is stable, the baby will be up for adoption as per norms of the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA). In between, the baby's photo got leaked and there were families wanting to adopt her. According to CWC officials, the child's adoption can be allowed only in accordance with CARA norms. "Once she is hale and hearty, the baby will come before the CWC for adoption. We will follow CARA norms," Natesh added. 
 
