JAIPUR: In  , a 25-year-old has becoming India’s first   sub-inspector of police, but here in  , it is another story. A transgender, even after being selected for the post of constable, has not been given posting for more than two years.

 In what could be a clear case of discrimination, a 24-year-old transgender, resident of Jalore, despite being selected in written and physical test for recruitment as constable in police department is still awaiting posting orders for two years. This comes at a time when all other selected candidates have completed their training and received postings.
 
 During the past two years, Ganga Kumari met police officials from superintendent of police to director general of police, asking them to give her posting orders but all the efforts went in vain.
 
 Now, she has approached the court for justice. “Everyone has a right to live and every citizen of India has equal rights. No one can be denied a job in the government. Being a transgender is not a crime. I have filed a writ in the high court, Jodhpur division,” Kumari said adding that a transgender in Tamil Nadu fought a legal battle and now she is being trained along with other candidates for post of sub-inspector of police.
 
 Kumari is fighting for her rights since 2015. “Recruitment for constable post in police department was conducted in 2013. I passed the written and physical test. My name was placed at 148th in the list. The physical test was conducted in 2015. A medical test was also conducted. In the same year, result was declared. I was selected for the post of constable. But, in medical test, I was declared a transgender. Now, even though I have passed and cleared all phases of selection, I have not been given posting,” she told TOI.
 
 Kumari said, “There were 208 candidates selected. Out of them, 207 have got postings but I am the only one waiting for it.”
 
 She said that in Tamil Nadu, the government has given posting to transgender in government job but here no one has got a job yet. It is necessary that government should take necessary steps to give jobs to transgenders so that they will also work like others and earn livelihood in a more dignified way.
 
 Transgenders’ activist Pushpa said, “The state government has formed transgender board to address the problems of the community. But, the meetings of the board are not being held in a regular manner.” She is also a member of transgender board.
 
 Kumari’s advocate Tija Ram Choudhary had filed the writ, which was heard by high court in Jodhpur first time in December last year.
 
 The high court issued notice to government for filing a reply. “Till date, the government has not filed any reply in the matter. It is not serious about the issue. Not a single transgender has been posted in government job yet in the state, which is a cause of concern and violates rights of transgender,” Choudhary said.
 
 
