For any Indian who grew up nursing dollar dreams, Donald Trump’s election as US president has been the worst news of the decade! with the much-talked-about   introduced, it seems like their worst fears got confirmed. the bill spells doomsday for many, as it will make it tough for IT firms to employ Indian workers. ‘What if we can never go to the US again, ever?’ — that’s the common fear. And nowhere else is this fear more palpable than at the famed   on the outskirts of Hyderabad, where hundreds of visa hopefuls queue up reverently, passports in hand and dreams in their eyes.
Lord Balaji at this temple has earned the moniker Visa Balaji for good reason. It’s believed that anyone who prays here before applying for their visas, gets their prayers answered. And never before has Visa Balaji’s intervention been more important, it seems like. “Of course I am disturbed by the recent developments in the US. Now, my only hope is Balaji. i hope he will help realise my dreams of settling abroad and landing a good IT job there,” says Akshita, who hails from Uttar Pradesh. So, does she believe Visa Balaji will answer her prayers? “Well, that is the hope,” she tells us. 
 Hyderabad-based engineer Pawan, who lined up to do the customary eleven rounds around the Lord, had a similar story: “This is my first visit to this temple. I really hope Balaji can help me to get a Visa to the US. These developments were unprecedented and we just have no clarity.” 
 While the Archaka (priest) of the temple,  , cannot put an exact number on the footfall at the temple, he admits that there are a lot of such hopefuls, who’ve been knocking on the Lord’s door since Trump got elected as president. 
 CS Rangarajan, the Archaka of Chilukur Balaji temple though reckons “there is no need to worry” once you submit to the Lord. “Trump is temporary; Balaji is permanent. he has been granting boons for over 500 years now. If he wants to, he can even change Trump.” And it looks like that’s something everyone takes back from their visit to Balaji — a little more confidence and reassurance. In fact, the worried look on the faces of the new devotees who line up with their wishlists seem to disappear when they look at the sheer number of devotees who return to complete the 108 rounds around the temple once their wish is granted. 
 Harsh Baid, a senior developer who recently got his US Visa and will be flying to San Francisco soon, is one such beneficiary of Balaji. “I’ve returned to keep the promise I made to the Lord. The new Visa regulations have caused a bit of worry among a lot of us, but I see it as a positive change. It will help improve quality of IT professionals and will work in favour of both IT firms and employees,” says Harsh.
 but some like Aprana, don’t want to leave anything to chance, so they are giving Lord Balaji multiple options to choose by applying to Canada and European nations, which have pro-immigrant policies. “I changed my plans to pursue MS in the US. Now I want to move to Europe, and also looking at Canada as well,” shares Aprana.
 
