JAIPUR: In a violation against the   order that had ruled against the running of more than   in schools, several private   in Jaipur were found to be flouting it. The extra standard below the usual pre-primary classes has been kept to evade the Right to Education (RTE) rule, as per which every school has to admit 25% of the total strength of students from economically disadvantaged groups. These schools are taking admissions in all three classes but keep bare minimum number of seats at the entry level class so as to minimize the number of students admitted under the RTE Act. The RTE quota applies at the entry level and at the next level.

 Responding to a writ petition by advocate Monish Kumar Sharma, a division bench of Rajasthan High Court headed by Justice RM Lodha on August 22, 2007, had issued directions that pre-primary education may be of two years and minimum age of the child as on April 1 must be 3 years and above. “The non-compliance of direction by any of the private institutes having pre-primary classes shall be treated as deliberate disobedience of the order of this court. Defaulting institution may expose itself to the contempt of order of this court,” read the order.
 
 TOI did a reality check to find out that most of these schools included the third pre-primary standard after state issued notification in 2014 directing all   to admit 25% students at entry level and at the next level. For instance, Maharaja Sawai Man Singh Vidyalaya is admitting 32 students at introductory level-1, which includes 8 students under RTE quota. At the next level they are taking 64 students while at the third level they are admitting close to 100 students. “The strength comes to around 96 students with just about 23 under the RTE quota. The mischief by the school is a gross violation of both RTE and high court order,” said Pranjal Singh of Abhyutthanam Society. 
 
 The violation is not only affecting parents eyeing admission under BPL category but others also. Priyanka Kanawat, a PRO of a hospital in Jaipur was shocked when she learnt that a school had three pre-primary levels. “My daughter qualifies for the first level which has only 12 seats in the general category,” said Kanawat.
 
 Other schools which have three pre-primary standards are Neerja Modi School, St Edmund’s School and The Palace School. Indu Dubey, principal of Neerja Modi School, admitted to having three pre-primary schools but denied of knowing about any order preventing schools to have more than three pre-primary schools.
 
 These schools are following means like lottery system and more which are actually prohibited under the RTE Act. “In other pre-primary classes they are selecting students purely on the basis of recommendation from the management. This again is a gross violation as selection of students is to be done via lottery under RTE till the elementary classes,” said Singh. 
 
 Similarly, several schools across the state are following the same practice to minimize the number of seats at entry level. 
 
 “Several schools have come to my notice that have violated the court order. I am moving an application in the high court for issuing contempt notice to the errant schools,” said Monish Sharma, whose petition in 2007 resulted in the cap on pre-primary classes.
 
 
