MUMBAI: While consumers can now enjoy a waiver on service charge if unsatisfied with their dining experience, servers at restaurants fear a major slash in their monthly pay packet if the Centre’s latest ruling to make service charge purely voluntary is enforced. 

 “If service charge is made optional for customers, a huge chunk of our   will go,” rues an attendant who waits tables at Social. His basic monthly salary of Rs 12,000, along with an additional Rs 6,000-Rs 7,000 from service charge, ensures that he could live a comfortable life and send money home to Orissa. “I pay Rs 2,000 for my room rent and Rs 5,000 for food and travel. If I have to survive on just my basic salary, I’d be left with nothing.” 
 
 A   at TGIF and another at   dread the same. “A major portion of my salary is dependent on service charge. A monthly salary of Rs 11,000 is hardly enough to run a family, pay for insurance policies, rent and other costs of living,” they echo. 
 
 Service charge, which ranges from 5%-20%, was imposed by the hospitality industry in place of an erratic tipping system which altered a skewed system in which cash tips that were usually left to a customer’s liking and pocketed only by waiters; managers, kitchen staff and other employees could not lay claim to the collections.
 
 Tipping is usually bypassed, explains the assistant manager at Smoke House Deli in Lower Parel. “If the bill is Rs 3,000, not many pay Rs 300 as tip,” he says, explaining why the service charge helped create a system by which tips were fairly shared. “Cash tips collected in a tip box is divided every 15 days and doesn’t amount to over Rs 250-Rs 300 in a week,” says the waiter at Social. 
 
 Though restaurant owners sometimes pay their employees less, given the service charge incentive, and hold back a certain percentage of the kitty citing ‘breakage and maintenance’, the share disbursed among em-ployees is proportionate to seni-ority and ensures regular flow, most feel. Each restaurant has a point system according to whi-ch money is divided based on worker’s position: managers and kitchen staff get 10-12 poin-ts, captains six points, training stewards three points and so on.
 
 Most eateries have notices mounted at the entrance or inform patrons by word of mouth that they will levy service charge until a formal notice was served as opposed to the department of consumer affairs’ advice to prominently display that service charge is discretionary.
 
 
