SOLAPUR: Amid the constant hum of cotton mills, the   and the clatter of power mills in the industrial city of   in south-eastern Maharashtra, the legacy of Dr Dwarkanath   continues to inspire and encourage people to draw strength from and fight their many battles.

 So much so, that almost 75 years after his death, the city still fondly recalls his selfless service at the battlefront where he tended to Chinese soldiers battling the Japanese in the late 1930s.
 
 His valour and sacrifice continue to spur generations of young men and women. Chetan Kokane, a Class X student of Northcourt High School, Kotnis’s alma mater, is one of them. “I have heard that he tried a lot of new techniques to cure about 800 injured soldiers and earned a lot of respect in China. After learning about him, I now want to become a doctor,” he says. 
 
 Northcourt High School-- one of the oldest educational institutions in Solapur, holds an annual function in the memory of its illustrious student on December 9, the doctor’s death anniversary. The students take out a rally from the school to the museum named after Dr Kotnis. Guests are invited to speak on the occasion.
 
 For many, such programmes turn out to be eye-openers. “Until I attended the special memorial lecture, I had no idea that we had such a great personality from Solapur. His life is really inspiring for all of us,” says Akash Shirsat.
 
 The district administration has made some efforts to perpetuate his memory. The Solapur Municipal Corporation has converted the old wada (a traditional Maharashtrian house) in Bhaiya chowk, where Dr Kotnis lived with his parents, into a museum housing his memorabilia, photos and the letters written by him. The manicured lawns and well-appointed rooms mark a departure from the rundown museums seen elsewhere. A grand statue of Dr Kotnis, an amphitheatre and a Mandarin learning centre form a part of the museum premises. 
 
 His school too has maintained the century-old register that records his enrolment. “Every year, on his death anniversary, we organize a memorial lecture. It is our way of paying homage and making sure that the younger generation remembers him,” says S D Shinde, principal of the Northcourt high school.
 
 A website has been launched in the memory of Dr Kotnis. “I launched the website when the museum was thrown open to the public about four years back. I have strived to collect whatever information was available at the museum and from other sources and uploaded it on the website. I felt it would help spread awareness about Kotnis’s work to a larger audience,” says professor Ganesh Channa of Sangameshwer College.
 
 After a recent visit to the school and the railway hospital, the Chinese consulate has decided to extend support to the two institutions. “We would like to do something to support the hospital and school. We will donate computers and books for them,” said Guo Taojie, chief of political section, Consulate General of the People's Republic of China in Mumbai, said.
 
 For a city known for its textile mills, about 230 km south of Pune, Dr Kotnis remains a hero. 
 
