CHENNAI: With   aggressively capturing the metropolitan commute space,   in   are more reluctant than ever to use their meters. Though popular taxi players like Uber and Ola have rolled in flexible options like share and hire over the last year, auto drivers keep coming out with more reasons to dump the meters.

 Some auto drivers say passengers are not aware that cabs are more expensive on the whole. “If they can pay surge prices, two-three times over and above the actual fare for peak hours and weekends, they can pay 30 rupees more to an auto driver. But they refuse to do it,” says Rathinam, an auto driver. 
 
 At present there is no fixed state government mandated base fare or a cap on ‘dynamic pricing model’ that is employed by the cab aggregators, unlike for autorickshaws which have both a prescribed base fare (Rs 25 for 1.8km), per kilometer fare (Rs 12 per km) as well as a night time fare. 
 
 “The cabs are trying to put out attractive options to catch public attention. But passengers end up paying significantly more anyway,” adds Rathinam. He explains that services like Uber can charge extra on the passenger’s next ride, showing it as ‘pending payment’ if a ride time exceeds the calculated time. Autos do not have this kind of “indirect payment”, as he calls it.
 
 Some drivers like Samson maintain a different policy in using meters. “If the destinations are passenger hubs like central or airport, I’m willing to use meters. Otherwise it makes little sense to take a passenger to some parts of the city where return rides just don’t come by,” he says. He cites the examples of suburban and newly developed areas like OMR, where a large number of IT employees use share autos or share cabs.
 
 Passengers, especially young office-goers, justify avoiding use of autos by attributing it to the modes of payment, besides the over-the-meter tag that has stuck on Chennai autos.
 
 “Autos don’t take cash online unlike cabs, and continue to quote arbitrary pricing, making them not as attractive a choice as cabs,” says Siddhanth Joshi, an   employee who lives at Sholinganallur (OMR), a hotbed of cab users.
 
 
