BENGALURU: Tension prevailed on the premises of   (RBI) office on Nrupatunga Road on Monday, as scores of people who had turned up to exchange the demonetized Rs 500 and Rs 1000 notes for the new tender were turned back by the bank officials. 

 The  , many of whom had come from far-off places, got involved in   with the  , prompting the latter to call police to the spot to bring the situation under control. 
 
 "I came all the way from Mandya to exchange the notes. We were told that we would be able to exchange the notes at the RBI office till March 31. Now, they are saying the facility does not exist any longer," said Sidde Gowda, who had come to the RBI office here with Rs 50, 000 in demonetized notes.
 
 The notification issued by the RBI on November 8, 2016 read, "Individuals who are unable to exchange, or deposit the old notes in their respective bank accounts, on or before December 30, 2016 can do so at the specified branches of the RBI until a later date, which will be specified by the central bank."
 
 However, the RBI issued another notification on December 31, wherein the exchange facility was restricted to resident and non-resident Indians, who could not exchange or deposit the demonetized notes, on account of their absence in the intervening period between November 10 and December 30. "This facility will be available only to those whose accounts comply with the 'Know Your Customer' norms," read the notification. 
 
  Sources in the banking sector said that RBI amended the earlier notification to check money laundering. "The RBI had not expected as many irregularities, particularly of the magnitude we witnessed subsequently, when it issued the notification immediately after demonetization was announced," he added. 
 
 As part of the changed policy, the RBI has restricted the exchange facility to five of its branches - Mumbai, New Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata and Nagpur. 
 
 However, the people who were assembled in front of the Bengaluru RBI office were not willing to take a no. They continued to argue with the RBI authorities, but to no avail. Senior police officers said additional forces were sent to help policemen deployed near RBI office, after the crowd become unruly. "People who had gathered were not aware of the change in the rules. A few of them had been waiting for more than two hours, and started to argue with the officials, resulting in the protest. We asked the RBI officials to put up a board outside informing the public about the change in policy," he said. 
 
 
