NAGPUR/CHANDIGARH: Almost three years after 
 broke the news of two Sikh players representing India were forced to play without their turbans at the Asian Cup in China, basketball's governing body (Fiba) announced that players will be allowed to wear headgears that complies with their religious faith.

 Fiba's first-ever mid-term Congress, which brought together representatives from 139 National federations, unanimously ratified the Central Board's decision for a new rule that will allow female players to wear hijabs and male players to wear turbans and yarmulkes following a ban initially imposed for safety reasons 20 years ago.
 
 The statement was issued by the Switzerland-based body late on Thursday night, saying, "The rule to allow headgears will take effect in games from October 1." The decision to relax the rule comes at the end of a two-year testing period in a process that worked toward relaxing the previous restrictions. TOI had launched a campaign in July-August 2014 against racial injustice meted out to Indian players Amritpal and   during the   in Wuhan in China, and   in the under-18 Doha event.
 
  
  Basketball enthusiasts in the country have hailed the governing body for reversing a controversial ban on religious headgear. The announcement is said to be a game changer for Sikh athletes, who have been prohibited from basketball competitions because of their articles of faith.
 
 Legendary athlete   told TOI on Friday: "The decision of Fiba to allow Sikhs and other players to wear headgears while competing is a welcome news. It has been a long campaign to make this a reality, and praise should also go to the basketball governing body and the Sikh community. They have taken a very positive decision. Hockey players wear patkas and play. Fiba has done justice to the Sikh community."
 
 Current India captain   who faced the humiliation on July 12, 2014 when the post guard was asked to remove his turban minutes before the start of the game too hailed the decision. Amrit, who had a haircut after that tournament to compete in international competitions, said, "I am happy about this decision which will allow Sikh players across the world to pursue their dreams without compromising their faith. Now all basketball players can finally play freely, that too without compromising on their religious faith, without any paperwork."
 
 He added: "Finally, better sense has prevailed. Several Indian athletes have played with patkas all these years in different sports and nothing untoward has happened. The decision is very important for the Indian national team since most of our tall and well-built players who play in key positions come from Punjab. The patka is not just a religious symbol for us, it is part of us," he added.
 
 Similarly, Amjyot Singh, who for the first time on July 12 was forced to remove his turban to play the game in China, said, "We all can now play anywhere in the world freely. All the youngsters can now follow their religion and take part in competitions beyond their home countries. People know us because of basketball. It gives us jobs and brings food to the table. The game is everything for us. I think now many talented players from Punjab will not be apprehensive, whether they should continue playing the sport or not, after this rule change."
 
 Former India captain and one of country's consistent performer   too welcomed the move. "This is a very positive development. Basketball will change in India because younger players will be encouraged to pursue their goals without any compromise. The decision to allow players to wear religious headgear in competition will encourage more youngsters to play the sport because it gives participants the right to practice their faith and focus on playing ball."
 
 The new Fiba guidelines, which will take effect in October, stipulate that headwear must not cover any part of the face, including eyes, nose and lips. It must also be black or white, or the "same dominant color" as the uniform, and not be dangerous to players.
 
 Fiba board member and NBA Deputy Commissioner   said, "Fiba showed its commitment to inclusion by unanimously passing this rule regarding players' headgear. The displayed a progressive attitude toward the situation to come up with a resolution that works for all and will continue to grow the game of basketball around the world."
 
 India's former American Coach Scott Flemming who was with the team during the Asia cup in China said, "I am very glad for the change. Obviously, I was in the middle of the controversy in China at the Asia Cup. I had some long confrontations trying to convince Fiba to allow this back then. Now it is great that it has been resolved."
 
