NEW DELHI: After casting aside the UPA-era urban reforms agenda, the   government has reworked its own urban development agenda. Barely one-and-a-half years after it initiated Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), the urban development ministry has set aside its 28-point urban reforms plan and asked states to concentrate on a new set of five transformative reforms.
 
  From concentrating on micro reforms like online collection of advertisement tax, pensions, payroll and eprocurement, the urban local bodies would now shift to a new regime.
  
  These would include trust-and-verify approach to birth and death certificates, credit rating, land titling laws, framing value capture financing policies and establishment of a dedicated municipal cadre. Apart from two reforms –   and municipal cadre – the remaining three are new approaches.
  
  Speaking to ET, secretary (urban development) Rajiv Gauba said, “Most of the reforms under AMRUT – about 70% -- had to be completed by 2016-17 and the rest of the reforms in 2017-18. In any case, the reform agenda had to be revisited for the remaining time period.
  
  Many reforms (which were part of AMRUT) are being pursued under different schemes like Swachh Bharat Mission or  .”
  
  In the first year of implementation 2015-16, only 18 of 36 states and Union territories could achieve the targets and tap into monetary incentives offered under AMRUT by urban development ministry. The second year review would take   only next month.
  
  However, the target achievement has been slow. Sources said the change in strategy and leaving these systemic reforms to the states could   changes not taking place at all.
  
  Gauba, however, said, “It is not a break from our agenda but a change in the priorities. Reforms should nbot be more technical or procedural but should have a lasting and deep impact on urban governance. The reform agenda has been made more focused.”
  
  The flip-flop has left state governments in a quandary. A state’s urban development secretary, who did not wish to be identified, told ET, “We had been pushing certain reforms.
  
  Now there is a sudden paradigm shift. After doing micro management there is an expectation to shift focus to framing land titling laws, value capture financing policies and trust and verify approach. A lot of monetary incentive is being given on this. The remaining reforms in phase 1 have been left to the states’ whims. It gives confusing signals.” 
