MANALI: While recent snowfall has brought cheers to the  , the harsh winter has made life of the residents miserable by  , creating trouble for pedestrians and keeping drinking water pipes frozen the entire day.

 Compared to Wednesday’s minus 6.6°C, the town on Thursday recorded minimum temperature of minus 7.2°C. Despite clear sky, the sun has failed to melt the thick layer of ice. The highway and streets in Manali get frozen every night and only some parts melt in afternoon. As vehicles are not able to run on slippery ice, it is causing long traffic jams almost every day. Many vehicles are still stuck in the snow and streets here are not worth driving.
 
 “December was very warm and we had not expected such extreme cold in January. The sun rays have failed to melt icicles hanging from roofs,”  , a resident of Bhajogi area of Manali, said. Another resident Shiv Ram said he had not experienced such cold in last many years. “The nights are too cold. Room heaters are running throughout the day,” he said.
 
 The vehicles are frequently colliding with each other. The people, mostly tourists who are not used to walk on ice, are falling down on hard ice and sustaining injuries. The   water pipes with several residents storing water a day in advance. There are few places in shady areas where taps remain frozen throughout the day. 
 
 Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus Khan said the recent snowfall had damaged public and private property worth Rs 7.41 crore in Kullu district. “Of the 201 roads, 32 link roads are being reopened by the PWD. The department has suffered losses worth Rs 3.63 crore due to landslides and other reasons. The irrigation and public health department suffered damages worth Rs 2.38 crore while the revenue department had been informed about losses to public and private properties for about Rs 1 crore. About 90% of power supply in the district has been restored. The departments are directed to be ready with machineries to tackle any natural disaster,” he said.
 
