When the   cabinet was
  for his statements on all 
  , strangely the party's deputy general secretary T T V Dhinakaran was soft on the actor. 

 Instead, he took a dig at the AIADMK ministers. "Ministers have used disrespectful language towards Kamal. If at all he has levelled corruption allegations, the right response should be to ask for evidence of corruption and not retort in disrespectful manner,'' he said. Dhinakaran's statement is seen as an expression of his dissatisfaction with the Edapppadi K Palaniswami dispensation.
 
 Ever since Dhinakaran returned from Delhi after a brief spell of imprisonment in the EC bribery case, relations between him and the chief minister has been strained. Edappadi has managed to stand his ground despite pressure from MLAs backing Dhinakaran and kept the latter out of party affairs as much as possible.
 
 Many in AIADMK say Dhinakaran has been losing grip over the party as Edappadi continues to cement his position, even winning over leaders from the O Panneerselvam faction.
 
 Dhinakaran hoped to revive his position in AIADMK after his return from the prison and declared that he was giving 60 days time for AIADMK leaders to set the house in order. But neither EPS nor his MLAs met him after his return. Reaction to this apparent sidelining from Dhinakaran was very muted except for few MLAs acting as irritants in the assembly.
 
 Instead of succumbing to the pressure tactics Edappadi hardened his stand and took the lead in 
  in presidential elections without consulting Dhinakaran.
 
 Edappadi kept his cool and remained unfazed by MLAs meeting Dhinakaran. "He firmly believes that MLAs are backing Dhinakaran more due to regional political feuds like being sidelined by another local heavyweight rather than loyalty to Dhinakaran. Hence he is making it clear that all those who obey the party high command would be rewarded in due course,'' said an AIADMK functionary. "EPS also enjoys tacit support of Dhivakaran ( 's brother). All this has emboldened ministers as well as EPS,'' said an MLA.
 
 When   came down to Chennai seeking support for him in the elections, he met   and Panneerselvam while leaving out Dhinakaran. Party sources said feelers were sent to Kovind by Dhinakaran supporters that as party deputy general secretary he was ready to meet the presidential candidate and extend support. But the meeting never happened.
 
