MOHALI: A budget of Rs 21 crore was passed at the first house meeting of   after the assembly elections. 

 The MC house passed the annual budget while revealing the estimated expenditure of Rs 138.50 crore against projected income of 117.50 crore in the next financial year (2017-18) making it a deficit of Rs 21 crore. 
 
 A number of objections were raised on the budget, particularly by SAD councillor Bharat Bhushan Maini, who said no MC councillor was taken into confidence while preparing the final budget.
 
 When the issue of stray dog menace was raised, Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh said, “One should start adopting stray dogs and the neighbourhood should collectively take responsibility of the dogs, as we cannot kill them but only sterilize them. People should be encouraged to   collectively.”
 
 No objections were raised on the issue of display of advertisements as it was decided that the number of advertisement display boards would be decreased for the beautification of the town. Citing the example of Chandigarh, house members pointed out that the   maintained the number of display boards.
 
 However, the target of income generated from advertisements remained unchanged. Unlike last year, estimated income generation via advertisement tax was set at Rs 10 crore. According to the mayor, tax on advertisement can be increased or decreased by the house at any time.
 
 The primary source of income of the House for the financial year 2017-18 would be property tax, estimated at Rs 17 crore, VAT/Octroi projected income of Rs 66.60 crore, additional excise duty, expected to yield Rs 13 crore, rent fee income worth Rs 70 lakh, advertisement tax revenue of around Rs 10 crore, water supply and sewerage income generation of Rs 1.30 crore, building application fee likely to be around Rs 20 lakh and license fee income of Rs 24 lakh.
 
 Expenditure is set for Rs 144 crore. Out of this, Rs 98 crore will be spent on development work, expenditure on committed expenses would be Rs 42.50 crore and Rs 3.50 crore would be spent on other development work.
 
 City bus serviceMMC is trying hard to get city bus service, which is mandatory to get the smart city tag. The   has passed an agenda item in which loan of Rs 7.50 crore would be procured to run city bus service.
 
