GURUGRAM: A   on Monday awarded 10 years imprisonment and slapped a penalty of Rs 10,000 on a   for raping a   widow. 

 The court termed the case as peculiar, with both the woman and the convict being blind, and observed that allowing such a person to go free would be against the interest of society. 
 
 In her 50-page judgement, additional sessions judge Rajani Yadav observed that rape becomes barbaric when the victim is known to the culprit, as in the present case, with the former subjected to unwanted physical contact by a pervert on the pretext of marriage, and whose trust is betrayed by a man in whom she reposed maximum trust, so much so as to surrender herself before him in a physical relationship, after which he walked out of her life and threatened to kill her.
 
 The 32-year-old blind widow, mother of an eight-year-old daughter, had identified the accused, Saurabh Kapoor (33), resident of Mayur Vihar in Delhi, from his voice in court. 
 
 The court directed Kapoor to deposit the fine, failing which he will have to undergo an additional year of imprisonment.
 
 Public prosecutor Arvind Sharma said the judgement ruled out a consensual act. He added, “The first sexual intercourse was forceful. Subsequent acts of sexual intercourse were by the accused to actively cheat the victim by giving her the impression he would marry her. The court held that instead of being consensual, sexual intercourse involved obtaining consent by exercising deceit, and couldn’t be legitimate defence to exculpate the accused.”
 
 The judgement further mentioned that it is clear that the victim has been wanting to lodge a complaint against Kapoor, but was held back by his persuasion and promise to marry her. 
 
 “Using the same pretext, he committed further sexual assaults whenever he took her out to some place,” said Sharma, quoting the court order.
 
 Rejecting the appeal for sympathy owing to the blindness of the accused, the court observed it was not inclined to take a lenient view and release Kapoor on probation. 
 
 “He has raped a young woman who was helpless, defenceless, vulnerable and an easy prey, who trusted him so much to surrender herself to him, while he used, violated and exploited her body,” observed the court, adding that undue sympathy to impose inadequate sentence would do more harm to the justice system and undermine public confidence in it.
 
 Taking strong view of the crime, the order mentioned that courts should not give license to those who look for opportunities to exploit sentiment and vulnerability of Indian girls who perceive marriage as a pious bond, not as union of two bodies. 
 
 
