VADODARA: The authorities of the two city-based blood banks that are under the scanner for allegedly providing infected blood to patients have claimed that no patient was given infected blood.

 Officials of the Food and Drug Control and   had found, during inspection of reports last year, that   and Indu Blood Bank had allegedly accepted and given infected blood.
 
 “The authorities came in September last year and checked the reports. They pointed out that the blood reports of four donors had tested negative for jaundice. I pointed out that only the first report came positive due to a machine error and that we had run two more tests on the blood of the same donors,” said Dr   who runs Suraktam Blood Bank.
 
 He told TOI that the the other two test results were negative and hence the blood was given. “We explained to the officials but they considered the first report and refused to look into the other two reports that were negative. We were issued a notice on December 23 last year and asked to explain the issue,” Bhesania said. 
 
 Also, several instructions regarding improving our infrastructure were given by the officials. 
 
 “We have been asked to not organize any blood donation camp or accept blood donation till the inquiry is over. We will reply to the notice with complete details as we are not at fault. I again called about 12 donors including those four after the notice and repeated the tests but the results were negative,” Bhesania added. 
 
 Dr Vijay Shah, honorary medical director of  , said, “We have a standard practice that if the first test is positive, we repeat the test again. If the second test is negative, we repeat it again and if the third test is also negative only then we issue blood. The same protocol has been followed in this case. Of the 10 samples that they have mentioned, all have been found negative twice and only then the blood was given to the patients. So, we have not issued not a single unit of blood which was tested positive.”
 
 “The blood samples are tested based on ELISA method which is a screening method not a confirmatory method. So there are higher chances of false positive in this method. And that is the reason why when the sample is tested positive we repeat it again,” said Shah, adding that the team from   had come for routine inspection in October. “During inspection, we had submitted them the negative reports also which they have not taken into consideration,” he said, adding that on Wednesday, the blood bank also submitted the same negative reports to food and drugs department
 
 HG Koshia, commissioner, food and drugs, said that both the blood banks have been asked to suspend functions till the final report of the investigation is submitted. "The operations of the blood banks have been temporarily stopped in public interest," he told TOI.
 
 The report will be submitted within two or three days and if it reveals that the blood was infected, more stringent action would be taken.
 
 Asked if any people were infected, Koshia said, "We cannot say anything before the report is submitted."
 
