KOCHI:   for film shoots said that goons infiltrated the industry in recent years. Agencies, which provided security to film stars for over two decades, claimed that the so-called `bouncers' were thugs appointed by actors for  .

 According to  , one of the first persons in the state to offer security services to film crews, said that the trend of `bouncers' and `personal guards' started a few years ago. “The new breed of security are guys with toned physique and sporty outfits.The problem with them is that such people do not stick around for long and they come to this industry with other intentions. We are here just to make a living,“ said Das, who runs Nayana cine security services.
 
 He added that forming close relationships with such people within a short period is the root of all troubles. “I hardly hire new guys, I have at least 30 guards who have exclusively worked in the film field. I have been in the industry for nearly 25 years. We are being excluded as the staff at the location are now not under the control of the production controller,“ said Das, adding that the guards are employed by persons close to the actors.
 
 “These newbies are troublemakers and most of them have a criminal history,“ says the traditional guards.
 
 Malayalam Cine Technicians Association (Macta) Federation has also stated that the rise of persons with criminal background in the film industry contributed to the latest incident when an actor was allegedly kidnapped and sexually abused in a moving vehicle. “Many actors had employed Pulsar Suni as their driver although he was a historysheeter,“ said general secretary of Macta Federation Baiju Kottarakara.
 
 Police sources said that Sunil was career criminal with a history of duping people after getting himself employed as their driver.
 
 “He used to run a service wherein he provided assistance as a driver upon receiving a request. Once he become familiar with a customer, he used to suggest another friend of his as his replacement before duping the customer later,“ said the police “A doctor based in Tripunithura had a similar experience. After befriending the doctor via his call-driver service, he became the doctor's temporary driver. Later, he tried to flee with the car along with an accomplice whom he had introduced as his replacement.Police later traced the car from Kozhikode following a complaint,“ said a police officer on condition of anonymity.
 
