INDORE: When   walked in at No.4, he was greeted with huge cheers, the kinds usually reserved for the likes of MS Dhoni and  . These are still early days for Pandya in international cricket but those cheers were ample evidence of his impact on the side. Pandya has started making his presence felt in virtually every game, and Sunday was no different. His 72ball 78, which had five fours and four sixes, gave India a comfortable five-wicket victory and sealed the series for the hosts.

 As Virat Kohli pointed out in the presentation ceremony,” He is a star. He possess ability with the bat, ball and in the field as well. We have been wanting a guy like that for the past five, six years. A really explosive all-rounder is what we were missing and he is giving us that balance. He is a great asset for the Indian cricket.”
 
 Pandya's six-hitting abilities are well known. On Sunday, he showed his batting isn't just about six hitting. He can build the innings too. After all, he was sent in at No.4. It took him just four balls to hit his first six when he launched Ashton Agar over deep mid-wicket. The crowd started chanting, ‘We want sixer’. Obviously the plan was to target the spinners and it came out pretty well.”
 
 It (batting at No. 4) does not make any difference where I bat. Rather than seeing this as a challenge, I see this as an opportunity to do something nice for the team. When I was told I was going to go out to bat next, I was happy . This is the first time I played so many balls, so it was great,” said Pandya, with a smile on his face.
 
 Pandya defended the next ball quietly and then pushed the next ball to long-on for a single.
 
 “It's not just about hitting,” Pandya pointed out. “(In Chennai) when Zampa was bowling, I knew I could hit a six off him any time I wanted. But I waited till the 37th over and then used the opportunity to change the momentum. Eventually, that one over changed the momentum in that game. I tried it and it came out pretty well. That's my way of thinking. It's about being positive and backing yourself and if I feel like, I go for it. I read the situation and go for it.”
 
 The message was simple for him when he was promoted to No.4. “Play your game, however you play”. India appear to have found a genuine fast bowling all-rounder after nearly two-and-a-half decades. Pandya, however, is unperturbed about the expectations. He will have good and bad days. “I focus only on the things which I can focus and right now I'm just playing my cricket. I just back myself and if you back yourself, you always come out on top. I mean you can't score every day but yes, backing yourself is pretty important,” Pandya said.
 
 Pandya's bowling too is getting better with each outing. He is chipping in with important wickets. He got   in the first two One-dayers. On Sunday , it was a different challenge as there was hardly anything for the bowlers.His figures may suggest differently but he did his job with the ball..
 
 
