CHENNAI: In the backdrop of  's threat to resume political activities in August, chief minister   has shifted his focus to AIADMK (Amma) faction MPs. The MLAs, out of compulsion to save their seats, are supporting him.

 Ahead of the   beginning with the Presidential poll on July 17, EPS held talks with his MPs – a first in his chamber after assuming charge -- to have a firm grip over possible ‘loose radicals’ in Delhi.
 
 Party sources said five MPs skipped the meeting despite invitations from the CM’s office the previous day. Palaniswami is being more assertive these days, said one of the participants. He shot down the suggestion of some MPs that a senior bureaucrat be appointed as a channel of communication between them and the CM, akin to Jayalalithaa having had her  . “Instead, EPS told us to call him over phone whenever we want his guidance. EPS is a hands-on leader. He maintains direct channel of communication with the party leaders. He is averse to operating through bureaucrats. We suggested a bureaucratic link because many crucial legislations are to be taken up in the coming Parliament session. We did not want to disturb him often,” said a senior MP. His cabinet colleagues vouch for EPS’ accessibility.
 
 Having backed Ram Nath Kovind’s candidature for the Presidential election, EPS wants to ensure that the votes do not split. Political parties cannot issue whip in the Presidential election. He told the electorate in his party to be available in Chennai on Sunday itself. Whoever is voting in Delhi have been told to rush there on Sunday. Palaniswami also insisted that the MPs raise state’s concerns – like the pending dues that the Centre owes to the state - in the Parliament. The issues to be highlighted include frequent arrests of fishermen, protests against hydrocarbon project in the Cauvery delta districts and dispute over exemption for TN from NEET. When MPs queried about Modi government’s controversial rule against sale of cows for slaughter, EPS’ blunt reply was, “The matter is pending in the court. You don’t need to express your opinion on that”.
 
 “He wants to assert his responsibility and lead us in the absence of our general secretary, Amma. The party is behind EPS, the headquarters secretary,” said a senior minister.
 
 Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai was a notable absentee in CM’s meeting. The senior leader was not present when the chief minister met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in May. Instead, Edappadi took his low profile brother-in-law Manickam with him for the meeting with Modi. On Saturday, Thambidurai trained his guns on Modi government for the GST regime and NEET. “Do we need to beg before the Centre after GST? Already, we suffer at the hands of the Centre owing to non-release of funds, despite several reminders. I see a pattern in losing state’s rights to the Centre. It is not good for the federal structure,” he said. Finance minister D Jayakumar reiterated that it was the collective decision of the ministers to sideline Sasikala clan. “There is no change at all in our stand,” he told TOI.
 
