THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Former chief minister   has written to Prime Minister   seeking clarification on whether the central government has any links with the UK-based   which was blacklisted by the previous UPA government. He also urged the Centre to publish the names of the companies that have been shortlisted for printing   in the country.

 Quoting newspaper reports, he alleged that this company was given 10 acres in   to set up a unit that would print both Indian and foreign currency notes, in 2016.
 
 Chandy also alleged that the said company was the platinum sponsor of the Indo-UK summit held during the visit of   to New Delhi from November 7 to 9. “How can a company blacklisted by the government partner in the summit organized by the central government,” asked Chandy.
 
 He said that an attempt was being made by the government of India to help this UK-based company expand its operations in India and also print plastic notes.
 
 “The documents which I have collected clearly shows that the company De La Rue has been working in India as part of the   initiative launched by the Prime Minister and has also been the collaborating with the department of commerce. This has raised serious doubts among the people,” said Chandy.
 
 The CEO of the De La Rue, Martin Sutherland, in an interview (published in their official website) in September 2016 had stated that the company has established an office in New Delhi and is working closely with the department of public finance and promotion of the government of India to participate in the Make in India Initiative. The statement has not been contested by the government till date, he said in the letter sent to Modi.
 
 Minister of state for finance Arjun Ram Meghwal, on December 9, had said in Parliament that India has taken steps to print plastic currency. 
 
 Following this there were newspaper reports that three companies, including De La Rue, has been shortlisted for printing plastic notes. “I request you to advice the concerned ministry to publish the list of companies that are shortlisted/qualified for printing plastic currency in India,” urged Chandy.
 
 
