NASHIK: Deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   on Thursday said that motorists are largely to blame for the rising rate of   in the city, as rules are not followed in letter and spirit.

 Taking a dig at the civic body without naming it, he said that absence of footpaths in the city force pedestrians to walk on roads, thereby endangering their lives.
 
 Patil also highlighted the importance of seatbelts for car drivers and helmets for two-wheeler riders. “The law enforcement agencies are doing their bit to make the roads safer. However, it is the responsibility of all the motorists to follow rules such as helmet and seatbelt to avoid accidents,” he said.
 
 He was speaking at the  , where   conducted its 600th Road Safety lesson in an attempt to enter the Guinness Book of World Records, 
 
 The officer cited the example of overloaded school transport vehicles, saying that it is primarily the duty of parents to ensure their child’s safety. “We are pained to see schoolchildren travelling in overloaded rickshaws and vans. Parents, especially mothers, are not worried about the safety of their kid,” he said. 
 
 Patil said that the transporter gets the money so he is not worried about anything. It again boils down to the police to stop such transporters. But this should not be the case. Parents should ensure that they do not send their children in overloaded autos and vans,” he said.
 
 The officer also raised the issue why there are no adequate footpaths in the city for the safety of pedestrians. The city has good infrastructure, but there are no footpaths. Pedestrians are forced walk on the streets and are likely to be hit by vehicles, he said. 
 
 He also warned that the police, which avoided mentioning facts related to accidents in the reports, will henceforth clearly mention if the motorist was wearing safety gear or if they were driving in correct or incorrect lanes.
 
 Patil urged motorists to respect pedestrians and cyclists, and underlined the need to keep the mobile phone away while driving. He also showed a few videos to drive home his point.
 
