HRD Ministry’s National Institutional Ranking Framework recently released the rankings of Indian universities in five categories, including university, college, pharmacy, engineering and overall ranking. Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore tops the list in the overall category, but closer home, none of the city institutions could make it to the top 100 (overall category), although, Nagpur’s  ,   and GHRCE have attained 42nd, 64th and 67th spot, respectively (in engineering category). It doesn’t augur well for the newly crowned smart city that wears this tag with a lot of pride. We spoke to some of the top educationists of Nagpur to understand what needs to be done to up the overall NIRF ranking.

 
 I feel all of us need to adopt online support platform wherein we can take care a lot of problems, including staff crunch using portals like MOOC (Massive Open Online Courses). It would also give our students better exposure. Also, the system of NIRF is relatively new and there are initial hiccups regarding filling the details online. By next year, we will all fare better as we improve our internal, institutional as well as online system.
 -  , Principal, LAD College
 
 
 Institute of Engineering and Technology
 The first and most important thing we need to do is, stop migration of our students as well as teachers to cities like Mumbai, Pune, Bangalore or Delhi. Once you provide opportunities to the students and teachers in the city to grow and evolve, there will be no brain drain, leading to cream crowd moving out. With IIT, IIM and more government colleges starting in Nagpur, I’m hopeful that we shall do much better in the next couple of years as far as rankings go.
 -  , Principal, Priyadarshini 
 
 
 University ranking system is a complicated business; it is not based on any one particular thing. It is a mix of the whole that gives a holistic view of an institution. So, first thing we need to do is, identify our weaknesses and work on eliminating them, seriously. It would not happen in a span of one year; if we work on this process consistently for five years, we shall be able to replace some of those in top 100 slot.
 - Dr Raju Mankar, Director, LIT
 
