   aired yet another episode without its most loved character   and it bored us to death.
 
  The show tried to bring in entertainment with chote kalakars from their new reality show Sabse Bada Kalakar. The young kids were dressed as Navjot Singh Sidhu and Rajesh Arora, made famous by Kapil. The brief laughs weren't enough to keep you glued to the show, which was once a staple for every comedy show lover.
  
  Raveena, who will be seen as judge on Sabse bada kalakar and is also making a comeback on the big screen with Maatr, took over the host duties and introduced other nanhe kalakars.
  
  The show was perfect example of how not to do a comedy show without its lifelines.
  
  Next came Jamie Lever, daughter of legendary comedian Johnny Lever.
  
  
 
  
  Jamie is making her debut as a host of Sabse Bada Kalakar beginning on Sony TV. But she didn't have the class of her dad Johnny. She tries to make the audience laugh with her gig as she imitated every judge of reality shows including Karan Johar, Anu Malik, Asha Bhosle and bored the hell out of everyone.
  
  Kapil has lost his golden touch and his downfall seems inevitable. He couldn't bring in the laughter that he is known for. We wonder if he is the same man who had won everyone's heart with his loveable characters, acts on Comedy Circus, The Laughter Challenge.
  
  The show's only saving grace was the act by Kiku Sharda, who played the role of a milk man.
  
  Raveena was asked to promote milk man's 'Insaniyat Cheese'. But Kiku cannot save the show alone.
  
  And then came the Q & A round with fans. One of the fan came with his bhelpuri and pani puri stall.
  
  Finally we saw Sarla and danced on tip tip Basra Paani with Raveena Tandon. But you could see her getting conscious dancing with Kapil, the man whom she loves in the show.
  
  And then came a performance by veteran comedian Raju Srivastav but he failed again.
  
  Raju played the role of Bumper's chacha, his gags reminded of old gigs he has done in the past.
  
  The only person who was laughing was Sidhu.
  
  Wish we could watch Dr Gulati romance Raveena but that wasn't the case. Hope to see the return of the original cast soon and some laughter on The   Show.
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
