PATNA: Two satellites of the   ( ) will capture images of Gandhi Maidan on Tuesday in the run up to the ambitious mission of the Nitish Kumar government to create the longest   in the world to spread awareness about prohibition.

 In a rehearsal of the January 21 event, the two satellites will take images of Gandhi Maidan from a distance of 60,000km above ground at around 10 in the morning. While the actual human chain will be formed on January 21, the state government will put a large black cloth measuring 150 metres and write ‘Bihar’ on top of it in white with a bottle and a cross mark to spread the prohibition message.
 
 “The satellites are expected to follow the same path on January 21 as they will on Tuesday. We have been told by ISRO officials that two satellites will cross through Patna on Tuesday morning. So, we decided to run a trial so that we know about the position of the satellite vis-à-vis ours,” said mass education director Vindoanand Jha, adding a   team held a meeting with senior state government officials on Sunday and they would come on January 21 as well to monitor the human chain for being included in the world records.
 
 Jha further said the   had agreed to assess the human chain to be created on January 21 for being included in their list of world records and talks were going with the Guinness World Records as well. The latter, however, had some technical issues in covering such a large area.
 
 The total length of the human chain will be 11,285km, comprising 3,0007km in the main route, which will not break anywhere. Besides, the length of the chain in the sub-route will be around 8,000km.
 
 The record for the longest human chain in the Guinness World Records is of 50 lakh people, who formed a 1,050km (652.4 miles) long chain by joining hands from Teknaf to Tentulia in Bangladesh on December 11, 2004.
 
 The map of Bihar is to be made at Gandhi Maidan as part of the human chain which will be captured through the two satellites of ISRO, while three international satellites will capture images of the chain at other places in the state. 
 
 Apart from satellites, over 40 drones and low-flying aircraft will also be used for taking images of the human chain. State cabinet coordination department has recently written to director general of civil aviation (DGCA) to use the four trainer aircraft of Bihar Flying Club for taking images of the human chain. The state government will also need to take permission from the Union home ministry for all sorts of aerial photography.
 
 
