Coimbatore: The city police busted a job racket with the arrest of a 27-year-old man at Vadavalli on Monday. A car, Rs 5.11 lakh in cash, five laptops, a desktop and three mobile phones were also seized from his possession. 

 According to the police, M Kumaresan, 27, of Naripalli near Harur in Dharmapuri district, has cheated more than 50 people in the city to the tune of Rs 40 lakh by promising them to get jobs in airlines, airports and software firms. 
 
 Police said he bought a new car recently and was staying in a flat at Vadavalli in Coimbatore to hide from the victims. He had paid Rs 18,000 as monthly rent for the flat. He had pursued BCA and was working in a private firm in Salem where he allegedly cheated few people and his friends. Later, the issue was settled amicably.
 
 Meanwhile, he moved to Coimbatore in December 2016 and started a recruitment firm in the name of ‘Sai Techno Recruitment’ on Lawley Road. He had advertised his firm’s details on websites and requested people to approach him to get jobs in airlines sector, airports, banking sector and IT firms. He introduced himself as Arjun to the victims. 
 
 One of the victims, N Vijayakumar, 31, of Rathinapuri and an engineering graduate, had approached the recruitment firm. Arjun had promised Vijayakumar a job at Coimbatore airport as senior supervisor and he was asked to pay a deposit amount of Rs 1 lakh. Believing Arjun’s words, Vijayakumar had paid Rs 1 lakh to the firm. 
 
 He was also given appointment order. But when Vijayakumar went to join at the airport authority, he was told that the appointment letter was a fake. 
 
 Meanwhile, Arjun had closed his firm and went missing since April 2017. Over 50 people were cheated of Rs 40 lakh by Arjun and his accomplices.
 
 Based on Vijayakumar’s complaint, cybercrime cell of the Coimbatore city police registered a case against Arjun alias Kumaresan and two others under various sections of IPC two days ago. 
 
 Police inspector K Mallika and sub-inspector V Nirmala arrested Arjun alias Kumaresan on Monday and seized a car, laptops, computer and mobile phones. Arjun alias Kumaresan was remanded in judicial custody.
 
 
