COIMBATORE: A day after reporting how youngsters were stealing psychotropic drug Pentazocine from local hospitals, TOI has learned that more than 30 young addicts from the district are undergoing therapy at a rehabilitation centre in Kerala. They include children of industrialists and even police officers.

 Sharing his story, a parent told TOI how he was struggling to get his son kick the habit. “I had sent my son to a rehabilitation centre in Kerala about eight times. But, he is yet to come out of the addiction. He is also undergoing counselling and psychiatric treatment.“
 
 While de-addiction and rehabilitation centres are very few in Tamil Nadu, the treatment is extremely expensive, another parent said. “There are many alcohol de-addiction centres, but very few drug de-addiction centres.“
 
 Psychiatrists in Coimbatore say they receive more than six young addicts a day for counselling. Dr  , a psychiatrist at the Kovai Medical Centre and  , said young addicts face social stigma and suffer from personality disorders.
 
 “Many parents approach us to help their children. But intravenous drug addiction is a serious issue and requires adequate treatment apart from counselling,“ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Dr K Sudarsan, chief psychiatrist at the   at Thodupuzha in Idukki district, Kera la, said, “Parents of many young addicts from Tamil Nadu, especially Coimbatore, approach us seeking treatment for substance abuse. Worried parents from all walks of life, including businessmen and police officers approach us. Apart from personality changes, young addicts also develop psychotic problems. They also show withdrawal symptoms. They require medication for treatment,“ he said. Rehabilitation takes anywhere between three weeks and 90 days, the doctor added.
 
 Dr   of the Savidha Medical Center and Hospital at  , who has done extensive research on the subject, said social rehabilitation is essential to help young addicts.
 
 “Addicts will do anything to get the drug. They even resort to theft and violence. They are prone to lung and skin infections. Due to syringe sharing, they also are susceptible to tuberculosis, HIV and Hepatitis B and C,“ she said.
 
 
