CHENNAI: Heated exchanges were witnessed between the opposition and treasury benches over the recent murder and suicide of people who had worked at former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s  . Pandemonium prevailed in the House for a while after DMK MLA J Anbazhagan dubbed the deaths mysterious and hit out at the government for deteriorating law and order in the state. Chief minister   detailed the efforts taken by the government to crack the murder of a watchman at Kodanad, including setting up of seven special teams.

 Anbazhagan said when the high security Kodanad estate was unsafe, one could imagine the plight of common people. He also questioned the mystery behind the death of five people. First, security guard Om Bahadur Tapa was murdered. Next, wife and daughter of one of the accused Syan died in an accident. Later, driver Kanagaraj, the main accused in the murder case, died in an accident. Recently, a computer operator Dinesh Kumar, who had worked at Kodanad estate, committed suicide.
 
 Replying to this, chief minister said that on April 23, security guard Om Bahadur was found murdered and another security Krishna Bahadur was found with injuries. Police formed seven special teams to investigate the case. On April 24, cops sifted through the evidences ranging from CCTV footages collected from check posts, hotel in which they had check-in ahead of the heist in Nilgiris, and the tower dump data. On April 29, police picked up four of them – Santhosh Swamy, Deepu, Satheesan and Udayakumar from Tirussur and recorded their confessional statements. With their statements, police established the role of 11 people, who came in three cars to commit the offence. The probe further revealed the involvement of former driver of chief minister J Jayalalithaa, Kanagaraj, who knew well about the Kodanad estate. He hatched a plan with Syan, a bakery employee from Coimbatore, and took the help of nine others in executing the crime. All suspects except for the driver who masterminded the heist and died in a road accident were accounted for and arrested, he said.
 
 He said a detailed investigation was being carried out into the death of Kanagaraj, while Palakkad south traffic investigation police were investigating the accident case in which Syan’s wife and daughter were killed.
 
 The chief minister said that   police meticulously handled the case and swiftly apprehended the suspects.
 
