LUCKNOW: With almost all newlyelected   MLAs lacking administrative experience, the new government in Uttar Pradesh is likely to be run from the Chief Minister’s Office, with guidance from the Prime Minister’s Office. This will make the role of bureaucrats and police very important as was the case when Kalyan Singh was the chief minister in 1991.
 
  Similarly, when Prime Minister   was Gujarat CM, he oversaw most administrative operations with the help of a select team.
  
  There is a ray of hope among honest, efficient bureaucrats and seniorto-middle rung policemen that they will be given important postings and a free hand to deliver. The   has officials like Nripendra Mishra, PK Sinha and others who know the state like the back of their hands.
  
  With BJP’s chance of retaining power at the Centre depending heavily on its electoral performance in the state that elects the most number of MPs, the PMO is likely to keep a close tab on Lucknow.
  
  Substantial central funds are likely to be allocated to UP under various heads and for   projects. A beginning has already been made with allocation of Rs 11,421 crore under AMRUT for improving basic urban infrastructure by 2019-20. Implementation is likely to be monitored closely in UP.
  
  BJP president Amit Shah had talked about establishing ‘Kalyan raj,’ alluding to the Kalyan Singh government during the campaign.
  
  In his first term as CM, Singh had given honest and efficient officials a free hand in controlling crime. Both   and   regimes are infamous for undue interference in administration.
  
  Officials, especially the police, found themselves at the mercy of the party in power. “Maya--wati was very strict but   was taken for a ride by some corrupt bureaucrats due to his inexperience,” a senior bureaucrat alleged.
  
  With SP and BSP assuming power by rotation, most officials are identified with one or the other. “Months before the assembly elections, officials close to   had formed a group, expecting ‘achhe din’ as soon as she becomes CM. They are a disappointed lot,” a police officer said.
  
  Since BJP has been out of power for 14 years, most bureaucrats and police personnel have not been in touch with its senior party leaders.
  
  Some officials who had opted for central government deputation during SP rule are reportedly in touch with BJP for returning to the parent cadre. At the director-general level, IPS officers Arun Kumar, OP Singh and Rajnikant Misra may return.
  
  “In virtually every police station in Uttar Pradesh, a Yadav had been posted as station officer in SP rule. This is very demoralising for others,” a deputy superintendent level officer said. Though some newlyelected BJP MLAs have been boasting that officials will be posted with their consent, the over-riding criteria is likely to be ability to perform.
  
  
