VISAKHAPATNAM: At a time when the state government is planning to transform Vizag into a global tourism hub, tourists visiting the   to enjoy a ride aboard the Swarna Vihari Boat feel that the boat service needs to be improved before the government announces other projects.

 On a visit to the Fishing Harbour, TOI inspected the boat’s condition and interacted with the tourists on Monday. 
 
 Joseph Thansanga, a tourist from Mizoram, who came for a boat ride with his family, said right from the approach road to the ticket counter, nothing was in proper shape. “The concerned authorities have left this tourism facility in such a pitiful condition. I came to know through the media that tourism is being developed in the city, but the condition of this boating facility is enough to tell how they actually are on the ground,” he said, adding that safety jackets, seats and even the shelter provided at the ticket counter is not maintained properly. “The approach road is full of potholes and there are no eateries or toilets in the area,” Joseph pointed out.
 
 “The waiting area has broken seats from another tourist boat that was damaged by cyclone Hudhud, while the shed is made of gunny bags. There are no toilets in the vicinity, especially for women. And to top it all, fishermen dry fish in front of the ticket counter which is a major inconvenience,” said  , a tourist from Kolkata.
 
 Meanwhile, a tourism department official said initially, nearly 1,000 tourists come to the Fishing Harbour daily to ride the boat between September and January, but around half of them used go back disheartened due to long waiting time, no shelters, and lack of refreshments, among others.
 
 “We operate only one boat with a seating capacity of 40 people. People have to wait at least half an hour to get a chance as the boat takes minimum 30 minutes to go around the sea up to 2 km,” the tourism official added.
 
 “The state government spent crores of rupees in the name of international summits. It is now coming up with a Tourism Conclave on February 24 and 25 to showcase the tourism potential of Vizag, but it has no funds to develop the boating facility,” the official rued.
 
 When contacted, AP Tourism Development Corporation ( ) divisional manager TV   said, “We have sent requests for one more boat and improvement of the boating facility to higher-ups. We are also planning to talk with   officials to allocate the jetty for running the tourism boats.”
 
