Bhopal: Aware that one of the fastest growing area is faring poorly in civic amenities, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday tried to woo residents of Kolar by announcing a masterplan. The area, he said, would be developed into an ‘ultramodern township’ and get a dedicated masterplan with Rs 915 crore worth of schemes to improve infrastructure. 

 And if the announcement is taken to a logical conclusion, Rs 56 crore drinking water supply pipeline for the area would turn into a reality and inaugurated on December 25 – coinciding with the birthday of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Obviously, the declaration would sound like music to ears of residents. 
 
 Addressing around 3,000 people, including school and college students, the CM spelled out better infrastructure would get a priority. The area, a satellite town on city outskirts for long before it became part of the municipal corporation, would get funding from the state government and will stand to benefit from Union government initiatives. The area with a population of about three lakh can look forward to improved infrastructure, drinking water supply, proper sewage system and uninterrupted electricity supply. 
 
 “Kolar will be systematically developed and become an ultramodern township,” said Chouhan, admitting Kolar suffered from unplanned development by private builders.
 
 Local MLA Rameshwar Sharma left no stones unturned to ensure a huge gathering at Banjari Dusshera Maidan in Kolar. Kolar will now be called Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Nagar, announced Sharma. 
 
 In his speech, BMC mayor Alok Sharma also highlighted the haphazard development of the area. “A sewage system would be put in place at a cost of Rs 125 crore in Kolar,” he said.
 
 The BMC had started connecting Kolar homes with water pipelines last year. Work on four of the five overhead water tanks, each with a capacity of 20,000 litres, is over, Sharma said.
 
 It was also announced a new Tehsil office would be opened in Kolar. It would benefit citizens in some 15 wards, said SDM Atul Singh. Revenue department has objected to the move. Sources said that in a proposal local MLA got 42 villages included. Bhopal currently has two tehsils – Huzur and Berasia. Once Kolar tehsil is created, there is a proposal for creating 8 tehsils in Bhopal district.
 
 ***
 
 Slew of schemes for Kolar
 
 Kolar municipality was merged in the BMC in 2015. Since then, there were demands for focussed development of the area.
 
 “There are power cuts in the area. Though it has declined, there should be zero power outage,” said MLA Rameshwar Sharma. 
 
 Experts indicate while Kolar has been part of Bhopal’s masterplan, it has never got an importance. “Much of construction in Kolar is not TNCP-approved. It was rather through local bodies,” said an official, seeking anonymity. The haphazard development also got a passing reference in the chief minister’s speech. 
 
 Announcement of development of Kolar projects worth Rs 915 crore was revealed at the end of Chouhan’s speech. Later, officials and local MLA were unable to provide its breakup. 
 
 Work of laying down water distribution pipeline in 159 km in all wards of Kolar would cost about Rs 52 crore. So far 80 km area has already been covered. A two lakh litre capacity water purifier at Kerwa dam is ready to supply water.
 
 Construction of a bridge worth Rs 4.5 crore over Kaliasot river in Amarnath Colony is near completion. Kolar is to get connected with Mandideep industrial area through an alternate route. A 13 km road is being built from Gol Jod to Mandideep at a cost of Rs 5 crore. Nearly 7.5 metre wide road will be in concrete. 
 
 ***
 
 Photo Quotes 
 
 DPS teacher: There is a need for better infrastructure to develop Kolar. It includes roads, electricity and drinking water supply.
 
 DPS student: Announcements about empowering women is welcome. Politicians and people need to walk the talk, when it comes to empowering women. 
 
 Student male: Kolar has been a neglected area for long. I do not think announcement will change the reality on ground
 
 Businessman: Kolar area should be developed into a planned township. It needs better connectivity to airport and railway station. 
 
 
