PUNE: The Union urban development department’s stress on decentralizing and   has not been fully realized in practice because of discrepancies and inadequacies in the financial status of civic bodies.

 Pune’s financing is not keeping pace with the demand for infrastructure and services and the civic body is unable to cope with the pressure.
 
 Rajiv Gauba, the Union urban development department secretary, in a recent statement said a sense of healthy competition was being promoted among cities and towns in the country to focus their attention on improving the governance and infrastructure availability. He said more than providing funds to state and city governments, the ministry of urban development under the   government was according priority to incentivizing implementation of reforms having a far-reaching impact on governance and service delivery.
 
 “Cities can’t be run and managed from state capitals and secretariats. They should be made to stand on their own for improving performance, responsibility and accountability,” Gauba said.
 
 The civic authorities are not very enthusiastic, though. The civic administration will require Rs25,000 crore to execute the Development Plan (DP) in the old city areas. This DP will be for 20 years (2007-2027).
 
 “The total provision in the   annual budget has worked out to Rs3,570.96 crore over a period of 10 years. This implies that every year a provision of Rs357.96 crore has to be made in the PMC budget to meet the cost of acquisition and development of amenities proposed in the DP. Considering this, the budget must be around Rs10,000 crore, but it has just touched Rs5,912 crore this year,” said a senior civic official.
 
 “Decentralization is sometimes called devolution when political and financial power is transferred from higher to lower levels of government. Some countries pursue decentralization and instead focus on improved public services and economic infrastructure to sustain growth and inward investment,” states a World Cities Report by UN Habitat. 
 
