KOCHI: For a city not conversant with concert culture booming in major cities, the music performances in various genres hosted by Biennale were treasures to cherish. In the process the organizers discovered that there is massive audience for such programmes in Kochi.

 The series was kicked off by  's electronic music performance in December.
 
 Later on the city witnessed programmes by folkmusic group Karinthalakkoot tam, rock band Menwhopause, swing music band Zia & the Swing Mates to name a few. A concert by fusion rock band   after the closing ceremony at   on March 29 will round up a musical week that fea tures a range of styles that began with ghazals by Smri ti Minocha who crooned 'Love Lines' on Wednesday. “The concerts that Kochi Muziris Biennale-2016 wisely chose for the art festival was pivotal in creating a concert culture in a city like Kochi, where such events are rarely spotted. What our people are fed are often selections curated by media. They are not exposed to many varieties of compositions that are created world over. The KMB-2016 concerts are revolutionary, I'd say,“ said  , eminent south Indian music composer.
 
 Raj also observed that unlike other growing cities like Chennai, there is an absence of a music culture to which the local artists can cater to.
 
 “In Chennai, the   and the likes have weekly classical music per formances for which the locals lookout for,“ Raj added.
 
 Sachin Warrier, noted playback singer and composer in the Malayalam cinema industry was also of the opinion that inclusion of concerts in the KMB-2016 is indisputably a move in the right direction to build a concert ethos in the city.
 
 “It is through such concerts that up-and-coming artists as well as established ones get to infiltrate to the soul of a city. Though majority of our people are ardent music lovers, they are unaccustomed to live performing musicals and orchestra. Developing such a musically rich community is key in constructing the positivity of the city,“ Sachin said.
 
