GAYA: Taking a dig at Congress-SP alliance in UP, former Union minister   has said the SP has made the BJP’s task of making Congress-mukt (Congress-free) India easier.

 Shahnawaz, one of the BJP’s star campaigners in UP and Uttarakhand, said Congress used to contest all the 400-plus seats in UP. Post alliance, the party is contesting around 100 seats, which means the country's largest state was already 75% freed of Congress. The rest of the job will be done by the people, he said.
 
 Talking to TOI during his Gaya visit on Wednesday,   said he campaigned extensively in UP and Uttarakhand and was optimistic about his party's performance in the assembly elections in the two states. The BJP will comfortably win both the states, he claimed.
 
 Attributing the alliance in UP to  's political panic, Shahnawaz said the UP CM betrayed his nervousness by making the ‘unholy’ alliance. The BJP was contesting UP polls on the twin planks of governance and development, the areas where Akhilesh has miserably failed to deliver. 
 
 He also said he came to know about the imminent withdrawal of Gaya-Varanasi-Delhi flight on account of runway re-carpeting of the Varanasi airport. He has talked to the   CMD and the airline official has told him that all efforts would be made to retain air connectivity between Gaya and Delhi during the Varanasi runway repair.
 
 Shahnawaz, who is also a former civil aviation minister, regretted the delay in land acquisition for the expansion of the Gaya airport runway. The airport needs additional 100 acre of land to extend the runway length by another 500 metre. The existing length of the runway is 2,286 metres, which is not enough to accommodate wide-body planes like A-310 airbus with a passenger capacity of 220, including 20 first class seats. As of now, the Gaya airport runway can accommodate A-320 planes with a passenger capacity of 150-180.
 
 The Gaya airport director has informed Shahnawaz that chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh has on Thursday convened a meeting on the land acquisition issue.
 
 Shahnawaz inaugurated the Gaya airport in 2002. Besides connecting Buddhists world over, the airport is extensively used by Hindu who come here for performing ‘pindadan’ and state Muslims who take off for Haj in Mecca (Saudi Arabia) from the Gaya airport.
 
