Picture this: Wide open roads, lush greenery, hilly landscape, waterfalls and a breathtaking view. Sounds like all the ingredients that would make for a nature lover’s fantasy, right? Well, it’s all very real and actually, at a stone’s throw (or make that a short ride), away from Mumbai. It’s also what’s getting a bunch of   enthusiasts to go off-road   or   (in cyclist’s lingo) on their bikes, on weekends. Here’s where the trail takes them...

 
 
  
  
  
 
 This is not about your normal cycling around town. It’s tougher, throws up trickier terrain and can tone you more than anything else, as off-roading presents a challenge. Yet, several folks are taking to it like never before. Finance professional Rupesh Mainkar says, “Cycling on the road can get boring. Off-roading is so much better as there are more obstacles while riding. You learn more about yourself, too — how far you can go, your endurance levels and skill set. You also get closer to nature while doing so and it’s a lot of fun!” The cyclists often have no set plan when they start out. “We use either an app or simply take out a map and look for a different trail. Last Sunday, we went to  . Here, there are no proper roads except a walking path for adivasis. The hilly area ahead of   is also apt for off-roading as it’s a complete cross country trail,” he says.
 Manish Gadia, a banker by profession, says there are several day-long trails one can go on around Mumbai. “One of these spots is Uttan. We load our cycles in a ferry at Gorai early morning, to get there. Other trails for cyclists are  ,   and the  , which is a scenic ride because you have a lake on one side and a forest on the other. We also make it a point to find newer trails, like we discovered one in Vasai, a coastal off-roading route. What about the danger of wild animals? “We haven’t encountered any and don’t venture out in banned areas,” he says and advises, “To be on the safe side, always go in groups and never ride after sunset or before sunrise.”
 Adventure sports enthusiast Varun Das says that little compares to the lure of the Western Ghats. “If you have a little more time, also head to Nasik as there are great trails just before the ghats and it’s just over an hour away from Mumbai.” He has also explored the Aarey route quite a few times. “The place has a tall hill and cyclists do what is called a ‘guesthouse trail here’. In addition, there are smaller 300-metre trails that can be explored,” he reveals.
 
 
 
  
  
 For those looking to get away from the din of the city, this fits right in. Goregaon resident Mandar Prabhumirashi, who has gone off-roading near Aarey, says, “More than the riding experience, this trail is about finding serenity. I started riding here last year and since then, I’ve been here at least 15 times. It’s so silent, you can just sit down and enjoy hearing the birds, and on a clear day, you get a great view of the other side of Mumbai, i.e. Powai.” Avid cyclist Vishal Gandhi adds, “The Kalamboli trail is also very peaceful. It’s surrounded by mist and vegetation and makes for a soul-searching experience.” 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 This kind of riding has its own risks. So, wear the right guards for the knee and elbow as well as a sturdy helmet. Says Manish, “You should choose a trail you are comfortable with. Off-roading is of three basic kinds: Cross country, which we call XC, Downhill or DH and Free riding, which is risky and involves tricky mountain terrain; we don’t have it in Mumbai. You also need to have the necessary permissions in place as you may need this for a few areas.” 
 The terrain also changes with the season. Says Rupesh, “During the monsoons at Kalamboli, the trail got slippery and it was also dangerous as we were riding on the edge of mountain. So, I’d advise anyone to first get a good bike and also hone up their riding skills as the trails get very tough. You have to constantly switch your position and use the brakes. Some trails also involve a heavy climb; so, you need to have a good endurance level. For example, Tungareshwar has a non-stop nine km uphill ride, followed by a superfast downhill trail.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 After all that pedal-pushing, it’s a good idea to get refreshed. On the Aarey cycle tour, take a break near the lake, where you can park your cycles and hop into a paddle boat. And if you are heading back from a ride on the outskirts of Mumbai, stop at the little dhabas and catch some hot chai and bhajiyas. 
 
 
 
 Off-roading provides a total workout as you use the core to balance and shift body weight, the upper body to lift the front wheel and the lower body to keep pedalling
 
 
 
