Kolhapur: The latest   in Bhudargad taluka of Kolhapur district has sent   from the area cowering for shelter, leaving behind farm work. 

 Two persons, including a local journalist and farmer, were killed in the bison attack in Akurde village on May 12. Since then, women and children are not venturing into the fields and there is a vigil in the area. 
 
 The Indian bison or gaur has been the cause of massive crop damage in Shahuwadi, Chandgad, Panhala, Ajara talukas in the district over the past few years. Considered among the native animals of Kolhapur district, the grassland where the gaurs once inhabited have come under sugar cane cultivation in these talukas. Therefore, the gaurs enter the fields in search of their food. 
 
 Namedev Kadav, a 60-year-old farmer from the village, says that sugar cane is the main source of income for his family. “It is only crop that gives assured income for the family. We have been facing gaur attacks since last fifteen years. Earlier, they would attack if we ventured into the jungle, but now the habitat has changed and forced them to come downhill,” he said. 
 
 He added, “The attack on Friday has created panic in all villages here. Farmers are scared to enter the fields fearing gaur attack as no one knows how to deal with the gaurs. Several requests to the officials to find a permanent solution to prevent such incidents have not been headed.” 
 
 Sagar Kininge said his Murkte village is just seven kilometres from the tehsil area and he has often seen gaurs cross road without causing any nuisance. “I regularly reach home after 8pm. These days, I am scared of a gaur attack and I have been making sure I reach home before dark,” he said. 
 
 Murkte village is located at the foothills of Bhudargad fort. Wildfires have destroyed grass on the hills and herds of gaurs are moving down to feed on sugarcane, villagers said. 
 
 “Farmers have tried various measures to prevent gaurs from entering farms. They burst firecrackers, installed bug lamps in field, raised watch towers to keep gaurs away. Local villagers have no idea how to deal with the animals,” Kininge said. 
 
 Disturbance in the animal migration corridors, rampant mining and land development projects in rural Kolhapur have led to man-animal conflicts in the district and claimed two lives and 3,917 instances of crop damage in the last fiscal.
 
 Kolhapur boasts of national parks, a tiger reserve and wild life sanctuaries. Out of its total geographic area of 7,620 sq km, around 139.11 sq km, which account for 19.35% of the total, are under forest cover. But human intervention in these forest areas has resulted in the man-animal conflicts in the district.
 
 The Indian bison is known to become very aggressive between May and October to protect their young ones. The animal is known to attack any person seen as posing a threat to its newborns. 
 
 
