ABU DHABI: On the eve of the biggest   race in the Middle East, the UAE's first-ever professional cycling team on Tuesday unveiled a new name, logo, team kit, and three new sponsors that includes a new co-title sponsor - the iconic international airline,  .

 The team, which last December was awarded the final license to compete on the   - the premier annual male elite road cycling tour, has undergone a transformation in recent months, and will now be known as  . It will ride under that banner for the first time at this week's  .
 
 The announcement that one of the most iconic brands in world sports is to extend its international sponsorship strategy into a professional cycling team for the first time, represents one of the most significant sponsorship deals in cycling's recent history.
 
 The support of the globally-renowned and most airline brand is a huge boost for both the team and professional cycling more broadly. Emirates is the world's largest international airline, and is known worldwide as one of the leading supporters of world-class sports events, teams and clubs and has enjoyed long-term, highly successful sponsorships in football, rugby, tennis, horseracing, golf, cricket and F1 and others.
 
 Sheikh Majid Al Mualla, Divisional Senior Vice President, Commercial Operations Centre for Emirates, said: "This is our first foray into supporting a professional international cycling team, and there is no better place to do it than our home of the UAE. We believe that through our support of UAE Team Emirates over the next four years we will help bring the UAE to the world stage of cycling. Emirates aims to create more meaningful connections with cycling fans around the world, and we hope that the pro-cycling team will inspire continued development of the sport in the UAE."
 
 The announcement was made at a specially-convened media event in the UAE capital Abu Dhabi, which also saw the team confirm two further new sponsors - ADS Securities and International Golden Group (IGG). Abu Dhabi based international financial services company, ADS Securities, is a leading forex, bullion and online trading firm.
 
 UAE Team Emirates President,  , was thrilled to have been able to announce three major new sponsors in such a short period of time since the team's own unveiling just over a month ago. "The commercial interest in this team has been so exciting, and it is a huge honour to have attracted three such impressive organisations as Emirates, ADS Securities and IGG to join our new family," said Al Dhaheri.
 
 "My thanks go to the management teams at all three companies, but of course I'd like to thank in particular our new co-title sponsor Emirates. To announce a partnership with such an iconic and experienced brand in world sports is a major milestone for the team and I believe it is one of the best partnerships in the history of cycling.
 
 Continuing in his previous role is UAE Team Emirates General Manager - Italian cycling legend Giuseppe Saronni. Saronni has been managing professional cycling teams since 1991, only one year after having ended a glittering career as a cyclist in which he collected 205 victories, including twice winning the iconic Maglia Rosa (Pink Jersey) at the Giro d'Italia and beating Greg LeMond to win the World Cycling Championship in 1982.
 
 Saronni has steered successive professional teams to glory on the road, including four World Champions who have raced for his teams wearing the famous Rainbow Jersey, and wins at many of the most prestigious races in the world including the Giro d' Italia, Milan-San Remo, Liege-Bastogne-Liege, the Tour of Flanders, Paris-Roubaix, the Amstel Gold Race, and the Giro di Lombardia.
 
 Well-known cyclists to have raced in Saronni's teams include Maurizio Fondriest, Jan Svorada, Pavel Tonkov, Gilberto Simoni, Michele Scarponi, and Damiano Cunego. Now under the new UAE Team Emirates banner, Saronni is hoping to steer a new generation to success over the coming years.
 
 "My passion is for building a true family of riders who come together, work hard as a team, and strive towards a common goal. Over the years we have built a great tradition and with UAE Team Emirates I believe we have a great opportunity to do that once again," said Saronni.
 
 "We have an exciting squad that includes a number of really promising young riders. Our 26 riders will compete in all forms of racing this year, with a strong mix of GC specialists, some exciting Classics riders, good climbers and fast sprinters. We have a really exciting future, and I couldn't be more happy for this season and beyond." 
 
 UAE Team Emirates' first race under the new team banner is the Abu Dhabi Tour - from February 23 to 26. Its team of eight for the race is Diego Ulissi, Ben Swift, Manuele Mori, Louis Meintjes, Andrea Guardini, Kristijan Durasek, Rui Alberto Faria Da Costa and Simone Consonni.
 
 
 
 
 
