BHOPAL: The   tourism department has claimed that inflow of tourists have doubled this year as compared to last year. This year, 15.05 crore tourists, including 3.63 lakh foreigners, visited the state. Last year tourist arrivals to the state was around 7.5 crore. The department said that the inflow has increased because of a slew of initiatives taken by the government to promote the state as a preferred destination.

 "We were expecting this growth in 2017 as we had taken many initiatives to increase the inflow," Madhya Pradesh State Tourism Development Corporation MD   said. The inflow would continue to rise as there are multiple initiatives in the pipeline, he added. “State Tourism Policy-2016 has been implemented to attract private players/investors in tourism sector in Madhya Pradesh under which number of tourism projects has been increased and the provision of capital subsidy has been made applicable for the entire country”, Rao said. 
 
 Rao said that subsidy amounting to about Rs 24 crore has been provided to 19 units in one single year. “The well-conceived publicity by Madhya Pradesh tourism has attracted not only domestic but also international tourists to the state. “The footfalls of tourists are constantly increasing, and the number of tourists to the state has gone up by three times in the last seven years. The number of national and international tourists has almost doubled during the period,” he added.
 
 Talking about new initiatives, Rao said, “We are taking many steps to improve the infrastructure, bringing all stakeholders on board and pursuing the goal of sustainable tourism. Moreover, third Jal   will be organized at   from October 15, 2017 to January 2, 2018. Madhya Pradesh is centrally located and it offers heritage sites, wildlife, nature, religious destinations and huge water bodies and we have also launched water-based tourism activities, and foreign tourists have taken a keen interest in visiting the state," Rao said.
 
 Madhya Pradesh also has three of  's World Heritage sites: Bhimbetka, Sanchi and the 10th century Khajuraho temples where most of the tourists, both national and international, come flocking. Besides Orchha, Pachmarhi is another site that tourists love to visit.
 
