Porvorim: Opposition members staged a walk-out during ‘Question Hour’ on Monday after their demand to set up a House committee to examine projects approved by the Investment Promotion Board (IPB) was not granted. Alleging a scam in IPB approved projects, the opposition led by Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar insisted that a house committee be constituted. Ponda MLA Ravi Naik who tabled the question on IPB, said there was no transparency in sanctioning projects. “The whole thing appears to be a scam,” alleged Naik.  Earlier, the House witnessed a ruckus over the IPB issue when the opposition questioned various aspects related to the Board. Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco rushed into the well of the House when it appeared that there was no chance their demand would be allowed.  Kavlekar, Margao MLA Digambar Kamat, Taleigao MLA Jennifer Monserrate and Tivim MLA Nikanth Halarnkar joined the discussion, while speaker Pramod Sawant urged opposition members to remain quiet. Responding to queries by the opposition, chief minister Manohar Parrikar said that of the 151 projects approved by the IPB, around 80 projects are in the final stages of completion, no progress was made on eight to 10 projects and they are as good as closed, whereas 12 projects were referred to the satellite consultant for review. “Projects with inadequate information will be examined by the project consultant,” said Parrikar, adding that he would give information on any project sought by a member. Parrikar clarified that “IPB approvals are provisional and granted from an investment angle only”.  Tivim MLA questioned how a 600-room hotel project at Assonora was permitted in orchard land? Parrikar clarified that the project in question was not approved by the IPB.  Addressing a press conference after opposition members walked out of the House, senior Congress member Pratapsingh Rane said, “The IPB Act should be scrapped so that it doesn’t overrule all other Acts.” Lourenco said, “The RP is not in place. The government is hiding projects given to the satellite consultant for review. Parrikar has not revealed the names of those projects.” 