PANAJI: The 23rd Classical Dance Festival, which saw young dancers from across India taking active part in different classical dance forms, concluded at Shree Mahalsa Sausthan, Mardol-Goa, recently.
 
 Goan kathak dancers — Varada Bedekar, Prerna Palekar, Arpita Shirodkar and Tejaswini Loundo — under the guidance of Shama Bhate from Pune, enthralled the crowd on the opening day in a group choreography of kathak, which included numbers like thaat, aamad, paran, parmelu, bol baant ki tihai and footwork. Kajari by Prabha Atre for abhinay dwelt upon abhisarika nayika. Music by vocalist Vikrant Naik, Amar Mopkar, Swapnil Mandrekar (tabla), Prasad Gawas (harmonium) Sonik Velingkar (flute) and recitation by Shama Bhate complemented the performance. 
 
 Bharatanatyam dancer Neha Bhatnagar from New Delhi, a disciple of Saroja and Rama Vaidyanathan, won appreciation for her dynamic movements. Nattuvangam by  , vocal by K Venkatesh, flute by Rajat Prasanna and mridang by Thanjavur R Kesavan were of customary finesse during her performance.
 
 Kuchipudi exponent T Reddi Lakshmi, disciple of Jayarama Rao, was a pleasure to the eyes on the second day of the three-day festival.Her performance, choreographed by her guru, Rao, displayed her skills on edges of a brass plate and alternatively on the floor.
 
 Maitreyee Pahari’s artists of Lok Chhanda Cultural Unit presented Mayurbhanja chhau and kathak. Unlike others, they performed to recorded music. 
 
 The third and final evening was witness to Rajendra Gangani’s disciple Deepti Gupta’s steller performance in Jaipur gharana style of kathak. 
 
  (padhant and pakhawaj), Mahendra Parihar (vocal), Mayank Bedekar (tabla) and Nafeej (sarangi) provided Deepti with adequate support.
 
 Odissi dancer Arushi Mudgal, trained under her aunt Madhavi Mudgal and also  , performed with quietitude. Arushi chose to strictly follow Kelucharan’s choreographed numbers which were delightful and evoked rasa, the flavour. Musicians to accompany her were, vocalist Sawani Mudgal (Arushi’s sister),   (pakhawaj), Ravinder (flute) and Yar Mohammed (sitar).
 
 
