LUDHIANA: Khanna police has booked a man for turning his niece into an  . The uncle, who is in his thirties, had also introduced her to his friends, who, too, violated her taking advantage of her addiction.

 The uncle was booked for rape along with five others after police produced the victim before a court, where she narrated her story, on Saturday.
 
 Police said on February 5, father of the 17-year-old girl, who lives in Khanna, had lodged a missing report after he failed to trace her. When the victim returned home a few days later, she made startling disclosures.
 
 Cops said the victim told investigators that two years ago, her uncle -father's younger brother who is around 35 years old and unemployed -hooked her to  , as he himself was an addict. She added that he would rape her when she asked for drugs.
 
 “The victim said later her uncle introduced her to his friends, who would also rape her when she asked for drugs from them,“ a cop added.
 
 Later, she met  , a resident of Khamano, on Ludhiana-Chandigarh road, on a social networking site, who promised to marry her and she went with him in the first week of February. He was also known to her uncle's friends. Cops said that Jarnail, along with his friends, raped her after taking her to many cities, including Chandigarh. They added that after two to three days, they left her with a woman who ran a prostitution racket in Samrala.
 
 Police sources said the girl somehow managed to escape from the clutches of the woman and reached home. She told her parents about the chain of events and they informed the police. Khanna (City) SHO Gurmail Singh said six accused, including victim's uncle, have been booked and raids were being conducted to nab them. He said medical examination of the victim was done at civil hospital.
 
 The victim's family had to pull her out of studies in Class XI after they came to know about her addiction. They even got her admitted to a de-addiction centre, but after withdrawal symptoms she started creating trouble and ran away with Jarnail. Police said they have arrested one of the accused.
 
