AJMER: Rajasthan Public Service Commission ( ) has geared up to conduct senior teachers’ examination 2016 in two sessions in which the second session will be online in June to get accuracy and transparency in the examination process. The first phase examination of General Knowledge for all candidates will be on April 26 and then on May 1.

 Looking at the large number of candidates appearing for this examination in different subjects, the commission has introduced the online mode of examination for future selection process. The examination for 1,269 posts for different subjects of senior teachers in government schools for which nearly 9 lakh candidates has applied. 
 
 RPSC is introducing changes in the examination pattern with declaring result of different examinations before time as well as building confidence in the candidates appearing for such examination. The main examination for RPSC is to select senior teachers in government schools and for that General Knowledge examination for the candidates applied for Hindi, Sanskrit, Urdu have to appear for the first test on April 26 and candidates applied for Social Science, Science, English and   will appear for the same common test of General Knowledge on May 1.
 
 If the candidate is appearing for two posts of different subjects, then he has to give only once the exam of general knowledge. The second phase of examination will be in June. The commission also wanted to avoid the paper leak incidents in such examination and in 2014-15, there was an incident of alleged paper leak and RPSC had to face the consequences.
 
 According to officials, the online examination will help the commission for better and transparent examination system because in the subject of social science only 3.37 lakh candidates has applied. The highest number of posts this time is in Sanskrit in which government wanted to depute 2,295 teachers in government schools where as there are more than one and a half thousands posts for social science teachers.
 
