NAGPUR: City police seem to be in no hurry to probe the shocking rape case of 12-year-old inmate of a private orphanage, located behind Chokhamela hostel at  . The survivor had claimed being exploited by a fellow male inmate on the premises for three years. It was after some delay that the cops recently rounded up the accused, a student of Standard XII, for questioning.

 The medical examination conducted following an order of   (CWC) is learnt to have confirmed sexual exploitation of the girl earlier this week. The CWC, which heard the case earlier, ensured the survivor and her fellow inmates from the orphanage were retained at government shelter home. Apart from the survivor, three minor girls and two boys were rescued from the orphanage by a joint action initiated by district child protection officer and police following the complaint.
 
 The case was registered last week after the survivor, a student of Standard V, narrated her plight before school teacher who alerted the cops. Following the intervention of the district child protection officer, an offence of rape was registered at Bajaj Nagar police station. The cops had initially claimed the survivor refused to give consent for medical examination. However, CWC made the survivor undergo a medical examination. 
 
 Though there is possibility of exploitations, no medical examinations of three other rescued girls has been conducted till date. District child protection officer Mushtaq Pathan said the orphanage did not have the mandatory licence under the Section 41 of the Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act. “We have already written to the police for action. It is also yet to produce all details of inmates,” he said. Pathan also claimed operating an orphanage without procuring licence under the JJ Act attracted punitive measures. 
 
 It has also come to fore that inmates were also given surname of one of the persons managing the premises who had a licence issued a few years ago but not yet renewed. Sources from police claimed the orphanage authority has been claiming the survivor to be mentally disturbed and hence projecting the complaint as a trivial matter. 
 
 Senior PI Sudhir Nandanvar of Bajaj Nagar stated action was now being initiated on rape case and other violations of the orphanage would be looked into later.
 
