Panaji: A day after a massive fire gutted the Kadamba Transport Corporation ( ) bus   at Panaji, the directorate of fire and emergency services (DFES) found that except for a restaurant on the first floor, none of the commercial shops had its permission to operate.

 An inspection was carried out by a DFES team on Tuesday evening, during which fire safety officials found that every shop and establishment at the KTC complex lacked firefighting equipment.
 
 “Other than Kamat hotel and another shop, no other outlet had the NOC from the fire department,” assistant divisional officer for Panaji, Ajit Kamat, said. “They don’t even seem to know that they have to apply and renew their licences.”
 
 Fire department sources also found that most shops had inverter batteries which were stored without necessary precautions. Among the shops that failed to get the required approvals from the fire department was a branch of the Goa State Cooperative Bank.
 
 Officials questioned how the corporation of the city of Panaji had issued trade licenses to the 48 shops without verifying if the DFES had given the necessary permissions.
 
 “Rules are in place but the licensing authority that gives licenses don’t follow it. We conduct the audit and we give recommendations, but who will implement that? They should check if the fire NOC is obtained,” DFES director Ashok Menon said.
 
 Sources also confirmed that KTC had submitted a building plan copy to the DFES. “We got a copy of the plan but it is not signed or approved. The existing structure is quite different from what the plan shows,” a source said.
 
 A major fire broke out at the   stand around 6am in the building that houses the RTO office. Old files and records were destroyed in the fire, though a final estimate is yet to be arrived at.
 
 The blaze erupted at Presidential Supermarket on the ground floor of the Panaji bus stand, and then spread towards the RTO office. Presidential Supermarket was operating without clearance from the DFES, sources said.
 
 “We have written to the RTO and KTC to give us an estimate of their loss,” an official said.
 
 Of the 48 stores that operate at the KTC complex, 14 shops were damaged in the fire that required over four hours to be doused.
 
 Fire department officials rued that they lacked the power to clamp down on structures and buildings that fail to adhere to fire safety norms.
 
 “Fire services has no power to seal a building. Systems need to be in place so that we can take action,” Menon said.
 
 
