Nagpur: Kids from Centre Point School, Wardhaman Nagar seemed pumped up with excitement on their visit to The Times of India office, Dharampeth on Tuesday. The editorial board of the   page was accompanied by their parents, coordinator teacher Archana Ukey and principal Sumathi Venugopalan. Children were awarded certificates for being associated with the School Buzz initiative which is in its sixth year now.

 After a quick exchange of thoughts about the knowledge acquired throughout the buzz activity, students toured the office and interacted with the staffers to know different processes in the making of a newspaper varying from reporting and editing to page making. Apart from children, parents too were keen to understand the technical know-hows.
 
 School Buzz makes the students think “out of the box” exclaimed the principal. She said, “The whole package can be considered as wholesome learning as children start preparing themselves mentally before TOI visits the school. During the event, they work collectively and discover new things and get a sense of satisfaction after their efforts are compiled and published for the city to read.”
 
 According to her, kids do not believe things said to them orally and such an exposure helps them have a better perception in life.
 
 Ukey agreed and added, “I have been a coordinator for Buzz since four years and I appreciate the concept. It is different from the common extra-curricular activities and improves the child’s personality.”
 
 Ishika Kalra from class X showed interest in taking up journalism as a career option. “It has helped me enhance my vocabulary and writing style and I feel lucky to be among the few people representing school on city level.”
 
 Parent Iliyas Murtuzapurwala said he was overwhelmed to read the strong opinions of his daughter Ruquiya, also Ishika’s mother noticed her child’s self-confidence boost. 
 
 Walking in the shoes of journalists, children discussed their experience. Aaditya Kiratkar from std X said, “It was amazing to learnt that a single debatable topic can invite a wide range opinions and you need to respect everyone’s point of view.”
 
 Kshitij Agarkar and Sakshi Singh from class X said that scooping out information from people is challenging and one need to learn some tactics to make them comfortable so that interviewees are vocal about their opinions. On the contrary, Ruquiya faced a situation where her class fellows did not stop pouring their hearts out which made her realize that listening and analysis plays an integral part to draft a report. She later cherry picked the best points for her write up. The activity helped them nurture their presentation and communication skills, said kids unanimously.
 
 Shruti Jham’s mother, Heena said that Buzz is a great platform where students can explore their capabilities and kindle their thought process.
 
 
