Born to celebrated classical singer Deenanath Mangeshkar and Shevanti Mangeshkar in 1929, Lata 
  started her career as a playback singer in   movies in 1942 which spanned for over seven decades. India's nightingale,  's melodious voice binds people of different religions together across the world. While there is plenty of literature available on her life and career, little is known about her life on the international stage--and that's exactly the basis of this book.
 
 As the name suggests,   documents Lata’s world tours which started in 1975 with a simple proposal of hosting musical events of the singing sensation in America. While Lata was initially a little sceptical of this idea, it was yesteryear's famed singer   who guided and encouraged her. The rest, as they say, is history as these shows were a huge hit among her South Asian fans settled abroad. The shows continued for 12 years, till she turned 70 in 1998 and covered many countries including the US and Canada. In the book  , who was the co-promoter and co-organizer of Lata Mangeshkar’s international tours during this period, takes the readers on a journey back in time with Lata and the top male playback singers, namely, Mukesh (who tragically died during a Detroit tour in 1976),  , and  . While the book journals the details of the musical tours, the obstacles, how the international tours were a success, Lata’s keen observation and eye for details and her sheer enthusiasm, it also gives the readers a glimpse of the person that the legendary singer is. The book, co-authored by Lata Mangeshkar’s niece  , also reveals some interesting facts about Lata--for instance, she was introduced to casinos in Las Vegas by Mukesh and her favourite casino is Belagio, or that Lata loved photography and took many pictures!
  
 On Stage With Lata is filled with anecdotes about the bond she shared with the legendary Mukesh and Kishore, which makes it an interesting read. Though the logistical details of some tours make the narration a bit dragged at places, the exclusive pictures taken during the tours act as an icing on the cake. On Stage with Lata is an important documentation of the work-life of the legendary singer and decodes what makes her such a great artist in the history of music. 
 
 
