KOLKATA: The   brigade took to the state's militant culture to match the Left aggression on the streets in a bid to emerge as a key player in state politics. BJP activists on Thursday tasted the state's ire and went on a counter-offensive against the police, sending out signals that they were no outsiders to the state's political narrative.

 BJP heavyweights led the rallies from three main points of the city and later broke into several small groups to reach out to the state police headquarters at Lalbazar. Some of the activists allegedly lobbed bombs at the police and vented their anger by setting police jeeps on fire, prompting chief minister   to react from New Delhi. The BJP showdown on the city streets far outpaced its representation in the assembly compared to the other opposition parties -Left and Congress.
 
 Later in the evening, state BJP leader Shamik Bhattacharya gave a twist to the tale by calling the attack on BJP activists a joint exercise by police and the ruling party . “We are dismayed with the manner the ruling Trinamool tried to stifle the dissenting voice. We have no problems with the police deploying water cannons, bursting tear gas shells or taking to lathicharge to diffuse the agitating mob. What is new is that at several points in the city such as Phears Lane the police followed a section of `peace loving' people with stones and rods in their hands. They didn't hesitate to attack BJP supporters taking first aid at our party office,“ Bhattacharya said. A BJP delegation also called on West Bengal Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi and demanded a judicial inquiry into the “police excess“. Senior leaders arrested refused bail and will be produced in court on Friday after spending a night in lock-up.
 
 The purpose of the violent showdown became all too apparent when BJP leaders after courting arrest ferreted out a list of the injured to match the Left's number of victims. “ A total 134 of our supporters have registered themselves for treatment at the Medical College and Hospital. Two among the injured had to be shifted to   with critical injuries. The worst part is the unprovoked attack on women,“ Bhattacharya said while senior BJP leaders Rahul Sinha, Rupa Ganguly and Locket Chatterjee nursed their injuries. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh and the party's Bengal minder   also courted arrest.
 
 Unlike earlier when BJP was known in the city as the party of traders, activists from all over Bengal played cat and mouse with the police trying to reach Lalbazar at least thrice in the day . Their smart moves kept the police brass busy making changes to their deployment pattern. Senior policemen apprehensive of flash-strikes started a search operation on vehicles coming to the state secretariat at Nabanna. “BJP is now taking the CPM route. CPM did the other day and now it is BJP .See (showing video grabs in the phone) all the police jeeps are burning ... all the government properties are burning. Is this a democratic movement? It is a movement of either harmads or `unmads' (insane). A democratic movement is organised with people. They are putting fire ...they are beating up women ...they didn't spare even women cops,“ chief minister Mamata Banerjee said.
 
 Taking the cue, joint CP (headquarters).Supratim Sarkar said: “A vehicle belonging to an OC was set on fire. Damages were carried out at the Central Metro station. In all, we will be filing four separate cases at Burrabazar, Hare Street, Bowbazar and Jorasanko. We will decide how many will be slapped non-bailable charges out of the total 141 detained.“
 
