BENGALURU: Days after the   referred to a diary containing details of alleged payoffs to the   high command, the state Congress alleged on Saturday that a diary , reportedly seized from BJP MLC Leher Singh Sisoriya, had information of Rs 391.5 crore allegedly paid to BJP leaders and others.

 Of the total payments allegedly made when the saffron party was in power in Karnataka, Rs 154 crore has been marked against entries Namo and AS.
 
 Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president Dinesh Gundu Rao, who released details of the diary to the media in Bengaluru on Saturday , said the signature on the pages of the document bore a similarity to that of Sisoriya, who was the BJP tre asurer when BS Yeddyurappa was chief minister. “The   by the income-tax department during raids conducted on November 9, 2013,“ Rao said.
 
 “The allegations made in this diary are of the same nature as those that have been levelled against the Congress government. I don't know who Namo or AS is. These are similar to the entries of RG and SG found in the diary that was allegedly seized from Govindaraj. So, will the BJP seek resignation from its national leaders on moral grounds?“ asked Rao, who was accompanied by Congress MLCs VS Ugrappa, HM Revanna, Ivan D'Souza and Sharanappa Mattur. Dinesh Gundu Rao's allegations come two days after the entries of a diary, purportedly belonging to Congress MLC K Govindaraj, cropped up in the public domain. The diary has details of alleged payoffs by Karnataka ministers to the party high command.
 
 Abbreviations such as CMO+RA, JS, SK, SR, RR, SR, RR+KSE, DVS+PS among others are listed under the heading `received'. Another column titled `paid' contains short forms such as AS, BSY, Namo, SS, SK, MD Rao, DP , party fund, media (PTV), etc. In the diary , the amount of money received by the respective parties is Rs 391.5 crore, tallies with the amount of money paid.
 
 Sisoriya said, “Firstly, the signature in the diary says `Leher'. I never sign like that.I always sign as `Lahar'.When I was BJP treasurer, Amit Shah and P Muralidhar Rao weren't part of the national leadership.“
 
 The Congress asked for an impartial probe by a sitting SC judge into the allegations.“Whether it's the Leher Singh diary , the Sahara-Birla diary or the one supposedly seized from Govindraj, let there be a probe from a sitting judge. If charges against our leaders are proved, we will face the consequences.Will the BJP do the same?“ asked the Congress leaders.
 
 
