AGARTALA/ITANAGAR:   and   in the last one month have caused   in Tripura.   here said on Tuesday the   could be to the tune of Rs 50 crore. 

 Rough estimates show the damage to crops ready for harvest is around Rs 28 crore. Primary estimates of the state government reveal crops on over 28,000 hectare of land have suffered irreparable damage from rainfall and thunder squalls. 
 
 Agriculture minister Aghore Debbarma said pre-monsoon rain and a series of Nor'westers caused untold damage to Sepahijala, Gomati and south Tripura districts while other districts were relatively less affected. Jhum cultivation also suffered damages. 
 
 "The situation has worsened with insurance companies dragging their feet on paying insurance money for crop loss under the much-hyped 'Prime Minister's Fasal Bima Yojana'," alleged Debbarma. 
 
 Currently, 8,000 tribals are exclusively dependent on shifting cultivation and they live on elevated bamboo houses in the hill areas. "We had sent a detailed project report to the Centre in 2015-2016 for funds to build houses for 'jhumias' and the Centre had sanctioned only Rs 75,000 for each house. This amount was inadequate and we have asked for assistance of at least Rs 1.30 lakh per house. We are waiting for the sum to be sanctioned."
 
 The minister added that power distribution was also badly hampered by the rain. The supply was cut off in many areas. Besides, the rain also damaged a large number of dwelling units, roads and buildings as well as non-timber forest produce.
 
 Incessant rain for the last one week has left a trail of destruction in Lower Dibang Valley in Arunachal Pradesh and cut off many areas from the rest of the region. A report from Dambuk ADC Atul Tayeng said communication on the Dambuk-Roing-Pasighat and Dambuk-Bizari-Paglam roads snapped for about a week. To make things worse, the log bridge at 14 Kilo on the Dambuk-Bizari Road was washed away by heavy floods on Monday.
 
 The Dibang River has eroded large swathes of land in Bomzir and Bizari while rice fields in the Dambuk area are being eroded at an alarming rate, the report said. "The venue of the Orange Festival is also in danger of erosion by the river," Tayeng said, adding that ration stock would not last long if road communication is not restored soon.
 
 He suggested sorties by helicopters to provide relief for the people of Dambuk and Paglam. The district administration, monitoring the situation, has sent a message to the authorities concerned in this regard, the report added. 
 
 
