GURUGRAM: By common consent, the world’s most progressive leader is a man ( , of Canada), which just goes to show that   isn’t a preserve of women. Men, too, can be a force for good for women, if only they’d realise it.

 International Women’s Day may have come and gone, but the conversation about women and their place in society will always remain relevant. On Saturday, Quill & Canvas, the   institution that’s a bookshop and art gallery rolled into one, hosted a panel discussion titled, ‘Women: How far have we come and where do we want to go from here?’ 
 
 It was a dialogue that covered the past, present and future, with panellists holding forth on women’s roles over the centuries – how they have been perceived, and the patriarchy they have confronted and conquered – the challenges of the present day, and how the young envision the future. It made for an enlightening few hours. 
 
 There was Anusha Celly, 15, who felt strongly about the stigma around menstruation. “Thirty percent of girls my age have to skip school because of their periods. They’re paying the price of being a woman,” she said, adding that social media has an important role to play in helping tackle the regressive attitudes that so often hold young women back, and a society that (as she so candidly put it) benefits from a woman’s low self-esteem.
 
 Meanwhile, Sahana Ahmed, a life skills trainer, spoke poignantly and powerfully about the lot of Muslim women. It is only in Islam, she shared, that polygamy has survived. “The only solution is education,” Ahmed said. “I’m the first girl from my father’s side to graduate from college. It’s a strange situation to be in but it gives me a unique perspective.”
 
 Women, insisted Ahmed, have to support each other, and she gave the example of her mother-in-law, who encouraged her to return to work after she had taken a sabbatical. “Reform has to come from within the community, and we can start by educating women.”
 
 Conversely, being surrounded by strong women helps men develop an empathy for the female condition, and Debeshi Gooptu, a former journalist turned author, gave the example of Ram Mohan Roy, the reformer who founded the   (which grew into the Brahmo Samaj movement). 
 
 Still, positive strides have been accompanied by a stubborn – and strident – insistence on the status quo. But media professional and trainer Meenakshi Sharma felt there has been too much focus on how wronged women have been, and too little on their rights. “Feminism had to meander a bit before it found the right path,” she said.
 
 While there was a desire to not make this out to be a battle between the sexes, the tendency to see feminism only through an urban lens was critiqued. Rural women, too, have dreams and ambitions – even if they’re poles apart from the aspirations of those who reside in metros.
 
 Clearly, there are many versions of feminism out there. “There are different definitions, and I think the conversation is becoming too toxic. We should keep the gatekeepers out,” remarked Aditi Datta, and that’s as constructive a thought to live by in 2017. There are, after all, as many experiences as there are women, and it helps to embrace them all.
 
 
