GURUGRAM: Unable to convince some   living along Badshapur   in Khandsa village to exchange their   to widen the drain,   is now planning to use the emergency   to   the required land to complete the work before monsoons. Huda is in a race against time to complete the drain   project to avoid a repeat of last year’s massive jam at Hero Honda Chowk, which followed heavy rains and waterlogging. The 48-hour-gridlock had dented Gurgaon’s brand image, and the state government, which faced all-round criticism, is not willing to take any chance. The project is being monitored by the chief secretary.

 As reported by TOI on March 31, the project has already been downsized by Huda from the initial 30m width (10m on either side to add to the existing 10m wide channel) to just 10m increase on one side (making it 20m in total), mainly due to reluctance of people living along the drain to exchange their land.
 
 Huda had planned to acquire around 5 acres by shifting around 80 houses in Khandsa to widen the part of the drain that passes through the village. Of the 80 houses, 35 are on one side of the drain, while the remaining 45 lie on the other side.
 
 Huda is now focusing on widening the drain on only one side, for which, 35 families will have to give up their land. Till now, only 30 of these have agreed to Huda’s offer. The remaining five are reluctant.
 
 “We accepted all their demands and offered free land in exchange, and compensation for building homes. Despite all these, some people are still not coming on board. We don’t want to cause inconvenience to anyone, but if left with no choice, we will have to use the emergency land acquisition clause for the city’s betterment,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav, adding they made a last attempt to convince villagers on Saturday, but the latter declined.
 
 A high level meeting is scheduled for Monday in Chandigarh where Huda is likely to propose the use of the emergency clause. “Focus is on starting the drain widening work at the earliest to increase the carrying capacity of Badshapur drain,” said the official.
 
 As per the special land exchange scheme approved by chief minister   in the first week of March, villagers whose houses need to be removed for the work are to get free land of equivalent size in Sector 37C, as well as compensation for the structures demolished.
 
 The 39.96km long and 30m wide Badshapur drain, which starts from Ghata and empties into Najafgarh drain, narrows down to 10m at Khandsa, reducing its carrying capacity from 1,200 cusec to just 500 cusec. In certain areas in Khandsa, the drain becomes as narrow as 4-5m, preventing water, which flows into the drain from all parts of the city, to pass through at expected pace, causing waterlogging.
 
 
