PUNE: The city received another spell of rain around 6pm and 8:30pm on Saturday, giving relief from the increasingly humid conditions since the beginning of the weekend. 

 According to the   (IMD), between 8.30am and 8.30pm, the city received 1.9mm rain.
 
 The day remained uncomfortably humid, following pre-monsoon showers on Friday evening. The humidity level reached a muggy 53% on Saturday morning. "Sporadic showers tend to increase the humidity, which, combined with high temperatures, results in an increase in uncomfortably sultry conditions," an IMD official said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the fire brigade received as many as 40 calls related to tree falling. Traffic jams were also reported in a few areas across the city.
 
 As per an  , the city is set to receive more rainfall on May 15, 18 and 19. The day temperature is expected to range between 39 degrees C and 37 degrees C during the next five to six days.
 
 Skymet   officials said that conditions have been favourable for pre-monsoon rains, adding that a trough, extending from North Maharashtra to Kerala, has been increasing moisture incursion over the city. They, however, added that the weather may go dry from Sunday, but possibility of one or two isolated spells of rain or thundershowers cannot be precluded.
 
 The city recorded around 1.7mm rainfall between 8.30am on Friday to 8.30am on Saturday. With evening showers on May 13, city's seasonal total went up to 3.8mm, as against the seasonal normal of 27.6mm.
 
 Pune's day temperature dipped to 39.6 degrees C on Saturday, from Friday's 41.1 degrees C. The night temperature is expected to go up to 25 degrees C in the next few days due to clouding. On Saturday, the city's minimum temperature was 23.6 degrees C, around 1.3 degrees above normal.
 
  Monsoon onset over 
 
  Andaman likely in 72 hours 
 
 As per the IMD, conditions are becoming favourable for a likely advance of southwest monsoon over parts of  , south Andaman Sea and Nicobar Islands during next the 72 hours, as against a normal date of May 20. Experts however said that the onset of monsoon over Andaman and Nicobar does not have any relation to the time of its arrival over Kerala, as its progress depends on various factors.
 
 
