There has been a huge increase in the value of bitcoin recently which had made many investors think how they too can invest in it. In the beginning of 2017, the price of one bitcoin was under $1,000. As of September 15, 2017, the price of bitcoin has reached $3056.08. 

 
 
 This has made investors curious on where and how to invest in  . There are various digital currency exchanges that allow buy and sell of bitcoins on internet. Here is information on few of them:
 
 
 
 
 Zebpay is India's first bitcoin company to launch simplest mobile Bitcoin wallet app that enables bitcoin transactions using mobile number. The company is headquartered in Singapore with IT office in Mumbai, Maharashtra and Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India. The company was founded by Mahin Gupta in late 2012 under the name Buysellbitco.in. Later it was rebranded to Zebpay in September 2014 adding two more partners - Saurabh Agrawal and Sandeep Goenka. Using Zebpay wallet app, users can buy, sell, store, spend bitcoin & recharge airtime using mobile number and a 4-digit pin. In September 2017, Zebpay crossed 1,000,000 downloads on Android and iOS stores combined.
 
 
 
 
 Unocoin is another leading bitcoin company in India that enables users to buy, sell, store, use and accept bitcoin. Unocoin was founded in July of 2013 in the town of Tumakuru, Karnataka. Later the company shifted its major operation to Bengaluru. Unocoin received its initial kickstart when renowned Bitcoin Investor Barry Silbert invested 250,000 USD in Unocoin making it the first bitcoin investment in the country and in three years the company has drawn more than 30 top investors from 5 countries. In September 2016, Unocoin had raised $1.5 million in a Pre Series-A round, the highest total raised for a digital currency venture in Indian history. Funding was sourced from well-known investors - Blume Ventures, ah! Ventures, Mumbai Angels, Boost VC, Digital Currency Group, FundersClub, Future Perfect Ventures, Huiyin Blockchain Ventures. The company claims to have over 1,30,000 customers. 
 
 
 
 
 Bitxoxo Bitcoins Pvt. Ltd was launched in July 2016. Based in Warangal, Telangana, Bitxoxo was incepted on 5th January, 2016 under Company Act 2013. Operating on a 24X7 basis, it also offers a distinctive customer service, through its unique chat support for users, apart from emails and phone calls. Bitxoxo is the only bitcoin exchange company that allows payment & withdrawals through IMPS. Apart from bitcoin trading, Bitxoxo is also involved in conducting seminars & workshops on Bitcoin in colleges, universities, and companies throughout the country, in an effort to enhance knowledge and generate awareness around its usage. In April 2017, the company also launched bitcoin Pre-paid Gift card. The company does not charges any fee. All of its services come with 0% Fees, allowing customers to purchase, sell, or even gift bitcoins without any hassle.
 
 
 
 Coinbase was founded in 2012 and is based in San Francisco. The company provides web and mobile digital currency services. The merchants and consumers can transact with new digital currencies like bitcoin, ethereum, and litecoin. The company enables buy and sell of digital currencies such as bitcoin, ether, and litecoin directly from Coinbase account without having to leave the app. This functionality is available in 32 countries.
 
