PUNE: The ministry of   has evolved a new reform matrix to enable cities like Pune go beyond the incremental approach of taking small steps towards implementing transformational reforms over the next three years for a turnaround in urban governance, planning and  . 

 The ministry had appointed a group of secretaries in the urban sector. 
 
 Its recommendations state that instead of an incremental approach, the time has come for ushering in transformational reforms in governance, planning and finance.
 
 The group insisted on moving to a "Trust and Verify Approach". 
 
 It stated that instead of the present practice of verifying first and approving later, trust needs to be reposed in citizens and approvals may be accorded first and to be verified later. 
 
 The "Trust and Verify" approach has been recommended in respect of permissions for building construction, change of title in municipal records (mutation) and birth and death registration, involving the largest number of physical interactions between city governments and citizens.
 
 The group quoting a study by   noted that over 90% of the land records in the country are unclear. 
 
 Land market distortions and unclear land titles are costing the country 1.3% of GDP per year. 
 
 The group recommended enactment of Land Titling Laws and their implementation in a specific timeframe.
 
 The total revenues of the municipal sector accounts for only 0.75% of the country's GDP as against 6% for  , 5% for Brazil and 4.5% for Poland. 
 
 The group recommended promoting municipal bonds for infrastructure projects.
 
 Its report stated that bureaucracy based on merit rather than seniority could add nearly a percentage point annually to the country's per capita GDP growth. 
 
 It also expressed concern over the shortage of qualified technical staff and managerial supervisors in ULBs preventing innovation. 
 
 The group recommended induction of professionals in city governments by encouraging lateral induction and filling top positions in cities (commissioners and heads of finance and revenue) through open competition.
 
 To incentivize implementation of these transformational reforms, the ministry of urban development has proposed to increase the Reform Incentive Fund from Rs 500 crore during 2017-18 to over Rs 3,000 crore per year over the next three years of implementation period. 
 
 Cities will be ranked on the basis of their performance under each reform category for providing reform incentive. Rs 400 crore was distributed during 2016-17 among those who pursued reforms indicated in AMRUT guidelines.
 
