KOLKATA: Modern India, promising to emerge as an economic giant, owed a lot to the Brahmo movement of the early 19th century, said   CEO Jawhar Sircar. 

 Sircar was delivering a lecture, ‘Brahmo Samaj—Impact on Society’ at the inauguration of the 187th Maghotsava at Sadharan   Mandir, which acted as the cradle of  , the stepping stone for modern India. Sircar also unveiled an exhibition of old paintings, lithographs and rare first editions of Rabindranath Tagore books, part of the collection of art restorer and connoisseur Ganesh Pratap Singh, at  .
 
 “The Brahmo movement’s single biggest contribution was the emancipation of women in general, their education in particular. It was a dark period. Education of women was unthinkable, blasphemy. Sisiter Nivedita had just opened a school for girls and was looking for students, knocking on every door. That was when Rammohan Roy and Debendranath Tagore took the most challenging task of educating girls. I am not a Bramho, but every Bengali is a Brahmo at the same time. What we are today is owing to the Brahmo movement,” said Sircar, adding Brahmo Samaj, as a religious entity, could not be measured by the number of followers it had, its impact being much greater.
 
 Brahmos took the movement forward by opening one girls’ school after another. Not only that, Sircar said, think of universal adult franchise. “It was not an import from Europe. Shibnath Shastri, another doyen of the movement, first wrote about it long before women in America began a fight to vote,” he added.
 
 The movement started in Kolkata on August 20, 1828, by Roy and Tagore as reformation of the prevailing Brahminism of the time, especially the Kulin practices. On January 23, 1830 or 11th Magh, the Adi Brahmo Samaj premises were inaugurated, the day still celebrated by Brahmos as Maghotsava. Art restorer and collector Ganesh Pratap Singh, who pieced together documents, paintings and lithographs of Bengal Renaissance, said, “Brahmo Samaj played an important role in shaping modern India.” His collection offers a glimpse of how Bengali society was at that time. 
 
 “In all fields of social reform, including abolition of caste and dowry systems and emancipation of women, Brahmo Samaj reflected Bengal Renaissance ideologies,” said Prof Sudin Chattopadhyay, another speaker.
 
 
