MUMBAI: Anil  , the coach of the national team, wanted to be part of the national selection committee. The former leg-spinner sought involvement as a selector with a vote, not merely as an advisor. And this has given rise to a debate: Should coaches be part of the selection committee?

 In their respective tenures in the past, former India coaches -  ,   and   - were all part of the selection panel as advisers, but without a vote. The coach and the captain could suggest appropriate candidates but if it came to a toss-up between two cricketers, the five-member selection panel would take the final call.
 
 With the Justice RM Lodha Committee recommending a three-member selection panel - based on its findings from Cricket Australia (CA) and the England and Wales Cricket Board ( ) - and the Committee of Administrators (CoA) demanding that the recommendations be implemented, Kumble found the need for a national coach to be on that panel of selectors.
 
 Cricket Australia (CA) and the ECB have their national coaches on the panel. Australia's national coach   and his England counterpart  , nevertheless, have had their share of troubles being part of the selection panel. While there could be a positive side to the coach being a selector - in terms of understanding horses for courses policy and voting in favour of the right player in right conditions against particular oppositions -there are also negatives that need to be considered.
 
 "If a player does the right thing and opens up with the coach about his weaknesses and shares his fears? Let's say a batsman approaches the coach and says 'I'm having a problem tackling googlies' or 'I'm struggling with the short delivery'. The coach works with the player but as a selector, he's bound to keep in mind what the player shared with him," says a cricketer-turned-administrator.
 
 Cricketers have faced such complications in the past and a prime example is  , who went on to compliment Kirsten for the hours of conversation they would have on the former opener's batting worries. "In such a scenario, the cricketer might just stop sharing his fears with the coach. That's a possible scenario and not a healthy one," he adds.
 
 Another case in point is whether the coach-cum-national selector has time to watch cricket across the length and breadth of the country given his hectic schedule with the national team. "It's the kind of issue that Bayliss had to deal with in England," says a former cricketer.
 
