PATNA: The   ruling on equal pay for equal work for home guards is not applicable in the case of Bihar, said principal secretary (home)   on Friday.

 “Punjab and West Bengal were parties in the Supreme Court case. The state government has moved the Patna high court pleading that the apex court order is not applicable in Bihar,” Subhani told TOI. He said the state government would also take action against agitating home guards and they might be dismissed from services if they did not call off their strike. Subhani also said the state government has ordered the respective district magistrates to take action against the home guards on strike. 
 
 Around 72,000 home guard jawans in Bihar have been on an indefinite strike since March 15, demanding equal pay for equal work. They cite a 2015 Supreme Court ruling that the home guards, while on duty, should get remuneration equal to any regular police personnel.
 
 In a case filed by home guard jawan Umesh Kumar against the state government in 2013, Justice   of the Patna high court gave a ruling on October 28, 2016: “In view of the aforesaid discussions, this court also finds that by and large this case is same and that other home guards of the country are entitled to the same relief as has been given by honourable Supreme Court to the home guards of the other states. In such view of the matter, this court directs the state government that the home guards should be given the duty allowance at such rates, total of which 30 days (a month) comes to minimum of the pay to which the police personnel of the state are entitled.” 
 
 Out of the 72,000 home guards on strike, 32,000 were on active duty and deployed in security of vital installations. At present, the home guards while on duty receive a wage of Rs400 per day. 
 
 Bihar Home Guards’ Association’s acting president Deshbandhu Azad said the government was acting like a dictator and was hell bent upon take repressive action against them. “We are not going to call off the strike. The strike would continue till our demands are met in the light of the Supreme Court order,” he said, adding that the Patna high court has also directed the state government make equal pay for equal work.
 
 Meanwhile, former RJD MP Raghuvansh Prasad Singh on Friday wrote a letter to chief minister  , urging him to end the strike by sympathizing with the home guards. “The Patna high court had ordered to follow the apex court order within three months, which did happen. Police personnel get Rs900 per day in comparison of Rs400 to the home guards. Government’s repressive action is not good,” he wrote.
 
 
