NAGPUR: Two new drugs for tuberculosis, Bedaquline and Delemanite, are being tested in six cities in the country for effectiveness and efficacy. After the six-month trial, the drugs could be brought in use for patients at large.

 Dr Digambar Behera, professor and head, department of pulmonary medicine at   told TOI that the drugs are being tested on 600 patients at Ahmedabad, Mumbai (two places), Guwahati, New Delhi (two hospitals) and Chennai. “Such trials are conducted under stringent conditions. The results are expected to be good and drugs could be used in a few months or a year,” he said. Dr   was in the city for the national meet on pulmonology.
 
 Dr Behera said that India had about 2.8 million new cases of TB every year. Besides these, 1 lakh cases of multi-drug resistance TB are added every year. “Efforts are on to use the latest tests like geneXpert to diagnose   in 65 laboratories pan India,” he said.
 
 Patients with HIV infection and suffering from tuberculosis are also being treated on priority in six states under a national programme. These patients are now put under a daily regimen as against the usual three-times course. “Here, involvement of private practitioners is being sought. Generally they treat the patient but don’t report it to the government authorities. They are not bothered about the follow-up. This is what results in drug resistance. These patients should be notified,” said Dr Behera.
 
 Talking about other respiratory diseases, Dr Behera said that air pollution specifically due to burning of biomass in rural areas was responsible for chronic respiratory ailments in women more than men.   and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Diseases (COPD) were also increasing. There are about 1-3 crore asthma patients and 1.8 lakh COPD patients in country. Asthma is curable but depends on access to inhalers.
 
 Dr Behera said Interstitial Lung Disease (ILD) is also on the rise. It is a progressive disease and can be diagnosed through scans and lung biopsy. But lung cancers were taking a toll of both men and women. Smokers comprise 30-35% of the population. Almost 15% of lung cancer patients don’t survive beyond five years. PGI Chandigarh is conducting a study on personalized therapy for gene mutation.
 
 There have been a lot of developments in treating sleep disorders, including sleep apnoea. Almost 3-6% population suffers from these disorders. “The CPAP machines available from last few years has revolutionized the treatment of sleep apnoea,” said Dr Behera.
 
