IDUKKI: When the huge land encroachments at Munnar and nearby areas of Pallivasal, Chinakkanal, Ekka Nagar and Munnar colony pave way for a political battle here, the revenue department and the state government failed to at least inspect the status of land in Anchunad village.

 Government land has been grabbed in the villages of Anchunad, Kanthalloor, Keezanthur, Vattavada, Kottakampoor and Marayoor using fabricated documents, various commission reports said.
 
 In 2010, former land revenue commissioner P   was appointed to study land status in Anchunad.
 
  He had submitted a detailed report to the state government, pointing out that “huge amounts of land were held by big encroachers from outside Idukki and they planted eucalyptus trees in a large manner in these areas. When revenue officials tried to check the validity of the land, the planters had resisted the move with the help of locals".
 
 "The land encroachments should be evicted immediately," the report added.
 
 Earlier, Devikulam RDO had conducted a study into the status of the land in the Anchunad village and pointed out that “the natives in these areas were traditionally cultivating winter vegetables like potato, cabbage, cauliflower, garlic and carrot. Their ancestors were from Tamil Nadu.
 
 "But in 1990s many outsiders had reached these villages and bought huge amounts of land and planted eucalyptus trees. This badly affected the ecology and water sources of the area and decreased the vegetable production. The land holders have no proper title deeds ", report added.
 
 Former land revenue commissioner   had conducted a study in 2014 and asked the government to take immediate steps to remove eucalyptus trees.
 
 Last month Devikulam sub collector   had temporarily stopped distribution of possession certificates and directed the land owners to submit the land records to the revenue officials for verification. But   and feeder organisations organised big protest against the move and the sub-collector resumed the possession certificate distribution.
 
 On condition of anonymity an official told TOI: "The revenue department has no proper records and other details about the status of the land in Anchunad village." tnn
 
