WASHINGTON: US President   on Tuesday nominated conservative appeals court judge   to the Supreme Court, ensuring that - if he is confirmed - America's apex court will continue to lean right for the foreseeable future. 

 Trump himself pointed out that "depending on their age, a justice can be active for 50 years and his or her decisions can last a century or more and can often be permanent" to illustrate the magnitude of the nomination. 
 
 At 49, Gorsuch is the youngest judge nominated to the Supreme Court in quarter century after Justice Clarence Thomas was confirmed at 43, although both are a long way off from the storied Joseph Story, who was 32 at the time of his appointment in 1812. 
 
  Gorsuch is seen as an ideological heir to the conservative  , whose death caused the vacancy in the nine-member bench currently tied 4-4 between liberal and conservative justices. Republican lawmakers welcomed the Gorsuch nomination, but Democrats, who believe the nomination was "stolen" from them because the vacancy occurred during the Obama presidency have vowed to put up a fight. 
 
 Republicans would not hold hearings for Obama's nominee arguing that it came late in his term when elections were imminent and the vacancy should be filled by the next President. 
 
  Although Republicans currently have a majority in the Senate (52-46 with two Democratic supporting Independents), Democrats are said to be considering a filibuster, which would require a 2/3rds majority (60 votes in the 100-member Senate) to override. Republicans have warned that they will resort to what is called the "nuclear option" - rewriting Senate rules to require just a simple majority - to overcome the filibuster. 
 
  Trump though maintained a sunny outlook in his remarks introducing the nominee and his wife at a White House event, pointing out that when Gorsuch was proposed to the 10th Circuit court of appeals, the Senate confirmed him unanimously. "Unanimously. Can you believe that nowadays with what's going on? Does that happen anymore? Does it happen? I think it's going to happen, maybe again," Trump said. 
 
  Trump began the selection process with a list of 21 potential nominees for the Scalia vacancy, including Indian-American Amul Thapar, who sits on the US District Court for Eastern District of Kentucky. Thapar made the final cut of three candidates who the President-elect is said to have interviewed in Trump Tower before he settled on Gorsuch, making him the second Indian-American to be considered for the Apex Court after President Obama considered Sri Srinivasan before settling on Merrick Garland (who in any case did not get the confirmation hearing stage). 
 
