MUMBAI: Narayan Rane’s decision to quit the   on Thursday and wait for the   to invite him is a political gambit that will hinge on the extent to which he is able to exploit discontentment among Congressmen and Shiv Sainiks .

 Much will depend on his ability to rally support from factions in both parties—of which he was a member—in order to negotiate terms in the build-up to the 2019 assembly polls. His clout has weakened in recent years–he lost the assembly poll in 2014 from hometown Kudal and then contested and lost a bypoll in 2015 from Mumbai–but prides himself on grassroot level contacts.
 
 “I'll show Congress what my true power is. I'll be travelling across the state from tomorrow,” he said on Thursday. The initial expectations were he would either announce his decision to join BJP or float a new party, but Rane told the media and his supporters that all options were open. “I am yet to take a decision on joining a political party…I will take the decision on my future course of action before Dussehra. I had an offer from  , but I have declined it,’’ he said.
 
 Surprisingly, while Rane, his son Nilesh, a former MP, and the Sindhudurg Congress panel which comprised his loyalists have quit the party, his legislator son Nitesh and trusted aide, Kalidas Kolambkar, a Congress legislator from Wadala, were conspicuous by their absence at the public meeting and media interaction. They have not yet walked out the Congress or quit the assembly. In his media interaction, Rane came down heavily on Ahmed Patel, Ashok Chavan and former CM Prithviraj Chavan. “The trio ditched me…,’’ he said.
 
 Rane recalled that in 2005, he was assured by Ahmed Patel and then AICC General Secretary Margaret Alwa that he would be considered for the CM’s post within six months. Rane said he had a meeting with Sonia Gandhi in their presence and was assured of it. “However, when I came back to Mumbai, someone else was declared CM,’’ Rane said.
 
 He said when a leadership change took place in the wake of the 26/11 terror attack, Vilasao Deshmukh was replaced by Ashok Chavan. “At a meeting of observers led by Pranab Mukherjee, 48 legislators voted in my favour, 32 for Ashok Chavan and four for Balasaheb Vikhe Patil. I was told to wait for a day. Next day, Ashok Chavan was declared CM... it was a betrayal of the highest order,’’ Rane said. He said Chavan even tried to stall his nomination as an MLC until Rahul Gandhi stepped in. He blamed Chavan for losses suffered by the party in recent elections and said the erosion in its base continued. “Before the 2019 polls, entire Congress and Shiv Sena will be finished in Maharashtra,’’ Rane said. Rane has been in talks with the BJP leadership for months, but he is said to have made demands which the party finds difficult to meet. Rane is believed to have sought a cabinet berth, a Rajya Sabha nomination for his son Nilesh and a state assembly ticket for the other son, Nitesh. According to a BJP cabinet member, Fadnavis is opposed to Rane’s induction into the state cabinet. Besides, the party is uncertain if Rane’s entry will boost its prospects in coming Lok Sabha and assembly polls. “Does Rane have clout in the Konkan belt? His son lost the Lok Sabha polls and he himself lost the assembly polls and that too in his home town. BJP leadership has left the decision to Fadnavis, who is in no hurry. Now it remains to be seen as to what will be Rane’s future move,’’ he said.
 
 
