CHANDIGARH: The much-touted political outfit of ex-servicemen —   (FJP) — has decided not to contest the Punjab elections. According to veterans, participation in the Punjab polls could divert them from their ongoing protest at   in New Delhi, which they want to continue till their long-pending demand of one rank one pension (OROP) in not accepted by the Centre.   and other resources is another hindrance in contesting the elections.

 FJP is a registered political party with   and was formed by a group of military veterans, led by Major General Satbir Singh (retired) — face of OROP agitation that is going on at Jantar Mantar.
 
 Talking to TOI, Maj Gen Satbir said had they focused and contested state assembly elections in Punjab, the Centre would have succeeded in lifting their OROP agitation from Jantar Mantar. “Our aim behind formation of party was to keep the veterans united and organized for their welfare. We found that engagement in elections might divert us from our main struggle of OROP,” he added.
 
 He, however, confirmed that they were open to all parties in Punjab, including SAD-BJP, the Congress and   (AAP), for support, if they give a written assurance of introducing schemes in the state for the welfare of veterans.
 
 His close associate Brigadier Harwant Singh (retd) of Chandigarh said contesting elections in front of the powerful Akalis and the Congress, who have both muscle and money power, was not a joke. “There is no doubt that we influence many seats in Punjab but we don’t have black money like many other parties in the fray. Veterans have limited amount from their savings and after deliberations we came to conclusions that there is no point of wasting it before such powerful outfits. We have called a meeting on January 6, where decision would be taken regarding support to any political party,” Brig Harwant said.
 
 With eye on large number of the defence personnel in Punjab, the veterans had announced the formation of party in a meeting held at Jalandhar in August last year.
 
 An 11-member advisory committee comprising veterans from Punjab was constituted to check the possibility of seats where they could contest and also to explore the party with which they can enter into an alliance.
 
 Punjab has sizeable number of defence personnel, which includes around four lakh retired ex-servicemen and lakhs of members of their family. Besides this, state has over 20 large cantonments, where the serving military personal are also entitled to vote. They have strong influence on around 40 seats in the state.
 
