Vellore: The struggle of the   tribal village in   taluk has been continuing for over a decade for a 2.5km   to connect their village to the foothills.

 Fed up with the lethargic attitude of the revenue and forest department officials over their decades-old demand, the villagers on Friday marched towards the MLA office to stage a protest. However, police refused to allow them to hold the protest and arrested them. They were shifted to a marriage hall in the vicinity.
 
 While Tirupattur sub-collector Karthikeyan asked the representatives to come to his office to discuss the issue, Vaniyambadi tahsildar of Murali Kumar told the villagers that they would be provided an alternative site in Pudurnadu, said the protesters. There are around 150 families in the village. The villagers are carrying pregnant women and ill persons in doli to hospitals.
 
 “The country is going to celebrate the 70th year of Independence in a few months, but we have been living without a road all these years. I don’t know what is stopping the government from providing a basic facility for us,” said Munusamy, a villager.
 
 The villagers have been demanding a road for 2.5 km that falls in the reserve forest area from their village to transport the agriculture produce and improve their living condition. 
 
 The then district collector P Sankar and sub-collector Shilpha Prabhakar took an initiative and handed over revenue lands in lieu to the RF land that necessary for the road work. However, forest department officials had demanded more land. Following this, the former collector had also communicated to the forest department to take 1.25 acre of land in Vinnamangalam.
 
 However, efforts taken by officials were put on the back burner after they were transferred out of the district. Their successors had not taken any steps to give shape to the villagers’ dream. 
 
 “We have submitted several petitions to ministers and officials and also gave several petitions to our MLA Nilofer Kafeel, who is also the labour minister, promised quick action, but nothing happened till date,” said another villager.
 
 Hence, the villagers decided to stage waiting protest until their demands fulfilled. However, police arrested around 100 tribal villagers, including women. 
 
 
