BHUBANESWAR: CBI finds it difficult to locate hidden assets of  , CMD of   Limited (GRIL) chit fund company, even as the firm is accused of cheating investors of nearly Rs 1,000 crore. CBI, which was granted by a court here on Sunday to take him on six-day remand for interrogation, suspects Sahiruddin invested the money in Dubai and Nigeria. CBI had urged the court for Sahiruddin’s 10-day custodial remand.

 “We have so far got evidence that GRIL collected around Rs 600 crore from investors from Odisha and other states. But we did not find any substantial amount in accounts of Sahiruddin and his companies. State  , which earlier probed the case, had frozen his deposits of Rs 57 lakh in 46 accounts, seized Rs 9.55 lakh in cash, 246 gram gold coins worth Rs 4.16 lakh and 9.5 kg silver coins worth Rs 6.67 lakh. We do not find anything else, though we strongly suspect he stashed huge money in some unknown locations,” said a CBI officer.
 
 Sahiruddin, however, put up a defiant face and dared the probe agency to substantiate the charges against him. "I am innocent. Let the CBI gather evidence against me," Sahiruddin told media persons while being taken to   for health check-up before he was produced in the court of special chief judicial magistrate (CBI) P K Mishra here on Sunday.
 
 CBI said Sahiruddin along with his three wives had settled in Nigeria in 2013 after the police in different districts registered cheating cases against him. He was arrested on Friday while trying to open bank accounts in names of his wives at Rajarhat in Kolkata.
 
 Reacting to CBI’s suspicion about his underworld links in Dubai, Nigeria and Bangladesh, Sahiruddin replied in negative. "I have no links with any underworld mafia. I was into mining business in Nigeria. I also flew to Dubai and Bangladesh for business purposes," Sahiruddin said.
 
 He avoided question about his alleged fake Bangladeshi passport. CBI said he entered India through a fake Bangladeshi passport last week. “We have inputs about his connections with the underworld mafias. We will interrogate him in our custody to verify the inputs. We will also try to locate his absconding associates,” said a CBI officer. CBI SP (Bhubaneswar)   formed a special team to find out his international links and business deals.
 
 Sahiruddin denied any political link in the scam. "Though a former health minister had inaugurated one of my pharmaceutical units in Balasore a few years ago, I never availed any undue political patronage from anyone," Sahiruddin said. 
 
