KOLHAPUR: The city corporation's plan to address Panchaganga river pollution may be delayed due to slowdown in the land acquisition process for the interception of nullahs to divert sewage water.

 The state government has approved the project which will cost Rs 70 crore. The project will overhaul the drainage network, construct sewage treatment plants and work to intercept, divert and treat the water flowing through the nullahs under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT).
 
 Earlier the component of diverting the nullahs was not included in the project. It was added later on, after the civic authorities insisted on it.
 
 The government has asked   Municipal Corporation (KMC) to acquire land required to divert the nullahs. For the acquisition process the   has decided to change the reservation of plots along seven nullahs.
 
 The total size of land required is around 2.5 acres. Officials claim that cost for acquisition will not be much as most of the land that is to be acquired fall under agricultural zone rather than development zone.
 
 Dhananjay Khot, additional director of town planning ( ) said, "We have tabled the proposal to change land reservation at the general body meeting which is scheduled to take place on Tuesday. If the proposal is approved, we will call for suggestions and objections, after which appropriate changes will be made in the city’s development plan. Once the change is made we have to begin the acquisition process for which the value of the land will be determined based on ready reckoner rates. We have not yet calculated the amount of money required to acquire the land, however it will be very low."
 
 The KMC is planning to issue transfer development rights ( 's) to acquire land space to avoid compensation in the form of money to the owners of the plots.
 
 The total cost of the work of interception, diversion and treatment of the seven nullahs is Rs 9.22 crore. The cost does not include the cost of land acquisition. The deadline for completing the AMRUT project is 30 months. Civic authorities agree that if the land acquisition gets stuck in the administrative process then the deadline will have to be extended.
 
 A drainage department official requesting anonymity said, "It will take around six months to clear the land acquisition files. We have asked the town planning department to complete it as early as possible as the deadline has already been extended from 24 to 30 months."
 
