PUNE: Members of the  , led by their chief Trupti Desai, created a flutter on the district court premises here on Tuesday when they broke the police cordon and slapped  , the suspect arrested for the murder of Infosys techie Rasila Raju OP on January 29.

 Saikia was produced before judicial magistrate first class A S Barulkar following the end of his remand in police custody. The court directed his remand in magisterial custody till February 21.
 
 Desai, who has led several gender-equality protests recently, was waiting in the open space outside the new building with her women supporters. Perplexed onlookers watched the women chasing the police personnel who had thrown a cordon around Saikia while rushing him to a police van waiting nearby. Desai and two women managed to break the cordon and slap Saikia thrice. The situation was soon brought under control with two women police personnel moving in to assist their male counterparts.
 
 Desai later told TOI, “We beat him (Saikia) up to send a strong signal that henceforth no young woman should face a situation like the one faced by the victim. Whenever an incident like this happens, our activists will resort to similar protests.”
 
 She said, “We keep talking about ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ but our girls have to face such crimes at the workplace once they take up jobs after pursuing higher studies. This indicates that criminals have no fear of the law and the law-enforcers. He (Saikia) may be facing an ongoing criminal proceeding but speedy justice is not meted out in such cases.”
 
 When contacted, senior inspector Rajendra Mokashi of the Shivajinagar police station, who is responsible for security on the court premises, said, “We are registering an offence under sections 353 (obstructing public servant), 341 (wrongful restraint) and other charges against Desai and three others based on an FIR being lodged by assistant police inspector Ganesh Dhamne, head of the escort team of the Hinjewadi police. We will conduct an inquiry following which we will take a call on arresting these activists.”
 
 Earlier, Dhamne moved a report before the magistrate seeking to extend Saikia’s remand in police custody for two more days. However, defence lawyers B A Aloor and Tosif Shaikh opposed any extension, saying the custodial interrogation had so far yielded little result. 
 
 ‘Ligature strangulation’ cause of death: Post-mortem report
 
 The police report in Rasila Raju OP’s murder case quotes the post-mortem report as stating that “ligature strangulation” was the cause of death. Forensic evidence such as nails and blood and hair samples have been sent for a chemical and DNA analysis, it said.
 
 The report said the suspect’s statement has been recorded and the clothes he was wearing at the time of the murder, the victim’s ID-cum-access card used by him to enter and exit the crime scene and his blood-soaked shoes have been recovered and sealed in the presence of ‘pancha’ witnesses.
 
 The suspect’s identification has been done with assistance from the police dog squad. As many as 26 persons have been questioned so far in the case and their statements have been recorded. The police have procured from the company the enrolment details of Rasila and Saikia, while the landline phone call details and a screenshot of the project on which the victim was working have also been obtained, the report said. 
 
 Details of the victim and the suspect’s mobile numbers, cellphone handset IMEI numbers and call records were being procured while the company has been told for hand over the   and data voice record, computer log-in details and log-in files. The police have seized registers which have details of where the security guards were posted and who was handling the keys of the secured room where Rasila was found murdered, the report stated.
 
