BENGALURU: Finding a balance between   is not an easy task, but for some of  , it is like a stroll in the park. Friday was a day to cherish for Mangaluru's  , who topped Lady hill Victoria Girls' High School with 99.5% (622625) in her Secondary School Leaving Certificate examination. Swathi - who took up chess as a toddler after watching her mother Preethi play - is a four - time State age group champion and finished runner-up 11 times in her budding career. At the National level, she represented Karnataka at the 2015 SGFI School Games in Hyderabad, where they won the team bronze medal.

 “I marginally missed out in English and Science but overall it's a great feeling to get such good marks. Playing chess has definitely helped me stay sharp and focused academically,“ the 15-year-old told TOI. “I took a few months off to prepare for my exams and now I can return to devoting my time for chess and studies equally,“ added Swathi, who is also a Rashtrapati Guide Award winner.
 
 Nearly 80 km away in Dhar masthala, Dakshina Kannada district, Shalmika Jain's family is busy celebrating their daughter's stellar show. The   student scored 98.4% in her examination and has done considerably well at State and FIDE-rated tournaments. “I stopped playing over the last couple of months to focus on my exams but now I am back to practising my game,“ says Shalmika.
 
 In Bengaluru, International Master Raghunandan KS secured 93.6% and has his eyes set firmly on a medal-winning performance at the Abu Dhabi Chess Festival in August.
 
 Raghunandan has been one of Karnataka's finest chess prodigies, having won the World Youth Chess Championship silver (UAE) and the U-12 Asian Youth Chess Championship gold (Iran) in 2013, apart from several State and National medals. “I could have done better and I plan to give my Maths paper for revaluation,“ Raghunandan said. 
 
 “I have resumed my training with full intensity ahead of the National Open events in Odisha and Mumbai. My aim is to do well at the Abu Dhabi championship.“
 
