KOLKATA: A 60-year-old south Kolkata resident succumbed to dengue at a private hospital in Kolkata on Thursday. This was the fourth dengue death reported from the   area this year.

 Victim   had been admitted to hospital with high fever and multiple complications on Wednesday . He was immediately put on ventilation, but couldn't be revived. He passed away on Thursday afternoon and his death certificate cited multi-organ failure and dengue shock syndrome as the cause of death. Jha's family , however, claimed that they had not been informed that he had dengue and had only come to know of it from the death certificate.
 
 The fresh death confirmed the spread of dengue in south Kolkata. The disease, which had been restricted to South Dum Dum and the northern fringes of the city till last week, has now claimed four lives in less than seven days in the KMC area. Last week, a fatherson duo had succumbed to the vector-borne virus in Kasba, followed by a six-month-old in Karaya.
 
 According to his family,   resident Jha had been suffering from high fever since last week. He had been taken to   on Wednesday , but Jha was extremely weak and had several other complications that needed treatment as well, said a source. The patient had to be shifted to   off EM Bypass when his condition turned serious.Hospital sources said an NS1 test confirmed dengue.
 
 “We knew he had fever, but the hospital never told us that he had tested positive in the NS1 test. We came to know about it only from the death certificate,“ said a family member. He, however, added that scores in Vidyasagar Colony were suffering from dengue.
 
 A source at the hospital, on the other hand, pointed out that Jha had been admitted in a “bad state“ and suffered a multi-organ failure shortly after admission. “Since we didn't want to take any chance, we immediately put him on ventilation. But unfortunately, he didn't respond to the treatment,“ added a hospital spokesperson.
 
 The state health department that has been tightlipped on dengue deaths remained mum. But KMC member, mayor-in-council (health) Atin Ghosh has reportedly asked borough officials to look into it.
 
 
 
 
 For several families in and around the city, this festive season will not bring much joy, thanks to dengue and other seasonal ailments just refusing to go away. Dengue's footprint has now spread from the north of the city (Dum Dum) to the east (Kasba) to central Kolkata (Karaya) and now to the deep south (Tollygunge-Jadavpur).And, if the example of other years is anything to go by, then we may not have yet seen the peak. The next few weeks will be a test of how much Kolkata -both its citizens and health and civic authorities — has learnt from the past.
 
