PUNE: The   of the Maharashtra Criminal Investigation Department (CID) in Pune has received 181 puppies from different police units across the state to train them in different  . However, inadequate facilities at the Shivajinagar training centre have forced the CID to send these puppies to Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana for training.

 This is the first time that CID has received a large number of puppies for training. Earlier, the number used to vary between 50 and 80 dogs.
 
 The CID officials have received a huge piece of land at Daund for setting up a dog training facility, which is yet to take shape. The old Shivajinagar premises of the training centre can house only 60 dogs and CID does not have large number of kennels to accommodate the dogs.
 
 Additional director general of police and CID chief Sanjay Kumar told TOI, “In such a scenario, it has been decided to train these dogs at Ratalu in Karnataka, Tekanpur in Madhya Pradesh and Bhanu in Haryana. We have decided to shift these puppies aged about four months to the three centres.”
 
 Ratalu and Tekanpur dog training centre is owned and managed by   (BSF) while Bhanu centre is owned and run by Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). “These are quality dog training institutes and they have vacancies for dogs,” he said.
 
 Many police units have procured Belgian Malinois breed of puppies, as the CID has advised different police units to procure this breed of dogs along with labradors and German Shepherds.
 
 Belgian Malinois is a rugged breed of dog and is best suited for Indian condition. However, the CID wants to first train the dog trainers by sending them along with the dogs to these centres.
 
 These trainers then can train Belgian Malinois at Daund or Shivajinagar facility of the dog training unit.
 
 Police require dogs for sniffing out explosives and narcotics or for tracking down a suspect who has left behind a clue.
 
 Kumar said that this time the CID has received requests to train   for narcotics from different police units.
 
