New Delhi: Going to airport via Outer Ring Road is likely to get more challenging in the next six months.   ( ) has sought permission from the traffic police to close the left carriageway between   and Army R&R Hospital intersection (a 3km-long stretch) for the construction of a parallel   flyover. The work to place girders and reinforced concrete slabs is likely to start from mid-August.

 “The construction of piers is almost over. Now, we have to place the girders and RCC slabs. For this, we need to close the left carriageway. But, we will do the work in a phased manner,” said a senior PWD official. 
 
 Officials say to meet the April 2018 deadline, it’s important to close the stretch. The construction work is being monitored by the Delhi high court.
 
 PWD has submitted a detailed plan to the traffic police. It has suggested two major diversions between   and  .
 
 In Phase I, the stretch between   Marg and Vasant Vihar Poorvi Marg ends will be closed for airport-bound traffic coming from IIT-Delhi side. It will be diverted to Nelson Mandela Marg and then to Abdul Gaffar Khan Marg towards NH-8 via Mahipalpur and Mahipalpur bypass, which lead to NH-8. “This diversion will continue for six months till the construction work is over. The proposed route is slightly long but it will bring down the travel time to the airport as the road is wide,” added the official.
 
 In Phase II, PWD will carry out construction work between the RTR junction and the Army hospital. This stretch is a cause for worry as it is likely to slow down the airport-bound traffic coming from central Delhi. As the left carriageway on Outer Ring Road will be closed for construction, PWD plans to divert the traffic coming from Rao Tula Ram Marg to the right carriageway under the flyover. 
 
 “Two traffic signals will be installed to ensure that traffic from the right carriageway gets on to the left one smoothly. One signal will come up at the foot of the RTR flyover, near the Army hospital, to help manage the airport-bound traffic and another will be installed just before the hospital to regulate south Delhi-bound traffic coming from the airport,” said the official.
 
 According to PWD officials, the existing two-way flyover will be made one-way for south Delhi-bound traffic. “The two traffic signals will ensure smooth traffic movement at the intersection. Traffic coming from the airport will take the existing RTR flyover,” the official said.
 
 PWD had submitted the final plan to traffic police two months ago after a joint survey of the area was carried out in April. “Traffic police have told us that they would like to do a drill before implementing the plan,” said a senior PWD official.
 
 The road-owning agency will make provisions for traffic coming from Vasant Vihar and other residential colonies. “We have planned for traffic movement from the residential colonies so that they can use the Outer Ring Road without any hassle. We will do the work in a phased manner and keep opening the intersections for traffic once the construction work on a particular segment is over,” said an official.
 
 For instance, the work on the section between Poorvi Marg and Vasant Vihar Marg will start once the Nelson Mandela Marg-Poorvi Marg stretch is ready.
 
