MUMBAI: A gutsy woman who nabbed her harasser on a desolate street in Vile Parle (E) late on Monday had to wait for nearly 40 minutes at the beat chowky till a   could pick them up and take them to the  

  It took her 2.5 hours more at the police station to press charges against the harasser, and she also had to face questions such as what she was doing out so late. The harasser,  , was produced before a magistrate court on Tuesday and remanded in police custody .
 
 The woman is a media professional and in her thirties. Around 10.45pm, she was returning from her uncle's place on foot. She had reached   when a man walked up from behind and touched her.Fuming, she confronted him and hit him. The man said he may have touched her accidentally. “I was struck by the man's audacity . The road was wide enough for him to have walked at a distance,“ she told TOI.
 
 The woman told him to come with her to the   He replied he had no problem as he had done no wrong.“There was nobody in the lane who could help. I started to drag him to a beat chowky (near the railway station),“ she said. By the time she reached the main road, a crowd started to gather.
 
 The woman hauled the harasser to the beat chowky , only to find a lone constable seated there. “I was told I'd have to go to the police station (near the domestic airport). But there was no female cop to accompany me, so we'd have to wait. The constable grilled the harasser about his family , place of work etc... Around 11.40pm, a police vehicle drove us down to the police station,“ she said.
 
 The woman had to narrate the incident thrice--twice at the beat chowky and once at the police station. “I was asked irrelevant details about my brother, sister-in-law and even my nephew, including their names and ages. Police didn't know what section to book the offender under. One of the personnel said I'd have to go for a medical check-up, while another said it was not needed. They then referred to a book. The printer wasn't working, so they had to step out to get a photocopy of the FIR,“ she said.
 
 A lady cop wanted to know what she was doing out so late.“I replied 10.45pm wasn't late and many women worked till night. Meanwhile, I posted the goings-on on Facebook, and a friend copied it to Mumbai police's Twitter handle. The web team checked on me. Things started moving swiftly after a senior officer arrived,“ she said.
 
