CHENNAI: The 
  coast since 
  last Saturday has travelled 32km south and entered the   on the East Coast Road. It is likely to travel further south and reach Uthandi by Monday. Nearly 70 tonnes of oil sludge accumulated on the Ennore shore at Ramakrishna Nagar Kuppam beach has been removed by the   so far.

 The environment ministry has deployed a team of officials to visit Chennai on Friday to assess the damage to the environment. Kanimozhi of the DMK raised the issue in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday , pointing out the lack of coordination between nodal agencies in the clean-up process and sought a probe into the collision that caused the spill.
 
 Commandant Pradeep B Mandal who has been heading the clean-up operation said, “There may be 10-15 tonnes oil still left on the Ramakrishna Nagar beach.We will mop it up by Friday evening.“ After the coast is cleared, the pollution response team of the coast guard will go to work on the sea walls (groynes). The rocks on the shore that are coated with thick oil sludge will be cleaned using steamers.
 
 The   is predicted to affect another 15km of the coastline until Kanathur by Monday, according to the Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), Hyderabad, which has been tracking the drift pattern of the oil slick along the city coast using computer models.
 
 The oil slick accumulated on the Palavakkam beach is predicted to move south and reach Injambakkam, near the Cholamandal Artists' Village by Friday. By Saturday, it is likely to cross the VGP Golden Beach.
 
 
 
 The oil spill trajectory prediction system employed by INCOIS works based on inputs like details of the oil spill, location, date and time of the spill, quantity and type of oil spilled.
 
 The system is linked to the Ocean State Forecast System that provides parameters like wind direction, speed and currents. The model will generate the trajectory and zones that are likely to be affected. The output generated will be sent to fishermen and posted online INCOIS has found that about 7 tonnes of oil will evaporate each day over the next one week. About 10 tonnes will be beached every day until next week. Meanwhile, an aerial survey by the coast guard has shown that there is no trace of oil in the mid-sea.
 
 
 
 On Thursday , the coast guard removed 21.5 tonnes oil using buckets. The super sucker which had been employed over the previous two days could not be operated on Thursday. More than 750 workers and volunteers from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB), marine institutes and NGOs took part in the clean-up.
 
 After Kanimozhi raised the issue in Parliament, a parliamentary standing committee on environment took suo motu cognisance of it and the environment ministry sought a ground report.
 
 An official said the ministry will send a team of officials to Chennai to assess the damage to the coastline.
 
 He said, “The ministry has been in regular touch with the state government as well as the shipping ministry ever since the oil spill was reported on January 28.“
 
 
 
 Raising the issue in the Rajya Sabha, Kanimozhi said: “I would like to bring to the notice of the House that different organisations of the government are not coming together when damage like this happens. And there are reports indicating that around 35 km of the Chennai coastline has been polluted.“
 
 She said there was lack of trained persons to deal with such a situation and various wings of the government were not coordinating properly to clear the oil spill which has resulted in destruction of marine life in the area.
 
 (With inputs from New Delhi)
 
