ALLAHABAD: Many candidates contesting the upcoming Assembly elections have decided not to file nominations till February 2 because of 'Panchak' period, considered to be inauspicious to start any work. The five-day 'Panchak' period started from January 29 and continue upto February 2. 

 Filing of nominations for fourth phase of assembly elections started on Monday. But all the 12 court rooms of Collectorate and Sadar tehsil reserved for the nomination process wore a deserted look. 
 
 Bharatiya Janata Party candidates will start filing nominations on or after February 3 after the period passes off. BJP believes in the auspicious time and will follow it. "I will file my nominations after receiving directions from party," BJP candidate from   constituency   said. He was in the Collectorate to purchase the nomination papers.
 
 The significance of auspicious occasion or Muhurt for filing nominations could be gauged from the fact that Bahujan Samaj Party has directed all its candidates from all the Assembly constituencies to file their nominations on February 4. The party has directed all candidates to file nominations on February 4, BSP district president Chandra Prakash Kuril said. He claimed that BSP does not believe in auspicious time and the decision was taken to give a message that 'we all are united'. 
 
 The candidates of   and   claimed that they would file nominations after February 2 but failed to give reasons for it. 
 
 Even Apna Dal candidates would enter into the election battle with the filing of nominations after February 2. Many candidates have refrained them from filing nominations on 'Panchak days' on the advice of astrologers.
 
 The candidates decide the time and date of nomination and their choice is respected. They only want to give a good start to the elections, an Apnal Dal worker said. 
 
 The panchak is considered to be harmful among Hindus for starting any work, said Swami Vasudevanand. The nominations started from Monday and would end on February 6 while the nomination papers would be scrutinized on February 7. 
 
