MUMBAI:   from the state who are awaiting the   on the domicile issue in the   are worried about the approaching admission deadline. The last date for completing   in PG   courses prescribed by the SC is May 7, while the students allotted seats in the all-India quota elsewhere in the country are expected to surrender their seats by May 9. If the court verdict is not out before these dates and the state does not release the merit list, the students will have to risk the seats they have been allotted.

 The state issued a GR on April 27 making domicile mandatory for postgraduate admissions. Over 67.5% seats in private, government, municipal and deemed colleges were reserved for domicile candidates, making candidates outside the state ineligible overnight. Based on the resolution, the state’s Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) released the first merit-based selection list on Sunday morning. But the list was scrapped by afternoon, after some candidates from other states got a stay from the Bombay high court on the April 27 order. The state moved the SC to appeal against the order and the hearing is scheduled on Friday.
 
 Punshi Parekh said she got a seat in a college in Baroda under the all-India quota. “In the list released by the state on Sunday I got Sion Hospital’s paediatric seat. But if I surrender the seat in Baroda and the court verdict is not in favour of domicile candidates, I will lose both seats. If I keep the all-India seat and the order is in favour of domicile students, I will have to pay a huge fine for wasting the seat,” said Parekh. Another candidate, Yash Dalal, said it was a big gamble for most students. Dalal has got a seat in D Y Patil but he may lose it if the order is not in favour of domicile candidates.
 
 DMER director Pravin Shingare said the state was ready with merit lists in both criteria – with or without applying the state’s GR on domicile. “We hope to get a favourable order on Friday. In any case, we will be ready with both merit lists and will release one as soon as the verdict is out. Students will not suffer due to approaching deadlines,” said Shingare.
 
 
