Hubballi: The   presented a surplus   of Rs 4.31 crore for the financial year 2017-18.

 Veeranna Savadi, chairman, standing committee on taxation, finance and appeals, presented the budget here on Monday, which he described as practical and easy to implement. The budget proposes   collection of Rs 548.27 crore, including an opening balance of Rs 84 crore, against the expenditure of Rs 543.96. The major portion of the revenue collection will come from central and state government grants.
 
 Savadi proposes to collect Rs 130 crore from the   resources, which is a challenge, and form a committee which will review the implementation of budgetary proposals every month. The corporation proposes to collect property   Rs 44.71 crore, including the earlier due, and Rs 30 crore from receipts from the town planning department. The rest Rs 55 crore will be collected from other sources, like   cess, advertisement tax, market  , rent from its properties and road-cutting charges. The corporation expects about Rs 13.71 crore from road-cutting charges.
 
 Under the State Finance Commission and 14th Finance Commission grants, the corporation expects capital payment of Rs 255.23 crore. These grants include funds towards Swachh Bharat Mission, Integrated Solid Waste Management project and MP and MLA Land Area Development funds.
 
 The corporation proposes to set up one generic medicine centre each in Hubballi, Old Hubballi and Dharwad, offer free stent to 100 poor patients and insurance to BPL cardholders on pregnancy. The budget has allocated Rs 13.61 crore for toilets. Of the total allocation, Rs 2.23 crore will be set aside for individual toilets and rest for community and mobile toilets. A sum of Rs 24.07 crore has been earmarked for embankment along drains in the twin cities. 
 
 The HDMC budget has proposed Point of Sale machines at its zonal and central offices to enable tax payments through the digital mode. The HDMC also proposes to create five   hotspots at a cost of Rs 10 lakh. 
 
 Terming the budget bogus, Subhash Shinde, opposition leader in the HDMC, said that like the past three budgets, the proposals this year will not be implemented. Coporators Ganesh Tagargunti and Yaseen Haveripeth, who represent the Congress, said that the schemes and projects proposed in the budget will not reach the people. 
 
 Former mayors Dr Pandurang Patil and Poorna Patil, and JD(S) leader Rajanna Koravi welcomed the budget. MLC Pradeep Shettar appealed everyone to join hands to implement the budget proposals.
 
 
