Ambala: Despite chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar having already denied any possibility of compensating kin of Dera Sacha Sauda followers killed in police firing during Panchkula violence on August 25, his cabinet colleague Anil Vij raised the issue again on Thursday. Even Punjab CM Amarinder Singh had refused compensation to the killed dera followers from his state. 

 No stranger to controversies, Vij said that he has asked his government to provide monetary relief to the families of the 36 dera supporters shot by police when they were on a rampage following the conviction of sect head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in rape cases.
 
 Two weeks back, Vij had defended his decision to grant Rs 50 lakh from the government coffers to the Sirsa-based dera and announced that he would still go to the dera to seek votes during elections.
 
 Talking to the media at his residence in Ambala Cantonment on Thursday, the health minister said that he had suggested to his party’s government to grant compensation on the lines of those killed during the Jat agitation for reservation in February 2016. Vij said the issue was raised by him in an informal meeting of the cabinet on Wednesday.
 
 “How can there be different laws for two similar incidents in a state? During the Jat agitation, arsonists were involved and properties were damaged. Same was done during the Panchkula violence on August 25. In both incidents, people died in police firing. If we compare both incidents, they would weigh equal on a scale,” said Vij.
 
 “I am a humanist and I always take up the issues related to the common man. The families have lost their loved ones to police bullets. The same was the case during the Jat agitation last year in which the Haryana government had given jobs and compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the victims’ families,” the minister said. At the same time, he claimed that neither did he advocate any leniency towards those arrested or booked on charges of sedition nor did he support arsonists or criminals.
 
 
