KOLHAPUR: The district court hearing   murder case on Tuesday said the hearing against accused   and Virendra Tawde will be held together.

 The court also deferred framing of charges against Gaikwad till January 21. The court presided by additional district and sessions judge L D Bile also issued order to produce Tawde in court on January 21.
 
 Special public prosecutor   said, “The court today (Tuesday) clubbed the hearing against both Gaikwad and Tawde and stated the next hearing will be on January 21. The court also deferred framing of charges against Gaikwad as similar case in this regard is pending with Bombay high court and after completion of the hearing, the district court will take decision on this.”
 
 The state government has filed an application in Bombay high court demanding the court should not frame charges against Gaikwad till further investigation is complete under Section 173(8) of the CrPC.
 
 “We had also put forward an application demanding issuing proclamation against two other suspects Sarang Akolkar and Vinay Pawar, but court stated the prosecution has already mentioned the duo as absconding and the police have right to take action as per rule and search their whereabouts,” he added.
 
 Sameer Patwardhan, lawyer of both the accused, said, “We brought to the notice of the court that Gaikwad wants some books and newspapers of Sanatan Sanstha to read. The court had granted permission regarding this during earlier hearing, but we are unable to hand over the material to him. Following this, the court has asked us to hand over the material to the court during next hearing and it will make arrangement to hand it over to Gaikwad. The court has also asked the concerned authority to present Tawde in court on January 21, for the next hearing.”
 
 Gaikwad was arrested in connection with the murder of rationalist Pansare in Kolhapur on February 16, last year. He was arrested in Sangli in September 2015. The second accused, Tawde, was arrested on September 2, 2016.
 
 On February 16, 2015, unidentified motorcycle-borne men shot Pansare when he was heading home after a morning walk. Pansare succumbed to his injuries on February 20.
 
 
