THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had a different but exciting role to play on Wednesday, as he kickstarted the `One Million Goal' campaign, a unique promotional programme undertaken by the soccercrazy state to welcome the 17th edition of   Under-17 World Cup, as one of the first-time hosts of the major international tournament.

 Vijayan kicked a ball straight into the nets of a specially erected goal post at Central Stadium in the state capital at 3pm, which was followed by a flurry of goals to posts in several parts of the state, and by 7pm, the deadline set for scoring, the event saw a total of around 1.73 million goals, 17,34,586 goals to be precise, far surpassing the target.
 
 Kozhikode came first in the campaign by scoring 3,36,746 goals at 155 centres, followed by Malappuram (2,52,137 in 350 centres) and Kannur (2,35,227 in 356 centres). Thiruvananthapuram (1,18,273 goals), Idukki (1,01,723) and Kasaragod (1,37,050) went beyond the one lakh goals mark.
 
 Several of his cabinet colleagues also joined the chief minis ter to score goals, in a goalkeeper-less post, without kicking the ball wide. Those who scored after him included Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, ministers  , A C Moideen, C Raveedranath, K K Shylaja, P Thilothaman, M M Mani and K Raju besides MLAs, employees, students and sports lovers.
 
 There were a total of 3,572 centres set up across the state for the public to score goals, giving only one chance for a person to score, and within half an hour, each district scored between 5,000 to 10,000 goals. “The campaign saw people from various walks of life and in different age groups scoring goals. This has become history ,“ said sports minister A C Moideen hailing the novel initiative to promote the game of soccer in the state. Organised by the state Sports and Youth Affairs department in association with the Sports Council and various other organisations, the `One Million Goal' programme covered 941 panchayats, 87 municipalities and six city corporations.
 
 
 
 
 At Cochin international airport, a counter would be opened for receiving football teams, officials and fans arriving for the Fifa U-17 world cup.A huge football with a radius of 15-ft would be put up in the airport as a welcome sign. The football will be erected in traffic island outside the airport.
 
 Box offices have been opened at all six host cities for the offline sales of the U-17 World Cup tickets.In Kochi, the box offices are at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium and Bank of Baroda, Panampilly Nagar branch. Tickets will be sold at a 25% discount (at Rs 60, Rs 15, Rs 300, Rs 600) until October 5, a day before the inaugural match of the tournament. From October 6, they will be sold at the base price (Rs 80, Rs 200, Rs 400, Rs 800). Both the online and the box offices sales will run until the last match day in the city, October 22.
 
 Fans who purchased tickets online can redeem them at stadium box office from Thursday. They will need to bring proper identification document with embedded photograph and respective ticketing booking number. Fans will be able to attend both games at a stadium with a single ticket on double-header match days. On the opening day of box office sales at the   stadium on Wednesday, a technical glitch led to a long delay of the ticket sales while many fans got hold of tickets from the Bank of Baroda branch in Panampilly Nagar from morning. TNN
 
 
 
 
 Hosting the Fifa U-17 World Cup has proved to be windfall for the sports infrastructure in Kochi.The Jawaharlal Nehru stadium, which was found to be lacking in faclities, has been spruced up. To make the venue qualify for the event a modern firefighting system was installed in place of the old defunct one. The electrical system and the toilets were also renovated to match international standards.“We have completed the work on all the stadia including the venue and practice grounds,“ said A P M Mohammed Hanish, state nodal officer for U-17 world cup.
 
 The renovation of practice grounds like Maharaja's college stadium, Fort Kochi Veli , Parade ground,   State Sports Council ground at Panampilly Nagar and Ambedkar stadium also have been completed.
 
