COIMBATORE: The region has once again come under the  . In 2015, five Maoists were arrested from rural Coimbatore and an ISIS suspect was arrested by the National Investigation Agency in Tirupur city. Numerous industries and a large migrant population offer the right environment for anti-social elements in Coimbatore and neighbouring Tirupur to camouflage themselves. Officials are maintaining a  , but say it is impossible to keep track of every migrant entering the district.

 “We have instructed companies in Coimbatore district to produce details of employees along with photographs and photocopies of Aadhaar cards immediately to the nearest police station. Thousands of   are working in various sectors in Coimbatore and we cannot track everyone,” said Pa Moorthy, superintendent of police, Coimbatore district.
 
 According to police sources, most of the migrant labourers shift jobs once a month. So the companies are not able to provide accurate data about employees. It is too difficult to track all the workers in the district and the police department has to focus law and order and crime.
 
 The Coimbatore city and rural police as well as the Tirupur city and rural police have distributed more than 20,000 applications to collect details of tenants from landlords. After the recent arrest of an ISIS suspect from Tirupur city, police were taking special effort to collect tenant details. 
 
 “Thousands of migrant labourers are visiting Tirupur urban and rural areas for work. It is a floating population and we could not get accurate data about the employees of the companies. Many small companies do not even have a desktop. However, we have been trying to collect intelligence information across the district,” said E S Uma, superintendent of police, Tirupur district. 
 
 The Special Branch-CID, the Special Intelligence Cell (SIU), the Special Intelligence Unit (SIU), the Intelligence Section (IS), the Q branch and a few other intelligence wings are functioning under the Tamil Nadu police. But all these agencies are often not able to keep track of militants’ movement in the state.
 
 Central intelligence agencies, including the Intelligence Bureau (IB) and the National Investigation Agency, have tracked the movement of militants in Tamil Nadu and provided information to other agencies to arrest the militants.
 
 IB has setup an office at SIHS colony near Singanallur in Coimbatore and an SP cadre officer is leading the team in Coimbatore. Two inspectors, more than four sub-inspectors and a few more personnel are working for Coimbatore and Tirupur to gather intelligence.
 
 A senior police officer told TOI that the Union government should set up an office for the NIA in Coimbatore as it would help track ISIS suspects and other militant outfits.
 
