JODHPUR:   has imposed a cost of Rs 2 lakh each on state government and the   (RPSC) for consistently denying an applicant, appointment as a grade III teacher despite having passed the examination.

 Expressing displeasure over the negligence and indifference of the officials, the court has also directed the chief secretary and the RPSC chairman to identify the erring officials and make efforts to recover the amount of cost from them after fixing their responsibility.
 
 Justice   gave these directions while hearing a petition by   who had appeared in grade III teachers’ recruitment examination in 2004 but was denied appointment despite having scored 134 marks, equal to those many, who were given appointment.
 
 Gupta, then moved high court in 2008, which directed the government and the RPSC to give him appointment and moved a contempt petition in 2011, when he was not given appointment despite court’s directions.
 
 His counsel   said that the state governemtn and the RPSC misled the court stating first that he would be accommodate on the vacant posts accrued to 2004 recruitment drive but later refused stating that all those posts had been filled in 2006.
 
 Taking a serious note of the misleading approach of the officials in the court, justice Mehta directed to provide him appointment in two months and place before the court, a compliance report on next hearing on May 26.
 
 The court has also ordered “All the benefits be provided to him from the date of appointment of the candidate who secured 134 marks alike the petitioner. The benefits prior to the passing of the order were made notional. In this background, this court is of the opinion that despite not having worked on the post, the petitioner is definitely entitled to the actual monetary benefits.”
 
 Order further stated “A cost of rupees two lacs each is imposed on the RPSC as well as the State Government for the indifference shown in pleading the matter and filing affidavits with patently false and misleading assertions. Cost upon being realised shall be paid to the petitioner for the pain and agony inflicted upon him owing to the recalcitrant attitude of the officers concerned.”
 
