BHOPAL: A team from   (EIB) visited the   proposed routes and held consultations with senior Madhya Pradesh officials. EIB has been approached by   for funding of first phase project.

 The   rail project stretches 27 km and is estimated to cost Rs 7,000 crore. Later this month, another team from Asian Development Bank (ADB) is expected to visit Indore for a similar assessment for its metro rail.
 
 EIB team visit has revived hopes for the ambitious metro rail project for the state capita. Last year, consultations with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for providing modified step loan for Bhopal and Indore metro failed to get through.
 
 The team comprising of EIB country head Sunita Lakkhoo and deputy economic advisor Piers Vickers visited metro rail site including the main Depot at Stud Farms, near Arera Hills. 
 
 Sources said that EIB team had queries over viability of the project that would overall cost around Rs 22,000 crore at current prices. Experts indicate that Rs 200 crore to Rs 250 crore per km would the cost of overhead metro rail. Whereas underground rail network would cost about Rs 400 crore per km.
 
 EIB team visited Karond, Hamidia road, Stud Farm, Habibganj, AIIMS Bhopal, Jawahar Chowk areas where the metro rail is expected to pass through. 
 
 Around October last year, MP government to kick-start the much-hyped metro rail project said it utilise equity funds (with contribution from union government and began simultaneously to look for funding agencies for loan assistance.
 
 Madhya Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MPMRCL) official said, “We expect EIB funding would be a reality in about three months.” Much of the ground work for Bhopal metro has been completed, he said.
 
 Detailed project report of Bhopal Metro rail has been prepared by a German consortium, another factor that could favour EIB loan for the project. 
 
 As per a new proposal, MP government will have an equity stake of 20%, Union government another 20% and 60% of the project cost will be raised through financial assistance from EIB. 
 
 EIB was approached through Union government’s Department of Economic Affairs (DEA). Indications are long-term financing on by EIB is unlikely to be on as favourable terms as JICA. In the proposal by the Japanese agency, the equity of union government was 20% and 80% of the funding was through a 30-year soft loan.
 
 Rs 7,000 crore is required for construction of Bhopal metro. First phase of the project some 27.81 km would connect Karond to AIIMS Bhopal (14.3 km) and another will link Bhadbhada to Anand Nagar (12.34 km).
 
 After EIB clears the process, it would be evaluated by the DEA. Sources said that metro rail project would be kickstarted in 2018, ahead of state assembly elections.
 
 
