PUNE: In a reflection of just how   is perceived in society, over 200 inmates at the  , who have been cured of their illnesses for years now, have nowhere to go as their families do not want them back.

 For instance, it took the hospital authorities and police months of search to trace the   of a healed sexagenarian man who was admitted to the hospital by his family six years ago. Apparently, at the time of admitting him to the facility, his kin had furnished the wrong address of their residence.
 
 Finally 20 days ago, the authorities managed to trace his family members to Gulbarga in Karnataka. Immediately, the man was united with his dear one, comprising two sons and their respective family members. However, the union did not last long as the man was sent back to the facility within next few days.
 
 “He comes from a well-to-do family with his sons staying in a three-storeyed house. He was visibly happy after being united with his family members. However, they suddenly dropped him at the gate of the hospital one evening and disappeared. Though action can be initiated against them, it is disturbing that his sons do not want him any more. The man is clinically fit, but the stigma of being treated at a mental hospital is what could have been the reason for his sons to shun him,”  , the medical superintendent at the hospital, told TOI.
 
 His is not the only case. The facility, which is presently home to a total of 1,626 patients, has around 250-odd healed inmates who are lodged here for over three years now. “The hospital has got a total capacity of 2,500. We have many patients who have considerably improved or healed, but are staying at the facility since they have been abandoned by their family members. If we release them, where will they go?,” he added.
 
 And these are not just the elderly patients, even the ones as young as 40 years of age have been dumped here and forgotten by their kin. 
 
 “There is a 40-year-old man who has been staying here for over three years now after being healed. On an average around 60 to 70 new patients are admitted to the hospital every year, including people found aimlessly sitting by a roadside or pavement. Police, social organizations and individuals identify them and take them to the court from where they are brought here for treatment and rehabilitation,” Donglikar said.
 
 The official said talks are on with non-governmental organisations (NGO) in this regard. “The healed patients can be let off under NGO care, which can eventually make them self-reliant by teaching some skills to earn their daily bread. This will allow them to take care of themselves. Though this isn’t a permanent solution, it can be tried,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the authorities said they have started a day-care centre to take care of healed, but abandoned patients.
 
 “This is a new initiative, which was started a week ago. The healed patients, who have been shunned by their families, can be brought to the centre to teach them some skills. This will make them self-reliant,” Donglikar said, adding that not all families are averse to the idea of keeping their healed relatives with them.
 
 “There are some families who accept their clinically fit relatives after they have been treated at the mental hospital. For those who just do not want to take back the healed patients, we also have a legal aid cell that looks at such cases from a legal point of view,” the superintendent added.
 
 Yogesh Malkhare, a social worker who has been actively associated to the cause of such people, highlighted the role of the government and social organizations in such cases. “It is sad that even after being declared clinically fit, people who have stayed at mental hospitals are not accepted by their families. In most cases, it is too difficult to trace their whereabouts. Most patients are shunned because of the social stigma attached to mental illnesses. It is for the state government to intervene in such cases and set up a proper mechanism to rehabilitate them in every way possible,” Yogesh said.
 
 
