PATNA: The anti-encroachment drive launched on the New Patna Police Lines premises at Lodipur has sparked uproar amid allegations that police association’s members or their supporters are being spared. Most of those evicted so far have been woman constables.

 The district administration launched the drive on May 8 after receiving a letter from Patna SSP   that “some people” have constructed illegal hutments on the police lines premises. But, it has been alleged that even after four days, those conducting the drive left untouched the illegal constructions of those associated with Bihar Police Men’s Association and district level police association.
 
 Sunita Devi, a 2012 batch constable whose illegal construction was brought down on Thursday, said, “Officials at the police lines, responsible for identifying encroached structures, don’t point fingers towards the constructions by association leaders.”
 
 Besides a residential office of Bihar Police Men’s Association, several other hutments and some cattle sheds were still intact in the areas where anti-encroachment drive was conducted on Thursday.
 
 When asked, the   said all encroachments would be removed.
 
 A policeman preferring anonymity said, “There are several cattle sheds inside the police lines and cops with good contacts are doing business. But their cattle sheds have never been brought down even after repeated anti-encroachment drive.” He also said several police personnel who have been transferred from Patna are still in possession of the encroached space due to the patronage of association leaders.
 
 When contacted, Naval  , the magistrate on duty for removing encroachments on Thursday and Friday, said, “We demolished those illegal constructions identified by officers at the police lines.”
 
 SI Nityanand Sharma and Mrityunjay Kumar Paswan, who were identifying illegal structures, said, “It will be better to talk to senior officers. City SP (West)   is the nodal officer for the drive.” They said a week’s time has been sought for the anti-encroachment drive.
 
 The police lines has 12 official barracks with a capacity of 50 persons each. These barracks are in poor state and constables are forced to live under thatched roofs due to huge space crunch.
 
