MUMBAI: The   on Friday rapped the   and   for lack of   with regard to drives undertaken to demolish   in the city. 

 A division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Anil Menon directed the additional chief secretary (home) to hold a meeting with the municipal commissioner, police commissioner and other officers to work out a plan to ensure there is proper coordination between agencies and adequate protection is given to municipal staff who are part of the demolition squad.
 
 “Notwithstanding orders, there is complete lack of coordination between the BMC and the police. Demolition orders cannot be delayed because of this lack of coordination,” said the bench. “We also agree with the submission (of the BMC) that officers attached to the local police station should be present when the civic officials undertake demolitions.” The state had said that the BMC should not insist on local police personnel to be present during demolitions. Advocate A Y Sakhare, counsel for the BMC, pointed out that as the local officers knew the area and the people, it was essential that they accompany the demolition squad to defuse any tension.
 
 The court was hearing a PIL by Janhit Manch and Bhagwanji Raiyani about the lack of action to implement orders to remove illegal slums and encroachments near the city’s main water pipelines. In 2009, the court had directed the BMC to remove the slums and to keep a 10-m buffer zone between the pipelines and structures. 
 
 Last month, the BMC, in an affidavit, had blamed the lack of progress on an incident on April 15, when state housing minister Prakash Mehta had visited Tilak Nagar police station to oppose the demolitions near Vidyavihar. Following the court’s orders, the Tilak Nagar police on Friday submitted a copy of the CCTV footage of the day in a sealed envelope before the bench. Mehta was also given two weeks’ time to file an affidavit to respond to the allegations.
 
 The court approved a fresh schedule of demolitions near the water pipeline—the first phase would be conducted from May 14-16 and the second phase from May 16-21. “Adequate police protection should be made available and the state shall also ensure that the local police officers are present during the demolitions,” the bench ordered. The HC has scheduled the next hearing on June 15. 
 
 Of the 160km of water piplelines running through the city, around 90km is above ground. 
 
 In an affidavit in 2009, the BMC had admitted to around 15,000 illegal structures on the pipelines, mainly from Balkum to Mulund and then beyond Maroshi. The civic body supplies over 3,200 million litres of water daily to the city but around 20% was lost in wastage, theft and leaks, resulting in a loss of over Rs 100 crore, the PIL had claimed.
 
 
