UDAIPUR: A hospitable environment, full waterbodies, lesser levels of pollution, non human interference- all these conditions combine perfectly here in making Dungarpur and its surrounding areas a major stopover point for wintering birds. 

 As the district administration and forest department are set to hold the third Bird Fair this year, there is a lot of excitement seen equally among the rural population as well as city dwellers on the forthcoming event. 
 
 This time bird lovers can have a visual treat of watching some eight to nine species from Europe, Mongolia, Russia, Siberia, China, Ladakh and upper Himalayan region who are nesting here in large numbers. 
 
 “More than 264 avian species may be seen here around this time of the season. Of these 100 varietis are water birds. Gapesagar, Sabla pond, Mathugamda, Sagwara, Galiyakot, Punjela Talab, Bodigama, Nithaua Indouda, Mewara canal, Falouj are emerging as birds paradise with hundreds of birds flocking here every winter. Among these are Brahminy Duck, Pintail, Spot bill duck, Red crested Pochard, common pochard, Mallard, Coots, Wigeon, Common Teal etc,” said  , co-ordinator of the Bird Fair which is slated for January 12-13 here. 
 
 Sagwara is emerging as a potential breeding colony for Painted Storks-the broad winged birds falling in the nearly threatened species of theIUCN ( ) list. The increasing number of these birds are attracting ornithologists and researchers to Dungarpur from far and wide. 
 
 “The environment here is conducive for their breeding and if proper steps are taken, the area may see an increase in threatened species like cranes and storks,” says German scholar Burner Brown and Sherlyn from England who have flown down to participate in the bird fair. 
 
 Over 200 bird watchers are expected to arrive here specially for the event, all arrangements are being taken care of so as to facilitate them for birding, said collector S S Solanki. The two days would see students and people engaged in painting and photography competitions, quiz and talk shows and exhibition.
 
