Nagpur: The high court’s dismissal on Thursday of city Congress president Vikas Thakre’s petition, against his exclusion as co-opted member of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), is a major setback for the Vilas Muttemwar faction. However, the group feels it is a minor issue, since the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) would surely appeal against the verdict in Supreme Court.

 This is the second defeat in court in this matter related to NMC, with the earlier petition challenging appointment of Tanaji Vanve as leader of opposition in NMC house also being dismissed by the court. This double defeat has further closed the doors on any possibility of rapprochement between the Muttemwar faction and the one led by Satish Chaturvedi, Nitin Raut and several other senior leaders.
 
 Leaders of both groups do not want to come on record. “Now the matter may move to Mumbai and Delhi. It’s no longer local,” said a source close to Thakre. They are seeking action against the other faction for splitting the party at the behest of the ruling BJP.
 
 “Sanjay Mahakalkar was officially elected as leader of the house and LoP by MPCC. But some leaders are only interested in weakening the party, on the directions of Nitin Gadkari. They created a wedge and formed a separate Congress group in NMC,” said a Muttemwar loyalist.
 
 “The party leadership will take action at the opportune time against those who orchestrated the ink-attack on state unit chief Ashok Chavan. The Delhi leaders know that if such indiscipline is ignored, it will ruin the party,” said the source.
 
 In a triumphant mood, the anti-Muttemwar faction said the next move would be to wrest control of the party by defeating Muttemwar faction in the coming organizational polls, which may happen next month. They also feel that the party may not go to the apex court as it would bring more disgrace.
 
 Five former ministers, who went in a delegation to meet Rahul Gandhi last month, are very hopeful of major changes in the party, including removal of Ashok Chavan as MPCC president along with Mohan Prakash as in-charge of state unit. They alleged that Prakash, Chavan and their team fared badly in every election in last four years. They had failed totally as party tickets for even municipal elections were sold, they alleged.
 
 These leaders claim they are not fighting on local issues but for total revamp of the state unit so that it gets going with new energy under a new leadership and rejuvenated cadre.
 
 
