BENGALURU: Karnataka government is looking for land to provide a new firing range for the Indian Army. With nearly 40% of its firing ranges lost because they were either 'deleted' (not in use by the Army) or land on which they existed was denotified by various state governments across the country in the last decade, training has been affected. 

 Sources in the government said the Army is looking for 3,000 acres to set up a new firing range in Karnataka. Bengaluru development minister K J George said: "Based on the request, we are searching for land. The fact that we need to find one parcel of land measuring at least 3,000 acres and that it must have a safe distance from population will mean that it will take some time."
 
 He said the government, however, is keen on providing the Army with the required land. An official in the Karnataka & Kerala Sub-Area of the Army said: "The process is on." Five days after TOI sought an official response from the Sub-Area, the Army has neither confirmed nor denied the proposal.
 
 "If it is 3,000 acres, then it must be for a field firing range, unless the Army is planning to build multiple small arms firing ranges," a retired brigadier said. An official response to this has also remained elusive.
 
 According to information accessed from the   (MoD), the army, which had 109 field firing ranges in 2009, now has only 66 by the end of 2016. It was 81 in 2014. Of the 109, at least 38 ranges, including six under the southern command have been deleted, while several others have ceased to exist because of denotification.
 
 In 2012, the Karnataka government had challenged operations at the   at   in   district belonging to the   and demanded that it be shifted. At present, no full-fledged firing activity is being conducted at the range and no immediate confirmation was available whether it has completely stopped.
 
 Suresh Angadi, member, Parliamentary Standing Committee on Defence, said: "Not just the Karnataka government, all states must provide the Army with necessary support as the armed forces are a priority. However, we must ensure that no project causes inconvenience to people." Angadi is a MP from Belagavi. 
 
