MUMBAI: Bringing to light the vulnerability and plight of minors employed as domestic help, a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act   recently convicted and sentenced a 40-year-old   to seven years in jail for raping a 15-year-old help at her employers’   home in 2013. Santosh  , the accused, has been in jail since his arrest soon after the incident. 

 The minor who had claimed to be 21 years old at the time of her employment was found to be only 15 years old after an ossification test was done. 
 
 The court held that the girl’s testimony was corroborated by other witnesses’ statements. 
 
 Explaining why the sole testimony of the victim is given such importance, the court held, “In Indian society, it is not easy for any poor minor girl from a small village who works as a maid servant in others’ houses to lodge such a false case and involve any person in a rape case, due to the stigma is attached to the said act.” 
 
 The court denied the defence claims that the absence of scratch marks on the accused rendered the   consensual. “In rape cases it is highly impossible for the thin minor girl of 15-16 years to resist forcefully the person like the accused (taller and heavier). So there is no substance in the argument of the defence,” the court held.
 
 The girl told the court that from November 25, 2013, painting work was on at the residence. Every day, two painters would come to the house but on December 3, 2013, only the accused arrived. The child said at noon that her employer went to the market. She was home all by herself when the crime was committed in the bedroom. She said the accused threatened to kill her if she told anyone of it. 
 
 She further said that she ran out of the bedroom and bolted it from the outside. When her employer returned and saw her crying, the child revealed her ordeal. 
 
 The employer then immediately called her husband who, in turn, rushed home and took her to Bandra police station. The accused was arrested. 
 
 The nine witnesses included the victim, her father, her employer and doctors.
 
