MANGALURU: Not convinced that everything is fair in the manner in which   announced   conducted in November/December on January 23, Akhil   ( ) leaders on Thursday said they will scale up agitation against the university on February 11. 

 ABVP activists had gheraoed VC K Byrappa on the same issue when he had come to the city for a function on February 1.
 
 Hithesh Bekal, state executive member of ABVP, said notwithstanding assertion by the university that it has put the results of degree examinations on track, students who have appeared for exams in a particular course are yet to receive the marks list. There is confusion over online results published on the university’s website. Students and parents are at a loss due to it. Results of students comes up blank with the message ‘TAL’ (to be announced later), he said.
 
 The college authorities are in constant touch with the university to sort out the result mess as the students are anxious, he said. In certain cases, students have been denied the opportunity to pursue their higher studies as the marks card of the final year examination were received late, he contended. 
 
 “We have been able to collect nearly 300-odd such cases where students have been affected,” he said, adding the cases could be much more if one undertook a closer scrutiny.
 
 A M Khan, registrar (evaluation), Mangalore University, reacting to these charges told TOI that the university has around 800-odd cases where results have not been announced due to various reasons. These range from non-approval of admission or non-receipt of fees. With the office of registrar making the entire process of admission online, there are few instances where colleges have not submitted requisite documents of students to the university, he said.
 
 In some cases, internal assessment marks of students received has been mentioned as zero. “We are verifying the same with the respective colleges and going through records of students before announcing the same,” he said. 
 
 The marks card will reach the respective colleges latest by end of this week, he said adding the university is open to receive opinions, views from students or organizations on issues regarding the results and will attend to the same.
 
