CHANDIGARH: Even as the clampdown by the   (UP) government on unauthorized meat trade has badly hit the business there, poultry industry of Barwala-Raipurrani area in Panchkula district has not witnessed any visible decline in its sales. This despite the fact that the poultry hub supplies 60% of its produce to the India's most populous state.

 The poultry industry, however, is affected due to escalation in the rates of meat and bone meal (MBM), a poultry feed supplement purchased from UP and used in the industry here.
 
 Known as the poultry hub of Haryana, it has around 200 poultry farms having 1.35 crore birds in Barwala and Raipurrani blocks. The area is also leading trading centre of eggs in north India, which handles more than one crore eggs every day and supplies around 18,000-20,000 birds daily to various states.
 
 Around 60% of poultry products from Barwala-Raipurrani area are supplied to various parts of UP including Saharanpur, Varanasi, Faizabad, Lucknow, Bareilly, Jaunpur, Deoria, and Azamgarh. Other states where the poultry products are supplied from here include: Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Jammu and Kashmir, and  .
 
 President of poultry farmers association of Barwala-Raipurrani Darshan Singla told TOI that supply of birds had not been affected on account of the developments in UP because their supply was in bulk to established professional groups dealing in poultry business. 
 
 "So far, nobody has witnessed any cancellation or reduction of supply orders from the state of UP," Singla said.
 
 Another leading poultry farmer in Barwala Deepak Bansal said though due to Navaratras, their sale had declined, it couldn't be attributed to restrictions on illegal sale of meat in UP at the moment.
 
 Bansal, however, said only effect, which poultry industry at Barwala had seen was that due to closure of   in UP, rates of MBM had gone up from Rs 24 per kg to Rs 35 per kg. MBM, which is used as food supplement in poultry farms, is prepared from the flesh left in the big slaughterhouses that export meat.
 
 On Wednesday, Shiv Sena activists, using the festival of Navratri asan excuse, forced most meat shops in Gurgaon to shut down. Though party officials claimed most shopkeepers had shut down voluntarily, as sales go down during Navratri, eye-witnesses claimed some shops in the Sadar area of old Gurgaon were forced shut by  .
 
 A chicken shop owner said a group of 10-12 people, claiming to be Shiv Sainiks, forced him to close his shop around 11am. Cops arrived an hour later to offer cover for the shops to reopen. 
 
 Shiv Sena spokesperson Ritu Raj said party activists, along with   and Hindu Kranti Dal members, submitted a memorandum to the district administration a week ago to issue an order for closure of shops selling meat during the Hindu festive season, but the administration had failed to take any steps in the direction. "Therefore, our activists had to intervene and pursue shopkeepers to close all meat shops in the city. We did not force them, they accepted our demand and cooperated," he said. 
 
