NAGPUR: India One-day skipper   landed in the city by a chartered plane to cheer the Jharkhand side, which is playing   semifinal against   at Vidarbha Cricket Association’s Civil Lines Stadium. Dhoni is the mentor for Jharkhand this season.

 The 35-year-old came to the city on Sunday morning and immediately rushed to the ground. Jharkhand are playing their first Ranji Trophy semifinal. In fact, they topped Group ‘B’ which had heavyweights like Karnataka, Delhi and Maharashtra. Though the VCA has barred TOI from entering its premises, sources said that Dhoni was chatting with Jharkhand skipper   during the tea break.
 
 “When there is a big partnership, what can you do and what needs to be done? He just spoke about that, about the different situations and what the options are. He was trying to explain what we can do when there’s a big partnership — which bowler to use, how long to wait,” Kumar said.
 
 Jharkhand have been doing well for the past two years. Last year, Jharkhand was only one of the two teams to have qualified for knock-outs of all formats. The Indian One-day skipper played for Jharkhand in both One-dayers and Twenty20 last year.
 
 This year, Dhoni was with the team in their crucial league matches. “He always said he would make a flying visit. It also depends on the Indian team selection, but I think since the selection is on Thursday, he will be here till January 5,” Jharkhand coach Rajiv Kumar said.
 
 “He was with us till the halfway stage and then he had to go. The plan at the start of the season was that he will be a mentor for the team. Of course, we wish he could spend more time, but he is busy with his cricket also. He is spending as much time as he can and sharing his views and thoughts which is a big help,” he said.
 
 Dhoni has been a big influence for Jharkhand boys this season. Jharkhand have upset star-studded Haryana, which had bowlers like Amit Mishra, Mohit Sharma and Yazuvendra Chahal, in the quarterfinal. “He is very calm and interacts with all the boys. He makes everyone comfortable. He listens to everybody and then he gives his views. He’s the best in India and sharing his thoughts. We are lucky to have him. He makes a difference. He played the Vijay Hazare too last year. His work ethics are good, so when you have a senior, who is a role model, as a coach it becomes very easy to explain to the others what you should do,” said Kumar.
 
 
