 Pauly's   went to create a lot of landmarks in Mollywood, even fetching him a State Award for the Best Actor. The film, which closely follows  's career and how it influences the movie's protagonist Rameshan, have also helped to bring the cricketing legend and the actor closer. So much, that Sachin, in his recent visit to Kozhikode, had said in a radio interview that he wishes to watch the movie with  .

 The Master Blaster, who was in Kerala for a promotional event, said, 'I remember having a chat with my friend Nivin Pauly about 1983. He narrated what he was trying to do and all that. But I am going to sit with him and watch the movie in Malayalam, with subtitles. It will be nice and Nivin is one guy who has been supportive of Kerala Blasters, and I want to thank him for all the support and wishes.'
 
 Nivin Pauly, who was played the recording of the clip by the radio show host, was thrilled to hear what his cricketing hero had to say. 'I am overwhelmed,' he said. The Premam star said that the team behind the film had always wanted   to watch the movie, so his comments are more than welcome in that regard.
 
 'In fact, when we were doing the film, our biggest wish was to make Sachin watch the movie. Now, that I am associated with the football club, I had told him that we had tried approaching him several times for that but didn't succeed. A few months earlier, he asked me to give him a DVD. I told him I would hand it over to his manager. He said that wasn't necessary and I could give it to him directly. He said he will try and watch it when he gets the time. He even asked if there were subtitles back then too,' said Nivin, during the show.
 
 It wasn't the first time that Sachin is reminded that 1983 is inspired by his career. 'During the breaks of the Kerala Blasters matches, a lot of people bring it up. So, I think he knows about the movie well,' said the actor.
 
 Last October, when Nivin was chosen as the ambassador for the football club, which is co-owned by Sachin, the actor had described it as a 'dream-come-true moment.' Recounting the first time he met Sachin, Nivin said, 'The first time I met him, I was nervous and he had also asked me that. I told him, 'When I standing next to the person that I have always wanted to meet, couldn't I afford to be a bit nervous?'
 
 Let's hope that 1983 surely hooks Sachin to Malayalam movies, and we wonder how he would react to the hilarious scene where Srinda's character points to Sachin's poster and asks, 'Ithaarude photoya chetta? (Whose photo is this?)'
 
