NASHIK: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s   has seen a rise in commuters by 8.71% over last year even as loss-making Nashik city depot lead by a 18.36% rise. 

 The MSRTC saw the rise following its month-long Pravasi Wadhava campaign, the aim of which was to increase the number of passengers.
 
 As against carrying 150.01 lakh commuters in January 2016, the corporation saw the number shoot up to 163.08 lakh due to the special campaign. The city depot, which has been a loss-making unit where the MSRTC suffers a loss of Rs 10.1 per km done by the bus as against the loss of Rs 2.51 a km lost in rural areas, has seen a whopping rise in the numbers of commuters. 
 
 While MSRTC officials attribute the rise to the change in routes, dumping of several routes in the city to the rise in commuters and the   also contributed to the revenue gain. 
 
 “We have dropped the unfriendly routes, where occupancy of the buses was less than 40%, and changed the routes with higher occupancy. This has served the purpose as the number of the passengers has climbed up, given that more passengers were accommodated in the same bus. This has ultimately reflected in the business growth,” said R D Jagtap, divisional transport officer, Nashik. 
 
 The Lasalgaon traffic also witnessed a rise in the number of commuters – especially given that the MSRTC started Lasalgaon and Pimpalgaon buses and connecting both market places by a shuttle services with higher frequency.
 
 The Lasalgaon depot has been connected to several other places, besides Kalwan being linked to Malegaon and other destinations. The Kalwan depot (tribal areas) also witnessed a 12% rise. “This will reflect on cash inflows as well,” the officer said. 
 
 Against a popular belief of Nashik-Pune route getting additional traffic during the campaign, Nashik depot has not seen much change. The depot reported a rise of traffic by 0.21 lakh (0.95%) only. The performance was only better than Peth depot that registered a negative growth of –1.69%. “The Nashik-Pune traffic is heavy. We are taking more measures by adding buses on demand,” the officer said.
 
