KOLKATA/ NEW DELHI: Senior pros  , Amir Mishra, who are in contention for the India A team, have failed their fitness test and would have to go through the grind again to be picked for the second string national team. Tamil Nadu all-rounder   too seems to have some issues with his fitness and hence there was a bit of ambiguity regarding his test. 

 Both Raina and Mishra have been out of favour for Team India because of their lacklustre form and fitness. The Indian team in the last few years has raised the bar in terms of fitness and the selectors are keen that even the bench strength measures to the high standards set by the Indian players.
 
 Sources told TOI that the selectors were ready to test them during the India A matches against New Zealand A to take their case forward. However, they both failed to pass their fitness test despite training under the watchful eyes of the   coaching staff.
 
 The board sources said that Mishra had even trained for at least four months inside the NCA complex still couldn't pass the fitness test with flying colours. With the success of another leggie   in the shorter version of the game, the selectors were looking at Mishra as a backup. But his lack of fitness has become an issue with the selectors for the India A matches.
 
 Similarly, Raina was in the fray for a comeback and the selectors were looking at the India A matches to check his match fitness level. With Raina too failing the fitness test, it has only delayed his comeback into national reckoning. 
 
 But it is surprising that a youngster like Sundar should be under the scanner. The 17-year-old Sundar, who holds the record for the best bowling figures in an   final, is a promising cricketer and is touted as the next big star. The Tamil Nadu teenager Washington Sunder announced his arrival in domestic cricket when he helped India Red lift the Duleep Trophy with a 163-run win over   recently. The 17-year-old had made a splash on his Duleep Trophy debut, striking a brilliant 88 and then claimed his maiden 10-wicket match haul in first-class cricket to seal the impressive victory.
 
