MUMBAI: With six weeks to go for polling day, chief minister   is clearly the  's face for the forthcoming elections to the country's biggest civic body .The central leadership has asked him to lead the party's campaign in the city and he will play a key role in selecting nominees, it is learnt.

 Fadnavis told TOI he is taking a message to voters. “I don't speak politics. I tell them (citizens) what I have done for Mumbai and what I intend to do,“ said Fadnavis of his hitherto low-key wardlevel interactions.
 
 He has addressed 30 small meetings so far ­ from Chhath Pooja gatherings to groups gathered for opening of pub lic gardens -across the city in the last couple of months.
 
 BJP Mumbai unit president   Shelar said, “By the time campaigning gets over, he would have addressed at least 50 such meetings.“
 
 Fadnavis was the obvious choice, say party watchers.He steered the campaign for local body polls in other parts of the state too. BJP's impressive tally in recent municipal council elections in the hinterland despite the impact of demonetisation, has given the CM stature, sources said.
 
 Efforts are to project Fadnavis as Mumbai's Santa Claus with his bag of sops which includes the Rs 23,136crore metro-III corridor, the Rs 13,000crore coastal road, the Rs 11,500-crore Mumbai trans-harbour link, the Mumbai-Nagpur train and a slew of urban housing projects.
 
 For the Mumbai election, Fadnavis will be assisted by minister for culture and education Vinod Tawde and Shelar, both Mumbaikar Marathis. The gameplan is to woo Marathi voters who form the Sena's core support base, it is learnt.
 
 Should BJP not tie up with Sena, Fadnavis will have to clash swords with Uddhav Thackeray , the Sena's face for the elections, said observers.Sanjay Nirupam, a Bihari-tur ned-Mumbaikar, will lead the   unit, while Sachin Ahir, also a Mumbaikar, will be the NCP's pointsperson.
 
 “That the Fadnavis regime is yet to pay Rs 1,800 crore as compensation to cotton and soyabean farmers for crop failure is a major failure which Mumbaikars will not forget. The city's politically articulate voters will not get carried away by BJP's hype and hoopla,“ said Nirupam.
 
 However, BJP has emerged a topper in the municipal council elections. Of 191 municipal council president's posts, it has won 71 against the Congress' and the NCP's tally of 35 and 21 respectively.Sena won 26 presidentships.
 
 Of the total 4,704 seats, the BJP won 1,190, followed closely by the Congress with a tally of 952 seats. The NCP and Sena bagged 812 and 612 seats respectively . The Sena's limpwristed performance has brought cheer in the BJP camp.
 
