TIRUVANNAMALAI: A 33-year-old   was killed in clashes over a love affair between a   youth and a dalit girl in Tiruvannamalai district of   on Sunday.

 The deceased has been identified as M Venkatesan, son of Madhavan of Puliyarampakkam. 
 
 Venkatesan’s brother Adi Kesavan, 21, and three others - Ganapathy, Dhayalan and Vijayraj –sustained serious injuries in the clash. They were undergoing treatment in various government hospitals. 
 
 “It was a fallout of a love affair between a vanniyar youth and a dalit girl. A vanniyar youth along with his friend, both residents of Chellaperumpulimedu , went to a dalit colony at Puliyarampakkam to see the girl he was in love with. The colony people caught one of them and handed him over to the Cheyyar police. The police asked him to appear for an inquiry the next day,” a senior police officer told TOI.
 
 In the meantime, the other youth who escaped from the dalits reached their village. He fabricated a story that the dalits had abused and caught hold of his friend. Infuriated over this, a group of 30 to 40 young boys and men from Chellaperumpulimedu village, armed with deadly weapons, entered the colony around 5.30pm and ransacked a teashop, houses and vehicles.
 
 They assaulted several people in the colony and kidnapped Venkatesan and his brother Adi Kesavan. “They brutally attacked the siblings and dumped them at Mankkal Junction. On being alerted, the police rushed to the spot and rescued them. They were referred to Government Hospital in Kancheepuram. Venkatesan, who sustained critical injuries, was referred to GH in Chengalpet and later to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai,” said a police officer.
 
 Venkatesan succumbed to his injuries around 3am on Monday, said the revenue divisional officer of P Kirubantham.
 
 The news of the death of Venkatesan triggered a protest in the village. The staged a blockade on the Cheyyar-Kancheepuram Road demanding immediate arrest of his murderers and those who damaged their property. 
 
 Tiruvannamalai superintendent of police R Ponni and senior police officers rushed to the spot and conducted inquiries. Police personnel were deployed in the area to bring the situation under control.
 
 Nine residents of Chellaperumpulimedu had been arrested on charges of murder, rioting and damaging public property, said DIG of Vellore Range V Vanitha. The police launched a manhunt for others involved in the clashes.
 
 
