KOCHI:   would be sending letter to   requesting it to supply garbage to KMRL for the Metro agency's project for cultivating ornamental plants. 

 Though KMRL had approached the city corporation for purchasing garbage, the local body authorities refused to sell the waste citing that they would soon be starting a waste to energy plant.
 
 At the same time, the waste movement from the city to   plant has been affected due to noncooperation by contactor supplying trucks for the purpose for the past few days. The local body authorities haven't made the payment to the contractor following local fund audit department objected to the exorbitant amount paid to him as truck hiring charges earlier. The audit department had asked the local body authorities to take back undue amount running in to lakhs given to the contractor. "Now, we have arranged another contractor for transporting the waste for the time being. We will be able to award the new contract for supplying trucks for transporting garbage within a fortnight," an official with the local body said.
 
 Rather than roping in a new contractor for the interim period, the local body can sell the garbage to KMRL. "Using the garbage, we can start the project on a pilot basis. Now, we require only 2,000 tonne of waste. When the project is in full swing, we can purchase the entire waste in the city," an official with KMRL said.
 
 But, the corporation authorities argue that they can't sell the garbage to the KMRL. "We have entered in to agreement with private firm to set up a waste to energy plant at Brahmapuram. As per the agreement, we will have to give them 300 tonne of municipal solid waste a day. So, we can't give the garbage to the KMRL," a corporation official said.
 
 Now, Suchithwa Mission is planning to send a letter to the local body to give the waste for the time being. "It will take at least a few months to start the construction of the plant. So, the civic body can sell the waste to KMRL till then," a former councillor said.
 
 The KMRL's plan is to cultivate plants like vanilla and orchid in the median and pillars of Metro rail. The plants and flowers will be cultivated in 500 medians and alternative pillars. The proposal is waiting for the final clearance from Union government to include it in  . It is not just a means for generating revenue but a project to reduce pollution, KMRL officials said. If the corporation is not ready to give the garbage, we will have to purchase it from other local bodies, the official said.
 
 
