Visakhapatnam: A store house of all major documents, land records and rare books dating back to the 18th century, the   has for all practical purposes been shut down.

 Housed in Andhra University campus in a dilapidated century-old tiled bungalow, the office is crying out for care. Today, there is no archivist in-charge of the office and the only human presence is that of a lone caretaker who keeps a watch on the un-catalogued documents and books.
 
 V Ganapathi Rao, former caretaker of the archives, said that the office contains valuable land records and collection of encyclopaedias and books concerning the history of north Andhra and south Odisha dating from the 18th century. 
 
 Rao further added, “The building is crumbling and all the records are in peril. If these land records are wiped out, land grabbers can have an easy time doctoring documents to scam lands.”
 
 History buff BS Mahesh, who is a regular at the archives, said, “The government talks about digitalising records. But for some strange reason, the archives are not even catalogued. The documents and books are literally up for grabs for people who are willing to tamper with old records and also at the mercy of the weather gods as they are housed in a building with no roof.”
 
 Regarding restoration work at the building, Rao said, “No restoration work was carried at the archives post cyclone Hudhud. Also, the lack of a full time archivist only proves the disinterest of the state government.” 
 
 Another regular at the archives, P Sree Ram, a retired school teacher, noted that successive governments have deliberately allowed the archives to rot. He further added, “Today, the entire archives department has less than 30 employees working all across the state. The numbers have come down from 180 to less than 30 in the last three plus years.” 
 
 Sources in the archives joint director’s office in Kakinada under which north Andhra region falls also confirmed that they are woefully short of staff. They added that the present in-charge archivist in Visakhapatnam has been posted from Anantapuram and shuttles between the two cities at far corners of the state.
 
 History buffs opine that AU authorities can take upon themselves the task of salvaging and safe-guarding the archives. Sources in the university disclosed that the initiative must come from the archives department as they cannot interfere in what is not their jurisdiction. 
 
 Former AU rector and noted political historian Prof A Prasanna Kumar said, “Many of those books and documents have been donated by a few famous families of Vizag for a good cause. Unfortunately, we are simply letting them go to dust. Much damage has already been done and I fear that the situation is out of control.” 
 
 
