Visakhapatnam: The proposed meeting between chief minister Nara Chandrababu Naidu and   chief   on July 31 over Uddanam kidney diseases has generated a lot of curiosity in the political circles of Andhra Pradesh. Even though it is an issued-based meeting, this sudden development is being closely watched as Naidu and Kalyan will be seen together after a long time.

 Kalyan rigorously campaigned for the TDP-BJP alliance in the 2014 general elections and played a key role in bringing the TDP to power. However, after the elections, friction arose between the TDP and the Jana Sena, particularly in the last one year, over differences of opinions on several issues. 
 
 Kalyan and his party is set to contest the 2019 elections and the suspense now is over how the dynamics between the two parties will play out in the next elections.
 
 Kalyan was popular with both the TDP and the BJP in Andhra Pradesh before he made his electoral ambitions clear with rallies and public meetings that were held across the state in the second half of 2016. 
 
 The public meetings elicited a positive response from the public. He raised the issue of special category status and how the BJP has cheated the people in the name of special financial assistance. 
 
 He also drew attention to the TDP’s silence over the SCS. Not stopping there, he compared the special financial assistance offered by the BJP government with “two stale laddoos”, which miffed BJP leaders. 
 
 The Jana Sena supremo also backed the people fighting against the aqua food park in West Godavari and supported the AgriGold victims. He even criticised the demonetisation drive of the BJP government. Since then the distance has continued to widen between the TDP-BJP and Jana Sena. 
 
 Kalyan’s fight for Uddanam kidney patients and other social issued has only added to his popularity.
 
 “However, on the insistence of Chandrababu Naidu, the TDP leaders have never commented against the Jana Sena or its chief. This is a sign of TDP’s inclination towards forging an alliance with the party in the 2019 elections,” a political observer of Visakhapatnam commented.
 
 Kalyan is currently busy with films as he wants to wind them up as early as possible so that he can turn his full attention towards politics and strengthen the party’s base in Andhra Pradesh before the 2019 elections.
 
  The actor has already announced that he will contest the elections from Anantapur district. According to sources, Kalyan will launch a state-wide tour after completing his movies. 
 
 In a first of its kind initiative, the party has conducted recruitment drives in various districts of the state to employ speakers, analysts and content writers.
 
 
