MUMBAI: The  , which had its inaugural run from   (CST) to Karmali on Monday, will also be deployed on the  , Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu, who was in city to flag it off, announced.

 A senior Western Railway official said, “We were earlier told that Tejas will run between Mumbai and Surat but we will now have to chalk out the path up to Ahmedabad.”
 
 If the train is deployed on the Ahmedabad route, it will take the same time that the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Shatabdi takes. The Shatabdi Express, which runs at a maximum speed of 130kmph and takes 6 hours and 20 minutes to traverse 493km, is presently the fastest on this route. It departs from Mumbai Central at 6.25am and arrives in Ahmedabad at 12.45pm. On its return journey, it leaves Ahmedabad at 2.20pm and arrives at Mumbai Central at 9.20pm
 
 The official said, “Even though the Tejas can run at 200kmph, it will not be able to clock its maximum speed as the Mumbai-Ahmedabad route has a speed limit of 130kmph.”
 
 Another official said, “The train will depart from Mumbai early in the morning around the Shatabdi’s departure time. Also, it will have to depart from Ahmedabad around 2pm so that it arrives by 5pm.”
 
 More than 20 services operate between these two destinations, including the Shatabdi, Duronto and mail/express, but passenger demand on this route has not ebbed.
 
 Deepak Gori, a passenger, said, “It is thanks to the Modi government that we are getting a train with so many facilities.” Another said, “I want to check what they are serving others and then book a meal on board. I do not mind paying extra for it. Neelam Surve, housewife, who took the train to Ratnagiri, said, “I was frustrated after getting waitlisted tickets due to a rush for trains along the Konkan route. It was my luck that the railway ministry announced the run of Tejas Express from May 22.” Bharat Podar, who runs a jewellery business here, said, “I usually travel by the Shatabdi Express but this is better.”
 
  “The experience is like a plane, we will take it again while returning,” said Vipul Jain, who was traveling with his wife Priya. 
 
 
 
 
 The inaugural run was delayed as Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu could not reach the venue, Dadar, on time to flag off the train via video-conferencing. The train departed at 4.05pm, instead of its scheduled departure time of 3.25pm. Regreting the delay, Prabhu said, “My flight could not land on time due to an emergency declared at Mumbai airport because of a technical snag in a Mumbai- Bhubaneshwar flight.” —Inputs by Somit Sen & Anmol Alphonso 
 
 
