Youngsters today don’t just indulge in talks about the changes they wish to see but believe in standing up and speaking out loud. On  , BT visited city colleges and spoke to students about the one change they wish to bring about in the world around them. Read on...

 > In the aftermath of the Bengaluru mass molestation, these youngsters had a clear and loud message for the society — we must work towards a safer environment for women, 24*7. Ria Risbood, Mihika Shenoy and Esha Ibrampurkar from   did not need more than a second to scream out their message. “We are young and ambitious. We want to live our life to the fullest, without any fear of harassment,” they said in unison. We agree! 
 
 > It’s high time women start encouraging each other. If we don’t support each other, who else will?
 Ritik says, “Your body fixes every wound, every broken bone and fights off so many illnesses even without you knowing about it. What is it asking in a return? 
 Nothing but just your love.” — Rupal Shah and Ritik Parmar,  
 
 > We’ve all become so serious and take everything seriously. It would be nice if we could take jokes well and have a better sense of humour. The entire country needs to be more tolerant and not take everything to heart. We’re trying our best to not be so sensitive and laugh at ourselves. — Ayushi Bansal, Saloni Jyala and Priya Shah,  
 
  
  > As a teenager, we’re always told that a girl and boy can’t be just friends. There is always something more to it. We’re trying our best to break this stereotype. I and many girls like me have male pals and we have nothing more than just friendship. — Nasha Baria, Jai Hind College
 
 > We should get a chance to work on live projects so we may enhance our skills and get a job in hand once we’re out of college. The trend is such, that to bag a job, you need experience. On our part, we are trying our best to get an internship during our vacations so we have some practical skills. — Narendra Goyal, Bhavna Chaurasia and Rohan Biswal, KC College
 
 > We should embrace the expanse of culture in our country, since India is the only nation with such diverse population. 
 Says Aayushi, “Everyone has to realise that not everyone is perfect. We should all learn to love ourselves and people should accept us the way we are.” — Aman Mohan and Aayushi Shah, Mithibai College
 
  
  > Due to new infrastructure and smaller campuses, there’s absolutely no space for us to participate in outdoor games and activities. As we grow, that’s one reason why many students’ interest in sports starts declining. — Kiran Yadav, Riya Sharma, KC College
 
 > The stares and catcalls when I wear shorts or a sleeveless top have driven me to a breaking point. The only way girls can put an end to this is by not bowing down. The idea is to stand tall in our little shorts. — Rifka Romani, Jai Hind College
 
 > When we look around, we see how people mistreat animals, especially strays and that’s quite disheartening. We want to sensitise people against animal cruelty. — Malina Mandavkar and Akshay,  
 
  
  
 > I have friends who are bisexuals and by not judging them, I’m doing my bit. Adds Varun, "The need of the hour is to get rid of gender discrimination. I’m an active member of the college’s cultural activities, and through our events, word-of-mouth and social media, I try spreading the thought as much as I can." — Darshita Shah and Varun Vithalani, Mithibai College
 
 > It’s high time women start encouraging each other. If we don’t support each other, who else will? Ritik says, “Your body fixes every wound, every broken bone and fights off so many illnesses even without you knowing about it. What is it asking in a return? Nothing but just your love.” — Rupal Shah and Ritik Parmar, Mithibai College
 
