Furious because of the rejection of his   on a  , a 40-year-old man opted for   of the dirty kind. He put up the profile of the woman on an  , offering dubious services.

 Now she has been flooded with calls, and has had to approach the cyber crime police to put an end to them.
 
 Police said the victim is a   in her mid-thirties, staying with her parents in the city.She is divorced.
 
 She got her name registered in a matrimonial site for suitable matches. She had been getting profiles of interested grooms by email or telephone. One of them was Sanjeev (name changed). She had made some basic enquiries about his profession, qualification and other details.
 
 “On January 1, he called her to know about her opinion on his profile, if she liked it or not.She clearly told him that after discussing his profile with her family members, she found it not suitable and was hence not interested in his profile. He then asked her if they could continue to be friends. As she did not understand what he meant, she asked him to explain properly, and he said that he wanted to have sex with her. She warned him not to call her again or else she would be reporting the matter to the police,“ said an officer part of investigations.
 
 Sanjeev is then alleged to have started threatening her, claiming that he would her spoil her reputation. He kept harassing her and the doctor warned him several times not to harass her, to which he insisted she accept his proposal or get into a physical relationship with him.When she refused, he threatened her he would make her identity public and to get ready for `calls'.
 
 “From the first week of January, she started receiving calls from unknown numbers.She has received calls from nearly 100 men claiming that they got her number from some person. Some claimed that they found her number on an online classified portal. She even received a message with an internet link, that showed an advertisement with the subject that `she is interested in sex and interested people can contact her'. With the screenshots of the advertisement, the victim approached the police,“ the officer said.
 
 Sanjeev had named her and given her address in the advertisement. The police have registered a case under various sections of the Information Technology Act of 2000. “We have written to the portal to furnish documents. Even though we have complete details of the accused, there is no proof to show that he was the one who posted the advertisement. If the documents suggest that Sanjeev is the one who posted the advertisement, then he will be booked and sent to jail,“ the officer added.
 
 
 
 
