PUNE: A 50-year-old  , who had gone to see a sample flat at an under-construction   here, died after she fell from the ninth floor of the building on Tuesday evening.
Police have registered a case under section 304(A) of the IPC (causing death by negligence) against four employees of the builder. “It was an accident and prima facie it is suspected that the woman lost her balance and fell,“ said senior inspector   of the  .
 
 The woman, Anushree Pande, died on the spot after she landed on an iron roof on the first floor of the building.The police said she sustained head injuries and broke both her hands and right leg. Pande's husband, Ashutosh, runs an engineering firm. His partner, Madhav Kane, told TOI that Pande had come to the firm's office located at Bavdhan around noon to give her husband his lunchbox. “Ashutosh was in my cabin when we got information about her death,“ he said, adding that he had heard that the Pandes were looking out for a new flat.
 
 Pande's brother-in-law, Kamlesh, said, “When the police checked her cell phone, they found that I was the last person she had called in the afternoon. We had discussed the preparation for my father's death anniversary,“ he said.
 
 Sandeep Patil, purchase manager at the site, said Pande had come to the housing scheme -45, Nirvana Hills -around 3 pm to see the sample flat. “We took her to the four-bedroom flat on the ninth floor.She had called around 10.30am to fix the appointment,“ he said.
 
 Patil said he and a colleague showed Pande the flat. “We explained how the flat would look after the site was completed and the amenities on offer. The woman then told us that her daughters also wanted to see the flat. She requested us to go down and fetch them. We told her to come with us in the passenger lift. However, she said she wanted to stay in the flat and have a closer look,“ he said.
 
 Patil said he kept a security guard along with the woman and went down to fetch the girls. “However, no sooner had my colleague and I gone down than we heard a thud. We ran up to the first floor and found the woman lying on the iron roof,“ he said.
 
 Patil said he can't say how Pande could have fallen from the ninth floor. “We have taken all precautions at the construction site. We have a safety net all around the structure. There are a few gaps, but these are covered with rods. It is not possible to cover the space near the lift since it would hinder its movement. The woman fell in that very space,“ he said.
 
 Assistant police inspector Mahesh Bansode, who is investigating the case, said a plumber was working on the ninth floor. “After seeing Pande alone on the floor, he asked her if she wanted to go downstairs as he had the keys of the passenger lift. The plumber says Pande told her that she would like to stay on the ninth floor,“ he said.
 
 Bansode said Pande could have been standing close to the edge of the floor and lost her balance.“There were no safety grills on the floor which could have averted the accident,“ he said.
 
 The building has a seven-level parking after which the residential floors are being constructed.
 
 Pande lived at Kapila Malhar Society in Baner.Her two daughters are pursuing their studies.
 
