NAGPUR: Even as   dropped its most ambitious plan to   under political pressure, many   approached   for its introduction from this academic year. A delegation of about 50 colleges met VC and submitted a detailed representation in this regard.

 Ironically, a majority of private and aided colleges staunchly opposed Kane’s dream project, which would have taken NU at par with Mumbai and Pune universities, which had adopted this system long back. “Even I was surprised, but this is a positive sign from the colleges. All of them are however private colleges and not aided by the government,” Kane told TOI.
 
 He added that the managements of these colleges had realized that they too can improve their performance by conducting exams at their levels. “We could implement the system in next academic year (2018-19). By that time, we expect more colleges to join the bandwagon of these colleges,” he said.
 
 He however flayed these colleges stating that they should have made their stand clear when colleges under ‘Principals Forum’ had opposed his move tooth and nail. 
 
 TOI, on June 15 had first published about NU dropping its 50:50 pattern plans after facing wrath of aided colleges, who expressed inability to conduct exams at their level. A big delegation of ‘Principals Forum’ under senior academician Baban Taywade met the VC for informing him about their difficulties which they termed ‘genuine’. 
 
 They cited lack of qualified teachers, non-teaching staff and even the infrastructure as their reason for opposition. They clarified that unless the government sanctioned more posts for teachers, they wouldn’t be able to conduct the exams, as only a single or a couple of teachers would have to do the entire work, right from paper setting to evaluation.
 
 Interestingly, all statutory bodies of NU had cleared the proposal, but the decision to drop it was taken at the last moment as colleges refused to cooperate. 
 
 A panel constituted under pro-VC Pramod Yeole had framed modalities of new exam system last year and even submitted its report in February. After clearance from the academic and management councils, only a notification remained to be issued to implement it. 
 
 The system would have gone a long way in reducing the burden on the over-stretched exam system and also put some responsibility on the colleges. The university had even made a provision to allow contributory teachers to evaluate answer sheets, considering the shortage of teachers. 
 
 Officials from   told TOI that the administration had lost a golden chance to bring about a revolution in the entire system. According to them, the current system had become obsolete. Moreover, there were evaluation and other problems that led to most of results being delayed, except this year.
 
 Last time, Taywade told TOI that severe faculty shortage would make it impossible for them to set the question papers, evaluate answer sheets and conduct revaluation. Citing ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’, he clarified that a teacher setting papers can’t evaluate answer sheets while latter couldn’t do revaluation.
 
 
