GURGAON: The director of a city-based   was booked for allegedly failing to register students with the parent institute, thus making them ineligible to appear for examination, police said on Friday. An FIR was registered against  , the director of Gurgaon branch of  , after students filed a complaint at Civil Lines police station, alleging that they were duped by the institute.

 Shalu, one of the students, said she had enrolled in the institute in October after paying Rs 96,000. “We have been asking for our admit card for the last few months, but have been receiving no reply from the institute authorities,” she said. “Finally, we went to the head office in Delhi’s  , where we were told that the franchise in Gurgaon had not paid the registration fees,” she said.
 
 When pursued the matter with Anila Sharma, one of the employees of the institute, students said, they were told that their registration process would be completed by March 31. However, no steps were taken by the institute to enroll their names so far, students alleged.
 
 The students then met Aggarwal, who is now on interim bail after police arrested him on Thursday. Aggarwal, students alleged, assured them of paying the dues, but “didn’t do it” till April 4, following which they along with parents approached police.
 
 Pushpa Kataria, another student who enrolled in the institute in November, had paid Rs 95,000 in cash to the institute. When she went to the head office in Hauz Khas, she found out that the payment had to be made through cheque or a demand draft, raising the suspicions that Aggarwal “pocketed the money without paying the dues to the parent institute”.
 
 Pushpa alleged that Aggarwal could not be contacted though she tried to talk to him. “A few teachers quit the institute, claiming that they were not paid by Aggarwal, and our portions have not been completed,” she said.
 
 “Now, the head office is asking us for the registration fee, which is around Rs 20,000. Why should we pay again if we have already paid once?” she told TOI. 
 
 Acting on the complaint of students, a case was registered against Rahul Aggarwal and Anila Singh under sections 406(criminal breach of trust) and 420(cheating) in Civil Lines police station. Inspector Aman Singh, in-charge of the Sector 14 police post, said Aggarwal was granted interim bail by the court after he promised to pay the registration amount by the April 17.
 
 Police said Aggarwal collected around Rs 25 lakh from 30 students of the institute. A few other students, when contacted by TOI, said they did not want their money returned, instead wanted to complete their course and appear for the exam.
 
