KOZHIKODE/THRISSUR: The family of Jishnu Pranoy, the first year BTech student who was found hanging at the hostel of   of Engineering and Research Centre at Pambady in Thrissur, has alleged that crucial evidence against P Krishnadas, the first accused in the case, was destroyed during the early stages of investigation.

 Addressing the media at their residence at Valayam on Thursday, they demanded the state government to approach the   against the high court order granting anticipatory bail to Krishnadas, the chairman and managing trustee of the Nehru College of Educational and Charitable Trust.
 
 “Vital evidence against Krishnadas, including the   visuals, were destroyed during the early stages of the investigation with the connivance of local police. Doctors who conducted the post mortem on Jishnu’s body also destroyed evidence. It was these lapses which made the high court make the observation that there was no evidence against Krishnadas,” said Jishnu’s uncle Sreejith K K. 
 
 The press conference which was also attended by Jishnu’s parents Mahija and Ashokan K P.
 
 Mahija said the family will meet chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and submit a five-point memorandum demanding action against the police officers and doctors.
 
 All the five accused in the case have been charged with abetment of suicide, criminal conspiracy, forgery for the purpose of cheating and causing hurt.
 
 Meanwhile, the Thrissur principal district and sessions judge Annie John on Thursday dismissed the anticipatory bail application of Sanjith Viswanathan, the second accused and PRO of the college.
 
 District government pleader K D Babu said that the judge upheld the prosecution’s argument that Sanjith is very powerful and has financial clout, and if he was granted bail he would influence the course of investigation and weaken the case.
 
 The prosecution argued that the college management had prior enmity towards Jishnu as he had raised his voice against their “illegal activities”. 
 
 The management then implicated Jishnu in a false examination copying case and mentally tortured him by threatening that he would be debarred in the third semester.
 
 Babu said the prosecution had submitted a testimony of Ajmal Roshan, a fellow student, who had stated that he had seen Jishnu emerging from Sanjith’s room with tears in his eyes and blood oozing from his mouth.
 
