NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) ambitious 24x7   project is set to miss the deadline.

 With only two months left before the deadline expires, only 4% households are getting round-the-clock water supply. Therefore, private operator   (OCW) that is executing the project has sought extension of two years.
 
 Actually, the main deadline has been already missed to a great extent. The   government had approved the project worth Rs387.86 crore under JNNURM and set a deadline of March 31, 2012. However, the project began around the deadline period. Then, the civic body started to consider deadline set in the agreement entered into with OCW. This deadline will come to an end on February 28.
 
 As per the NMC’s data, special purpose vehicle   ( ) had approved a list of 11,935 households getting 24x7 water supply. The target is to ensure round-the-clock water supply to 3,090,41 households. Now, it is almost impossible to meet the deadline.
 
 To ensure 24x7 water supply, OCW was supposed to lay household service connections (HSC) at 3,090,41 houses and water network of 757.77km. But the two major works were delayed to a large extent.
 
 The inordinate delay in completion of the project will result into escalation in its cost, which will eventually burden water consumers. The approved project cost is Rs 387.86 crore. Already, an estimation has been prepared that the project cost may increase to Rs 566.09 crore in case of delay.
 
 Sanjay Gaikwad, executive engineer in the NMC, told TOI that there were various reasons behind the delay in completing the project. “OCW submitted an application seeking two years’ extension. We are going through the application and appropriate decision will be taken by the civic chief,” he said.
 
 The NMC is suppose to levy various types of penalties on OCW after completion of five years. OCW can escape from the penalties if given an extension.
 
 However, an OCW official claimed that over 15% households were getting 24x7 water supply. The official said the major reasons behind the delay was discontinuation of JNNURM and non-completion of Pench-IV water supply project on time.
 
 “The drive to regularize illegal connections and HSCs is being not supported in many areas. OCW improved services to a great extent. The first target was equitable distribution of water. Some areas were getting water round-the-clock water, some only 6-8 hours in a day, some on alternate days and some not a single drop,” he said.
 
 “NMC and OCW turned 150 areas from literally ‘no-water to water’. Now, water has been reached nearly 1,51,303 people. OCW also succeeded in improving water tanker management. Water quality has improved by regular cleaning of reservoirs and other practices,” he added.
 
 
