LODHVA ( ): Bhagvan Solanki’s dream to fight the country’s enemies was shattered due to an accident that forced him to retire from the Army. But he has now waged a full-fledged war against the enemy within. 

 Solanki, a farmer’s son, is now fighting to save the coastal environment from the illegal mining and deadly pollution from factories in and around his Lodhva village near  . 
 
 He suffered physical disability during training in Assam and had to retire from the Army after serving for just 22 months.
 
 “When I returned to my village from the Army, I saw that farmers along the   coast are suffering due to illegal mining that has resulted in severe salinity ingress. To add to their problems, various factories are releasing toxic fumes too. I saw people standing in queue at government offices to represent their problems but nothing was done for them. I started using RTI on various issues including illegal mining and pollution,’’   told TOI. 
 
 Last year, Bhagvan’s RTI application on fencing around mining sites revealed that none of the lease holders fence the mines, which poses grave threats to wild animals like lions and leopards are found in significant numbers here.
 
 “The villages are close to Gir Wildlife Sanctuary and wild animals are regularly spotted in villages of Sutrapada and Kodinar. Few months ago, a vehicle carrying mined material crushed a leopard to death and tried to destroy evidence. I filed an RTI to know how many mines are covered with fence and it was revealed that none had. There are over 81 limestone leases in Gir-Somnath district,” he said. 
 
 Lodhva then filed an RTI with Directorate General of Mines Safety and sought their response. Their teams carried out field inspections and found truth in his findings. They advised the local office to take Lodhva along for inspection too.
 
 “Now, some mine owners have started fencing but fight is still on,” Solanki said. 
 
 Solanki’s tenacity over a mining lease issue also exposed how   (GPCB) failed to take any action against polluting units. 
 
 
