Hyderabad:  , a subsidiary of German auto giant Porsche AG that specialises in IT and process consulting in the automotive and manufacturing sectors, on Wednesday said it has entered into its first ever global partnership with Hyderabad-based design automation (DA) startup Invilogic Software and its German arm -- ENIT Invilogic GmbH -- to develop design automation solutions.

 Under the partnership, the three companies will jointly develop cutting edge DA technologies that will help cut down on product complexity and design time by more than 90% for the auto and manufacturing industries worldwide. The partnership will help integrate DA technology to automate product development with a seamless integration into CAD, PLM and Enterprise IT tools.
 
 The aim is to drive seamless integration from customer requirements to design documents till assembly, which can fulfil those requirements within constraints of cost, time, packaging and optimisation, said Michael Kirchgässner, head of R&D transformation at MHP.
 
 “We believe Invilogic’s design automation capabilities, both in India and Germany, will complement our growth and customer consulting strategy across markets and industries,” he added. 
 
 “With so much complexity, variety, time and cost pressures on the design department, knowledge-based engineering (KBE) combining artificial intelligence and programming can bring in design automation that can reduce 90% of the design efforts and make engineering quite easy and fast,” said Siddharth Durairajan, CEO, Invilogic Software.
 
 Talking about the Hyderabad-based Invilogic Software’s expansion plans, promoter director Sreenivasa Musani said plans are afoot to expand operations in India and Germany and grow its workforce from the existing 40 to 120 over the next 12 months to consolidate and accelerate global market share.
 
 Invilogic Software, which has invested $1.5 million on product development programs in India in the last 36 months, will continue to invest in growing its software services research and development capabilities in Hyderabad, Bangalore, Pune and Germany, he added. 
 
 Invilogic which has a portfolio of 38 products and aims to add 10 more in the next two years.
 
 The Germany headquartered MHP, in which Porsche AG holds 81.8% stake, has 13 offices in 6 countries and provides consulting services and support to over 300 companies worldwide.
 
 
