NAGPUR: The directorate of higher education, Pune, has issued a notice to the city’s Green Heaven’s College over holding back of educational documents of a Bachelor of Education (BEd) student. On January 19, TOI had reported how the college was violating University Grants Commission ( ) directives regarding admissions besides harassing the student by demanding the entire year’s fee. 

 In a letter dated March 31, 2017, the department told the college, “Review the complaint and take action by referring the attached letter immediately and submit a report,” 
 
 As the college is affiliated to the  , she had also written to the vice chancellor but no action has been taken by the varsity so far. 
 
 The college principal and the trust secretary both didn’t respond to TOI calls. 
 
 The aggrieved BEd student Vidhi   had written to the directorate after the college refused to release her documents when she reconsidered her decision pursue the course from the institute. 
 
 “The college refused to release my original documents untill I pay the full fees,” Mehta said. 
 
 On October 31, 2015, she paid Rs2,250 as partial fee and submitted originals of BCom I, II and III year mark sheets, college leaving certificate, SSC and HSC marklists, BEd entrance scorecard and hall ticket. Her chosen college was Green Heaven College of Education, located at Rui Zari off  .
 
 A couple of days later, Mehta approached the college and expressed her inability to join the course since she was moving out of the city. She requested the college to release her original documents. However, the college told her to pay the entire BEd first-year tuition fee to get the documents.
 
 As per UGC norms, an institution can’t hold back documents and force a student to pay the entire fee if s/he withdraws admission. In May 2016, UGC secretary Jaspal S Sandhu had written to vice chancellors across the country, saying that retaining original certificates and forcing retention of admitted students limited the opportunity of candidates to join other institutions.
 
 UGC had also asked educational institutions to only deduct a processing fee of not more than Rs1,000 and refund the rest in such cases. It had also asked institutions not to retain the original certificates of candidates.
 
 On May 18, 2016, on returning to the city, Mehta again wrote to Green Heaven, seeking release of her documents. In a reply two days later, the college again asked her to pay the entire tuition fee.
 
