HYDERABAD: The   in the city of pearls may no longer be so gungho about parking their moolah in gold, but they are definitely stepping on the gas, lapping up high-end luxury cars be it Bentleys, Rolls Royce, Lamborghinis, Mercs, Audis, BMWs or Jaguars.

 If figures provided by the  , Hyderabad, and   are anything to go by, the  , priced over Rs 40 lakh, has hit the fast lane, racing to a three-year high during the 2016-17 financial year.
 
 The sales of   in the city has already shot up to 250-270 per month (around 3,000-3,300 for the year) in 2016-17, registering a 15% jump over 2015-16, RTA officials said, adding that of these, at least 200 were sold in the ultra-luxury segment in the Rs 1crore to Rs 6 crore bracket. Industry sources say that the Hyderabad market for luxury cars is growing at a faster clip than Bengaluru and Chennai going by the number of cars whizzing out of car showrooms and if things move at this pace, Hyderabad may well race past Bengaluru, which currently stands third in buying luxury cars after Mumbai and Delhi.
 
 "Apart from Tollywood stars, producers, directors and scriptwriters, pharma barons and promoters of infrastructure giants are the main buyers of ultra-luxury cars, nearly 20 of which are being sold each month," said J Pandurang Na ik, Joint Transport Commissioner, Hyderabad.
 
 Car dealers point out that cars in the Rs 40 lakh to Rs 70 lakh price range are the fastest moving in the luxury segment with buyers hailing from various age groups. “Starting from 25-year-olds, which includes young, upwardly mobile techies and promoters of startups, to those in the 50-55 age bracket are queuing up to buy their dream cars. The easy availability of finance has only accelerated this trend over the past three years," said the marketing manager of a luxury car dealership.
 
 Another reason for the jump in sales could be the fact that most of the buyers of luxury cars like to upgrade every three years on an average, industry sources said.
 
 White preferred colour of luxury!
 
 Even when it comes to lux ury cars, white remains the favourite colour, followed by black and grey. White is the quickest selling colour not just in Hyderabad but cutting across cities.
 
 Apart from being easyto-maintain, buyers also believe white is more suitable to endure high temperatures in the city. "Out of 10 buyers, six go for white, while three go for black or grey.White is most sought after also because it offers the best resale value with most second hand car buyers perferring it," said manager of a luxury car showroom.
 
 Red is among the least preferred colours though a favourite in mid-segment and sports car category. 
 
