CHANDIGARH: The   on Tuesday issued notice to the Ambala police on the anticipatory bail plea of Balinder Kumar, one of the accused of abetment to suicide case of Baljeet Singh, who had allegedly collected around Rs 90 lakh from youths and paid for employment in the Haryana assembly.

 Balinder has approached the HC after a local court in Ambala had refused to grant him anticipatory bail. Justice Inderjeet Singh of the HC has asked the Ambala police to file their reply on the Balinder’s bail plea by January 27.
 
 A resident of Nanyari village in Saharanpur district in Uttar Pradesh, Balinder had allegedly forced deceased Baljeet, a resident of Saha Kamleshpur village in Ambala district, to sign some documents and stamp papers. Baljeet had consumed Celphos and died during treatment at   and Hospital, Chandigarh, on December 24, 2016. 
 
 In his statement made to the police before his death, Baljeet had alleged that Balinder had forcefully taken some signed stamp papers from him. He had also revealed the names of some other person whom he had paid money for getting jobs of some youths in Haryana assembly. 
 
 In his anticipatory bail application, Balinder has claimed that he was falsely implicated in this case and has been booked for abetment to suicide merely on the basis of the statement made by the deceased.
 
 Earlier on Janaury 12, a local court in Ambala had dismissed Balinder’s bail plea observing that the case relates to providing employment in the assembly, Haryana against consideration and custodial interrogation of petitioner in this case is must.
 
 “It is not a simple case of repayment of the amount, allegedly paid by petitioner or asking for repayment, but it is clear that petitioner along with other co-accused have created such circumstances that Baljeet Singh committed suicide. Even if case of petitioner that he was asking for refund of the amount, is accepted in its entirety, the same cannot be endorsed by this Court, as petitioner is also involved in illegal act of getting employment against consideration”, judge had hold while dismissing his bail plea.
 
 
