MANGALURU: The deteriorating   situation across Karnataka in general and Bengaluru and DK district in particular and failure to roll out adequate   will be the focal point of discussion in forthcoming   of the legislature. The government has completely failed on these fronts, B S Yeddyurappa, president of state unit of   said adding that government is pointing fingers at the Centre over drought relief to cover up its failures.

 Noting that BJP workers are being targeted in the state, Yeddyurappa said police have failed to nab the perpetrators of these attacks in most cases. Instead, police are foisting false counter cases against BJP workers for obvious political reasons, Yeddyurappa said referring to a recent instance in Moodbidri where local BJP leaders were named in an FIR in a counter case registered to their complaint of assault against local BJP leader in the aftermath of APMC elections.
 
 Accusing state government of not utilizing drought relief funds released by the centre, the former CM said the party unit is committed to approaching the centre for more funds if the state effectively utilizes funds already allocated. Demanding that the state clarify on the amount spent out of central allocation and its own share of funding for drought relief, Yeddyurappa said the BJP will undertake second round of visits to the drought prone areas once the state budget session is over.
 
 “I will urge all BJP MPs/MLAs hailing from drought hit areas to use their local area development funds to ameliorate conditions of people in the drought affected areas,” he said adding if need be the party will collect funds from people as it did during the 2009 deluge to help those in distress. The government should also waive agriculture loans availed by farmers in the cooperative sector to provide relief to them in this time of severe distress, Yeddyurappa demanded.
 
 On the Yettinahole issue, Yeddyurappa maintained that the state government must convince all stakeholders about availability of quantum of water that the state government is projecting will be available and only then go ahead in implementing it. “There is no confusion in our stand on the issue either in Kolar or in DK,” the former CM said adding excess water if available should be used to help people in the parched districts and not at cost of people in DK district.
 
