Thiruvananthapuram: More than 100 bags of waste, mostly plastic, were collected in the one-day waste collection drive conducted at the   beach by the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) on Monday. Around 450 activists and volunteers took part in the drive which was conducted jointly with the help of BSF guards, students from city-based schools and clubs. 

 As many as 67 BSF guards, 65 NSS student volunteers from All Saints College, 300 NCC and SPC student volunteers from Cotton Hill Higher Secondary School, 70 activists from the KSSP and members of the Lions Club took part in the cleaning drive. 
 
 “We had collected more than hundred bags and most of them were plastic material like discarded ice cream cups, wrappers and covers of snacks and bottles of aerated drinks. It was alarming because we collected so many bags of waste that was accumulated in just one day. Also, a major part of these   has already reached deep sea which is even more dangerous,” said Pradeep P, secretary, Thiruvananthapuram zone, KSSP.
 
 An awareness class, led by A Bijukumar, professor, department of aquatic biology and fisheries at the Kerala University, on the after-effects of dumping waste in the ocean was also conducted as part of the drive. “The biggest issue we are facing now is the micro plastic being dumped in the sea. People who continue to dump waste in the ocean are unaware about the intensity of the damage it creates. Nowadays, ghost fishing is prevalent in Vizhinjam, Kovalam and Sanghumukham as the marine debris is causing death of a large number of marine animals,” Bijukumar said.
 
 Meanwhile, DTPC secretary Prasanth T V said that continuous awareness programmes are the only possible way to reduce the plastic waste at Sanghumukham. “We collect around 45 sacks of waste on a daily basis and we have deployed 22 Kudumbashree workers for that. It is not possible to ask the wayside vendors to use plastic-free ice-cream cups and bottles because they are very costly. We have placed waste bins everywhere and we send the plastic waste to shredding units and food waste to farms on a daily basis. We are also planning alternative measures to tackle the issue of discarding plastic cups,” said Prasanth.
 
 The waste collection drive which began at 7.30am concluded by 10am. It was conducted as the second phase of Ocean waste management programmes launched in June in connection with the World Ocean Day. Harithakeralam mission vice chairperson T N Seema was the chief guest.
 
 
