Are you tired of the same dull and monotonous setting of your workspace? If yes, then these   can transform your office and add a pop of colour to it. Several corporate   and workspaces in the city are undergoing a revamp and are opting for quirky and colourful settings, thereby making the   lively and fun.

 
 
 Jay Shankar and Vishnu Ambat of Kalakarah, who have transformed several corporate spaces in Bengaluru, say that this trend is catching on in the city and is here to stay. The duo works with a team of 10-12 artists and is known for their wall art. “A lot of offices are now approaching us for wall art. Employers like to create a relaxed and calm environment and don’t mind adding quirky designs and colours to their office interiors. Wall art, as compared to a wall paper, adds more meaning and depth,” says Jay.
 
 
 
 How difficult is it for these artists to shift from the canvas and create a work of art on a wall? Bengaluru-based artist Baadal Nanjundaswamy says that not much changes except the surface on which he paints. Baadal, who has also worked on several corporate spaces, says that the only hurdle he faces is the time frame. “When I paint on a canvas, I can do so according to my desire and at my own pace. But when working for offices, you have to meet deadlines,” he says.
 
 There’s a lot of brainstorming that goes into creating that perfect wall art. “As an artist, you need to understand the brand and its culture before you set out to work. A lot of companies want to convey their story or a message through the paintings and you need to identify with the same,” says Parul Kanodia, graphic designer and illustrator. While many opt for abstract art, paintings of famous personalities and theme-based art are also hot favourites. A few even give a free hand to the artists to do their thing. “Since the surface changes, the painting becomes 10 times bigger than a canvas and we need to pay attention to every little detail. First we make a digital rough sketch and show it to the client. Once it is approved, we replicate it on the wall,” says Jay.
 
 
 
 
 Creating a piece of art in corporate spaces gives artists a lot of exposure. “Wall art has a lot of visibility. Since it is quirky and fun, one cannot miss it. In addition to this, people have begun appreciating art and the hardwork that has gone behind it,” adds Parul. Vishnu says that these paintings also create employment and job opportunities for artists, who can showcase their skills on a larger scale. It is also a challenge for artists to create a unique piece of art every single time.
 
 
 
 
 Product designer Avantika Agarwal says that offices are getting away from the cubicle set up. “A quirky and a fun setting conveys the message that ‘not all jobs have to be at your desk’,” says Avantika. Apart from adding colour to the office, wall paintings also help in creating a brand value. “The kind of work we do is displayed on the wall. The client understands what sort of work we deal with the moment they enter the office. Plus, it helps in better productivity at work,” says Yashas Jagadeesh, co-founder of a company whose office boasts large wall paintings. Maria Bobelia, an art director in the city agrees and adds, “Wall arts are unique and vibrant. It makes the office a fun place. People show more interest to work in such places as it reduces stress,” she says.
 
 
