VELLORE: A 37-year-old   reportedly attempted suicide after the   run by village elders (oor nattamai) fined him Rs 50,000 for approaching police in connection with a   with his brothers.

  had a dispute over the partition of his ancestral property of 3acres of agricultural land in Melpallathur village in Pullur panchayat. He had been raising crops in a portion of the land given by his father Kanagappan on the land for the past 14 years.
 
 A month ago, his elder brothers Ravi and Mahendran quarrelled with Ramesh over the land. Ramesh’s brothers and their friends reportedly assaulted him on June 18. He was admitted in the Vaniyambadi Government Hospital for a few days. “I filed a case against my brothers, one of the sisters-in-law Nalini, my brothers’ friend Tirupathi for assaulting me,” said Ramesh.
 
 Police registered a case and conducted an inquiry. On learning about this, village elders summoned Ramesh’s family and his brothers to the Kangaroo Court. “They asked me to pay Rs 400 for informing the villagers about the kangaroo court on Thursday. I did so. When inquiring the issue, the nattamai told that they will share the three acre of land and make partition. However, I insisted that I want the portion given to me by my father 14 years ago,” said Ramesh.
 
 Irked over this, the village elders reportedly slapped a fine of Rs 50,000 for approaching the police and filing case against his brothers. “They threatened me that they will ostracise my family, if I refuse to obey their diktat,” he alleged.
 
 A group of persons had also reportedly threatened to kill him when he was returning from the market on Friday night. “Unable to withstand the humiliation and series of threats, I decided to end my life and consumed over 15 tablets on Friday night and fainted,” he added.
 
 Ramesh’s family members rushed him to the Vaniyambadi government hospital where his condition is said to be stable. The farmer filed a complaint against the nattamai Thangavel and a few other village elders and his brothers for threatening and forcing him to take the extreme step. 
 
 Mahendran, however, denied his younger brother’s allegations and said the village elders wanted to find an amicable solution. He also agreed to the village elders, but later disagreed to that. “The village elders told my brother to share the property equally that has road access to everyone. But he is not agreeing to this,” he said and also admitted that the village elders warned him for acting against the village elders verdict. 
 
