VADODARA:  , India's women's cricket team coach, can't stop singing  's praises. Understandably so, since Harmanpreet's scintillating 171-run knock off 115 balls helped India beat Australia and cruise to the final of the World Cup, where England await as the last hurdle. Arothe is of the view that the extremely talented Harmanpreet's stint in the   in Australia last year improved her game and helped her size up the opposition.

 
 
 "If there was a women's IPL,   Kaur would have been its brand ambassador. It was one of the best innings I have ever seen. It was a treat to watch her play," Arothe told TOI over phone from England. "I had told her that if she manages to get a boundary or a six in an over then convert it into at least about 12 runs in that over. She went on to collect about 17 to 18 runs per over, which was fantastic. I also told her that she needs to be there till the end for the team to post a big total. She was very happy and thanked me when she returned to the dressing room.
  
  
 
 
 
 "Harmanpreet and Smriti Mandhana had played in the Big Bash League in Australia last year so they knew Australian cricketers and their game well. When Australian batswoman Elyse Villani walked in the middle, Smriti said 'kuch bhi karke isko out karna hain' (we have to bowl her out anyhow). And we also had a strategy for it," Arothe said.
 
 Arothe, 50, has coached the Indian women's cricket team twice in the past. Being the first cricketer from Baroda to play 100 Ranji Trophy games, Arothe began his stint with women's cricket when he was given the job of coaching the Baroda women's team.
 
 Speaking about the World Cup journey, Arothe said that the team had begun preparations during the South Africa tour itself. "The team was bit hesitant when the World Cup started but we took it one game at a time. Our focus was on getting maximum runs in the power play and limiting opponent's runs during their bat ting power play. It worked for us."
 
 Asked about the team's preparations for the World Cup final, Arothe said, "Playing a World Cup final, that too at Lord's, is like a dream come true. Of course, the team is excited to be in the final but we are not taking much pressure. Also, we have beaten England in the league series so the girls are confident."
 
 Asked whether he would give a pep talk to the girls before they enter the ground, much like in the Chak De India movie in which Shah Rukh Khan eggs on a women's hockey team, Arothe laughed.
 
 "I can't talk like him. He is a great actor. But there will be a pep talk."
 
 
