Indore: The lives of Ratna (name changed), of Adarsh Bijasan Nagar in Pardeshipura area, and her two kids have ended in pieces since her husband died in 2012.

 A property broker by profession, her husband was an occasional drinker but gradually grew addicted to the bottle. According to what doctors told Ratna, her husband died due of alcoholic cardiomyopathy.
 
 “I lost everything I had. My husband, property and respect in society. Now, I have the sole responsibility of raising my children and I have to work as a domestic help,” she said.
 
 She added that she would extend her support in the ongoing protest against a   shop in Pardeshipura area.
 
 Some residents of the area on Wednesday started a protest as a medium to mount pressure on authorities to remove a liquor shop from the locality.
 
 “The protest is for a good cause and even if one liquor shop is opened, it can destroy hundreds of families. After I finish work, I lend my support at the protest,” she said.
 
 Like Ratna, women of other localities like Jawahar Tekari, Kanadia Road, Ayodhyapuri and Gawali Palasia have reasons to raise their voice against liquor shops shifting in to their localities.
 
 In a week, people from all walks of life have come forward to extend their support in the agitation against liquor shops, including politicians from both the major political parties.
 
 Congress MLA Jitu Patwari has criticised a liquor shop shifting into Kandia Road. Following an agitation led by Patwari four days ago, the contractor had to shut his liquor shop for a day.
 
 “Around 80 per cent of the youth are inclined towards liquor consumption. The state government should put a ban on selling liquor,” Patwari told TOI. He added that the protest against this liquor shop would intensify.
 
 BJP MLA from Indore-I, Sudarshan Gupta on Tuesday led a protest against a liquor shop in Ayodhyapuri area. With a large number of women from different colonies on Aerodrome Road, he staged an agitation in front of the liquor shop.
 
 “The protest is absolutely valid. Concerned officials should look into the matter and immediately shift the shop. The state government should put a complete ban on the sale of liquor,” Gupta told TOI.
 
 Because of the protest, excise officials reached the spot and assured protestors that shop would be shifted out by April 10.
 
 Similar assurances were given to protestors in Nayata Mundala and Kshipra. Excise officials recently shifted liquor shops out of Gawali Palasia, Banganga and Jinsi area.
 
 
