KOLKATA: The   seems to be the Vedic Village   throwback, when an angry mob had set the resort on fire eight years back in 2009. Beneath the immediate reason -a clash over an innocuous football match in which a youth was killed -lay a mega plan of the   government to purchase 1600 acres of land for an IT township in the area through private promoter -Vedic Realty -of which 90 acres were to be handed over to IT majors Wipro and Infosys for setting up their projects. Unlike Singur and Nandigram, this was a private venture. But the effect was no different. Bhattacharjee had to scrap the project days after the violence.

 The Bhangar land purchase, though on a much lower scale -only 16 acres and that too for the Power Grid Corporation (POWERGRID) project -has once again put a question mark on how sound is the policy of purchasing multi-crop land even though the   government has a land-neutral policy .
 
 The fact of the matter at ground zero remains the same. Like Gaffar Mollah and Ruidas Mandal in the   case, Trinamool leader Arabul Islam and his team have a role in the Bhangar violence. Trinamool minister and local MLA Abdur Rezzak Molla stoked the fire by making a provocative comment over fertility of the villagers in a public meeting in the area few days back. While Arabul-loyalists maintain that the minister did it deliberately to muddy the waters, Molla suppor ters argue that the damage was done much before the MLA joined Trinamool in 2016.
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is sensitive over the land question initially, tweeted on Tuesday that the project will be shifted elsewhere if locals do not want it there, and later retracted possibly having a second thought on whether the state government has the authority to make such an announcement on its own. The dilemma has given ammunition to the Opposition. CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra wanted the CM to make the scarp announcement at Bhangar like her predecessor had done at Nandigram. However, Mishra's demand has little impact in Bhangar because locals suffered similarly in Rajarhat, Ma hisgoth, Mahisbathan areas during the CPM rule.CPM leaders are thus giving support to the movement from behind lest the movement gets spoiled in the political wrangle.
 
 But why did the villagers chose to fight now when the POWERGRID project is towards completion? Bhangar seems to be the flashpoint of all earlier land aggregations in the vicinity , and not just a rebuff to the POWERGRID project. It calls into question what the authorities told the village folk for all these years and what has happened on the ground. It also throws light on how the land was “purchased“ with the help of ruling partymen. For instance, the POWERGRID notification on October 22, 2016, states that project will benefit mostly the Bhangar, Rajarhat area and large tracts of North and South 24-Parganas. Villagers want to know how. They want to know how the powerhouse wastes will be discharged. Finally , it has brought to the fore if the new development model unlike the forcible acquisition in Singur leaves any scope for refusing land for the project.Add to this the lack of clarity over compensation rates. All these reflect a disconnect or mistrust among villagers making them prone to rumour on other environmental concerns. A POWERGRID press release says that the project is imporatant for power supply in Kolkata and Rajarhat apart from other areas. “This substation is created with a State-of-the-Art Gas Insulated Switchgear (GIS) Technology , which requires about 14th of the land as compared to conventional substation. GIS technology is safe, reliable and requires less maintenance,“ the press release claims .
 
 What's more is the perception among villagers that authorities tweaked the original alignment of the 400 KV transmission lines to accommodate the upcoming real estate projects coming up near Vedic Village at Uttar Gazipur, Chandipur flanked by VIP Road, Jessore Road at the Rajarhat end, and instead being run over the multi-crop agricultural lands under heavy police presence.Bhangar, like Nandigram, has a substantial Muslim population among whom Trinamool has a solid support base. A section among Trinamool has active participation in the land stir like CPM supporters had during the Nandigram movement.Mamata isn't thus taking it lightly .
 
