MUMBAI: A  , while awarding a total   of a around Rs 4.12 lakh to a man who lost three   after being knocked down by a tempo in 2012, accepted that he will have to face social stigma. The tribunal while breaking down the components under which compensation was awarded has allowed Rs 50,000 to be paid for “loss of amenities” in life due to this stigma and restriction of movements. 

 The other heads under which the compensation was granted included, medical expenses, special diet and conveyance, pain and suffering, disability and loss of income. The total amount of Rs 2.87 lakh was to be paid along with an interest of 9% per annum from the date of filing the application. This brought the compensation amount to around Rs 4.12 lakh. 
 
 The 40-year-old victim had submitted the application seeking compensation on March 7, 2012. He said that on February 10, 2012 around 4.30 pm he was riding his motorcycle on the   road when a tempo came from the opposite direction and dashed against him. He said that he sustained severe injuries and was admitted to Shatabdi Hospital. He was then shifted to Sion hospital where he was admitted until February 22, 2012 . The victim said that after being operated, three of his toes on the right foot had to be amputated. 
 
 While the owner of the tempo, SM Packaging, remained absent before the tribunal, the insurance company,   said that it was not liable to indemnify the owner as the driver of the offending vehicle did not hold a valid driving licence on the date of accident. It said that this amounted to a breach of the terms and conditions of the policy. 
 
 The tribunal however said that the insurance company did not examine any witness from either the RTO department or otherwise to prove the defence.
 
  Further it observed that the spot panchanama also showed that there was sufficient space for the driver of the tempo to take necessary precaution on spotting the victim. “But it appears that he failed to take proper care and precaution and to control his vehicle and as a result the applicant was injured,” the tribunal held.
 
 
