VADODARA: Got a challan for breaking traffic rules? Just log in on a website www.vadodaraechallan.co.in or tap on a mobile application ‘Vadodara SETU’ to pay the penalty amount. 

 The city police have started collecting traffic fines   since last six days. And the response has been encouraging as many citizens have gone online and accessed the website or app to pay the fines. 
 
 “Now, the traffic rule offenders won’t have to stand in queues or visit the police station to pay the fine. They can log in on the website or app. We are encouraging citizens to pay the fines online. Nearly 40 hoardings have been put up in the city to spread awareness about this new system and we will also publicize the website and app on social media,” said Manoj  , city police commissioner. 
 
 “We will also be uploading details of the commuters who have been issued e-challan. People can visit our website and enter their vehicle license plate number to find out if they have been issued challan. They can then pay the fine online,” Sashidhar told TOI. Those who can’t pay online can visit the nearest branch of   (SBI) and deposit the fine there. 
 
 Currently the traffic offenders are caught on the CCTVs installed at the crossroads that delivers images of the person violating traffic rules along with his or her vehicle number plate to the central system in Police Bhavan that produces e-challans. Also on cards is, sending SMS to traffic offenders stating the offence they committed and the amount they will have to pay. It will also have a link that the person can click on to pay the money. The cops will get mobile numbers of the traffic offender through our VAHAN app. 
 
 If the violator doesn’t respond to first SMS, two reminder messages will be sent to him. If there is no response then the challan will be sent through the speed post and if the violator doesn’t pay up then a cop will come calling. The violator will have to pay extra charges over the penalty amount if the policemen is sent the person’s residence. 
 
 
