HYDERABAD: As concern sweeps society over schoolchildren turning drug addicts, a retired judge and a former bureaucrat gave TOI a prescription to deal with young minds in   They are disturbed that thousands of youngsters, especially school and college students, are in the clutches of the drug mafia.

 Justice P   , a former judge of the  , on Monday asked the authorities to make use of services of probation officers with the state's welfare wings and correctional services to deal with the young addicts.
 
 Emphasising on the need to recruit more probation officers, he said, “Judges of the trial courts, particularly those dealing with juveniles, depend a lot on the report of probation officers before arriving at any conclusions. The probation officers keep a watch on juveniles in conflict with law. They interact with them, advice, mend and finally report to the court about the need to either convict or release them.“
 
 “Those with requisite qualifications in Master of Social Work or similar subjects with special emphasis on the ability to mingle with kids and correct them should be taken in as probation officers,“ the former judge said.
 
 He also decried the approach of modern-day parents, particularly the affluent ones, in raising their children.“They do not have time to keep a watch on their kids or know what their children are doing with their pocket money . Where is the need to open separate bank accounts for the kids?
 Why do they need net banking or cash transfers into their accounts?“ he asked.
 
 “Do not allow them to go in to their rooms and lock themselves up. Students attending rave parties is another disturbing trend. Parents must exercise greater control over their wards,“ he said.
 
 Talking to TOI, retired IAS officer M  , who served in several senior positions both at the Centre and state, said increased awareness on the drug menace would successfully reduce demand and would eventually lead to breaking up of the supply chain of the narcotic substances. “In fact, several Latin American countries have become victims of the drug me nace with a   thriving on the weakness of the addicts. And, it is now a multi-billion dollar illegal business and authorities must take note of it,“ he said.
 
 Gopala Krishna also stressed on the need for parents to keep tabs on their children and friends with whom they move around.
 
 “Talking to their friends and teachers regularly to know about their behaviour is important. These days parents seldom talk to their kids. Sit with them, eat with them and talk to them. The best time to do it is dinner time. If you notice anything abnormal, counsel them slowly . If needed, take them to de-addiction centres.“
 
 He also advised the state government to open more stateof-the-art de-addiction centres to deal with young addicts.
 
