KOCHI: Do you have any idea of the   you or your family uses in a day? If not, get a   done, say experts. In this hour of crisis when water is fast becoming a precious commodity, institutions, organisations, apartments complexes and individual houses should carry out a water audit which will not just quantify   but also give you an idea of how much water can be used, reused, conserved and is being wasted.

 “Unfortunately, we don't have a   which take into account such elements while  . In the state, almost 70 per cent of the water is used by the irrigation sector. The second biggest consumption is by industries and commercial sector. Consumption of potable water is the lowest. Hence it never gets into the policy because when compared to the irrigation sector wastage, wastage of potable water is miniscule,“ said Sushanth C M, principal scientist, Centre for Water Resources Development and Management, Calicut.
 
 Despite the absence of policy, several apartments, hospitals, hotels and organisations, faced by acute crisis of drinking water, have begun doing water audit to cut down their bills and streamline their consumption. “Water audit can be best defined as a qualitative and quantitative analysis of water consumption to identify means of reducing, reusing and recycling of water. We start with source water quality investigation, make a water circuit flow diagram, assess the various units in the distribution system and make an estimate of water losses,  , misuse and over use.Then we give recommendations for every step including do a costbenefit analysis,“ said Sunny George, director, SCMS water institute.
 
 He said that in case of an apartment complex, the pressure of water flow in a 10-storey building will vary with each floor. “The water pressure in the first floor will be much higher than the top-most floor and hence the consumption level will vary.While assessing water usage, we will have to take into consideration the age of the building also.In case of old buildings, leakages will be more,“ he added.
 
 “It is high time that we started talking of a realistic pricing for water. Now, Kerala Water Authority is hardly pricing their water.We are paying more for tankers,“ Sushanth said.
 
