New Delhi: French carmaker   is looking to drive in a compact   and a premium small car in India, placed above  . It plans to boost volumes led by highly-localised models.

 Renault ended 2016 with a market share of around 4.5% on sale of 1.1 lakh cars and operates with three key products —   SUV, Kwid mini and Lodgy  .
 
 Sumit Sawhney, country CEO and MD of  , said the company is in a “portfolio development mode” at a time when it expands retail presence across the country. High local content will be a major focus area for all new products as Renault wants to ensure that car prices are attractive and operating costs are competitive, Sawhney told TOI. He said the company “may look at a crossover” (SUV), which can hit the market during the second half of this year. It is believed that this vehicle will be the   that has been displayed internationally. The new vehicle can be placed along with Duster, as Renault wants to have a greater say in the fast-growing off-roader category.
 
 Sawhney, however, did not confirm plans for a new small car, but said the company is looking at segments above Kwid as it looks to boost overall share. It is understood that the new small car is in the development stage at the moment and may be ready in two to three years.
 
 The Renault India chief said new products will be an integral part of the company’s strategy. “We will surely have one car launch every year. This will happen as our distribution and sales footprint get stronger.”
 
 After being able to get brand recognition in India following launch of Duster in 2012, Renault finally managed to break into the volumes market with ‘SUV-shaped’ mini car Kwid (introduced in October 2015). The new vehicle managed to sell nearly 1 lakh units in its first year of launch, and averages over 8,000 units on a monthly basis.
 
 Kwid (price starts from Rs 2.64 lakh, ex-showroom Delhi) managed to bring in volumes for the company in one of the most fiercely-contested categories as it battled heavyweights such as Maruti’s Alto and Hyundai’s Eon.
 
 Sawhney said a localisation of 98%, high ground clearance, strong mileage and right pricing helped the company penetrate the segment. “Localisation was the key behind the success of the car.” 
 
 The company has also been expanding its retail footprint across the country and finished last year with 270 dealers, up from 205 numbers at the beginning of the year. “We have similar expansion plans for this year too, and a lot of focus will be to get deeper inside the market.”
 
 
