They have a simple musical motto — “Blues is my business and the business is good”. Probably the first Indian blues band to write their own music,   is a household name among fans of the genre who have long craved India’s answer to the blues. 
After 14 years in the indie music circuit, the Shillong-based Soulmate today is hailed as the best Indian name in the world of blues.
 “If you ask me, Soulmate can rock even a baby shower,” said 48-year-old cinematographer  , who has been keenly following the band since their inception in 2003. And that’s exactly what they did at a popular brewpub in the city on Saturday. Belting blues’ varied styles — from boogie, travelling blues, 12-bar blues, swing to laid-back mid-tempo guitar-driven instrumentals, their set had everything to satisfy even the most critical of a blues fan. It was a thin crowd for a Saturday, but it didn’t matter to  ,   and Co. From the first four-count, they were right on the money. Aptly accompanied by Rudy’s sons, Leon and Vincent, on bass and drum respectively, if you were to close your eyes and listen to their set, it was impossible to gauge their desi-ness as their sound is as professional as any blues band from the genre’s home in the US. 
 “The only thing I knew about the band is that they have opened for Carlos Santana. That was enough to pull me to this gig. And so far they have been exceptional,” said Anand Raj, a 24-year-old IT professional, who was at his first Soulmate gig. 
 
 
 
 “The last few days have been very hectic for us. We’re on an eight-city tour of the country and just arrived in Hyderabad this morning from Bengaluru. Early morning flights are the worst, but we can’t help it as we have back-to-back shows,” said Rudy as he stirred his drink just minutes before going on stage.
 Soulmate has performed in Hyderabad a couple of times earlier and they have some fond memories of the city. “I remember we were here some time last year. Though blues here is at a nascent stage, Hyderabad has been receptive to the genre and our sets,” said Keith Wallang, Rudy’s brother and manager of the band. “It’s good. Because we love it and that’s what we do for a living,” added Rudy.
 Touring has always been Soulmate’s strong point. Their brand of music has found them fans in even the most unexpected of places around the country and their gig calendar is pretty packed. 
 All through the conversation, Tipriti or Tips as she is commonly known as, sat with her head buried into her phone. The fiery vocalist, who otherwise is a bundle of energy on stage, seems little off to us. “How are you, Tips?” we asked. She looked up and gave a weak smile. “I am seriously sleep-deprived, dude. But it’s going to be all fine after today’s set as our next gig is in Goa on the 26th and we have four days before that. It’s all part of the game, you see,” she said with a smile. 
 
 
 
 But once on stage, all the tiredness seemed to vanish and the feisty, gritty Tips, that her fans know her as, was at her best — dictating terms on the microphone and accompanying her bandmates, especially, the cool-head guitar exponent Rudy. And it was eclectic. The time they broke into Set Me Free from their second album Moving On, the already tipsy gathering was on its feet and jiving. Next came Blues Is My Business from their debut album  . A crowd favourite, the funky guitar riffs and Tips’ powerful voice in this one never fail to garner appreciation and it was no different on Saturday.
 “There are a few new songs in the pipeline, but currently we aren’t thinking of another album. The focus now is on touring,” said Vincent, adding that blues drumming happen by chance to him. “Initially, I wasn’t a blues drummer. But, one day, dad (Rudy) asked me to jam with him on the blues and here I am today,” he revealed.
 “We might have to come back again to Hyderabad in a couple of months, as talks are on about another gig here. It would be wonderful to gorge on delicious Hyderabad food once again,” said Leon, packing his bass guitar. 
 As the crowd shuffled towards the exit gate and the pub wore a deserted look, we asked Leon what he would be taking back from the gig in the city. “I think Soulmate has added a few more names to its fan list today,” he said, signing off.
 
