Rhiti Sports, famously known to be owned by the manager of  , made a bid for the events management rights of the Indian Premier League ( ) but was apparently outbid by current holder IMG. Mirror understands that the bids were opened in New Delhi on Thursday and one of the bidders was Arun Pandey, the long-standing friend-cum manager of Dhoni. Pandey's Rhiti was one of the four bidders, the other three being Wizcraft, Group of 4 and, of course, IMG.

 Rhiti's bid was a surprise for many even in the   (BCCI) circles but the track record shows the firm has been associated with a few teams in different leagues, including Chennai Super Kings, in marketing their properties. It is generally thought that Dhoni is a part-owner of the firm but the   officials said the former India captain's name was not there in the ownership structure that   submitted to the BCCI. That Rhiti manages Dhoni's commercial interests is an undisputed fact.
 
 Among those present when the bids were opened on Wednesday were IPL chairman  , acting BCCI secretary  , treasurer Anirudh Chaudhry and CEO  . Interestingly enough, the BCCI is yet to announce the name of the successful bidder. The rights have been allotted for five years and IMG, which has been associated with the IPL since its inception, is understood to have bagged it.
 
 A BCCI source, who was present in Delhi yesterday, said the decision to award the rights to IMG has been taken in principle but the commercials have not yet been finalised. IMG is currently paid close to Rs 27 crores a year. Calls and text messages to IPL chairman Shukla and Rhiti chairman Pandey remained unanswered. "May be the announcement will be made after the commercial deal is finalised," the source said.
 
 The event management rights necessitate the holders to prepare laws of the league and organise it with the help of the state associations. Having been conceptualised and executed the tournament for the last 10 years, IMG was always thought to be the favourite.
 
 
