MUMBAI: A   left home after a squabble with her mother in 2013 and ended up in a remote village outside Satara after being kidnapped by a woman who sweet-talked her and forced her to wed her twice married 27-year-old nephew. The child, who was tortured and forced to beg, made her way back to her mother in 2015 after a neighbour gave her some money.

 On Saturday, a special court [under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act] sentenced the man to ten years in jail, while his aunt (48) and mother (50) were sentenced to seven years' imprisonment under various charges, including rape and abetment, abetting child marriage, and kidnapping.
 
 The court refuted the defence that the victim had given her consent to the marriage.Relying on the minor's testimony , the court said she was born and brought up in Mumbai and thus it was impossible for her to give consent for marriage with the accused, a beggar. “The place (village) was unknown to her. She didn't understand the language of the accused. She was alone and scared. Therefore she might have kept mum and not resisted the marriage.“
 
 Refusing to grant leniency to the trio, the court said, “In a city like Mumbai, such incidents are increasing day by day .Gangs of beggars kidnap minor girls and involve them in illegal activities. It is necessary to deter people who are committing such offences.“
 
 The girl told the court that her father had died and she lived with her mother, grandmother and brother. She said that on October 20, 2013, she left home and went to Dadar station, where she met the man's aunt. They started talking and the girl told the woman about the argument she had with her mother. The woman told her to accompany her, saying she would bring her back to the city once her mother had calmed down.
 
 The girl said the woman took her to Pune by train, and from there to the village outside Satara by bus. The girl tried to call her mother, to no avail. A fortnight later, she was introduced to the man's mother at a village fair. The girl said they spoke a language she did not understand. She said that without her consent, the two women smeared turmeric on her, gave her a saree and made her exchange garlands with the man. Photographs were taken. The girl said that for the next two years, they lived in a hut far from the village, with only four or five huts around.She found that the man had been married twice before, and on both occasions his wives left as they were unable to bear the torture of their existence.
 
 The girl said she tried to return home, but she did not have the means and no transport was available. She said the accused was in a physical relationship with her and repeatedly abused her. She said she was forced to beg for food for the family .
 
 On February , 6, 2015, after a woman in the neighbourhood gave her money , the girl was able to return home. The girl's mother told the court she arrived home on February 8, 2015, at 5am, and looked very thin, unkempt and unhealthy . She said her child had anger issues and had run away once before and stayed at a friend's house for a day .
 
 After the girl narrated her ordeal, her mother lodged an FIR with the Kalachowki police. Within five days, the police traced the three accused and arrested them. They have been in jail since then.
 
