 aka Babita from the cult show   has been actively involved in social causes alongside her hit show. We recently learnt that the actress has been sponsoring education for her hair dresser's daughter and also her househelp.
 
  In a discussion with one of her co-actors, Munmun found out about the exorbitant fees schools charge these days right from the nursery, the actress who has a reputation of calling a spade a spade had a serious question and put up a hard hitting message on her social media.
  
  She wrote, "Education is everyone's right. Be it a boy or a girl. In my case, it was the plight of a widow and her 6-year-old girl who needed this help. I'm also very appalled at the fact that schools here charge lakhs per year as fees or donations to impart education to kids! Seriously?
  
  It has supposedly become mandatory for everyone to pay huge donations to get their kids admitted. Their yearly fees gives me the fright. When & how did education become a business I wonder. We studied in schools as well without all the 'fancy trimmings' that these schools offer & we turned out fine as individuals. My middle class parents would have got a heart attack if these donations & fees existed then.
  
  I sincerely hope that some kind of restrictions are put on such private schools & tuition charging exorbitantly for education. Pathetic!
  
  And then comes all these tuition classes with their big advertisements & hoardings making parents believe that they can do wonders!
  
  Seriously there needs to be a check on all these schools & colleges charging exorbitantly in return for education which is everyone's right.
  
  Government schools are no good. So I wonder where would a middle class parent go in the next few years if such higher fees & demands continue."
  
  Everyday newspapers are filled with news of students dropping out or not allowed in the premises for not keeping up with the fee hikes.But the question remains, are the private schools willing to see anything beyond than the profits of their so-called educational institutions?
