BAREILLY: Taking a dig at the   for highlighting the troubles faced by   due to  , an   (AIMPLB) member on Sunday claimed that the government was talking about the practice because of political vested interests.
 
  AIMPLB secretary Zafar Yab Jilani said a majority of divorce and family dispute cases are reported from other communities, whereas only 20% of such cases from the Muslim community are filed in courts. “Only 20% of divorce cases are filed by Muslims. The remaining 80% are registered by other communities. If the government is really concerned about women, it should think about the women begging in Varanasi and Mathura,” he said.
  
  Speaking on the sidelines of an awareness campaign organized by Jamat-e-Islami Hind on Muslim Personal Law, Jilani took potshots at BJP and said that the saffron party is making a political issue out of triple talaq when it is merely a provision in Islam which is rarely misused.
  
  
  Other speakers at the event also expressed their anguish over the government highlighting the controversial practice, claiming that it was an attempt by BJP to divert attention from issues like unemployment, education and poverty. “The issue of a Uniform Civil Code is repeatedly raised to misguide and instigate the Muslim community. Till date, the government has not been able to even prepare a draft resolution on the uniform code which it plans to implement in the near future,” Jamaat-e-Hind general secretary Mohammed Saleem said.
  
 On Saturday, Prime Minister   sharpened the raging debate over triple talaq exhorting “enlightened “members of the Muslim community to take the lead for abolition of the controversial practice and help women who have been at its receiving end. “They should live up to the great tradition of the country where the initiative for eradication of outdated practices as well as for evolution of modern ones has come from enlightened members of different communities. I will urge you not to let this become an issue of partisan politics,“ he said. 
