AHMEDABAD: Following a court order,   have registered a   against a hospital and its doctors, after the husband of a swine flu patient complained that in order to overcharge him, the doctors continued ‘treatment’ after death of the woman advocate. The complainant,  , resident of Sudarshan Complex, Vastrapur had bee billed Rs31 lakh for his wife’s treatment. Kotak complained his wife was declared dead on April 1, while a doctor had informed him during operation on March 6 that his wife had no heart beat.

 The complaint under IPC Section 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) registered in compliance with the court order given on September 25 mentions names of Dr Bhagyesh Shah, Dr Nitesh Shah, Dr Daval Nayak, Dr Sanjay Shah and Dr Anish Chandarana, all associated with CIMS Hospital.
 
 CL Solanki, inspector of Sola police station, said that they would seek medical opinion in the case to ascertain the cause and time of death.
 
 Kotak’s complain mentions that his wife Vandana was an advocate and had become notary soon before her hospitalization. The couple has two children. 
 
 After a brief treatment at a local hospital, Vandana was admitted to CIMS Hospital on February 20. She was diagnosed with swine flu and after a few days in isolation ward, she was shifted to ICU. 
 
 According to Kotak, Dr Bhagyesh Shah suggested treatment by ECMO, costing Rs 4 lakh, on March 4. Two days later, on March 6, Dr Shah said there was urgent need for an operation to save Vandana’s life. On the same day, Dr Dhaval Nayak, one of the doctors at the operation theatre, had allegedly told Kotak that there was no heart beat recorded in the patient, pointing at probable death on the same day.
 
 “According to the complaint, there was no communication with Vandana afterwards. The treatment continued with different tests and diagnosis. A lung specialist visited her and said that nothing further could be done. The family then approached the management, talking about their plight and money they have paid so far. On April 1, Vandana was declared dead,” said an official. 
 
 CIMS Hospital claimed that the relatives of the patient had been counselled on a daily basis during the course of hospitalization and they were fully aware of the patient’s condition. “The hospital had provided high standard quality of care,” it said in a a statement.
 
 
