CHENNAI: The nation's sole state-run facility to breed native dog varieties -the dog breeding unit (DBU) -here has survived an imminent closure, as the   stayed a December 14, 2016 order of the Madras high court directing it to shut shop in two months.

 The first bench of   stayed the HC order on February 13, on a special leave petition filed by the state government's animal husbandry , dairying and fisheries department.
 
 The dog breeding unit was started in the 1980s to breed and sell native dogs. Till 1990 the unit was breeding Kanni, Kombai, Sippiparai and Rajapalayam dog breeds. As the unit was unable to get pure breed, breeding of both Kanni and Kombai was discontinued. In its 33 years of existence, the unit had sold 5,000 puppies. On an average 150 puppies are sold by the unit annually . Now the unit has only Kanni, Kombai, Sippiparai and Rajapalayam breeds.
 
 However, People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PeTA) moved the high court seeking closure of the facility, on the ground that dogs were in bad shape and they needed to be rescued. It also said such an arrangement would adversely affect community dogs, as potential pet-owners would not adopt abandonedstray dogs as pets. The bench had deputed the   (AWBI) to inspect the facility and file a report. On December 14, acting on a dam ning report of the AWBI, the court said: “In view of the order dated August 4, 2014, the DBU of Tamil Nadu state government is required to be closed down within two months from today .The dogs in the unit would be rehabilitated with the assistance of the AWBI.“
 
 Extracting this part of the HC's order, the SC said the portion would remain stayed.
 
 In its report, the AWBI said there was high prevalence of health problems and that the unit had high mortality rates due to inbreeding, depression, prevalence of pressure sores and ectoparasites, continuous confinement, lack of opportunity for socialisation and inadequate exercise, contravening the provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. It said the unit had failed to adhere to the terms and conditions set by AWBI while registering dogs at DBU, under Animal Birth Control (Dogs) Rules, 2001.
 
