GUWAHATI:   Akon Bora was questioned by the   of   on Friday in connection with an ongoing investigation into an alleged Rs 2,250-crore social welfare department scam. 

 The probe was initiated by chief minister   last year after a departmental inquiry found that Rs 150 crore of public funds have been "siphoned off" over 15 years. Allegedly, the money was falsely diverted as "costs towards supply of nutritious food for some nine lakh ghost children beneficiaries and 390 fake Anganwadi centres".
 
 While former chief minister Tarun Gogoi said Bora's interrogation was "politically motivated", Sonowal said this is only a commitment to "clean up the system of corruption".
 
 Bora, after deposing before the investigators, denied any financial anomalies in the department during his tenure and dismissed all allegations. "They (anti-corruption members) wanted to know about the various works done during my tenure as the social welfare minister. I told them everything in my knowledge," he said.
 
 "There was no anomaly. The department worked as per the Centre's instructions. The anganwadi centres have been sanctioned by the Centre as per recommendations by district committees headed by deputy commissioners. The state government just forwards the list to the Centre," Bora said.
 
 He added that he has taken action against non-performing officials most often. Responding to the allegations of 'ghost beneficiaries', he said he had looked into these allegations personally. "The numbers were in contradiction with the real attendance at the anganwadi centres. So, I had ordered a list of the attendees at these centres so that the department could avail supplies against the actual number of kids," he said.
 
 When asked about the charges of money swindling in the name of purchasing items for the children, Bora said all such purchases were made under strict monitoring by the finance department. 
 
 Announcing that he would cooperate with the ongoing investigation, Bora said, "I have served honestly. If something happened without my knowledge, I would like to demand strict action against those responsible."
 
 In view of the number of files and documents to be analysed, state police have roped in more manpower for the investigating team. 
 
 "The first part of the investigation involves analyzing the files, which will be followed by cross-checking the details with actual beneficiaries on the ground," said Assam Police chief Mukesh Sahay. An ADGP-rank official has been supervising the investigation.
 
 
