NEW DELHI: The official Twitter handles of ABVP, its Delhi state committee and of several ABVP office-bearers were suspended on Thursday night. They were reinstated on Friday afternoon.

 ABVP national media convenor   said that when he tried to log in to his Twitter account on Friday morning, a message was displayed that the handle had been suspended. "We were given no prior notification or information about the suspension. Nor was any explanation provided. My followers and those I follow were also listed at 17, when I actually had over 7,500. We have no idea why this measure was taken," he said.
 
 Along with Bahuguna, the official handles of the student faction of RSS (@ABVPVoice), the Delhi state committee (@ABVPDelhi), national secretary Rahul Sharma and some other ABVP office-bearers were also suspended.The ABVP DUSU campaign Twitter handle, which had last been active on March 18, was also suspended and then reinstated.
 
 Saurabh Sharma, former joint secretary of ABVP in JNU, said he noticed that his handle had been suspended on Thursday night and wrote a mail immediately asking for information. No response was given, but the handle was reinstated by Friday morning. None of his tweets have been lost, he said. "Both my Facebook and Twitter accounts are linked. After the handle got reinstated, I checked if something is missing, thankfully nothing was deleted. But it was only around 10.30am that I was able to access my account, and my followers' list was updated around noon," said Sharma.
 
 BJP spokesperson Tajinder Pal Bagga has written to Twitter India asking for an explanation and an apology for the suspension of official handles. As the news spread of the suspension, more persons came forward complaining about their accounts also being suspended.
 
 However, according to Bahuguna, the party cannot take responsibility for them. "When somebody posts something offensive, they ideally get a notification explaining the rationale behind the suspension or about the duration. But we were given no reason or information. There are some persons who do have their accounts suspended for the posts made. We cannot vouch for those non-office bearers who had their handles suspended, but suspending official handles created an outrage because of which they were reinstated," said Bahuguna.
 
 When contacted, Twitter did not wish to comment on the suspensions.
 
