BHOPAL: Realising there is big money in  , thieves have taken a liking to lifting of   like never before. Numbers back it up. 

 In 2016, the number of stolen two-wheelers stood at 2,605, working out to seven every day, highest in last eight years.
 
 Over the years, there has been a gradual rise in cases. In 2009, the number was 1,500, which went up to 2,605 in 2016. South Bhopal has emerged as preferred area for vehicle lifters as more than 1,596 of 2,605 cases were reported from here alone.
 
  Compared to that 1,009 vehicle theft cases were registered in North area of the state capital.
 
 SP (North)   said: “Last year, 382 of 1,009 stolen   were recovered . Koh-e-Fiza area has highest vehicle theft cases followed by Hanumanganj and Talaiya.”
 
 “The common thing I noticed was most of thieves had a past crime record. Most are from Sehore, Vidisha and Rajgarh districts, who come to Bhopal to steal vehicles,” he said, adding “After stealing a vehicle, such people give stolen 2-wheeler on rent to villagers for Rs 1,000 per month. They give vehicle to 5 or 6 people and, after 5 months, sell it as scrap for almost Rs 10,000.”
 
 “This way, they earn around Rs 15,000 in around six months,” Saxena said.
 
 “Bikes like Splendor, Platina and Passion are favourites for vehicle lifters. Of late, Scooty and non-gear scooter like Activa are becoming popular with those into lifting of vehicles. Going by trend in last one year, it appears Scooty is fast edging up in popularity,” Saxena told TOI.
 
 “Pinched vehicles are usually sent to Chachoda in Guna district and Agra in UP. Also, Mandsaur and Vidisha in the state and places in Rajasthan are the areas where these vehicles are taken. Villagers in Ganj Basoda, Shyampur, Rajgarh, and UP’s border areas have good market for running stolen vehicle on rent,” he said. DSP (crime) Dhyan Singh Chauhan said: “Vehicles are taken either by breaking a lock or using master key. The major places in Bhopal, where vehicle lifters are active, include Bus Stand area, non-parking area of Bhopal station, commercial places like MP Nagar, TT Nagar and Habibganj area.”“Those into the “trade” include Kanjar tribe and Sanchi tribe in Dewas area. Stolen vehicles also find way in Jhalawar district of Rajasthan and vehicle thefts are committed by Veer tribe,” he said. 
 
 “Sehore- Dewas- Rajgarh- Guna is the route from where Bhopal police nabbed thieves most of the time.” 
 
 Sidhartha Bahuguna, SP (South) told TOI “Lifters first do a recce of a crowded area and then steal a vehicle using a master key. Once through with it, they move the vehicle in some other parking area until they find someone to sell vehicle.”
 
