By 
 

 Close to 100   of the Post-Graduate department of Government First Grade Colleges are missing. PG classes are cancelled and students have been asked not to come to college.
 
 These teachers are away on   assigned by the   – work that takes precedence even over the  .
 
 Bangalore Mirror has found that these teachers have been sent away to do a “thorough verification” on the next batch of teachers to be recruited.
 
 The Karnataka Education Authority recruits teachers for higher education after they take a qualifying exam. KEA selects meritorious candidates on the basis of their score in the exam. The candidates apply online with all the supporting educational and personal verification documents and the KEA verifies the documents on a prescribed date announced on their website. On the prescribed dates, the candidates are asked to produce the original documents and the KEA approves it and sends a letter to the Department of Higher Education for further proceedings.
 
 This process though has come under a cloud in the past as KEA has announced the names of candidates, whose degrees were found to be fake. Close to 40 candidates’ degree certificates were found to be fake after the 2014-2015 exams.
 
 To avoid such slip-ups, the Department of Collegiate Education has another round of verification process as the department says the KEA has done only preliminary verification and thorough verification is done by them.
 
 The process for this verification is complicated. Twenty-five teams are formed to re-verify the documents. These teams are deputed to different parts of the country – any state from where the candidates have received their degrees.
 
 Dr Ajay Nagabhushan MN (IAS), Commissioner, Department of Collegiate Education told Bangalore Mirror, “The KEA conducts the preliminary verification. It only checks the documents submitted online with its hard copy. We have heard of many cases of degrees turning out to be fake. So, we have set up a committee to look into the verification process.”
 
 When asked what the verification process is, he said, “It’s a confidential process.We do not want to tell anyone how it is done. After the process is over, we will explain the method.”
 
 Turns out the confidential verification process is that members of the committee set up for verifying the documents, go and visit the Universities all over the country and then certify it.
 
 And guess who the committee members are… The PhD holders and senior teachers handling PG classes in the colleges. So, now we know what teachers do when they bunk classes.
 
 They are given flight charges, are sent in AC coaches by train and also by cars to the nearest colleges such as Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. 
 
 A principal from a government college said, “We have cancelled our PG classes and asked students not to come, because their teachers are not here. They have gone for the department’s work. However, some classes are taken by the teachers in-charge or we see which teacher is free and ask him/her to go handle the classes.”
 
 Karnataka Government Colleges Teachers Association president Prakash H does not find this to be an effective mechanism. “It is true that in the 2009 batch, we found many with fake degree certificates. While it is admirable the department is taking steps to verify thoroughly before confirming the teachers’ appointment, taking the senior teachers to do this work doesn’t make any sense. They have duties in the college and they also have classes allotted to them. We are in a profession which stands on trust and work. The department’s efforts are misplaced.”
 
 He also said the department is spending too much money on such things, when it needs to fill up the vacancies. “Earlier, the process was as easy as writing a letter to the Universities and the Universities would reply. But, now we have an unnecessary process which wastes human resource and the state’s cost.
 
 
