CHANDIGARH: Ahead of scheduled introduction of Goods and   (GST),   president   pointed out that now states like Punjab will have to focus more on   and not production for the income of the state to go up. He also called for a change in approach by both industry and the state so that the promised reforms do not remain on paper.

 “Earlier, it did not matter if goods produced here were consumed in some other state. For consumption, income of people has to go up. GST will escalate the economic growth of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal as inter-state purchases would witness significant decline of 5-6 per cent in prices of raw materials and finished goods,“ said Jiwarajka, who was in Chandigarh on Monday.
 
 “It is probably the biggest economic reform postIndependence and there are bound to be teething troubles, a bit more than the demonetisation process. The biggest issue is that when it is implemented, change should not remain on paper. It has to come with one-product, one-nation, and one tax doctrine. It should be goods and safe tax,“ he said.
 
 Jiwarajka also cautioned about a large amount of GST data flowing into the virtual world once it becomes operational. “That is why proper interactions (of the states) with the industry will help. The implementation of GST would remove cascading impact of taxes and levies on their inter-state purchases and would enhance their respective gross state domestic product (GSDP) by 2-3 percentage points. GST will remove the barriers between these states and will make the count ry a common market,“ he added.
 
 From the industry's perspective, reforms in labour laws, land availability, power at competitive process and skill development are the key issues. “Issues like land can be tackled by increasing the floor area ratio (FAR) for the industry,“ he said.
 
 Pointing out that ease of doing business slogan often tends to remain on paper, As hok Khanna, a past president of the Chamber, said the approach that setting up industry is a crime prevailed. “In such a scenario, the industry turns into a liability. The owner cannot even shut down the unit given the norms. Besides, labour reforms continue to be a sensitive issue. I was the president in 1999 and the issues have remained more or less the same all these years,“ he added.
 
 
