After the   policy was announced, the NAVs of debt funds went into a tailspin.

 The average medium and long-term gilt fund fell 2.5% in two days, wiping out the gains of almost the past 2-3 months. Other categories such as dynamic bond funds, income funds and short-term debt funds also fell, though the decline was not as steep (see graphic). The RBI decision to leave rates unchanged had come as a surprise. But the bigger shock was the change in the RBI stance from “accommodative“ to “neutral“. “The shift in the stance was a complete shocker,“ says Upasna Bhardwaj, Senior Economist, Kotak Bank.
 
 In simple English, the “accommodative“ stance implies that the RBI may cut rates in the future. That turned to “neutral“, which means the RBI may keep rates stable and future rate cuts are possible only if inflation or growth are below expectations.
 
 Fund managers say this has significantly changes the outlook for the bond market. “After this change in the RBIstance, we are not expecting any repo cuts for long period of time, unless some sudden developments warrant such a cut,“ says Kumaresh  , Head, Fixed Income, DHFL Pramerica Mutual Fund.
 
 
 
 
 Debt funds have done exceedingly well in the past few years, with most categories delivering double digit annualised returns in the past 1-3 years. Before the RBI announced the change in the stance on 8 February , The   had risen 21% in one year. But it was also the biggest loser after the policy, falling 3.7% in a span of two days.The change in the RBI policy stance means that investors should moderate their expectations. “The big sell off on the policy day indicates that the best times in the bond markets are behind us and investors would do well to lower their return expectations from bond funds,“ says  , Head-Fixed Income, Quantum Advisors.
 
 However, debt funds will continue to score over bank fixed deposits where rates are down to 6-7%. This is because the long-term capital gains (after holding for 3 years) from debt funds is taxed at 20% after indexation while interest from fixed deposits is added to the income of the investor and taxed at the applicable rate. Small savings offer slightly higher rates but there are restrictions on investments or the income is fully taxable.Given that the government is not likely to tinker with the rates on small savings schemes, investors can continue to avail of benefit of higher coupon on these small saving instruments.
 
 
 
 
 Debts funds follow two broad strategies.They either go for duration and pack their portfolios with long term bonds.These funds do well when interest rates fall. In the three months after demonetisation, the 10-year benchmark bond yield fell almost 40 basis points. Some longterm bond funds shot up 4-5% in those three months. But this has changed and bond yields are back to pre-demonetisation levels. As explained earlier, the chances of a further rate cut are bleak.“The interest rate cut story is already over,“ says Tanwir Alam, Founder & CEO, Fincart.
 
 In fact, some experts believe that long-term interest rates will move up, at least in the short term. “Due to improvement in bank credit demand, tightening global financial conditions and hardening US yields, we expect the 10-year yield to rise to 7%,“ says Dhananjay Sinha, Economist and Strategist, Emkay Global. Therefore, it doesn't make sense to buy long-term income or gilt funds.“Long-term debt funds holding bonds with a maturity of more than 10 years will underperform other categories in the coming months,“ says R. Sivakumar, Head, Fixed income, Axis Mutual Fund.
 
 Stick to short-term funds
 
 The other approach is the accrual strategy , where funds primarily earn interest from the bonds they hold. Liquid and ultra short-term funds follow the accrual strategy in its purest form and are, therefore, very safe. But short-term interest rates have declined due to the liquidity induced by demonetisation. Most liquid and ultra-short term funds generated between 6% and 6.5% in the past one month. Even so, experts feel that these categories may generate slightly better return in the coming months.“Short-term rates may inch higher in the coming months,“ says  , Head, Fixed income, Mirae Mutual Fund.
 
 Short-term and medium-term income funds also follow the accrual strategy.But unlike liquid funds and ultra-short term debt funds, they hold bonds of a slightly longer duration of up to 5-6 years. There is also some duration risk in these funds, though not very high.After the RBI policy , the average shortterm debt fund fell 0.6% while the medium-term category saw a 0.83% decline.
 
 Experts say that on a risk-reward basis, medium duration funds make sense now because the yield is higher in this segment. Secondly , corporate bonds offer a higher margin compared to gilts. “Fiveyear corporate bonds now offer 80-100 bps above gilts, while this gap is very low in the short-term segment,“ says Ramakrishnan.
 
 There are also dynamic bond funds where the fund manager takes a call on shifting from the duration strategy to the accrual approach. While this sounds enticing, fund managers don't always get it right. Several dynamic bond funds were holding long-term bonds before the policy meeting and got badly hit because of that. For example, the Birla Sunlife Dynamic Bond Fund lost 2.98% in the two days following the RBI policy, wiping out the gains of the past three months.
 
