A male teacher enters a classroom, coughs over the word ‘sex’, points to two stick figures that have black rectangles for genitalia and explains ‘intercourse’ as what happens on the wedding night “when the boy inserts his Indian culture into the female values”. This “sex-education syllabus” — as conceived by comedy collective East India Comedy in a 2014 viral video — was a consequence of former health minister Harsh Vardhan’s alleged suggestion that “socalled”   in schools should be banned and yoga promoted.

 Though he denied the statement later, the sarkari approach towards   education has arguably contributed little to young minds. Recently, though, C K Mishra, secretary, health and family welfare, launched an app called ‘Saathiya Salah’ which breaks down everything from puberty to masturbation in Hindi.
 
 Unlike the shifty male teacher in the video — who erases the first half of the term ‘homogeneous’ from his blackboard — this app is part of the ministry’s new health resource kit which says it is normal to “feel attraction” for the same sex. In essence, this progressive app joins a growing fraternity of non-judgmental pop culture resources — web series, podcasts and multimedia projects — that seek to demystify the birds and the bees for young India. Populated with colourful sex experts — chiefly Punjabi men and women such as an ever-smiling ‘Auntyji’ who can use ‘puttar’ and ‘penis’ in the same sentence and Chaddhaji who feels size doesn’t matter unless it’s a television — this virtual world gives sex ed a more fun vibe.
 
 “If kids are old enough to ask, they are old enough to know,” says Ashish Patil of Y-Films, who produced and directed ‘Sex Chat with Pappu And Papa’ — a fiction web series in which a father must deftly handle the bold queries lobbed by his curious six-year-old even as his own conservative father frowns at his bold attempts. The idea came from an awkward pause at Patil’s fiveyear-old son’s play date. Here, all the kids were reciting a nursery rhyme that goes “Heads, shoulder, knees and toes” when his son chimed in with: “penis, vagina”, leading to embarrassed looks from fellow parents. “I thought this awkwardness was unnecessary,” says Patil, who decided to research and package the issue in an entertaining story “the way filmmaker Raju Hirani does”.
 
 “Scarily, most learn about sex through porn or peers,” found Patil. Produced in 15 languages including Malay and Indonesian, the show — which covered everything from masturbation to condoms — has got over 15 million views.
 
 As things stand, misinformation on sex is rampant. “Twenty years ago, when there was no internet, we weren’t expected to know about sex. Today, there is pressure on teens to know and many are merely pretending to,” says Paromita Vohra, the brain behind the kitschy, one-year-old multimedia project Agents of Ishq, whose tagline is ‘We give sex a good name’. “Sex was only discussed as a matter of shame or in relation to violence,” says Vohra, who wanted to describe the physical, emotional and cultural aspects of sex in a language that was not clinical but more “desi” and “pleasurable”. This is why besides characters such as the famous curler-sporting, chai-guzzling motormouth Pammi Aunty, the project also boasts fun infographics such as ‘Flirting fundas of Tamil poetry’ and podcasts in which people sourced from workshops in smalltown India share juicy real-life stories in a “filmi” way. Particularly popular among its audience of 17-to-35-year-olds is a podcast titled ‘Jeep mein beep, Dil mein dhak dhak’, which talks about an older woman falling in love with her driver, both married and another one in which a boy recalls how his first girlfriend taught him how to kiss.
 
 Love Matters India — a bilingual sexual health platform boasting the elderly sex expert Auntyji, a web series called Chaddhaji, a podcast and animated videos — has two million visitors per month and receives about 200 questions a day including the recent: “Will having sex hurt my religion?” “Some doubts are based on myths and misconceptions prevailing in our society,” says Vithika Yadav of Love Matters India.
 
 Rather than treating pop culture, media, gossip and peer education as “inferior” or “bad” sources of information, these “stepsources” should be taken seriously, argues Ketaki Chowkhani in her recent doctoral research on sex education. “They are indispensable sources of sexual learning for adolescents,” she says. Especially in a society where parents are notoriously squeamish about the S-word. Sex educator Anju Kishinchandani of Out of The Box--which conducts workshops for kids of 5 to 18 years as well as parents--has run into enough parental mental blocks to endorse the mushrooming of such sexual health platforms. “Sometimes, not knowing can be more traumatic than knowing,” says Kishinchandani, recalling a 10-year-old boy who was disturbed by the prospect that he will grow hair on his genitals. “He thought they will grow as long as the hair on his head and that he will have to stop wearing shorts and need to go to the barber.”
 
 
