PUNE: The police on Wednesday told a court at   that a forensic laboratory report on slain software engineer Antara Das’s cellphone is expected to provide significant clues that would require further interrogation of suspect   in custody. 

 Moving a plea for extension of Santosh’s remand by seven more days, investigating officer API Satish Hodgar told the court that the probe also focused on details obtained from Santosh’s friends regarding the calls he often made to Antara using their phones and on establishing the identity of other suspects with whom he colluded for allegedly executing a “planned crime”. 
 
 Hodgar told the court that Santosh has not cooperated with the police probe yet and that a chemical analysis (CA) report on Antara’s mobile phone was expected in a day or two from the central forensic lab in Pune. Clues obtained from this report would require Santosh’s interrogation in custody, he submitted.
 
 Assistant public prosecutor A S Thakur argued in support of the police plea and pointed out that Santosh’s seven-day custodial interrogation so far was not enough in revealing full details of the “planned murder”. First class judicial magistrate H Y Kawale, however, extended Santosh’s remand in police custody till January 9. 
 
 Antara’s family members later told police that Santosh, who came in contact with Antara at a training in Bengaluru before she joined   in Pune, was harassing and stalking her. 
 
 Santosh was brought to Pune and arrested on December 28, 2016. The following day, the Wadgaon Maval court ordered his remand in police custody till January 4. 
 
 Lawyer  , who appeared for Santosh, argued that the police have made no progress in the seven days of his custodial remand and was seeking its extension by citing almost the same reasons that were furnished earlier. 
 
 Gunjal argued that the suspect was in Bengaluru at the time of the murder in the Dehu road area and it was not the police’s case that the suspect was absconding. Nor did the suspect do anything like deleting data from his cellphone, he said.
 
 
