Cox's Bazar in south-east Bangladesh is groaning under the pressure of Rohingya refugees with over 4 lakh of them crossing over from   and taking shelter in hundreds of camps that have mushroomed between Shah Porir Dwip and Kutupalang. According to government officials, this is the largest refugee migration since the partition of   in 1947 when 15 lakh Muslims crossed over to then East Pakistan from   and Bihar.

 But this isn't the first time Bangladesh has had to deal with Rohingya refugees. Persecuted by the Myanmar Army ,   have been arriving in Bangladesh for decades.
 
 Abdur Rashid was barely two years old when he came from the   state to Bangladesh in 1992 following a spate of violence. Penniless, his parents spent nights in the open before they got accommodated in a camp at Nayapara. A quarter of a decade later, he still lives in the camp. The best memory he has of the place is when he attended community school. “School was the loveliest place. We got to study till Class V . Then our dreams ended. I wanted to study further, but there was no scope,“ he recalled. Rashid tried to get a job but could not due to restric tions imposed by the government. Eventually, he got the job of volunteer with UNHCR and now receives a stipend of around Taka 1,500.
 
 Watching the columns of smoke rise across river Naf, Md Siddiqui, a man in mid-30s, said he knows they are from villages that have recently been torched.“Living in squalid tents on a hillock is not easy. But I would rather die here than walk back to face the torture. We will return only if the Myanmar government treats us like human beings,“ Siddiqui said.
 
 The refugees are currently living on aid provided by the Bangladeshi government and NGOs. But as days roll by and the spotlight shifts to another exigency or calamity , the situation in the camps will become more difficult. For the likes of him and Rashid who migrated here decades ago, the memories of Myanmar is so vague that it now appears like a foreign country .They speak and read the language of the country they've found shelter in.
 
 “Till international pressure forces a solution, there is no point in going back to Myanmar.Let them (Myanmar government) treat Rohingyas as citizens first,“ said Rashid. But Bangladesh is already feeling the burden of migrants on its soil. The country's prime minister,  , wants Myanmar to take its people back. 
 
