NEW DELHI: Union home minister   on Tuesday said radicalisation in the north-eastern states, many of which share borders with countries like Bangladesh, has emerged as a fresh challenge, with agents operating in the name of religion, NGOs, socio-cultural activity and educational development.

 Addressing a meeting here on issues related to Northeast, Singh said the northeast region is vulnerable to radicalisation due to its own sensitivity as well as that of its adjoining areas. "Hence, it is important to identify agents of radicalisation, closely monitor their activities and take action where necessary," he said.
 
 The review meeting was attended by Singh, MoS (DoNER)  , MoS (Home) Kiren Rijiju, NSA   and senior officers of the Central government and all north-eastern states.
 
 "Some of these (radicalisaton) agents get foreign funding. Hence it is important that we closely monitor the flow and utilisation of foreign funds," he said.
 
 According to home ministry adviser Ashok Prasad, the threat of radicalisation was discussed between the Centre and north-eastern states in the light of some presence of outfits like Jamaat ul Mujahideen Bangladesh, the outfit behind Burdwan blasts, and Harkat ul Jihadi Islami (Bangladesh) in states like  . Even   has generated interest among young Muslims, though there is no known case yet of an IS-affiliated module in the north-east. Al Qaeda has in the past spoken of making bases in Assam.
 
 "Some organisations in the region are trying to radicalise people, but the extent is certainly not of the level seen in states like Kerala. The meeting emphasised the need to be alert and contain the threat of radicalisation," Prasad told newspersons after the meeting.
 
 Earlier, the home minister in his opening remarks said that though the security situation had considerably improved in the north-eastern states, with militancy and insurgency now limited to a few pockets, normal policing functions like crime prevention had suffered due to the police's preoccupation with fighting insurgency all these years.
 
 He said the rate of prosecution and conviction of criminal cases in the north-eastern states is very poor, with one state recording a rate of just 5% as compared to all-India average of 86%. "In some states, the rate of prosecution and conviction in cases like extortion, kidnapping and abduction is 1%, which is unacceptable," he pointed out.
 
 Also mentioning cyber crime as a major security threat, the home minister recalled how circulation of inflammatory videos of ethnic clashes had created a problem in 2012. "The northeastern states must have IT-trained police officers," he said.
 
 Mentioning the ongoing peace agreements with various northeast insurgent groups, Singh said their armed cadres needed to confine themselves to designated camps and observe ground rules of cessation of hostilities.
 Also raising the menace of illegal arms trade, Singh said though the northeastern region was largely free from militancy, proliferation of illegal arms was on the rise. He advised the DGPs of north-eastern states to run a campaign against traders and holders of illegal arms within their respective jurisdiction.
 
 Similarly, he called for better policing in border areas to contain the problems of illegal drugs trade and smuggling of fake Indian currency.
 
