PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor   on Saturday appointed three vice-chancellors and eight pro-vice-chancellors of different universities for a period of three years. The appointments were made following consultations with chief minister Nitish Kumar at Raj Bhavan in the morning.
 
  Former Patna College principal   and Patna University (PU) physics department head and students’ welfare dean   would be PU vice-chancellor and pro-VC, respectively. PU zoology department head and Padma Shri Ravindra Kumar Sinha, popularly known as ‘Dolphin Man’, has been appointed Nalanda Open University (NOU) VC.
  
   , principal of Rashtriya Sanskrit Sansthan, Tripura, has been appointed Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (KSDSU) VC. Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU) professor Candreshwar Prasad Singh would be the KSDSU pro-VC.
  
  Others who have been appointed pro-VCs include PU geography department head Karya Nand Paswan ( ), Urdu teacher at Jayaprakash University, Chhapra, Syed Rafiq Ahmad (Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University), Ram Yatan Prasad of Vinoba Bhave University, Hazaribagh (TMBU), R K College (Madhubani) principal Raj Kumar Mandal (Bhim Rao Ambedkar Bihar University, Muzaffarpur), Kurukshetra University economics teacher Madan Mohan Goel (Veer Kunwar Singh University, Ara) and Allahabad University professor Jai Gopal (L N Mithila University).
  
  Raj Bhavan sources said Maulana Mazharul Haque Arabic and Persian University VC could not be appointed from the panel submitted by the search committee as two of the three candidates figuring in the panel were reportedly facing vigilance charges and the third one did not belong to the minority community. The search committee had reportedly recommended the names of its former VC Ezaj Ali Arshad, North Eastern Hill University professor Fazal Qadri and BHU professor H K Singh.
  
  Similarly, NOU pro-VC could not be appointed as the search committee had submitted a single name of former A N College principal Bihari Singh for the post. The post is likely to be advertised again, said sources.
  
  Earlier, the chancellor had appointed new VCs of VKSU and JPU on January 23 and those of MU, LNMU and TMBU on March 20. All these posts were advertised in October and the chancellor constituted separate search committees for them. The offices of almost all the VCs and pro-VCs fell vacant on January 31 this year and the senior-most teachers were made in-charge VCs.
