PUNE:   ranks 18th among educational institutions and 10th in the universities’ category in the country on a scale put together by National Institutional Ranking Framework. 

 The rankings, which puts out a better understanding of educational institutes in the country, were released by the Union ministry of human resource and development in Delhi on Monday. 
 
 SPPU is the only university in the top 20 from Maharashtra after the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, in the number three position. The   (IISER), Dr D Y Patil Vidyapeeth,   and Symbiosis International University are among the other universities that figured in the top 100 from Pune.
 
 SPPU vice-chancellor, W N Gade, said, “This was the first time we participated in the NIRF assessment and put up a commendable job. There are few more areas where we need to focus so that we perform better. We shall start working in that direction. It is great to see that the university has achieved the highest points in the student placement field that shows the efforts taken by the entire team and faculty members.”
 
 Principal director of Symbiosis Society Vidya Yeravadekar said, “We were rather expecting a rank within top 50 in the universities category. But we are happy to be positioned 61st because it is among 750 universities in the country and pretty good ranking.”
 
 This ranking was released under five categories — overall, colleges, universities, management and engineering. IISc Bengaluru figured at the top in the overall and universities’ categories. 
 
 The ranking was decided on the basis of teaching-learning-resources, research-professional practice-collaborative performance, graduation outcomes and outreach of an educational institution.
 
 A A Natu, convenor of IISER, Pune, said, “Despite our institution being just a decade old, we have managed a good position in a short period.”
 
 Meanwhile, the surprise element was Bharati Vidyapeeth that has achieved a rank in all the categories.Vice-chancellor of Bharati Vidyapeeth, Shivaji Kadam said, “There are many factors to our success and it is appreciable that our university and institutions figure in each and every category. For us, research is our soul and we have focussed more on central government-funded projects.
 
