A likely roadshow by   chief   at Allahabad and a letter from the BJP candidate in each constituency are the BJP's latest campaign tools, besides its social media team coming up with videos highlighting laxity in the SP government's functioning. 

 While Shah is likely to hold a roadshow in Allahabad to boost the morale of party candidates, the party has started sending off the candidates' letters, duly signed by the candidate of the particular constituency, to the public.
 
 In all, 3.5 crore letters are to be sent, a party think tank told TOI. The   to voters highlights corruption, government apathy towards farmers, etc. The BJP calls it the "family voter slip".
 
 
  
 
 The responsibility for sending the letters, which seeks votes for the BJP, has been entrusted to sector- and booth-level workers. The letter also carries the voter ID card details of the said voter.
 
  Interestingly, the letters are being sent to each constituency about eight to 10 days before the election date. From the constituencies, the letters are distributed to each person in charge of a booth who then has these letters sent to the voter's house. To give the campaign a personalised feel, each letter is addressed to the head of the family and bears the house address of the voter, a party leader said. 
 
 About Shah's roadshow plan, a party think tank said a final decision would be taken on Sunday. However, as per the initial plan, Shah was to hold a roadshow for around two to three hours and mobilise party workers and voters. The BJP think tank said since most other constituencies were being covered by star campaigners Allahabad would be covered by a roadshow by Shah.
 
  Meanwhile, BJP IT cell has come up with videos that show atrocities on women and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav admitting there was corruption in UP. The video clips are being circulated through various social media platforms. The idea is to show the masses that power was misused by SP government, said media in charge Harish Srivastava. 
 
 
