GURUGRAM:   lodged a complaint with the  , saying they have subjected to “house arrest” by vehicles belonging to outsiders who crowd internal roads and park on the roadside, leaving “little space for residents to move about”. 

 They said they were left with no option, after “repeated complaints to MCG and traffic police fell on deaf ears”. On Saturday, traffic cops finally called them for a meeting to resolve their problem, and promised to find a solution within a week. 
 
 “Ever since redevelopment of   began around a year ago, we’ve literally been forced under house arrest,” said complainant Bhim Singh Yadav, a resident. He continued, “There is no way we can leave our homes, due to the number of vehicles that pass by our narrow internal roads. A majority of these vehicles ferry the around 40,000 employees working in the adjoining  . The drivers also illegally park these vehicles inside our colony, leaving little space for us to move about. At times, it takes about an hour just to drive out of our colony gate, as there are innumerable cabs parked right outside.”
 
 “We have been following up with MCG and traffic police, but so far, our efforts proved futile. That is when we decided to lodge a complaint at the CM Window. Finally, the traffic cops intervened, and have assured us of a quick solution. Apart from these illegally-parked vehicles, there are several encroachments on the approach road to our colony, and we want MCG authorities to remove these as well,” he said.
 
 Traffic cops said they have had a series of meetings with the SEZ authorities, and have directed them not to park their vehicles inside the nearby residential areas. “Within the next few days, we will ensure the cabs and buses which pick and drop thousands of employees, are parked within the SEZ premises. We’ll also stop the practice of dropping and picking up employees right on the road. The buses and cabs will have to pick up and drop the SEZ employees from within the SEZ. This will reduce the massive traffic jams witnessed on this road every day,” said a police official.
 
 
