It was not easy for Rohan (name changed) to feign happiness when his friends discussed their plans for Durga Puja. Kolkata is decked up like a bride, and a festive energy flowed through the veins of the city. Rohan woke up early with thoughts of his father—he will be meeting him after a long time. Deep inside his heart, he knew they would not be going pandal hopping like other kids or eat jalebis from the famous sweetshop that other parents would be taking their children to. He readied himself to spend an hour with his father in a public place. But what he did not know was that they would under the surveillance of CCTVs and a group of policemen dressed in plain clothes. All because his parents, now legally separated, are fighting for   during this festive season. 

 Yes, children of legally separated couples are suffering heavily during the festive season of Durga Puja. While other children are busy doing rounds in the pandals watching idols or participating in various celebrations, certain unfortunate young souls are compelled to dwell in uncertainty regarding the matter of legal custody.
 
 According to a recent report published in Ei Samay, Magistrate Sambuddha Chakraborty of the Vacational Bench of the Calcutta High Court, personally asked three children, who are staying with their legally separated mother, regarding their wish. Among them, the six-year-old girl child wished to stay with her mother, while her younger brothers wished to see their father during the Durga Puja. The father, a Chartered Accountant by profession, was granted the permission to meet them during the festive days for an hour every day at public park under police surveillance!
  
  
 According to Dr. Vageshwari Deswal, senior faculty member, Faculty of Law,  , the law has the best interest of the child but parents forget to take this into consideration while fighting for a child’s legal custody. “As per the Section 13 of the Hindu Minor and Guardianship Act, welfare of the minor is of paramount consideration,” said Deswal, adding, “However, a child is made to suffer because of irresponsible parenting. The children could have spent a better time during this season if the parents would have acted in an amicable way.”
 
 One of the major objectives of the law is to make sure that a child remains unscathed. But lack of trust makes many parents take irrational steps and end up hurting their children. “Disputing parents have a feeling of mistrust. A mother might think that the child may be harmed by his father if left alone. While they act on their impulses, the best interest of the child is somewhere lost,” added Deswal
  
  
 There are perhaps hundreds of children of legally separated parents who dread festivals, or for that matter, any occasion that requires a family. According to Dr. Samir Parikh, Director,   and Behavioural Sciences, Fortis Healthcare, it is typical for the child to draw comparisons within his peers and community, and therefore is likely to feel a sense of isolation.
 
 “Especially in Indian cultures, festivities are typically celebrated with the family as a unit, and therefore such restrictions are likely to make the child draw further comparisons with other families around him or her. In fact, the special circumstances can also make the child feel deprived of the emotional support and love,” said Dr. Parikh.
 
 So, is there a solution to this? “First of all, support from other members of the family is a must, be it the grandparents or other members of the extended family, who should not get caught in the conflict between the parents,” suggested Dr. Parikh.
 While a child should not witness fights or arguments, but it is equally important to communicate the reality of the situation to the child in an appropriate manner. “The child should not be deprived of maintaining a relationship with either parental figures, unless there is a risk of potential harm to the child’s well-being or safety,” said Dr Parikh, adding, “And last but not the least, the child should be encouraged to talk about his or her feelings and emotions, be it to a family member, friend or confidante, or reaching out for professional help should be considered.”
 
 (Reporter: Amit Chakraborty) 
  
 
