PUNE: The   of Nandan Prospera cooperative   on   terminated the services of the security agency deployed in their complex after six flats were simultaneously burgled in January 2014.

 Its residents are now more cautious about visitors to the society and have also installed superior security mechanisms. Most importantly, they have carefully chosen the agency that now provides them security guards.
 
 In the aftermath of the murder of woman techie   OP by the   of the company where she worked, the spotlight is back on the credentials of the private security agencies providing services.
 
 Several societies appoint guards that charge the lowest. “It is just to show that the society has a security guard but he may not be of help in case there is an emergency. The main problem in getting good security guards is the cost factor. Several members in the society do not pay maintenance contributions regularly and officials are forced to cut corners,” an office-bearer who did not wish to be quoted. 
 
 According to Rahul K Bhonsle (retd), director of Security Risks Asia, most housing societies fail to adequately verify the credentials of the agencies as well as the security guards. 
 
 Bhonsle stresses on the need to not only rope in the services of registered agencies, but also continuously monitor the behaviour of the guards on duty. He also suggests deploying more women security guards, at least during the day time.
 
 “Most people arrested for property crimes are men between 18-21 years old. They frequently live near their target areas and are familiar with the neighbourhood. If they perceive a multi-residential community to be well protected, they are deterred and move to what they think is an easier target. The growth of gated communities too has not deterred criminals as they are able to exploit security gaps, infiltrate or cultivate persons working in these colonies to advantage thereby gaining a friendly entry and exit to commit crime,” Bhonsle said.
 
 While Bhonsle strongly advises against making cost the principal selection criteria of security agencies, he admits that is the general trend across cities.
 
 Reflecting the usual practice among housing societies, K A Rashmi Bhatia, in-charge of the security of Gateway cooperative housing society in Balewadi said, “We go by our gut feeling of the reliability of the security agency and the cost involved. Ultimately, we have to choose what fits our budget. We are not conducting any verification of our own regarding the credentials of the guards and trust the agency that we have deployed. We have laid down behaviourial guidelines for the guards and go by feedback of residents.”
 
 As residents, it is important that the security guards be constantly alert and trained, said Kishore Hosangady of Eves Garden society on Baner Road. 
 
 “We recently changed the security agency as we were all dissatisfied. We wanted the guards to be constantly vigilant, remain awake at night, guard all the entry points round the clock and follow security drill especially about allowing in visitors,” he said.
 
 Residents need to be equally vigilant about security and standard operating procedures must be laid down for the security guards, David D'souza, former chairman of Nandan Prospera, said.
 
 “Earlier, we were taking the word of the security agency regarding the police verification. Now, we are more cautious. We have also opted for more guards who have earlier been with the armed forces. We are now seeking greater involvement of the local police for ensuring more patrolling in the area and greater interaction with the residents,” he said. 
 
 
