 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 You might have laughed with her, cried along with her and even would have thought to put some sense in her when her character was stuck in the saas-bahu rut. TV’s well-known bahu   was recently in Ahmedabad. Amidst her busy promotional activities, she settled down for a quick chat with AT. From working in a Gujarati movie,   on TV to how she handles success and failure, Drashti shares her thoughts. Excerpts: 
 
 
 
 As of now there’s nothing happening on that front, but I’m glad that this industry is growing. The last Gujarati movie I saw was 
  with my husband, and we both loved it. I would certainly love to do a movie in the same genre or work in a comedy film with an interesting storyline.
 
 
 
 While it is a good thing that TV is opening up to interesting concepts, the sad truth is that people still enjoy watching regressive shows, where the women of the house is either treated like a doormat, or is crying inconsolably. Another reason is the audience like such things, which results in getting higher TRPs. Neeraj ( her husband) and I loved watching 
  because of its concept. But the audience didn’t enjoy it much and it will be off air soon. Also actors would prefer to take up such shows, rather than sitting idle at home for months. 
 
 
 
 Yes, but then the people who are doing this accounts for only 10-20%. Large number of   still like to watch these regressive shows which is why they are a hit.
 
 
 
 Absolutely not. Youngsters are glued to it, but if you see the TV viewership majorly consists of the urban population. Maybe in a couple of years, web series will give a tough competition for TV, but not now. 
 
 
 
 I don’t think so. There are many actresses who are getting married in the near future or are married and doing some interesting work in every medium of entertainment. 
 
 
 
 Luckily, for me I have seen more success than failure, so I feel blessed. But I believe both are equally important and you should never let any of them affect you. Take both in your stride and keep working. 
 
 
