Known for his knack of highlighting social issues through cinema, Hyderabadi filmmaker   is back with a heart-wrenching tale that deals with the grave issue of farmers’ suicide in the country. Titled  , the 120-minute feature film in Hindi emphasises on 25 major issues concerning the agrarian crisis, farmers’ challenges and solutions to resolve them.
“Mitti is a story of a young agricultural scientist, Ekta, who delves deep into the issue and explores alternative paths to solve it. It’s based on real life stories of farmers who lost their lives chasing the dreams of big yields,” says Anshul.
 It was 2015, and the news of farmers committing suicide had become an everyday affair, when Anshul thought of turning his cinematic lens to highlight the concern. From scanning   (NCRB) data, attending kisaan sammelans to practically learning about agricultural practices, Anshul and his team did thorough research for nine months before the first draft of the script was prepared. 
 “After the initial nine months, we also conducted a month-long workshop from June to August 2016 on agriculture science and farming. The film is a result of over a year of research on subjects such as farm crisis, farmer suicides, pesticide poisoning and land grabbing that push farmers to resort to the extreme step,” he says, adding that they finally drafted the screenplay in September 2016. “We made a storyboard for 2,000 frames and did a dummy shoot of the complete project with theatre actors in a single room,” he says.
 Anshul knew from before that it wouldn’t be easy to go about doing so much research without a subject expert on board. He found his man in Dr GV Ramanjaneyulu, an agricultural scientist and executive director at the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Hyderabad. The two had earlier met during the screening of Anshul’s 11 international-nomination-winning film,  , and when he approached   with the offer, the renowned scientist obliged him and eventually became the associate director of the project. 
 “I was intrigued as the film was based on real life stories of farmers and tried to provide solutions to overcome the crisis. The whole idea was to communicate about the crisis to the world and where we — the consumers, farmers and government — are going wrong, leading to their suicides. There are several production and market level and public policy issues which are accentuating the crisis. How we can rectify all these issues is what the film deals with,” says Ramanjaneyulu.
 He adds that the stories highlighted in this film have been culled from different parts of India, including Punjab, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “About 40 people have acted in the film and all of them are from Telangana,” he says. 
 The team completed its pre-production work and was raring to go when a new challenge popped up. As it often happens with independent filmmakers, no producer was keen to put money into the project given its research-driven content. But that barely deterred Anshul and he decided to rely on crowd-funding. “We were looking for a producer since December 2015 and had approached various production houses in Hyderabad, Mumbai and Chennai but with no luck. I didn’t even get a chance to show my work to some of them as they were not interested in projects based on research works. It was then that we decided to crowdfund it,” says Anshul.
 Crowdfunding couldn’t cover all of Anshul’s production cost, and yet the award-winning director went ahead with the project with whatever little they got. “My cast and crew chipped in. With their efforts and cooperation, we could finish the shoot on time,” he avers. 
 The issue of finance was not completely been resolved when they stumbled into a new hurdle — lack of distributors, something they are battling till date. “The reason we are unable to find a distributor in the country is because our film deals with a real issue and we don’t have big names associated with it. Sadly, all the ‘big names’ are not interested to even look into the seriousness of the issue when we approached them. I can manage screening for a selected audience but the film requires a theatrical release to reach out to the common man,” says Ramanjaneulu.
 Given this challenge, Anshul is considering turning to his most trusted friend — film festivals. With 104 awards from across the globe for issue-driven films, Anshul is eyeing international film festivals. “Had we been able to find a distributor, we could have dubbed Mitti into multiple languages — Telugu, Tamil and Marathi. But now we will be having its international release at film festivals,” he concludes. 
 
