Seetha.Lakshmi Bengaluru: One of the pre-eminent boarding schools of the country, The Doon School, wants more boys from the South. With less than 4% of the students on its rolls (22 of 580) coming from the five southern states, the 82-year-old institution, where fathers register their sons at birth for admission, is seeing a dwindling number of South Indian students. “We are looking at directing our bursaries, broadening our pool of applicants by collaborating with not-for-profit school groups in the region, and doing what we can to grow people’s awareness. Doon has, historically, had boys from the South but with the end of government scholarships in 1990s, and the growth of good day schools around the country, we are seeing fewer applicants,” The Doon School headmaster Matthew Raggett told TOI. Since early 2000, the school has been building its bursary fund with a view to having a needs-blind admission process. This, Matthew said, is to ensure that they support any exceptional boy who requires financial aid to come to The Doon School. “We would be delighted to have five times as many boys from the southern states; this would help redress the balance,” he said. The mission that drives The Doon School is to ‘attract and develop exceptional boys and masters from all backgrounds’. “We want to make sure that our admission process allows us to find those boys and live up to a meritocratic vision for the school and the country. The Doon School is looking for exceptional boys from all backgrounds to live and learn together and to serve a meritocratic India. We are particularly interested in receiving applications from boys in the South and East of the country, as these regions are currently under-represented,” the headmaster said. “The Old Boys Society and Friends of the School are able to offer financial aid to anyone we accept who needs it,” he said. Over 25% of Doon students receive needs-based bursaries, including several that cover all costs associated with attending the school. Every year, hundreds of boys take tests in the first round of the admission process of The Doon School. “Some are registered at birth by fathers who want their sons to follow in their footsteps, others up to a month or so before the test, by people who have become aware of the school by word of mouth. Traditionally we have tested English, Maths, Hindi, Verbal and Non-Verbal Reasoning; the idea being that these would indicate a boy’s capacity for success at the school,” Matthews explained. The tests are then followed by an interview for those who meet what is agreed to be a suitable cut-off. NEW TESTS IN ADMISSION PROCESS Headmaster Matthew Raggett has brought in some changes in the selection process this year because, as he says, The Doon School is looking for not only exceptional boys in the classroom but also exceptional community members. Students aspiring to be on the Doon rolls in April 2017 had to take part in group interviews rather than individual one-on-ones. “This was because the prospect of 189 individual interviews was not one that I relished, particularly when they provide no evidence of how a boy would interact with his peers,” Matthew pointed out. The school will introduce a new paper on current topics which will get the students to work on a case study. “This is to make the boys think about something happening in the country or the world and explore how their experience relates to it. We want to see how their underlying assumptions, ethics and values help them understand the world,” Matthew said. In future, the Verbal and Non-Verbal Reasoning tests will be combined into one and the questions will be altered, so they are less like the papers one can find in the marketplace. “We are not interested in seeing who can be trained to take a test, rather we want to see who can think, recognize patterns, analyze information, make predictions and apply what they know to be new situations,” the headmaster explained.