NEW DELHI: The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) audit of income tax searches of last four years, including the ones on   and   groups, has been facing roadblocks with the tax department not forthcoming with details despite repeated reminders from the auditor.

 The government’s official auditor had initiated the audit last year and had written to the central board of direct taxes ( ), the administrative authority of the I-T department, sometime in mid-2016 for the first time to share information on important I-T raids. Thereafter it has sent multiple reminders but has not been successful in getting those appraisal reports.
 
 Multiple I-T searches were carried out on the Aditya Birla group in October 2013, and the one on Sahara group was conducted in November 2014. The two searches are part of the CAG scrutiny, and significant considering the opposition parties had levelled allegations of pay-offs made to PM   when he was Gujarat CM.
 
 A source said the I-T department has not yet provided details on the searches. An audit team had also visited the Central Circle of the I-T department in Mumbai which handles post search assessment of important cases, such as the one on the Aditya Birla group which is much in the news after a public interest litigation (PIL) in the   raised the issue of political pay-offs in the case.
 
 Interestingly, the I-T’s appraisal reports in connection with the Aditya Birla and Sahara groups are available to the petitioner who has moved the apex court with an additional affidavit giving details of the searches and recovery of evidence related to the alleged political pay-offs.
 
 The counsel for petitioner Common Cause,  , has extensively quoted from the I-T’s appraisal reports to demand an inquiry against politicians who have allegedly been bribed by the corporate houses.
 
 As part of its direct tax audit, the government’s official auditor is trying to ascertain the purpose of various searches conducted by the I-T department, the basis of such searches and their outcomes. 
 
 In most of the high-profile cases, though there are huge disclosures made at the time of the search, the accused have often retracted from their statements resulting in no gain to the exchequer.
 
 The documents recovered during the raids on the Birla and Sahara groups purportedly indicated pay-offs made to top political leaders, including Narendra   when he was the Gujarat CM and   when she was the Delhi CM. The seized documents have allegedly mentioned few other names, like that of Madhya Pradesh CM   and   CM Raman Singh among other beneficiaries of the political pay-offs.
 
 All the above allegations of pay-offs form part of a PIL filed in the SC which is currently hearing the case and has posted the matter for next hearing on January 11. Advocate Prashant Bhushan has also placed on record of the apex court copies of documents seized by the I-T department during the raids on the two groups.
 
 Though the court has raised questions on the authenticity of the documents, it allowed the petitioner to file additional evidence in support of its allegation against Modi and other political leaders.
 
 Bhushan had contended that he had voluminous I-T appraisal reports in his possession that discloses details of transactions, substantiating allegations of pay-offs.
 
