GOA: From super profits to distress sales, the   in South Goa’s   belt has witnessed a roller coaster ride since the mining boom rocked the state during the early part of this century. 

 When   was at its peak, Curchorem and Sanvordem witnessed rising levels of prosperity, if the spurt in trade and commerce coupled by a surge in real estate prices was anything to by. Large-scale trading of   here gave rise to a  . And if real estate sales figures measure prosperity, the mining belt was riding on a wave of newly-acquired disposable money generated through the mining trade — legal or otherwise.
 
 “Mining trade generated lot of black money,” an industry watcher told TOI.
 
 Nearly 200-250% of this rise was ‘fictitious’ largely due to the black money factor, the industry watcher said. “As real estate was the major source that could absorb a lot of black money, at least until it was struck by the demonetization move, the increased demand for investment in real estate had led to a situation where there was an almost 500% rise in property prices during the period from 2004 to 2012.” 
 
 Business analysts believe that though the ‘mining windfall’ contributed to affluence in Goa, the riches from eastern Goa contributed to the land price spiral, and was more evident in other parts of the state. In the tourism belt of North Goa, land prices rose by 10 times, while those in the mining belt went up four-fold. Analysts attribute this skewed rise to mining-associated problems like noise pollution and traffic hazards that made residents to migrate westwards or to invest in properties elsewhere. Financial experts were unanimous in their observation that the boom burst, as and when it comes about, would bring about a “correction factor” into play in the real estate prices.
 
 The Supreme Court-imposed mining ban in 2012 did just that. The chequered pattern of the real estate trade is evident from the following example. An office space in a centrally-located area in Curchorem that was priced at Rs 8000/sq m in 2004, came to be sold at a pre-construction rate of a whopping Rs 45,000/sq m during 2011-12, months before the mining ban. Post the ban, real estate economy slumped, and the same space is now sold at a much lesser rate. It’s a buyer’s market now, industry observers point out. 
 
 Sample this — a 100 sq m 2BHK flat in Curchorem which cost upward of Rs 34 lakhs in 2011-12, is now offered at less that Rs 25 lakhs. Financial analysts believe that the reduced demand for apartments has led to lowering of prices by at least 20-25%.
 
 While low volumes exerted pressure on the prices to dip, bringing about correction, late entrants into the real estate industry who had hoped to make a quick buck during the mining boom period found themselves in a fix. 
 
 “After keeping their apartments unsold for four years after the mining ban, they are now out to sell them at distress prices. But these are few and far between, as most builders are waiting for the market to pick momentum after mining resumes on a larger scale,” an industry watcher observed. 
 
 “Changing economic conditions have given rise to a need to sell these shops and apartments that were primarily purchased to clean the black money,” Pradip Kakodkar, a chartered accountant, told TOI. “While this may not be a positive development for the overall economy at the macro level, the ‘corrected prices’, though not yet affordable for the middle class, had brought about the much-needed sanity in the real estate market of South Goa’s mining belt. Builders have stopped making super profits.” 
 
 Players in the real estate industry are, nevertheless, keeping their fingers crossed. 
 
 Realtor Sameer Naik says that though inquiries have increased of late, they aren’t translating into sales. “It will take some time for the real estate market to pick up,” he says. “We are waiting for the mining industry to achieve some degree of stability. Though mining has resumed, people are apprehensive about its reliability and hence reluctant to invest the mining income into real estate.” 
 
 “That doesn’t mean prices have come down, as the construction cost has gone up over the years owing to rising cost of cement, sand, and labour,” Naik added. He however acknowledged that distress sale was very much in play, though to a “very less extent”. 
 
 Another realtor, Nasir Sharif, says that more than the mining ban, it is demonetization that has hit the real estate industry hard. “Contrary to expectations, the demonetization exercise hasn’t resulted in liquidity in the market. Reduced cash flow for a prolonged period coupled with low comfort levels among the rural people in cashless transactions has resulted in a stagnant market for the construction industry in the mining belt,” Sharif told TOI. It’s a wait and watch approach for the industry.
 
