LUCKNOW: In a sudden move,   on Wednesday expelled her close aide and   Naseemuddin Siddiqui and his son Afzal from the party on charges of anti-party activities. Siddiqui, a powerful leader in the BSP, was in charge of party activities in west UP during the state  .

 Siddiqui was BSP’s Muslim face and party leader in the UP legislative council. Announcing the decision,   national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra said Siddiqui was accused of extorting money from party workers and setting up illegal slaughterhouses in west UP. Siddiqui was also accused of having amassed illegal wealth when he was cabinet minister in the BSP government, Mishra added.
 
 Siddiqui denied the charges and instead claimed he was harassed by Mayawati, her brother Anand Kumar, and BSP general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra. He said he would prove similar charges against Mayawati. Siddiqui also accused BSP chief of criticizing the upper castes, backwards and Muslims after BSP’s defeat in the UP elections. “Two generations of my family have served the party. This is highly unfortunate,” he added.
 
 Party sources said the decision to expel Siddiqui was taken in the wake of BSP’s poor performance in UP elections. Mayawati had relied on Siddiqui while giving nearly 100 tickets to Muslim candidates in assembly elections as part of her Dalit-Muslim consolidation plan to take on the BJP. But only five Muslim candidates won, leaving Mayawati red-faced.
 
 A senior BSP functionary, Siddiqui wielded control on party’s organizational structure. Mayawati had appointed him as her representative in announcing tickets to candidates during UP polls. He was also instrumental in orchestrating defections from SP and Congress in favour of the BSP.
 
 Not surprisingly, Siddiqui’s expulsion triggered a spate of resignations from party workers. Within an hour of his expulsion, former BSP MP Salim Ansari, former MLC and member of party’s Kshatriya brotherhood committee Pradeep Singh, former MLA Irshad Khan and Lucknow division secretary Laxman Bharti resigned from the party’s primary membership. Sources said more BSP functionaries are likely to resign in protest.
 
 Siddiqui was caught in a controversy in July last year when he led a protest by BSP workers where they made personal comments on the women family members of BJP leader Dayashankar Singh. The BSP workers were protesting against Singh’s indecent remarks on Mayawati.
 
 
