LUCKNOW: It’s the onset of a new battle for  , who has been named the Bharatiya Janata Party’s candidate from   constituency in Lucknow. “My real fight against the BSP leaders who made unsavoury remarks against me and my minor daughter, has begun now”, remarked the housewife-turned-feisty politician.

 Just six months back, Swati was a housewife rearing her two children at her Aashiana residence, when suddenly her husband and   vice-president Daya Shankar Singh’s alleged remarks against BSP chief   posed a new challenge in her life.
 
 A crestfallen BJP leadership, in a damage control move, dismissed Daya Shankar from the party. Moreover, the rank and file of the saffron party continued to remain on the back foot before a belligerent Mayawati, who had rejected the apology by Union finance minister, Arun Jaitely in the Parliament. The party’s state headquarters was deserted amid strong protests by the BSP leaders, who while attacking Daya Shankar reverberated the air with the slogan, “Daya Shankar Singh apni beti pesh karo, pesh karo; Daya Shankar Singh apni biwi pesh karo, pesh karo”, during their agitation against the expelled BJP leader (Daya Shankar Singh bring your daughter and your wife before us).
 
 Swati’s husband was on the run after being declared wanted by the police, while Swati was confined with her two children and an ageing mother in a room facing threats from BSP workers.
 
 While the entire BJP was missing and the party headquarters wore a pale look, a determined Swati left her home along with her mother and reached Hazratganj, the main market of the state capital, to dare the BSP leaders saying she was presenting herself before them with her minor daughter.
 
 Within an hour women, girls and public stood in her support. She held the fort on TV channels for the next three days, turning the tables against BSP and reviving life in the BJP office. “In the fight between Daya Shankar Singh and the BSP, why are the BSP leaders dragging my minor daughter, my old mother and me”, she thundered, daring Mayawati to reply to her question.
 
 Talking to ToI, she said that she need not comment on the BSP candidate or the party’s leaders as the “people of the state know their true characters and their prejudices against women and girls”.
 
 In the last six months, Swati, who had been elevated as state president of the BJP’s Mahila Morcha (women’s wing), claims that she has fought for justice for women and girls by extensively touring the state.
 
 The BJP ticket to contest the Sarojininagar Assembly seat is, in fact, a recognition of her crusade and she would seek support of the people to take her campaign for justice for women, the vulnerable and the voiceless to higher levels, she said.
 
 
