WASHINGTON: US President   has invited PM   for a visit sometime later this year. The invitation was made during a phone conversation between the two in which both pledged to stand “shoulder-to-shoulder” in the global fight against terrorism, the   said on Tuesday.

 A White House read-out on the call was largely anodyne, saying, “President Trump emphasised that the United States considers India a true friend and partner in addressing challenges around the world.” The two discussed opportunities to strengthen the partnership between the US and India in broad areas such as the economy and defence, it added.
 
 According to the White House, they also discussed security in south and central Asia, without explicitly mentioning any country, even as the Trump administration’s withdrawal from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), its dissing of Nato, and its general disengagement from global affairs is unnerving many countries that see Washington ceding influence to China.
 
 There was a cautious element to the read-out, which contained none of the gushing superlatives Trump plied on India and Modi during his campaign, and none of the comical hyperbole that was reported by Pakistan in Trump’s conversation with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif after Trump’s win.
 
 The fact that the Trump administration chose to identify India as a "friend and a partner" suggested continuity, was consonant with the terminology of the Obama and Bush era, and New Delhi’s own outlook, despite the desire in some quarters to elevate the relationship to an "alliance."
 
 Calling New Delhi ahead of other capitals also appears to point to the relatively uncomplicated nature of US-India ties, despite some of Trump’s nationalistic campaign rhetoric presaging tough times for New Delhi on the trade and economic front, particularly where it concerns work visas and off-shore manufacturing.
 
 Much of US-India trade and commerce in the coming years was premised on more relaxed trade borders and New Delhi’s "Make-in-India" campaign that was expected to draw more American manufacturing to India, including in areas of defense and security. 
 
 But Trump’s America First campaign, which enjoins that American companies manufacture in the US or risk punitive tariffs, could effectively come in conflict with the commitments and plans of US companies in India. 
 
 The White House did not elaborate on the precise nature of the discussion the readout referred to on "strengthening the partnership ... in broad areas such as the economy and defense," but it is obvious that there will be a lot on the table when the two sides meet – and it will look very different from what was on the table during the Bush-Obama years.
 
 Trump’s immediate foreign engagements though will be with British Prime Minister Theresa May, starting Thursday, and with Mexico’s President Enrique Pena Nieto, next week.
 
