PANAJI: In July 2014,   said that wearing bikinis should be done away with on Goa’s beaches. Less than a year later, younger brother Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar’s wife, Lata, said at a public meeting in Margao that aping Western culture was the cause for rise in rapes. Both incidents made national headlines.

 But,  , whose family is linked to the  , is someone who has never had any qualms about being on the extreme right end of the political spectrum. 
 
 “What is wrong with the comments?” Deepak, a minor minister in the MGP-backed BJP government, had said reacting to the comments.
 
 This same outspoken nature is likely to go against Dhavalikar junior at the forthcoming polls, observers believe. Contesting from an overwhelmingly Hindu and conservative constituency of Priol, Deepak was comfortably ahead in the 2007 polls, but his winning margin narrowed down to just around 2,100 votes in the following elections. 
 
 In 2017, the proverbial apple cart, it seems, could be toppled. The main challenger being Govind Gaude, an independent candidate backed by BJP, who was the one who proved a tough competitor for Deepak at the last polls.
 
 Observers feel that while older brother Sudin is likely to sail through the polls from the Madkai constituency, though he will be contesting for a fifth term as MLA, the anti-incumbency factor seems to have set in pretty soon for his brother, who has served only two terms.
 
 “The Dhavalikars’ Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) is still seen as the party of the Bahujan Samaj and the sentiments against family raj are seen outside Priol and Madkai, but not among locals of these two constituencies. But, what will go against Deepak is that he is seen now as arrogant, and some of his own supporters have turned against him,” said Priol voter and Goa University researcher Yugank Naik.
 
 The BJP-backed Gaude is the closest option for the constituency’s right wing voters, as against AAP’s Dattaram Dessai, who has an ideological disadvantage in these conservative areas, and Congress’s 11th hour contestant Ramkrishna Jalmi. Both Dessai and Jalmi, according to observers, have hold in only limited areas of the constituency.
 
 All this will mean that Priol will yet again be a contest between two candidates. 
 
 “Gaude has been in constant touch with the voters over the last five years. The ST vote is with him, and he is supported by the BJP. Gaude has been successful in mobilizing the youth, too,” said a local.
 
 Many interior Priol areas, locals say, still remain inaccessible due to lack of tarred roads, do not get regular drinking water supply and the public transport connectivity is pathetic. There is an overwhelming sentiment that Gaude, in touch with the voters over the last five years, may change this situation for the better.
 
 “Deepak has been helping farmers financially to build bandharas, etc. He has also provided jobs. But the voters’ expectations are up, which he may not have been able to fulfil all the time and that has led to unhappiness among voters. In urban areas like Mardol and Aakar, we have all the basic civic amenities, uninterrupted,” said a Priol voter.
 
 Even when the present BJP government’s term was coming to an end, it was Deepak who had been most scathing in his criticism of the BJP, stating that the three MGP constituencies of the alliance were being neglected. This eventually led to both the brothers being dropped from the cabinet.
 
 The younger Dhavalikar, it seems, could take a lesson or two from brother Sudin, who has managed to hold on to the important PWD portfolio for the last ten years in both the Congress and BJP governments.
 
