THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The ruling LDF and opposition UDF have vehemently opposed the new restrictions brought about by the Union government in the sale of   and exhorted people who believe in democracy to rally behind the movement against it.

 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who expressed `awe' at the notification, said imposing restrictions on cattle trade was part of veiled attempt to impose   in the state. “Pluralism is the essence of Indian democracy . Now, the Union government is taking steps to destroy that. So far, the vigilantes had targeted only those who slaughter cow. But now, restrictions have been imposed on buffalo, bull and camel. Crores of people in our country eat the meat of these animals.   is interfering with the right to have food of hisher choice of the citizen,“ Vijayan said here. “If it is ban on beef today , it will be ban on fish tomorrow,“ he said.
 
 The CM also criticised the Centre for not holding any discussions with state governments before enacting a rule that is applicable for all states. “In a federal structure, the Centre has to take state into confidence.This is a move to destroy the federal structure of the country ,“ he said. Vijayan also said with this decision it has once again proven that   is holding the reins of the Modi government.
 
 Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the move was part of the efforts to steal the citizens' rights.“Each citizen has the right to decide on what to eat. Ever since the beginning, Modi government has been trying to steal the fundamental rights of citizens. Restrictions on   is the latest example,“ he said.
 
 CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan saw a motive to create communal divide in the country . “It is clear that there is a conspiracy by RSS. Such a notification was issued at a time when Muslims in the country are preparing to observe Ramadan. It will lead to serious issues in country's economy ,“ said Balakrishnan's statement.
 
 Terming the notification `anti-constitutional' and `one that violates fundamental rights', KPCC president M M Hassan said the opposition would never allow to implement the restrictions in the state. “It is anti-Constitutional to impose such restrictions in a federal structure,“ he said.
 
 Veteran CPM leader and former chief minister V S Achuthanandan said the notification is like declaring war on the people of the country . “We need to oppose attempts to surrender India's secularism before a bunch of cow vigilantes,“ he said in a statement.
 
 
 
 
 The state unit of SFI has asked its cadres to organize beef festivals in various centres in state on Saturday to protest against the Centre's notification restricting cattle trade. SFI state president Jaick C Thomas said SFI will organize beef festivals in 210 centres.
 
