CHENNAI: EEPC India, an initiative of the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry, which recently celebrated its 60th anniversary has been pushing for higher exports of Indian machinery and engineering solutions in markets as far-flung as Vietnam to Iran. B Sarkar, executive director, talks to TOI about EEPC’s policy and outlook for 2017. Excerpts: Will the Trump regime throw hurdles in the way of India’s exports to the US? We are seeing no immediate, short term impact, but there are long-term grave implications with a protectionist regime. Castings, valves, forgings, are heavily imported by US companies from Indian makers. Now, Trump can talk of ‘Make American, Buy American,’ but ultimately it will result in higher labour costs, tighter environment laws and heavier clearance for manufacturing industrial equipment. Industries there will also have to contend with a stronger union and cannot really make their products with a competitive edge. With the recent slump in the export market, how does 2017 look? While it is true that the engineering export slumped to $56 billion in 2016 from $70 billion in 2015, we expect the market to rebound. In the March quarter alone we are expecting a growth of 15%. With Chinese products flooding the market, how are Indian companies trying to be competitive? While China can produce products in mass, Indian companies offer innovation and smart solutions. For instance, if asked to produce 2,00,000 pieces of industrial valves they would surpass us in offering a superior product at a cheaper price. But when asked to custom-make an order for Siberia, withstanding high temperature, high pressure, Indian companies have the upper hand. We are a country high on innovation. For instance there is 2 HP light, compact tractor, we have designed, that is a best-seller in Bangladesh, Myanmar. That is because, we have accounted for the small-scale agriculture, lack of organised farming in these countries. Large tractors, traditional auto players have not make a dent, even as our tractors are selling like hotcakes. Have our foreign policies impacted Indian exports? More than our foreign policies, it is US foreign policy that is impacting trade. Iran is a natural ally and ports like Chabahar will prove immensely beneficial. Yet because of US sanctions, we are facing great difficulty in overseas remittances and cross-border trade. Because of cheap oil and a lot of old cars on their roads, Iran has a huge auto maintenance market. We can really deliver there and in agricultural equipment, food-processing machines — provided the foreign policy climate improves.  In the last decade, Indian exports have improved with which countries? We have really improved our relationship with SAARC nations. Apart from that we are being welcomed in countries like Vietnam, Cambodia, which have an inherent anti-China bias. They also appreciate that India provides quality over quantity in our textile machinery and other exports — unlike China. Kenya is another country, where we have made great strides in selling our food processing units. We have devised low cost ovens, dough mixture machines that help small entrepreneurs there make cookies, biscuits and special, made-to-order cakes. With an increasing protectionist policy in the US, Britain, what should be India’s response? Protectionist policies don't help anyone. Neither does mixing politics with religion. We ought to think of free trade and competitive pricing to drive economic growth worldwide. Protectionist policies will only increase the cost of manufacturing, hiring local talent and result in higher prices for the end-consumer. India's focus now is on quality; on competitive pricing; on providing end-to-end solutions. That we feel will prove a differentiating factor and make the country stand out in the world market.