Chennai: The market rally is increasingly being propelled by desi money. Equity mutual funds (MFs) have started the financial year (2017-18) with a bang investing more than twice as much money as their overseas counterparts in the first quarter (Q1) of the current financial year. Net investments by equity MFs stood at around $4.6 billion (Rs 29,708 crore) in April-June, data with markets regulator SEBI showed.

 In contrast, foreign institutional investors (FIIs) made net investments of about $2.1 billion (Rs 13,722 crore) during Q1, data with share depository NSDL showed. In fact, fund houses have deployed more money into the markets than FIIs in each of the past three months.
 
 Their net investments topped $1.4 billion every month during the quarter. The benchmark Sensex and the broad-based Nifty have gained by about 4% and 3.2% respectively during the time frame. The Sensex, which closed above the 30,000 mark in April, hit its lifetime high on June 22. The strong showing by fund houses is largely due to buoyant inflows into equity MF schemes enabling them to aggressively deploy money. Net inflows into equity funds stood at nearly $3 billion (Rs 19,050 crore) in April-May, data with the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed.
 
 “Inflows into SIPs (systematic investment plans) have been quite strong. People are now seeing the benefits of investing in financial assets,” said Sunil Singhania, chief investment officer (CIO), equity investments, Reliance MF. “There has been a good traction in inflows. The (market) fundamentals are still attractive and inflation is benign. This is enabling local investors to pour money into equity markets,” said Gopal Agrawal, CIO, equities, Tata MF. 
 
 MFs didn’t invest in a big way when overseas investors poured funds into India in March. FII net investments topped $4.8 billion (Rs 30,906 crore) during the month while fund houses deployed a mere $650 million (Rs 4,191.5 crore).
 
 Equity MFs however turned big investors from April overshadowing their larger overseas peers. They pumped nearly five times as much money as FIIs in April. They have continued with their investing spree in May and June as well. Equity funds upstaged FIIs by pumping nearly 2.4 times more money into the stock markets on a net basis in 2016. Barring odd instances such as the market meltdown in 2008 when the crash that followed the global financial crisis resulted in a massive pullout by FIIs, overseas investors have been way ahead of their equity MFs in terms of investments into Indian stock markets. Interestingly, FIIs were the biggest buyers in the post-election market rally pumping about $16 billion (about Rs 97,000) crore in 2014, nearly double the money invested by equity MFs.
 
 
