Indiawala   won reality TV show   on Sunday in a close fight with celebrity contestant  . Manveer was overwhelmed by the love that the audience gave him and was also surprised that he won even when he was contesting against Bani J. 

 Manveer, who entered as a common man, is currently the most talked about person and that makes him no less than a celebrity. After receiving his trophy, Manveer exclusively spoke to The Times Of India about his journey on the show and his future plans. (By Atharva Lobo)
 
 Here are a few excerpts from his interview. 
 
 
  
 "Ever since I picked up the trophy, people have been praising me. People are lining up for photos and they are shouting my name everywhere. People are making me feel like a star but inside, I'm still the same 'desi banda' that I always was."
 
 
 
 
 "People are telling me that I didn't quite open up in the first week. Maybe because I had a very rough look and I had the 'Gaonwala' attitude, people didn't think I am the right person to socialize with. But then as time passed, things started getting smoother."
 
 
 
 
 "During the first week I was nominated because of Bani. I felt bad at that time. Later when she became the captain, she gave me a punishment and made me clean the dishes. That's when I had thought that I will also become the captain one day and make her do something like this." 
 
 
 
 
 
 "A lot of people are saying that Manu has taken a lot of credit for my success. I often choose to let go of these things. But if Manu talks bad about me, somewhere or the other it will pinch me."
 
 
 
 "I see my relationship with Nitibha only as a friend. She might have said that she likes me and I like her. Liking is a state of mind. Sometimes you like someone only as a friend. Let's see how things go once we meet. As of now, it's nothing but friendship."
 
 
 
 
 "I knew Bani had a very big fan following. Earlier, I was scared of Bani's fan following. But then as people started coming inside the house, they started appreciating me and my confidence started growing. And when I saw the kind of people that had assembled at the mall when we were taken there, I was moved by the love that people were giving me. That's when I understood that the audience is loving me."
 
 
 
 
 "A girl like Bani is a very rare sight. A girl with lots of tattoos, muscles and abs is very rare. I feel that Bani is an inspiration for many girls as she is sending out a message that 'Ladkiyan aisi bhi hoti hai'"
 
 
 
 
 "Since day one, I gave my everything to the show. The first two weeks didn't go well for me. I even got scolded by Salman sir. But then things smoothened out. I started playing with my heart I was the guy that I am in real life. I would have been eliminated if I played with my brain.
 
 
 
 "If i get good offers in the future, I may consider shifting to Mumbai.I cannot do scripted stuff. If I'm told to do a scripted act, I tend to fumble. So, if it's a good reality show, I don't mind taking it up."
 
 
 
  
  
