THRISSUR: Just days after learning the basics of   from his maternal grandfather AA Ummar, a-five year old   started beating his grandpa in the game. His parents Sarin Abdulsalam and Shijin, both doctors, were happy with their kid’s new-found interest in chess as it kept him focused inside their rented house in Kottayam. 

 When Nihal started going to school a few months later, his parents opted roller skating for Nihal as the extra-curricular activity but had to stop it soon as they saw him coming home with bruises and injuries. Sarin searched the school prospectus and found chess in the curriculum and told teachers that Nihal, India’s latest International Master (IM) in chess, could take chess as his extra-curricular activity.
 
 But there was a minor impediment as kids from standard V onwards were given chess training at the Excelsior English School, Kottayam. “We were told that a coach comes twice a week and school officials agreed that they would introduce Nihal to the coach the next day. Next day, I got a call from the school office and the teacher told me that the coach wanted to speak to me. I was anxious and felt that the teached would ask me ‘why are you in a tearing hurry to make this five-year old play chess?’. But Mathew Pottoore, the coach, told me that ‘your kid has tremendous talent in chess and he should be given proper training’. 
 
 Nihal started learning chess from the very next class and it continues to this day” said Sarin. Apart from the routine training in school, twice a week, Pottoore started special classes for Nihal at home. He also forced Sarin to take a lifelong membership at  , Kottayam where Pottoore was the chess secretary. It was a good opportunity and Nihal would go there in the evening and play against experienced players. Soon they shifted training to Pottoore’s flat, and the trainer wanted Sarin to participate in tournaments. In his first tournament in February 2011 at Kalathipadi YMCA, Sarin finished with four points in junior category in a seven-round game which bagged him first ever cash price, a hundred rupee note. Nihal started playing more tournaments and the exposure of playing against more experienced stars played a huge role in moulding his career. 
 
 The Sarins moved to Thrissur in 2011 and Nihal joined Devamatha CMI Public school. In an exhibition match held at the school EP Nirmal, Nihal’s current coach, came to play against five students. Nihal was one among them and he beat Nirmal. And Nirmal took the kid under his wings. 2013-14 turned out to be a great period in Nihal’s career as he won his first major international title in his career, the World Under-10 blitz at Al Ain, UAE, before emerging the Under-10 Classical world champion.
 
 Meeting Ukranian GM   in 2014 helped Nihal walk into more success in the coming years. Komarov was with the UAE team where Nihal went to play through donor entry. One day, Komarov was giving tips to a UAE player but the restless kid walked away while trying to solve a puzzle. Nihal was standing there and Komarov told him to try his hand. Nihal finished the puzzle in a jiffy which impressed Komarov. Months later, Komarov visited Kerala and stayed here for more than a week to give training in chess to kids including Nihal. Ever since, the Ukranian coach has been giving online training and special coaching to Nihal before major tournaments.
 
 The 12-year old Nihal is a great fan of world champion  . He has been following Carlsen’s games through mobile apps and he is hoping to play against Carlsen one day. “I started playing chess without any dreams but in the last two years I have been very serious about my game. I hope to play more tournaments and take on bigger players in the future which I feel will only improve my game. Normally, I start preparing for a tournament a few days prior to the event and we will be beginning our preparation for a tournament in Sharjah next month,” said Nihal, who loves playing badminton and reading comics when he is away from chess.
 
 Chess, at a higher level, is an expensive sport and Nihal’s parents have been spending more than Rs 20 lakh a year for training and tournaments. “At the beginning we didn’t know that chess was expensive. We have been looking for a solid sponsor who can support us for a three to four-year period. With this IM feat, we hope somebody would come forward to help us,” Sarin, who is an assistant professor in Thrissur Medical College, said. 
 
 Nihal has a habit of excelling in anything he takes up and confidence, skill and dedication make him a special child. This focused little champion has all the qualities to go places and he is certainly on the right track to make all of us proud.
 
