Nashik: Memories of the death of a four-year-old child in a road accident near Seva Kunj opposite Nimani bus stand two-and-a-half years ago continue to haunt many minds till date. 

 The civic guardians had then pledged all necessary steps, such as constructing a flyover, to avert such accidents. But nothing concrete has happened till date. Even now,   opposite St Xavier’s High School on Nashik Pune road continues to be a chaos, the police’s promise of a signal continues to be still a promise and school students continue to cross the roads dodging past the vehicles speeding in from both sides — a sight that is too common across the city. 
 
 Suresh Patel of Nashik First, which operates the Children’s Traffic Park, said, “After the accident near Seva Kunj, many leaders visited the spot and said the only solution to the students’ problem would be a flyover from Nimani stand to Old Adgaon naka. Over the last two years, nothing has been done. The only change is a traffic cop and a constable are deployed on the road when the school closes for the day.” 
 
 Thousands of students come out of at least seven to eight schools located around Seva Kunj and struggle to cross the road braving heavy traffic. 
 
 Bhagwan Yashwante, whose two children study in St Xavier’s High School, said, “Visit the area when school closes. It’s a horror. Students, their parents and motorists all on the road near the school when it closes. Everyone is in a rush. Everyone wants to go first. There is no traffic signal. Some parents generally make some unsuccessful attempts to check the traffic flow. But very few cooperate.”
 
 Yashwante said, “We have been demanding a traffic signal on the road for years. For women, who take their children back home on scooters, is a difficult task riding through such a traffic chaos. There are vehicles coming from every direction. With no signal, the parents do not get time to cross the road with their children riding pillion. Every time, they have to risk their lives hoping that others would stop on seeing them crossing the road.”
 
 Police have, however, not decided whether the area would get a signal. Assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Jayant Bajbale said, “The civic body has recently approves 11 new traffic signals. We are finalising the places that need the signals most.”
 
 Some traffic department officials said the school administration can also appoint a few volunteers to streamline the vehicular flow. “Police cannot be everywhere. If the volunteers get an honorarium for streamlining the traffic for half an hour in the morning and then during the afternoon or evening, they would be more than happy to do it,” an official said.
 
 
