The great game of chess being played in UP’s assembly elections heads towards the state’s heartland Awadh in Phase 3. Ashokan relics jostle with medieval mosques and forts and colonial ruins in this vast plain farmed for millennia, watered by numerous tributaries of the Ganga and Yamuna. This history is not just in the ruins. It is refl ected in occupations — fl oral essences are still distilled in Kannauj, cotton durries and carved wooden doors crafted in Sitapur, Lucknow is known for its zardozi embroidery and leather saddles are being made in Kanpur and Unnao. Modernity too rubs shoulders with this artisanal history. Barabanki is a top mentha and opium growing centre,   is UP’s highest potato growing district with many cold storages. 

 
  
 
 The region is dominated by two metropolises. Lucknow, the state capital and Kanpur, one of India’s oldest industrial cities now in decline. Between the two, they account for over 57% of the urban population in this region, 41% of its domestic product and 60% of its business or manufacturing establishments. They together produce over 7% of UP’s domestic product, despite Kanpur’s leather industry suffering a decline. If wealth and productive capacity, and all that goes with it — urban life, hospitals and colleges, malls and cinema theatres — is so concentrated in the two cities, what’s there in the rest of the region? 
 
 
 Farming is the main occupation with very little industry except for the small sweat shops producing ittar in Kannauj and menthol in Barabanki, besides agro-processing units scattered in the region. Water from the braided rivers, canalsand also ponds and lakes in the Barabanki-Sitapur belt is plentiful. Cultivation of mainly wheat, followed by paddy, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and mangoes is ubiquitous, with some farmers even sowing fi ve crops in a year. But with 73% cultivated area operated by small and marginal farmers and a large presence of the landless, all this has not translated in to overall prosperity. 
 
 
 Health indicators collected for the annual health survey by the Census offi ce reveal a chilling state of affairs indicative of extreme poverty, even next door to the twin cities. In most districts, in particular Barabanki, Sitapur, Hardoi, Auraiya and Kannauj, undernourishment is pervasive with 35-40% of working age population affected. Anemia affects around 80% of children going up to 89% in Barabanki. In the adult population, especially women, anaemia was found in around 90% of the population. Infant mortality rates are almost a third higher than the state average of 68 child deaths for every 1000 live births while death rates of mothers due to pregnancy or child birth complications is at a staggering 311 per one lakh births in the Lucknow division comprising five districts. That the healthcare delivery system is cracked across the region is shown by the fact that 10%-20% children in districts like Farrukhabad or Hardoi are not immunised at all. Are the contestants listening to this population?
 
