SURAT: “There is shortage of quality graduates in the country which is witnessing rapid economic development. We are heading towards prolonged period of shortage of well-trained professionals to deliver in global competition. The problem is not of overall quantity, but inadequate number of graduates of required quality. The gap between growth of degree holders from our university system and the growth of employable university graduates is widening,” said  , former director of Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad here on Thursday. 

 “Unfortunately, the recent trends in higher education are not very encouraging. The numbers of universities and colleges have increased but there is no proportionate rise in professionally qualified teachers. The teacher-student ratio is deteriorating since the last three decades and it has adversely affected the overall quality of higher education in the country and particularly in Gujarat,” Dholakia said at the 48th annual convocation of Veer   (VNSGU). 
 
 “It is thus hardly surprising that no Indian university has ever figured in the list of top 200 universities of the world despite significant economic progress in the country in the past 25 years,” he said at the convocation in the presence of Gujarat governor O P Kohli and VNSGU vice-chancellor Dakshesh Thakar. 
 
 He acknowledged economic growth of Gujarat but also highlighted the fact that the state lagged behind in human development indicators. “We are still lagging behind global standard of excellence in providing physical infrastructure facilities. Gujarat should focus more on human development which has received less attention in the last three decades,” Dholakia said. 
 
 He told the gathering of around 1,000 students that Indian youths are fortunate since they are in a time when the country has maintained 7 per cent growth in GDP and 6 per cent growth in per capita income. He said the growth momentum that started with liberalization in the early 1990s may continue in the country with Modi government’s initiatives like ‘Make in India’, ‘Skill India’ and ‘Digital India’. He was also of the opinion that the 21st century belongs to India and China.
 
 
