INDORE: Despite over a fortnight of the implementation of the new tax regime, several   have not registered under   and are unaware of the   under various services, representatives of transport industry and tax experts said on Monday. 

 To address the concerns and bring clarity on the tax structure, senior officials of the state commercial tax department held a meeting with the representatives of the transport industry. 
 
 Commercial tax department deputy commissioner   said, “We informed the members about various tax structure and norms. Many of them had questions about tax on different services and GST numbers.”
 
 Gupta said that the members were also invited to visit the department office for any further clarification. 
 
 “Most of them were unaware whether they come under the purview of GST or not,” said Gupta. 
 
 Raising concerns about the complex nature of taxation, transporters said, the long term implication of the GST looks encouraging for the economy, but the initial phase is hurting business and revenue due to lack of clarity on norms. 
 
 They said repeated suggestions from the industry to the commercial tax department are not taken into consideration. 
 
 A transporter   said, “We are not able to understand GST and how to manage our business. There are so many queries but the commercial tax department is not able to provide proper response.”
 
 Explaining GST, experts said transporters will be liable for heavy penalty if found violating GST norms and carrying goods without proper bill. 
 
 Responding to the queries of transporters on penalty, experts said that they will have to pay penalty equivalent to half the price of the truck load if caught ferrying goods without proper bill and owner fails to take the responsibility. 
 
 Though, transport activity has improved in the past few weeks, still over 50 per cent capacity is lying unused due to non-availability of GST registration details and complex taxation procedure. 
 
  member Kishan Marwaha said, “There is some movement in the past weeks but still we are not taking orders of clients as we don’t have GST number.”
 
