BHUBANESWAR: With most schools closing for the summer break and hardly any respite from heat, it's time to pack your bags and get away to places with cooler climes. Thanks to online tour operators and improved and affordable air-connectivity, a large number of people from the state are planning foreign trips. The craze for lesser-known destinations within the country also seems to have caught on with avid travellers. 

 Apart from Southeast Asian countries like Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Hong Kong, countries like Cambodia, Indonesia, Vietnam and Australia have become the favourite haunts for the people of Odisha this summer. Apart from Scandinavian countries like Finland, Sweden, Norway and Denmark, Russia too is in demand this year, tour operators said.
 
 "Until a few years ago, people would throng Europe in summer. But the focus has now shifted to South Asian countries and newer destinations like Denmark, Finland, Sweden and Norway. We have booked around 30 trips to these countries this season," said Benjamin Simon, a leading tour operator. 
 
 The direct international flight from Bhubaneswar that started last month is one of the main reasons for the increased foreign trips by Odias. The airfare to Kuala Lumpur from Bhubaneswar is between Rs 7000 to Rs 10000, including the return trip. Since a visa is not required for Malaysia, people are not shying away from travelling to that country. The increased air-connectivity has created a new segment of international travellers, Simon added. 
 
 Sources in AirAsia the airline that started direct flights between Bhubaneswar and Kuala Lumpur last month said most of their flights are almost full for the next two weeks down the line. "We have got an overwhelming response. Most of our flights from Bhubaneswar are almost booked for the next few weeks. We are also a getting good response for our return flights from Bhubaneswar. A large number of Odias staying in foreign countries find the route quite convenient," said Anshuman Patodia, station manager of AirAsia in Bhubaneswar. 
 
 For in-country destinations, people want to explore those with cooler climes. "People basically want to run away from the scorching heat. But at the same time, they don't want to go Shimla, Kullu-Manali and Darjeeling any more. This year, we booked trips to Pachmarhi in  , Ranikhet in Uttarakhand, Chopta in Sikkim, Cherrapunji in Meghalaya and Lahaul and Dalhousie in Himachal Pradesh," said Partha Samal, another city-based tour operator. 
 
