HYDERABAD: Three days after protests erupted on the   (UoH) campus over an affidavit that sought to curtail students’ right to protest, the administration decided to tweak the document, toning it down substantially. 

 Students can now protest peacefully at designated spots within the campus after the administration revised the affidavit on Monday. Among other things, the old affidavit had categorically instructed students to refrain from protesting against rules and regulations enforced by the varsity. 
 
 The university's move led to fresh protests on campus with students condemning the decision and refusing to sign the affidavit at any cost. Following protests by students, the university revised the affidavit laying down fresh norms. “I understand my privileges and rights and, when necessary, participate in peaceful protests/demonstrations only in designated spaces without obstructing the normal functioning of the university and its various entities,” reads the revised affidavit. 
 
 While the old affidavit had 14 points, the revised one has only nine points. The clause regarding misusing or misrepresenting the university’s name on social media platforms has been removed. Not just this, restrictions on inviting the media without written permission of the designated university authorities has also been removed in the revised affidavit. 
 
 “While it is true that the university has incorporated submission of an affidavit as part of the admission process, it certainly does not intend to curb the right to freedom of expression nor does it aim to curb protests on campus,” said an official statement issued by the university. The statement said the affidavit was an attempt to prevent frequent disruption of academic and administrative work at the university.
 
 Another controversial aspect in the old affidavit was the footnote which stated that in case students violate any of the provisions, the university "reserves the right to take disciplinary action against me (the student) that is deemed fit extending up to cancellation of my admission”. The revised affidavit states that failure on part of the students’ to uphold any of the provisions mentioned in the affidavit “will attract disciplinary proceedings in the appropriate body of the university.” It does not speak about cancellation of admission.
 
 Students welcomed the revised affidavit as they said that it was not intimidating any longer. “We are happy that after raising objections, the university was forced to roll-back its affidavit. We are glad that this forceful implementation of rules was fought by all student organisations,” said  , president of UoH students’ union. 
 
