KOLKATA: The CID on Saturday filed the chargesheet and named 19 of the 20 persons arrested in connection with   cases that unfolded across the city, North and South 24 Parganas 75 days ago. The agency, however, has failed to find any substantial evidence against Dr  , who was arrested from Behala. He was associated with the Mohanananda Brahmachari Shishu Seva kendra.

 “The first chargesheet has been submitted before the ACJM court in Basirhat. While 19 persons have been named here, one has been discharged. We have taken 75 days to file the chargesheet but want to reiterate that investigation is still on,” said Nishat Parvez, DIG CID (operations). Sources said the main charges mentioned in the FIR have not been changed.
 
 “We will be filing a supplementary chargesheet soon. Till then, we do not wish to keep anyone above suspicion,” said a top source. The chargesheet, claimed sources, runs in to hundreds of pages and has several sources as evidences.
 
 When preparing the chargesheet, the investigators have ensured that it had all details of the modus operandi and established the specific role of each gang member. “Even if we are not arresting a few people, we will name them in the second chargesheet. We will then wait for the court’s instruction. It is important that we maintain clarity on the issue,” said a source.
 
 Explaining the modus operandi, the officer said that once a fake mother was “employed” for the job, she would be admitted to a nursing home run by the gang for a day, citing pregnancy. And on the next day, a baby – that would be “arranged” from the biological parents telling them they were stillborns — would be handed over to this woman. “Admitting the mother to the hospital would prove that the child was hers. A notarized document was also issued along with this as a proof,” said a police officer.
 
 Now that most of the main gang members have been chargesheeted, the cops will now be concentrating on the fringe players. “Just like foster parents, there are other people — nursing home nurses, staffers, ambulance drivers and even some doctors — who knowingly or unknowingly helped the gang. But then, we are dealing with them on a case-to-case basis. Too many arrests might help the big players to wriggle away,” said a senior officer at Bhawani Bhavan.
 
 
