Patna: The state assembly witnessed acrimonious scenes over a   member’s claim that disproportionate budgetary allotment had been made by the state government for the fencing of ‘kabristan’ (graveyards) and beautification of ‘shamshan’ (cremation grounds) in Bihar.

 This elicited sharp reaction from deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “After your party’s victory in Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, you want to set your agenda in Bihar, but it will not succeed,” he said and added that the BJP was trying to “communalise the situation and disrupt social harmony” in Bihar. 
 
 The issue cropped up when BJP member Sanjay Sarawagi read out his non-government resolution for adoption by the House that the government had allotted disproportionate sum of money for the fencing of graveyards and beautification of cremation grounds. He also said this practice should be ended as Rs 400 crore had been spent on the construction of the graveyards, while only around Rs 10 crore of the total allotment of Rs 25 crore had been spent on the beautification of cremation grounds so far.
 
 Energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said the state government did not make allotments for the fencing of graveyards and beautification of the cremation grounds on the basis of any partisan approach. Yet, the matter would be looked into, he said, and also appealed to Sarawagi to withdraw his private member’s resolution.
 
 However, this left Sarawagi and other BJP members unconvinced. Sarawagi, instead of withdrawing his resolution, alleged that the ruling parties had brute majority in the House, but the opposition too was not weak and would not allow the House to function. He also entered into the well of the House with other BJP members following him.
 
 This infuriated the treasury benches comprising the RJD, JD(U) and Congress, whose members were on their toes trying to shout down the BJP members, who were already in the well of the House. One of them snatched pen from an official reporter and a few others tried to upturn the table, apart from shouting slogans.
 
 Senior RJD member Illiyas Hussain, who was presiding, tried to calm down the treasury and opposition members, but failed. Similar bids of parliamentary affairs minister Shrawan Kumar also proved futile. 
 
 Hussain put the resolution of Sarawagi to voice vote in the House, whereby it was defeated after which the BJP members entered the well again. 
 
 Shrawan made repeated pleas to Hussain that action should be taken against the BJP members who had violated the rules of House business and had also made it a habit to create unruly scenes in the House during its current session. Finally, the situation calmed down after Hussain’s assurance that differences among members would be resolved in the chamber of Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Saturday. 
 
 
