We were the first to tell you that the producer and director of the UP-based film  , who’d been arrested on Thursday for 'hurting religious sentiments', had been released on bail in the evening on Friday. Tony D'Souza and Ajay K Pannalal had been arrested by the   Police and taken there on the basis of the complaint of a Jalandhar resident 'offended' by a poster of the film, which showed   dressed as Shiva and seated on a bike. A relieved  , a Lucknowite and one of the three producers of the film, finally spoke at length after his colleagues’ release and told LT how he thinks they're being made a target by publicity seekers.
Talking about the whole controversy, Nitin said, "We released a teaser poster with Gattu (Rajkummar's character) dressed as Shivji during Navratri to pay homage to the festival and the celebrations that take place in north India. We never had the slightest idea that it will hurt anyone's sentiment because people work in jagran mandalis, dress up and commute to places of performance. It was not a publicity stunt from our side. Then, when we came to know that there are people getting offended, we as good human beings, who care about people's feeling, removed the poster. It was released digitally, not in the print media or in cinema halls. In the subsequent posters, trailer or songs we never showed anything related to Shivji or that might offend people. The intention previously was to make our film a part of Navratri celebration but it didn't go down well with a few people so we changed our strategy because we care. But naturally everyone has agendas these days and so we were made easy targets by someone looking for quick mileage," says Nitin, adding, "But I was personally hurt (by the controversy) - I am a devout Hindu; my mother prays twice a day. Shivji and Hanumanji are my favourites, how can I do anything demeaning to them in my film? Shivji is everyone's, just like he is mine. It's a dedication to all natak mandalis of UP."
 Nitin goes on to say that their intention was never to show disrespect to the gods nor hurt anyone's sentiments. "We never wanted to hurt any sentiments. We withdrew the poster immediately but internet being the beast it is, some posters are still there. Let's see. I am an honest Hindu and a responsible filmmaker. Our film has been cleared by the Censor Board. It doesn’t have anything hurtful against anyone. But I guess it’s the real meaning of democracy: Everyone has the right to speak their mind and we as Indians respect that but the ordeal and stress Tony and Ajay went through was uncalled for and hurtful. We hope everything is sorted out soon and things return to normal." 
 He goes on to say, "We respect the law, but this case is motivated by wrong reasons. We feel we are being targeted as we are small and new producers and the release is nearing. We still followed the protocol and went to Jalandhar as we believe in the law of the country and know nothing wrong will happen. The last two days were full of mental torture as this was an additional stress when there is so much to do on the post production and distribution front."
 
  
  Producer Tony D’Souza and director Ajay K Pannalal with their counsel,   Dyal, outside the court in Jalandhar (BCCL)
 
 Meanwhile, the director Ajay K Pannalal and producer Tony D’Souza were granted bail on Friday. The date set for the next hearing is June 12. Darshan Singh Dyal, their counsel, later spoke to us and said, "The FIR mentions three sections — 295A and 120B of the IPC and 67 of the IT Act. Our main contention was that since prior sanction from the state or central government is needed to initiate proceedings under section 295A, the police or complainant have not met the laid out procedure (sic). Also, section 67 of the IT Act deals with obscenity. We told the court that a photo of a deity cannot be put in this category when the section mentions obscenity." According to Dyal, the duo had already left for Mumbai on Friday evening. They will now move an application to quash the FIR. 
 
 With inputs by Ankur Batra
 
