NEW DELHI: Six months after the death of the formidable Alexander  ,   has finally moved to appoint a new ambassador to India. Top MEA sources confirmed that Moscow has proposed the name of senior diplomat   as the next ambassador to India.

 The development has come as a relief to Indian authorities who were concerned about the delay in the appointment of the new ambassador. Like Kadakin, Kudashev too is an old hand at India affairs and had earlier, from 2002 to 2005, served as minister (counsellor) with the Russian embassy here. 
 
 Even before that, he had worked as counsellor and senior counsellor with the Russian embassy for several years. Kudashev, who is fluent in Mandarin, has also served as Russia's ambassador to the Philippines.
 
 Moscow's decision to appoint the new ambassador follows the successful Modi-Putin summit last month during which the 2 countries signed an agreement for 2 additional nuclear reactors at Kudankulam. For Russia, which had pressed India to sign the agreement for 8 months, this was the biggest takeaway from the St Petersburg summit.
 
 Kudashev will have an unenviable job as Moscow's man in India not just because of his celebrated predecessor Kadakin, whose entire diplomatic career was devoted to promoting ties with India, but also because he'll land here amid a widespread perception that Russia's strategic partnership with India has not just lost its sheen but is also turning inffectual.
 
 Despite its considerable influence with China, according to Indian authorities, Moscow has not been of much use to India in addressing the latter's inability to convince Beijing to see merit in the Modi gvernment's concerns over key issues related to India's security and also its bid to become a member of the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG). The possibility of a Russian strategic embrace of Pakistan, as evident also from its willingness to engage with the Taliban in Afghanistan, has further fuelled the perception that Russia and India are drifting apart. 
 
 India, however, is still hoping that Russia will manage to convince China to change its? position on India's applicatin for NSG mmbership. As foreign minister   said in her annual press conference last month, India has asked Moscow to convince Beijing since "Russia has good relations with China". 
 
 This is significant also because the government realises the US under President Trump may not work as proactively for India's membership as it did under his predecessor. Interestingly though, official sources said, India has not yet briefed the Russians? about its military standoff with China near the trijunction with Bhutan. 
 
 As minister (counsellor) with the Russian embassy here in 2005, Kudashev had, while speaking on China-Russia-India cooperation, said that the "compatibility of the three nations' strategic priorities paved the way for their effective partnership on the international scene, promoting the establishment of true multi-polarity in the modern world". He also spoke about Russia's "special attitude" for India saying that Moscow wanted India to become a permanent member of the UNSC with full veto power.
 
 
