MADURAI: Preliminary investigation into the death of  , 14, who collapsed after the first round of boxing at the   on Friday, has revealed that she had a clot on the right side of her head, which may have been caused due to the use of inferior quality head gear.

 Mareeswari, who had fainted after the first round of boxing, was rushed to a private hospital and later to the government hospital, where she was declared as brought-dead by the doctors.
 
 The second of four siblings, she had always been interested in sports. Encouraged by her enthusiasm, her relative Subburaj decided to coach her. The investigation officer of the case, inspector Joseph Jetson, confirmed that Subburaj was a qualified coach. She had also been wearing head gear during participation. "The doctors who examined her said they found a clot on the right side of her head. Her viscera has been sent for lab tests and a postmortem report is expected in the next couple of days," he said.
 
 Khelo India is a Central Government sponsored program aimed at identifying young talent in rural areas. It is executed through the  . There was no ambulance at the venue and the girl had to be rushed to the hospital in an auto rickshaw. Police had arrived at the spot only after the girl had died.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Dr G Leonard Ponraj, professor of anthroscopy and sports medicine, Tamil Nadu Multi Super Speciality Hospital, Chennai, said that the girl may have died due to extra dural hematoma, caused by a blow to the head. "But the child could also have had some congenital disorder which made her unfit for boxing," he said.
 
 Dr Ponraj said that tapping rural sports talent was an excellent idea, but it was essential that children identified and trained for events and underwent a complete medical evaluation to ascertain their fitness for a particular game. "This test is similar to a master health check-up done for adults. It costs a few thousand rupees. But in my hospital we can do it free of cost," he said. Only such tests can identify congenital disorders which could be fatal if ignored.
 
 The Khelo India Games will continue in Madurai on Monday. The first round was held on Sunday. District Sports Officer, S Murugan, said that all necessary arrangements including medical facilities were in place. Ten events including boxing are to be held on Monday, where participants will bring their own protective gear. Each institute's sports department will recommend the list of participants for each event, he added.
 
