AHMEDABAD: With the countdown to the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit (VGGS) begun, on Tuesday morning, Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS (home), reviewed security arrangements at various venues, along with senior state police officials.

 Jadeja told media that 6,000 delegate registrations were confirmed as on Monday, out of which 2,000 are from 75 countries. 
 
 The event, from January 10 to 13 will primarily take place at   in Gandhinagar.
 
  “There would be a total of 3,825 police personnel in charge of venue security,” said Jadeja.
 
 “They will be supervised by one ADGP, five IGP/DIGP, 16 SP and 66 DSP-level officers. The state police will coordinate with two National Security Guards (NSG) teams,” Jadeja said, adding, “There would be one Chetak Commando team along with   (SRP),   (BDDS) and   (QRT) deployed at the spot.”
 
 “CCTV cameras have been installed inside and outside the venue,” Jadeja said.
 
 The minister said that for the first time entry will be allowed based on badges with QR (quick response) codes. “A system has been developed to allot the codes to each badge for identification,” Jadeja said.
 
 “No person will be allowed without passes with QR codes. A mobile application has been developed specifically for the event that would guide delegates with easy navigation,” he said.
 
 Organizers added that they expect around 15,000 vehicles at the event. Thus, 11 parking lots have been designated across the state capital, where participants will have to park according to the colour code of their passes. 
 
 Eighty buses will be used to ferry foreign delegates from Ahmedabad-based hotels to Mahatma Mandir. 
 
 The system, which would primarily cater to 1,200 delegates, will help ease traffic congestion, they added.
 
 Three control rooms to oversee summit
 
 Senior state police officials said that there would be three control rooms in Gandhinagar - one with the district control room to oversee the overall security, one at Mahatma Mandir to keep an eye on the venue security, and one where senior police officials will conduct meetings with NSG and other agencies for coordination. The NSG team is expected to arrive early on Wednesday.
 
 “The route from airport to Mahatma Mandir has been identified as high-security zone for VVIPs and thus appropriate security arrangements have been made. The cameras installed in state capital would be constantly monitored as general traffic would be halted for a while. Entry will be allowed only after personal and baggage checking by scanners,” said an official. 
 
 Senior officials also visited GIFT City and helipad apart from Mahatma Mandir for security review.
 
 Tight security for Nov 9
 
 Ahmedabad police would deploy 1,300 personnel in and around Science City on December 9 when PM   will be inaugurating the Nobel Prize Series Exhibition. A senior city police official said that there would be three-tier security layer in and around the venue for the day as the access to the venue would be restricted beforehand.
 
 “All city hotels where VGGS delegates would be staying will also be treated as high security zones and personnel would be deployed in and outside the hotels,” said an official, adding that police personnel would accompany the buses and vehicles ferrying delegates.
 
