MUMBAI: A   leading up to a sprawling chawl at Kazipura in   is chocka-block as   Amin Patel and   from ward 213 (Nagpada-Kamathipura), Javed Juneja, walk through with sloganchanting supporters in tow.

 “See these bridges which have narrowed the distance to these common toilets,“ says a middle-aged Zubeida Bi. “These bridges and the toilets are courtesy Aminbhai [Amin Patel]. “Our votes will be for his candidate.“
 
 It is these “blessings“ that Juneja, shifted from ward 223 (Musafirkhana), can bank on but only to an extent. He cannot afford to be over-confident to win this seat just because the voters backed Congress candidates in 2007 and 2012.The battle for the Nagpada-Kamathipura belt, the heart of Muslim votes in south Mumbai, is as interesting as it is intense.
 
 During delimitation, onethird of ward 208 from where Congress's Manoj Jamsutkar was elected was merged with ward 209 from where Congress's Shahana Rizwan Khan had been voted. Now, ward 209 has been labelled as ward 213.Consequently , the ward's Muslim votes have increased to nearly 60% and a division of Mus lims votes among multiple Muslim candidates--Javed Juneja (Congress), Wasim Syed (Samajwadi Party) and Moin Rayeen (MIM)--may help Shiv Sena's Sunil Kadam.
 
 However, Patel confidently said: “Don't underestimate the intelligence of voters. They will not waste their votes on spoilers like MIM or SP . Instead, they will back a secular candidate from our party .“
 
 Yet the threat to “uproot“ the Congress from this Muslim-majority belt with pockets like Teli mohalla and Temkar mohalla looms large. One such threat, Nizamuddin Rayeen, MIM candidate Moin's father and former Congress leader, seethes with anger. Rayeen lambasted his former party: “Victory and loss is in Allah's hands, but I have vowed to help make Mumbai Congress mukt. Decimation of Congress is now my life-long mission.“
 
 A few walks away , Shahana Khan's husband Rizwan, and former Sena shakha pramukh and party candidate Sunil Kadam, sharpen more weapons.After being denied a Congress ticket, Khan joined the Sena on Friday to “avenge injustice“ done to him.
 
 “I am in Sena not to get any power, but to block Congress from tasting power again here,“ said Khan. Sena too faces a challenge from other nonMuslim candidates--Vinay Tripathi (BJP), Raje Sahu (NCP), Vinod Argile (MNS) and Rai Pelle (Congress rebel and now an independent).
 
 The general sentiment of voters here was that Congress wants a miracle to prevent division of Muslim votes while Sena awaitsits split.
 
 
