JAIPUR: The police in   on a campaign against   were surprised on Sunday evening when they intercepted a   near the  . After the driver of vehicle was quizzed it was found that vehicle was stolen from Chatursang police station area of Pune in Maharastra six months ago. Police have arrested the 21-year-old youth who possessed the vehicle and will also bring his brother, currently in prison at at Jodhpur jail on charges of smuggling narcotics, to find out the nexus of vehicle lifters. 

 Superintendent of police, Pali Deepak Bhargav had ask his men to be vigilant on the activities of the luxury vehicles moving in the district and various teams and check posts were started in the area. 
 
 "We got a tip off that a man aged around 21 year would be passing through Jawai Dam area with a Mercedes vehicle. It was also been informed that the person's economic status is not as high that he can afford this kind of luxury vehicle. After our team spotted the vehicle it was stopped and the driver identified as Raju Ram was questioned and was asked to show registration and insurance papers of the vehicle," said Ataurehman, additional SP, Pali told TOI over phone on Monday. 
 
 Soon it was confirmed that the vehicle was stolen from Chatursang police station of Pune. "In primary interrogation it was found that it is a 2014 model and was stolen six months ago from Pune. It was given to Raju Ram by his brother Bishna Ram (30) his elder brother who is a smuggler of opium and poppy husk. Raju was asked by his brother to sell off the vehicler. While he was looking for a suitable buyer our team arrested him," Ataurehman added. 
 
 Police will now apply for the production warrant of accused Bishna Ram. "Both the brothers would be cross examined to find out if they have stolen the vehicle from Pune or they have purchased this stolen vehicle from another buyer. We have also intimated Chatursang police station in Pune so that they can also interrogate them. It was also found that a few persons were also arrested by them in connection to the theft of the vehicle from there," he added. 
 
 Senior police officers said that in previous seizures of narcotics and arrest of the accused it was found that luxury vehicles stolen from other states are being used in Pali and nearby districts for narcotics smuggling. 
 
 
