BHUBANESWAR: To help the inmates of   beat the scorching heat, the authorities are providing   in the enclosures. The animals are not only provided   but are also given  . 

 Zoo sources said around 400 kg of ice is thrown into the artificial water bodies where the animals - both herbivores and carnivores - take a dip to get relief from the heat. "The quantity of ice varies every day considering the weather conditions and animal behaviour," said deputy director of the zoo Jayant Das. 
 
 Out of around 200 enclosures for the 3,000 animals, almost 50% of them have special summer measures. Besides, ice boxes, the zoo authorities have installed water sprinklers at the aviaries and other enclosures such as that of the chimpanzee and orangutan. "The roofs of the enclosure have been covered with thatched sheets to provide insulation. We have installed water coolers also at the chimpanzee enclosure as they are required to keep their body temperature low. Besides, coolers have been provided at the quarantine, where the inmates are treated for different ailments," said a zoo officer. 
 
 Both the animals and visitor rest sheds have been made summer-proof by covering the thatched sheet on the roof. The reptile enclosure, especially that of snakes, have been provided with fans so that air flow continues and required ventilation is maintained. 
 
 Besides bamboo mats and straw thatching, the bird enclosures have water trickling all the time as the avian species need to keep themselves wet in summer. Bears are being provided solid ice to lick. 
 
 Veterinary doctors monitor the animals health condition on a daily basis. "As part of summer food, we provide water melon and sugarcane juice mostly to herbivores. Food supplements, which have medicinal values, are also being served apart from keeping ready the medical aids. Coconut juice for the chimpanzee is being served," said a zoo officer.
 
 Besides, we have also kept a vehicle ready to ferry animals in case of emergency, the officer added. 
 
 
