Pregnancies and Bollywood make for an explosive combination. The curiosity, buzzing rumour mills, the baby bump pictures, the announcements — whether or not a Bollywood celeb is pregnant can even take over who won the American election, in terms of public curiosity, any day. Actress Lisa Haydon’s sudden nuptials with long-time boyfriend, businessman Dino Lalvani, was the perfect fodder for rumours to start flowing. However, Lisa went the elegant way, instead of denying matters or skirting the issue. With a charming and picturesque post on her Instagram yesterday, where she can be seen in a bikini, flaunting a tiny baby bump, she announced her ‘humble beginnings’. While it’s a common trend in Hollywood to announce pregnancies through social media, for most Bollywood celebrities, it’s not so straightforward. Whether it’s the superstition of jinxing it, or the fear of being hounded, celebrities prefer announcing their pregnancies only after it becomes impossible to hide. We bring you some examples...

  
  
 
 
 
 
 They had been fielding the question for months. They skirted around it, joked about it and sometimes, even brazenly denied it. The rumours reached a fever pitch when the nawab and his begum took off on a babymoon to the UK while Kareena was in her second trimester. The rumours were also strengthened when at a UNICEF event in June, Kareena was spotted with her hand constantly placed on her tummy. She was also visibly uncomfortable while bending forward. But, after months of denial, Saif finally released a statement in July, saying, “My wife and I would like to announce that we are expecting our first child in December. We would like to thank our well-wishers for their blessings and support and also the press for their discretion and patience.” Interestingly, only a month earlier, Kareena had categorically denied the rumours in an interview. However, once the news was confirmed, there she was, all over our Bollywood-addicted psyche, flaunting her baby bump like a queen. Baby Taimur was born in December 2016. 
  
  
 
 
 
 It was only in the third week of April 2016, that Shahid confirmed rumours of his wife’s pregnancy. The rumours had started when Mira walked the ramp at a fashion week in the first week of April.   Gupta’s tweet further fuelled the assumptions. She tweeted a picture with Mira and captioned it, “two M’s and a Bum #sayheytobey — little M (sic).” Then, during the promotions of Udta Punjab, in reply to a scribe’s question, Shahid shot back, “Haan main baap banne wala hoon.” The next months, there were regular cutesy posts from Sasha. Baby Misha arrived on August 26.
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Genelia was secretive about both her pregnancies. The second time around, it wasn’t until her baby bump started showing that the two decided to give the pregnancy rumours any credibility. The duo, along with Farah Khan, were shot outside a Mumbai restaurant in December 2015, where the actress was first spotted with a bump. She seemed uncomfortable being photographed and tried hiding behind her doting hubby. However, the couple finally announced the pregnancy with a photo shoot.   was born on June 1, 2016.
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Rani almost went underground during her pregnancy. When Bollywood scion Aditya Chopra and Rani took off for a baby moon during her second trimester, a fan supposedly spotted her getting a pre-natal massage in a London spa. The confirmation of the rumours in September 2015, came from Rani’s sis-in-law Jyoti, who even said that the baby was due in January 2016. 
  
  
 
 
 
 Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s pregnancy broke the Indian internet much before breaking the internet was in vogue. On June 21, 2011, father-in-law Amitabh Bachchan announced the news through a tweet: “NEWS NEWS NEWS !! I AM GOING TO BECOME A GRANDFATHER .. AISHWARYA EXPECTING .. SO HAPPY AND THRILLED!!!” (sic). However, it was pretty evident from the flowing gowns and pleated dresses that the actress had been sporting for some time before the official announcement. It was all but out in the open when she attended the 162nd Prix de Diane Longines horse race, on June 12, 2011 in Chantilly, France. In her Ellie Saab gown, there was no way one could miss the bump. She gave birth to   on November 16, 2011.
  
  
 
 
