KOLKATA:   are embroiled in the middle of a controversy allegedly involving their photographs being taken inside the  . The uproar first broke out over acclaimed photographer Souvid Datta’s picture of a 16-year-old girl being ‘raped’ by her client in a Sonagachhi brothel. Kolkata-based social workers and women’s rights activists react with horror to what they describe as a “damning example of exploitation of girls who are perpetually abused”.

 Tinku Khanna, the director of Apne Aap, admits to have got requests from photographs to take pictures of girls when they are with their clients. But after talking to them, she has conveyed to the photographers that they weren’t willing to be photographed this way.
 
 However, Durbar Mahila Samanwaya secretary Committee Kajal Bose said such photography is unheard of in Sonagachhi. “Even adults who have willingly joined the profession don’t allow any kind of photography in Sonagachhi. I have never heard of any minor giving this kind of a consent,” Bose said.
 
 Srabani Sarkar, founder secretary and director of anti-trafficking organization Humari Muskan, has never received such a request. “We will never allow something like this. Exploitation is too harmless a word to describe what is done to photograph a minor this way,” Sarkar said.
 
 Both Bose and Sarkar insist there is no chance of any sex worker giving consent to such photography without them knowing about it. Khanna, however, pointed out that abject poverty make these girls vulnerable. “Some photographers might take advantage of that,” Khanna said.
 
 While condemning Datta who “betrayed all ethical conduct and stooped this low to gain publicity and international recognition”, Khanna insisted that this controversy has also opened up the issue of under-age trafficking in Bengal. “I feel his issue ought to be seen in a larger context of the menace of underage trafficking. It is a big reality in the brothels of Bengal. This controversy has brought this issue in front of everyone. After this incident, people must ask how under-aged girls are still trafficked to Sonagachhi despite the self-regulatory board of Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee making tall claims of doing away with under-aged trafficking there. This is a bigger human rights violation than what the photographer has done,” Khanna said.
 
 Bose strongly contradicts Khanna’s argument saying that no minor girls are allowed to work in Sonagachhi. “Since 2001, we have been working here. From here, we have sent back 840 minor girls home. Even 221 adults were sent back home since they didn’t want to be in this profession.”
 
 Sarkar, however, agreed with Khanna saying: “Under-age trafficking is a reality in Bengal.”
 
 
