It was another instance of Doon’s  , and this time, at least, the school kids of the city, were quite happy about it.   has been witnessing   since the past few days and as rain lashed the state on Wednesday,  , SA Murugesan, issued a notice, which stated that schools will be closed on Thursday. But much to the delight of school kids, Thursday dawned bright and sunny, with children taking to the streets to play a game of cricket or simply hang out with friends. 

  Shiv, a class 11 student from Rajpur, shares, "I played cricket on the streets on Thursday! There was no rain and I had a great time playing with my friends." The funny thing, as students point out, the weather of Doon is so unpredictable that it often happens that when a rainy day is declared in the city and schools are close, the day turns out to be perfectly bright and sunny. "The same thing happened last year and this has become a practical joke among us, school-goers. We keep saying that the day it is announced that school will remain closed due to rains, that very day it will be all sunny. But we don’t mind! The unpredictable weather of Doon means that we get some extra off days when we can just enjoy ourselves!," Shiv adds. 
 
  
  School kids in Doon played cricket and chilled out with their friends on their off day (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
 
 ‘OUR SUMMER HOLIDAYS JUST GOT OVER AND THIS EXTRA OFF DAY HAS MADE US SO HAPPY!’
 
  Ishika Rawat, a class 10 student from Nehru Colony, says, "The day it rains heavily, all of us start praying ki aagle din holiday declare ho jayein. Our summer holiday has just gotten over and nobody is in the mood to go back to school and study. These extra   offs are like a bonus to me. Thankfully, it didn’t rain on Thursday and I enjoyed my break to the fullest. This is best part about monsoon season in Doon, time and again you get an extra chutti that makes you all happy."
  
  Yash, another class 10 student, says, "Abhi toh monsoon shuru hi hua hai, ab to aise orders aate rahenge. It is so much fun when in the evening, after you are all done with your home-work, you suddenly hear the news that school will be closed the next day. With your studies done, it means you have a day just to have fun! And parents don’t mind too." 
 
  
  School kids in Doon played cricket and chilled out with their friends on their off day (Taresh Dutta/ BCCL)
 
  ‘I WISH OFFICES ALSO HAD CHUTTI RAINY DAYS!
 
  Sumit from Prem Nagar, who works for an IT firm, says, “Even when I was in school, we would get chutti on rainy days. And very often, on the day of chutti, it used to be all sunny and we would have a fun-filled time with friends. But now that I am working, there’s no such privilege! Abhi toh agar jaane ka mann nahi hua, toh boss ko kya excuse dena hai wohi sochte rehte hai!"
 
  – 
 
 
 
