GURUGRAM: It’s a logo that’s instantly identifiable, the leaping big cat of sports and leisure wear brand   (‘puma’ is the nomenclature for this cat, known to inhabit the mountains of South and North America). And Puma’s as iconic as any in the universe of brands.

 Now,   has chosen to partner with the DDB   for the brand’s creative mandate in India. Under this partnership, the agency will be responsible for the creative strategy and execution of Puma’s marketing communication in India. 
 
 Puma has been designing, developing, selling and marketing footwear, apparel and accessories for over 65 years. It is the fastest growing sports lifestyle brand in India, one of more than 120 countries in which the German MNC distributes its products. Earlier this year, Puma brought on board Virat Kohli as brand ambassador, a cricketer who transcends his sport as much as Puma transcends sport. 
 
 Ranji Cherian, president and managing partner, DDB Mudra South, and Vishnu Srivatsav, creative head, DDB Mudra South, will be leading the partnership from the agency’s side. “We intend to bring Puma’s unique voice to life in the sports and lifestyle category,” said Cherian.
 
 “It’s a prestigious account win for us, and a great canvas for our own capabilities and creativity. We’re relishing the challenge and the opportunity to be Puma’s partner in embedding itself in India’s consideration and culture,” he added.
 
 Sharing his thoughts on the partnership,   – managing director, Puma   – said, “We firmly believe in new-age media and have constantly striven to create our own differentiated patterns and modules, to engage with our consumers. I am confident that our partnership with DDB will help us create more resonance with our customers and bring forward the true spirit of our brand.”
 
 The partnership with DDB Mudra, then, can be seen as another step towards Puma’s long-term mission of becoming the most desirable sports lifestyle company, as it seeks to live up to its catchphrase of ‘Forever Faster’.
 
 
