NEW DELHI: This is possibly the craziest stunt ever performed on a remote airstrip in India that has sent the aviation safety regulator in a tizzy. A group of nine models stood on a airstrip - just for kicks - and a nine-seater turboprop took off right behind them. The models ducked for cover when the private plane got airborne. 

 This crazy violation of all safety rules was captured on an MMS. A senior   (DGCA) official said the regulator received the video on Thursday night and is probing it. Details of this recent video, as to the exact location and time will emerge once the DGCA conducts the investigation.
 
 The MMS shows excited Indian models standing on the airstrip, possibly in Rajasthan, when a turboprop ( ) takes off from right behind them. When the aircraft - a   Grand Caravan C208 B - gets airborne, some of the models duck due to the roar of the single-engine plane or maybe fear kicking in! This entire act was being professionally shot for the models and the video shows one of the models posing in front of Jaipur's Hawa Mahal in a separate shot.
 
 The MMS shows an ecstatic model saying, "We landed at a private airstrip where there was a private plane that was waiting for us." Another model says, "I think this tops the list of craziest things I have ever done." 
 
 The video shows the models boarding this plane and flying in it. It was not clear if they got off this plane and then it took off with them standing on the airstrip. Or if they boarded the plane after this stunt-for-thrill take off was performed.
 
 According to DGCA website, VT-SAI belongs to a Mumbai-based company which could not be reached for comment on Thursday night when TOI accessed the video. The Cessna 208 Caravan is a single-engine aircraft with a seating capacity of up to 14 made by the American manufacturer Cessna Aircraft Company. It is not a small plane with which such liberties should have been taken, say people in aviation industry.
 
 "There is always a chance that the pilot decides to abort take off at the last minute for some reason and then these people would not have had a chance to get off the runway," said a senior pilot.
 
 
