NAGPUR: Australia have a history of producing quality wicketkeeper-batsmen. From   to  , Australia have been blessed with world-class stumpers. In fact, they have produced the best wicketkeeper-batsman -   - in the history of the game.  , though, doesn't fall in the same category, at least for now.

 This series hasn't gone the way Wade would have liked. The southpaw is yet to reach double figures in this series.  , in fact, was preferred over Wade in Indore. It was an indication that the Australians are now looking for options.
 
 Wade knows he needs to score runs to get picked. "I probably have not scored enough runs. My performance has been summed up by me getting dropped in the last (Indore) game. So, there is no point sitting up here and thinking about what has already happened. My form with the bat has not been good enough. The selectors have told me that I need to score runs if I need to be picked," Wade said, providing an honest assessment of his efforts.
 
 Wade said he feels he has been batting well and runs are just around the corner. "A lot has been made about me failing in Bangladesh and a couple of times here. However, before I played in India, I was batting really well. I would have liked to score more runs in this series but that has not happened. If I go back to the way I was batting in India during the Test series, I played quite well. It is not panic stations yet and I know what I have to do.
 
 "I batted really well in India not so long ago so and I played really well in Sri Lanka. I have always felt I have done well in these conditions and done even better than some other places," he said.
 
 Wade stated that Australia would like to finish the series with a victory. "We need to play well in the ODI format, so the final match is important to us. There has been plenty of talk about our record away from home, so it was nice to get that monkey off the back with a win in the last match that can hopefully help us get some momentum going forward.
 
 "This is a new team and it will be nice to get some wins under our belt and get some continuity. It will be nice to play five or six matches with a similar looking team. Our players have not performed well enough, myself included. It will be nice to finish here with a win and then head into the Australian summer," said Wade.
 
