MUZAFFARNAGAR: Samajwadi Party chief and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday spared the BSP and targeted BJP or its ‘communal agenda and the exodus controversy it raked up in nearby Kairana’. Attacking the BJP for focussing on the exodus issue in its manifesto, Akhilesh said: “They talk about forming a ‘palaayan sena’ in their manifesto but are involved in exodus themselves. Their party leaders made exodus from Gujarat to UP and from UP to Delhi," he said in an obvious reference to prime minister Narendra Modi and accused the BJP of raking up non-issues to divert public attention from its own failures. 

 He said people keep moving from one district to another on a constant basis. “Even in Lucknow, so many people come from outside and settle. There could be any reason from better life to good jobs. It is a universal phenomenon and this party just makes sensation out of that. There was no such issue of exodus in  ,” Akhilesh said, addressing a public meeting at Khatauli.
 
 BJP MP Hukum Singh, had alleged last year that Kairana had become a “new Kashmir”, with the exodus of 250 Hindu families. The Kairana MP had alleged that the exodus took place due to “Muslim criminals”. Yadav also attacked the BJP over recent demonetisation move.
 
 “It is the fourth budget of the BJP since it came to the power. We are still waiting for the so called ‘acche din’. I am still wondering where the black money has gone. The entire country was made to stand in queues, their hard-earned money was taken away. Yet, the government has no answer where the black money is,” Yadav said in Khatauli.
 
 This was Akhilesh Yadav's third visit to the communally sensitive district which witnessed large-scale Hindu-Muslim riots in 2013 in which over 60 people were killed. Referring to the riots, Akhilesh said he felt ‘very sad’ for the loss of lives in the violence. “There were allegations that our government did nothing. But it was only the SP government that helped the people who were hit by the violence,” he said. 
 
 
