HYDERABAD: Unclean white coats worn by doctors and other staff in hospitals are emerging as the biggest sources of infections. What’s even more worrying is that the bacteria and fungus present in these coats have   to  .

 A study, published in the recent issue of the   in Medical Sciences, says that 94% of white coats used in hospitals are contaminated by dangerous bacteria and fungus like Aspergillus, which lead to nosocomial (hospital-acquired) infections. Even pens and sthethoscopes used by doctors can harbour disease-causing micro-organisms. 
 
 Despite this, there are instances when white coats are not washed for more than two weeks, the research study revealed. Only a minuscule percentage of health professionals wash it daily. Ironically, about 20% of doctors, nurses and medical students are not even aware that aprons contain harmful bacteria and fungus, some of which can survive on clothes for more than a month. “As white coats harbour micro-organisms, they may transmit infections to patients.
 
 They may also cause nosocomial infections in people with low immunity levels. Therefore, measures need to be taken to decrease the risk of transmission by frequent cleaning of hands and washing of white coats with disinfectants,” said researchers R Saraswati Jayanthi and F Noor of Malla Reddy Medical College for Women.
 
 They warned that some of the bacteria may be antibiotic-resistant, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). “This may result in increased mortality,” the researchers said.
 
 Though a majority of the bacteria isolated from coats belong to the group of ‘harmless’ micro-organisms called Diptheroids, there have been several instances in which they caused severe health issues, including mortality, in different parts of the world.
 
 Explaining the dangers of contaminated white coats, the researchers said that many doctors and nurses do not remove aprons after coming out of hospitals. Many prefer to wear them even while commuting from work to home. This exposes even the people who come in contact with them outside to infections. 
 
 As part of the research, the team analysed about 200 samples collected from departments, including medical, surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology, dermatology, paediatrics, ophthalmology and dentistry. About 70 doctors were included in the study.
 
 
