BHOPAL: The   since its launch in February this year has received around 27,000 calls from students in just three months, according to figures compiled by the   ( ).

 The helpline, which operates from 8 in the morning to midnight received 26,600 distress calls from February 1 to May 8, 2017.
 
 Interestingly, the number has almost doubled as compared to last year when the helpline got 35,400 calls in six months during the 2016 exams when it was started between January to August, 2016.
 
 The board exam helpline provides counselling to those in extreme "academic distress" due to parental or societal pressure to achieve unrealistic goals.
 
 According to  , a counsellor, the distress calls start coming in as soon as the dates of the board exams are announced. Tiwari who has been counselling students for the past ten years through the same helpline added that the number of calls shoot up during as the day of the results approach.
 
 With the MP Board results on their way, the students have called to share their apprehensions about the result and to figure out ways to cope up with peer pressure.
 
 There are many who also raised common but serious academic issues like lethargy, feeling sleepy in class, not being able to follow the teacher’s lecture, boredom, taking help of short cuts to pass without hard work among others.
 
 One problem that students mostly called to seek help for was “issue with revising, forgetting everything even after studying for hours.”
 
 “All the students are listened to carefully and then we begin their counselling by experts. Everyone works in shifts with a team of four people in each shift. Right now we are flooded with anxiety calls related to the results,” Tiwari told TOI.
 
 “We received a call in which the student’s parents told them that ‘if you do not pass, I will make you a salesman at my shop’ there was another parents who told her daughter that if she does not get at least 90 percent she can ‘forget going to a good college’,” Tiwari added.
 
 The stress among students is mostly due to teachers and parents. “Teachers want good results for their image makeover and parents want their children be toppers like their peers. Comparing a child with his friends or cousin who is good at studies is wrong. There is a need to understand that in such an environment the child cannot perform. Teachers also have to know that they cannot pressure students just for the heck of getting 100 percent results,” said V Pallavi, a counsellor at the helpline.
 
 According to the National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) data, more than 4,700 students committed suicide in the last 10 years across Madhya Pradesh from 2005 to 2014. The state has seen a constant rise in the numbers from 199 in the year 2005 to 645 in the year 2014. In the year 2015, 625 students committed suicide. During, it was revealed that 160 students have committed suicide due to various reasons in 2016.
 
