NASHIK: Hundreds of polling booths have been set up and requisite number of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and other material has been dispatched for the smooth conduct of the civic polls on Tuesday. 

 On Monday evening, officers on poll duty fixed the last-minute hiccups while chief election observer Deepak Kapoor visited the sensitive, hyper sensitive and critical polling booths and counting stations along with municipal commissioner Abhishek Krishna. 
 
 “All the material has been distributed to the polling officers by the returning officers. We are all geared for the polling day,” said additional municipal commissioner Anil Chavan, adding “Visually-impaired people will have Braille facility and our polling officers will guide them.” 
 
 In the meantime, the code of conduct department has received 37 complaints till date. “Only four complaints are to be addressed. Rest all have been addressed. Only one case was filed. We had also received a complaint regarding renaming of Asarambapu Bridge. But that does not seem to be a cognizable offence,” said chief of CoC cell Sarita Narke. 
 
 She said there were a number of complaints regarding money distribution but in most cases there was nothing concrete to help them to take action. “In prabhag 6 at Makhmalabad and in prabhag 20 at  , there were complaints of distributing money. We are looking at the issue. Wherever our squads go, they put a stop to any untoward activity. We will get the consolidated report later from the ROs. But the quality of maximum complaints is so poor that it is difficult for us to take action. We received five complaints on our citizen on patrol (COP) app,” said Narke.
 
 About the alleged COC violation that   was using its vehicles for campaigning she said the   footage could not be seen in entirety. “There were complaints about three NMC employees indulging in campaigning. The footage related to one is not very clear so we have disposed it. We are checking on the other two. If they are campaigning or working elsewhere, action can be taken against them as they are NMC employees,” Narke said.
 
 She appealed to people to get in touch on 7768002424 on phone with audio, video and photographs if they have any complaints. Around 8212 flags, banners and posters were also brought down by the department.
 
