MUMBAI: Syed  , the man who holds the key to the investigation into   of January 28 in which four people died, claimed on Thursday he was paid Rs 7,000 (in three Rs 2,000 and two Rs 500 notes) for a false deposition in court.

 He also said he was led to believe the court appearance was a formality in a car insurance case and was “tutored“ about what to say before the judge by three people -an income tax officer, a cop and an insurance agent. The tutoring happened over two sessions on the night of January 30 and the next morning in a room booked for him at   in Indirapuram (the room, he says was airconditioned and he was served non-veg food and drinks).
 
 On February 2, Qadri “surrendered“ before a Ghaziabad court and walked out on bail. He introduced himself as Ishak Ahmad, a truck driver with whom he shared living quarters in Bareilly. He also submitted a copy of Ahmad's driving licence.
 
 The revelation strengthens suspicion of a conspiracy to hide the identity of the real driver of the Q7 that night. The car owner is  , a consultant neurosurgeon at Delhi's Safdarjung hospital. Rawat told police he was in the car but wasn't driving. He fled when people started gathering at the accident site, he said. Qadri told TOI he does not know what an Audi looks like, and that he had never worked with Manish Rawat. But after he gave his statement to the police, the photo that Rawat shared with TOI of his driver was of Qadri. The doctor, however, claimed he knew him as Ishak Ahmad.
 
 The Ghaziabad crime branch, which has taken up the probe, has recommended criminal conspiracy charges against both Rawat and Qadri. The new revelations made by Qadri could help police join the dots and connect the real driver to the crime scene.
 
 Qadri had gone missing from Bareilly after it became apparent that he was an im postor. He surfaced in Mumbai's Nalasopara, where he was arrested on March 28 in a snatching case.
 
 “The judge asked me if I was Ahmad. I said yes,“ Qadri told TOI on Thursday , speaking about his February 2 visit to the Ghaziabad court. He claimed he had no idea about the accident and deaths. “I was told it was a mere formality for a car insurance (case). It was only later that I realized that I was charged for running over and killing four people,“ said Qadri. He said he was under the influence of drugs and had agreed as he was in dire need of money. Qadri also implicated Ahmad who, he alleged, was aware of his documents being submitted in court. He claimed Ahmad too was paid.
 
 Qadri claimed he was first contacted on January 29 by the insurance agent who he only knows by the surname, `Tiwari'. Qadri claimed Tiwari first offered him Rs 5,000 and later raised his offer to Rs 7,000. All Qadri had to do in return was stand in front of the judge and say `Yes' to the questions he would be asked, Twari allegedly told Qadri.
 
 Qadri worked as a parttime driver to earn his living but had been without a job for a while when Tiwari approached him.
 
 The deception built with the help of Qadri had fallen apart when TOI traced Ahmad to Assam, days after Qadri's court visit. Ahmad claimed he was driving his truck in Gujarat on the day of the accident. He has subsequently given his statement to the police claiming he is the victim of an identity theft.
 
 
 
 Police sources in Ghaziabad said Manish Rawat had filed a surrender application in the Ghaziabad court. Rawat's lawyer did not confirm or deny this. A surrender application will prevent police from directly arresting him in the case, said Rajiv Ranjan Raj, a Ghaziabad-based lawyer.Instead, the police will have to go through court. 
 
