MUMBAI: The   oseltamivir used to treat influenza   will be more widely available with the   taking it off the stringent  . Now, patients will no longer need prescriptions in triplicate to buy the drug, but it would still not be available over the counter.

 The state   on Thursday communicated the health ministry’s decision to chemists across the state urging them to immediately stock the antiviral medicine. Another drug to treat and prevent influenza   has also been withdrawn from the schedule X list that contains controlled substances and requires strict recordkeeping. Both   and zanamivir will now come under schedule H1 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and can be stored by licensed chemists.
 
 “Now, patients will only need a prescription from a registered medical practitioner to buy the drugs. Unlike schedule X, chemists don’t have to maintain records or retain a copy of the prescription for three years for schedule H1 drugs,” said Vinita Thomas, FDA’s joint commissioner (drugs) for greater Mumbai. Oseltamivir was listed under schedule X since 2009 to prevent its misuse.
 
 Of the 6,000-odd chemists in the city, less than 150 had a schedule X licence, making it difficult for swine flu patients to procure the drug. Till Thursday, oseltamivir was available only with select retailers and shops on hospital premises. Physician Dr Hemant Thacker pointed out that the antiflu tablets were hard to come by since the disease saw a spurt in June. “Patients have to scout at least a dozen shops. Why should an influenza medicine be so difficult to purchase?” 
 
 A Gamdevi resident said she spent several hours on Thursday trying to buy the medicine after her report came positive for swine flu. “A south Mumbai hospital refused to sell the drug since it was not an in-house prescription. Another hospital said they had run out of   and refused to provide an alternative without a new prescription,” she said. She finally got the drug from BMC-run Kasturba Hospital.
 
 Andheri-based distributor Hakim Kapasi said there was a shortage of the syrup form of antiviral, which is mainly prescribed for children. Prasad Danave, proprietor of chemist shops in Dahisar, said Tamiflu was in short supply, but not unavailable. A senior BMC official said the likelihood of a drug shortage due to increased demand was already flagged to FDA last week.
 
 
