GURDASPUR: From an automobile dealer, liquor contractor, petrol pump owner to a homemaker, people from different walks of life are trying their luck in Gurdaspur   by-elections.

 Of the total 11 candidates contesting the parliamentary by elections, three are from Congress, SAD-BJP and AAP, 5 are independent candidates. Meanwhile, the other three belong to   (A), Hindustan Shakti Sena and Megh Dasham Party.
 
 Most of the independent candidates claim that they already have the support of 500 to 1,500 people and are garnering more votes. They also claim that many people are ready to support them financially to organise the political rallies. Some people are also willing to bear the candidate’s travel expenses and food bill.
 
 Homemaker Santosh Kumari, a candidate of Megh Dasham Party, is all set to take up women-related issues in Gurdaspur Lok Sabha constituency."Women are still being victimised in our society and not many people raise their issues in the elections. But I will talk about them," promised Santosh. She had earlier contested 2014 Lok Sabha elections on a party ticket. 
 
 Hindustan Shakti Sena candidate Rajinder Singh told TOI, "We will start our campaign the moment we receive our election symbol." A liquor contractor by profession, Singh promises to fight against the rampant usage of narcotics.
 
 Automobile dealer Sandeep Kumar, who is also contesting the parliamentary elections independently, said that no one talks about the issues of the downtrodden anymore. "My main poll plank is to eradicate poverty," he said.
 
 A finance and real estate dealer Pardeep Kumar, who too is contesting as an independent candidate, told TOI that his mother passed away the day he filed his nomination papers. Yet he intended to carry on the fight. 
 
 Petrol pump owner Parvinder Singh wants to win the election and seek justice for nearly 2.5 lakh people of his constituency who fell victim to a finance company. "I have no other issue but to get justice for these people who have given their savings to this finance company, which refused to return their money back," he said.
 
 Philanthropist Pawan Kumar, also an independent candidate, meets the youth and discusses their issues. He also visits temples and motivates people to construct more places of worship. "We need to make our nation strong and that’s what I discuss with the people at the nukkad meetings" he said. 
 
 Satnam Singh, an independent candidate who is in the medicine business in Dera Baba Nanak, said that every political leader talks about the plight of the border residents to hog limelight before the election. However, no one has done anything for these people. ‘I know why farmers are committing suicides. If elected, we will go to the farmers and solve their issues immediately," he said.
 
 SAD (A) candidate Kulwant Singh, a three-time sarpanch of Manjhawali village, Kulwant talks about farmers’ distress and why they were taking extreme step. "We have a vision for farmers and if elected we will solve their issues on priority" he said.
 
