If you are a millennial, you probably have more know-how about make-up than NASA scientists have about space. Make-up has quickly escalated as a discipline that gives you a million avenues to explore and become internet sensations overnight. Like this woman, who filmed herself using her boyfriend’s private parts to blend her make-up. The video garnered so many eyeballs that she ended up getting job offers! The internet is currently divided on her make-up techniques, though. There’s a war going on between the ‘wow-relationship-goals-right-there’ gang and the ‘ewww-how-can-you-put-that-thing-on-your-face’ camp. And the important thing that people seem to have missed out entirely is how the practice might be harmful to the guy’s reproductive system!
But it got us thinking. This is not the first time people have used unusual, to say the least, hacks to blend their make-up. It has reached a stage where experimenters are just opening up a drawer, be it of toiletries, kitchenware or clothing, and using the first thing they can lay their hands on to slather on the foundation! Reasons range from cutting down on wastage of make-up products to ensuring smoother application. And we dare say, these won’t be the last. Here, we take a look at the weirdest tools that have qualified as make-up blenders over the last year.
 
 
 
 It’s madness, we know. But that did not stop a couple of beauty vloggers from trying out hard boiled eggs to blend their make-up. But there are two reasons why we would warn you against trying this at home — Firstly, food wastage is frowned upon in India. Secondly, a hard boiled egg that close to your face might render your self-restraint 
 useless and you might just chomp it down, most likely with your foundation still on it. But then, who are we to advise if it works for you!
 Pros: The shape and the texture
 Cons: Food wastage
 Wastage: None
 
 
 
 Because, why not! This is one of the weirdest make-up hacks that the dark underbelly of internet has come up with. But beauty vloggers swear by its usefulness, since it cuts down on absorption of products by a truckload. Supposedly, if you stuff your sponge blender in a  , the foundation glides on more easily on your skin, making the application smooth. Statutory warning: You must, must wash the lube off the rubber before using it on your face.
 Pros: They come in super saver packs
 Cons: You might have problem explaining the missing ones to your partner
 Wastage: Almost none
 
 
 
 This one beauty blogger decided to cut the cost of her beauty routine by replacing her blender with a juicy, pulpy tomato. From what she proclaimed, it worked pretty well, though she had a takeaway from the entire thing — use a smaller tomato. Sure, we can do that.
 Pros: The suppleness
 Cons: The shape
 Wastage: None
 
 
 
 This one is basically a dupe of the actual silicone blender that a make-up line came up with. But since it sold out within weeks, people of course dug out the next best thing — a bra insert! Clear and cushy, silicon bra inserts work perfectly well as a blender. Plus, since it’s not absorbent, you get to save your products.
 Pros: You can just rip one out of a discarded bra
 Cons: Might be difficult to manoeuvre
 Wastage: None
 
 
 
 A tightly wound roll of cotton that is shaped like a finger? Well, that’s almost too good to be true! Think of the reach you will have around the corners of the nose and the eye sockets! However, once you investigate, you might want to ditch them for your regular blending sponge. Because, it’s cotton, and combined with a thick, creamy liquid, it will just make bits and pieces of it tear off and stick to your face. Also, so much wastage!
 Pros: Can easily reach difficult corners, and thus great for contouring
 Cons: Will leave cotton lint on the face
 Wastage: High
 
 
 
 At first thought, they make sense. They are spongy, fluffy and can be moulded according to the need of your face. However, once you have tried it, you will probably be left cursing yourself because it will eat up so much of your expensive foundation! However, users vouch for incredible results.
 Pros: Easily available
 Cons: You need to wash them hard before they can be used again
 Wastage: Shoots through the roof
 
 
