While scores of people made merry at the carnival float parade along Panaji’s D B Marg on Saturday afternoon, there were some with flared tempers at the KTC bus stand, just a few kilometres away. Citing that it had to take a long diversion via   and   to get into the city, a local bus bearing registration number GA-01-T-9480 and bound for  , slapped a fare of 20 per passenger for a ride to Campal and Miramar stops that are en route to the destination. The approved fare to these spots is 8.
 
  With motorcycle pilots also charging exorbitant rates 200 for a ride from the KTC bus stand to Miramar via St Cruz and with no other city bus in sight, passengers had no choice but to cough up the amount demanded for a mere 8-km-long trip. But what irked them was the conductor’s refusal to issue tickets for the fare quoted. When confronted, he revealed that the regional transport office (RTO) wasn’t aware of the spike in fare and said that revolting passengers were free to get off.
  
  “For a 12-km-long bus ride from Mapusa to Panaji, I pay 14. So it is obvious that this city bus has fleeced me for travelling a much shorter distance in the name of carnival diversions. I didn’t even get a ticket when I demanded for one,” an irate citizen who works at Miramar, said.
  
  An officer of the Panaji, RTO, however, dismissed the issue of overcharging. “This is the normal charge for a longer route. Buses were diverted to   via St Cruz, which is why there was an up in fares,” he said, adding that the RTO hadn’t issued instructions regarding revised bus fares for Saturday. “Citizens must file a complaint with the RTO and provide details of the bus in question and we will take action.”
  
  When contacted, Sudeep Tamankar of the  , said, “I am not aware of the increase in fares. Bus operators must maintain the fare table issued by the RTO, which states they can only charge 8 up to four kilometres. Beyond that, the rate increases. The distressed citizens must complain to the Panaji RTO about this instance, as it is the appropriate authority to act in the matter.”
