PATNA:   have resuscitated in the state with   waking up to a rainy Friday morning and most parts of the state registering light to moderate   during the day. Met department officials said the state capital received 49.1mm of rainfall between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Friday.

 “Widespread rainfall is expected in most parts of the state, including Patna, over the next week. Southern and central parts of the state have been receiving rainfall due to favourable trough line passing through south Bihar,” Patna Met office scientist Anand Shankar said.
 
 “The low pressure area in the trough line has been triggering moisture incursion from the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea, enhancing the possibility of heavy rainfall. The week following the next week is also expected to be favourable for heavy rainfall across the state,” he added.
 
  (IMD) reports said Patna witnessed normal rainfall of 298.1mm against the expected 363.6mm till July 21. Very heavy rainfall was reported at Iqbalpur in Patna district on Thursday, justifying favourable climatic conditions in the state capital.
 
 Monsoon in Bihar has been normal this year with a departure of minus 6%. Till July 21, the state received 382.6mm of actual rainfall against the expected 408.5mm. Up to 19% positive or negative departure is considered within normal range according to meteorological standards.
 
 The synoptic features favouring monsoon in the state have led to decrease in the maximum temperature in the state capital which was reported to be 30.4 degrees Celsius on Friday. According to meteorologists, northern districts of the state would receive good rainfall as the trough line is shifting northwards from the southern and central parts of Bihar.
 
 On July 17, storm activities were reported in southeast and south central parts of Bihar, indicating movement of monsoon winds towards northern parts of the state. Until Wednesday morning, Bihar was under a dry spell with hot and dry weather conditions prevailing in most parts of the state, especially the state capital.
 
 
