CHANDIGARH: The   (EC) on Friday shunted out as many as   in poll-bound Punjab in the first mega reshuffle ahead of the February 4 polling. The transfers also put brakes on a decade-long preference to   officers instead of regular IPS officers in key field posts.

 “This is only the first list of transfers done only on merit. We have received complaints by opposition leaders against certain offices and we are looking into them,” said Punjab chief electoral officer V K Singh.
 
 The reshuffle includes SSPs of three high-profile districts. This includes Fazilka SSP Narendra Bhargava, Muktsar SSP Gurpreet Singh Gill and Amritsar Rural SSP H S Khakh. While Fazilka houses constituency of Akali Dal supremo Sukhbir Badal, Punjab chief minister   is fighting from Muktsar’s Lambi seat. Sukhbir faces AAP’s Bhagwant Mann and Badal Sr faces AAP’s Jarnail Singh.
 
 The commission also overruled recommendations sent by the  . The poll watchdog handpicked a 1994-batch IPS officer B Chandrasekhar as Patiala IG and 1998 batch Nilabh Kishore as Bathinda IG. This is outside the suggestions given by the SAD-BJP government last week.
 
 “Since these officers are outside the panel of the officers proposed by the state government earlier, the commission has sought your remarks and views for making transfer and posting,” said EC note.
 
 In fact, the EC has also removed another Bathinda IG-rank cop Jatinder Jain and replaced him with IG (law and order) Amit Prasad.
 
 These transfers come a month after chief election commissioner (CEC) Nasim Zaidi publically expressed concern over appointment of halqa in-charges, a term used to describe installation of Akali Dal MLAs who act as bridge between SSPs and public. All the 10 SSPs changed by the EC have been replaced with direct IPS officers.
 
 Cop-Out By EC
 
 Here’s how EC transferred 10 SSPS, chose 2 IGs outside the panel recommendations 
 
 New Old
 
 Amritsar City Nageswara Rao Lok Nath Angra
 
 Bathinda IG Nilabh Kishore S K Asthana
 
 Bathinda IG(int) Amit Prasad Jatinder Jain
 
 Muktsar Dhruman Nimbale Jagdeep Gill
 
 Fazilka Patil Baliram Narendra Bhargava
 
 Amritsar Rural J Elanchezihian H S khakh
 
 Patiala S Bhoopathi Gurmeet Chauhan
 
 Kapurthala Alka Meena Rajinder Singh
 
 Mansa Vivek Soni Mukhwinder
 
 Tarn Taran Harjeet Singh Snehdeep Sharma
 
 Faridkot Nanak Singh Darshan Mann
 
 Ferozepur Gaurav Garg Rachhpal Singh
 
 Batala Deepak Hilori Manmohan Sharma 
 
