NAGPUR: Politicians cutting across party divisions are nursing high hopes that the budget proposals union finance minister   spells out on Wednesday will be a game-changer for economy and life-changer for the country’s poorest. 

 “I am hoping that the budget this time will focus on the poor and at the same time boost an all-inclusive economic growth,” said Rajya Sabha member Ajay Sancheti. 
 
 He is also a member of the public accounts committee of Parliament. “The impact of demonetization will now be visible and the poor and the needy will reap benefits. All this augurs well for the economy,” he added.
 
 Senior Congress leader and ex-MP  , however, is circumspect. “The BJP always claimed to be a party with difference. Till date it has not done anything to bring about a positive difference to the country. Jaitley and Modi government will have to use budget to bring about that promised change,” said Muttemwar.
 
 “I am sure the BJP government realizes that time is running out for them and people’s patience has worn thin after the detrimental effects of demonetization. 
 
 “If budget fails to make necessary amends for bringing economy back on rails, the opportunity will be lost,” the Congress leader warned. 
 
 “So, a routine jugglery with figures would not do this time,” he added.
 
 NCP leader and ex-minister   would settle for nothing less than a complete loan waiver for farmers. “Demonetization has taken wind out of the sails of industry. Retrenchments and job loss continues till day. The real estate sector has collapsed. 
 
 “I hope Jaitley has a magic wand to wield on Wednesday and in his budget speech brings cheer back on faces of farmers and industry as well,” said Deshmukh. The housing sector should be given a push, he added.
 
 Ex-mayor and BJP MLC Anil Sole is confident that the budget would be pro-poor and welfare-oriented for various sections of society.
 
 Politics wish list
 
 Budget should focus on poor and revival of economy
 
 Complete loan waiver for farmers
 
 Sops for housing sector
 
 Revival of industrial sector
 
 
