PUNE: Online shopping has caught on in a big way among couples and singles alike. With both partners working, delivery executives of e-commerce websites often end up handing over the parcel at the recipient’s place of work. 

 This festive season, the Hinjewadi IT Park is dotted with hundreds of such parcels piled up outside company gates as delivery boys wait for techies to claim them.
 
 Opposite   campus in   2, the footpath leading to Phase 3 is littered with plastic-wrapped packages bearing the names of various online retailers. Much like in a vegetable market, delivery professionals sit with heaps of packages of different shapes and sizes, from 10am to 4-5pm.
 
 They call the customers and inform them about the pending delivery, and stand vigil. "There are such clusters everywhere around Hinjewadi, where people from the nearby IT companies go and collect their parcels. We work through the week. On weekends, we tend to hang out with friends or go out. We always shop online for almost everything," said an Infosys employee on the condition of anonymity. 
 
 Santosh, a delivery executive working for Flipkart, said, "Due to the ongoing Navaratra season and upcoming Diwali, our workload has increased. If we made 50 deliveries on an average per day, now we make 100. We don’t have a problem waiting here with the parcels, but sometimes people complain about us sitting on the footpath, and police ask us to vacate the place. Then it becomes a problem as we have to stand with all this in front of the company gate."
 
 Nilesh Bhoyar, another Infosys staffer, said, "This is the best way to have our things delivered. Due to heightened security, such deliveries are not accepted even at the reception. So this is the best way out. They are here since the morning, and we can collect our things during the lunch hour."
 
 Raheem Shaikh, who delivers packages for Amazon, also acknowledges that the festival time has increased the number of deliveries. "If I delivered 30 parcels earlier, now I deliver 70 parcels daily. The problem with the IT companies not letting us inside worsens when it rains. There is no place to take shelter, so we have to sit inside (empty) pipes," said Shaikh, pointing at one such empty cement pipe on the other side of the road.
 
 However, Bhuvan S, who arrived in Pune a week ago for his first job, feels that it would be much better if the companies allowed the delivery boys till the lobby. "It would make our lives easier if they were allowed in the lobby for may be just 2 hours during the lunch hour. It would be easier for the delivery people too, as they don’t have to sit in the sun waiting for us," said Bhuvan.
 
