Madurai: Parking along the highways can often prove to be fatal, as a steady stream of   over the years has shown. Be it at the hands of vehicles parked on the roadside or those stranded due to breakdown, many lives have been snuffed out. Five pilgrims from Andhra Pradesh were killed in an accident involving their parked tourist vehicle in Tirunelveli on Friday. 

 At least four accidents involving stationary and speeding vehicles were reported in the southern district in just four months claiming the lives of at least 15 persons including eight from other states. Experts point out that such accidents take place on highways due to two key reasons. While the absence of parking facility as well as toilet facility at regular intervals is cited as one cause, lack of awareness among drivers is being pointed out as another reason. 
 
 C Sathiah of Madurai Lorry Owners Association says that inadequate infrastructure facilities are the main reason for recurring accidents on highways. In the absence of parking bays and toilets, vehicles parked on the roadside resulted in accidents. “While there should be a parking bay for drivers who want to relieve themselves at 50 km interval, not a single proper toilet is available on the Madurai-Kanyakumari stretch for about 200 kms,”he points out. 
 
 Lack of monitoring by the toll plaza authorities is also a reason for the accidents. It is the duty of the toll plaza authorities to monitor the road constantly. If there is a stranded vehicle or vehicles parked inappropriately, they should take efforts to caution other road users by placing reflectors. “For the drivers who would be tired in the night and morning hours, it would be hard to notice the vehicles stranded on the road,” he said. 
 
 A Narasimmamani, chairman of Driving Needs Academy, point out the issues on the other side. According to him the driver’s ignorance should take the blame for not taking precautions to alert the other road users. It was his responsibility to caution others by placing sign boards. They should be sensitized, he said. 
 
 Sathiah added “In many toll plazas, the helpline number is not in use. When I travel on highways I used to try and check the number, but it does not work at many places. The chances of the drivers contacting for help is negligible.”
 
 When contacted , an NHAI (National Highway Authority of India) official said every possible help was being provided on the road. He found fault with the drivers for not seeking help. Irresponsible road usage and speeding often result in road accidents, he pointed out
 
 
