NEW DELHI: In a move that could lead to a ban on the controversial Popular Front of India, the home ministry held a series of meetings last week to review the terror cases involving its cadre which are being probed by   and police forces of  , Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.

 PFI, which claims to be an NGO, could face action under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act if the home ministry concludes that it is sufficiently linked with cases of jihadi terror and promotes Islamic fundamentalism.   has denied terror links and accused   of levelling wrong allegations.
 
 Home ministry sources said there is enough material against PFI, including a dossier from NIA detailing role of its cadres in six terror cases probed by and inputs from states where the organisation’s members face allegations of religious extremism, terror and ‘forced’ conversions to justify a ban.
 
 “The debate really is whether to ban PFI as an ‘unlawful association’ as was done in the case of televangelist Zakir Naik’s NGO Islamic Research Foundation, or proscribe it as a full-fledged ‘terrorist’ outfit,” said a home ministry officer. NIA has found links between PFI and the banned Students Islamic Movement of India.
 
 PFI leader P Koya told TOI earlier that the outfit believed in identity politics but did not work on sectarian lines. He denied any PFI role in terror cases.
 
 NIA recently added to its dossier that originally cited four terror cases involving PFI cadres — chopping of a professor’s hand in Kerala’s Idukki district, a training camp in Kannur where NIA seized swords and ingredients for making IEDs, murder of RSS leader Rudresh in Bengaluru and the Islamic State Al-Hindi Module case in which IS-inspired youth from Kerala and Tamil Nadu planned to target prominent people and places in south India.
 
 Two more cases involving alleged PFI cadres were cited — that of Hadiya alias Akhila Asokan’s “forced” conversion and the 2017 ISIS/Daesh Chennai case where linkages to PFI have surfaced.
 
 On Thursday and Friday, the home ministry brass, NIA officials and legal teams met to discuss drafting of the notification banning PFI. “The legal teams have been asked to choose words carefully while drafting the notification. The move can be challenged in court and top lawyers could argue against the ban. Our case must stand judicial scrutiny,” said an officer.
 
 NIA’s dossier on PFI claims it pursues a strategy aimed at communalising Indian polity, enforcing   brand of Islam, heightening existing social divisions and maintaining a trained bank of volunteers for various actions.
 
 “PFI had consistently been indulging in actions detrimental to overall national security,” NIA said adding “the outfit has squads of trainers and experts in making crude bombs and IEDs, an intelligence wing...and action squads to run unlawful and violent activities”. It said PFI uses sister outfits like Sathya Sarani based in Malappuram to carry out “forceful conversions”, with the most recent cases of Akhila Asokan and Athira Nambiar in which PFI women’s wing chief Sainaba A S has emerged as an alleged ‘mentor’.
 
 
