About three months before Durga puja commences, Dilip Pal sets out from   for his annual sojourn to Goa. An idol-maker by profession, he settles down in South Goa and sets up for the stay.
He brings with him several items and tools needed for his craft, most of which are sourced from Kumartuli — the famous potters’ colony in north Kolkata, on the banks of the Hooghly river. But, according to Dilip, the most important thing that he brings along is bags full of Ganga ‘mati’ — clay dug out of the Ganges. Clay from no other region can give as smooth a finish to idols, says Dilip.
 Dilip’s journey as an artisan in Goa began under the guidance of his brother-in-law Rajkumar Pal, who was the first Durga idol maker to come to the coastal state to practise his trade under the patronage of the Goa Banga Samiti operating out of Vasco.
 In the early days, the organisation comprised Bengalis among Indian Navy personnel living in the Vasco naval base. Along with local residents, they organised Goa’s first Durga puja in 1967 in one of the aircraft hangars of the defence establishment.
 “Rajkumar had been making the idol for us for several years. We were the first organisers to bring him to Goa,” said  , a senior member of the organisation. 
 The puja venue later shifted to   in Vasco, where it is being held for over 40 years. 
 With a budget of approximately Rs 5.5 lakh, organisers source most of the key materials as well as the dhaaki (traditional percussionist) and cooks from West Bengal. The head priest of the Vasco Kalibari (Vasco   Temple) — also set up by the organisation — conducts the rituals. Organisers also make arrangements for a community lunch comprising Bengali vegetarian preparations that is open to all.
 In the earlier days, the Vasco puja drew many visitors from Panaji who would travel to South Goa and stay in a hotel for the five days of celebrations in their bid to actively take part in the festivities. “But, with time, the group expanded and it became cumbersome to travel all the way to Vasco and stay there. So we finally decided to organise our own puja here in Panaji,” says secretary of the Bengali Cultural Association, Mrityunjoy Chakraborty.
 “The puja earlier used to be held in the   hall. But then we had to move from there, and change venues a few times till we came to our current venue at Gomantak Maratha Samaj building,” says the association’s president G C Bhattacharya. The puja, replete with games and cultural events, will be celebrated for the 37th time this year. The total budget includes expenses for a priest, percussionist, cook and decorators, who travel all the way to Goa for the festival. This year, provisions have also been made for a homemade food fest on Tuesday, the maiden day of the festival.
 “The beauty of Durga puja in Goa lies in the role it has played in assimilating the local residents and those of us who have come from outside and have settled here,” Chakraborty says.
 And as one moves a little farther away from the capital, towards the northern part of the state, there is yet another puja organised in Mapusa by the resident Bengali community with support from locals. Organised on comunidade land bordering the highway opposite the Bodgeshwar temple, the puja was initiated in 2006 by a handful of Bengalis, most of whom were goldsmiths by profession. Their numbers have since grown to over four times and the puja now witnesses a daily footfall of at least 500 people. 
 “This year, the rain disrupted our plans and we are running a little behind schedule. But, everything will be in place before the inauguration, on Tuesday,” says B Kumar, a senior member of the organising committee.
 Another motley group of Bengalis, who set foot in Goa in 2004 when BITS Pilani opened its Goa campus, also set up their own Durga puja in due time. “Elaborate Durga puja celebrations are organised in the institute’s main campus in Pilani. So when we shifted here, we wanted to do something of our own. That is how this puja came about,” says Aditya Prasad Koley, associate dean, instruction division, who was one of the founding members. Organised at the student activity centre with the campus premises, the festivities see active participation from students, faculty and support staff alike.
 The most recent of Durga puja celebration in Goa is probably the one organised by Sarvajanik Durga Puja Samiti in Fatorda. Held at Samrat Garden opposite Ravindra Bhavan, it commenced in 2012 with an organising committee comprising about 30 members. With the numbers increasing to about 150 now, the scale and grandeur of festivities has also gone up. 
 “We have a 10-foot high idol this time. For the first time we have also made provisions for a Chhau dance performance,” said Manik Dey, general secretary of the organising committee. Chhau is a semi-classical dance form with martial and tribal origins indigenous to West Bengal.
 This way, Durga puja continues to remain true to its nature of uniting people and blurring community and state lines. The spirit of the festival continues to spread its magic far away from home as well.
 
