

 Later, when Lord Arran, who sponsored the bill in the House of Lords, was asked why it passed but another bill he proposed, to protect badgers, failed, he replied, “There are not many badgers in the House of Lords.”
 
 While Arran was straight himself, he had inherited his title after his gay brother committed suicide. Leo Abse, the Labour MP whose Private Member bill had started the process in the House of Commons, also knew many politicians tormented by their secret sexuality. One was George Thomas, who became Speaker and who, Abse revealed after Thomas’ death, he had helped pay off a man blackmailing him.
 
 In the past those without power or money to pay off accusers could face far worse fates. The Buggery Act of 1533, the origin of the statute changed by the 1967 bill, prescribed the death penalty and it was imposed as late as 1835 when James Pratt and John Smith were hanged in London.
 
 Charles Dickens reported on them in prison and left a vivid description of the “pale, haggard face” of one of them, “his eyes wildly staring before him, he seemed to be unconsciously intent on counting the chinks in the opposite wall.”
 
 Hensleigh Wedgwood, the magistrate in the case, was forced by the law to impose capital punishment, but felt strongly it should not be administered. He wrote to the government pointing out “it is the only crime where there is no injury done to any individual” and that it was highly unequal.
 
 Pratt and Smith were caught because they were too poor to have their own place, but had rented a room where the landlord spied on them. Rich men would never face such a penalty, wrote Wedgwood, yet Pratt and Smith were hanged.
 
 In 1861 the law was changed to remove capital punishment, but as a backlash of sorts its ambit was soon expanded. An amendment in 1885, tacked on at the last minute to a mostly unrelated bill, by a MP who might not even have been serious about it, criminalized “gross indecency” between men, a term so vague it could be, and soon was, used to prosecute any suggestion of homosexuality — Oscar Wilde and   being two of its most famous victims. And it dramatically expanded the potential for blackmail.
 
 This morass of misuse, malice and misery was what the 1967 bill sought to end. It had been recommended 10 years earlier in the Wolfenden report, which had even been supported by the Archbishop of Canterbury of that time.
 
 But politicians as ever were loath to take on controversial issues with little electoral appeal. It took mavericks like Abse and Arran, who had personal knowledge of the harm caused by the law, to take on the job of changing it and, finally, Royal Assent was given on July 27, 1967.
 
 That such a law could exist, and that it could take so long to change it, seems absurd today when the House of Commons has 45 openly lesbian, gay or bisexual MPs, and when Prime Minister Theresa May marked the 50th anniversary by apologising for the fact that her Tory party has often lagged in accepting LGBT rights.
 
 What no one in the UK seems to have thought of doing is apologizing for how the British exported their hatred of homosexuality and willingness to penalise it to countries around the world, including India — where far from being repealed, the law is still very much in force.
 
 Ancient Indian society seems to have been mostly tolerant or only mildly censorious of varied sexualities. It was the spirit of Britain’s Buggery Act that Lord Macaulay drew on when he drafted   of the Indian Penal Code criminalising “carnal intercourse against the order of nature.”
 
 Passed in 1860, it was soon in full force. In 1860 the Times of India reported that magistrates “committed John Jackson, a seaman of the P. and O. Company steamship Indus to take trial…for an unnatural offence under section 377.”
 
 We have no details about what proof was used in Jackson’s case. But soon it was clear that little proof was needed. In the case of Queen Emperor vs Khairati in 1884 the victim was a ‘eunuch’ picked up not in any sexual encounter but “found singing dressed as a woman.” Medical examination found her anus to have the appearance of having committed sodomy and that would be sufficient for Section 377.
 
 Cases like Khairati matter because an idea has grown that Section 377 really is not an issue because it just deals with a sexual act, not actually being a homosexual, and anyway it is hardly ever used. This is completely false. Starting with Khairati, British and Indian judges interpreted the law to criminalise just being a homosexual, much as the ‘gross indecency’ clause was used in the UK.
 
 Section 377 is used all the time, either in actual imposition or, even more, the threat of it. Because most of those charged or threatened with it are poor and unable or unwilling to fight, the extent of its use gets underreported.
 
 It is unequal law, as Wedgwood noted, and one that actually facilitates another crime, with all the cases of blackmail — which sharply increased after a Supreme Court bench perversely reimposed it in 2013.
 
 This government has repeatedly spoken of the need to throw away colonial legacies in everything from the English language to convocation gowns. Why can’t it discard this most perverse of legacies, 157 years after it was imposed and 50 years after even those who imposed it decided it needed to go?
 
