RANCHI:/JAMSHEDPUR: Praveen Kumar, a government employee who usually prefers   for his Saturday lunch, had to settle for a fish curry. Homemaker Soma Roy rushed to the   market early in the morning to beat any crisis in the near future — she scored some tilapia fish, which, she says, is a good decent enough substitute for mutton. 

 As meat shops remained closed across Ranchi on Saturday, non-vegetarian foodies flocked to the city’s fish markets for their daily fix of flesh. The two industrial towns of Jamshedpur and Adityapur are also expecting a jump in demand over the next few days. 
 
 With rising demand, the prices of fish have risen, though not by a significant margin, in some markets. Rohu and Katla coming from other states were selling for Rs.140 a kg, which is the usual price. However, fish procured from the local dams were selling for Rs 200-Rs 240 per kg, an increase of about Rs 20 per kg. 
 
 At the Morhabadi weekly haat, fish was sold out as the queues of chicken sellers were not to be seen. Gobind Sahu, a fish seller, said he was not prepared for the sudden demand and ran out of stock. “My mother sits near Medical Chowk every day, while I come to the haat twice a week. I finished my entire stock today and within two hours,” he said. 
 
 Manish, a fish-seller at the wholesale   at Mullahtoli, said he was expecting a rise in demand because chicken and mutton vendors had said they would not be opening their shops from Saturday. “We are suspicious that the next crackdown would be on us. Recently, we received a government notice to shift to the modernised fish market near the fisheries directorate on HEC campus. The market was not shifted due to stiff resistance from us,” he said.
 
 Buyers at the markets were also apprehensive that the fish rates would go up in the days to come. “The Ranchi markets get most of its stock of fish from Andhra Pradesh and the local varieties are always in short supply as a result of which they are priced exorbitantly,” said Rama Bhattacharya, who could not get any local fresh fish by late afternoon. 
 
 Meanwhile, the two industrial towns of Jamshedpur and Adityapur and their peripheral areas — which consume over 500 tonnes of fish every day — are also expecting a jump in demand in the next few days. “The government order to ban illegal slaughterhouses and meat shops was effected on the day of the start of Vasanta Navratri and the demand for fish is not overwhelmingly evident as of now. However, we expect the demand to soar in the next four days,” said wholesale fish trader Md. Ashraf. 
 
 Similarly, Ashok Saw, a wholesale trader at Sakchi market, said, “It would not be wise to arrive at a particular figure at present, but fish consumption will increase and that would push up the demand for the product.” Retail fish traders have maintained that though fish demand is expected to grow, it would be limited to the fish sourced from local areas. 
 
 “The fish sourced from the two (adjoining) rivers of Subernarekha, Kharkhai besides Domuhani, and from ponds in Chandil, Chakulia, Seraikela are mostly in demand in the retail market whereas imported fish is largely supplied to hospitals, restaurants and hotels,” Ganesh Saw, a fish retailer said. 
 
 “Today, we sold Rohu and Katla fish at rupees Rs 100 and 120 per kg respectively, with moderate increase in the demand. We have to wait till Ramnavami is over to see if the demand actually shoots up,” Uma Shankar Saw, who sold 15kg fish on Saturday, said. 
 
 
