 had everything going for her — a happy marriage, motherhood, a successful acting career on TV… and then one day, severe depression turned her world topsy-turvy. 
Talking about the war she waged against her own mind, Shalini says, “My baby was just nine months old and I was shooting back-to-back. Everything was going fine, but one day, my life turned upside down. I was heavily into meditation and started finding it difficult to connect with the real world. One day, while driving back home from a meditation session, I felt a sudden jolt and started palpitating. I didn’t want to go to shoot after that; I just shut myself from the world. It is called the Disconnection Syndrome. I didn’t want to see anybody, hated everyone and was struggling physically and mentally. My face was swollen. Everything seemed unreal and everybody around, negative. There were occasions when I would start breathing heavily and storm out of script narrations. People thought I had gone crazy, but only I knew the struggle within.”
 Though a fulfiling experience, motherhood was a huge challenge. Shalini explains, “Initially, it was difficult to come to terms with the emotional and physical changes that followed the delivery. There was also the baby who was dependent on me for every little thing. I would often wonder what was happening to me. It would have been better if my family was staying with me, but that wasn’t the case. To add to it, I was working non-stop.”
 Like most Indian families, her loved ones too thought that she was possessed. The next few months were spent making several rounds to a baba for jhaad-phook. She says, “You become gullible when you are emotionally vulnerable. I believe in a supreme power and the existence of the supernatural, but I don’t know if any man has the power to fight such entities. I knew I wasn’t doing the right thing by going to the baba. Finally, I decided to go to a doctor. I couldn’t believe when he told me that I had symptoms of depression and anxiety. I was taken aback, as I though I was in a happy space after becoming a mother and was even part of a popular show. However, I decided to trust the doctor and completed the course. Slowly, I recovered. I could do so because of a supportive husband (actor  ) and family. I also thought about my baby and how he would survive if I gave up. I am on a much reduced dosage of medication now.”
 
  
  
 
