

 This extract, from a recent online post by  , highlights the daily struggles of   people; to be regarded for their intelligence rather than looks, and to change how trans violence is only understood in so much as it can be likened to sexism facing cis women, among other things.
 
 An acclaimed New York City-based non-binary writer and public speaker, Alok is a prominent voice in the transgender movement, and their 
 expressive poetry has touched several youth. Alok is town today, to teach and talk about writing and performing. Pune Times catches up with them for an exclusive chat. Excerpts… 
 
 
 In a society run by cisgender, heterosexual men, for women and trans people to speak (let alone write) is already political. I didn't start writing with a political intent, I started writing because I didn't see/hear/experience any stories about people like me. When I started writing about my life, my friends, my loves, and the things that I care about and affect me deeply, people began to understand this work as activist work. I am concerned with how believing in the basic dignity of women and transgender people is "activism;" for me it seems more like humanity. Poetry has a unique ability to humanise us.
 
 
 
 My friends are the people who inspire me the most because I'm actually able to dialogue with them about their work, and it is through these conversations and performances that I am able to grow as an artist. I'm a big believer that our friends are the ones that have the deepest ability to inspire and propel us. For example, my friend Shea Diamond recently released a new EP, and listening to it really helps prepare me to write poetry. I recently spent some time performing in South Africa and collaborated with Black gender non-conforming pop sensation Umlilo and DJ Fela Gucci of FAKA. In Bangalore, I got to connect with my friends at Alternative Law Forum, a human rights lawyers collective who continually inspire me. There are basically too many to list!
 
 
 Every poem is deeply intimate to me because each one is a part of me. Poetry is a way of archiving what I'm feeling in a particular moment in my life. When I read my poems I am - quite literally - sharing parts of myself. So I would say that I am inspired by my life - the spectacular, the tragic, the mundane. 
 
 
 Spoken word is really a form of story telling. We don't often hear stories about queer (and especially trans) people in the mainstream media. I don't write poems as a way to demonstrate issues we face, I write poems to expose the issues that people have with people like me. What poetry allows me to do is speak about the particularities of my life and have it resonate with people who are totally different from me. In that way, it challenges the persistent homophobia and transphobia that maintains that queer people are inherently 'different,' and that that difference is something negative and not something promising.
 
 
 Yes. I struggle with this a lot. The reality of the situation is that there are very few people who look like me who are granted the platform to be listened to. When I walk onto the stage, almost everyone is just going to see a "man in a dress," and that will be on their minds no matter what I say. Even if I'm talking about something completely outside of gender and sexuality, people will inevitably think this is some sort of metaphor for my body. This is what it means to be an artist in a patriarchal and transphobic world - we don't have the privilege to have imaginations separate form our physicality. I address this by naming these dynamics during my performances - confronting my audiences with their own problematic gazes.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Growing up, I insisted on wearing my sisters clothing, having roses on all of my birthday cakes, and dancing at all of the dinner parties my family hosted. I didn't experience prejudice on account of this because my family and community thought it was endearing that I loved my sister so much. The problem came when I hit "puberty," and I was told that I was becoming a "man," and that therefore I should outgrow my femininity. That made me so sad because misogyny teaches us that masculinity is maturity and femininity is something to be belittled and infantilised. I'm still that same kid at heart, and it's very difficult to live in a world that will call me a man and not see who I really am.
 
 
 Non-binary people, and especially those of us who are assigned male at birth, experience extremely high rates of physical and verbal abuse, poverty, homelessness, police violence, and denial of comprehensive healthcare. The situation has improved for some members of our community who enjoy racial and class privileges, but for the majority of non-binary people who are poor and/or people of colour, the situation remains bleak. This is because the gains for trans activists in the US have largely been for medicalized, binary trans people, and not those of us who are gender non-conforming.
 
 
 Yes, I think reservations on the basis of gender are very important. However, they must include those of us who experience gender-based violence who are not cisgender women as well (trans women, non-binary people, queer people, etc.). I also think there's this thing that happens, where we only address the symptoms of patriarchy and not the root causes. What would it look like to prioritise ending harassment, male entitlement, and sexual violence? Why is it always about modifying the behavior/spaces/locations of women and not men?
 
 
 Because my art practice is so personal, each of the workshops and performances I give directly reflect what I'm feeling in the given moment. I improvise a lot, respond to energy, interest, and experiences in the crowd. Anticipate spontaneity, vulnerability, discomfort, and curiosity. That's all I say.
 
 
 One thing I see across Indian people across the world is that we find it difficult to seriously engage with questions of mental health. A lot of my work directly names and confronts depression, loneliness, disappointment and love. I really believe in the power of emotional intelligence - learning how to work through difficult scenarios and experiences. It is only through developing our emotional intelligence - and therefore our ability to love and forgive - can we seriously support transgender people. People need to do self-work before they can help others.
 
 
 
