NEW DELHI: Several British Parliamentarians and opposition party members have slammed their government for cash handouts to people in  , which is "a country that has its own nuclear weapons and space programmes", Belfast Telegraph reported.

 These comments come after the Daily Mail newspaper yesterday reported that £300 million of British taxpayers' money is being handed out to Pakistanis on pre-loaded cash cards as part of a scheme critics say is rife with corruption.
 
 That's not all. The UK is planning to increase foreign aid to Pakistan by a further £105 million, when the latter spent as much as £4 billion to buy eight new submarines. All this while there is a crisis in social care in Britain itself.
 
 "Surely common sense tells us that giving cash handouts in a country that has its own nuclear weapons and space programmes is simply wrong. Our own UK taxpayers are facing more and more cuts on a daily basis whilst we are providing benefits to the citizens of Pakistan," the UK  's (UKIP) Lisa Duffy was quoted as saying by the Belfast Telegraph.
 
 One MP said taxpayer-funded cash handouts to people in Pakistan is akin to "exporting the dole". 
 
 The dole in Britain is a small sum of money paid by the government to the unemployed, so there's no doubt the MP's comment was not meant to a compliment.
 
 MP   said warned that cash transfers were "clearly open to fraud".
 
 "Normally this sort of aid is only given in a crisis or emergency when it is the only way to give help. It only should be a temporary measure, but it seems like we're exporting the dole to Pakistan, which is clearly not a clever idea," said Evans, who's also a member of the member of the International Development Select Committee.
 
 UK's Prime Minister   defended the scheme it supports in Pakistan - the Benazir Income Support Programme - saying it helps the poorest families there, Belfast Telegraph. But a Daily Mail investigation found Pakistani families withdrawing money with cashpoint cards they obtained by actually paying kickbacks to officials.
 
 
 
 
 
 
