MUMBAI: The  , along with BEST, have opened up   in some   and stations to accommodate school buses parked haphazardly on  . BEST on Friday announced it will allow parking of school buses at three depots—Backbay, Worli and Mumbai Central. The move may also boost the transport undertaking’s chances of coming out of the red.

 Sources said parking could also be allowed at a few bus stations including those near Mantralaya, Tardeo, etc. “School bus operators can make an application to respective depot managers and the proposal will be put up before the general manager for a final clearance. Once approved, the operators can park their school bus fleet in our depots/bus stations,” said a senior officer from the traffic wing. 
 
 Anil Garg of School Bus Owners Association had earlier complained about the lack of parking spaces in SoBo for school buses, saying the available ones were “exorbitant”. 
 
 Said joint police commissioner (traffic) Amitesh Kumar: “We have asked BEST to provide parking space for buses and other private vehicles and this will help redress the parking issue.” Another traffic police officer said school buses can now opt for BEST parking lots at affordable rates. “It is better than parking on the roadside,” the officer, who requested anonymity, said. Traffic police earlier received complaints from locals and motorists about school buses being parked on the roads, especially near Babulnath, following which parking on key SoBo roads was banned a month ago.
 
 A senior BEST official said school bus operators will have to seek permission for at least five buses. “The parked vehicle should not obstruct the smooth functioning of depots and bus stations,” the official stated. 
 
 At present, space at the Colaba depot is occupied by four-wheelers from corporates and hotels, leaving little space for buses, sources said. Under the new rules, all operators parking inside BEST depots/stations will have to pay monthly charges in advance. “The operator will also pay an interest-free security deposit which is refunded provided no damage is caused to our property,” an official said. 
 
 School buses can be parked only within the areas earmarked at the bus depots, in an orderly manner. “The party shall adhere to the security check of vehicles entering and leaving the depot premises and shall ensure that the vehicle arrive /leave along the designated route,” the official said. 
 
 In case of breakdown of any vehicle, the party will have to arrange to tow the vehicle outside the depot. Any defective vehicle shall not be allowed to be attended in the depot premises under any circumstances. The undertaking will not be liable to pay any compensation in case any accident or injury is caused to the outside vehicle/person arising out of egress and and ingress of the vehicles in the bus depot,” the rules stated.
 
 
