BHOPAL: The transfer of Bhind district collector Illayaraja T after the EVM fiasco did not go well with the residents, who registered a protest on Sunday. Local residents including traders, farmers and students took to the street in support of Illayaraja.

 Very popular, the former collector had endeared himself with the local population with his pro-active steps and availability to distressed people at any hour of the day.
 
 During his earlier visits to the district, chief minister   too had lauded the official’s efforts.
 
 “The former collector was awake till midnight on Saturday looking for a suitable accommodation for a girl who got separated from her parents during a fair,” said  , a local resident.
 
 “I cannot recall about any such incident wherein a collector gets personally involved,” said Singh, who was among those protesting the officer’s transfer.
 
 Bind district was plagued with several issues like female infanticide, illegal sand mining, celebratory firings, mass copying in exams when Illayaraja took charge as collector in October 2015.
 
 More than 80% of the examination centers in Bhind were tagged as ‘sensitive or highly sensitive’.
 
 To curb mass copying, this 2009 batch IAS officer had initiated a unique painting campaign to create awareness among parents and students against copying. Painting competitions for students from Classes 3 to Class 12 were held and they were asked to draw their imagination on how cheating will affect their career. The paintings were then put up near the board exam centers and it clicked. Mass copying and cheating cases registered a drastict drop in the last two years.
 
 Another popular initiative of Ilayaraja was to provide free coaching to students preparing for civil services. He ensured that senior administrative officials came forward to teach the students, share their experiences and give tips.
 
 He ran similar campaigns for cleanness too. The district hospital in Bhind is now considered as one of the best healthcare facility in   region, and the local resident give the credit for it to Illayaraja T.
 
 Besides being popular, he had taken a tough stand against the mining mafia also. A few months ago, he had earned the wrath of mining mafia there were strong rumours about move to transfer him.
 
 
