NASHIK: The   has found a unique way to   from defecating in the open — seize their  . 

 Since February, officials of the water and sanitation department have seized over 16,000 water buckets from people defecating in open areas across the rural areas of the district.
 
 The department started the since February in all 15 talukas of the district. In many talukas, the officials wrote names of the villagers found defecating in the open on the water buckets and hung those at the gram panchayat offices. 
 
 The officials said this had an impact as it prompted many villagers have decided to construct toilets. 
 
 Sinnar block development officer (BDO)   said, “As part of the Swacchh Bharat Abhiyan, we want to make the entire taluka free of   in the next few months. Keeping this in mind, the drive of seizing the water buckets was taken up in the villages of Sinnar initially. The drive was then taken to other talukas of the district.”
 
 The officer said the government was providing an allowance of Rs 12,000 to each family of farmers who have marginal land and those belonging to the below poverty line category to encourage them to construct their own toilets. The financial scheme was not meant for farmers who have huge land, tractors, motorcycles and cars. 
 
 Senior officials said they would soon start lodging complaints with the police against people who were found defecating in the open. They added that under section 115 of the Bombay Police Act, a person can be booked for committing nuisance in or near a street or public place of place of public resort by easing himself. 
 
 If a person is booked under the Bombay Police Act, he is taken to court that can slap penalty on him. For over a year, the Nashiak zilla parishad has been trying to spread awareness of not defecating in the open. It has also conducted drives such as Good Morning campaign, under which people found defecating in the open are spotted and gifted a rose with a request not to defecate in the open in their own and the villages’ interests. 
 
 The officials said open defecation often led to serious health issues, such as diarrhoea, among children. 
 
