Durga Puja celebration overseas is nothing new, though the scale and grandeur have grown in recent times. And this year, London Sharad Utsav (LSU) -a west London-based Durga Puja committee -is taking it all a notch higher. It has tied up with the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS),  , for a clay idolmaking workshop, to be conducted by eminent artist Koushik Ghosh.“Our Puja will commence on September 28 and end on October 1 and Koushik will build an idol at the venue, next to the current pratima.Even the old idol was made by him.After the bisarjan, the workshop will continue in the Paul Webley wing of the London University Senate House.We're also in talks with local schools for participation in the workshop,“ an LSU member told us, adding that they are planning to worship the new idol from next Puja.

 
 Interestingly, the new idol will be modular, as even the head can be changed! “For the first time, we're using the vigraha style of idol making. This will allow us to change different components of the idol, including clothes and jewellery , and if required, the head. We can also add something new to the idol every year, without undertaking a full-fledged idol-making exercise like this year.And this is very important, given the cost and logistics involved in such an undertaking,“ said Suranjan Som, another LSU member.
 
 Explaining how he would make such an idol, Koushik told us, “I'm making the idol till the shoulder along with three-four different heads.Besides, the sari and the jewellery are also detachable so that these can be changed every year.“
 
 
 
 But that's not the sole aim of LSU's exercise. “Using the idol and the accessories, we will promote traditional crafts like dokra, Baluchari, kantha stitch and so on,“ said an LSU member.
 The idea to change the sari and the jewellery is part of the Bengal Heritage Project that has been initiated by a number of Bengali associations all over the UK to promote the cultural heritage of their home state. “This is an honest effort by a group of like-minded individuals to showcase the culture, arts and heritage of Bengal to the rest of the world, our initial focus being the UK. We've planned, and in some cases, executed, a number of initiatives under this project to promote textiles from Bengal and provide a platform to showcase art and culture of the state -be in the form of patachitra or the unique sounds of Bengal such as baul, kirtan, Rabindrasangeet etc,“ the member added.
 In fact, the idol then might also be displayed as a centrepiece at the Bloomsbury Festival, which will start on October 18 this year. “They wanted a Kali pratima. Along with it, our new idol will be on display . Talks are on,“ said the member. Though the main Durga pratima will be made in the UK, the idols of her children are already being made in   by Koushik and these will be shipped to London ahead of Puja.
 The artist, who will be flying to the UK on September 27, is excited about his journey . “This is the first time I will see an idol made by me being worshipped. I've travelled to many places for work, including a trip to the US to create decorations for Banga Sammelan at the Madisson Square Garden in Manhattan, but I've never seen my craft being worshipped,“ he said with a smile.
 
 
 
 
 
