NEW DELHI: After 22 years of   monitoring and around Rs 5,000 crore being spent, the   continues to   like a sewer in Delhi, prompting the apex court to talk tough on Monday as it asked the authorities to act fast and sought a comprehensive report from the Delhi Jal Board on operation of interceptor sewage projects (ISP) and sewage treatment plants (STP).

 A bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar and Justices D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay Kishan Kaul directed the Delhi Jal Board to file the report within two weeks giving details on the status of all projects aimed at checking pollution of the river. 
 
 The chief engineer of DJB told the bench that 85% of ISP work had been done and the project would be operational by end of March. He said the board is making all efforts to complete the project as soon as possible. The court, however, asked him to file a report on the present status of the project and also regarding operation of drainage and sewage treatment plants.
 
 From 1994, when the apex court took up monitoring of steps to reduce pollution in Yamuna, and 2012, Uttar Pradesh has spent Rs 2,052 crore, Delhi government and its civic bodies Rs 2,387 crore and Haryana Rs 549 crore to clean the river, taking the total to Rs 4,988 crore.
 
 Solicitor General Ranjit Kumar, who is assisting the court as amicus curiae since 1994, told the bench that the task of cleaning had become difficult as the amount of untreated sewage flowing into Yamuna had grown exponentially over the years, which is now at 1500-1600 million gallons per day.
 
 Anguished by the unfruitful attempts by the governments of Delhi, UP and Haryana in reducing pollution in Yamuna, the court sought details on the amount spent during the last two decades to clean the 22-km stretch of Yamuna passing through Delhi.
 
 Giving details of its expenditure, the Uttar Pradesh government had told the court that it had spent Rs 4,124 crore on making the river's water potable. The   and   had spent an additional Rs 315 crore on cleaning the Yamuna.
 
 DJB had said that expenditure incurred by it towards controlling and preventing pollution of the river was approximately Rs 2,072 crore. NDMC said it had spent Rs 140 crore while MCD had pegged its expenses at Rs 175 crore. 
 
 
