AHMEDABAD/SURAT/ VADODARA: The results of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections have delighted the Gujarati community that has been in Mumbai for generations. For the first time, nearly one-third of the 226 seats in the biggest civic body of India have gone to Gujarati candidates.

 Political pundits say that BJP gained in areas such as Mulund, Kandivali, Borivali, Ghatkopar, etc, even after its NDA ally, Shiv Sena, decided to fight the polls on its own. This divided votes, making it easier for voters to choose.
 
 Shining support
 
 Sanjay Kothari, former chairman of Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) and a leading diamantaire in Mumbai, said that in his three decades of stay in the city, he has never seen Gujarati candidates winning in such a large number.
 
 “In the municipal election polls, Gujaratis have sailed on BJP’s boat. There were other factors responsible — one was the campaigning by Jain Munis after the meat episode outside the derasar, and PAAS leader   joining hands with Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray,” Kothari said.
 
 “Gujaratis have earned goodwill by their work in the social sector. When Gujarati candidates stood in the elections, people voted for them,” said Ashok Shah, chairman of a logistics firm and vice-president of JITO International.
 
 Shaking off coalition
 
  burden 
 
 Ashwin Anam, a resident of Chembur and founder of Gujarati Vichar Manch, said that there used to be a coalition of Shiv Sena and BJP in the past. 
 
 “If the candidate was not good, there used to be lower turnout,” Anam said. “But this time, it seems the community unanimously decided to support the BJP. There were more voters which resulted in more seats for the party. We hope there is no drama about who would rule the civic body.” 
 
 Gujarati vote did not split
 
 Vipul Shah, CMD of Asian Star, a global diamond firm, said he was happy to see that Gujaratis have finally become organized. “We have never seen Gujaratis winning so many seats in municipal elections,” Shah said. “We are all Mumbaikars but our voice as Gujaratis will be heard in the civic body on local issues.”
 
 Dr  , a national award winning surgeon at Nanavati Hospital, said Gujaratis have cast a united vote against voices that wanted to divide people on regional lines in Maharashtra. 
 
 “Borivali has seen the highest 65% voter turnout - a very vocal referendum against parties pursuing the dirty politics of regionalism,” said Doshi, a resident of Borivali.
 
 Gopi Desai, actor and theatre personality, said that Gujaratis have been an integral part of the city. “A large number of Gujarati corporators will contribute in overhauling the civic infrastructure,” she said.
 
 Thumbs up for PM’s 
 
 policies 
 
 Paresh Rawal, Ahmedabad (E) MP and Bollywood actor, sees the result as a referendum on the PM’s policies. “Let’s not polarize Gujarati or Marathi Manus for BJP and Shiv Sena respectively. People have voted for Modi, BJP and  ,” Rawal told TOI.
 
 Bollywood actor Manoj Joshi, echoed Rawal’s thoughts. “People of Mumbai voted for civic issues and not on the basis of any community. Do you think Marathi community didn't vote for the BJP? I think that people voted largely for the party which they felt will address the civic issues in Mumbai,” Joshi said.
 
 
