JALANDHAR: Senior vice-president of Aam Aadmi   (AAP) Sukhdev Singh Bhaur on Sunday said that AAP MP Bhagwant Mann’s appointment as state party chief showed that Delhi-based party leaders had not learnt any lessons from the defeat in the state. They were continuing with the same non-serious approach they had before the polls, he said.

 “Party chief   apparently did not trust   leaders and left everything in the hands of his subordinates from Delhi. This has led to frittering away of a great opportunity of a change in the state when there was lot of scope for it,” said Bhaur, who is earlier SGPC general secretary.
 
 Kejriwal had visited his residence in   on February 17, to induct him in the party and also announced his appointment as senior vice-president. “I had not asked for any post but he announced it but no written communication was ever sent to me in this regard,” he said.
 
 He held that it was not just defeat of Kejriwal and his party but a common dream of the youth, NRIs and the right thinking people of Punjab had been shattered. “Delhi leaders got into small games and the opportunity was lost,” he quipped.
 
 “Mann’s has serious image issues even as he is a crowd puller. Kejriwal may have a compulsion to placate Mann due to the apprehension that he could desert the party but people of Punjab don’t have any compulsion to accept him. This has also become clear from the controversy it generated within the party,” he said.
 
 “Mann does not have the image of a serious leader as compared to Captain Amarinder Singh or Parkash Singh Badal. A leader of big stature should have been appointed to the post for acceptability among people and cadres,” he argued.
 
 “If they had handled the issue properly, the situation would not have arisen for   to resign. His removal has once again affirmed the impression of use and throw as earlier they removed Sucha Singh Chhottepur,” said Bhaur, who had remained a dissenting voice in SGPC and resigned from the SAD after Bargari sacrilege and firing incident.
 
 He revealed that after the polling results party leadership lost contact with him. “The same treatment has been meted out to quite a few other prominent Sikh faces from the state and a general impression has gone among all of them that this was party’s general approach,” he said.
 
 “Once Sanjay Singh met me in Delhi and asked that why had I not come to Nakodar rally, which was held before results. I told him that I was not even informed or invited. He said that it would never happen again but the same approach continued later also. I was announced state VP but never consulted for important decisions pertaining to Punjab,” Bhaur said.
 
