NAGPUR: In view of the provisions of the new ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’, the   nominated its top officials for the post of four deans. NU preferred highly experienced persons for the posts and granted them additional charge. 

 As per the new legislation, all the faculties are to be merged into just four and universities are supposed to appoint deans as full-time salaried officers.
 
 Accordingly, NU appointed former pro-vice chancellor   to head the faculty of Science and Technology, former pro-VC Vinayak Deshpande would head Commerce and Management faculty, law college principal Shrikant Komawar would look after Humanities and Rajendra Kakde would be in-charge of Interdisciplinary Sciences faculty. 
 
 While Yenkie was LIT director for some time, Deshpande is a well-known economist and Komawar is an law expert who also worked as director of NU Board of College and University Development (BCUD). 
 
 “All of them have been given additional charge, so we don’t’ need to pay them extra. They would be, however, granted full powers of deans as mentioned in the new act. They would also be given new offices at NU’s administrative block in front of Maharajbagh. They would continue till the next vice-chancellor decides on their term,” VC SP Kane told TOI. He added that their appointment would be officially made from Saturday.
 
 Interestingly, it was Kane who first mooted this proposal during a meeting of VCs, Pro-VCs and other stakeholders conducted by the   in Mumbai, last month. The meeting was held to apprising them of the implementation of new Act. Registrars, BCUD directors, and directors and joint directors for higher and technical education, also attended the meeting.
 
 “For making new appointments, we need to follow a long procedure like issuing advertisements and conducting interviews. It would have delayed other important works like conducting the polls. So, we’ve decided to appoint deans from among existing officials. As the deans would have lots of work, we preferred experienced persons to head those faculties,” the VC said.
 
 The state government officially notified the new legislation from March 1, as first reported by TOI. Accordingly, the universities would have separate boards for IT, ‘innovation, incubation & enterprise’, and ‘national & international linkages’ along with new faculty of interdisciplinary studies. It has made new accounting method mandatory for all universities for bringing transparency.
 
