JAISALMER: A Central team visited the   of   on Friday and Thursday respectively. During visit, members of the team spoke to villagers, farmers, public representatives and took stock of the damaged crops, condition of gaushalas, availability of water tanks and fodders. 

 Barmer district collector Sudhir Sharma and additional district collector O P Vishnoi apprised the team of arrangements related to disaster management, average rainfall, availability of fodder and water supply in drought hit areas. Sharma told the team that despite draught situation, cattle camp is being run and adequate water is being supplied in affected areas through tankers. Disaster management related activities are run from April to July 15. 
 
 The team took information about the expenses of last year’s in drought relief works. Later, the team asked suggestions from public representatives for relief management in case of drought. Many public representatives gave their suggestions.
 
 Barmer MLA Mewaram Jain asked to run maximum cattle camps along with permanent solution of drinking water. Jain said permanent solution for   can be done by digging tube well and hand pumps. Baytu MLA Kailash Choudhary also emphasized on increasing the time period of cattle camps being run presently, in order to protect cattle. Chauhatan MLA Tarun Rai Kaga also reiterated the same thing.
 
 Sheo MLA Manvendra Singh apprised the team of problems in scarcity hit areas. The Central team comprised assistant commissioner Sujit Naik, director Punit Kumar Mittal, DGM Anil Dhillon and assistant director Rakesh Kumar. At circuit house, the team enquired about activities of MGNREGS and also took information about additional employment being provided to labourers who completed 100-day work under MGNREGS as per the Centre and state directions.
 
 An inter-ministerial Central study team Friday visited villages in scarcity hit and drought affected areas and took stock of the situation by meeting public representatives and villagers and took feedback about what activities needed to provide relief.
 
 The team visited Damodara gram panchayat, Roopsi panchayat’s Lodrava and Lathi panchayat’s Bhadaria village and reviewed drought situation. District collector Matadeen Sharma, MLA Chotu Singh Bhati, Pokhran MLA Shaitan Singh Rathore and aditional district collector K L Swami were part of the team.
 
 Bhati said livestock is main means of livelihood in Damodara and Lodhrva and situation of cattle raisers’ is not good due to drought. He told team members that cattle camps and gaushalas along with fodder depots should be opened with help from the Centre’s and transportation of drinking water is also badly needed. The team held a meeting with villagers at Atal Seva Kendra in Damodara and took stock of the situation. Sarpanch Sangeeta and others told the team members that they are not in position to save their livestock due to drought therefore, Centre should provide assistance and open cattle camps at the earliest.
 
 Team member Mittal said they will submit the report to the Centre and visit fields at Lodrava where there were no crops due to scarcity. The team visited the guashala in Bhadria and held a meeting with villagers, in which MLA Rathore said condition of drought is severe in Pokhran area and in such situation it is the responsibility of the government to provide drinking water and save the livestock in priority basis. 
 
