NOIDA: The   welcomed   (GST) exemption on housing society Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) on Friday. Earlier, on July 8 the Federation of   (FONRWA) had written to Arun Jaitley, Union Finance Minister seeking exemption of GST for housing society RWAs.

 “We had taken up the cause of GST exemption RWAs with Arun Jaitley, chairman, GST council who’s also Union Finance Minister. We are pleased to inform that our request has been agreed to and it has been clarified that supply of services by RWAs to its members through reimbursement or share of contribution up to Rs 5000 per member per month along with goods for the common use of all members in a housing society will be excluded from GST. Further, in case the aggregate turnover of an RWA is Rs 20 lakh in a financial year, then such supplies would also be exempted from GST even if the charges per member are more than Rs 5000,” said A N Dhawan, secretary general FONRWA.
 
 According to Dhawan, the said exemption makes the tax burden lower on RWAs as they would now be entitled to Input Tax Credit (ITC) in respect of taxes paid by them on capital goods like water pumps, generators, lawn furniture etc. and input repair and maintenance services. “The ITC of Value Added Tax (VAT) and central excise on goods and capital goods was not there in the pre-GST period and these were part of the cost to the RWA. Apart from this, no change has been made to services provided by the RWAs for its members after GST came into being,” said Dhawan who has sent a letter thanking Jaitley on behalf of FONRWA.
 
 On July 8, FONRWA had written to Jaitley urging exemption of GST for RWAs stating that resident welfare associations are mainly non-profit entities, registered under the Societies Registration Act and mutually formed by the individuals residing in housing colonies and apartments, with a view to look after common facilities such as security, sanitation and maintenance of the common areas out of the mutually collected subscriptions from its member residents. “In that aspect, RWAs do not carry any business activity or activity for profit, as all RWAs are formed for the residents and by the residents. Hence we requested relief from GST to RWAs and residents of the nation at large,” said Dhawan.
 
 A copy of the letter was also sent to Noida MP Mahesh Sharma and MLA Pankaj Singh.
 
