NAGPUR: In a bid to block cash deals of all kinds, the   indirectly applies a limit of Rs10,000 on capital expenditure through cash by a business too. If any asset above Rs10,000 is purchased by paying in cash, the business cannot claim depreciation on it. If part payment is made in cash over Rs10,000 then the allowable depreciation will be reduced proportionately, said chartered accountants after reading fine print of the Bill.

 Irrespective of the Rs3 lakh bar on cash spending, the finance bill has reduced the limit of revenue expenditure in cash to Rs10,000 as against Rs20,000 last year to allow a deduction from taxable income. Till last  , there was no specific bar for capital expenditure. This meant spending on purchasing capital assets could be done in cash though there was a bar on revenue expenditure. 
 
 Funds spent on day-to-day operations like salary, interest, purchase of raw material. or depreciation are treated as revenue expenditure. Capital expenditure for buying fixed assets used to run the business such as land, machinery or vehicles. Though spending on this head cannot be deducted from taxable income, depreciation on capital assets is allowed. 
 
 “Once the bill is passed, depreciation will be not allowed if the assets have been acquired by paying cash over Rs10,000,” said  , a chartered accountant and president of   (NCCL). He said this was over and above the limit of Rs3 lakh on cash expenses.
 
 “Normally businesses prefer to buy assets through cheque they could be shown in the books and depreciation claimed. The move may, however, hit the construction industry. Here the buildings are treated as capital assets and labour wages that go into construction, is included as capital expenditure. The wages to labour contractors are paid in cash. Now it may have to be done through cheque,” said  , a chartered accountant.
 
 “There was a supreme court ruling that the limit on cash spending under Section 40A (3) of the   Act does not apply on capital expenditure. The finance bill now nullifies its impact,” said Jogani.
 
