KOCHI: Out of 326 schools in the district, 136 schools (42%) recorded   in the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) board examination, with all the students qualifying for higher studies. 

 "We worked hard so that our students could do well in the examination. We conducted night classes in the last few months. We brought our students to school, taught them from 4pm to 8pm and also provided them with dinner," said PJ Benny, headmaster, St George's High School in  , where 98 students appeared for the examination and all of them qualified for higher studies. 
 
 Several schools in Ernakulam had conducted before and after school classes. 
 
 A few school officials said the examination was evaluated strictly. "Only the students we expected to do exceptionally well were the ones who scored A+ grades," said Jilu Varghese, chief superintendent of St John's Syrian HSS in Muvattupuzha.
 
 With 98.85% students gaining eligibility for higher studies, Muvattupuzha education district came in a close second to Pathanamthitta, which secured the highest percentage of students qualifying for the higher studies (98.86%). 
 
 In Ernakulam, Aluva and Kothamangalam, 94.45%, 96.9% and 96.96% students respectively became eligible for higher studies. 
 
 "Schools in Lakshadweep were counted under Ernakulum education district. That was the reason why the Ernakulam district fared low. And the eligibility percentage in schools in Lakshadweep are about 70 percent," said CA Santosh, deputy director of education (DDE), Ernakulum. He said the schools in Lakshadweep did badly due to poor infrastructure. 
 
 Students have fared poorly in Mathematics when compared to other subjects with a significant number of students securing a   below D+. Out of the 35,868 students who appeared for the exam in Ernakulum district, only 2,066 secured an A+. Sr. Margie, principal of St. Theresa's School said, "Both teachers and students were really uncomfortable with the sudden change of textbooks and with the new model of question paper. Teachers found it difficult to teach as they didn't know from which part of the text, the questions were to be expected. They had no previous year   to refer to." DDE Santosh said the lowest number of students secured A+ in Mathematics because the exam was repeated for all students under controversial circumstances and that most students had to appear for it when they were least expecting it. 
 
