PANAJI:   is   and it is warming faster than all other oceans as it is hemmed in by the Asian land mass. 

 “We are more worried, because the Indian ocean is warming much faster than other oceans. That is one of the questions that we ask, why is it so? We don’t have an answer as of now. But the uniqueness of Indian Ocean is that it is landlocked on the northern side,” M Ravichandran, director of National Centre for Antarctic and Ocean Research, told TOI. 
 
 “The heat that is put in the water is stagnating and goes on building up. That is one of the reasons we suspect. If you see the climate warming scenario, the extremes are increasing at a much faster rate,” Ravichandran said citing his studies. He and his colleagues relied on satellite observations and a global network of floating buoys, which chart  , salinity currents and other data to arrive at the findings. In   and Atlantic Ocean, the atmospheric heat captured over the equator is pushed towards the poles. But he said heat being released from the Indian Ocean is at a slower pace since 2004.
 
 A study by Pune-based Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in 2014 showed that the western tropical Indian Ocean has been warming for more than a century, at a rate faster than any other region of the tropical oceans. The research paper said the western tropical Indian Ocean was the largest contributor to the overall trend in the global mean sea surface temperature.
 
 “The main thing is that when extreme events increase, the effect is seen in the polar regions. There is another consequence of heavy rainfall. The rain warms up the atmosphere. Whenever there is rainfall, there is heat released into the atmosphere. And this heat moves to the polar region and gets submerged in the poles and increases the pace of melting. Indirectly you can say that whenever there is a rainfall, you will have more glacial melt,” Ravichandran said.
 
 Ravichandran said while melting glaciers accounted for 70% of the global rise in sea levels, expansion of water due to heat was the biggest cause of rise in sea levels in the Indian Ocean. Marine scientists and researchers reckon sea levels primarily rise due to expansion of water due to atmospheric heat and melting of ice sheets and glaciers.
 
 “Globally, glacier melt is a bigger reason, around 70% of rise in levels and heat accounts for 30%. In the Indian Ocean region, the inverse is true. You can say that nearly 70% of the rise is due to expansion of water. The present increase in sea level is part of a decadal oscillation. We are now in the increasing phase and that is why we are seeing high sea levels. It is almost double the global sea level,” the 51-year-old director said.
 
