CHENNAI: Three months after companies were invited to take up a contract to build a foot overbridge in front of  ,   has again called for tenders. The work for the overbridge, which was expected to begin in December, will now begin in March.

 In November 2016, Cmrl invited companies to build a foot overbridge in two locations at Alandur metro station and across  . Now, they have called for a re-tender.
 
 Metro rail officials said the companies which applied for the contract did not meet the requirements of metro rail. Hence the re-tender was made. 
 
 Cmrl has reduced the deposit amount for the work but there is no change in the features of the foot overbridge. It will have escalators and elevators for the convenience of pedestrians.
 
 Commuters have been facing hardships without a foot overbridge at GST Road near Alandur metro station ever since the first stretch of Chennai   from Koyambedu to Alandur was inaugurated in June 2015.
 
 People put themselves at risk and jump over the centre median at GST Road which is near the landing of Kathipara flyover to get to the Alandur metro station. Motorists also find it difficult to slow down for commuters crossing the road when they drive down the flyover at breakneck speed. 
 
 The existing pedestrian subway is located away from the metro station and is not well maintained. Women commuters in particular do not take the subway after dark as it is dimly lit and end up crossing the busy GST road during evening peak hours.
 
 Alandur metro station is the hub for changeovers. Passengers heading from Koyambedu towards the airport shift corridors at Alandur metro station if they miss the direct train, which runs once every hour. The station also connects Little Mount station with the airport and Koyambedu. 
 
 The station will see more commuters as the Shenoy Nagar-Koyambedu underground line will also be opened this year. But the station lacked the connectivity needed for a hub including the foot overbridge that would give commuters easy access to it.
 
 
