NEW DELHI: The   is ready to submit to the Centre a set of recommendations intended to bring in revolutionary changes in   jurisprudence which, if implemented, would help the release of the poor among the over 2.38 lakh undertrial prisoners languishing in jails for years. 

 The commission’s report on amendments to bail provisions has been finalised and the radical recommendations, if accepted by the government and implemented, would make true the Supreme Court’s 40-year-old ruling in the State of Rajasthan Vs Balchand case, in which Justice Krishna Iyer had said in September 1977: “The basic rule may perhaps be tersely put as bail, not jail.” 
 
 The commission, headed by Justice B S Chauhan, examined Section 436A of the criminal procedure code, which provides that an undertrial, accused of offences that attract a maximum imprisonment of seven years, should be released on serving half the sentence.
 
 The panel recommends that the period of incarceration be reduced to one-third of the maximum punishment. This means, if an undertrial is accused of an offence attracting a maximum six-year sentence, he would be released on bail after two years in jail. 
 
 For other offences, which attract a maximum jail sentence of over seven years but excluding those punishable with death, an undertrial should be released on serving half the maximum sentence, commission sources said. 
 
 The commission also suggests that the HCs must frame rules making it mandatory for trial courts to hear bail applications of accused within a week of their filing. Urgency in deciding bail applications was stressed recently by the SC’s social justice bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and U U Lalit, which found that many poor   continue to be lodged in jail despite getting bail because of their inability to furnish bail bonds with sureties. 
 
 “Poverty cannot be a ground to keep in custody an accused who is unable to furnish bail bond,” the SC had said. The commission suggests that “in case an accused is granted bail and is unable to furnish sureties within 30 days and moves an application for varying the bail conditions, the trial court must hear this expeditiously and pass appropriate orders”. 
 
 Trial courts’ insistence for local sureties is a big impediment to bail for those caught for petty offences. The commission recommends that “outside sureties may be accepted after verification of their antecedents...” 
 
 However, the commission is of the view that those who are accused of economic offences may not be shown the same leniency. The panel was surprised to find no challenge to the constitutional validity of Section 437A of CRPC, which mandates an acquitted person to furnish a bail bond with sureties to undertake before the trial court that he would appear before higher courts in case his acquittal was challenged. It has concluded that the section needs amendment to provide that “after acquittal... (a person’s) personal bond may serve the purpose”.
 
