KOLKATA: A middle-aged man weighing 92kg died of cardiac arrest after climbing up the stairs of a four-storey high waterslide twice in succession at Aquatica last week. His wife lodged a police complaint the same evening and on Wednesday, it was drawn into an FIR citing negligence on part of the park authorities — who allegedly did not provide the man with first-aid — and doctors at a Rajarhat nursing home where he was taken in an unconscious state and later declared dead.

 The incident happened on May 16 when Ajay Shah, 47, the branch manager of a Delhi-based tyre manufacturing company, went to the water theme park in Rajarhat with his wife, two children and the family of his sister-in-law. According to Ajay’s wife Sheetal, he and her sister’s husband were asked to sit on an air-filled raft with handles while riding the Raft Slide and her husband got stuck in one of the multiple meandering curves.
 
 Raft Slide is a waterslide in which one has to climb a height of around four storeys using stairs and then sit on rubber rafts to make their way down a plastic slide, negotiating curves and loops on the way, to end up in a shallow pool in a splash.
 
 “My husband got stuck and my brother-in-law came walking down the slide that did not have much water to slide through. I sought help from the park authorities but they refused. I then climbed the ride myself from the lower end and pulled him down,” said Sheetal, a homemaker.
 
 She said Ajay had climbed up the slide and come down just minutes earlier when the brother-in-law insisted him to go for it once more. The family alleged he was already huffing when he had reached the top and even before he could settle down in the front of the raft, the keeper pushed them down and he ran out of breath at the suddenness. A placard outside the ride also says a person with disability or any sort of ailments like heart trouble and acrophobia and pregnant women are barred from taking the ride.
 
 “My brother-in-law is also weighs above 80kg. Why did the guard allow the two of them to sit together? My husband had insisted for another rider with him but they didn’t listen,” said Sheetal. She further added when they brought him down, the park authorities did not provide them with doctors or medical facilities. Only after they threatened to call police did the park officials took them to a nursing home, she alleged. “We were still in our swimming costumes and the park authorities just stood there, without lifting a finger. Later, they took us to a nursing home where the doctors did not treat my husband at all and declared him dead after 20 minutes. We took an ambulance and moved to another private hospital on EM Bypass where a doctor said he had died possibly on the way, 20 minutes earlier,” the widow said. The preliminary post-mortem report says he died of cardiac arrest.
 
 The woman submitted a complaint of negligence at Kolkata Leather Complex police station that evening and the officers sent the body for autopsy. “We have started a case of death by negligence against the park and the doctors of Khusi nursing home,” said an officer at Lalbazar.
 
 Park authorities claimed their guards had stopped Shah from taking the ride but he had insisted. “During the ride, his hands were off the handles and he fell out on the slide face-first and got stuck. We helped the family by not wasting time and taking him to the nearest nursing home. Cops have already questioned us twice. We can even provide CCTV footage if required,” said  , the manager (operations) at the park.
 
 
