JHANSI: With the fourth phase of elections inching closer, political heat can be felt in Jhansi, the nerve centre of Bundelkhand. A rally was addressed by   and Akhilesh Yadav at the GIC ground here on Sunday. 

 Rahul Gandhi said prime minister is a trader. Hitting out at Modi, Rahul said, "Wo aap logo ke saath sauda karte hain har cheez ka. He will always say give votes and then I will give you this. The PM is now wooing the farmers by saying that he will waive off their loans if   comes in power in UP. Modiji could have done it because he is the Prime Minister. But he waited for the elections as he wanted to trade with you."
 
 Supporting his statement Rahul said that he had gone to meet Modi with his delegation and requested to waive of the loans but the PM kept mum and gave no commitment. He further said that Akhilesh and his friendship have changed the mood of Modi. Earlier, he used to be in a happy mood but suddenly that happiness has vanished from his face.
 
 Commenting on his 'Make in India' policy, Rahul said that on one hand he will publicize his theory of make in India and on the other hand he is passing on big tenders to foreign countries. He further said that Modi is favouring a handful of rich people, who are holding maximum portion of the money of this country. Giving example of Vijay Mallya, Rahul said that Modi has waived of his loans worth Rs 12,000 crore but he is not ready to help the poor. "Modi is tired of roaming around various countries. Let us give him some relaxation by forming our government in UP and permanent relaxation in 2019 by forming our government at the Centre."
 
 Akhilesh, who joined Rahul after 30 minutes, said, "I would ask 'achhe din wale' have they ever done a single 'achha' work here. With MPs and minister from this state, their contribution towards the development of UP is nil. I will ask those who are doing 'Mann ki Baat' to do some 'kaam ki baat'." On demonetization, Akhilesh said 'note bandi' has made the entire country stand in a queue so much that in a particular case, a woman gave birth to a child in a queue. "BJP did not take note of it, I offered Rs 2 lakh as compensation to the woman."
 
 Speaking on the alliance, Akhilesh said, "This is not just an alliance of two parties but an alliance of youth power. Let the third and fourth phase of elections be over and many of the senior BJP leaders have to get their blood pressure checked."
 
