JAIPUR:   (JMC) will serve notices to 1.26 lakh defaulters of urban development (UD) tax, as a final ultimatum, after which it will block the   of property owners. To start with, it has prepared a list of 695 defaulters who owe more than Rs five lakh of dues. 

 The list comprise Central and state government offices, properties of erstwhile royal family of Jaipur, media houses, marriage homes, hotels and influential private owners. As per the figures released by JMC, 1.26 lakh people have not paid their UD taxes which amounts to Rs 700 crore. However, it is just 695 people who owe Rs 350 crore, almost half of the total amount.
 
 “We can’t allow few people to affect the developmental work for rest of 48-50 lakh people. Their dues have been mounting for several years and we will soon serve them a final notice in next two-three days. After that, we will have to block their sewerage lines out of compulsion until they pay,” said mayor  . He maintained that those unwilling to pay taxes should also not use facilities of JMC. 
 
 Highlighting that JMC desperately needs funds to carry out cleanliness of the city, construct roads, develop parks and maintain street lights, the mayor said, “Our intention is not to cause inconvenience to anyone but it is our commitment to provide best services to the people of Jaipur and we will do so”. 
 
 According to JMC officials, all nonpayers have already been served notices earlier, while yet one more will be issued, firstly to those having dues of Rs 5 lakh and above. After that they will have 15 days of time to pay the money. 
 
 “To encourage defaulters in paying their dues, government has already announced scheme where full penalty and interest on due amount will be waived off on UD tax while on house there is a relaxation of 100% on penalty, interest and 50% on principal amount” said the official.
 
 Among 695, major defaulters include, state government own departments like  , RUIDP, Rajasthan Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Limited, bus stand. There are temples, NGOs, media organizations and jewellers along with properties of the erstwhile royal family. Hotels, resorts and marriage homes, some owned by the politicians too are among the biggest defaulters.
 
 
