LUDHIANA: Having failed in achieving the target of sterilizing 25,000   on time,   has decided to extend the contract for the   to more than three months. While there’s no reduction in the number of stray dogs, the number of dog bite cases is rising every day. 

 In 2015, the MCL hired a Hyderabad-based firm for this project, which started on February 25, 2015. The company was supposed to sterilise 25,000 stray dogs in two years. In the first year, they could sterilise 11,057 stray dogs. From the next year, till now, the number of sterilised dogs is 10,943. A total of 22,000 stray dogs were operated on. 
 
 The contract with the company was to end this month but since they have not achieved the target, officials have decided to give them three months. 
 
 Meanwhile, officials have also prepared another proposal to sterilize more than 25,000 stray dogs. According to them, the number of stray dogs has increased to 50,000 over two years and they have to continue the project in future. 
 
 Project in-charge, MCL Dr Y P Singh said the company is operating on almost 1,000 stray dogs in one month. But the number of stray dogs is also increasing gradually. He said they have given the firm an additional three months. Meanwhile, they will also float tenders to sterilise more dogs in view of increasing cases of dog bite. 
 
 According to senior medical officer at the civil hospital, Dr Surinder Gogna, they receive between 50 and 150 cases of dogbite on an average and they provide free vaccination to patients. He said they are catering to cases from the entire district and half of the cases are being reported from localities within the MC limits. 
 
 The stray dog menace has left residents hassled. In a few areas, the proble, has assumed serious proportions. A resident of Rajguru Nagar, Bring Mohan Kalia complained of a pack of dogs in the market area that barked at passers-by. He said since children are in danger of being bitten, they have stopped sending children out to play. 
 
 A resident of Haibowal, Veena Kapoor said stray dogs create a nuisance by barking at night and biting people. She urged the MC to solve the problem at the earliest. 
 
