CHANDRAPUR: A   gutted 29 houses in  , located inside the core zone of  , on Monday afternoon. While   were reported in the blaze, around a dozen cattle were killed. The fire broke out after massive sparking (short circuit) in the supply wire at an electricity pole while the entire village was busy in a marriage celebration.

 Reports said the sparks flying from the short circuit set a thatched cattle shed in the adjacent house afire. The fire spread with the wind and devoured houses one after the other. By the time people came to know about the fire, a bunch of houses were ablaze, said local sources.
 
 With no fire tenders at hand deep in the jungle, villagers alerted TATR administration and rushed to douse the fire by throwing water with whatever utensils they could get. Sarpanch Kailash Kumre said 29 houses were gutted in the fire. The inferno was brought under control by 5.30pm with the help of three fire engines summoned from Mul and Bhadrawati municipal councils.
 
 Fortunately, most people were at the marriage ceremony, so there was no human casualty. Some 8-10 cattle sheds were destroyed, but since it was day time, most of the cattle too were out for grazing or in the fields. However, 10 cattle tethered in the sheds died in the blaze, Kumre said.
 
 Kumre said all 29 houses were completely destroyed in the fire and nothing could be salvaged. More than 100 villagers have been rendered homeless. There was, however, no effect of the fire on Tadoba forest since there is a large buffer of agricultural fields between village and the forest.
 
 Bhadrawati tehsildar Kumawat, deputy director (core) KS Mankar, and a fire engine from Bhadrawati reached the village at around 4pm. Two more fire engines were summoned later from Mul municipal council to help douse the fire, said district president of Prahar organization Pradeep alias Pappu Deshmukh, who rushed over from Chandrapur.
 
 Deshmukh informed the administration to raise an alarm. He said a grocery shop owned by Govinda Sidam, all the harvested grains stacked in front yard of Anandrao Sidam, Manohar Kove and Devidas Sidam, along with their houses, were destroyed in the fire.
 
 The Tadoba administration has maintained that fire tending in the village is not their responsibility, however, out of moral responsibility foresters of TATR were sent for fire tending and rescue work. FDCM, which shoulders the responsibility of fire protection in TATR, too has maintained that fire tending in revenue village in TATR is not their responsibility.
 
 Rantalodhi is one of the only two villages left inside the core area of TATR. There are 162 houses in the village, with the villagers fiercely opposed to rehabilitation. In April 2010, a similar fire had gutted 18 houses in the village.
 
 
