Pune: Rasila Raju O P, the slain young software engineer, had applied for a transfer to Bengaluru, but the company turned her down. Had she been transferred, she would still have been alive, said her father Raju on Monday. 

 Raju had rushed to Pune after he got a phone call late on Sunday night. He said he found it difficult to believe that a security guard killed his daughter, and said he suspects the involvement of other security officers. 
 
 He said that it is not possible for a security guard to kill his daughter and some other security officers might be behind the murder. “Why and how was she working all alone in the office on Sunday?” he said.
 
 Raju, an ex-serviceman now employed with   department in Kerala, said Rasila had applied for a transfer to Bengaluru as soon as she joined the office in Pune. “However, company did not transfer her. During one of our conversations, she told me she can get transferred to Bengaluru if she can produce a medical certificate stating that her father is ill,” Raju said.
 
 “But faking a medical certificate was not a good idea, so we dropped the plan,” he said.
 
 According to Raju, three days ago, Rasila had called him and told him she had no hope of securing a transfer. If the company had transferred her, he said, Rasila would still be alive. “Last month, she had come home where she told us she was also being troubled by some seniors in her office,” he said.
 
 The family stays in Payambra, a small village in Kozhikode district, Kerala. Rasila completed her schooling at  , and later joined an engineering college in Kottayam where she completed her BTech. Her elder brother stays in Abu Dhabi. her mother had passed away four years ago.
 
 ‘She was a quiet, cheerful person’
 
 From the day she arrived in Pune, six months ago, Rasila had been staying at the Govinda paying guest facility, popularly known as Govinda PG, in Hinjewadi Phase-I. Anil Reddy, manager of the PG, told TOI that Rasila had shared the room with five other women, all of whom work at Infosys. “Rasila was always kept by her work. Other than her roommates, she never mingled with others,” Reddy said.
 
 Rasila was living in a three-bedroom apartment with her roommates. “She was a quiet, cheerful person,” Reddy said. 
 
 Reddy added that Rasila had not opted for the food facility in his guesthouse. “She used to have her dinner in the company or outside,” Reddy said.
 
 
