JALANDHAR: Four days after a representation was sent to the   (EC) urging it to immediately stop the   from appealing to its followers to vote for the  ,   (DEO) Bathinda sought “any proofs about it” after the polling got over on Saturday evening.

 Nawanshahr-based activist Parvinder Singh Kitna had sent a representation to EC, Punjab’s chief electoral officer and Bathinda deputy commissioner, who is also the DEO, on January 31. He had urged them to immediately stop the dera from making any appeal to its followers as it would be “violation of Representation of Peoples Act as well as against the spirit of a recent Supreme Court judgment that it was illegal to seek votes in the name of religion, caste, race, community or language”.
 
 “I did not hear anything from the EC or the CEO Punjab four days and it was only on Saturday evening, when the polling was already over, that I received a call from office of DC Bathinda asking to send proofs of any such appeal. I then also received a mail asking to send any proofs of any appeal by the dera,” Kitna told TOI on Sunday.
 
 “I had sent the representation even before a diktat was issued by the dera but the EC machinery failed to react during all this time,” he alleged.
 
 In his representation, Kitna had written, “As per news reports in various newspapers the political wing of Dera Sacha Sauda is going to appeal to its followers to vote and support a particular political party in Punjab Vidhan Sabha elections. The dera head Sh Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh said that the decision would be taken shortly. It may be noted that the candidates of various political parties visited this dera seeking votes of its followers.”
 
 “The appeal of this dera will be violating provisions of clause 123, 2 (II) of The Representation of People Act, 1951”, he argued while reproducing the provisions. He also cited from the official website of ECI which prohibited any appeal by any religious or spiritual leader to its followers.
 
 “The dera should be stopped immediately from announcing such decision. As the Election Commission is acting tough against candidates and even getting cases registered wherever they have indulged in violation of model code or the RPA, in this case also EC should take immediate action. Kindly stop dera people or book them for doing such acts,” his representation read.
 
 
