PUNE: The dream of those aspiring for a career in the skies is set to get wings with the city-based   gearing up to give its cadets first hand flying experience.

 An aircraft grounded for maintenance since 2012 is all set to take off with the   (NCC) authorities initiating its maintenance work recently. A senior officer from the NCC, Group Headquarters (GP HQ), Pune, told TOI, “The maintenance of the aircraft has been taken up and it will be functional in coming months. A new engine will be fitted to the aircraft for longevity and maintaining its full capacity.“ A source in the NCC told TOI the solo Zenair CH 701 twin-seater aircraft was inducted to train the NCC cadets in 2002. After completing 1,500 hours of flying, it was grounded in 2012.
 
 The NCC GP HQ has a special air squadron for imparting theoretical and practical flying training to its cadets.“Since 2012, the cadets were not getting real exposure to flying because of unavailability of the aircraft. But they continued to perform well in exams because of detailed theoretical training,“ the source said.
 
 According to records, the squadron gets about 1,300 air cadets. A majority of them are from Junior Division (Standard VIII to IX students). The remaining are from Senior Division (first year to third year of graduation).
 
 The NCC sources are of the opinion that if the cadets get exposure to flying in the early stage of their academic studies, they will be mentally prepared for the armed forces in advance.
 
 “If someone gets real-time flying experience with an experienced   (IAF) pilot while studying in Standard VIII, it will certainly create a positive impact on his or her mind. It will certainly inspire them to seek a career in either IAF or Indian armed forces in the future,“ the officer added. According to the flying training curriculum, a cadet would seat with an IAF pilot. He or she would get to know the basic facets of flying right in the cockpit of the aircraft.
 
 “One cannot imagine what happens when you sit in the cockpit and fly. It requires a certain level of psychological preparations. All these basic aspects related to flying would get covered during the flying,“ the source said.
 
 The NCC sources stressed there was a good track record of cadets joining the IAF after completing their NCC training.
 
 A senior IAF officer welcomed the move, saying it would create a positive buzz among the cadets. “Every state should focus on such aspect so that more students join Indian armed forces. It is a positive development that the Maharashtra government has disbursed sufficient funds to the NCC to restart flying for the cadets,“ he added.
 
