Cleared/515 Words (Francis)

 Tirunelveli: Charging the Tirunelveli   of rude behaviour with the dean of Tirunelveli Medical College and Hospital after he was denied permission to use the hospital wall for his ‘Wall of Kindness’ initiative, the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) on Thursday staged a protest condemning his action.
 
 ‘Wall of Kindness’ is an initiative where people could deposit used clothes, shoes and books and those in need could collect them for free. The first wall close to the entrance of the collectorate was not big enough as more people deposited their used items. Moreover, did not have many takers. At this juncture, collector, Sandeep Nanduri took the initiative to establish one at the government hospital, which has around 10,000 to 12,000 inpatients everyday.
 
 Reliable sources told TOI that the dean Sithy Athiya Munavarah and a senior doctor met the collector, on Tuesday evening, when he expressed his desire to open the wall close to the mother and child block. The dean explained practical difficulties such as possibility of baby thefts as more people come close to the block. Recent baby thefts at Salem and Madurai government hospitals have already put pressure on deans of medical colleges, a protesting doctor said.
 
 Hospital authorities also explained that the wall could lead to infection as it is a place where used materials are deposited. They expressed concern that it could unintentionally turn out into a dump yard for infected items of patients getting discharged and spread to those using it. Having it close to the mother and child ward could make newborns and mothers vulnerable to infection, a senior doctor added. However, the collector was unconvinced by their replies and was allegedly engaged in a war of words with them.
 
 The TNGDA raised the issue as the main reason for the protest, in which the JACTO-GEO also joined hands. They alleged that the collector is known for his rudeness in the other meetings chaired by him and charged him with conduct review meetings with doctors at late hours affecting them.
 
 The protest came to an end only after the intervention of top health department officials from Chennai. Later, the doctors and students resumed work wearing black badges.
 
 Nanduri told TOI that students of the medical college evinced interest in having a ‘Wall of Kindness’ on their premises. “So I asked for a suitable place on the premises and discussed with the hospital dean. The dean explained practical difficulties and security issues and obtaining clearance from the director of medical education. They felt that I used uncourteous words, which is not true,” he said.
 
 The collector also said that he spoke to the dean on this issue and that the issue was set right. He charged the protesters for unnecessarily linking this incident with other issues with a motive. The collector said that a series of weekly review meetings with doctors and health authorities reduced dengue cases drastically over the last two months. “Most meetings ended before 7pm. A couple of them could have got delayed but it is part of the work of a government servant,” he added.
 
 
