It was a usual, busy Saturday evening at   (HKV) when Delhiites went about their weekend activities, be it enjoying EDM at a cafe or hanging out with friends. But there was a surprise waiting for the people – a flash mob by members of the   community. The members were seen dancing to dhol beats as curious passers-by looked on. At the end of the dance performance, there was a freeze mob, as the members held up placards which had messages like 'I am gay and I don't like shopping', 'I am gay and I love sports', 'We are a couple, we both are 'man' in this relationship'. The messages were intended towards breaking stereotypes that are associated with the community. The flash mob, Dance for Pride, was organised by an  , 'Those In Need', in association with a GBTQ dating app. 

  
  At this event at HKV, held on Saturday, members of the LGBTQ community danced to dhol beats, challenging the cliches associated with them (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 At the end of the flash mob, many people joined the members to shake a leg, celebrating and cheering for the rights of members of the LGBTQ community. Shreya Bhatia, co-founder of the NGO, told us, "Before this, we never got the chance to do any event with members of LGBTQ community. That is why, when representatives from this dating app asked us if we wanted to organise this event, we jumped at the idea and accepted the proposal. We chose HKV because of its crowd. We knew people here would be receptive."
 
 
  
  LOVE BEYOND GENDER:   (right) proposed to his gay partner, Pallav Maurya, at this event
 
 
  Pallav Maurya and Aarush Khatri, a gay couple who also participated in the flash mob, surprised everyone when Aarush went down on his knees and proposed to Pallav. "We are proud to be a part of this community and we are not ashamed of our sexuality. We are not different from others, this is our sexuality, so accept us. Agar hum focus mein nahi aayenge, toh log humein jaanenge kaise? They call us hijra, they do not even know who gay people are, that is why it is important to inform people about us," said Aarush. 
 
  Talking about the need for such events, Pallav added, "Straight people do not need any pride event to be accepted, they are already accepted in society. But we need events like these to spread awareness about the community. We live in a country, jahan pe jitna daboge, log utna dabayenge, tabhi dikhana padta hai, ye sab karna padta hai."
 
 
  
  Anwesh Sahoo, Mr Gay India 2016, also took part in the event (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 Soni Manchanda, a resident of Karol Bagh who had come to meet some of her friends at HKV, told us, "I was passing by when I saw some people dancing. I did not realise what was happening until I read the placards. I think the concept was really interesting, it is high time when we accept them."
 
  Rahul Seth, a resident of   who was visiting HKV, added, "I have never seen anyone dancing to dhol beats at HKV. We should appreciate the effort put in by the members of LGBTQ community and support them in their cause."
 
 
  
  At the end of the dance, LGBTQ members held up placards which carried messages challenging stereotypes (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
