CHANDIGARH: With 600 members of Haryanvi expatriates confirming their presence in the Pravasi Haryana Divas, now the khapland will have its presence in the Indian Diaspora abroad. Lord Raj Loomba, an elected member of House of Lords in England, is among the special invitees to the two-day Pravasi Haryana Divas celebrations starting from Tuesday at Gurugram.

  will formally inaugurate the event on Wednesday which will have a battery of ministers addressing delegates from India and abroad. Former Prime minister of Fiji   would be among the prominent faces from abroad to be part of the event. 
 
 According to information, the team from Haryana has identified around 15,000 families from state in different countries, out of whom around 5,000 have good influence in their area. These Haryanvi families have been traced in Africa, US, UK, Australia, Europe, New Zealand, Japan, Russia and China during chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s tour to these countries.
 
 The team headed by Ashvin Johar, global coordinator for Punjab and  , claimed that lot of work had been done and a lot was in the pipeline. “We had to work really hard to search for those having roots in Haryana. During the meeting and receptions of delegations from Haryana last year, we had a gathering of at least 1,000 families in the US, Canada UK, China and Russia. We are expecting that entire Haryanvi Diaspora will be in touch in the times to come,” said Johar.
 
 Those coming for the event were looking forward to reconnect with Haryana, he said. “Some of them will directly announce the adoption of villages for the purpose of development. Our efforts are on to identify more NRIs and PIOs of Haryana,” Ashwin said.
 
 Prominent among those to be awarded during the event include B K Chawla, father of astronaut Kalpana Chawla, who will be receiving the special achievement award posthumously for his daughter and singer Sonu Nigam and actors Randeep Hooda, Ritu and Vikash Sheoran in the art and culture category. They are among the 19 persons to be honoured with Haryana Gaurav Samman.
 
 Industrialists from other states too have expressed interest to join the event and decide about their investments in Haryana due to the road shows organized by the Haryana trades and industries minister Vipul Goel in Mumbai, Bengaluru, Kolkata and New Delhi over the past one month.
 
