VISAKHAPATNAM: The Union cabinet on Wednesday classified the Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE) at Vizag as an ‘Institute of National Importance’ on a par with IITs and   through an Act of Parliament.

 “The institute will have the governance structure as well as legal mandate to grant degrees in a manner similar to that enjoyed by IITs,” an official statement said. 
 
 The cabinet also approved Rs 655.46 crore as capital expenditure to set up IIPE and contribution of Rs 200 crore towards its Endowment Fund. This will be in addition to a contribution of Rs 200 crore from oil companies towards the Endowment Fund.
 
 The institute is currently operating from   campus and offering courses in B Tech petroleum engineering and B Tech chemical engineering. 
 
 The Andhra Pradesh government has identified and allotted 150 acres of land in Anthakapalli village in Sabbavaram mandal near Vizag city for setting up the permanent campus. 
 
 “IIPE-Vizag board was formed in April 2016 with representatives of all major energy public sector companies as members. However, the Union government has enabled us to independently function today through the Act. So far, we have received Rs 180 crore including Rs 125 crore from the oil sector industries and Rs 55 crore from the ministry of petroleum in the last one year. The infrastructure will be developed within three years and we have requested   (Vuda) to construct a compound wall. The land was given to us free of cost,” said professor VSRK Prasad, academics director of IIPE-Vizag.
 
 The institute is looking to increase the number of courses in 2018 and introduce PG and research programmes. “We have four faculty members and we will have 10 by June 2017 and by August another 10. We have 100 students and they are housed in a hostel close to Andhra University,” he said. 
 
 In February 4, 2016, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between IIPE and Andhra University to start the IIPE sessions during the academic year 2016-17. The MoU stands for a period of three years till IIPE sets up infrastructure at its own allotted premises. The academic mentorship of the young institution is being taken up by IIT-Kharagpur.
 
 
