NASHIK: The district administration has decided to give compensation to 10 of the 13 farmers who   in various parts of the district in the last two months. 

 A committee of the district administration, which met on Saturday, concluded that these 10 farmers ended their lives because of issues such as bad debt and crop failure. 
 
 The panel, however, rejected compensation to two farmers as their “case does not merit compensation.” A decision on one more case is pending. 
 
 Resident deputy collector Ramdas Khedkar said that that all 13 cases came up for hearing before the committee, which received reports from departments including revenue, agriculture, cooperatives, as well as police, and tallied the same to arrive at a decision. 
 
 A senior officer from the administration said, “Based on the reports, the committee admitted that 10 of the farmers had committed suicide because either there was crop failure, loan recovery notices by banks etc or issues related to under-pricing of the produce which led to a grim situation around the farmers forcing them to take the extreme step with no choice left.” 
 
 “Since the reasons were in tune with the state government norms, the district administration has decided to forward government aid accordingly,” the officer added. 
 
 The main criteria for compensation is whether the farmer had a loan and if banks were sending recovery notices to him. The second thing that is taken into consideration is whether there was history of failed crop or if the same failed to fetch the right price.
 
 “Compensation was rejected in   where there were no recovery notices by the bank for outstanding loans, the officer said.
 
 The bereaved families of ten farmers— Shivani Bodke (Sinnar), Chetan Vasal (Dindori), Mahadu Jadhav (Malegaon),   (Malegaon), Jagan Aher (Malegaon), Valmik Mulak (Niphad), Nitin Bedis (Baglan),   (Malegaon), Dinesh Sawant (Malegaon) and Manik Randive (Dindori) — will be given the government aid of Rs 1 lakh each.
 
 The kin of each of the 10 farmers will get Rs 30,000 in cash and Rs 70,000 will be invested in monthly income schemes in post office or  
 
