We often perceive   as educated women with a brash, hell-may-care attitude, who do not shy away from speaking — and making fun of — subjects that are considered taboo. Yet, they also find themselves at the receiving end of all-pervasive sexist comments. We spoke to female comics from across India on the sexism they face while on the job and their responses to it.

 
 People keep staring at my chest
 If I am the only girl in the lineup, others perceive me as a glam factor. In my first-ever show, I got a better response than the others, and the host said that because I am a girl, I got the extra attention. Another thing 
 that irks me is after a show, when people in the audience ask for a selfie, they tend to touch me awkwardly at times. Sometimes, when I am on stage, people keep staring at my chest. It is quite distracting and breaks my flow. So, I retort by saying that the show is happening here (pointing to her face) and not here (pointing to her chest). 
 
 
 I can sleep with you 50 times in under two minutes
 If I post something online that is even slightly controversial, I get comments threatening rape within minutes. I once posted the joke, ‘Government has banned porn, and Maggi. So, now, Indian men won’t be able to do anything in less than two minutes’. A young man responded by posting, ‘I can sleep with you 50 times in under two minutes’. I dealt with it by saying, ‘This says a lot about you’. I hope to get better responses from the younger generation, but that is clearly not the case. They think that the only way they can subjugate someone is through sexual dominance. During promotions, a show with female comics is called ‘chick comedy’, even when we are talking about death in hospitals, because, well, girls can only talk about girly things.
 
  
  
 
 Ladki, uske upar moti…
 I was performing in a Tier-2 city once, when an audience member said, ‘Ladki, uske upar moti’. I replied, ‘No, moti ladki, jo aapke upar kabhi nahi hogi’. The show was going OK till that point, but this remark made me win over the audience and the show went really well after that. The heckler, who was obviously embarrassed, left the show and never came back. After bad shows, uncles have come up to me and said, ‘It’s OK; this is just a hobby for you till you get settled. For men, it is a career and they have to be serious about it’. I confuse them by saying, ‘Yes, I am waiting for a suitable girl’. I also don’t like people calling me ‘sir’. Call me madam, or a human being, or just a species! Why ‘sir’?
 
  
  
 
 People expect comediennes to take sexist comments and jokes, just because of our job
 When I was new to the industry, I was subjected to a lot of sexist cr*p without knowing what it was. Being a female comic has been the worst investment for my love life. Some fellow comics are insecure about women getting work and resort to slut-shaming. Once, someone told me that I am getting shows only because I am a woman. I replied, ‘No one has paid me to be a woman’. They then shrug it off with, ‘Oh, come on, it’s just a joke. You can’t take a joke? Come on, you are a comic!’ And just like that, they take away my right to get offended. While commenting on my videos, people write things like, ‘You must have slept around with everybody’, and I think to myself, ‘If I had, I wouldn’t be just at this stage in my career today’. Then, there are others who say, ‘You do female humour, so you must be bashing men in your shows’. I am like, ‘No, they are not the centre of my universe. Plus, women are 50% of the population, so it is human humour’.
 
  
  
 
 You say jokes in a bar. Who will marry you?
 The most common thing I hear is, ‘You are too pretty to be a comic’, ‘You are pretty funny for a girl’, and ‘Should you be wearing that on stage?’ I hate it when the comments on my videos are more about my looks. It also irks me when a host introduces me as ‘cute’ instead of ‘funny’. How sexist is that? Other things that make my blood boil are when people ask me, ‘What it’s like to be a female comic?’ ‘Isn’t this a male-dominated field? Are you, like, boyish?’ Whenever I do a set on women drivers, not one guy has ever agreed that women are amazing drivers. But one incident takes the cake. My distant aunt once said, ‘Tum bar mein khade ho ke ashleel jokes sunati ho. Who will marry you?’ 
 
 
  I was asked to dress attractively on stage
 I don’t expect it from the audience, but I expect fellow comics to be inclusive. Comedians have suggested that I got a particular show because I am a woman. Then, audience members, who know nothing about comedy, end up giving me advice. I have had people telling me, ‘Have you been doing this for long? It looked like you were trying too hard’. That man then went on to say that I should dress more attractively while on stage. I wonder where they get the guts to say such things to women they barely know! 
 
 
 
