NASHIK: The Centre will not create a buffer   this summer owing to its  

 The Union government has been creating   for the past two years under the Price Stability Funds (PSF) in order to stabilise onion prices during scarcity and supply it to consumers at moderate rate.
 
 The buffer stock is created in April and May every year, but the government has no such plans for this year. Highly placed government sources told TOI that the Union ministry of agriculture and the ministry of consumers conducted a survey to check the possibility of the scarcity of the produce in coming few months.
 
 “The government has been creating buffer stock of onions under its PCF for the past two year through central agencies like NAFED and SFAC. But there is no such plan for this year as there has been bumper production of onions and there is no possibility of scarcity of onions in the coming future.” 
 
 In April and May 2015, the government had procured 12,000 tonne of onions through central agencies like National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED) and Small Farmers’ Agribusiness Consortium (SFAC) under the PSF to supply onions to consumers at moderate rates during scarcity.
 
 Of the 12,000 tonne, NAFED had procured 5,000 tonne, while SFAC had procured 8,000 tonne.
 
 Last year, in April and May, the government procured 17,000 tonne through Central agencies. Of which, SFAC procured 12,000 tonne, while NAFED had procured the remaining 5,000 tonne.
 
 When contacted NAFED director   said, “We have no communication from the government to procure onions under PSF. We are yet to receive demand from the government.” However, he refused to divulge any more details on the issue.
 
 In 2015, onion prices had skyrocketed to all-time high of Rs 5,700 per quintal on August 22 due to scarcity of onions and the government had to import onions to meet the demand despite the buffer stock of around 12,000 tonne that was created through central agencies like NAFED and SFAC.
 
 The retail prices of onions had touched to Rs 80 per kg in Nashik’s retail market and Rs 100 per kg in metro cities like Mumbai and Delhi. 
 
 While the kharif and late kharif crops are highly perishable with a shelf life of less than 25 days, the summer crop has a shelf life of six to seven months. The farmers also prefer storing onions with a hope of getting better prices.
 
 The summer crop is harvested in April and May, and caters to the market for the next five-six months until arrival of fresh kharif crop by October end. The kharif crop is harvested in October-November, while late kharif crops are harvested in December and January.
 
 The scarcity of onions is created if the supply of   is affected during the period from June to October. Hence, government had decided to create buffer stock of summer onions in April and May to deal with the scarcity during these five months.
 
