MANJESHWAR: Chief minister   continues to be haunted by crows. A crow that was fluttering over Siddaramaiah and Kerala chief minister   during an inaugural ceremony created a stir when it perched on a tree and proceeded to poop on Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah. 

 The two chief ministers were sharing the dais at the dedication of Gilivindu, the memorial for  , here on Thursday. They reached the dais soon after the inauguration of a cultural centre, auditorium, renovated residence of Govinda Pai and a bust of the poet. They were seated on the dais with former Union minister M Veerappa Moily, who is also chairman of the  . Many dignitaries, including the two chief ministers, were guests at the programme, which was held on an open air stage. 
 
 When Kerala CM Vijayan was delivering his inaugural address, a crow started fluttering over the stage and finally sat on a branch of a tree right above Siddaramaiah. Within no time, the bird’s droppings fell on the CM’s dhoti. The incident created a flutter and the CM sought help from people next to him. 
 
 Mangaluru City North MLA B A Mohiuddin Bava and former   chairman K Tejomaya rushed to help the CM. While Bava brought tissue paper, Tejomaya helped the CM clean the poop from his dhoti. Siddaramaiah’s security personnel too reached the stage and helped clean his spotless white dhoti. 
 
 It may be recalled that Siddaramaiah changed his Toyota Fortuner a few months ago after a crow sat on it near his official residence in Bengaluru. 
 
 
 
 
 Mangaluru: BJP workers, incensed at killings of BJP and Sangh Parivar activists in Kerala, staged a black flag demonstration against Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan here on Thursday. Vijayan was en route Thiruvananthapuram and had come to board a train from Mangaluru Junction railway station at Kankanady from Manjeshwar, where he had attended a programme with his Karnataka counterpart Siddaramaiah, to dedicate a memorial to Rashtrakavi Manjeshwar Govind Pai.
 
 Led by Mangaluru City South BJP unit president Vedavyas Kamath, the protesters waved flags at Vijayan‘s convoy as it rolled into the railway station premises. City police were out in strength to ensure that the protesters did not come within earshot of the Kerala CM and pinned them behind metal barricades put in place. The workers, who made no attempt to break through, were content with making their protest felt, even if the Kerala CM took no notice of it.
 
 Vedavyas said it is sad that ‘innocent’ BJP and RSS workers are being killed on a regular basis across Kerala in a spiral of political violence ever since the LDF government headed by Vijayan came to power. Blaming the tacit silence of Vijayan for this spiral, he said it is imperative that the LDF government gives due protection to BJP and Sangh Parivar workers and also ensures that the perpetrators of violence against the party and Parivar cadre are brought to book.
 
 Incidentally, the Union government granted ‘Y’ category security cover to four of its top BJP leaders in Kerala, following a complaint from the state unit of the party that there have been more than 400 attacks on its cadre and workers affiliated to the   in the neighbouring state last year.
 
