LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party appeared a divided house as 402 out of 403   voted to elect the   on Monday. SP’s Sultanpur MLA couldn’t turn up due to ill health while three MPs — CM Aditya Nath Yogi, deputy CM Keshav Maurya and Union minister Uma Bharati — sought special permission from the election commission to vote at the Vidhan Bhawan.

 As the voting began in the morning, the intra-family war in the SP that began last year came out in the open again. While former minister and Jaswantnagar MLA Shivpal Yadav openly claimed that he voted in favour of the NDA pick Ram Nath  , the camp of his nephew, former CM Akhilesh Yadav, stood by UPA’s candidate Meira Kumar, as announced earlier. 
 
 The cross-voting in the SP didn’t remain limited to Shivpal alone as he claimed that many other MLAs from the party, too, supported Kovind as per Netaji’s (Mulayam Singh Yadav) advise. When reminded of an ‘informal’ whip issued by the party to support Kumar, Shivpal quipped: “What whip? I wasn't even invited in the meeting.” BJP reaped the benefit of the divided SP with CM Aditya Nath Yogi thanking both Mulayam , who cast his vote in New Delhi, and Shivpal for supporting Kovind. 
 
 Independent MLA from Kunda, Raghuraj Pratap Singh alias Raja Bhaiyya, who was a minister in Akhilesh government, too, announced that he voted for Kovind. “I have a personal relation with Kovind and he is a very nice human being, “Kunda MLA said and added that there was nothing to hide and would tell Akhilesh also if needed. 
 
 Two other Independent MLAs Vijay Misra, who accompanied Shivpal, and Vinod Saroj, who accompanied Raja Bhaiyya, also claimed to have voted in favour of Kovind. Similarly, Vinod Saroj, another Independent MLA who accompanied Raja Bhaiyya, said he too voted for the former Bihar governor. 
 
 "People always like to go with the winner," Shivpal said after casting his vote. However, leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary tried to downplay the fear of cross-voting, saying: “There is a lot of difference between what one says what one does,” hinting that Shivpal may have voted for Kumar despite publicly claiming the contrary.
 
 Senior SP leader Azam Khan, who was accompanied by his son, first-time MLA Abdullah Azam Khan, however, hit out at Shivpal saying that till the time one was a member of the party, one should follow the party line. “Even I could not make it to party meetings due to various reasons, but came to know about the party stand through newspapers and have come to vote in favour of Congress-led Opposition's pick Meira Kumar,” he said.
 
 The voting for the   election came to an end at 6 pm at Tilak Hall of Vidhan Sabha. Samajwadi Party MLA from Isauli in Sultanpur could not vote due to ill-health. Four members, including mafia don and BSP's Mau MLA Mukhtar Ansari and Haraiyya MLA Ajay Singh came in ambulances. 
 
 Earlier, MLAs in large number queued up to cast their vote from 10 am itself. By 3 pm, over 90% of them had already voted. CM Yogi was one of the first to vote in Lucknow. 
 
 
