MEERUT: In a tragic end to a manhunt that lasted for several hours on Monday night, a Class X student at a private school in Meerut who had been kidnapped earlier in the day was found   at a farm in   area near his village.

  On Monday afternoon when Shiva Koswal (17) did not return from school, his sister Shikha called on his mobile phone. An unidentified person took the call and said that Shiva had been kidnapped and will be released if they pay Rs 45 lakh. Later, some residents of Shiva’s village, Navipur, about 10km from the city, informed his family that they had seen him return from school on his bicycle. They argued that even if he was kidnapped, he must be in close proximity. The teenager’s family and villagers began a frantic search and found his body in a nearby sugarcane field late in the night.
 
  The postmortem of Shiva’s body was conducted at 2 am on Tuesday, but his family refused to take the body till the killers were found. Meanwhile, police have assured them that the case would be solved within three days and are combing the area on foot and with drones for further clues.
 
  “A case has been registered against unknown persons under IPC sections 302 ( ) and 364 A (kidnapping for ransom) at Bhawanpur police station. On Tuesday, the teen’s family refused to cremate his body. It was only after SSP’s assurance that they performed the last rites. We will crack the case in three days,” said Kartar Singh, SHO, Bhawanpur police station.
  According to the FIR, Shiva’s sister Shikha called him at 3.30pm on Monday when he did not return from school. She was surprised to hear an unidentified man on the line who asked for a ransom of Rs 45 lakh and wanted the money to be delivered in the neighbouring state of Haryana.
 
  Sources said that Shiva’s kidnappers got a whiff of the manhunt and so shot him dead inside a sugarcane farm. A local had seen four men go inside the farm, after which the villagers surrounded the area. That was when they heard a gunshot.
 
  “Drone cameras are being used to check for clues. A water bottle, a shirt and a pair of slippers have been found from the spot. Some people have been detained for questioning and efforts are being made to arrest the culprits,” said Meerut SSP Manzil Saini.
