AMRITSAR: Former opening batsman turned politician Navjot Singh Sidhu is not wrapped in heavy coats like everyone else in the winter chill of Amritsar. On a Saturday morning, he is clad in his favourite black kurta and sleeveless jacket as he holds meetings in the lawn of his bungalow in the Holy City.

 In a serious discussion with Raj Kumar Verka, an MLA of his new party Congress, he readily draws up a plan for giving speeches in his constituency , Amritsar East.Many in Congress believe that his induction has given a much-needed fillip to the beleaguered party and that he can influence votes especially in Punjab's Majha region along the border with Pakistan due to his acceptance among both Hindus and Sikhs.
 
 But his former colleagues in BJP and   are constantly taking swipes at him, the latest being   who said, “Iske kitne maa aur baaap hain?". It was a comment over   chief calling Sidhu his political son.
 
 Sidhu hits back at Sukhbir's barbs as he recalls his childhood and insists that only his parents were his greatest teachers. “Is duniya mai jitne chamatkar hai, woh sanskaro ke hain. Inhe diga daalo, yeh haiwaan bana dete hai. Inhe sawaro, yehi bhagwan banate hai,“ he says. “My mother and father were my greatest gurus and will remain so. My mother would take me in her lap and recite Guru Gobind's tales, and father remembered Ramayan, Mahabharat by rote. I grew up learning these ethics. There's no one bigger than one's parents.“
 
 Talking to people who have come to meet him, he recalls quotable quotes from Ayn Rand's 'The Fountainhead'. He also remembers how his parents forced him to read three newspapers in the morning and watch TV news.
 
 “At one point I became sick of those TV anchors Manjari Joshi, Raksana Sultan, Tejeshwar Singh. I still remember their names. People say I memorise things from books. No, I don't ,“ he says and quickly slips in a Sidhuism: “A human being is like a musk deer, who runs in the jungle searching for the fragrance which comes from its own self. `Fountainhead' taught me how to be original and never to be a carbon copy of anything. Absurdity of conduct arises when people imitate,“ he insists As he gets ready to leave his home for the first public address, he sips coffee, caresses his Spitz, rubs the rings on his fingers. Known for his bonhomie with old childhood friends, he's prompt to call them with their monikers.There's palpable excitement as he gets into his SUV.
 
