Nagpur: A 30-year-old woman, also mother of a six-year-old child, has indicted her former live-in partner for repeatedly sexually exploiting on the pretext of marriage since July 2012.

 The survivor, who underwent abortions four times, was also compelled to part ways with her former husband by the so-called live-in partner, Sachin Dangre, cornering her with various emotional intimations, including threatening to commit suicide only to later abandon her.
 
 Reena (name changed), whose complaint was registered at Nandanvan police station on Monday, was introduced to Dangre in July 2012 by a common friend. Already hassled by mental and physical torture by her husband whom she married in 2010, Reena initially found a good moral support in Dangre who worked at a hospital in Wardha. The two soon became friends before developing a close relationship.
 
 It has come to the fore that Dangre, who is learnt to have simultaneously developed several other relations too, had started forcing Reena to divorce her husband who mostly stayed at Chandrapur for business purpose.
 
 In a twist, Reena was implicated in a criminal case too in 2013 when one of the women acquaintance of Dangre came to meet her at her residence. Stunning Reena, there was a police raid at her place following which she was picked up. Reena now perceives the incident as a conspiracy plotted by Dangre to distance her from husband whom she subsequently divorced under pressure.
 
 After leaving her husband, Reena was deceived by Dangre despite having live-in relationship for a prolonged period and her developing pregnancies. As Dangre decided to go adrift, Reena approached the city police’s women’s grievance redressal unit ‘Bharosa cell’.
 
 Her case was later taken up by social activists Nutan Rewatkar and advocate Sameer Sonwane who approached senior police officials, following which the offence was registered. DCP Ravindra Singh Pardeshi too intervened to help the woman.
 
 Senior PI MD Nalawade of Nandanvan police station said that charges can be later increased against Dangre for forcing to abort issuing threats.
 
 
