MADURAI: A close aide of slain dalit leader  , lodged in Palayamkottai central prison in Tirunelveli, was hacked to death while being escorted to a Tuticorin court on Friday. The undertrial prisoner was whisked away from a Tata Sumo, a police vehicle in which he was being escorted, and was murdered. The miscreants sprinkled water mixed with chilli powder on the police team and drove away.

 Singaram alias Balasubramanian, 48, a native of Pullaveli near Attur in Tuticorin was identified as the victim. There were nine cases including murder against him. He had been lodged in the Tuticorin prison, but was shifted to the Palayamkottai prison recently so that he could receive treatment for a leg ailment. He was being escorted by a police team of three constables, a driver and sub-inspector Veerabahu.
 
 The prisoner was being taken to court for an investigation related to an explosives case at Morappanur in Tuticorin district. Police suspect Subhash Pan naiyar from Tuticorin and his henchmen to be involved in the murder. For nearly 25 years, there was gang rivalry between Pasupathi Pandian and  .
 
 Balasubramanian was with the former since his early 20's.Several people have been killed on both sides, including the father, grandfather and brother of Subhash Pannaiyar. On the other side, Pandian's wife, many of his close associates and Pandian himself have been murdered.
 
 Police said that they left the prison at around 10.30am. The incident took place at around 11am when the vehicle just reached a check post on the TirunelveliTuticorin road at   in Palayamkottai, some 8km away from the prison. Palayamkottai police registered a case and conducting inquiries.
 
 According to police, a 13-member gang, waiting at the check post in cars and auto rickshaws, intercepted the vehicle and began damaging it.Using water mixed with chilli powder as their defence, they managed to get custody of the victim from the SUV , at tacked him and fled. Police teams in the southern districts were kept on high alert on important roads and check points to nab the accused.The victim, who was bat tling for life, was taken to the Ti runelveli  . He died in the hospital without responding to treatment. Special teams have i been formed to nab the accused.Balasubramanian and close aides of Pasupathi Pandian had been waiting for an opportunity to murder Subhash Pannaiyar., Subhash Pannaiyar's henchmen had murdered Pandian in Nand havanathupatti village in Dindigul district. Police suspect Pannaiyar's hand in Balasubramanian's murder.
 
