MUMBAI: After the recent selfie deaths of a girl off   in last week of June and of five youths in Vena lake near Nagpur five days ago while they were going live on Facebook, the state tourism ministry has decided to create ‘No Selfie Zones’ at risky spots. These zones will be demarcated at risky points along dams, rivers and valley located across all major   destinations in the state, said MTDC Joint MD Ashutosh Rathod. 

 Not only the zones will be demarcated at spots such as Marine Drive, Bandra Bandstand, Madh Island, Gorai and more but the police will also caution visitors of the high tide hours, said Mumbai police spokesperson DCP Rashmi Karandikar. According to Rathod CCTVS will monitor visitors at some of these spots. While, no penal action will be taken if anyone defies the norm since it will be a non-cognizable offence, spot-fine may be introduced soon, said Rathod.
 
 It may be recalled that MTDC had earlier put up notice boards with messages like “Frame up your mind before the selfie becomes your last frame”, “responsibility of any untoward incident lies with the tourists in the selfie” that fixed the responsibility on the selfie takers. But the move seemed to have less influence on the selfi takers. According officials some rivers, dams and beaches will also have lifeguards and watchmen to alert people about the risks.
 
 During the ongoing tourist season demarcating risky areas and putting up such notices has become a priority for the state administration. Like last monsoon, this monsoon too a landslide has closed the road to Malshejghat affecting the tourism for at least the next couple of days.
 
 In May, an engineering student Meenakshi Rajesh (21) from Tamil Nadu drowned at Bandstand while taking a selfie with her mother and sister at the edge of a rocky patch after the wave hit her and she lost balance. Similarly, Priti Pise from Chunabhatti drowned at Marine Drive after a strong wave hit her.
 
 It may be recalled that India has witnessed 76 selfie deaths of the 127 reported deaths between March 2014 and September 2016. Last year On July 23 at Amboli Falls in Sindhudurg district, a youth fell into a 60-foot-deep gorge while taking a selfie and died. Another 25-year-old fell to his death while taking a selfie with his friends at Lion's Point Valley near Lonavla.
 
 
