NAGPUR: Saturday evening came to a melodious end as artistes recreated the music magic of Mangeshkar family at Scientific Society Hall, Laxmi Nagar. 

 Over 30 artistes performed songs composed by Hridaynath Mangeshkar and sung by sisters   and Asha Bhosle. The programme was organized by Swarali Sangeet Sanstha and Raja Hardas Trust. 
 
 The opening act was a classic instrumental number performed with 10 sitars, five violins, two sets of tablas, a basuri and a harmonium. 
 
 President of the sanstha   said, “It took a month of practice to get each instrument and musician in perfect harmony for this number.”
 
 The main performance was a blend of Hindi and Marathi songs originally composed by Hridaynath and sung by Lata and Asha. The songs were hand-picked and arranged in an order that narrated a love story. 
 
 Singers Deepa Dharmadhikari, Rasika Karmale, Mohini Barde, Manisha Andulkar, Neerja Wagh, Shubhangi Bagaddev, Vidya Borkar and Vinod Sukumar took turns recreating 20 melodies of the sisters.
 
 The first two songs, ‘Ganraj Rangi’ and Mage ‘Ubha Mangesh’ were sung by Dharmadhikari and Borkar. . The love story begins with Lata’s ‘Tinhi Sanja’ performed by Borkar. The song represents the emotions of a girl longing for her lover in the evening.
 
 Asha’s ‘Chandnyat Phirtana’ and ‘Chandane Shimpit Jashi’, performed by Barde and Bagaddev, set an ecstatic mood as the story progresses into night and the girl meets her paramour. 
 
 After the couple consummates their relationship as described in the song ‘Yaara Silli Silli’, the girl learns about her lover’s relationship with another woman. She then asks him not to lie as she sings ‘Jhoote Naina Bole’.
 
 The musical comes with a medley of four songs; ‘Mi Raat Takli’, ‘Nabh Utaru Ala’, ‘Aamhi Thakar Thakar’ and ‘Jambul Piklya Zadakhaali’.
 
 . Here the girl experiences loneliness after her lovers leaves, bringing the story to an end.
 
 Final three songs ‘Mhara Re Giridhar’, ‘Are Are Dyana Jhalasi Pavan’ and ‘Ne Majasi Ne Parat Matrubhumila’ were devotional numbers performed as an exhibit of the sisters’ exceptional talent, said Sahasrabudhe.
 
