 and   visited the  ,  , on Saturday, to promote their upcoming film 'Badrinath Ki Dulhania'. Students from different buildings and departments came early to grab a place in the front row, in order to catch a closer glimpse of the stars. The actors were surprisingly on time, and upon reaching were welcomed by the staff and students present in the conference hall. 

 
 
  
  Varun and Alia danced to several songs from their film (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
 The stars took to the stage, and shook a leg on the film’s title track  . Following this, the students presented a performance on 'Tamma Tamma', and in no time, the actors joined them and matched their steps. Sketches made by college students Atul Sharma, a B-Tech student and Shilpi Kumari, an MCA student, were presented to Varun and Alia. Addressing the crowd, Varun quoted a dialogue from the film’s trailer, "Simple Interest ka formula hai P*R*T divided by 100. Aur compound interest thoda sa kathin hai, ek do hafte mein seekh ke batate hain."
 
 
  
  Varun and Alia strike a pose while promoting their film at a college in Greater Noida (BCCL)
 
 
 Varun continued, "Aap logon ne itna pyaar diya, humein bahut achha lag raha hai. Aap sab log dhoop mein aa kar khade hain. Humari film 10 March ko release ho rahi hai. Aap log dekhne jaaoge na?" Alia added, "Exams toh nahi hai na?" In response, the students cheered a big “No”. Alia continued, "Superb! Toh girlfriend ko saath mein le ke jao ladkon." Varun added, “Agar girlfriend na ho toh kisi ko to dekhne jaana padega picture dekhne. Mummy ko leke jao, aunty ko leke jao, aunty ke doston ko leke jao, par jao!"
 
 
  
  Sketches made by Atul Sharma, a B-Tech student and Shilpi Kumari, an MCA student, were presented to Varun and Alia 
 
 
 
 
 No occasion is complete without clicking selfies. This time was no different, and the actors happily clicked selfies with the students and even shot a video from the stage. The actors then danced to another song from the film 'Aashiq Surrender'.
 
 
 
