GUWAHATI: Next  , if you are lucky, you can smear your friends with   composed of flour extracted from the local tapioca plant. 

 Developed in 2011 by a team of three scientists at   (AAU), the organic   was selected by the   for commercial use. The market feasibility of the product is currently being examined by the state government and local entrepreneurs alike.
 
 With Holi just a few days away, the gulal has lost out on the chance of making a splash in the market; many feel entrepreneurs' lack of interest is to blame.
 
 The organic gulal comes in bright colours and looks exactly like the chemical concoctions currently available.
 
 Priyanka Das, the lead scientist involved in the development of the organic gulal, told TOI on Sunday that the product had not been marketed on a large scale; in 2014, it was sold in limited quantities at an agricultural fair in Diphu. 
 
 "Entrepreneurs need to come forward and bid for the product. We develop technology but, somehow, we are not able to transfer it to the masses," Priyanka rued.
 
 However, a similar organic gulal developed by the National Botanical Research Institute, Lucknow, is now commercially produced.
 
 "The tapioca crop is widely grown in the northeast. We distributed the gulal on a small scale in Diphu. It was widely praised by those who used it. Due to lack of awareness, it is not getting commercialized. We are scientists and we develop things but it is up to the government and private players to take the lead in selling them," she added.
 
 The gulal that floods the city's markets mostly comprises harmful chemicals and heavy metals. It poses serious health risks for Holi revellers.
 
 "Every year after Holi, I get patients complaining of skin irritation and allergies. If a locally developed product can be made available in the market, such cases will gradually decrease," a medical practitioner said.
 
 The presence of heavy metals and harmful chemicals in gulal available in the markets can cause dermatitis, irritation, allergies and respiratory problems. Prolonged usage of chemicals can also lead to cancer.
 
 
