LUCKNOW: With the   releasing its lists of 207 candidates on Friday, the political spotlight moved to seats where both SP and BSP are set to vie for the crucial Muslim vote bank. A comparison of BSP list with the constituencies for which SP declared its candidates show that there are 33 seats where both the parties have fielded a Muslim to corner the minority vote share in their apparent bid to stop BJP from coming to power. 

 In fact, the number of seats where both SP and BSP have fielded a Muslim this time have risen from 2012 assembly elections when there were only 25 such seats out of 207 for which both the parties have announced their candidates so far. In communally sensitive west UP, alone there are 25 such constituencies where both SP and BSP have fielded a Muslim candidate. This is up from the one in 2012, when there were only 17 such seats. 
 
 The comparison of the SP list for the constituencies with that of BSP show that while Mayawati changed party candidate to opt for a Muslim in six constituencies, SP made a change in favour of Muslim on just one seat— Bhojipura. The six constituencies where BSP opted to change for a Muslim candidate include: Pilibhit, Mohammdi (Lakhimpur), Siwalkhas (Meerut), Aligarh, Behat (Saharanpur) and Ranipur (Rampur).
 
 Of the total 33 seats where BSP and SP have fielded a Muslim candidate, 14 were won by the SP, while BSP won 10 in 2012. BJP, on the other hand, registered a win on six seats where both SP and BSP fielded a Muslim candidate. The seats where BJP won were: Meerut South, Agra South, Firozabad, Noorpur (Bijnor), Shahjahanpur and Kanpur Cantt. Political experts point out that it was the division of Muslim vote bank between SP and BSP that went in favour of the BJP.
 
 The political dynamics around Muslim vote bank, said a political commentator, has further changed with BSP chief Mayawati deciding to cobble up a formidable Dalit-Muslim combination to arrest the march of BJP. Mayawati, who has been positioning herself to be the main challenger against the BJP, has already given tickets to 97 Muslim candidates, the highest ever by her party so far.
 
 This is also part of Mayawati bid to corner the Muslim vote bank which has traditionally been siding with the SP since the Ram temple movement of early 1990s. Surveys show that BSP’s vote share has been hovering in the range of 18 to 20% as against SP which has been getting around 55 to 60% of the total Muslim votes.
 
