Sushma Satyanarayana and   point to the spot where the baby was found inside their   on Begur main road; the security guard later said that a heavily pregnant woman from the nearby slum used to visit the complex often asking to use the washroom
 
 Mythri Manjunath (25), a  , had just reached home from work, around 9.30 pm, when two youngsters from her neighbourhood told her about a   on the pavement inside their apartment complex on Begur Main Road, near Electronics City. Mythri rushed to the spot and found a just-born infant, still covered in blood, lying naked and unattended near the compound wall. Shocked and frazzled, she quickly called up her friend, Sushma Sathyanarayana, who was in the same building.
 
 In the next few minutes, the two women found a clean cloth to wipe and cover the freezing newborn and asked around for her parents. Nothing came of it. A small crowd had gathered and the hollering baby had started to become quieter, which worried the two women. They dialled 108 for an ambulance and asked some of the bystanders if they would accompany them to the hospital. Nobody wanted to come. “We asked the people in the apartment, especially the men, if they could accompany us to the hospital. But nobody wanted to get involved in the case. They just stood there clicking photos,” Mythri told Mirror.
 
 About 45 minutes later, the pick-up arrived and the women and the baby left for the hospital.
 
 The ambulance driver took them to Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health Hospital, near Nimhans. By the time they reached and admitted the baby, it was 12.30 am. “The doctors were very helpful. They immediately started treating the baby and told us that we had brought her just in time, which had saved her life. Those words made all the effort worthwhile. We were so happy to know the baby would be fine,” said Sushma.
 
 
 
 
 With baby safely in the hospital, the two were taken to the Siddapura police station nearby where the police took their statements. They were then asked to file a complaint with the Electronics City police, which too they did.
 
 On their way back home, they got a call from the police, who had found the mother. “We reached the apartment and the police informed us that the woman who gave birth to the baby lived in a slum next to our apartment. The woman had told the police that she didn’t want the baby and, so, had left her at the apartment,” said Mythri.
 
 “The police requested us to talk to the woman and convince her to take the baby back. We decided to help out and went to the slum where she lived. It was unnerving. Also, we were shocked to see that she was packing up to flee! It was hard to believe that she had just given birth. We spoke with her, but she was determined about not wanting the baby,” she said.
 
  
  
 
 They found out that the woman was a widow with a 16-year-old daughter and a 10-year-old son. Poverty and the fear of social stigma were likely to be the reasons why she had abandoned her newborn. To account for her swollen belly, she had reportedly told her neighbours she had a tumour. As soon as the baby was born (around 8 pm), she put it in a plastic vegetable basket and left her at the apartment pavement. 
 
 Eventually, Mythri and Sushma convinced the mother to keep the baby.
 
 Next day, the police took the mother to the hospital and left the newborn (who is still under treatment, but is out of danger) in her care.
 
 The Electronics City police said they were happy with Mythri and Sushma’s efforts, which saved the newborn. “Now that the mother has decided to take care of the child, we haven’t registered a case,” said an officer.
 
 But they admitted that it was hard to say if the woman meant it when she said she would care for the child.
 
 
