 plays a big role in our life. It acts as an adhesive that fixes the pictures to the wall of past. Memory is the lens through which we gaze into the future.

 Diabetes, as found in various studies, can be a risk of  , vascular   and other types of dementia. The UCSF researchers found that the relationship between dementia, Alzheimer’s,   and hypoglycaemia is mutual. Results from this study showed that there was a two-fold increased risk of developing dementia in people with clinical hypoglycaemia. Likewise, people with dementia were more expected to experience a severe hypoglycaemic event. 
 
 As we know, in diabetes, glucose does not get proper utilization. Similarly, studies have evidenced that in Alzheimer’s disease glucose does not get proper utilization by the brain. This may be due to the nerve cell death that consequently decreases the brain’s ability to interpret messages. In vascular dementia, death of brain cells is due to the lack of oxygen and thus inhibiting communication of brain cells with each other. 
 
 In Alzheimer’s disease, beta amyloid plaques build up in the brain, which also been shown to prevent insulin receptors in the brain from doing their job. This affects insulin production and makes brain cells insensitive to insulin.
 
 Diabetes also elevates the risk of heart disease and stroke, which causes damage to the heart and blood vessels. These damaged blood vessels in the brain may contribute to the Alzheimer’s disease. The brain works with many chemicals and too much of insulin can cause imbalance in these chemicals. Some of these changes may help to trigger the Alzheimer’s disease.   is also known to cause inflammation, which may cause damage to the brain cells and lead to development of Alzheimer’s disease. 
 
 Alzheimer's disease may be called as type 3 diabetes. Recent studies on basic science investigation have suggested possible associations and some common pathophysiological mechanisms. Diabetes causes inflammation, damages blood vessels and the brain depends on a lot of chemicals which can be unbalanced by excess insulin which is the defect in type 2 diabetes.
 
 A recent study published in the Journal of the   also supported the fact that hypoglycaemia may impair cognitive health, and reduced cognitive function may increase the risk of a hypoglycaemic event that could further compromise cognition, resulting in a detrimental cycle.
 
 To break this cycle, it is suggested to include cognitive function tests and therapy in the management and care of older patients with diabetes.
 
 
 
 
