KANPUR: The rail overbridge (RoB) at   was inaugurated on Tuesday by deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in the presence of martyr Captain Ayush Yadav's father Arunkant Yadav, mother Sarla Yadav and sister Rupal. The bridge has been named after Captain Ayush Yadav, who laid down his life fighting terrorists in Kupwara army camp on 27 April this year. 

 The martyr's family was also honoured by the deputy CM. They were given a memento by Maurya. Paying tributes to the martyr, Maurya said that on the recommendation of party MLA Mahesh Trivedi the bridge be named after Captain Ayush Yadav.
 
 Attacking the previous government, Maurya said that the SP government stopped the schemes of the Central government from percolating down to the masses. He said that now the government will bring about a change in the state.
 
 He asked party workers to listen to the problems of the common people and address them. He told the administrative officials that each party worker is a deputy CM in himself and herself and they should be heard and their words acknowledged. 
 
 Counting the achievements of the Yogi government, Maurya said that the government has waived off loan of Rs 36,000 crore. He praised the government's decision of forming anti-romeo squads for the safety of the women and girls. He reiterated that illegal slaughterhouses would not be allowed to function in the state. 
 
 When bridge was getting inaugurated, scores of people were present on the occasion to see the programme. The bridge was beautifully decorated. Maurya thanked the city people for their support and added that the RoB will make commuting smooth. 
 
 The 746-metre long bridge has been constructed by   and   at a cost of Rs 43 crore. Opening of the bridge will ease the commuting of the people and prove to be beneficial for lakhs of people residing in south city.
 
 The construction of the bridge had started on March 31, 2013. It took four years for the two agencies to get the bridge completed. 
 
  leaders Satyadeo Pachauri, Satish Mahana, MP   were among those present on the occasion.
 
