KOLHAPUR: Deputy superintendent of police Prashant Amrutkar in a meeting with sound system suppliers, warned against violating clear cut guidelines issued by the Supreme Court regarding   levels.

 The police department convened a meeting of sound system suppliers in the city on Monday and asked them not to violate the rules, by supplying high decibel sound systems to Ganesh mandals or others celebrating the festivals.
 
 Addressing the gathering Amrutkar said, "As per the norms, there is provision of punishment for those who violate the prescribed noise level of 60 decibel. We are not against owners or suppliers of sound system. We are against those who violate the rules."
 
 He added, "Sound system owners should keep in mind that Navratri festival is approaching, following which Ganesh festival will start. During both festivals, different groups of youth form mandals. They order music systems from the suppliers which at times cause noise pollution by using high decibel sound systems. The suppliers should keep in mind that they will not be spared if they are found supplying high decibel sound systems. We will be conducting separate meetings with the mandal organisers as well, to pass on the message regarding use of sound systems and the punishment for violation of prescribed noise levels."
 
 Police had filed cases against 16 Ganesh mandals last year for violating the prescribed noise levels. During the Ganesh festival celebrations last year, the Ganesh mandals from the city had responded positively to the appeal from the police to maintain noise levels below specific limits and abide by the rules during the ten day festival. However, on the last day some mandals were found violating the norms.
 
 During the idol immersion procession on September 15 last year, all Ganesh mandals were found using sound systems that created noise below the prescribed limits, except for 16 mandals. These mandals were found using high decibel sound systems and flouting noise level norms. Police had recorded the readings of these Ganesh mandals in the presence of government officials.
 
 
