BENGALURU: In The Concluding Part Of The Series On The Effects Of Shops, Offices Entering Once-Quiet Residential Areas, TOI Takes A Look At The Impact Of Industrialization On  
One of the toniest pockets in the city today, Whitefield was conceived as a residential area for the AngloIndian community in 1882.The symmetry of its design ­ built in two concentric circles around a large ground ­ can be discerned even today.
 
 However, this once languorous locality is bursting at its seams today. With new malls, offices and apartment blocks cropping up across the area each year, the din and clamour of commercial establishments threaten to destroy the serenity that survives in small pockets of the locality.
 
 “As per zoning regulations, no commercial establishments can be set up in areas in the inner and outer circles.Also, commercial activities are not permitted on roads narrower than 40ft,“ said Dilip James, a Whitefield resident. However, these rules are being flagrantly violated, residents point out. Bungalows are being converted into offices and schools, while eateries and salons are being established on smaller roads, with many vendors operating on the pavement.
 
 A bungalow in the inner circle was converted into a yoga training centre six months ago. The residents also complain that the institute hasn't made the necessary parking arrangement.
 
 However, the residents have been successful in resisting the advance of commercialization.“An elementary school was operating out of a bungalow in the inner circle. Its buses would be parked on either of a 30ft road, leading to congestion. When this shut down, a pre-school tried to take its place. But, the residents met members from the school man agement, and explained the zoning regulations to them.Ultimately , the school management dropped the idea,“ said Ravi Kumar, a longtime resident of Whitefield.
 
 However, the bungalow was subsequently converted into an office, rendering the efforts of the residents futile. Similarly, in May 2016, there were plans to c o nve r t a house in the outer circle into a preschool.The resid e n t s w ro t e t o the management, but to no avail. After writing to the BBMP, they petitioned the high court. The court said that a decision could be taken only by the Palike, and ordered the school to remain closed till such a time.
 
 “The school authorities then tried to open a summer camp there for a few days. But they stopped after we filed a police complaint,“ Dilip said.
 
 In July last year, the owners of a house near the century-old Memorial Church rented their home to a cafécum-store. Although residents learnt of this development a week before the store was to be inaugurated, they responded to the situation quickly . “We met the tenants, and asked how they planned on managing the waste, in addition to what   had been made.We also told them about the zoning regulations. They decided to abandon the project, and move elsewhere,“ said Ravi.
 
 Another resident said that allowing commercial operations out of one house set a bad precedent. “Others start to feel they can do the same, making it harder to reason with them,“ he added.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 To expect the city to retain its idyllic charm in the face of rampant commercialisation and industrialization would sound utopian.Bengaluru has grown far beyond the contours of Kempegowda's fort, and is likely to witness further expansion in the future.However, it isn't altogether naïve for citizens to expect a sense of calm in areas that were always meant to be residential areas.Commercialization of some of the city's oldest residential pockets reflects the lack of foresight on the part of authorities involved in planning. Bengaluru is today on the cusp of losing more than its dense green cover: its very identity is struggling for survival, and it is up to both the citizens and the government to prevent its demise.
 
