NEW DELHI: There was a time when religious leaders were the dominating force. Military leaders replaced them. In the last 100 years, democratically elected leaders took centre stage. And, in the next 15-20 years, business and economic leaders will dominate,   said at the Global Business Summit here on Monday. The twoday event is organised by Economic Times and Yes Bank.

 Businesses, Sadhguru said, have grown bigger than nations. “When something like this happens, every thought you generate impacts millions. If you think that the work you do is important, the most important thing is to work on yourself.“
 
 The spiritual master emphasised the need for equanimity and the ability to handle uncertainty well.
 
 “We stand upon the threshold of great possibility. When people step on new terrain they experience uncertainty. You are in a situation and don't know how to handle it. “We tremble at the uncertainty,“ Sadhguru said.
 
 For him, equanimity is not something one aspires to. It's a state of being in an unprejudiced way, a state of neutrality where one doesn't identify oneself as good or bad, high or low, judgment comes from consciousness, from the state of being. If one walks fast, he said, one will constantly be in new territory. Every uncertainty is a new possibility. It is just one's inability to handle new terrain that makes one conclude that something is uncertain. The experience of uncertainty is because most are in a state of compulsive reaction to the situations they exist in. The Isha Foundation head made it clear: Do what you want but the world won't be the way you want it to be. “Forget about the world, even people in your family... won't be the way you want them to be.“ According to Sadhguru, the best way to handle uncertainty is to see reality for what it is.
 
 “There are no problems. There are only situations, some you know how to handle and some you don't know how to handle. What is a problem for one person is opportunity for another,“ Sadhguru said.
 
 He suggested ways to optimise work capacity by working on oneself. “If you spend 30-40 minutes a day in upgrading who you are, your sleep quota will come down. You will do more in less time. Time is ticking away for all of us. One can handle energies differently, what one does in 10 days, you will do in one day.“
 
