Surat: The role of police inspector of Khatodara police station R R Aahir came under the scanner after he arrested family members of a businessman for running a liquor den in their house in a prohibition case complaint. An inquiry was ordered against Aahir by city police commissioner Satish Sharma. He is likely to face strict action as more professional mistakes by him have come to the notice of his seniors.

 On September 10, a resident of Tadkeshwar Mahadev Maholla in Bhatar Shailesh Mundwal (18) was at home when a group of people came there and began to thrash him and his brothers. The attackers were blaming Mundwal and his brothers — Hitesh and Bhavesh — for needless argument with them over driving away their cattle from the road. “Four people came and beat us at our house. When we shouted for help, they left, but only to return with eight more people. The group began to assault us and left when our neighbours came to our rescue. However, they returned, this time with 15 people, who thrashed us,” Hitesh said.
 
 Mundwal family was returning home from Althan in a car when they found cows owned by the attackers sitting on the road. The attackers alleged that the victims’ car had touched one of the cows. The accused chased Mundwal family up to their house and attacked them thrice in groups. The police first registered the complaint of attackers, six hours after the incident, at around 12.20 am on September 11. The complaint of victim’s family was registered only at 1.30 am, albeit the same day.
 
 In another such case, the police booked a group of five people at Khatodara police station on a complaint of an automobile service station owner Rakesh Singh on September 14. Singh was at his garage in Bhatar when the group bought some products from a neighbouring store. A boy at the store asked for payment and the group began to thrash him. Singh intervened and he too was thrashed by the group. Singh suffered an injury on his hand. 
 
 “I had to wait at the police station with an injury from 1 pm to 4 pm to get my complaint registered. We were not even called for identification of the accused who were arrested and released on bail by the police. One of the accused is ‘Friend of Police’ (FOP),” Singh alleged.
 
 Aahir had also deployed FOPs with baton to check vehicles during night hours along with policemen. The issue came to the knowledge of police commissioner, who instructed senior officers to look into it. Meanwhile, Aahir is also facing inquiry for booking 28 people, including 11 women, for running a liquor den at a house. The fact is the accused were arrested in a raid at a booze party at a bungalow in New City Light on September 24. 
 
 
