Panaji: The education division of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has framed guidelines to regulate private playschools for children in the age group of 3-6 years. Once the guidelines are adopted by the state, each private playschool will have to be registered and will have to include the word ‘playschool’ in its name. The play school will have to ensure that the child-teacher ratio and the child-caregiver ratio is 1:20 and that there is adequate staff to maintain hygiene, sanitation and ensure safety of the children. No child below the age of three years will be admitted to the playschool where fees charged must be regulated by the government.  No playschool will be permitted to collect any capitation fee or subject the child or his/her parents or guardians to any screening procedure, failing which the school can be derecognized. Playschools will also be required to maintain records of enrolment forms, profiles of children, their parents, attendance registers of all children and employees, fee records of all children and quarterly health check-up records of children. The playschool applying for recognition will have to swear in an affidavit that none of the office-bearers of the school have ever been convicted under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POSCO) Act, 2012, Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, the Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Act, 1986 and Child Labour (Prohibition and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2016.  Any playschool wishing to close down will need to apply to the government and ensure that the children are transferred to other playschools. The guidelines also require the government to prepare and publish in the government gazette a list of recognized and derecognized private playschools every year.  The guidelines once adopted by the state are expected to prevent violation of child rights, any kind of abuse against children in the age group of 3-6 years and to bring inclusiveness and uniformity in all education institutions providing preschool education. The number of playschools registered with the directorate of education (DoE) went up to 508 last year, taking a leap from 345 in 2013. The actual number of such schools operating in Goa is likely to be even higher as the registration with DoE is voluntary. The DoE began registering them in 2010 for the first time when only 300 were identified. The highest number of playschools operate in Bardez, followed by Salcete. Tiswadi has over 60 pre-primary schools functioning in the taluka, while Mormugao has another 55. The rest of the talukas have less than 50 pre-play schools operating in each region, as per the DoE records. The DoE had received feedback from parents of many playschools, functioning from dingy premises following which they began registering them.