COIMBATORE: The next time someone hopes to propagate a radical view through Facebook, the chances are that he may end up with unsolicited followers - the men in khaki. 

 Social media pages expressing controversial and radical views on religion have come under the scanner of the   (SIC) of  . The cell, formed to monitor radical elements in the city after the 1998 bomb blasts, has been monitoring about three dozen Facebook pages, including that of H Farook, a young Muslim atheist who was recently murdered for expressing anti-Muslim sentiments. Now, the cell has expanded its scope, bringing more social media sites under its scanner.
 
 "After Farook's murder, we have deputed two people exclusively to monitor the Facebook posts of certain people who post inflammatory religious views. Such posts may trigger unwanted friction among those sentimental about their religious beliefs,'' said a senior   officer from Coimbatore. The social media pages under surveillance belong to people of various religious faiths and ideologies.
 
 The SIC has identified more than 100 people in Coimbatore who have posted views sympathizing with ISIS on social media. "Some of them are being monitored by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and are known to be acquaintances of few people arrested in the past by various security agencies,'' he said.
 
 Police say that social media has become a critical tool to identify radicals. Earlier, police used to track people who made inflammatory speeches. Some indulge in activities like printing and distribution of pamphlets in support of a radical outfit. "But nowadays, more people are airing their views on social media," said the officer.
 
 While active members of religious outfits are under surveillance, police identify social media pages of those that require monitoring using key words like 'ISIS.' "We also go through the comments for certain posts. Those posting inflammatory comments are also tracked,'' said another officer.
 
 When Thirumurugan Gandhi, coordinator of the May 17 Movement, posted his views on social media condemning the murder of Farook, his page was flooded with abuses and threats. "Fundamentalists, irrespective of religion, always try to intimidate the public into silence. But people should not stop expressing their views," he said.
 
 
