AURANGABAD: The Economic Offence Wing (EOW) of the city police has launched a manhunt for 10 traders from   for allegedly duping city-based traders to the tune of Rs 11 crore.

 In all there are a total of 14 accused, of which four have already been arrested by the EOW on the charges of duping businessmen from the town to the tune of over Rs 1 crore.
 
 The arrested accused moved Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court after the lower court rejected their bail application. They have accepted their mistake and deposited the Rs 1 crore along with interest in the court, following which the HC sought city police’s opinion in the case.
 
 Aurangabad commissioner of police Amitesh   said, “We have stated before the HC that the accused have allegedly committed cheating by duping the city-based traders to the tune of Rs 1 crore. Irrespective of the accused depositing the money in the court, the offence has already been committed. So, we are opposing their bail.”
 
 The officer said the same set of accused have been found cheating other traders to the tune of Rs 11 crore and considering the gravity of the issue, the case has been handed over to the EOW.
 
 EOW assistant inspector of police Shyamsundar Kauthale said, “Gujarat-based Anil Limited purchased several tonnes of maize from the city on credit through city-based middlemen in the month of November and December 2015.”
 
 After Kumar found that the same set of accused have   several traders, who were requesting for a probe by city police, an offence was registered with Kranti Chowk police station and accordingly all 16 complaints have been merged.
 
 Sources in EOW said that Rushikumar Sahuji, an Old Mondha-based trader and proprietor of  , sold 1.07 thousand quintal of maize to Anil Limited through a broker firm named as Swastik Corporation in November 2015.
 
 The cost of the maize was Rs 14.50 lakh which Anil Limited had promised of paying in 90 days. Two cheques of   were sent to the maize seller. However, both the cheques were dishonoured when presented in his bank by the maize seller.
 
 “The suspects have used a similar modus-operandi and have duped 16 other   from the city, taking the cheating amount to a whopping Rs 11 crore,” said the EOW officer.
 
 
