The Panjab University is likely to release the provisional merit list for the Common Entrance Test (PU CET) 2017 today evening. The candidates who have appeared for the   test can go to the official website - cetug.puchd.ac.in - to check the merit list. 

 The Panjab University will also release the seat allocation list for the first online counselling round today. The students who have been selected would be required to report to their respective departments based on the seat allocation list from July 19 to 21, 2017.
 
 
 
 1. Open the official website of   cetug.puchd.ac.in
 
 2. Click on provisional merit list notification available on homepage.
 
 3. Enter your login ID and password in the fields provided.
 
 4. Check and download the merit list or you can take a print out also.
 
 
 
 
 
 The Panjab University conducts the Common Entrance Test every year for admissions into its various undergraduate courses such as Bachelor of Homeopathic Medicine and Surgery B.Pharmacy and BSc (Hons) etc. It has over 75 departments, 15 centres/chairs on the campus and four regional centres grouped under the faculties of Arts, Science, languages, law, education and Fine Arts, Business management and Commerce, Engineering and Technology, Medical Sciences, and Pharmaceutical Sciences.
 
 
 
 
 Panjab University is a public collegiate university located in Chandigarh, India. It originated in 1882, but was established in 1947, making it one of the oldest universities in India. The university has 75 teaching and research departments and 15 centres for teaching and research at the main campus located at Chandigarh. It has 190 affiliated colleges spread over the eight districts of Punjab state and union-territory of Chandigarh, with Regional Centres at Muktsar, Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur cities in Punjab state. The campus is residential, spread over 550 acres in sector 14 and 25 of the city of Chandigarh. The main administrative and academic buildings are located in sector 14, beside a health centre, a sports complex, hostels and residential housing.
 
 
