It’s been going really well for a while. The dates are interesting, you talk to each other non-stop on the phone, blush whenever there’s a suggestive message from him in your message box… this is definitely what you were looking for. But, this ‘can’t-keep-our-hands-off-each-other’ stage will fizzle out. And before you know it, stalemate will settle in. You will fight about which restaurant to go to, and trust us, there will be times when you will feel like not taking their calls, however, unimaginable that might sound now. This is exactly the time to ask yourself some questions. Your answers will help you figure out if he is ‘the one’ irrespective of the arguments, differences and ugly crying.

 
 
 You don’t have to be your partner’s clone when it comes to interests. Whether or not Chetan Bhagat’s inclusion in a university syllabus is for the benefit of India’s collective intellect can still be a matter of debate between you two. However, if books, or leisure reading interests both of you, you can eventually glide over that one point of difference. Shared interests are important because life will not always be pink and rosy. If you have similar viewpoints when it comes to certain things — finances, the prospect of having a family — then it is worth fighting for.
 
 
 
 Being loved, and being respected, are two very different things and there’s a fine line separating them. But how do you know which one is love and which, respect? Well, think about these things: Does he care to listen to your points during a discussion with common friends or does he shoot them down? Does he ask for your opinions when it comes to decision-making, even if he later chooses to not take your advice? Does he make an effort to be nice to people who matter to you, even though he probably does not like them much? If the answer to these questions are ‘yes’, it’s because he respects you. Says  , a relationship counsellor, “A healthy mix of love and respect indicates commitment in a relationship. That way, the relationship becomes teamwork despite the differences of views and opinion. One who loves their partner a lot, but doesn’t have respect for them, is bound to become authoritative.”
 
 
 
  often sulk. And men cannot stop making jokes about how we keep saying ‘nothing’ when something is definitely wrong. However, it’s the balance that does the trick. If we had weighing machines to do it for us, we would probably be the happiest, but we must weigh out our laughter against our tears. For  , a PR professional, it was a hard lesson. “Early in my relationship with an ex, I realised that I spent more time being tensed than happy. When things were good, no one could say that there was anything wrong with us. But, things would turn sour frequently, and it started taking a toll on me. When the constant bickering became a pattern, I found impossible to break through and decided to come out of it.” Well, if he makes you laugh suddenly in the middle of a mundane Monday morning, or if you can’t wait to tell him a silly joke that you read on the internet, you probably are on the right track.
 
 
 
 If you are looking for long-term commitment, it is essential that both of you like each other’s family and friends. However much we try to shirk away from it, family will always be a sensitive point amongst couples. Friends and families are the people we can’t live with and can’t live without. If you can’t stand the sight of his friends and family, if you believe that they have a hand in whatever’s going wrong in your relationship, that’s a red flag. After two months of dating, software engineer   was in for a rude shock when he introduced his girlfriend to his friends. “We went for dinner with a bunch of my guy friends and their girlfriends. I thought it was going really well, until we decided to call it a night. On our way back, my girlfriend sat beside me counting all the ‘wrong things’ my friends did through the evening. I let it go that night but she kept it up and made it an issue whenever I wanted to hang out with them. After trying for a month to make her understand their importance in my life, I gave up. I am not asking for a lot. If my 
 girlfriend starts raging at the mention of friends, I will be left to choose between the two. I cannot do that. We finally parted ways.” It is not mandatory to call your partner’s friends BFFs or be absolutely in sync with their thought process. But it is essential that you at least get along.
 
 
 
 We keep telling ourselves, and our friends, ‘be yourself’. It is time to walk the talk. We all have quirks and habits that we would rather not have anybody else know about. Maybe we talk to ourselves when stressed. Maybe we do the jiggy when there’s music going on. Maybe we have a weird fetish of sleeping with three pillows. You partner might find these quirks endearing or simply distasteful. However, if they become the reason for constant quarrels, you might want to re-evaluate the relationship. Compromising on little things, like giving up on one pillow to make room for your partner, is one thing. However, being afraid to voice your opinion because it may make your partner go berserk, is another. Look for the difference.
 
