RANCHI: Opposition parties on Monday criticised the financial budget 2017-18 and called it a repetitive manifesto of announcements while JMM legislators walked out of the floor during the chief minister's budget speech on Monday. 

 Leader of opposition   claimed that the government had run out of ideas and was copying schemes from other states. "The fellowship program announced today has already been implemented by the Delhi government under  ," Soren told reporters in his assembly office.
 
 The former CM also said the increased allocations were threatening to push the interest rates against the central loan beyond Rs 300 crore but the Das government had only grossed Rs 10,000 crore so far against its targeted revenue of Rs 24,000 crore in the ongoing fiscal. Soren urged the Das government to reveal the details of the royalties received from the Union government against coal block allocations. 
 
 "The budget does not have anything for health care and the para-teachers. There is nothing for women safety especially when the crime rates against women are highest," Soren said. JMM legislators also protested against the amendments to the Chotanagpur Tenancy (CNT) and   (SPT) Acts with placards and walked out of the assembly soon after.
 
 On the other hand,   president Sukhdeo Bhagat called the budget a 'slew of announcements'. "The government has not been able to spend 48% of its last year's allocations so far. Will the CM answer why several announcements like making Ranchi a free Wi-Fi city have not been implemented?" Bhagat said.
 
 Jharkhand Vikas Morcha - Prajatantrik (JVM-P) legislator   said the budget "had nothing new". "There was nothing specific for employment of the youth. The rise in allocation for the SC and ST communities is also small," Yadav said after the budget speech. 
 
 The opposition parties also attacked the Das government over the delay in revoking the suspension of four legislators. Yadav alleged that the government had withdrawn the security of four legislators and was threatening to snatch their residences. 
 
