The photograph of this   by a Bangalore-based photog,  , shot in   has been widely circulated on social media and has also grabbed the attention of conservationists across the country. The contention among the enthusiasts is whether it’s an albino or a white tiger? However, Nilanjan clarifies and says, “According to the experts whom I shared the photograph with, it is neither an albino nor a white tiger. But it could be the palest wild tiger spotted anywhere in India in the last many decades.”
Nilanjan spotted the tiger last week while he was driving on a forest road in Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve. “I was with a forest guide and then we suddenly saw this tiger walking on the road, a little more than 200 feet away. It heard the sound of the vehicle, looked back, jumped and went into the undergrowth of a small hillside. Then we waited there for some time, hoping that it would come back to the road. But it didn’t. After a while, we slowly started moving from that place and then the guide saw the tiger again and told me, ‘Look, the tiger is there behind the bushes’. After a few seconds, it came out of the bushes, looked at us for a few seconds and went back into the bushes, again. When I was looking through the camera, I realised that the tiger looked very different and I had never seen one like this tiger. It looked almost white to my eyes. I took a few shots of it and at a distance, I spotted another tiger, a normal one. When I saw the normal one that it really struck me that both of them looked really different. And after taking a few more shots, we moved off,” shares Nilanjan on how he spotted this tiger.
 He informed the forest department officials, posted the photograph on a few social media groups and shared it with   experts. “I wasn’t really sure what kind of tiger I had exactly spotted. I surfed online and realised that a true white/albino tiger has never been spotted in the wild in the last fifty years anywhere in the world. Today, all of them are in the zoos and are inbred. So, I thought it was unlikely that I spotted one in the wild. I consulted and sent raw and JPEG images to Dr Parvesh Pandya from this wildlife magazine, who is also a zoologist, and Belinda Wright, a renowned conservationist, tiger expert and Emmy Award-winning wildlife documentary filmmaker. Belinda mentioned that she saw something like this in the 1980s in Ranthambore, but this is even paler. This is perhaps the palest wild tiger she has seen in India,” states Nilanjan, who has an MBA from IIM-Calcutta. 
 He adds, “This was an extremely pale one, whitish in colour, with a golden tinge. Experts tell me that it is likely to be a sub-adult tiger. But they are not sure of the age or sex. The reason for this unique pale colour of this tiger could be because of colour morphism, which happens due to genetic variation. It is possible that this happened due to a unique combination of its parents’ genes.”
 Belinda, who is also the executive director of the Wildlife Protection Society of India, says, “There have been reports of pale tigers spotted from time to time. I had seen one, but it wasn’t as pale as this one. Usually, people report these things, but never get good photographs. So, this photograph shot by Nilanjan is a good documentation of a very pale tiger. It could be the palest wild tiger spotted in India in many decades.” She reiterates that this isn’t a white tiger and says, “White tigers don’t have golden tinge at all and have grey stripes. And their eyes are very pale and even blue in colour. But this tiger that Nilanjan spotted has a tinge of golden colour, black stripes, and its eyes are like that of normal tigers. It is extremely rare to spot a very pale wild tiger like this.”
 After informing the forest department, Nilanjan was told by them not to reveal where exactly he spotted this tiger because of crowding and poaching threats. “I’ve told them the exact location, and they have assured me that they are taking necessary steps to protect it and also keep a track of the animal to study its behaviour,” sums up Nilanjan, who has now taken a two-year break from his busy corporate life to follow his passion for wildlife and nature photography. 
 
 
