AHMEDABAD: Reliance Sibur Elastomers Private Limited (RSEPL), a joint venture between   ( ) and Russia’s SIBUR, will set up butyl rubber halogenation plant at RIL’s integrated petrochemical complex in  . This will be the first such unit in  .

 Both the petrochemical giants have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for the plant at the recently concluded Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit in Gandhinagar. Although RIL did not disclose the investment figure, the MoU details available with the state government pegs the proposed investment at Rs. 1,200 crore.
 
 The unit will produce 60,000 metric tonnes (MT) of halogenated butyl rubber every year. RIL owns 74.9% and SIBUR 25.1% stake in the JV. Halogenated butyl rubber is a key ingredient for manufacturing inner liner of tubeless tyre. “The plant will be well-poised to capitalise on the significant surge in regional demand in tyre and pharmaceutical industries. India is expected to see a quantum jump in tyre production, with Indian and International tyre majors gearing up to make capital investments of Rs. 15,000 crore,” said Nikhil Meswani, executive director, RIL.
 
 Apart from the planned halogenation unit, the JV owns a 120,000 MT per annum butyl rubber plant, currently under construction at the same site, which will provide the necessary butyl rubber feed to the halogenation unit. The plant is expected to go on stream in 2018. “India offers attractive investment opportunities given the growing local demand for synthetic rubbers and Gujarat’s favourable investment environment coupled with the well-developed infrastructure and raw material availability at a world-class Industrial site owned by RIL,” added Dmitry Konov, chairman of SIBUR’s management board.
 
 The halogenated butyl rubber demand is expected to grow at a rapid pace of 8-10% CAGR over the next few years. Production from RSEPL will substitute imports and reduce outflow of valuable foreign exchange from India, providing impetus to the government’s Make in India initiative.
 
 
