AHMEDABAD:   in the state have appealed against the decision of a single-judge bench of the Gujarat high court, before a division bench. Earlier, the single-judge bench had rejected their petition demanding that they be allowed to continue   even after the state government’s ban on the narcotic. The petitioners hold it is their right to consume poppy.

 In response to the appeal, a bench of Justice R S Reddy and Justice V M Pancholi on Monday issued notice to the state government and director of prohibition and excise. Further hearing is posted on March 3.
 
 In this case, the state government came up with a circular in 2015 imposing a complete ban on consumption of poppy capsules and straw, which was earlier a regulated substance and could be consumed after obtaining a licence. After the decision, certain addicts from Surendranagar and Banaskantha districts had rushed to the high court against this ban and asserted that consumption of poppy capsules was their fundamental right.
 
 Justice   had turned down their petition by ruling that addiction to a drug or a narcotic substance can never be claimed as fundamental right, because this concept is divorced from the concept of right to life enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution.
 
 The state government had argued that the ban had been imposed according to the Centre’s guidelines by stopping earlier arrangement of supplying poppy capsules to addicts under licence system. The government also maintained that poppy capsules do not have any medicinal value at all.
 
 The single-judge bench had said, “There can’t be a right to consume a particular substance which is like poppy straw, much less the same can by any stretch be viewed or claimed as fundamental right flowing from Article 21 of the Constitution. The concept of ‘life’ encapsulated under Article 21 signifies healthy, rich and contentful orderly life.”
 
 The high court further said, “Right to health is recognized as part of Article 21. A consumption of intoxicant or narcotic or psychotropic substance is antithetic to the concept of health…Right of such nature cannot be claimed as fundamental.”
 
