NAGPUR: Orthopaedic surgeon Dr William Mckenzie from the US has said that due to growing awareness among parents, a disease called as ‘osgood schlatters’ has now come to the fore among children, which used to go undiagnosed earlier.

 Mckenzie was in the city to attend the 23rd annual conference ‘changing trends in paediatric orthopaedics’ organized by   (VOS) on Friday at   on Wardha Road.
 
 “It is learnt that the disease generally occurs during the time when growth spurts and when bones, muscles, tendons, and other structures change rapidly in adolescence. Pain below the knee cap or in the heels is the only symptom related to the disease. It mostly occurs as a result of athletic activities. 
 
 “Kids who are runners or soccer players are prone to it,” said the orthopaedic surgeon from Bryan Marw Hospital, Delware.
 
 He said, “Earlier, if people experienced pain, they would take a break from that activity. Now, patients have become extremely demanding. They all want instant results. I get several patients suffering from the disease, most of whom practice a particular sport and are part of some team. They all demand surgeries which might lead to some other problem.”
 
 Dr Mihir Thackar from Alfred I Dupont Hospital, Willington, US, said, “There is no specific treatment to the disease. Simple exercises, which mostly involve stretching, can stop the pain gradually.” 
 
 “The doctor may also suggest knee pads to be worn for a specific time, which can also be of great help. If the pain is acute, the kids involved in any athletic activity will have to take a break for a couple of months,” he said.
 
 VOS secretary Dr Alankar Ramteke said, “If the disease goes neglected and the kid doesn’t take any break from the activity or avoids performing stretches, the pain will stay unless he/she crosses adolescence.”
 
 “Nevertheless, there is no deformity associated with the disease,” he added.
 
 There will just be some physical limitation for the time being, unless the the child comes out of adolescence,” he added.
 
 Dr  , organizing secretary of the conference, said, “Parents need to visit the doctor regularly and need not avoid pain. Things can get better with a regular follow-up.”
 
