AGRA: For the last leg of first phase elections in UP, political parties have planned intensive campaigning. Election Commission will enforce ban on political campaigning from Thursday 5 pm onwards. Before this various star campaigners of different political parties are scheduled to address back-to-back public rallies, meetings and do road shows. Union ministers, members of Parliament, senior political leaders and others will actively campaign on different constituencies.
 
  In Braj region, BJP has planned 22 public meetings of its star campaigners. On Wednesday, Union home minister and   will campaign in Kheragarh and Etmadpur constituency of Agra district. Etah MP Rajveer Singh and Mathura MP Hema Malini will address a rally in Fatehpur Sikri and other constituencies of the region.
  
  The saffron party’s general secretary for Braj region, Anil Chaudhary, said “On the last day of campaigning, Union minister Uma Bharti will attend public meetings in Agra Rural constituency. She might do a road show as well. Union tourism minister Mahesh Sharma and Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti will also actively campaign in Braj region.”
  
  On Wednesday, finance minister   will interact with people from local business fraternity and intellectuals. According to the sources, the event is planned to settle down discontent among businessmen due to demonetization. Party’s national president Amit Shah will also campaign actively the region.
  
  The Samajwadi Party-Congress alliance has planned back-to-back rallies and road shows of star campaigners in different constituencies of Agra district in the last two days of the campaign. Congress state president Raj Babbar , chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s wife and MP Dimple Yadav, MP Jaya Bachchan, actress Juhi Babbar and her actor husband Anup Soni will campaign for the alliance’s candidates.
  
  According to Madan Mohan Sharma, SP’s district unit spokesperson, “Jaya Bachchan and Dimple Yadav will address a rally in Bah constituency on Wednesday morning. After that, the two leaders will attend public meetings in Etmadpur and Cantonment area.”
  
  Party’s Agra North candidate Atul Garg said “Jaya Bachchan, Juhi Babbar and Anup Soni will do a road show in Lohamandi, Madia Katra and Awas Vikar locality from 2 pm onwards. Later in the evening, Raj Babbar will attend a public meeting at Kamla Nagar.” Juhi and Anup will also do a road show in Kheragarh.
  
  Rashtriya Lok Dal chief and former Union minister Ajit Singh will address a rally in Agra Rural constituency. Ajit Singh’s daughter-in-law Charu Singh will also campaign for the party candidate through several road shows in the last two days.
