NAGPUR: Mehul Pinto (name changed), 13, is an intelligent kid who plays the drum well. He is  , lost his parents at the age of three and his eyesight at the age of eight because of wrong medication. He was living with his aunt, but she did not want him. At this point, Jerryl Hughes came in Mehul’s life who decided to look after him, to which his aunt agreed. And this changed his life for better. 

 Life of Jerryl, who is from the  , changed after he was diagnosed with HIV. This prompted him to work for the people afflicted with the disease. He started   at Nagpur in 2004 to spread awareness about the disease and works for HIV affected children along with his partners Sanjay Patil and Khemraj Meshram. Some HIV affected children are also staying with him now.
 
 On January 1 this year, the foundation turned a 2BHK house — 66, Mecosabagh,   — into a ‘House of Hope’. This house is a special home for HIV affected children between the ages of five and 18. It will be officially inaugurated today, on Republic Day. “I want to raise these kids, educate them and make them healthy people,” he says. But why choose Nagpur? “There are 3,000 children living with HIV in this city,” says Jerryl.
 
 Damini Raghuvanishi, 11, is also HIV positive, along with her mother. Her parents are labourers from  , living in Pahadi area. Damini’s father is an alcoholic. “Her mother couldn’t effectively raise her three children. When we showed her our hostel, she was willing to send Damini here,” says Patil, programme officer of the foundation, adding, “The four children who stay with us have either lost one or both parents.” 
 
 “We encourage children to stay with their families. Affected kids from the neighbourhood come every afternoon between 1pm and 3.30pm to play,” adds Jerryl.
 
 At the hostel, there are bunk beds, food and sanitation facilities, and one full-time caretaker who does housekeeping, cooks and administers medicines to the inmates. 
 
 “I’m myself HIV positive,” says caretaker Pradnya Manjhewar, adding, “When my relatives came to know that my daughter and I were affected, they threw us out of the house. Now I live with my kid at the hostel.” A part-time house maid also visits and doctor for HIV is called to visit monthly. The foundation also wants to buy a fridge and a TV, but they need donations, says Meshram, the community director of the foundation. 
 
