
Oh yes, it is love. The hormones are doing a crazy number, the head is a mush factory you just gave it away, and the heart, well. It's red as far as the eye can spy -red hearts, red roses, and red hot passion. It's intoxicating; it's magic. You are in love. Truly . Deeply. Madly .
 
 What next? The love drill of course! Texting messages that burn with desire; holding hands in the movie hall; stealing long luscious kisses in the darkness; making love till the sun peeks out; laying entwined in each other's arms for a long time after. Having that silly lovers' tiff and the fierce passionate patch-up soon af ter. Hitting the high note with cheesy love songs. Whispering sweet nothings, acting out your fantasies, and being naughty like   didn't exist.
 
 Now, imagine yourselves five years down the line. When the hormones, the heart and the head have gotten back to their normal rhythms. You still love each other but it's now a sublime, sedate, sane love. No longer wild, insane, and furious.
 
 You badly want to be You badly want to be transported back into time if only to relive those heady days of love. You rummage through your photogallery. Let's see what you've got. Selfies at restau rants. Facebook pics, some sky , some sun, some sand, some snooze, and yes, some that, too!. Nice, but where's the love story? All great love stories need great settings, don't you think? So, if you are in a crazy space called love, just make sure it's picture-perfect! Here's what we suggest: Go on, pose, shoot, save, and savour. 
 
 
 Take your place on that marble bench... Get the composition just right. The body language should scream love, but you don’t need to get too lovey-dovey or touchy-feely for this one. The magnificence of the backdrop takes care of that.
 
 
 This is where you need to get adventurous, experimental, erotic, and totally badass. Get into position. Bend, contort, double up. Buy that book— KS, of course. Or check out the poses sculpted in stones, and then go do your own impression of them to capture on camera.
 
 
  Gopalpur-on-sea, or Puri, or the Marina in Chennai. No   poses or suggestive sensuous ones. As the sun gets ready to announce the day, let its brilliance and radiance wash over the two of you. A sun salutation picture, with two of you facing each other and gazing into each other's eyes. feel the warmth even years later.
 
 
 An underwater picture is a must in the love keepsakes. Get down, get dirty, and get creative — if you know what we mean. And since whatever happens inside the water stays inside the water, make sure it’s sizzling and steamy down there!
 
 
 In the safari or that animal reserve. Now, we are not asking you to pose with tuskers or sleep with the lions, but you get the drift. The backdrop should be a mix of exotic animal and plant kingdoms. And there you are, the two of you, valiant and bold in your love… Let the bites (love) show — it’s animal instinct, right?
 
 There will be others too: forts, palaces, treetops, towers, malls, multiplexes, parks, gardens, aquariums, temples, churches, airports and metro trains... The works. As long as you tick off the must-have shots we’ve suggested, who’s to stop you if you want to make the whole world your studio?
 
 You are in love and it’s certainly worth a million clicks! 
 
 
