Gurgaon: A group of residents of DLF Phase 1 claim they are suffering because the builder has suddenly carved out an unauthorised car park near gate no. 7 of the residential area. Not only has this blocked the gate, the car park has eaten into the service lane outside the gate, leaving residents with no option but to drive on the wrong side of Golf Course Road to exit the society.

 According to residents, gate number seven, which was earlier located at the entrance of the service lane, has been moved further inside towards the residential area, to facilitate the owner of the commercial complex next to the gate use the service lane as a car park. Residents said earlier, they could take the service lane, go down Golf Course Road, and take a U-turn Golf Course Road. But since the service lane was disrupted a year ago, they have to drive on the wrong side till Bristol Chowk, then take a left towards Golf Course Road.
 
 “The commercial complex belongs to some politician’s brother-in-law. 
 
 To facilitate him, the developer has moved the gate inside,” said DLF Phase 1 resident Sunil Bhatia, who used to run an export house in Okhla.
 
 He added the commercial complex is supposed to have its own basement car park, which it doesn’t, because of which, the owner and visitors had so far been using the colony’s lanes and the main road to park their vehicles illegally, causing massive traffic jams. 
 
 “There are over 50 cars parked in this spot from morning to evening. 
 
 It’s a nuisance for residents living nearby, who find it impossible to navigate in or out of the area,” said Inder Mohan Puri, another resident.
 
 Residents further said the road is illegally occupied at several places. 
 
 When TOI visited the spot, the service lane was found to vanish abruptly at several points in front of many buildings.
 
 “While leaving the society, residents now have to drive on the wrong side against the flow of traffic, which is a serious traffic offence,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson of Qutub Enclave RWA, which is the DLF Phase 1 society worst affected by the change. 
 
 “We are aware of the situation and have received complaints from residents. We are looking into the matter and will reach a solution soon,” said the DLF spokesperson, when questioned about the complaint.
 
 
