ROHTAK: Railway minister   on Tuesday announced that a new world-class terminal would be built in Gurugram. The new railway terminal would help reduce the pressure on the Delhi terminals that has gone up with an increase in number of trains coming to the national capital from different parts of the country. The work on this project would be started soon, he said.

 In addition, the Rohtak railway station would be developed as a model station in public-private-partnership (PPP) mode, the minister said, while speaking at a function organized by the Northern Railway at Rohtak on Tuesday.
 
 In the presence of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Prabhu dedicated newly-electrified rail section between Rohtak and Jind. He also flagged off a new DEMU (diesel-electric multiple unit) train between Jind and Sonipat through video conference.
 
 Extending greetings to the people on the occasion of Ram Navami, Prabhu said tender for new Rohtak-Meham-Hansi railway line would be finalized in August. “The work would be completed by the end of December 2019. Apart from this, the proposed rail coach factory in Sonipat district would be developed on PPP mode. The work on this project would be started at the earliest,” he said.
 
 Prabhu said so far, electrification work had been completed on about 42% of the total rail network in Haryana. He said, “This figure would be doubled in the next five years as a plan has already been set in place for this.”
 
 He said the railways would save Rs 41,000 crore in the coming 10 years by installing solar power plants, wind power plants and LED lights. With a view to  , five crore saplings are also being planted by the ministry, he added.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Khattar thanked the railways minister for dedicating the new rail projects to the people. He said work on the elevated railway line on the   had already been started, which would help in decongesting Rohtak.
 
 This is the first-ever elevated rail track of the Indian Railways being built for facilitating smoother road traffic in densely-populated city areas. He said that a provision of Rs 100 crore had been made in the   for joint venture projects of the state and the railways.
 
 The government had also decided to construct railway over bridges and under bridges on all unmanned level crossings in Haryana, said the CM. As many as 24 of these had already been built and 21 were under construction, said Khattar.
 
