DHOLPUR:   candidate for Dholpur assembly  , Banwari Lal Sharma filed his nomination on Monday in presence of senior party leaders. Later in a public meeting, the leaders pulled no punches and made scathing attack on BJP-led Rajasthan government terming it as a complete ‘failure’.

 A former minister, Sharma has been a legislator for five terms and has served as PHED minister under the then chief minister   in the early 1980s. Against him ruling BJP has fielded Shobharani, wife of former BSP legislator B L Kushwah, from the assembly seat that is the home turf of chief minister  .
 
 However, with Mamta Gurjar, wife of dacoit Jagan Gurjar also getting into the fray, by-polls has turned into a triangular contest. She too filed her nomination papers on Monday and was joined by her husband and supporters.
 
 In a major show of strength,   president  , former Union ministers Bhanwar Jintendra Singh, Girija Vyas, party’s former state chief Chandrabhan, Congress MLA Pradhyumn Singh and other leaders were present on the occasion.
 
 Addressing the meet, Congress leaders alleged that a party which is in power at the Centre and in the state could not find a single worker or leader from among its ranks suitable enough to be a legislator from Dholpur. Mocking the claims of BJP’s claim of providing 15 lakh jobs, Pilot said, “This government says that 15 lakh youths have been employed but this is far from reality.”
 
 Dholpur by-polls are taking place a year-and-a-half before the assembly elections which are due in December 2018. Result of this would be a barometer of people's assessment of the Raje government.
 
 The election was necessitated as BSP’s B L Kushwah’s membership to the Rajasthan assembly was terminated after he was sentenced to life imprisonment on December 8 last year. Kushwah was found guilty of executing the murder of Naresh Kushwaha in 2012. He was elected from Dholpur seat on BSP ticket in 2013.
 
 No candidate from BSP yet
 
 Dholpur assembly constituency was won by the BSP in 2013 assembly elections. Party’s candidate B L Kushwah won it by defeating Congress candidate Banwari Lal Sharma with over a margin of 9,000 votes. However in the upcoming by-polls, BSP has not announced its candidate. Tuesday is the last day for filing nominations.
 
