You don’t necessarily need to have a path-breaking script if you want to deliver a good play. It’s like a romcom — even with a simple plot line, you can enhance the narrative and hold the attention of the audience if you have the right set of actors, having the right chemistry between them.

 And that’s what ' ?' achieves. Written and directed by   (who has also acted in plays like 'Two Adorable Losers'), the basic story revolves around a retired insurance agent who is desperate to sell his ancestral house in Darjeeling so that he can buy a house in Mumbai. And though he has been a celebrated salesman in his career (he holds the record for selling 101 life policies in a single calendar year), he finds it tough to lure a suitable buyer for his home. All because of a certain deal-breaker — the terrifying Suicide Point just outside his property, where people come to end their life. Not a very good spot to have a holiday home, right? 
 
 Though the play falls in the comedy genre, it isn’t slapstick nor are there dialogues that will have you holding your sides. But the play still has its moments, thanks to its star cast. The protagonist has been essayed by  , who seems to have mastered the genre with comedies like 'Blame It On Yashraj' and 'Bottoms Up'. He once again shines while portraying a crafty, at times helpless man, who has a tender side, too. Giving him stiff competition on stage is  . As the slightly neurotic buyer, his character could easily be over the top, but he manages not to toe that fine-line. It’s interesting to see Darsheel Safary’s (of 'Taare Zameen Par' fame) second innings in acting. As a suicidal, aggressive fast bowler who has a hard time trying to come to terms with reality, he effortlessly slips into the role of a troubled teen in his theatre debut. The pretty Bhavna Pani does justice to her limited stage time, but you wish she had more lines to mouth. Most of the comic relief is provided by Neel Gagdani, the house help, who has added his own nuances to a character, which otherwise would have been lost in the cast.
 
