PUNE: Every now and then, the   of the   launches a   to quell   or   riding. There have been several drives all over the city and offenders have been fined by the thousands, but little sense about safe driving or   seems to be percolating.

 Traffic and road activists say Thursday’s case of a 17-year-old Iraqi teenager knocking down a policeman for trying to stop him from driving on the wrong side, lays bare the casual enforcement of the police.
 
 Data from the traffic police shows that despite sizeable police presence on the road and a network of CCTV cameras in the prominent thoroughfares, the number of cases recorded by the police and the fines collected has kept increasing over the past few years. 
 
 Similarly, underage driving continues unabated, for all of the Pune police’s claims of frequent drives to check them. Road and traffic experts in the city, many who have urged for a tougher line against wrong side driving in the city after frequent accidents, said there are several reasons as to why people drive on the wrong side or before the legal age of driving. But all agreed that the city had a traffic rules implementation problem.
 
 “Motorists have become bold and are not obeying rules, and part of the reason is the casual implementation of these rules by the police. People have developed the mentality that if they are caught while breaking traffic rules, they can pay some amount and get away with it and some even abuse the cops. The enforcement is extremely casual,” city-based activist Ajay Aggarwal said.
 
 Sujit Patwardhan, who is attached to the NGO Parisar, added that poor road traffic designs also contribute to people driving on the wrong side.
 
 “We have seen people travel many km on the wrong side of the road. Poor road traffic designs often lead to people encroaching on the wrong side to avoid distances ,” he said. The police conduct predictable campaigns, and violators often warn the potential ones, he added.
 
 “Foreigners in the city violate rules as the city’s bikers feel they will never be caught for driving on the wrong side. The police should deploy a big part of their force on the road, and some should be mobile on the road,” Rajendra Sidhaye of Save Pune Traffic Movement said.
 
 
