While most stars are quick to announce a success bash within days of their film’s release, Bollywood’s Mr. Perfectionist, Aamir Khan, likes to do things differently. The actor likes to throw a success bash only when his film is truly a success in every sense of the word. Over 40 days after the release of ‘Dangal’, which now holds the distinction of being Bollywood’s highest grosser of all time, Aamir and the film’s team got together to host a success bash on Saturday night. And when you’re celebrating the success of Hindi cinema’s biggest film, it is only natural that the night will be high on star power. All of Bollywood came together to celebrate Aamir’s labour of love – a film that is easily the most loved one of the year gone by.
 
 Aamir looked dapper in a Nehru jacket while his wife Kiran Rao looked elegant in a golden sari. The two shared an ‘aww’ moment on the red carpet as the actor endearingly planted a kiss on Kiran’s cheek. The two were gracious hosts as they welcomed their guests. Aamir’s daughter Ira too was by her father’s side on his big day.
 
 
  
  
  
 Karan Johar was one of the early birds at the party. The filmmaker heaped praises on the actor as he said, “Aamir is a game-changer and he has given mainstream cinema a new voice.” Celebrated singer   too was all praise for the film as she said, “I had decided not to watch the film as I don’t like to watch wrestling. But ‘Dangal’ is a beautiful film and Aamir is a brilliant actor.”
  
 ‘Dangal’ girls – Fatima Sana Shaikh and Sanaya Malhotra – posed on the red carpet with their on-screen mom Sakshi Tanwar. While Fatima looked gorgeous in a black number, Sanya showed off her glamorous side in a one-shoulder dress. Zaira Wasim too wouldn’t miss the bash for the world. Director Nitesh Tiwari and wife Ashwini Iyer Tiwari were seen bonding with the guests.
  
 The otherwise reclusive Rekha made it a point to attend the bash and congratulate Aamir in person. It was every photographer’s delight as the senior actress and Aamir posed together on the red carpet.
  
 Vidya Balan walked in hand-in-hand with husband Siddharth Roy Kapur. The actress looked like a dream in a golden Anavila sari. 
  
  came in with director friend Ayan Mukerji.   looked suave in black and his wife Mira dazzled as always in a blue number. While   showed off her toned pins in a short blue outfit,   looked ravishing in a black number. The red carpet witnessed a whole lot of bonding – if on one hand, veteran actresses Waheeda Rehman and Asha Parekh posed together, on the other hand, former beauty queens   and Lara Dutta were seen chatting nineteen to the dozen.
  
 Filmmaker Vidhu Vinod Chopra graced the event. The ‘3 idiots’ producer was quite forthright in asserting that Aamir is not the sole reason behind the film’s immense success. He said, “Aamir Khan is not the king, the story of ‘Dangal’ is the king. Even if the film didn’t have Aamir and had Hrithik Roshan, even then it would work at the box-office.”
  
 Others at the party included Jeetendra with son Tusshar, Anil Kapoor, Kapil Sharma, Randhir Kapoor, Imran Khan and Randeep Hooda.
  
 Take a look at the pictures from the bash:
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
