LUCKNOW: In its fifth Cabinet decision since it came to power on March 19, Yogi government on Tuesday announced plans to create a district mineral fund, to observe   on January 24, issue all contracts through e-tendering and to waive off stamp duty on the land on which revamped fertiliser unit at Gorakhpur would come up.

 The UP cabinet also decided to formulate a new transfer policy for state employees, said state government spokesperson and health minister Siddharth Nath Singh. The UP cabinet has also given its nod to GST bill, which would be tabled in a special session of the House beginning May 15, Singh added.
 
 Coming to district mineral funds, Singh said people in districts with mines face a lot of hardship for lack of basic amenities and development, hence a district mineral fund would be created. The fund would be linked directly to the Pradhan Mantri Mineral Scheme so that funds are received in the foundation for development of the district, Singh added. Funds would be spent on basic amenities like drinking water, education and irrigation, said Singh. “The funds would be in addition to the royalty being given by lease holder, and would not exceed 25% royalty fee,” he said.
 
 The UP cabinet also decided to observe January 24 as Uttar Pradesh Diwas which was known as United Provinces during British rule was rechristened Uttar Pradesh on January 24, 1950. Governor Ram Naik had in 2014 requested the UP government to observe UP Diwas and this day is observed in Maharashtra but not in the state. Yogi government has now decided to mark the day with fervour and has also decided to hold several programmes on the occasion, said Singh.
 
 UP cabinet approved a new transfer policy and has decided to give relief to ‘divyangs’ (specially abled) from the transfers, the UP government spokesperson added. As per the new transfer policy, an employee can stay in a district for three years and in a division for seven years. HoDs have been given power to transfer employees of group ‘ka’ and ‘kha’ categories, the spokesperson said and added that at the most 20% employees may be transfered.
 
 The government also decided that e-tendering in all departments would be mandatory and manual tendering would be done away with three months. The UP Electronics corporation has been appointed nodal agency for e-tendering in various departments, said Singh and added that even the tender fee would be accepted online. The Cabinet authorised the chief minister for any further decision on the issue. 
 
 On stamp duty rebate, Singh said the Centre had decided to invest heavily in the fertiliser unit in Gorakhpur in 2016, though the process was slow. With the government now deciding to waive off stamp duty on the land to be transferred to Hindustan Fertilizer and Chemical Ltd for the new fertilizer unit, the decision would indirectly hit farmers of the region, said Singh.
 
 
