Chennai: It is admission season for college students, but there appears little or no support from banks. Rising bad loans, coupled with ambiguous recovery mechanism, has elbowed some banks away from this segment. The results are showing with loan portfolio shrinking. 

 Consequently, the educational loan market shrank with total loans down to Rs 60,432 crore in 2017 from Rs 61,853 crore last year. Rising NPAs on educational loans and lack of a recovery mechanism has pushed banks to either stop disbursing educational loans or have made the loan disbursal selective. 
 
 Despite calls from opinion makers, including former finance minister P Chidambaram, that banks should be investing more into the future of India — private banks say they are going to be extremely selective in educational loans this year. Lakshmi Vilas Bank said its NPA levels for educational loans were roughly 17% — while its overall gross NPA was well-managed at 3.7%. “We still lend, but on a very selective basis,” said the CEO of the bank Parthasarathi Mukherjee. City Union Bank also has NPA level of 15-20% for educational loans, despite its gross NPA maintained at 2.70%. “It is a chain reaction. More than one-third of engineering college seats are not getting filled as capacity has exceeded demand. It is no longer top-ranking students, but anybody who clears standard 12 gets admission. These students have difficulty completing their course on time. And even after graduation, only 10-15% are directly employable. On Day one itself they turn defaulters,” says N Kamakodi, CEO, City Union Bank. With the IT industry undergoing a downturn, campus recruitment may remain flat to negative this year. “Youngsters are finding it difficult to get jobs. One would have to earn at least Rs 20,000 if they wanted to comfortably pay an EMI of Rs 5,000 a month,” adds Kamakodi.
 
 And its not just domestic students who are finding the job hunt difficult. Overseas students are facing the backlash of increasingly protectionist policies in countries like the UK and US. “Students who go abroad are facing more challenges on the visa, immigration front. Global uncertainties, BREXIT triggered turbulence in European countries, volatility in currency rates are affecting employment chances. This is leading to higher defaults,” says a HDFC Credila executive.
 
 Public-sector banks such as Indian Bank and Union Bank of India reiterate their commitment towards lending to students. “Our educational loan portfolio continues to grow at 20%. We are continue to give loans at a time when private players are leaving the market," Rajkiran Rai G, CMD, Union Bank of India. Indian Bank CMD Kishor Kumar Kharat also affirms that the bank would continue to lend actively to deserving candidates. “Another policy decision we have taken is to not give defaulting educational loans to asset recovery companies (ARCs), after reports that some recovery agents are unduly aggressive with borrowers. It is a sensitive issue and we would like to handle interally,” said Kharat.
 
 Tracking student borrowers is another issue as they change their contact details, address, move cities and even countries within 2-6 years, says Credila official, which has increased its educational loan disbursement by 33% to Rs 3,194 crore from Rs 2,402., says, “Some of the nuances/challenges include frequent change of addresses of the students in a short span of time, when a student moves from one location to another for a bachelors course and then changes cities or even countries for a masters degree and then to another for a job. All of these change of contact details take place in a short span of 2-6 years. This makes tracking of students extremely challenging. Also, education loan sizes are typically small and that too, disbursements happen in tranches over the study period.”
 
 
 
