NEW DELHI: Even as he observes a nine-day fast on navratras living only on warm water, milk and juice, PM   will have a packed first weekend in April with issues concerning infrastructure, justice, technology, and of course, spirituality on his plate.

 Coming Sunday, he will dedicate to the nation, India’s longest road tunnel, the strategically crucial Chenani-Nashri Tunnel, which will significantly improve connectivity between Jammu and Srinagar.
 
 After a visit to the state-of-the-art tunnel, he will also address a public meeting at Udhampur.
 
 Before reaching the hill state to unveil the tunnel project,   will be at Allahabad to attend the closing celebrations of the 150th anniversary of Allahabad high court.
 
 On Saturday, the Prime Minister will be hosting the visiting Malaysian Prime Minister   for bilateral talks at Delhi’s Hyderabad House. The Malaysian PM is on a visit to India.
 
 This weekend comes in the midst of the Chaitra Navratra (a nine-day period of fasting), which holds spiritual significance for the Prime Minister. He also keeps similar fasts during Shardiya Navratra in the winters.
 
 “Modi observes both the navaratras and lives only water, milk and juices. However, even while practising rigorous abstinence, he performs his duties with same spirit,” said a source.
 
 Despite the fasting and hectic schedule, the PM will take time out to address some of India’s sharpest young “tech” brains, who are taking part in the final round of the Smart India Hackathon.
 
 The Hackathon, will take place over two days from Saturday 8am until Sunday 8pm It will focus on social issues and problems identified by 29 ministries and departments of the Union government.
 
 About 10,000 participants have qualified for the final round.
 
 The PM will address the participants at 10pm on Saturday night. The address is expected to last for about 45 minutes, and will be followed by an interaction with participants across multiple locations.
 
 As the finalists rack their brains to find innovative solutions to problems, in the same 36-hour period, Modi will be focusing on a diverse range of topics, from diplomacy, to infrastructure, justice, technology, and spirituality.
 
 
 
 
