MANGALURU:   that is spearheading the protests against the   has announced its intent to make a   on January 26 to get it scrapped.

  Keeping details of this push under wraps, the leaders of the samiti hinted that it will be a surgical strike like campaign to register their protest against the project and get the state government that is steadfast on implementing it, drop the same in the interests of people of Dakshina Kannada.
 
 Former MLA and leader of the samiti K Vijayakumar Shetty told reporters on Wednesday that the samiti will not bow to any pressure henceforth and work assiduously till the government drops the project. Noting that this is not a small project given that its estimated cost is around Rs 13,000 crore, Vijayakumar, said the government is going ahead with the project even when all urban local and panchayati raj bodies have adopted resolutions against its implementation.
 
 Training guns on forest minister B Ramanath Rai, who is also the district minister, Vijayakumar, said, “If Rai wants, he can get this project stopped in a minute. It is rather shameful that he is enamoured by trappings of power and does not want to see the bigger picture for the district while pushing for smaller gains of developing his constituency.” The duo had clashed in public on the issue with Rai abusing the former MLA.
 
 Samiti member Satyajit Surathkal said the samiti has no issues with handing over the leadership of anti-Yettinahole campaign to anyone including the Greens who can take it to its logical end. 
 
 “We have exhausted all democratic means of opposing the project including bandhs, padayatras, protest meetings and rallies and are pitted against a government that is determined to see the project through notwithstanding the stringent opposition to it,” he said.
 
 Claiming that the recently concluded Sapta Kshetra Pancha Tirtha campaign has further galvanized public opinion in the district against the project, K Monappa Bhandary, former MLC and member of the Samiti, said the January 26 agitation will be a fight to the finish. 
 
