MUMBAI: Chilling new details emerged on Wednesday in the probe into 29-year-old   Karan Joseph’s alleged suicide. A woman living on a floor below the flat from where Karan allegedly jumped on September 9, told police that four days before the incident she had seen a “bald and thin boy” perched precariously on the 12th-floor ledge as if he was dangling, with someone holding a leash clipped to the loop of his trousers. The   has only one flat on each floor.

 “This was on the afternoon of September 5. I suddenly heard a lot of crying and screaming. I rushed to my bedroom window from where I looked up to the 12th floor balcony and saw this thin bald boy. I couldn’t see his face clearly because his head was hung low. There was a plastic curly chain-like wire—the kind you see on phone handsets—clipped to his belt. Seeing his position on the ledge I was afraid he could have fallen any moment,” she told officers who recorded her statement in the building on Wednesday evening.
 
 Though Bandra senior inspector Pandit Thakare denied any statements were recorded on Wednesday, department sources confirmed cops arrived at 9.30pm and recorded the woman’s version.
 
 The witness alerted her husband instantly and both went upstairs to check what was unfolding inside the flat when Vidhi Shah, a friend and business partner of Rishi Shah, answered the door. “When we asked her what was happening, she said: “There has been an incident. Everything is fine now. He is inside and resting.”
 
 The witness and her husband came away assuming there might have been some emotional moments between friends which must have been sorted. “At that time we didn’t know Karan or Rishi until the suicide incident. We’ve lived here for two years. We’ve heard sounds of them partying in the past but this is the first time we were witness to something like this. So we informed the building’s secretary and the landlord of the 12th floor flat of what we had witnessed and did our duty.”
 
 M Zaki, a member of Concorde Housing Society, told TOI later when security guards visited Shah’s apartment to inquire what had been happening earlier that day, “They were told some currency notes had fallen on the parapet which they were trying to retrieve. So we left it at that.”
 
 Karan’s death leap on September 9 brought back memories of what residents witnessed four days earlier. “I instantly messaged a photograph of Rishi and Karan to the lady to check whether it was one of them she had seen at the window on September 5, to which she dismissed Rishi but said ‘the guy on the ledge was bald’. It confirms who she had seen was most likely Karan,” said Zaki.
 
 The morning after Karan’s death, members of the committee informed police of what they encountered on September 5. “Two officers came over on Sunday morning and we narrated everything to them but the witness statements could not be recorded at the time since they were out of town. So we remained silent and were waiting for the witness to return and record what she had seen,” added Zaki.
 
 Calls to Shah went unanswered.
 
 Meanwhile, the managing committee has asked the owner of the 12th floor flat to terminate his lease agreement with Shah who it stated has been “a nuisance to the society” since he moved in a year ago. Residents also approached police on Tuesday, seeking a copy of the first information report (FIR) in Karan’s death, which they said will make it easier for them to evict the Indian-American music producer.
 
 Residents alleged this was not the first time Shah has created nuisance in the society premises. A society member told TOI: “Shah has been a nuisance. He had a fight with residents in December when he called his friends and partied the whole night with loud music. He created a ruckus when society members went to inquire. Then we tried to evict him. But the flat owner had a meeting and in his presence Shah apologized for his act.” When TOI called on Wednesday, Shah’s female friend answered the call and said they were unaware about the termination letter and planned to vacate the flat on their own. She refused to comment further.
 
