The   at Nashik Phata in Bhosari is usually a mundane, bustling hub at which various long distance buses make a quick stop, but last Sunday, the spot turned into a wrestling ring before onlookers knew what was happening.

  was witnessed on May 7 near the Ashoka hotel, when two men, who had just disembarked from a bus, were badly thrashed by an   in broad daylight, even as they sloganeered that the duo had insulted their community.
 
 The whole episode went viral after a witness recorded a video of the altercation on his/her mobile phone and uploaded it to social media.
 
 The two men who were beaten had been travelling in a Shivneri bus from Nashik to Pune, in which they reportedly had a fight with a female passenger. Following this, however, it has been alleged that this girl called in a group of men, who reached the hotel and started thrashing the men in public as soon as they got off. The video that has gone viral shows members of the mob screaming in Marathi and claiming that the duo had misbehaved with a girl from the  .
 
 Following this, one of the two men, identified only as Vishal Sharma, has lodged a complaint against group of four or five unidentified persons as well as the girl. Meanwhile, the girl has filed a counter-complaint of molestation against the two men.
 
 Senior police inspector in charge of Bhosari police station, Keshavrao Kulkarni, told Mirror, “According to the statement by the two men as well as the girl, they were travelling in the same bus from Nashik to Pune. After the bus left from Nashik, the girl started speaking on her phone, while the two men sitting nearby were chatting with each other. Soon, the trio began arguing about who was speaking loudly and disturbing the other party. The fracas turned ugly when both sides began properly quarrelling. In fact, they also told the bus driver to drive to the Sinnar police station. When the bus halted there briefly, the other passengers started complaining that they were getting late due to someone else’s fight and pressured the bus driver to take the bus straight to Pune.”
 
 Cops said that even as the driver continued the journey, the argument between the girl and two men raged. Kulkarni added, “As they were arguing, the girl made some calls and asked a group of men to reach the Ashoka Hotel in Bhosari, where the bus was going halt. They gathered there before the bus arrived and as soon as they saw the duo, thrashed them and said they had misbehaved with her.”
 
 Sharma subsequently approached police to lodge a complaint, based on which a case was filed under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 Police are yet to make any arrest in this case. Kulkarni added, “The girl has also registered a molestation case against the men. Since she alleged that they molested her while at Sinnar, we have forwarded the complaint to Sinnar police for further investigation.”
 
 ¦ The trio argued about who was speaking loudly and disturbing the other party. The fracas turned ugly... the bus also stopped briefly at Sinnar PS
 
 — Keshavrao Kulkarni, SPI, Bhosari PS
 
