NAGPUR: If you have unaccounted cash in old currency, better destroy the notes. The ordinance by the central government makes it a crime to hold more than 10 of the banned Rs1,000 and Rs 500 notes after March. 

 Those hoping to declare it under the Prime Minister   (PMGKY), by March-end, may also be turned down. The disclosure scheme is open till March 31 and it covers undisclosed cash and bank deposits. If it is in old currency, it will not be considered.
 
 Since the RBI is only accepting such notes from NRIs and those who had been abroad from November 10 to December 30, there is a view in the income tax department that the scrapped currency cannot be accepted under the disclosure scheme. 
 
 These points came up during an interactive session on the scheme held between the income tax officers and businessmen here on Tuesday.
 
 The department’s director general investigation, RK Gupta said a detailed discussion was held before the session with businessmen. It was concluded that old currency cannot be accepted even under income disclosure plan because of the RBI’s rule which allows only NRIs and those having travelled abroad to give the scrapped currency.
 
 Gupta heads the investigation wing which conducts raids and surveys. His area of jurisdiction includes entire Maharashtra barring Mumbai.
 
 With even taxmen not accepting disclosure if the cash is in old notes, the only option probably for those left with the notes is to burn it down. 
 
 As holding the notes is illegal, they are likely to be found during income tax raids or even police action. “If source of the cash is not explained by the holder, apart from the fine stipulated in the ordinance, even tax can be levied. This rates of tax under the new regime if caught can go up to 137%,” said Gupta.
 
 However, at the same time if the income tax raids a person’s premises, he can still go ahead with and avail the scheme. “Since the provisions of the scheme are silent on its applicability to those covered under a raid, one can take the benefit,” said Gupta.
 
 Under the disclosure scheme, tax is levied at 49.9% and “after a raid it can go up to 137% even attracting prosecution”. “However, there will be no escape route from April 1 when the scheme ends,” he added. The bar on disclosing the old currency will continue.
 
 The officer also asked the businessmen and chartered accountants to take up certain points with the   (CBDT), the department’s governing body seeking clarifications.
 
 The scheme only covers cash and deposits, the latter includes funds only in banks. “It can be taken up with the CBDT to include funds lying with cooperative societies, clubs, trusts and non-banking finance companies under the ambit of deposits too,” said Gupta. 
 
 Sources said huge funds are expected to be lying in these institutions too. Gupta urged the chartered accountants to seek a clarification on whether the funds kept under PMGKY for a period of four years be offered as a security to the banks. 
 
