GUWAHATI: In a bid to make Assam's panchayat bodies Congress-mukt,   has decided to reach out to each and every household in the rural areas of the state to highlight the achievements of the state government and also promote the welfare schemes announced in the budget. 

 Last week, BJP had a brainstorming session to prepare its members for the upcoming rural polls through which it wants to wrest the panchayat bodies from  . For the saffron party, the panchayat election will complete its journey of victory that started with the   election in 2014, followed by urban local body polls and the assembly election.
 
 In the last panchayat polls in 2013, Congress won more than 266 out of the 420 zilla parishad seats. Congress also won most of the gaon panchayat president posts (1,172) and anchalik panchayat member posts (1,161). BJP insiders said the focus of the session was on the state budget and how to take welfare schemes and government's development plans to the rural masses. 
 
 At the meeting, BJP president   said party members should ensure that each and every aspect of the budget is explained to people. "The state budget is one of the best and people of the state should be aware of the benefits. It is the duty of every party member to make people aware of the schemes and plans outlined in the budget," said Das. 
 
 A special booklet highlighting various schemes and plans of the budget was distributed among party workers.
 
 Finance minister  , who attended the session, said the government is committed to implementing the schemes and plans within the stipulated time. BJP insiders said grassroots workers have been asked to get well versed with government schemes so that they can talk to rural voters in the right perspective.
 
 "The prime task of our grassroots workers will be to intensify mass contact at the rural level to highlight all the welfare schemes our government. The workers have to explain to people that the pace of development will increase manifold when the rural bodies are ruled by the same party which is in power at the Centre and state," said a BJP leader. 
 
