BENGALURU: In a bid to ease vehicular movement in  , the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is all set to develop a 2.4km-elevated corridor between   and Ejipura Junction. The project, first proposed in 2014, has been revived by the civic body, which has floated a tender for a project management consultant — an agency that will supervise implementation of the project. 

 The corridor will connect   in Koramangala 2nd Block to Ejipura Junction. The flyover, which will be built at a height of 5.5m, is expected to halve the travel time between Ejipura and Hosur Road – it currently takes commuters 45 minutes to an hour to cover this stretch. The flyover, which will pass over   Junction and Inner Ring Road Junction, will reduce congestion along the busy Koramangala-Indiranagar stretch.
 
 The project, estimated to cost Rs 200 crore, is likely to take 30 months to complete. The state cabinet gave its approval for the project earlier this month.
 
 AS Ramesh, executive engineer (projects), BBMP, told TOI that the agency was expecting a good response to the tender. “It will be a four-lane bi-directional flyover, which will have an entry ramp at St John’s College, heading towards Domlur. There will also be an exit ramp towards Krupanidhi College to divert vehicles bound for Sarjapur Road,” he added.
 
 The project was first proposed under the JNNURM scheme in 2014. However, the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renweal Mission (JNNURM) scheme was subsequently dropped, leaving the fate of the project shrouded in uncertainty. Although the state government announced the project in the 2015 budget, no funds were earmarked for its implementation. While the cost of the project, when it was proposed nearly three years ago, was estimated to be Rs 168 crore, the delay in implementation has inflated the cost by more than Rs 30 crore.
 
 Tree loss to be minimized?
 
 The proposed  , which comes nearly a month after the controversial   that could have resulted in the loss of more than 800 trees was scrapped, has triggered fears of further depletion of green cover in the city. However, the civic agency is working to minimise the loss of trees, though branches could be pruned.
 
 A senior BBMP official said, “Apart from planting saplings for all trees that will be cut, we will develop a green ribbon along the length of the project.” He added that the project had been revived owing to demand from commuters, fed up with the traffic snarls they have to face along the stretch. “During peak hours, traffic density is very high along this stretch, particularly near Sony World signal,   and  , extending travel time between Domlur Flyover and Koramangala,” he added.
 
 ‘Building more flyovers not the ideal solution’
 
 “Flyovers are, at best, band-aid solutions. The situation in our city is so bad, that we should look for holistic solutions. World over, cities are transforming themselves - by promoting public transport, disincentivizing private vehicles, by re-designing around the principle of moving people and not vehicles. There is no denying that there is serious traffic congestion at Sony World junction. The same could be said about 15 other intersections. The answer is not to build 15 flyovers, by spending thousands of crores and felling precious trees. I believe the government should use the crisis as an opportunity and take drastic steps towards strengthening public transport. Rs 200 Crore could be spent on subsidizing BMTC bus fares for a fixed period of time, and measuring the impact. Research shows that ridership increases when cost decreases. While any flyover will take years, such a bold move will give us instant results that can be analysed and used to chart future course of action to fix our city gasping for breath, choked in the pollution produced by 65 lakh vehicles that move 50 lakh people, while hardly 6100 buses carry 50 lakh people every day.”
 
 -   | Member, Citizens for Bengaluru.
 
