The interviews for the post of head coach of Team India, conducted by three-member Cricket Advisory Committee ( ), have ended at the   headquarters in Mumbai on Monday.

 Ganguly and Laxman attended the meeting in person while Tendulkar, the third member, joined his colleagues on Skype from the United Kingdom. Ganguly, speaking to TIMES NOW, stated that the announcement of India’s new coach will be made by today evening (10th July).
 
  
  
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the CAC will finalise the new   from seven applicants who have applied for the post and former India players   and   and Australian Tom Moody are the front-runners for the job. Speaking to channel, Shastri, had said that he hopes there won't be any petty issues at the last minute.
 
  
  
 
 Shastri, who had earlier served as the Team Director for the Indian cricket team before   became the coach, had decided not to apply for the position this time after the way he was "treated" last year. He agreed to send across his CV to the CAC after Tendulkar convinced him to do so and even since the former India international threw his hat in the ring, he has been the favourite to get the job, owing to his cordial relationship with current India captain Virat Kohli. 
 
 TIMES NOW also reports that, the CAC is likely to interview Shastri, Sehwag, Moody, Phil Simmons, Richard Pybus and Lalchand Rajput with former South Africa international Lance Klusener, kept on stand-by. 
 
 Former coach Kumble had stepped down amid controversial circumstances after a widely-speculated feud with Kohli, marking a bitter end to a highly successful tenure. Kumble's decision comes in the wake of reports claiming rifts between him and Kohli, and just two days after India's embarrassing loss to Pakistan in the Champions Trophy final. It was only the CAC which had picked Kumble as the coach last year.
 
 The team did well under Kumble in the past 12 months, winning Test series in the West Indies (2-0) before winning at home against New Zealand (3-0), England (4-0), Bangladesh (1- 0) and Australia (2-1).
 
 
