AHMEDABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Gandhinagar branch has recovered Rs 75 lakh while probing a   case in which deputy commisioner of  ,  ,   is accused. According to CBI sources, Singh had stashed the money with a businessman friend in Mundra.

 “Singh’s friend had no knowledge about whether the money was from a bribe and hence we have not included him as an accused. We are in the process of identifying another person with whom Singh could have kept money. We request such persons to come before the CBI and disclose if Singh has parked his ill gotten money with them,” added a senior CBI official.
 
 After absconding for a while, Singh was arrested by CBI on September 27. “ While Singh was remanded in CBI custody till October 3, his co- accused, Hiten Thakkar, was arrested by the CBI in the same case,” added a CBI source.
 
 CBI registered a case against Singh and Hiten Thakkar on September 18, for demanding a bribe of Rs 30 lakh from the complainant, a Custom House agent.
 
 “It was alleged that the complainant’s company was hired by an Ahmedabad-based firm and one consignments of the firm was found to contain 27kg of gold in July 2017,” added a CBI source.
 
 CBI officials said that during the probe Singh allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs 40 lakh to clear the names of the relatives of the complainant, including his wife.
 
 “After negotiations, the demand was reduced to Rs 30 lakh and the complainant was forced to pay Rs 10 lakh in July 2017. It was further alleged that Singh contacted the complainant several times for delivery of the remaining Rs 20 lakh and asked him to pay the money to Hiten Thakkar,” a CBI official added.
 
 CBI officials said on receiving the complaint they laid a trap and arrested Thakkar on September 19, when he was accepting the gratification of Rs 20 lakh on behalf of Singh.
 
 According to CBI officials, when a team raided Singh’s house and office in Mundra he escaped and surrendered before the CBI after absconding for a few days.
 
 
