NAGPUR: The initiative of   (IGGMC) to put the status of   on its website for transparency and avoiding inconvenience to relatives and police department has got very good response in the last 10 months. The website www.iggmc.org shows the status of the PM report, whether it is with the college or the respective police station. 

 Dr PG Dixit, professor and head of the forensic medicine department (FMD), told TOI that it took some time for the police as well as relatives to get familiar with the new system. 
 
 But the police first verify the status of the report (ready or not) and then come to collect it from the college hospital. 
 
 “Since FMD is not expected to give the report directly to the relatives, they no longer have to shuttle between police station and the college. On seeing the status on website, the relatives can directly visit the police station to collect the reports. Similarly, the police can no longer harass relatives by misguiding them that the college has not made the report,” he said.
 
 The FMD began loading the status on a weekly basis on the website. At present, the last report was put up on January 29, 2017. “However, our website is yet to be linked to the police website, as promised. 
 
 The issue was raised with the police department during the last meeting with the police commissioner. But the department is yet to take any step in this direction. However, our department’s image has improved a lot with relatives as well as police. This is what we wanted exactly, transparency in the system. In case of unidentified persons, FMD puts up photograph of the person along with the status,” said Dr Dixit.
 
 In routine course, post mortem reports are prepared by the autopsy surgeon and handed over to the police station through the departmental office. These are then collected by relatives from police stations. These reports are mandatory in all insurance and compensation claims, as also in judicial procedures. Many times, it is not possible for the autopsy surgeon to submit a post mortem report immediately after the autopsy, due to incomplete or pending documentation like treatment records, spot panchnama etc
 
 In such cases, the relatives until now had to visit the hospital, only to find out that reports were not ready. Many a times, police would not collect reports but tell relatives that the hospital had not made the report. But now neither the department nor the police can take relatives for a ride.
 
 
