KOLKATA: Director   has completed his documentary on the Moghalmari titled ‘Pratna Ratna’. The ancient site of Moghalmari has been the centre of attention since excavation began in 2002-03 led by professor   of Calcutta University. Historians have confirmed that they had found the key seal that revealed the vihara’s name as ‘Sribandaka Vihara Aryabhikkhu Sangha’ and the inscriptions on it established that the institute was founded and functioned in the 5th-6th centuries, if not earlier. Ganguli talks about why and how he got interested in filming this vihara:

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 I had heard about Moghalmari in West Medinipur when I was making a documentary on   and Royalty titled ‘Mahishadal Memoirs’. I had wanted to visit the excavated site. Needless to say, historical subjects do excite me a lot!
 
 
 
 
 I got it from the locals. Here, I must mention the name of Atanu Pradhan - a local school teacher who is also a part of an NGO called  . This NGO is helping in sensitising people about Moghalmari and its significance. He was also co-ordinating with filmmaker Goutam Ghosh when he had begun working on a film on the site which was not completed. So, Atanu had a lot of Inputs. I also spoke and took the opinions of experts on anthropology and archaeology and consulted historians and those who propagate Buddhism.
 
 
 
 
 I worked on a zero budget with a single assistant. It was produced under my Cinema For A Cause initiative (Simple Cinema...touching lives). We had gone to Moghalmari with a group of friends. It was a one-day trip. The film just happened! Luckily, I was carrying my cameras. There was an assistant around and the support of the locals.
 
 
 
 Both historical travel docus and biopics have their own challenges. Both excite me a lot. As they say, when the going gets tough, the tough gets going!
 
 
 
 
 The film is in English. The target viewership is anywhere in the world. It is not for Bengalis only. The documentary is about the Buddhist heritage/legacy which Bengal had/and should be preserved/explored /excavated/researched upon. My objective to showcase it to the world at large. Youtube is our platform to reach out to the viewers. The awareness about Moghalmari is minimal or nearly non-existent. So, the film could be an ideal tool to communicate about its splendour and significance globally.
 
