NEW DELHI: The Modi government is considering bringing legislation on   in the   with the initiative seen as the next step, after demonetisation, to attack black money. 

 PM Narendra Modi may broach the subject at the all-party meeting that is usually convened by the Centre ahead of a Parliament session. This time, the Budget session is commencing on January 31 with the Budget slated for February 1. BJP sources said Modi, who had spoken of poll reforms in his New Year address and even earlier, was keen to press ahead to counter criticism that not enough had been done to clean up poll financing, a significant source of black money and corruption. The poll reforms may also include measures to shut down “dummy” political parties that hardly contest elections and could be used to launder money. 
 
 Modi had asked parties to shun a “holier than-thou” attitude and come clean on their finances. 
  (The need of the hour for all politicians and parties is to rise above politics and take steps to bring about transparency),” PM Narendra Modi had said. In another public speech, Modi had endorsed the Election Commission’s recommendation to lower the limit for anonymous donations from Rs 20,000 to Rs 2,000. The government is also likely to seek a discussion on   of polls. 
 
 “The PM will seek consent of all parties before legislation is introduced. Since, it involves all parties, consensus will be good for our democracy,” said a BJP leader privy to the discussions on the proposed legislation. 
 
 During a brief address to the media during Diwali ‘milan’ at the BJP headquarters in Delhi earlier this year, Modi had also sought support for simultaneous assembly and Lok Sabha polls, saying this will prevent waste of resources and not disrupt governance. The senior BJP leader’s hint at poll reforms comes amid Modi’s reported view that demonetisation needs to be followed by several steps such as an effective law against benami property and transparency in  . 
 
 Under the existing law, political parties are required to disclose the source of funds above Rs 20,000. However, this rule has been misused with parties across the spectrum claiming that they receive a majority of donations by way of deposits of less than Rs 20,000. Even established parties, including BJP, Congress and Left, are accused of hiding the source of their funding. 
 
 The legislation also intends to weed out political parties that have hardly contested elections and seem to have been formed to avail of income tax exemptions given to registered political outfits. “It will not be possible to furnish details of the expenses on logistics like chairs and plates but we are ready to disclose the source of party funds and expect others will follow suit,” the BJP leader said, adding, “We have already a established trend of sending party fund to candidates through cheques.”
 
 
