PATNA: Do you have backache that springs from the knee via hip? Check your shoes. It may well be possible you are wearing  . 

 This was stated by Dr Rajiv Shah, one of very few   in India, on the sidelines of the   in Patna on Saturday.
 
 Dr Shah, also the vice-chairman of Asia Pacific Foot and Ankle Society, said ill-fit footwear could compress the feet and reduce oxygen supply, causing stress and pain. “In case of children, ill-fit shoes can hamper the growth of bones,” he said.
 
 The doctor has an advice for girls whose “first love” is high- heel footwear. “If you are not suffering from any foot ailment, you can wear half an inch heel, but that too not regularly,” he said, adding high heels could cause ‘hallux valgus’. It is a condition in which the toe gets deformed as the high heels put the entire pressure of the body on the feet’s front portions, toes primarily.
 
 And it is wiser to buy your footwear in the evening. “For, the feet attain maximum size because the blood flow to them is the maximum in the evening,” explained Dr Shah.
 
 In India, ulcer in bones due to diabetis leads to amputation of leg in 35% cases while the corresponding figure in the West is 2%. “Diabetics must regularly, if possible with lens, check their foot for skin discolouration, which can be ulcer of bones that later spreads to the leg,” the doctor said, adding if detected early, it does not require amputation.
 
 Rohtak’s Dr M K Magu, on the other hand, spoke on hip preservation as against  , which is a fad among doctors these days. 
 
 Speaking on the sidelines of the conference, he said, “At least 60% cases don’t require hip replacement. A hip can be preserved through surgeries, and it is advisable because the natural hip is many times more efficient than artificial ones.”
 
 When pointed out it is mostly the doctors who take a call on hip replacement, Dr Magu nodded. “It’s greed at times; ignorance on other occasions. Patients must take a second opinion,” he said.
 
 Kanpur’s orthopaedic surgeon Dr A S Prasad said four adulthood habits could at least delay arthritis in old age. “Take care of posture because bad posture damages cartilage (the soft tissue connecting the bones). If one cannot shun long sitting hours, a 3 to 5-minute walk every an hour is suggested. Second, one must prevent obesity. Enough calcium and   intake are the other two ‘dos’,” he said.
 
 “A daily walk for 2km five days in a week is the best service you can do to your body,” said Dr Prasad.
 
 As for calcium intake, it is important to take it adequately till you reach 30s. For, the human body builds a bank of calcium till 30 years, after which it consumes from that bank. 
 
 “It is especially important for children. Physical exercises help in calcium deposition, but the children these days are hardly into physical exercises,” said Dr B Shivshankar from Solapur.
 
 According to Patna’s orthopaedic surgeon Dr Amulya Singh, who is the organising secretary of the conference, 700-odd delegates and faculty members from UP, Bihar Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Delhi and Rajasthan are attending the conference. The two-day meet will conclude on Sunday.
 
