PATNA: Overall MBBS topper Mansi Kumar made her parents proud with her outstanding performance in academics at the   (PMCH). The 2011 batch student bagged five gold medals for excellence in different fields, including medicine, paediatrics and surgery.

 Expressing delight and sharing her five years’ experience at the PMCH, the 24-year-old told TOI over phone from Delhi that her faculty members, classmates and ex-students were very supportive. “I study eight hours a day and want to pursue MD in paediatrics. I bagged the 937th rank in this year’s National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test for postgraduate courses. While the first counselling will be in the last week of March, the second one will be in April,” Mansi said, adding she learnt a number of things about medicine, surgery and paediatrics during her training period.
 
 Mansi, whose father Ajit Kumar Gandhi is a journalist and mother Veena Gandhi a professor at  , hopes to get a medical college in Delhi so that she can live with her parents. She is the first from her family who chose to become a doctor and is working hard to fulfil her dream. “I always scored well in biology and took up the physics-chemistry-biology combination after class X. Although my parents always wanted me to become a doctor, they never forced me. Without their support, I could not have achieved what I have now,” she told TOI.
 
 The future doctor hails from Ara and completed her schooling from   in Delhi. She secured the 77th rank in the Bihar Combined Entrance Competitive Examinations in 2011. According to her, “Nothing in life is impossible if we work hard. We should follow our dreams and never give up. Even I was not sure if I would do well in the medical entrance exams in my first attempt, but I did.”
 
 Ajit and Veena believe that their daughter is no less than a son. Ajit said, “We are proud of Mansi and will always motivate her to follow her dreams to do well in life. It is wonderful to see that she has achieved so much at a young age.”
 
