INDORE: Wearing their independence on their sleeves and breaking stereotypes, women across different age groups are gearing up to breeze through the city, flaunting  , hot jackets and even chic boots.

 Members of ‘biker girls of Indore’, the first female biker group in Indore, have nowadays started taking   as well as circuit street biking.
 
 Taking inspiration from 23-year-old ace female motocross biker   from Dewas, six young women from the city are gearing up to hit the road for various biking events across the city and country.
 
 Kalyani, who was recently the centre of attention after bagging the 11th spot at the valley run 2017 (a premier drag racing event in Aamby Valley 22) with a timing of 11.94 for a quarter mile, is training women bikers in the city.
 
 “Some of them were completely new to biking and did not know how to ride at all but they were interested and approached me. Others knew the basics but were not professional or confident about their biking skills. So I decided to form this group and practice regularly,” Kalyani said.
 
 “Women interested in long distance biking has picked up pace in metro cities but Indore is still behind other cities, but Indore is still behind on this front. I aim to break stereotypes by training more and more female bikers from Indore,” added Kalyani.
 
 The group has six members and they made their debut at their first biking event here on Sunday. Some are college students while others are working professionals.
 
 Kalyani said some members were interested but could not start biking due to family pressure while some could not get a chance to learn from an expert
 
 The group includes Dimple Chandani and Devyani Sharma who ride Bullets while another member Nandini Verma rides an Avenger.
 
 “It was a new experience for all of us to take part in an event as we were only training till now. We were all very excited about being among expert riders from the city and learning more about biking,” said Dimple.
 
 Kalyani said it has always been in her genes to become a biker as her father was one too. Her first student was her sister.
 
