PUNE: With 51 candidates in a frenzied fight for the four seats, the centrally-located Khadakmal Ali-Mahatma Phule Peth panel has the highest number of candidates in fray. 

 The panel is gearing up for a buzz of election activity over the next week, with campaigns, door-to-door visits and corner meetings planned by the candidates.
 
 Interestingly enough, this panel is the only one in the city to have these many candidates slugging it out. All the other panels have an average of 13 candidates contesting. 
 
 According to official data, all political parties have fielded a full complement of candidates in this panel, driving up the heat.
 
 Ajay Jaju, a resident of Mandai, which is adjacent to Mahatma Phule Peth, said the densely-populated Old City has been witnessing a lot of political activity in the last few days. “The election campaign has gained a lot of momentum here. Candidates and their supporters are out on the streets and have started their home visits. We expect fierce campaigning over the next few days,” Jaju said. 
 
 Political observers say that the panel is a melting pot of communities and castes, enticing political parties to try their luck. The area also has a sizeable population of traders. 
 
 Among the prominent candidates in the fray here are former city mayor Kamal Vyavahare, who is contesting in the open category as a   candidate, BJP’s Samrat Thorat and Ajay Khedekar, both fighting for general category seats. Also in the fray are candidates of the  , AIMIM, Bahujan Samaj Paksha and  . 
 
 Meanwhile, the high number of candidates is keeping election officials on their toes. “Out teams are already on the field, and are keeping an eye on campaign activities,” said officials from the election department.
 
 In all, there 25 are independents or represent small outfits. Of the four seats, two are in the general category while one is reserved for scheduled caste (woman), and one for other backward class (woman) candidates.
 
 Only 15 vie for Shaniwar Peth-Sadashiv Peth panel 
 
 Meanwhile, the Shaniwar Peth-Sadashiv Peth panel, located in the city’s central parts, has 15 candidates in fray for four seats. The panel has the lowest number of candidates, with an average of four candidates for each seat. BJP’s   and Hemant Rasne are the prominent candidates.
 
 
