Coimbatore: Dedicated beat system, installation and connection of more CCTV cameras and storming operations have brought down number of major crimes, save chain-snatching cases, in the first six months of 2017 compared to the same period last year.

 While the major crimes such as murder for gain, attempt to murder, burglary, robbery and rioting have dipped, the chain-snatching cases have gone up from 33 to 37, according to data from the police department. 
 
 “We had undertaken preventive arrests to ensure that all the miscreants were detained under the Goondas Act,” said deputy commissioner (law and order) S Lakshmi. The number of detention under the Act has gone up from 28 in last year to 47 this year. “Apart from this, we have tried to increase the police presence in crowded localities and residential areas. We have asked every inspector to patrol in the morning before they go to their respective police stations. We have also formed patrol teams for specific crime as preventive measures,” added Lakshmi.
 
 Commissioner of police A Amalraj said that they are planning to connect more CCTV cameras to the police control room to reduce the crime rate further. “This year, our aim is to connect CCTV cameras of all schools, colleges, women’s hostels, residential colonies and shops to the police control room to prevent crimes.”
 
 “We also plan to reduce the response time of the patrol vehicles to three minutes whenever a case is reported. Currently, it takes nearly 10 minutes for the vehicles to reach the crime scene. We will reduce it by half by having a dedicated GPS system that will monitor all the patrol vehicles,” said Amalraj. He added that GPS devices will be installed in 100 vehicles and the nearest vehicle will be alerted to ensure that the response time is reduced.
 
 Despite the reduction in the crime rate, the data shows that every 20 hours, at least one theft is committed in the city. Police inspectors when contacted said that it was extremely difficult for them to completely prevent crime. “We are just 15 police stations and we cover a vast area. Somehow, theft cases are reported every day. We are planning to reduce it by increasing community engagement programmes,” said a police officer.
 
 
