NASHIK: With the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation ( ) trimming its services on non-performing routes to cut down on losses and the   (NMC) shying away from starting its own services, the citizens now fear they would be forced to opt for unsafe mode of transports and pay high costs to private players.

 Areas like Makhmalabad, parts of  , Satpur, Ambad, Pathardi Phata, Ozar, Deolali Camp and Bhagur will see frequency of buses being cut down by the MSRTC. The corporation claimed it has been facing loss of Rs 10 per kilometer undertaken by its buses in urban areas as compared to loss of Rs 3 per km on buses running in rural areas.
 
 The citizens are unhappy with the decision as it is going to affect them badly. “Nashik is such a big city and the transport system is pathetic. Neither the civic body nor the MSRTC is bothered about us. The government has also failed on streamlining things,” Sayali Salunke, a medical professional, said.
 
 The citizens believe both organizations are fiddling with the lives and safety of the citizens. “Transportation will take a hit and lead to congestion, accidents and rise in pollution. Who will be responsible for it? The government will have to take certain measures to ensure safety of people who cannot afford personalized transportation,” Revati Kamble, a resident of Ambad village, said.
 
 At Nashik Road, the MSRTC constructed depots at a cost of Rs 4 crore – funds for which were provided during kumbh mela. The infrastructure that can host 200 buses and intended to serve better   movement across the city is now lying unused.
 
 RD Jagtap, MSRTC’s divisional transport officer, said the corporation’s attempt to rope in the civic body to either run the services or contribute to the losses failed following which the services are being trimmed now.
 
 “The MSRTC had 260 buses for the city in 2004 and till today, the numbers have not increased. Instead the corporation is focusing on services outside the city where revenue is better and where people have lesser personalized transportation units. Once the fate of city transport is decided, the use of the infrastructure will also be decided,” he said.
 
 The  , however, said the MSRTC was too rigid in considering views of the citizens and consumer forum to decide on the planning and management of the buses.
 
 “We have been telling them to take consumers, consumer organizations, social organizations, company employees unions into confidence to run buses, but they are too rigid. If the companies can hire private buses for employees why can’t they hire MSRTC buses? The consultation with consumer organizations will only pave way to find what could be best for the citizens,” Vilas Deole, of Grahak Panchayat said.
 
 It should be noted the MSRTC had once started Nashik Road to Shalimar non-stop bus services, around 2011, but that was also discontinued. “The MSRTC officer claimed that the passengers getting down in the numbers of stops in between suffered and hence the services were shelved. “Does it mean that it cannot be explored again ever?” Deole questioned.
 
 “Why the NMC is not using its funds and expertise of MSRTC to run buses by forming a special purpose vehicle (SPV)? This could be as good as the NMC accepting MSRTC-formula with some strings (conditions) attached to it,” said Vivek Kamte, another resident.
 
