New Delhi: With large swathes of land in  , textiles & food parks and other such facilities yet to find takers, the government has decided to put on hold new nodes along the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor Development Corporation (DMICDC), while it puts in place a mechanism to ensure that resources are not provided unnecessarily when existing infrastructure can be tapped.

 A committee has begun to put in place a National Master Plan for Manufacturing Clusters, which will track all such zones across states, map industrial activity and check how land has been utilised. The plan is to include the proposed national manufacturing zones as well as the coastal economic zones that are now being propagated by NITI Aayog vice-chairman Arvind Panagariya, given that SEZs still have vacant plots years after they were set up.
 
 “When land is scarce and acquiring it is not easy, we must avoid wasting the resources,” said an officer. Although the idea came from the department of industrial policy and promotion, a committee of secretaries presented the plan to PM Narendra Modi ahead of the budget, and a committee headed by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant is now working out details of the master plan.
 
 The idea is to map the incentive structure and states have been asked to provide details on a web portal, which uses a geographic information system. States have been given time until month-end to provide the details, including the number of industrial estates that are there and other schemes that they run.
 
 Apart from policymakers, investors too stand to benefit, given that they will be able to view details of available facilities, incentive structure as well as concentration of industry-specific clusters in one place. Going ahead, the government may expand the system to provide single-window clearance too.
 
 “What is happening is that there is a fair bit of duplication. Some sectors may be walking away with all the benefits, while others may need it. This will help keep tabs,” said an officer.
 
 
