NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish   on Sunday said that amendments to the DMC   can be carried out in the assembly itself and there is no need to go to the Parliament for the same. "After 1993, all amendments to the DMC Act have been carried out in the assembly. In 2003, the   rate was reduced to 6% from 10% with an amendment in the assembly. No one went to Parliament for that. Several amendments were made in 2011 without going to Parliament," Sisodia said, adding that "rumours" were being spread to mislead people.

 On Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the Aam Aadmi Party government would do away with property tax on residential units “with immediate effect” if it won the municipal polls, drawing sharp reactions from both BJP and Congress.
 
 On Sunday, Sisodia said: “It’s a carefully thought out decision by AAP. The CM has made an informal announcement and we will implement it after winning the municipal elections.” The   said parties, including BJP and Congress, had reacted in a similar way when AAP announced its move to slash the electricity bill by half and give subsidy on water. “We delivered on our promise to slash the electricity bill by half. Also, over 12.5 lakh households have been supplied water for free,” he claimed.
 
 Both Congress and BJP have cast doubt on AAP’s plans, citing the poor financial health of the corporations. East and north corporations have struggled to pay salaries to their employees on time. The civic bodies get around 30% revenue from house tax. Experts have maintained that waiving the levy is possible only if a law overriding the provisions of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957, is passed in Parliament.
 
 Sisodia, however, said: “Earlier, Congress cited a high court verdict when we promised to reduce power tariff by half. They said that free water would make DJB bankrupt, but the board has earned Rs 178 crore extra after the scheme was implemented.” He claimed that Congress had opposed the move in “connivance with power companies”. Sisodia also accused BJP of establishing a racket wherein corrupt agents extorted money from people in the name of assessment and collection of house tax. “Our decision to waive the tax will be a death blow to these agents,” he added.
 
 “The process of house tax collection is complicated. Corrupt middlemen take advantage of it to harass people,” Sisodia added. He said BJP and Congress should not worry as the common man was happy with the possibility of the levy being abolished. 
 
 
