The families of the   serial blast   and those who survived the trauma with injuries reacted with disbelief, anger and helplessness when the verdict was announced. They said they felt cheated by the system. Many blamed the police for botching up the case, voicing the fear that the verdict would embolden terrorists. Few believed in the innocence of those acquitted. 

 "I waited for over 11 years for what? All these years, we held on to our faith. Now that this door is closed, there is high court. We hope justice is done," said a visibly shocked Celina Das, who lost her only son, daughter-in-law and grandson in the Sarojini Nagar Market blast.
 
 Her granddaughter, Manisha, expressed similar anguish. "Not everybody will understand what it feels like to live without your parents and brother. They were with me during the day, and by evening they were gone, forever. My loss can never be made up for but I wanted to see the men who were behind the attack hanged to death," she said. 
 
 Kiran Saluja, wife of the owner of Shyam Juice Corner, Lal Chand Saluja, said she was deepy hurt. "People like these will destroy more homes. All three of them should have been hanged. I can’t figure out why the police could not collect enough evidence in so many years," she said.
 
 Ashok Randhawa of South Asian Forum For People Against Terror, who has helped and fought cases on behalf of the 2005 victims in the past 12 years, looked devastated. "I had a close shave at Sarojini but saw many of my friends die before my eyes. How could they let those people walk free after such a delay."
 
 "Is this the rule of law in our country? Over 60 people die and the accused have collectively got 10 years of punishment," exclaimed Kuldeep Singh, the heroic driver of a DTC bus who saved almost 70 lives in the Govindpuri blast but lost his eyesight as the bomb went off. "Law demands evidence (kanoon to saboot mangta hai). It must be the fault of the police. People who are responsible for such acts should have been hanged in a public square so that their controllers got the right message. But what can we do?"
 
 Vinod Poddar, the Supreme Court employee who lost his 7-year-old child, Karan, and got maimed in the blast, seemed to have lost hope in the process. "What should I say? Nothing will change due to us saying anything. If they go to the high court, it will take another 5-10 years and then they will argue that they are too old to be punished." 
 
 When this reporter broke the news to Mukesh, brother of S Ganeshan who could never be found after the Sarojini blast, he expressed shock. 
 
 
