SULTANPUR: At his first election rally as the party chief, Akhilesh Yadav chose to come clean on the recent feud within  's first family, describing it as his struggle in the interest of the people. The battle was long and fought at different levels, but it had to be fought to uphold socialist values, he said addressing a public meeting at Motihar area in  . 

  "You all must have read about the recent battles that we Samajwadis have fought ... this was a struggle in the interest of you all," he said at the rally held at Shehpur Lapta grounds. Countering the remarks of some opposition leaders, he said: "Other people have their own takes on it, but for us it was for the sake of samajwad". 
 
 Akhilesh was involved in a protracted tussle with his father and party patriarch   and uncle   for control over the party and its symbol. Curtains came down on the high voltage drama that lasted over four months, after the   recognised Akhilesh as the party's national president on January 16. Though the SP founder's photographs have been a routine at all party functions all this while, at the public meeting in Sultanpur, Shivpal Yadav's photograph also appeared alongside that of senior leaders Azam Khan and Ram Gopal Yadav.
 
 Speaking on the SP-Congress alliance for the first time, he said the tie-up has emerged as a formidable combination and together the two parties will win over 300 seats in the assembly polls. "It is good that SP and Congress have come together now. On our own we could have won more than 200 seats, but now we shall cross the 300-mark" he said. The tie-up will help both the parties to improve on their vote base in Uttar Pradesh, he added.
 
 A major part of his 20-minute speech was devoted to attacking BJP. Lambasting the Central government he said that in the name of 'achhe din', people have been made to hold broom and perform yoga. On demonetisation, he said the decision had hurt the poor the most. "People have died while standing in queues to withdraw their hard-earned money from ATMs and banks and it was only the SP government in UP which extended help," he said talking of the compensation extended to those who died while standing in lines.
 
 Outlining the party's election manifesto, Akhilesh said the SP government has launched schemes for all sections of the society without any discrimination whatsoever. "We have helped the Muslims and extended help to others as well," he said adding that the government schemes have been so popular that people should not be surprised if the Centre incorporates some of these schemes in the Union budget to be presented on February 1. Appealing for votes in favour of party candidate and sitting MLA from Sultanpur Arun Verma, Akhilesh also sought support for minister and sitting MLA from Amethi, Gayatri Prajapati, 
 
