MUMBAI: The realty metamorphosis sweeping the suburbs, turning thousands of old residential buildings into taller, new structures, has left out those that stand under the four pathways marked by the 800-odd flights that enter and exit Mumbai daily. When an airport is built within a city, 
  ensure the buildings that fall under the shadow of aircraft remain stunted forever. Which is why the fate of about 3.6 lakh residents who live in the 6,000-odd buildings in Vile Parle, Santacruz, Kurla and Ghatkopar that fall under the aircraft approach paths is different from those who reside elsewhere in the city. Due to height restrictions, no builder will take up their buildings for reconstruction. If left to their own fate, a decade from now, some of these dilapidated buildings would begin to collapse. 

 Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) flight safety norms dictate no building that stands under the funnel zone — the imaginary conical path that extends outwards and upwards from the two ends of a runway — should grow tall enough to come close to the flight paths. Which is why none of these “airport-affected buildings,” as they can be called, is being taken up by builders for redevelopment. 
 
 The reason is, these are buildings that fall under what’s called the airport funnel zone: an imaginary, conical tunnel that extends outwards and upwards from the shorter two ends of the rectangle-shaped runway. Like a hollow ice-cream cone with some portion near its pointed tip cut off. Each runway end has such a funnel, which is an obstacle-free path for aircraft to descend onto or climb from the runway. Since Mumbai airport has two runways, it has four runway ends and so four funnels. Those that stand closest to the runway end are ground-plus-one-storey structures, and those at the farther end, which is up to 4km into the funnel, are allowed to grow up to five storeys.
 
 Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) flight safety norms dictate no building or structure that stands under the funnel zone should grow tall enough to cut into these flight paths or even come closer to them. Which is why none of these “airport-affected buildings,” as they can be called, are being taken up by builders for the conventional reconstruction project that has aided the reincarnation of millions of old Reinforced Cement Concrete (RCC) buildings elsewhere in the suburbs. For, these buildings cannot be built taller. So the builder can’t add extra flats to recover construction cost, let alone make a profit. 
 
 Architect and valuer Shrikrishna Shevade said the government must recognize the unique nature of the problems of funnel zone buildings and mark these structures under the ‘Public Infrastructure Affected Zone.’ “The government could make provisions under which builders who take up reconstruction of these buildings would be given TDR (transfer development rights) to recover cost of construction,” he added. Vishwajit Bhide, a founder-member of ‘Mumbai Airport Runway Funnel Zone Residents Association’ said: “The government has given a TDR of 4 for redevelopment of slums, BDD chawls and Mhada buildings. Why can't we be provided with such a solution?” 
 
 The funnel zone buildings are aged between 30-60 years (the oldest one is 1932-built) and have outlived the 30-year healthy lifespan of RCC structures as defined by the National Building Code, the guidelines for regulating building construction across India.
 
 “The average plot size in Vile Parle is 500 sq m and it would cost the residents about Rs12.5 crore to demolish, move into rented accommodations and reconstruct them,” says Shevade. It’s not a viable option for the middle-class population that resides in these buildings, a majority of whom are senior citizens. Foreseeing the dead-end ahead, Bhide, Shevade and two others formed the Association last year to group the affected residents together. “It’s like a ticking bomb. Are we waiting for these dilapidated structures to cave in?” he asks.
 
 What angers the residents is that hutment dwellers across the Western Express Highway have got a better deal. The 4 lakh airport slumdwellers who encroached on about 300 acres of airport land will be moved into bigger flats located within 3km radius of their current homes as per the 2007 National Rehabilitation and Resettlement policy. “One local politician suggested we should be rehabilitated in Dahisar. We’re tax-paying citizens. Is that why we don’t have any rights?” asks Bhide.
 
 The residents in Vile Parle and Santacruz are also in the forefront of the campaign to create awareness about the plight of all the affected, including those in Kurla and Ghatkopar. The average voting percentage here is about 60%, and the area has one of the oldest cultural organizations in the city, the Lokmanya Tilak Seva Sangh, formed in 1921, which was followed by a Marathi medium school in 1922. On July 18, they gathered their counterparts from the central suburbs, and about 700 of them were taught (complete with paper-made cones stuck to an airport runway model) the concept of funnel zones. The group has been knocking on doors that matter as well. 
 
 Architect Shevale said in January, the group met civic commissioner Ajoy Mehta in the presence of development plan department officials. The commissioner agreed the funnel zone buildings should be notified as “public infrastructure affected zone” and the government should make pragmatic provisions for financially viable redevelopment of these buildings, he said. Like offering builders who take up reconstruction TDR rights to recover construction cost. Mehta was not available for comment.
 
 Meanwhile, with each passing monsoon, the walls of the poorly-maintained buildings (some are comparatively well-maintained) get damper, the ceilings leak, and the concrete falls off to reveal corroded, metal skeletons. The road-resurfacing work carried out by BMC over decades has raised the level of roads by 4-5 ft to bring the pavements in close proximity of ground-floor windows, which also leaves these low-lying building compounds inundated during monsoon. From the ground, the accumulated rain water seeps into the foundation, weakening it and from up above the screaming aircraft, especially landing and departing fighter jets, dump turbulence in their wake, sending the window panes rattling. Just when they thought it couldn’t get worse, last month, the Indian aviation regulator issued demolition notices to 70 structures. As reported by TOI, some of these are buildings built in the 1960s and should have been demolished and reconstructed over a decade ago. 
 
