BENGALURU: Once a strip of heaven on earth for batsmen, the nature of the M Chinnaswamy Stadium has now changed beyond recognition. It's no longer a bowler's graveyard.  , who won the title at this venue last season, will be acutely aware of that detail - that the technique and skill of their batsmen will be tested to the fullest - when they take on   in the   Eliminator game on Wednesday.

 "This season the Bengaluru wicket has been a lot different to what it used to be. It was challenging," Royal Challengers Bangalore all-rounder   said. Not that there are any demons in the track. The nature of the strip changed when the square underwent some 'corrections' recently. That process began in June last year and the wicket was tested and readied in time for the India-England T20 in February. Striving for a better balance in the contest between bat and ball, curators reduced the thickness of the layer soil (6-7 inches of the profile). As a result, bowlers are extracting some juice from the wicket, although it hasn't offered much in terms of turn for the spinners.
 
 This season is the first instance where a century hasn't been scored in the league stages of the IPL at the M Chinnaswamy despite its short boundaries. It is also only the second time in a decade that no team has crossed the 200 mark. While the highest team total at the venue has been 1618 by Rising Pune Supergiant, RCB's Travis Head's unbeaten 75 in the same match remains the highest individual score.
 
 All this at a venue where the first IPL century was scored.  , turning out for KKR, slammed an unbeaten 78-ball 158 in the League's opening contest in 2008. In fact, 11 off the 44 IPL centuries have come at this venue.
 
 After the second Test of the India-Australia series in March, ICC match referee Chris Broad had given the pitch a 'below average' rating observing the variable bounce offered by the turf.
 
 Speaking about playing at the Chinnaswamy pitch, an international player who played at the venue recently pointed out, "I think the wicket is still settling down and the cracks are surfacing a little early because of the heat. That aside, it is a competitive surface, a far cry from the paata wicket of the past. Batsman can score big on this wicket if they get their timing, angles and reading right. A classic example of this is Sunil Narine's blinder (17-ball 54) against RCB. It was not a case of pinch-hitting. Narine found the gaps and timed the ball well. So going into the last two matches here, the batsmen ought to remember that this pitch does not offer freebies. 
 
