CHENNAI: It looks like a case of ‘wedding solemnised, but differences remain’. It’s a month since the ruling   (EPS) and   (OPS) factions merged in  , but a section of leaders, especially from the erstwhile OPS camp, are said to be sulking without positions or posts.

 The issue first came to the fore in the party’s General Council meeting held in Chennai last Tuesday. As per the party’s norm, only the state level office bearers would get a seat on the dais. This created a problem in accommodating prominent leaders from both factions on the dais, as the party restructuring, post the merger, is yet to take place and the organisers could accommodate only a few from the OPS faction on stage.
 
 “Only OPS, Ma Foi Pandiarajan, Semmalai and Ponnaiyan could be accommodated initially. However, Maitreyan sought the intervention of EPS to get himself seated on the stage. But several others including K P Munusamy, Natham K Viswanathan, Manoj K Pandian and Raja Kannappan had to be seated in the front rows at the council meet and this did not go down well with them,” an AIADMK leader, on condition of anonymity, told TOI.
 
 The seating arrangements and prominence in invitations for party and government functions are becoming an issue that organisers have to deal with, even as the attention now shifts to finding a place in the steering committee being proposed to govern the party.
 
 “There are fissures and certain leaders are upset. But, they should understand that the priority initially was to convene the general council and expel V K   for which OPS launched his ‘dharma yudh’. The next focus will have to be on approaching the   and retrieving the party and its two leaves symbol. Party restructuring will happen, but it will take some time,” an AIADMK party spokesman said.
 
 “It is not some leaders, but almost all in the OPS camp are upset. The scenario prior to January, 2017 was different, where a set of leaders were handling things. After the revolt of OPS, a major set of leaders extended support and functioning as a team of lieutenants leading the battle on the ground. We were handling a few districts each, informally. Post the merger, naturally there is a feeling of let down,” a senior leader in the OPS camp told TOI.
 
 “May be, prior to January, 2017, we were lesser mortals. But, that has totally changed in the intervening months. Seniors have to be accommodated soon in important posts to give the merger a real meaning. Otherwise, it will look like a merger only between EPS and OPS,” he said.
 
 “While many leaders did not participate in Anna birthday celebrations on September 15 due to lack of this realization, the next big occasion is on October 17, the party’s Foundation Day. Hopefully, things will be sorted out by then,” he added.
 
