PUDUCHERRY: A vacation bench of   comprising Justice   and Justice M Govindaraj issued notices to the Union human resources development ministry and Puducherry government to file counters by May 24 following a   litigation by a student from   of Puducherry   praying for a direction to the ministry to fill up the VC post of  . Kumar had also sought for a convocation for students who passed out in academic year 2015-16.

 Pointing out relevant clauses of University grants commission (UGC) regulations, 2008, Kumar said ‘the degree award dates shall be within 180 days of the dates by which the students are expected to qualify and become eligible for them’. He also said UGC secretary sent letters to all universities declaring that the period of 180 days is more than sufficient to perform the task, which constitutes one of the most fundamental and primary duties of a university.
 
 “It is understandable that withholding degree of a student, who has successfully completed his tenure in the institution of his enrolment, for whatever reasons, amounts to constraining opportunities of a student. UGC has taken a serious view of this issue and will be constrained to take punitive actions against the university,” UGC secretary said in his letter urging the universities to facilitate smooth and timely entry of students in the world of possibilities and promises.
 
 Pondicherry University has not conducted convocation for students, who passed out in the academic year 2015-16 for more than a year. There are more than 50,000 students in 97 colleges affiliated to the university including 10,000 students in distance education mode. The current strength of students studying in university is over 6,500. The petitioner said he learnt that university did not conduct the convocation for the only reason that the process of selection of regular vice-chancellor is going on.
 
 “The inaction by the university in not conducting convocation for more than a year is directly violative of dictum of UGC regulations. The non-appointment of a regular vice-chancellor for university by the ministry for about two years severely hampers the interest of the students of the Union territory and the society at large,” Kumar said.
 
 He argued that several vital policy matters including 25% reservation for Puducherry students in all courses offered by the university and filling up of vacant teaching and non-teaching positions have not been taken as the ministry failed to appoint a full time vice-chancellor for the last two years.
 
 The ministry, which appointed Chandra Krishnamurthy as vice-chancellor in February, 2013 for a five-year term, kept her under compulsory wait in August, 2015 following charges of plagiarism and misrepresentation of facts while applying for the post. The ministry appointed Anisa Basheer Khan as vice-chancellor (in-charge) in August, 2015. The ministry sacked Chandra Krishnamurthy after charges against her were proved in July, 2016.
 
