HYDERABAD: The state government is inching closer to implementing a penalty point system to check  , but vehicle owners have reason to breathe easy. They will not face punishment or accumulate negative points if someone else with a valid licence is caught violating rules using their vehicle.

 The state government issued a preliminary notification for the penalty point system on September 22. As per it, motorists will be awarded demerits for various traffic offences. If a person accumulates 12 penalty points, his or her licence is to be suspended for a year.
 
 In the notification, the government had sought objections and suggestions from the public. Several people wrote to the transport department seeking clarification on whether they would face the music if someone else indulges in rash driving using their vehicles.
 
 The question assumes significance as over 7 lakh vehicles in the state have been sold to second or third generation owners without official transfer of ownership.
 
 DCP (traffic)   said the police have written to the transport department, clarifying that penalty points will be awarded only to the person driving the vehicle.
 
 “In the first phase, we plan to implement the penalty point system on the basis of spot-checking. We are updating the software to record the demerit history of motorists based on their driving licence,“ he said.
 
 A final notification would be issued in a month, said  , principal secretary, transport department. “We are trying to look into every objection and suggestion made by the public,“ he said.
 
 Experts say certain loopholes need to be fixed.“Currently, if driving licence is suspended in Telangana, the motorist can go to any other state to obtain a new one, provided he or she manages to get a local address proof. This should be checked. The system should be such that a motorist fails to get licence anywhere in the country until the suspension period gets over,“ said T  , a retired scientist from the Central Road Research Institute.
 
