NAGPUR: The All India Council for Technical Education’s ( ) single engineering entrance examination would be conducted multiple times in a year. Even the aspirants would be able to appear in all versions and their best score would be taken into the consideration, as per sources from the joint director of technical education’s office.

 Confirming the new development, AICTE chairman   told TOI that initially it would be held at least for two times. “Multiple means any number of times, and it could be even three to four times in a year. But it could be held only after required infrastructure is in place,” he said.
 
 This single entrance exam would be conducted from 2018 and would supersede all existing entrance tests for all colleges in the country. The AICTE chief informed that only Join Entrance examination (JEE) (advanced) would be allowed to continue for admissions into Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs).
 
 He however added that dates couldn’t be finalized as they were yet to finalize the testing agency which would conduct the test. The other common entrance exams like JEE and advanced are conducted by the Delhi-based Central   (CBSE). Even the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions to first year medical and dental courses, and previously conducted All India Engineering Entrance Examination (AIEEE) are conducted by the same agency.
 
 However, union finance minister Arun Jaitley announced in the February budget that ‘National Testing Service’ would be established to conduct entrance examinations for type of courses across the country. “We’re yet to finalize the testing agency, so exam dates couldn’t be fixed at the moment. But we’re in the process to finalize soon,” Sahasrabudhe said.
 
 Earlier, the apex body cleared the regulation on conducting single test following directives from the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). The test would be conducted under AICTE Act, which would made it mandatory for all states to conduct the exam. Some states like Tamil Nadu had opposed it, as they grant admissions on the basis of class XII score, sources informed.
 
 Earlier, joint director of technical education in   told TOI that MHT-CET, which would be conducted for admissions into engineering, pharmacy and other courses on May 11, would be conducted for the last time, as AICTE would be coming up with single entrance exam from next year.
 
 Sources added that once the Maharashtra government had conducted admission on the basis of JEE, but after facing staunch opposition from the students and parents, it reverted back to MHT-CET. Even the private college managements, mostly owned by politicians, played crucial role in this decision, as engineering vacancies touched alarming levels, forcing the government to take back MHT-CET route where even 1/200 could guarantee admissions for the students.
 
 
