Is that an auto ride or a stand-up act? No, that's K Chandu. With one hand raised above his head and the other clutching a microphone, a freeze-frame Chandu grins from his auto which is plastered with posters of himself. It reads 'Haasya Samrat' (king of laughter) and a constant reminder of the man 'K Chandu' stage name for Chandrakant Kapse who has taken it upon himself to relieve traffic stress with his art of being funny as he uses his vehicle to "advertise" his skills, score gigs and test comic routines on unsuspecting riders. 

 For a curious bunch of foreigners, he unleashed a female falsetto and masqueraded as an English-speaking woman bargaining with an auto-wallah. In splits, his passengers filmed his antic that has garnered over 850 views till date on YouTube. 
 
 Not bad for an auto driver turned jokesmith from Sausuddi, a village in Belgaum, who began by performing at political roadshows and community celebrations before arriving in Mumbai 23 years ago to find his calling. "I wanted to be an actor," says Chandu. 
 
 There is a small chance you may have seen Chandu as a villain's henchman in one of the K-soaps or in a purple gown and large breasts playing a woman in a Hindi B-movie. His relentless wait outside the studios also fetched him a Marathi news show that he anchored for about a month. 
 
 When he ran short of acting gigs, he decided to go back to his funny side and for the last 10 years, Chandu has been a mini celebrity at community festivals, malls, private parties and eco drives in not just Mumbai but Jodhpur, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kolhapur and Sangli, averaging five shows a month and logging over "700 stand-up comedy shows" till date. 
 
 Chandu dropped out of school in his teens but unintelligent he isn't. At a time when carefully scripted comic acts are flourishing, it's rare to see a comedian with a natural flair for cracking up his audience in Hindi, Marathi, Bhojpuri, Kannada, Gujrati and English with witticisms about the world he encounters every day - amorous couples in autorickshaws to Baba Ramdev's suspiciously black beard. When the rupee nosedives and onion prices shoot up, laughter resonates. While his act is more mimicry than comedy, you never know what he's going to do next - switching between 50 different voices - sometimes Mithun Chakraborty, sometimes a baby goat, buffalo, or parrot and sometimes a motorbike on high accelerator. 
 
 His snappy poise as a comedian has often helped the funny man dodge a traffic fine. "When cops ask me for my license, I tell them a joke," he beams, half-afraid to face people not like himself. 
 
 "On the spot, my jokes come automatically," he says showing off his wardrobe of satin blazers, sequined waistcoats, fedoras and half a dozen sunglasses at his rented one-room house in a Mankhurd chawl where he lives with his wife and 14-year-old son. 
 
 Ask him about his inspiration in a life that isn't easy and he snaps back: "Why do you think I replaced posters of Gods and heroes with my own? I came from a village to the city for the world to see me. You came looking for me. Phir inspiration kaun?" 
 
