NOIDA:   is finally out. In a major administrative reshuffle on Wednesday, the Yogi Adityanath government shunted the 1987-batch IAS officer out of   and put him on the wait list.  , the commissioner of Meerut range, has been given the additional charge of   Authority chairman.

 Mayawati had made Rama Raman the CEO of the Greater Noida Authority in 2010. Three years later, Akhilesh Yadav promoted him as chairman of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway authorities and the CEO of Noida. However, he was designated as only Noida CEO in July 2016 after the Allahabad high court had frozen his powers. A month later, he was relieved as Noida CEO and kept in waiting. But he was reappointed as chairman of Noida Authority in October.
 
 The major reshuffle comes three weeks after Yogi took over as chief minister. In all 20 senior IAS officers have been transferred. The list includes officers who either worked in the CM secretariat or held key positions in the SP government. Apart from Raman, Navneet Sehgal, who was principal secretary, information, and Anita Singh, principal secretary to CM, have been put on the waiting list.
 
 Alok Sinha, who has also been appointed as principal secretary (industrial development) in Raman’s place, is already familiar with the region. This is Sinha’s third stint in Noida. He was earlier deputy CEO of Noida Authority from 1998 to 1999 and managing director of Footwear Design and Development Institute, Noida, from 1999 to 2005.
 
 A 1986-batch UP cadre IAS officer, Sinha was the chairman of Airports Authority of India in 2014 and also served as joint secretary in the civil aviation ministry, while on central deputation.
 
 Well-versed with the area and its advantages, Sinha, is likely to steer the region towards revival of industrial development besides bringing in investment. Speaking to TOI, Sinha said he would take charge in Lucknow on Thursday after which he would list out his priorities for the region.
 
 Besides Raman, Deepak Agarwal, CEO of Noida and Greater Noida authorities, and Vijay Kumar Yadav, vice-chairman of Ghaziabad Development Authority, have been transferred. Both of them have been put on the wait list.  , investment commissioner of Uttar Pradesh, has been given the additional charge of Noida and Greater Noida CEO, while GDA has been left headless for the time being.
 
 Prasad, a 1989-batch IAS officer, was earlier the additional CEO of Greater Noida Authority, though for a short span.
 
 
