Beauty and makeup has no rules, and we love how people are treading boundaries with new trends practically every day. Makeup is one of the many ways we use to express our creativity.  ,   and   are the birthplace of all sorts of weird beauty trends. It makes us feel like we have seen everything, until, of course, something new pops up. Social media has, no doubt, even given rise to weird trends that not only test one’s creativity, but also boldness. Here are some bizarre beauty trends that are currently hot online. Check them out and let us know if you have tried any of them.

 
 
 Worried about your eyebrows looking too normal? If yes, then stop what you are doing and grab a pencil. Because apparently the coolest way to have your eyebrows right now is in the shape of squiggly lines. You can even add colourful shadows to make it stand out. The trick is to use PVA glue and flatten your eyebrows on one side and then use a concealer and pressed powder to hide your brows. Then, use a pencil or gel liner to draw on squiggly lines. 
 
 
  
 
 
 It takes a champion to make perfectly-crafted eyebrows. If you thought that Madonna’s microblading technique is the weirdest   hack, wait till you have a look at the feather eyebrows. The #Featherbrow look is intended to make your eyebrows to look like actual feathers. This trend was actually started as a joke, but caught on like wildfire by Instagrammers. The result: Everyone’s doing their own version of it now.
 
 
  
 
 
 There is a lot of complex nail art on Instagram, most which a regular person would not try. This is because it requires professional skills or simply because it’s too weird to be worn in everyday life. Well, in that case this trend nails both. An artist drew her own face on her nails, with perfectly drawn eyes, nose,   and a different expression for each nail. What else is left? Dangling hair, of course. Can’t have yourself looking bald now, can you?
 
 
  
 
 
 If the squiggly eyebrow’s made its way into your heart, then give a wave to its new look, in which makeup artists turn their lips into wavy and squiggly edges. The trick is to extend squiggles past the line of your lips to create an exaggerated wave. It looks better when tried with bold colours.
 
 
  
 
 
 We have seen a lot of crazy trends throughout the years, but this one has definitely gone overboard. Picture the scruffiest lollipop eater you know — that is what this trend aims at conquering. Yes, as bizarre as it sounds, this look is the aftermath of smudging lipstick outside the area of one’s lip to resemble the sticky excess that come after sucking on a lollipop.
 
