BHUBANESWAR: Flag Code of India clearly states that a damaged or dishevelled national flag should not be displayed. But the state government that tom-toms of its achievement over the successful conduct of Asian Athletics Championship here, has not cared a hoot about the law and left the national flag damaged. 

 The dishonour to national flag can be seen along Jayadev Vihar—Kalinga Stadium route where the sports department had hoisted hundreds of national flags of India and other Asian countries, whose athletes participated in the three-day championship. While some flags have accumulated dust, others lie untidy, torn and stuck amid overhead electric wires. Though the mega Asian Athletics Championship ended on July 9, the department authorities have done precious little to dismantle the national flags with dignity. 
 
 “Since the state government conducted the championship and carried out massive promotional activities, I must say it is the duty of the government to respectfully dismantle or dispose the national flag. I hope the government is aware of the Flag Code of India. I wonder why they have not dismantled the flags,” retired   high court justice A S   told TOI. 
 
 According to the penal provision of Flag Code of India, anyone, who violates the law or dishonours the national flag, will attract three years of imprisonment and fine. Sources said some local citizens have written to the commissionerate police about the insult shown to the flags. “Everyone chants Jhhanda Ucha Rahe Hamara. But our flags did not fly high along Jayadev Vihar—Kalinga Stadium route. The government authorities should realise their mistake,” read a complaint by one Sujit  . 
 
 “Is it not an offence according to the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950 and Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act, 1971? Is it not a violation of the Flag Code of India, 2002,” asked Kar. 
 
 The Flag Code of India said paper or plastic flag should not be discarded or thrown on the ground and should be disposed of in private consistent with the dignity of the flag. “We had engaged a private agency to places the flags of participating nations in the event. The agency was asked to dismantle the flags at the end of the event. We will take note it,” said a sports department officer.
 
