CHENNAI: Two children have died of dengue in Chennai and its outskirts since Sunday , and nearly 900 hospitalised with high fever. Of those admitted to various hospitals with fever, public health officials say, 40 are infected with the dengue virus.
On Monday , around 6.30pm, Krithik Ram, the 8-year-old son of a police inspector, died at Apollo Children's Hospital of liver failure after being diagnosed with dengue. While the hospital spokesman said he tested positive for dengue, health officials said they were yet to see the test results.
 
 “The clinical signs hint at dengue, but we can't confirm till we see the results and the person's case history ,“ said   , director of public health.
 
 The boy's father Ranjith Kumar is with the crime wing of the Neelankarai police and the family stays at the police quarters in Kilpauk. On Sunday morning, V Bhargav, a student of DAV school in Gopa lapuram, died of multiple-or gan failure at Kanchi Kamakoti Childs Trust Hospital where he was referred to after receiving treatment at two other private hospitals.
 
 City health officer Dr N Senthilnathan, while acknowledging that the nine-year-old tested positive for dengue, said he also suffered from a blood disorder that exacerbated the condition. “We need a fever audit to ascertain the cause of death,“ he said.
 
 A team of sanitary inspectors who had visited the boy's house in   last week -after he was admitted to the hospital with high fever -found a discarded container on the terrace with larvae of Aedes mosquitoes, the vector that transmits dengue virus. “We had stepped up surveillance in the locality , including conducting door-to-door inspections, as there were quite a few fever cases. But some families resisted,“ said a Greater Chennai Corporation official. On Friday morning, Prem Avinash, a third year student of IIT-Madras, died of multiple-organ failure after being diagnosed with dengue.
 
 Since January ,   has reported more than 7,000 cases of dengue -the second highest in the country after Kerala -and more than 16 deaths. Aedes mosquitoes usually breed in clean stagnant water. The warning signs of the viral fever include high temperature, rashes, headache, joint pain and body ache. At a later stage it can cause drop in blood platelet levels, internal bleeding, haemorrhagic shock and death.
 
 Greater Chennai Corporation has mapped 179 neighbourhoods in 32 areas where more people are reporting dengue-like symptoms, including fever. Surveillance has been heightened in Adyar, Mylapore, Kodambakkam, KK Nagar, Virgumbakkam, Vyasarpadi and Ekkatuthangal. The civic body has also fined close to 60 property owners after repeated awarnings to remove breeding grounds for mosquitoes went unheeded.
 
