NAGPUR: The 51st Pt Shridhar Parsekar memorial music fest is a shining example of continuation of the much-cherished guru-shishya parampara. Organized by Pravin, Parag and   at their 200-year-old residence, Kaole Wada in Mahal, the event also coincided with the third death anniversary of their father Pt Vishnupant Kaole, a violinist who learnt from Pt Shridhar Parsekar.

 The first day of the two-day fest opened with a violin recital by  , a disciple of Pt Vishnupant Kaole who started with raag Yaman. “This music concert is like a sacred ritual and playing here is a divine blessing,” she said. 
 
 The others to perform were Avinindra Shewlikar on sitar, vocal by   from Indore, tabla recital by Ramindrasingh Solanki from Bhopal and Parag Kaole who works in Australia but flies down to play at this event.
 
 Adding to the charm was the traditional baithak style setting in the courtyard spread around a well, a bird cage and Tulsi plants all under a huge bel tree. Incessant chirping of birds and the orange hues of sunset added a picturesque tinge to the atmosphere. The chatter about music, raags and musicians made it apparent that the listeners were equally learnt. 
 
 “This is a unique baithak where performers and audience come with devotion and love for music. Accomplished and upcoming artistes perform here,” said kirtankaar   who learnt violin from Pt Kaole.
 
 It was in 1963 that Vishnupant had first invited his guru Pt Parsekar to Nagpur for a small concert which was held in a room on the first floor of the wada. 
 
 “Parsekar passed away the very next year and my father decided that he would hold a music concert in his memory every year. From 1964 to 2013 the year when father passed away, this concert has been held every year,” said violinist Pravin Kaole who along with his brother Parag learnt the instrument from their father. Paucity of funds forced Vishnupant to keep the scale of the concert modest.
 
  “It was always held in the house and the father would himself make the mandap and do decorations,” says Pravin, who is an auditor at AG office. “The performers and those who attend this programme do not want the venue to shift as they find peace in this serene environment,” he adds.
 
 Soaking in the atmosphere was violinist Indradeep Ghosh who runs music academies in Houston and Austin in USA. “I have flown down to perform here as this is a very old music fest and there can be nothing better than to play at the residence of a music maestro. The vibes are excellent as it is all so close to nature,” he said.
 
