AURANGABAD: Winter is at its peak in the city and the   with shops and establishments downing shutters earlier than usual, leaving the 25   the only ones on the roads. 

 They generally spend their nights on the pavements, outside the temples,   because the authorities concerned have been turning a blind-eye towards their condition. The minimum temperature on Friday was 8.4 degrees celsius. 
 
 According to the NGOs, several homeless people are taken to night shelters during the winters. A few of them, who are allegedly mentally-ill, do not cooperate with the NGOs and refuse to move to the shelters or even accept food. 
 
 President of Jeevan Jagruti Medical Society Farukh Patel said that his NGO has been trying to provide shelter to these 25 people for the past few days. “Recently, we conducted a survey in this regard and found that these persons cannot be taken to the night shelters as they need to be sent to the nearest mental hospital, which is located in Pune. We tried to take them to the hospital, but the police failed to provide us with any required assistance,” he said.
 
 Patel said that generally, such homeless people are produced before the court by the police, so that they can be sent to the mental hospital. “But the police authorities are shying away from their responsibilities. When we approached the police, they did not respond in a desired manner. We had no other option but to leave them on the streets,” he said. 
 
 When contacted, Aurangabad police commissioner Amitesh Kumar said that he was unaware about people spending their nights in the street. However, he added that the police will take appropriate action if they are spotted.
 
 Recently, the district legal services authority, Aurangabad also asked the city police to take appropriate action for the welfare of the deprived persons. National legal services authority New Delhi has framed seven schemes for providing legal aid to weaker sections of the society. One of the schemes, is - NALSA (Legal Services to the mentally ill and mentally disabled persons) scheme 2015. 
 
 Meanwhile, several NGOs have managed to bring many beggers and homeless persons to various night shelters in the city because of which the occupancy in the facilities are full. “Our NGO is witnessing more than 75% occupancy since the temperature has dipped. Labourers, daily wage earners, relatives of outstation patients and others are taking shelter here,” said one of the caretakers of a   located near the Aurangabad railway station.
 
 The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation runs nine night shelters with the help of various NGOs. 
 
