BHOPAL: One fourth of the companies that come to the campuses in the state for hiring engineering students are returning empty-handed every year as they do not find   here.

 Even students from branches like computer engineering are finding it difficult to get placements. Every year, around 80 per cent students from the state despite having good academic records failed to get jobs after completing their engineering courses.
 
 To address the issue, authorities at the   Proudyogiki Vishwavidyalaya (RGPV) launched several measures like taking suggestions from companies and colleges to make the syllabus as per the industry’s demands.
 
 A senior teaching faculty from a Bhopal-based private engineering college said, “Courses like Master of Computer Application (MCA) is the best example. Companies have even stopped recruiting MCA degree holders because students are reading topics, which have no relevance for the industry.”
 
 A senior faculty at a private college   said, “We need to revise our syllabus as per the need of the industry and include the topics, which are in demand. In current situation, students won’t be able to get jobs even after having good academic records.”
 
 Moonga suggested that a three-month or six-month long certificate course, designed as per the industry’s demand, should be made mandatory for students.
 
 Several engineering colleges are mulling on tying-up with companies to understand their needs and design the syllabus accordingly. “Several companies are ready to provide the infrastructure and conduct classes as per their needs,” said teachers.
 
 The Association of Technical and Professional Institutes (ATPI) also admitted that courses need to be restructured as per the industry’s requirements.
 
 “RGPV came up with various ideas to help students get jobs. An industry-academia meeting held recently was one such initiative,” said an ATPI official.
 
 During the meeting, companies like TCS, Wipro and others too raised the demand of preparing syllabus as per the industry’s demands. They had categorically stated that lack of skills among engineering graduates is one of the major reasons for the poor placements. Representatives of 40 companies and others participated in the seminar.
 
 RGPV vice-chancellor Kalpana Shrivastava said, “We have formed separate committees which comprise experts from Nasscom, ATPI and others to address the issue. By July this year, we will have a new curriculum designed as per the demand of the industry.”
 
