 stunned everyone with her look and character in ‘Begum Jaan’ but there is someone who caught the viewers equally dumbstruck with his appearance in the film.   went almost unrecognized in the gripping ‘Begum Jaan’ trailer and if you look again, you realize the vindictive villain is actually the actor who is remembered for his several comical roles. The actor spoke exclusively to timesofindia.com about his astonishing transformation, the response he received and his daughter  . Here are excerpts from the interview:

 
 
 I think when I was born, I surprised my mother too. When I heard the call to do this movie, they asked me to come and audition for it. I asked what is it for, they said it’s for the villain. I asked “Are you sure you want me?” they said come and audition, maybe we will reject you. When I auditioned for it, ‘Housefull 3’ had just released. Everyone was laughing at my dialogues of Aakhri Pasta and in between I was saying the dialogues of a villain. A week later, the director called me and said you are finalized for the role. They said, for this you need to lose Chunky Pandey. I asked how, they said lose it at the barbers shop. You lose his identity and lose his hair. They even asked me to shave off my eyebrows; I said no this is no way happening. I was travelling and in many countries shaving eyebrows is illegal as you cannot identify the person. I convinced them that this is enough. They coloured my teeth black. We were shooting in   and until I was shooting I couldn’t eat anything until I brushed my teeth. 
 
 
 This character is a pure villain. He doesn’t have an ounce of goodness in him. Like there is God and the devil so he is the devil. Even his breath in itself is bad. Once I was in get-up and came home, my dog came to bite me!
 
 
 I carried it for about three-four months. Once I was at the Bengaluru airport and asked for my boarding pass, they said sir, we can give the boarding pass to Chunky Pandey only. I took that as a compliment because for an actor who is recognized but when no one can recognize you that is a bigger achievement.
 
 
 Normally husbands are afraid of wives but my wife started getting scared of me due to my look. I had a happy married life till then.
 
 
 Srijit didn’t want me to see his performance as he said he wasn’t remaking the film. He said he was too good and ‘Begum Jaan’ was an adaptation of the movie. I have just seen him in the trailer. His face was completely blackened and his character is very different. After the release of ‘Begum Jaan’, I will definitely watch ‘Rajkahini’.
 
 
 
 Comedy is in my DNA and is something I enjoy doing and that enjoyment you can see on screen. Of course I love doing that, but this is a new dimension Srijit has opened for me. I think it is worth exploring as the first outing is being appreciated. I enjoyed how people were fearing me on the sets. In fact when I got ready and looked myself in the mirror, I got scared of myself. 
 
 
 
 These days you can’t tell kids what to do. They tell you what they are doing. I ask my kids for advice on my look. She is an excellent student and has cleared for both NYU and USC and is now deciding which one to go to. Let’s see how it goes. What happens to them is their own story to tell. 
 
 
