PATIALA: The   Re-employed Professors Association on Wednesday accused the state finance department of encroaching upon the autonomy of the university by withholding the release of Rs 50 crore financial assistance announced by chief minister   last year. It could have helped the university tide over the financial crisis that it was facing now, it claimed.

 The teachers’ body alleged that, “The finance department was trying to dictate terms to the university in its day-to-day functioning when the fact remains that they were being re-hired in accordance with the policy of the   with regard to re-employment of professors, which was duly approved and adopted by all universities across the country.”
 
 It also lamented the fact that an official of the rank of under secretary in the finance department was writing a letter to the university, demanding an undertaking from the authorities against the national policy of the UGC. The department had in September written to the university to discontinue with the practice of hiring retired teachers and instead replace them with fresh recruits at lower salaries. As the university did not adhere to these instructions, the grant was withheld by the state department, pushing the university deep into a financial crisis, leading to delay in payment of employees’ salaries for two months.
 
 The re-employed teachers demanded an immediate withdrawal of the letter. They also decided to seek time from the Chancellor of Punjabi University to apprise him of the gravity of the situation. They said that the governor would be apprised of the uncalled for intervention by the state government that tantamount to erosion of the autonomy and smooth functioning of this premier institute.
 
 The teachers also claimed that a majority of the professors had expressed their willingness to serve the university even without any financial benefits in the larger interest of the students, especially those doing research, who were in the midst of their PhDs and MPhils, in case it helped the university in coming out of its present financial crisis.
 
