PUNE: The Mula-Mutha River and its tributaries have a collective carrying capacity of 97,000 cusecs but encroachments along both their banks have reduced the capacity to such an extent that parts of the city are prone to flooding even if 50,000 cusecs is discharged from the Khadakwasla dam.

  This has been put forth in black and white by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in its new   management plan.
 
 The   has four dams — Temghar, Varasgaon, Panshet and Khadakwasla. Water from the three dams flows to Khadakwasla and water released from here flows through the city. The river itself merges with the Bhima at Rahu, about 66 km from Pune. 
 
 “Encroachments and settlements in the riverbed have reduced its carrying capacity and a release of 50,000 cusecs will cause flooding,” the plan, which lays out disaster management operations in detail, states. However, the plan offers no leads about any action against encroachers or removing the encroachments.
 
 “The civic body must remove its own encroachments from the riverbed. A part of a sewage treatment plant at Vitthalwadi stands in the riverbed. The PMC is building roads in the floodline and hence parts of the city witness floods even if 40,000 cusecs water is released from the dam,” environment activist   told TOI.
 
 The irrigation department had released 97,000 cusecs of water into the river in 1997 and 67,000 cusecs in 2011 from Khadakwasla in a staggered manner.
 
 The disaster management plan has identified 39 localities in the city which are flood-prone and can witness large-scale flooding if there is a huge discharge from Khadakwasla.
 
 The disaster management cell officials said they were concerned only with drawing up of the plan while removal of the encroachments in the riverbed is the responsibility of the other departments. Senior civic officials claimed they are “under pressure” and hence cannot take action against encroachments in the riverbed.
 
 The plan also states that nullahs in the city face encroachment problems and many nullahs are covered by them.
 
 “We are heading towards a chaotic situation were water bodies are under a serious threat and land sharks are eating up every piece of public land available. Soon, nullahs will be buried under construction and water will flow on the roads converting them into nullahs,” Vijay Kumbhar of Surajya Sangharsh Samiti, a civic activism group, said.
 
 Last month, the National Disaster Management Authority had posted 14 disaster management professionals to various districts in the state. This was aside from the three professionals at the state level. The professionals were appointed in Pune, Thane, Palghar, Latur, Amravati, Chandrapur, Satara and Raigad, among other locations.
 
 Each professional was tasked with determining which type of disaster their respective district is prone to, based on its geology, geography and population, among others.
 
