NEW DELHI: During the initial years,   were all crown, no filling. They had the biggest names the game had to offer, an equally reputed support staff and some really expensive buys. But despite all that splashing of money, the franchise had just one   final to show for. 

 Then in 2013, a changing of guard reversed their fortunes. In came   with his bright ideas and dynamic leadership skills, and Mumbai Indians reached the pinnacle of IPL success.
  
 Champions in 2013 and 2015, they look no less formidable this year either, purely because of the balance their squad possesses. They have the big hitters, the slow left-armers and the death bowlers, but most importantly, cricketers who are coming off tremendous runs wherever they have played. 
 
 The only concern remains their captain Rohit, who has been out of cricket due to injury since October, but again, such is the side composition that he should feel free to bat at the position he is tailor-made for than where MI would like him to play. The strength in MI's middle order is sufficient to make Rohit open the innings.
  
 
 
  
 Rohit last played competitive cricket four months back. He was scheduled to play the Deodhar Trophy but was ruled out at the last minute due to a minor knee issue. Hence, match practice is obviously going to be an issue. But what bodes well for the team is that he is actively involved in a nine-day preparatory camp and doesn't take much time to get in the scheme of things.
  
 
  
 Another big name acquired, but Jayawardene - who replaced Ricky Pointing - has no experience in coaching. He has served as player-cum-mentor with several T20 league teams but this will be his first stint as a full-time coach.
  
 
 Rohit Sharma (capt),  ,  , Harbhajan Singh,  , Jasprit Bumrah, Shreyas Gopal, Lendl Simmons, Vinay Kumar, Parthiv Patel, Mitchell McClenaghan, Nitish Rana, Siddhesh Lad, Jagadeesha Suchith, Hardik Pandya, Jos Buttler, Tim Southee, Jitesh Sharma, Krunal Pandya, Deepak Punia, Saurabh Tiwary, Nicholas Pooran, Mitchell Johnson, Karn Sharma, Asela Gunaratne, Krishnappa Gowtham, Kulwant Khejroliya.
  
 
  1 Rohit Sharma (capt), 2 Parthiv Patel (wk), 3 Ambati Rayudu, 4 Keiron Pollard, 5 Jos Buttler, 6 Hardik Pandya, 7 Karn Sharma, 8 Harbhajan Singh, 9 Jasprit Bumrah, 10 Lasith Malinga, 11 Mitchell Johnson/Mitchell McClenaghan
 
 
 Mumbai Indians' bowling has at times looked limited and fragile in the past, but the department looks really bolstered this year with Mitchell Johnson and Karn Sharma added to support Jasprit Bumrah, Lasith Malinga, Mitchell McClenaghan and Harbhajan Singh. They will be buoyed by the presence of Parthiv Patel at the top, who has been in impeccable touch with the bat for Baroda and during his brief Test comeback for India last year. Jos Buttler and Keiron Pollard are the big-hitters, followed by the all-round Pandya brothers. Hardik can bat and can bowl in the death and Krunal has a few 70-plus scores for Baroda in the Vijay Hazare Trophy. Asela Gunaratne, despite being a batsman, can slip in those two-three handy overs should Pollard, Hardik or Krunal be taken for runs.
 
 
 Winners in 2013 and 2015, runners-up in 2010; thrice eliminated in the Playoffs - 2011, 2012, 2014.
  
 
 Last year was forgettable for Mumbai Indians, the first time since 2009 that they failed to progress to the play-offs. Injuries to Lendl Simmons and Lasith Malinga were huge setbacks. This year however, they have plenty of backup should something similar happen. Mumbai's biggest asset is their domestic player bench strength. The one thing they must ensure is to not lose matches upfront. If they can escape the pressure of catching up, a hat-trick of IPL titles is very much within reach.
  
 
 April 6: vs. Rising Pune Supergiant (Away), April 9: vs. Kolkata Knight Riders (Home), April 12: vs. Sunrisers Hyderabad (Home), April 14: vs. Royal Challengers Bangalore (Away), April 16: vs. Gujarat Lions (Home), April 20: vs. Kings XI Punjab (Away), April 22: vs. Delhi Daredevils (Home), April 24: vs. Rising Pune Supergiant (Home), April 29: vs. Gujarat Lions (Away), May 01: vs. Royal Challengers Bangalore (Home), May 06: vs. Delhi Daredevils (Away), May 08: vs. Sunrisers Hyderabad (Away), May 11: vs. Kings XI Punjab (Home), May 13: vs. Kolkata Knight Riders (Away)
 
 
