Harsimran Singh Batra

 Ludhiana: The forest department and Greater Area Development Authority (GLADA) are passing the buck to each other over alleged illegal chopping of more than 250 trees at Palm City near Kohara by a developer. 
 
 Members of a few NGOs working on environmental issues in the city said they would stop plantation drives if authorities didn’t finalize departmental responsibility if trees were chopped.
 
 Coordinator, RBS Roots Amandeep Singh Bains said they would take up the matter with authorities and ask how no action could be taken when over 250 trees have been chopped off. He said land invariably falls under one department or the other. If the forest department is doing nothing, he said, GLADA authorities should take action against the developer as the area falls under GLADA. 
 
 Singh said they would take raise the issue with authorities, including the mayor and ask environmental organisations to stop conducting plantation drives if authorities failed to fix responsibility. 
 
 On Wednesday, January 25, GLADA executive engineer (Horticulture) Navjot Singh said they had to nothing to do in the case and they have written to the forest department. 
 
 When contacted, district forest officer (DFO) Vishal Chauhan, on Friday, said they cannot do anything as it is a private colony and they have asked residents to lodge a police complaint. On Tuesday, January 24, police officials from Sahnewal police station said they would send a report to the forest department, which would take action. 
 
 Sambhav Foundation member Shobhan Soi said there is lack of proper enforcement and action should be taken against the guilty. Even if the forest department claims the land is private property, he has no right to cut trees. Those trees, he said, could have been shifted to some other place, like in foreign countries, he said. 
 
 Earlier over 250 trees were chopped off at Palm city near Kohara on last Monday (Jan 23) and the residents complained about the same that the trees are being cut off illegally and action should be taken against the alleged guilty developer. 
 
 One of the residents, Karamjit Singh said they have submitted complaints to all departments concerned, including Pollution Control Board, DC office and GLADA but they have not received a response. He said the fact that a person had chopped trees and was walking free underlined the negligence of authorities.
 
 SHO Surinderpal Singh said as residents have lodged a complaint, they will forward the same to the deputy commissioner Ravi Bhagat who will further mark the case to the respective department which will deal with the case.
 
 Deputy commissioner Ravi Bhagat said that he would look into the matter and required action would be taken. Further he said the district administration will also circulate a toll free number in the coming days where the residents will be able to complain against illegal chopping of trees or other environmental issues.
 
 
