BATHINDA: Stubble burning may now earn farmers in   a range of punishments, from pollution penalties to a bar on taking loans.

 The practice was blamed as the primary driver of the days-long smog onslaught on Delhi and   last year, and efforts have been under way to get farmers to find better ways to dispose of crop residue.
 
 Now, the Punjab government has decided to make red-ink entries into the land records (khasra girdwari) of farmers who burn crop residue in their fields. Punjab science, technology and environment department principal secretary Roshan   has issued letters to all deputy commissioners to ensure farmers don’t burn stubble. Government officials told TOI that once the red-ink entries were made, the farmers would be identified as wilful defaulters of government orders.
 
 This can lead to some harsh action — apart from the pollution penalty and loan bar, the likely repercussions of being marked out include defaulting farmers not being able to borrow agriculture equipment from cooperative societies.
 
 TOI has a copy of the letter, which tasks revenue officers with making the red-ink entries stating ‘jhona saada’ (stubble burnt), wherever the burning of paddy straw is observed. Deputy commissioners have been directed to issue notice for disciplinary action and initiate inquiry if any revenue officials are found to be supporting the practice.
 
 The department of personnel will issue directions to all employees of government, boards, corporations and autonomous organisations who own agriculture land to comply with the directions, failing which disciplinary action shall be taken against them.
 
 Meanwhile, many farmer organisations have threatened to burn large quantities of residue if they are not given compensation for adopting environment-friendly methods. If the stand-off between the farmers and the state government is not resolved quickly, the fires will start soon and the dense smoke envelop Delhi again.
 
 Farm organisations, however, seem to be calling the government’s bluff. “We are not afraid of the red-ink entries,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Ekta Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri.
 
 BKU Dakonda vice-president Manjit Singh Dhaner added, “The state government should either provide farm machinery needed to mix the stubble into the soil free of cost or give us an additional bonus of Rs 200 per quintal on paddy. Only then will we not burn the stubble.”
 
 The union leaders said farmers were committing suicide and the state government, which had failed to keep its promise of a complete loan waiver, now wanted to impose fines.
 
 The government may also post JEs of the power department, revenue officers, and NSS and   volunteers ain fields to curb stubble burning. Sunkaria told TOI, “No violation will be tolerated; fines will be imposed.”
 
 
