PUNE: Middle-aged  , returning from a business  , had just landed in Pune and made his way out of the arrivals gate when a stray dog   at him. 

 So startled was Kadam that he panicked and almost lost his balance after getting tangled up in his luggage. 
 
 “This had happened to a friend of mine too a month ago, in the same spot,” Kadam said, “How can there be stray dogs in the airport area? This may seem trivial, but it is not. It affects passengers, especially those coming from abroad. Moreover, this is a defence airport,” Kadam added. 
 
 For regular passengers, the issue of stray dogs having the run of the place has become a cause for concern. Senior officials from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said the buck stops with Airports Authorities of India (AAI), who they said must ensure people living in the vicinity of the airport adopt scientific methods of garbage disposal. 
 
 “PMC is doing its job. Almost every week, our squads visit the area and catch the dogs which are immunized as well as sterilized. Just in the last month, we caught 20 dogs. If there is garbage piling up in the open, it will attract dogs.
 
  The AAI should come up with strict directives in this regard. We cannot do much as the area doesn’t fall under the PMC’s purview,” S T Pardeshi, who heads PMC’s health department, told TOI.
 
 An airline staffer, requesting anonymity, however said stray dogs are spotted frequently on the airport premises. 
 
 “They can be found resting in the area right in front of the arrival and departure gates. Also, they can be found in other spots, like the pre-paid autorickshaw and taxi stands, airline counters and also behind the counters. I think they roam around hoping for some food — there are a few eateries in and around the terminal. They need to be stopped from entering the area, as it is constantly busy with passengers and vehicles,” the official pointed out.
 
 While the airport authorities were not forthcoming, an official said, “The AAI is aware of the issue, and some plans are afoot. With the expansion project commencing, changes in every area can soon be seen.”
 
 Ravi Joshi, a regular flyer, said: “Neither the airport authorities nor the PMC is very serious about the matter. There were reports earlier about a snake [a python] being found near the runway. There are strict regulations pertaining to animals and birds near the airport, and the authorities should look at this issue seriously. The AAI must ensure the eateries on the premises are clean and the garbage is properly disposed of.” 
 
