Chandigarh: Giving relief to former former assistant excise and taxation commissioner Ravinder Kaushik, the Chandigarh district court granted anticipatory   to him on Thursday. Two excise and taxation officers RL Chugh and Ramesh Bhateja were also granted anticipatory bail on Wednesday by the court of additional and district judge Harish Anand. The court on August 30 had ordered to register an FIR against these three officials under charges of theft and causing harassment to liqor vend owner Kamaljit Singh Bajaj.

 It was stated in the bail application that all the allegations are baseless and he is ready to cooperate with the police during the investigation. On these grounds the bail was sought and the court granted bail with certain conditions .
 
 The court had directed SHO of Industrial Area Phase 1 to register an FIR against these officers under section 379 (punishment for theft) 166 (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person) of IPC. The court also directed to register an FIR against Chugh and Bhateja under 120 B (punishment of criminal conspiracy )of IPC .
 
 The directions had came in the petition filed by director of Liqor World Venture Private Limited Bajaj who have been allotted six liqor vends in Chandigarh. He had filed a petition in Chandigarh District Court with a prayer to register an FIR against the excise and taxation officers for mentally harassing him giving him monitory loss and misusing their official powers . 
 
 Bajaj had moved Chandigarh District Court against deputy excise and taxation commissioner Rakesh Kumar Popli, Kaushik along with these two alleging that he has not been issued liquor stock by the excise department even after running from pillar to post. He had alleged that non-issuance of stock despite issuance of liqor licence is totally arbitrary and illegal and without justification.
 
 As per allegations, “Assistant Excise and taxation Commissioner , “Ravinder Kaushik tried to seal the liqor vend illegaly and unlawfully …due to invention of complainant, Kaushik was not able to achieve his illegal objectives and since then he is harbouring personal grudge against him.” It was also alleged that because of Kaushik’s directions, Chugh and Bhatija also harassed him .
 
 The appointment of Kaushik was also questioned and it was also alleged in the petition that he was appointed illegally as he was functioning as assistant professor in Arts College and was also drawing salary. The information was revealed through Right to Information.
 
 
