CHENNAI: Police arrested five people for attempting to murder the chief cashier of a private film production unit on no less than three occasions near Kodambakkam flyover last year.

 The attempted target, Saravana Muthu, 45, narrowly escaped his would-be killers with injuries both minor and grievous in all three attempts — in August, September and October of 2016.
 
 The   police registered a case under IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder) but it took some time for the investigators to make a breakthrough.
 
 A senior police officer said Muthu approached the Nungambakkam police only after the gang attacked him a second time. Investigating officers made sure they apprehended the suspects after they targeted Muthu a third time, leaving him with grievous injuries.
 
 “Muthu suspected that the attacks were premeditated and investigators knew that they had to arrest the culprits before they made another attempt to kill him,” the officer said.
 
 Police scrutinised security camera footage from traffic signals nearby as well as from stores and restaurants near the Kodambakkam flyover. The footage revealed that the assailants waited near the flyover in an autorickshaw and on a motorcycle, on a route Muthu took every day while returning home from work.
 
 Police teams caught the suspects and identified them as local thug Jayakumar of Gopalapuram and his associates Mahendran, Charles and Dominique. During interrogation, they revealed that they were acting on the instructions of Harish, a cashier at Red Giant Movies.
 
 Investigators subsequently arrested Harish from his residence in Aminjikarai, where he lived with his partner Nithya, a supporting actor in the Tamil movie ‘Manithan’, starring Udayanidhi Stalin and Hansika Motwani.
 
 When investigating officers questioned Harish, he revealed that he planned to eliminate Muthu.
 
 “Harish had swindled the film company of Rs 3 crore,” the officer said. “The Central Crime Branch of the city police was probing the case and Harish feared that Muthu may reveal clues implicating him. He decided to do away with Muthu.”
 
 “Harish, who handled all the film unit’s financial transactions for ‘Manithan’, had befriended actress Nithya and took a separate house on rent to live with her,” he said.
 
 
