BHOPAL: Where you expect to hear the chatter of schoolkids or the chanting of tables, there’s the mooing of cows. The stench of cow dung and urine hits you from 100m away. What looks and smells like   is actually a government   in Kevlali, Bundelkhand — a region that gave at least 10 toppers in this year’s board exams, including the Class XII top ranker.

 Two years back, there was a buzz about this sleepy hamlet in Sagar district. There were signs of increasing education levels. More children were enrolling. Dropout rates were down. As the number of students went up, the panchayat decided to build two additional rooms and a hall, about 100m from the old school building.
 
 But the school of 100 students continues to run in the old, dilapidated building while cows, bulls, and calves chew cud in the new one. Fodder is stacked up in one corner and cow dung is scattered all over in piles.
 
 Villagers said that the school is encroached by Lakhan Singh Rajpoot, an influential person of the village. Headmaster Aman Singh, sounding like a scared man, said he has “already informed the higher authorities” about the encroachment.
 
 H P Kurmi, district project coordinator of school education and the immediate supervisor of primary schools of the region, said the administration will take action. “We will file an FIR against the man who converted the school into a cowshed. I have directed the school headmaster to get the new classrooms vacated to allow the students to sit there.”
 
 The additional rooms were constructed by the gram panchayat when student strength was higher, he said. “Now many students have dropped out, which is why that portion of the school is lying vacant,” he explained. But Kurmi has an interesting excuse to offer for the cows. “As far as the cattle is concerned, stray animals sometimes enter the empty buildings,” he said.
 
 Minister of school education Vijay Shah said he did not know of the encroachment. “Now that you have told me, we will ensure that the cattle are removed from the school building as soon as possible,” he said.
 
 
