NAGPUR: Congress is planning to release its manifesto and announce the list of rebels to be expelled from the party on February 11. Former MP Vilas Muttemwar said that  , president of   (MPCC), and former minister Naseem Khan, were coming to the city on Saturday. “We plan to release the two documents in their presence,” he said.

 Muttemwar further said that work was going on for the party manifesto for   (NMC) elections day and night. “We will come with an excellent manifesto that will show how different our vision is from BJP,” he added.
 
 While the manifesto may be easy, expelling rebels from the party is a difficult job due to the deep schism in the party among top city leaders. Ex-ministers Nitin Raut, Anees Ahmed and Satish Chaturvedi had sought ticket for many of these rebels but were denied by MPCC chief Chavan and city Congress president Vikas Thakre.
 
 Due to mismanagement double B forms had been issued from the same seat in many wards. The candidate who filed the nomination first got the party symbol while the other was left holding short end of the stick. Some of these candidates did not withdraw and are contesting like independents. One such example is Kalpana Goswami from seat 4A. Another is   from 8A.
 
 The case of Kishor Jichkar and Vineel Chaurasia is even more difficult to decide. Chaurasia is an activist of Congress’ ally Lokmanch, which was promised the 9B seat under the seat sharing arrangement by Muttemwar and Thakre. Jichkar was also given a B form by MPCC. He filed the nomination first and got the hand symbol. Chaurasia is contesting on a ceiling fan symbol. While Lokmanch wants Congress to expel Jichkar for rebelling, the party bosses can hardly expel their official candidate.
 
 A senior Congress leader said that if close aides of Raut, Ahmed and Chaturvedi were expelled then they would take it up with All India Congress Committee (AICC). “They were not consulted while distributing party tickets. There is genuine anger against Muttemwar and Thakre among a large section of Congress workers. It would be best for the party if rebels are not dealt with harshly,” he added.
 
