You may think that 'Lucknow Central' is the story of Kishen Mohan (played by  ) of Moradabad, who gets convicted for murder and ends up in   Jail, where an NGO worker, Gayatri Kashyap ( ), is forming a prison band. While that's the basic plot of the film, what you might not know is that it isn't just confined to the four walls of Lucknow Central Jail. The story draws inspiration from every other central jail in the country that has music bands. 

  We spoke to Lucknow Central's writer  , who told us that they picked bits and pieces from the central jails of Lucknow, Delhi, Jammu and Pune, and then created the story of a jail band and a jailbreak that follows. Aseem tells us, "Even though we wanted an emotional story, not a jailbreak thriller, the film has more facts than fiction."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Director Ranjit Tiwari and writer Aseem Arora took over two years to do research for the film. Their homework included Delhi's Tihar Jail, Pune’s Yerwada Jail, Lucknow Jail and Jammu's Kot Bhalwal jail. Aseem says, "Our film is the sum total of research from almost all the central jails of India. Ranjit visited jails and interacted with the staff and inmates. I also met a lot of people, but our story is neither the story of Lucknow Jail nor Tihar. The only reason why we based the film's story in Lucknow is because we wanted a blend of characters. It’s not that we didn’t discuss setting our story in J&K, but Lucknow suited us more."
 
 
  
  Another still from 'Lucknow Central
 
 
  
 In 2011, the Inmates Pipe Band was formed – this was the first ever band created in any prison of Jammu & Kashmir. A year later, Tihar Jail’s first music band, the Flying Souls, was formed as part of the jail’s initiatives to create opportunities for prisoners. These two bands were a major inspiration for the movie, says Aseem. He tells us, "When we started researching, we got to know that in Jammu jail, the inmates didn't show any interest, it was the jail staff who persuaded them to do it. Whereas in the jails of Lucknow, Delhi and Pune, the inmates came up with more ideas to better the whole band concept. We realised that the staff members of all these jails had one thing in common – they wanted to rehabilitate the inmates. So after doing a lot of research on the music bands of the different jails of our country, and the jails in the US and South Korea, we finalised our story. Basically, all these three jail stories - of Tihar Idols, Lucknow Central music band and Jammu & Kashmir band – created the crux of Lucknow Central."
 
 
  
  DT’s story in August on how films were inspired by Tihar Idols’ journey 
 
  
 In real life, none of the members of the music bands have actually planned an escape, but since the film had to have some drama and conflict, the filmmakers decided to bring a jail band and a jailbreak story together. The jailbreak narrative was inspired from Tihar and Meerut District Jail. There have been six jailbreaks in Tihar's history, while the jail in Meerut is also famous for jailbreaks. In 2010, nine prisoners, including seven convicts, escaped from Meerut District Jail. Aseem says, "We have added that conflict - the jailbreak attempt. For that, we focussed on some famous jailbreaks in Meerut, Punjab and Delhi. We studied these cases and then decided to include whatever suited our script. Our main focus was on the weapons that prisoners create from the utensils available in the jail. It was a really interesting study."
 
 
  
  
 
