TAKHA (ETAWAH): After staying away from campaigning in assembly polls till now, SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav on Saturday sought votes for brother Shivpal, apologising for the delay in connecting with the people. 

 Mulayam, who was removed as party president with son Akhilesh Yadav taking over the reins just before elections after a bitter turf battle with Shivpal, made no mention of the SP-Congress alliance. He also said nothing in favour of or against Akhilesh in his 15-minute address at SS Memorial College at Sutiyani in Takha block of Jaswantnagar in Etawah on Saturday.
 
 Even as Mulayam was addressing the modest gathering, Lok Dal candidate from Etawah Sadar Ashish Rajput climbed up the dais and sought the veteran leader's blessings by touching his feet. Mulayam's immediately acknowledged by taking Rajput's hand and waiving towards the crowd. While none of the leaders said anything, Rajput, who had recently quit SP, immediately left the stage. 
 
  Making an emotional connect with the people, Mulayam said, "Sorry, I was very busy all these days and that is why I couldn't come to meet you all. I am addressing you all after a long gap. Takha is my 'karmbhoomi'. I have come here to appeal to you all to help secure my brother Shivpal's win from Jaswantnagar. It should be the biggest in the state." 
 
 Mulayam added that the script of   (SP) was penned in Jaswantnagar and it holds a great significance for him. "I have won several times from here that too many a times in adverse situation. Whatever I had promised, I did. Our party will never get old. Samajwadi Party has always believed in helping others. If Shivpal or any other candidate has ever made a mistake, just forgive them," he said.
 
  He expressed confidence that Samajwadi Party would again form the government in the state as it had done maximum development work. "Earlier also we had worked hard for the welfare of farmers in the state and again after SP will retain power, we will work for their uplift," he added. 
 
 Mulayam also said that he was hale and hearty and was not suffering from any disease and even possessed a certificate from foreign specialists. "With all your blessings, I am quite well and not only doctors from here (country) but even from abroad, have given a fitness certificate to me," he said.
 
 It was the first rally of SP patriarch, whose name was on the top of SP's star campaigners list, after a number of flip-flops on whether he would campaign for the SP after Akhilesh took over the reins of the party.
 
  None of the candidates fielded by Akhilesh-Kuldeep Gupta alias Santu from Etawah Sadar and Kamlesh Katheria from Bharthana (Reserved)-were present on the stage. 
 
