NEW DELHI: The London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA) has ruled in favour of  's in its arbitration against its estranged joint-venture partner in north and east India  , US burger chain said on Wednesday. 

 McDonald's had approached the LCIA for arbitration in 2013-14 after Bakshi challenged his ouster as the MD of their 50:50 joint venture   (CPRL) in the   (CLB). McDonald's revoked the JV agreement on account of his having breached one of the pivotal conditions of the agreement, which precluded him from creating any lien on his shareholding including mortgage and pledge.
 
  Earlier, the burger chain had offered to buy out Bakshi's stake in the JV at around $5 million, an amount which it later raised to $7 million. Bakshi refused the offer and roped in  , which valued CPRL at around $330 million. 
 
  While Bakshi was not immediately available for comment, McDonald's India said in an email, "We are pleased with the decision in what has been a protracted legal dispute with a former partner. Our intention now is to take the appropriate steps to enforce the award, which we believe is right for the business and our customers." 
 
 However, legal experts TOI spoke to said Bakshi can still appeal against the outcome of the arbitration. Although TOI could not ascertain the finer details of the arbitration at the time of this story going to print, as both parties face a confidentiality clause, people familiar with the development said McDonald's has the right to buy out Bakshi's entire shareholding at a price based on a pre-agreed formula contained in the joint venture. 
 
 In June, around 43 of the 169 McDonald's outlets operated by CPRL had to be shuttered, as a result of Bakshi's refusal to sign their health licence application renewal forms. Subsequently, the burger chain slapped CPRL with a notice terminating its franchise licence last month, citing non-payment of royalty to which Bakshi said McDonald's executives on CPRL's board were in the know. 
 
  Although Bakshi refused to acknowledge the notice and insisted on running the stores on his own, McDonald's on Wednesday said that it has reached out to its suppliers and asked them to stop supplying goods and ingredients to CPRL-run outlets. 
 
 
