PATNA: Weathermen on Friday issued a forecast of   conditions in Patna and several other parts of Bihar this  . With the minimum temperature recorded at 4.2 degrees Celsius, Gaya was the coldest place in the state this morning, while Supaul shivered at 4.7 degrees Celsius. The temperature nosedived to 5 degrees Celsius in Patna, four notches lower than the corresponding normal.

 Weathermen attributed the gradual plunge in the mercury column to the cold westerly winds coming at an average speed of 8-12kmph from the northern states of   and Kashmir,   and Uttarakhand. “The minimum temperature is expected to dip further across the state on Saturday under the influence of cold westerly winds blowing from the northern parts of the country. Accordingly, we are expecting cold wave conditions at isolated places in north-central, north-western and south-central parts of Bihar, including Patna on Saturday,” said a senior weatherman at the Patna Meteorological Centre.
 
 One of the meteorological conditions for declaring cold wave conditions is that the normal minimum temperature should be 10 degrees Celsius or below. The local met office has predicted the actual minimum temperature to remain in the range of 5-6 degrees Celsius this weekend.
 
 Fresh snowfall expected in Jammu and Kashmir and neighbouring places in north India from Saturday is likely to cause further plunge in the mercury column in the   for a few days from Sunday. “A western disturbance prevailing over north Jammu and Kashmir is expected to move towards the northern plains by Sunday. This may lead to fresh snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh for a few days. Winds blowing from the snowfall-laden areas from the northern states are expected to result in further plunge in temperature in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar as well,” the weatherman at Patna said.
 
 Health experts have suggested that people suffering from heart diseases and blood pressure-related disorders should take special precautions under the prevailing chilly conditions. 
 
 Patna-based physician Dr Ajay Kumar on Friday claimed that morning walks should be avoided in the wee hours. “The chances of heart attacks and chronic blood pressure-related ailments are higher under extreme cold conditions. Besides, people suffering from asthma should also remain cautious,” said Dr Kumar.
 
 
