PUNE:   temperatures over   have overshadowed the last vestiges of winter in the past few days. 

 On Monday, the city’s day temperature soared to a scorching 35.6°C, with other places in the region following suit. The day temperature in Mahabaleshwar, too, climbed to 32.5°C. The city’s maximum temperature on Monday was 3.3°C above normal, while that of Mahabaleshwar was 4.6°C above normal.
 
 The temperatures have increased significantly owing to clear skies and an absence of cold winds from the north.
 
 The city’s temperature on Monday was higher than Mumbai, where mercury settled close to 30.5°C. At 35.6°C, Pune’s day time temperature on Monday was the second highest   maximum temperature in the last five years. The highest maximum temperature in the last five years was 37.2°C, recorded last year in February. The early part of 2016 had recorded high day temperatures in many parts of the state due to the lingering effect of El Nino. 
 
 The last time mercury shot up to 32.5°C in Mahabaleshwar was on February 24, 2016. The hill station’s day temperature on Monday was also quite close to the all-time high February maximum temperature of 33.9°C, recorded on February 28, 2009.
 
 P C S Rao, scientist, Climate Monitoring and Analysis Group, IMD-Pune, told TOI that this was almost the last week of winter, and the current period was the transition period from winter to hot   season. “Several parts of the state are recording above normal temperatures due to the warm, moist easterly influence that are currently prevailing in peninsular India. The easterlies are also influencing the temperature in Maharashtra. A cyclonic circulation over north Madhya Maharashtra is preventing the flow of cold north westerly winds into the region, while another cyclonic circulation over Gujarat is responsible for prevention of the setting in of the cool sea breeze over coastal stations,” said Rao.
 
 Rao added that the temperatures in the state might remain more or less the same for the next couple of days over central Maharashtra.
 
