Chennai: Car market leader Maruti Suzuki is targeting 20% of its total sales to come from its premium channel NEXA in the new financial year. With 250 outlets, NEXA currently contributes around 12-15% of the company’s total sales, said a top Maruti official. NEXA has cumulatively sold over 2,00,000 cars and in the current financial year, sales from NEXA are estimated at more than 1.5 lakh units. Maruti has now decided to move its mid-size sedan Ciaz to the NEXA network. Ciaz will be sold exclusively through NEXA outlets across India starting April 1, 2017.

 “Ciaz is the leader in the mid-size sedan segment and we are going to close the current fiscal with sales of around 64,000 units, up from the 54,233 units sold in the year-ago period. So far, we have a Ciaz customer pool of 1,50,000 and we checked their profiles and found 52% of the customers never had Maruti in their consideration for car purchase. So we felt we could be able to much higher numbers of this strata if we sell the Ciaz through NEXA,” said R S Kalsi, executive director, marketing & sales, Maruti Suzuki. Besides, he added, that with 250 outlets, the NEXA channel has acquired critical mass ‘covering 90-95% of territories where we sell the Ciaz’. The company has meanwhile introduced the Vitara Brezza to its conventional channel in an effort to ‘maintain balance’. In the new fiscal too, the refreshes will go to the conventional channel while new models will be positioned according to customer clinics.
 
 Maruti is targetting an overall sales growth of around 10% next fiscal and the Ciaz is expected to repeat its high double digit performance. The Ciaz has helped Maruti gain market leadership in the A3+ mid-size sedan segment. 
 
 The company’s share in the segment has surged to more than 41% in FY17 against 29.1% in FY16, ahead of competitors like Honda City, Hyundai Verna, VW Vento and Skoda Rapid. 
 
 However with the new Honda City attracting strong buzz, the segment could see renewed competition. Currently over 60% of the Ciaz volumes come from the Smart Hybrid diesel variant.
 
 
