PATNA: Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) here is gearing up to open a full-fledged   with all facilities for organ transplant, except for heart.
 
  An application for a no-objection certificate (NOC) has been submitted to the health department, which will conduct a survey of the facilities and infrastructure at the institute on May 20. If accepted, the institute will be the nodal centre for organ transplant and will be the   (SOTTO) in Bihar.
  
  According to IGIMS medical superintendent Dr Manish Mandal, who would also head the (SOTTO), the centre would also function like an organ bank. As of now, IGIMS has facilities for eye transplant and have performed a few kidney transplants. Now, it will be developed as the centre for bone, liver, kidney, pancreas, skin and tissues transplant. One donor body will be able to provide two corneas, two kidneys, one liver, one pancreas and skin and tissues of different lengths.
  
  “For liver transplant, collaboration with Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, New Delhi, is underway. The Delhi institute will also conduct a survey to check if the centre is well equipped to carry out the transplants. They will advise us accordingly. They will conduct the first 10 liver transplants and we will assist them. In the next 10 cases, they will assist us,” he said.
  
  “The first priority for organ retrieval will be given to the donors who come to IGIMS; second will be for other government hospitals and then to the private organizations. In case, we are unable to use the organs, the transplant coordinator will inform the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO),” said Mandal.
  
  As soon as the organ is retrieved from the body, NOTTO’s team from Delhi would come to collect the organ for any needy recipient in another state within 6 to 12 hours.
  
  The time period for retrieval of corneas is four hours after death whereas for implantation it’s 72 hours from the time of retrieval. Similarly, time period for retrieval of bone, liver, kidney, skin and tissues are four hours and for pancreas two hours. The time period for implantation of all of them is 12 hours.
  
  Mandal said once the NOC is received, they will also work on ‘Green Corridors’. To provide a safe and smooth passage on-road for transporting the harvested organs or the donor’s body from one hospital to another is called ‘Green Corridors’. The road signals are manually operated with the help of the traffic police to avoid red lights and city traffic. Keeping in mind the traffic rush of the city and the negligence of commuters not giving way to ambulances in a traffic jam, a green corridor seems necessary.
  
  Rubbishing myths that people in Bihar do not want to donate organs, Mandal cited the examples of the CRPF havildar and a private hospital employee who recently donated the corneas of their respective sons after their death.
  
  
  Now heart patients, particularly those from west Patna, will be able to avail the facility of an advanced life support ambulance that has been launched in IGIMS.
  
  The ambulance has been provided to medical institute by the state health department for 24-hour service. “Patients suffering from breathing problem, chest pain and possible heart attack can call the hospital for the ambulance. All the facilities that are needed to save a life, including ECG machines, defibulator, ventilator along with a junior doctor, an   and a helper, will be present in the ambulance,” said Dr B P Singh, head of cardiology department in IGIMS.
  
  Sources said a toll-free number for the mobile ambulance will also be set up within 10 days. “We expect second such ambulance very soon,” said a source.
