LUCKNOW: Ruling out possibilities of a truce between the warring factions of the  , senior SP leader  , approached the   on Saturday and said   Yadav enjoyed the support of 4,716 of SP’s 5,731 “delegates”— elected representatives of the party.

 Even as afternoon meetings between senior minister Azam Khan, leaders from the Shivpal Yadav camp and SP patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav remained inconclusive, Ram Gopal’s arrival at the Election Commission office — armed with seven cartons-full of documents — suggested that the Akhilesh camp was unwilling to step back.
 
 Ram Gopal reached the EC office in New Delhi around 7pm on Saturday— two days before the January 9 deadline — and submitted about 1.5 lakh pages worth of documents. The cartons full of paper, Ram Gopal said, contained individual affidavits signed by 4,716  , including signatures of support by 205 MLAs, 56 MLCs, 15 members of Parliament, and 30 members of the national executive.
 
 “We sought the support of MLAs, MLCs, MPs and delegates from all 75 districts in UP. The Election Commission gave us time till January 9. However, we have already completed all formalities. Prima facie, the real SP is led by Akhilesh Yadav and he should be given the right to contest on the cycle symbol. More than 90% delegates are in favour of Akhilesh as national president,” said Ram Gopal.
 
 Ram Gopal also rubbished claims that Akhilesh was illegally anointed president of the SP. He said, “Akhilesh has been appointed national president of the Samajwadi Party according to the SP constitution.”
 
 Acknowledging a vertical split in the Samajwadi Party, the Election Commission had asked Mulayam Singh Yadav to reply by January 9 to Ram Gopal Yadav’s application to the poll panel claiming Akhilesh Yadav represents the “real” SP, and that it alone be recognised as the true SP.
 
 The EC letter sent by its principal secretary K L Wilfred to Mulayam on January 3 said: “Having taken cognizance of the application (from Akhilesh group) and on satisfaction that there are two splinter groups in the Samajwadi Party, within the meaning of paragraph 15 of the Symbols Order, the Commission has directed that you may file your reply to the application latest by Jan 9, Monday.”
 
