NAGPUR: Baitunissa, who is in her 50s, was desperate to find a taker for the scrapped currency worth Rs4,500 left with her, asking others in the queue outside the   office if they could oblige. The money was worth a month’s earning for the family of six. “I have no other cash and it would be difficult to make ends meet,” she told TOI.

 At the same time, Dr Ranjana Iyengar (name changed), who flew down from the UK, could not deposit the Rs10,000 she had at the RBI. The reason: She had a dual citizenship and was not technically a non-resident Indian ( ), which required an Indian passport. Some more persons were rejected by the RBI office for being dual citizens. 
 
 The UK-based ophthalmologist gave up her Indian passport to get British citizenship. But to remain an Indian citizen, she obtained an overseas citizenship card. “I had come with all the documents including customs declaration. When I asked the local RBI officials to get the issue clarified from their higher-ups they refused after an hour’s discussion on phone,” said Iyengar, adding there “are others like me too”.
 
 The money, Iyengar said, was kept to meet the petty expenses during her India trips which she makes often. 
 
 For Baitunissa, who had come with a much smaller amount, it was a question of life and death. She claims to have just returned after a two-month stay in her village in Uttar Pradesh, where the entire family had been to attend her ailing father, who later died. 
 
 “The money was part of our little savings. With no other cash left at home, it might be difficult to even buy food. We had to borrow to pay for the fare to reach RBI office from Kalamna,” said Baitunnisa. “I have a lost a day’s earning (Rs200 to Rs250) by coming here,” added her son Sadiq who was accompanying her.
 
 They were among the over 60 others who had reached the RBI office at Nagpur with scrapped currency and were turned back. A majority of them had small amounts. Coming from low income segments, for them it was big money. While some had just a single note of Rs500, others had come with Rs5,000.
 
 “I could have paid a month’s telephone bill or the milkman’s charges with Rs500. I earn Rs11,000 a month and this is a significant amount for me. Somehow, I could only find the note a couple of days ago and now the RBI is refusing to take it,” said Chirag Vyas who works in a private firm at Gandhibagh. “Why should they discriminate between us and the NRIs,” he asked.
 
 The bank let in over 40 NRIs as well those who had travelled abroad during the demonetization period. As TOI spoke to some of them, it came to fore that the RBI was not following any fixed rule for accepting the notes from NRIs or foreign travellers.
 
 The notes brought in by NRI have to be declared in a specified format to the customs authorities at the time of reaching India. It was seen that some could even deposit the amount without attaching the customs’ declaration. 
 
 Manish Padurkar was coming from US could deposit Rs15,000 without any customs declaration document. On the other hand, Nikita Avinash had the declaration form but was denied as she did not have an Indian bank account. RBI is directly depositing the amount in the persons’ banks accounts.
 
 
