LUCKNOW: Police arrested another aide of  , the alleged mastermind of  , on Sunday. Sahu was shot by miscreants in Saadatganj on February 1. The miscreant arrested was identified as Sonu Mishra aka Rahul, of Pratpagarh. The police had announced a reward of Rs 5,000 in his name on Saturday. Mishra was arrested after his numbers were taken on listening by crime branch on Sunday.

 Mishra confessed his crime and said he was given the task to conduct recee of Sahu’s house. He disclosed that he met Aqeel when he was lodged in jail for theft of four-wheelers from Aliganj and Siddhartnagar. After his release on October 1, last year, Mishra started to work as Aqeel’s driver, and came in contact with his other aides Satyam, Ajay, Babu Khan, Faisal, and Aman. The plan to shoot Sahu was discussed in a room at Shivpuri Colony in Indiranagar, on December 19.
 
 Police said during interrogation, Mishra also disclosed that Aqeel offered a cash prize of Rs 10 lakh and other facilities for the family members to those who shoot Shravan. “From October 3, driving an SUV, I used to do a recce of the area where Shravan lived,” Mishra said when he was brought in front of mediapersons.
 
 Mishra also said citing health reasons, he had returned to his village in Pratapgarh on December 25 after he came to know he will be used by Aqeel in Shravan’s murder. “On February 2, I got to know of Shravan’s   from a friend Islamuddin on phone,” said Mishra.
 
 Saadatganj police station officer Samar Yadav said Sonu Mishra knew the plan but did not inform police. He added that efforts were on to nab the other two accused, Vivek who provided the bike used in the act and Raju who provided the pistol.
 
 Shravan Sahu, who complained to city police about his son’s killer Aqeel conspiring with policemen to threaten him to withdraw the case was gunned down in Saadatganj at 8.45pm on February 1.
 
 On January 10, police found out about the nexus between Aqeel and sub-inspector Dhirendra Shukla and constables Anil Singh and Dhirendra Yadav. The policemen were allegedly trying to frame Shravan in a fake case on Aqeel’s behest. The three poliecemen were dismissed while six others were sent to police lines.
 
 
