MEERUT: Two major incidents of violence in   within a fortnight have compelled newly-appointed Uttar Pradesh director general of police (DGP) Sulkhan Singh and home secretary Debasish Panda to visit the district on Sunday and discuss the situation with top officials of the civil administration and police.
 
  Meanwhile, police have arrested and sent to jail 17 people for arson and rioting in Fareedpur village where clashes between Thakurs and Dalits on Friday afternoon left one dead and dozens injured.
  
  The violence occurred when a group of Thakurs was passing through a Dalit locality en route to a   procession in Shilkana village 5 km away, when some of the Dalits objected to the playing of loud music by members of the procession. This led to stone pelting, arson and gunfire.
  
  Former station in-charge of Badagaon police station, MP Singh, who was recalled to Police Lines by the senior superintendent of police ( ) on Saturday afternoon, told TOI, “Seven cases have been registered against nearly 60 named individuals, while in each case 150-200 unidentified people have been booked. Sections of the IPC invoked against the accused include 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief), 506 (criminal intimidation), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 436 (mischief by fire). Out of 17 people arrested, nine are Thakurs while the rest are Dalits.”
  
  SSP SC Dubey said, “Identification process is on and we will certainly arrest more accused as and when we identify the miscreants. We are also planning to invoke National Security Act (NSA) and Gangster Act against them.”
  
  Dubey added that around 35 police complaints have also been received by the police station concerned and all will be registered.
  
  According to police sources, preliminary investigations have revealed the “negative role” of Fareedpur village pradhan, Shiv  .
  
  A policeman said on condition of anonymity, “Police had reached the spot on time and got the music system stopped but when the news spread, a few Thakurs came into the village to protest the stopping of music system. After a verbal argument, a few youths began pelting stones from the roofs at the behest of the pradhan that worsened the situation. Kumar’s brother has already been arrested.”
  
  This is the second incident of communal violence in the region in a fortnight. Dozens were injured in Sadak Dudhali village of Saharanpur during a clash between two communities over an Ambedkar Jayanti procession.
  
  BSP chief   on Saturday squarely accused the   of orchestrating clashes between castes. She said organising processions without due permission from the state authorities was becoming a ‘fashion’ in the ruling BJP dispensation. “These processions are often witness to inflammatory slogans which pollute the social fabric and cause discord between communities,” she said, demanding strict action against those responsible for such violence.
  
  “BJP leaders have been making tall claims of ensuring good governance. At the ground level, however, it has been otherwise. Anti-social elements are getting bolder,” Mayawati alleged.
