Sadanand Patwardhan’s village, Birwadi, is sandwiched between phase 1 and 2 of Mahad MIDC, one of several industrial clusters in Maharashtra's western region. His ancestral home is on the banks of the once-pristine  , a tributary of the Savitri, which flows through Raigad district. By 1988, chemical and textile companies were spewing untreated effluents into these rivers. And by 2007, Mahad was among the top 10 of the Blacksmith Institute’s ‘Dirty Thirty’ – a list of the world’s most polluted places. This despite the fact that Patwardhan, an Ayurved who doubles as an environmental activist, had filed a PIL forcing the construction of a Common Effluent Treatment Plant (CETP) in 2005. In its report, Blacksmith Institute noted that “approximately 1,800 tons of hazardous sludge had accumulated at the Mahad CETP”.

 Today, the picture is much rosier. In 2012, the Mahad CETP began pulling up its socks following a series of Bombay High Court orders. They upgraded their infrastructure, installed an online monitoring system to check the quality of effluent entering and exiting the CETP, appointed competent staff and forced individual industries to pre-treat their waste so the CETP wouldn’t be burdened with an excessively high pollution load. They even got ISO certification. 
 
 By January 2013, the High Court recorded that Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) levels – a valuable test for assessing organic pollution – had plummeted to a monthly average of 356mg/L. This was higher than the prescribed standard of 250mg/L but a far cry from its all-time high of 7,320mg/L in 2005. As of September 4, 2017, the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) recorded Mahad’s COD at 144mg/L.
  
 Mahad’s story is not unique. Many other CETPs have followed its lead. The turnaround can be traced to a 2011 PIL, filed by activist Nicholas H Almeida, a trustee of Watchdog Foundation. The PIL resulted in many High Court directives including constant monitoring of malfunctioning CETPs, strict action against industrial units flouting pre-treatment norms and the setting up of new CETPs in places where the pollution load exceeded a plant’s capacity. In Tarapur, for instance, the CETP had a capacity of 25 million litres per day (MLD) but was handling 40 MLD. Perhaps the most farsighted directive was forcing the MPCB to test CETPs’ effluents every week and upload the results, says Godfrey Pimenta, also a trustee at Watchdog. “Now, this data is forever in the public domain.”
 
 Besides COD levels, the MPCB also uploads Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) levels, pH values, suspended solids (SS), and total dissolved solids (TDS) along with a chart highlighting permissible limits. P Anbalagan, member secretary of the MPCB, confirms that when he joined in 2015, just 8-10 out of 26 CETPs met existing standards. Today, he says that number has jumped to 18-20 out of 24 thanks to stringent monitoring, night samplings and surprise checks. The total number of CETPs fell from 26 to 24 because a small one in Tarapur was merged with a larger plant and Additional Ambernath was closed when its pollution levels soared due to the accumulation of toxic sludge. About 90 industrial units were shut at the time.
 
 In fact, 600-plus industrial units, which were flouting environmental laws have been shut down across Maharashtra – 90% of them in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. As for those CETPs still exceeding permissible standards like Ratnagiri’s Lote Parshuram, Raigad’s PRIA and Tarapur, Anbalagan claims they’ve shown significant improvement and are now just marginally above prescribed levels. But experts say this must be weighed against the amount of effluent discharged. Tarapur, for instance, has the highest capacity of 25 MLD so when it discharges waste above the permissible standard, the impact is greater. 
 
 SS and TDS levels for many CETPs remain in the red zone. The MPCB is dismissive of these results pointing out that “this shouldn’t be an issue for coastal discharge where there is sufficient water volume for dilution”. Not all environmental engineers agree with this assessment. Shyam Asolekar, a professor at IIT Bombay’s Centre for Environmental Science and Engineering, terms this view “non-scientific” because the results of flushing large quantities of SS and TDS into the ocean will only be apparent decades from now once it’s too late to rectify. He also fears that current standards are too lax. 
 
 If industries bypass pre-treatment norms and surreptitiously discharge highly toxic effluents into the CETP, it cannot effectively treat the waste. Hence, the MPCB is in the process of implementing an online continuous monitoring mechanism. All industries disgorging more than a certain amount of effluent must install a device, which automatically monitors the volume and toxicity of effluent and uploads the results every 15 minutes to the MPCB server. However, this doesn’t solve the issue of industries disgorging untreated waste directly into a water body to avoid paying high CETP dues. In Taloja, we observed a canal of red-brown sludge flowing directly into the Kasadi River.
  
 While the situation is better than before, activists insist it is far from perfect. Two weeks ago, Patwardhan from Mahad noticed dead fish floating in the river and had to call the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to investigate. The fight continues.
 
