PATNA:   is no longer a taboo in Patna with many opting to find a   after  .

 “At least 40% of the 110 marriages I mediated last year pertained to second marriage,” said  , who runs a marriage bureau with its office near the Dak Bungalow roundabout. According to him, the trend has developed in the last one decade or so with the majority of such cases belonging to the age group of 40-60 years.
 
 Recounting his experience with these clients, Avinash told this reporter on Saturday family members, especially children, were earlier not supportive of their parents tying the knot again. “But things have changed... I know instances when children took the the initiative to get a spouse for their widowed parent,” he said.
 
 Another marriage bureau running from Kankarbagh has seen a similar trend. “Nobody wants to remain alone these days. Even people in their 60s are keen on finding a life partner,” said Sonam Jha whose bureau claims to have helped settle 180-odd weddings last year.
 
 Mithileshwar  , who runs one of the city’s oldest marriage bureaus since 1989, recalls he started receiving profiles of second marriage aspirants around 2010. “Such cases were rare then. Today, at least half of the profiles being handled by my bureau are for second marriages,” he said, claiming he recently had a 70-year-old widower looking for a widow or divorcee his age.
 
 Although marriage bureaus admit more men than women are coming forward for second marriage, even women who have married for the second time say friends and family no longer look down upon such couples. 
 
 Second marriage never occurred to Aasma (name changed) when she at the age of 35 lost her husband to cardiac arrest. Four years on in May 2014, this government employee ended up marrying Wasim, 46.
 
 Residents of Boring Road, they were family friends and knew each other for years with Wasim having announced long back that he would remain a confirmed bachelor. “I think destiny brought us together. Nobody from our families opposed, not even Aasma’s teenage son,” Wasim said, adding the society was now more sensitive to one’s need for a spouse to grow old with under one roof.
 
