

 What will I do once I get out? I hate myself for what I have done. My family is too poor to bail me out, will I rot here forever? These are some of the questions that   is learning to grapple with. Questions raised by young, aggressive voices confined inside prison walls. Mangla is the first woman officer to be given charge of the men’s prison that houses young male offenders in high-security Tihar.
 
 Jail No. 7, as it is known, houses 898 offenders aged 18-21 years who are kept segregated from other undertrials and convicts. Mangla says, “The inmates are very aggressive, but scratch the surface and they are immature and lack discipline.’’ The challenge is to understand their worldview, their reasons for committing the crime and then help solve their problems. It’s a job where a mix of psycho-babble and a sympathetic ear comes in handy. “I tell them you have just one life, do something about it today before it is too late,’’ she adds.
 
 Mangla, 51, studied at Delhi University’s  , dabbled in a career in banking before turning to the Delhi administrative service. She has held various administrative posts in Delhi and was posted as sub-divisional magistrate in Rajouri Garden before being given charge of the women’s section of Tihar prison in 2013. “The stint with the women’s section really moved me. Most of the inmates were poor, about 40% were illiterate and were serving time for crimes that had been committed out of ignorance or they had been cheated by their own relatives,’’ she says.
 
 The prison authorities have in the last two years begun literacy and English-speaking classes for women prisoners. “We roped in the foreign inmates to speak to Indian prisoners in English and improve their conversational skills,” she says.
 
 With some success in the women’s wing, Mangla was posted to the young offenders section in July last year. “It was an experiment. It has not been done before but I am enjoying my work,’’ Mangla says when asked about being the “first’’ woman superintendent of a men’s prison. She winces at being described as a “jailer”. “It’s too harsh. If we want to change mindsets, we have to stop using that vocabulary...I’m happy being referred to as superintendent of police,” she adds.
 
 It is a time-consuming job, taking 10-12 hours a day. There is also constant negotiation with prison authorities, civil society, companies to explore avenues for skilling the young people incarcerated for drug abuse, petty thefts, even rape.
 
 Does she believe that the prisoners can change? “Of course. They are all children. Just as kids always think they know better, so do these prisoners, but they have probably not been taught the difference between right and wrong. I hope we can do that here before they go back to society,’’ she says.
 
 The prison has big plans to engage the young. “In the coming months,” says Mangla, “we will begin courses in photography, start a cricket academy, volleyball coaching besides a course in gemology. These will help in reform and rehabilitation.’’
 
 Her busy schedule leaves little room for spare time but Mangla, a mother of two, cherishes the Sunday she spends with her family. She is currently reading Amish Tripathi’s Secret of the Nagas. Does it get tough to balance a demanding career and family? “If you enjoy what you do, everything works out,” she says as she heads towards the jail.
 
