PATNA: The   ( )’s Class X results are likely to be delayed as secondary teachers have decided to boycott the evaluation work until their demands, including ‘equal pay for equal work’, are met.

 A call to the effect has been given by the Bihar Secondary School Teacher’s Association (BSSTA), which has over 50,000 secondary teachers as members. They have boycotted the Class X examination evaluation work for the third consecutive day on Monday. 
 
 Over 7.63 lakh students from across the state have written the Class X (matriculation) exam this year. The evaluation of the answer books was to begin on April 1.
 
 The BSSTA has also planned to form “an education human chain” in   on April 15 in support of their demands, which include service conditions of contract teachers on a par with those of regular teachers. The association has also launched a signature campaign in all the districts to get support from the general public.
 
 BSSTA general secretary Shatrughan Prasad Singh told TOI on Monday the association wrote to CM   and the education department on March 20, informing them about the agitation plan. “The government in 2015 announced the teachers would get all the benefits within three months. Almost two years have elapsed, the announcement has remained on paper,” he said.
 
 “Contractual teachers of government schools should get salaries and perks equivalent to those of permanent teachers. The average salary of contract teachers is around Rs 9,300 per month while that of the the regular teachers is around Rs 34,800,” said Singh. 
 
 He said the government and the BSEB were equally responsible for the woes of teachers. “The teachers have not received payments for the evaluation work they did last year,” he said.
 
 Citing a Supreme Court’s judgement of October 26, 2016, the association said the apex court has ruled that “equal pay for equal work” is a constitutional right of every employee, be it regular or temporary.
 
 BSEB chairman Anand Kishor, however, said the boycott of evaluation work would not solve the problem of teachers. “The agitating teachers are jeopardizing the future of students whereas their grudge is against the government,” he said.
 
 
