KOCHI: Busting the myth that allergy to spices are rare except for mustard and garlic, a new study in the state shows that Malayalis are allergic to even pepper and ginger resulting in  , a type of skin allergy.

 Wheat, followed by garlic, ground nut, cashew nut, prawns, ginger, peas and black pepper are the most common offending food allergens in chronic urticaria.
 
 But unlike in Western population, allergy to citrus fruits like orange, lemon and tomato are not common in the state. Even allergy to dal items also seems to be uncommon, states ‘A cross sectional study of the profile of   among patients with chronic urticaria in Kerala’.
 
 The study was conducted by the department of pulmonary medicine, Government TD Medical College, Alappuzha, to identify the skin sensitivity to various food allergens in patients with chronic urticaria and to analyse the regional pattern of food allergy in Kerala. The study shows that 98% of patients with chronic urticaria had some form of food allergy. The common offending food allergens were wheat (28%), garlic (22%), ground nut (20%), cashew nut (18%), prawns (17%), ginger (16%), peas (12%) and black pepper (10%).
 
 “Food allergy can occur in isolation or in association with various clinical conditions such as chronic urticaria. The prevalence of food allergy is on the rise, owing probably to the changing food habits, multiplicity of food items with innumerable components and overuse of food additives and colouring agents. Identifying the offending allergens and avoidance is one of the most important measures which may help in the management of skin allergy,” said Dr Venugopal Panicker, additional professor, department of pulmonary medicine, Government TD Medical College, Alappuzha, and one of the authors of the study. 
 
 Urticaria, also called hives or wheals, is a common disorder with a prevalence of around 15%-20% in the general population, with patient complaining of severe itching and redness of the skin. The itching of the skin in case of chronic urticaria is more prominent at night. Prevalence of chronic urticaria is around 1% in general population and both children and adults can develop it. Women are affected twice as often as men and the common age group affected is between 30 and 50 years.
 
 Published in the Journal of Evidence Based Medicine and Healthcare (JEBMH), the study selected 100 patients with chronic urticaria who had predisposition towards developing certain allergic hypersensitivity reactions. 
 
 “The treatment of chronic urticaria is challenging and if the aetiology is food allergy, the patients can lead a normal life by simply avoiding the offending foods and its components. Almost 79% patients with food allergy are allergic to multiple allergens,” added   
 
 
