NEW DELHI: It cannot but recall the childhood story of the piper leading the mice to their death as city fathers looked on approvingly. In a modern retelling of the tale, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation is struggling with a similar overabundance of rats, so much so that many senior   have traps set up in their chambers in the civic body’s headquarters.

 The rats, popular lore has it, have grown fat on the remnants of daily lunches and snacks. However, that is the least of the problems, for the rodents are not averse to nibbling important documents for a light repast. As an official recalled, “The   had gnawed off the bottom of a paper that contained the signature of the approving authority, and officials had to get the paper re-signed in order to make a payment to a vendor.”
 
 Another official described the danger inherent in such cases, particularly for honest bureaucrats. “The integrity of the official would be in question if somebody discovered that payments had been made on the basis of a paper that had no approval signature,” he said. No wonder peons have been instructed to keep all important papers in metal almirahs.
 
 While EDMC spokesperson Yogendra Singh Maan insists that “in the recent past, no major destruction of records by rats has been reported”, the junior employees roll in mirth at the trouble caused to the brass by the vermin. A clerk could hardly restrain himself when he related how the commissioner, no less, had brought all office work to a halt last year after a foul smell emanating from somewhere in the false ceiling gagged him in his chamber. When his staff could not sniff out the offending carcass, experts came from North and South Corporations to “guide the sweepers to the dead rat”.
 
 Officials said the ground floor is the worst-affected, though staff on the first floor hastily adds that the rodents are not particularly choosy about the floors they inhabit. “No floor is free of rats,” intoned an official. Government employees have the reputation for arriving for work with an eye on the clock that shows when the day ends, but in EDMC, the first thing the people do after punching in is to find a way to protect their lunch. It is common, therefore, to see the metal cupboards crowned with a plethora of lunch boxes.
 
 The rat traps that the top babus are using were procured for use during the 2010 Commonwealth Games, disclosed a veterinary department official. Caught in the rat race, the civic officials would perhaps hope that their tormentors are eliminated forthwith. However, the veterinary department only releases the whiskered creatures far away from the corporation premises.
 
 
