PUNE: A sessions court here has upheld a magisterial court’s order directing trial against a leading property   for alleged   and criminal breach of trust in the sale transaction of a 5,000 sq ft plot at village Rehe in   taluka, near here. 

 Navi Mumbai resident   had approached the Pune magisterial court with a complaint that K R Malik, chairman, Sairung Developers and Promoters Private Limited, neither delivered the plot as per a memorandum of understanding (MoU) executed between them nor did he return the Rs 9 lakh advance collected from her despite repeated correspondence. 
 
 Judicial magistrate first class   had passed an order on October 3, 2016 issuing process against Malik and directing the complainant to lead the evidence by examining herself and other witnesses. Malik had filed a criminal revision application against this order in the sessions court. 
 
 Additional sessions judge Mohammad Nasir M Saleem referred to the complainant’s overall averments and held on March 17, “The magistrate rightly found sufficient material for proceeding against the applicant (Malik) holding that he had fraudulent and dishonest intention since the beginning of the transaction and, therefore, retained Rs 9 lakh for his own use. I do not find that any error of law is committed by the magistrate while issuing process against the applicant. In the result, the impugned (under challenge) order is sustainable.”
 
 Malik’s lawyer   told TOI on Wednesday, “We have a 30-day period for moving an appeal in the Bombay high court. A writ petition will soon be filed against the sessions court’s order.”
 
 Judge Saleem dismissed arguments on behalf of Malik that the transaction was of purely civil nature and the complaint did not make out any cognisable offence. That, the impugned order was inconsistent with an earlier order on May 10, 2016 wherein the JMFC had held that there was no need for directing a police probe, and the contents of the MoU and the complaint were overlooked while issuing process. 
 
 The court held that a magistrate has to be prima facie satisfied with whether sufficient grounds for proceeding against the accused exist and cannot go into the merits and demerits of the complaint nor can a revisional court do so. The court observed that the May 10, 2016 order was confined to the issue of police probe and can’t be construed as rejection of complaint. 
 
