LUCKNOW: After initiating the private schools’ fee regulation bill, the   government will come up with a transfer policy for government teachers in government secondary schools, said deputy chief minister  . The transfer policy is expected to draw heavily from the one implemented recently by the Haryana government. The idea to have a transfer policy is to ensure an equitable and demand-based distribution of teachers. This would protect the academic interest of students and optimise job satisfaction amongst the teachers in a fair and transparent manner.

 As per Haryana’s policy, the transfers would be based on a set of parameteres, including the age and gender. The decision of allotment to a vacancy would be based on the total composite score earned by a teacher out of 78 points. Sample this: In terms of age, the eldest person can earn a maximum of 58 points while in case of any women seeking transfer, 10 extra points will be given to her. Special category women teachers, comprising widows, divorced, separated, unmarried over 40 years of age, wife of serving military and paramilitary personnel working outside the state will be awarded 10 points. Likewise, special category male teachers, which include widower with one or more minor children and/or unmarried daughters, will be given five points. 
 
 The policy also takes care of the differently-abled; visually impaired, hearing or speech impaired and those with locomotive disability. All such people with above 80% disability will be awarded 20 points each. A disability lying between 60%-80% will be given 15 marks while that between 40%-60% will be given 10 marks. Teachers who have mentally challenged children or 100% differently-abled children will be given 10 points. 
 
 There is another interesting factor which the Haryana government has included in its transfer policy. A teacher who produces good results in the state board examinations can earn a maximum of five privilege points depending on the percentage of results. All transfers are to be implemented within 15 days of their issuance. The Haryana government, for the purpose of teachers’ transfers, divided its government schools in various zones. 
 
 While convening a meeting of education officials, including a team of education department from Haryana, led by additional chief secretary PK Das, Sharma said digital database of serving teachers in secondary education will be created. For this, a three-member committee has been constituted. The committee is headed by special secretary, secondary education, Sandhya Tiwari with secretary, basic education, Ajay Singh and special secretary, higher education, Shambu Kumar as its members.   advisor DB Sharma and director, basic education, Sarvendra Vikram Singh will have a key role in drafting the transfer policy. 
 
 
