PATNA:   medical colleges’ PG students will be fined Rs 15 lakh if they quit their courses midway while the PG passouts will be fined Rs 25 lakh if they do not serve in the state for at least three years. In both the cases, the “aberrant” will also have to return the stipend paid to them by the state government.
 
  This was decided at a state cabinet meeting chaired by CM   on Wednesday.
  
  Sources said the government move was aimed at preventing the “wastage” of medical seats due to the change in career decisions of PG medical aspirants. Around 50% of the state’s 474 PG medical seats remain vacant in every session as the students either change their stream or shift to another college.
  
  Even the stipend given to these students goes down the drain, an official said, adding every PG student is paid Rs 25,000 per month as stipend by the state government.
  
  “Every PG medical student will be required to sign a bond at the time of admission to ensure the compliance of the state cabinet decision,” principal secretary (cabinet secretariat) Brijesh Mehrotra told mediapersons.
  
  The cabinet also approved a transport department’s proposal on Bihar Road Safety Fund Rule and Bihar Road Safety Council Rule. The state will initiate a move to identify accident-prone zones as “black spots”.
  
  “Road accident rate has gone up 2.05% and deaths due to accidents have increased by 4.6% in the country while Bihar has witnessed 10.34% increase in deaths due to road accidents,” Mehrotra said, adding every 200-metre stretch of urban, 400-metre stretch of semi-urban and 600-metre stretch of rural roads witnessing more than ten road accident deaths in a year would be identified as a “black spot”.
  
  The district magistrates have to submit the data on “black spots” by February 15. Necessary action like putting up of signage and reconstruction of the sharp turns will be subsequently initiated to prevent accidents at these spots.
  
  The cabinet also approved a law department’s proposal to make Justice   of the Patna high court as the executive chairman of Bihar State Legal Services Authority.
  
  BSHB lessees can now have freehold houses
  
  The Bihar cabinet at its meeting in Patna on Wednesday also decided to allow the conversion of leasehold property allotted to individuals by the Bihar State Housing Board into freehold property.
  
  The lessees can get the ownership by paying 10% of the market value rate of the property. The provision will be optional, not mandatory. It will also be applicable to the allotments made in future, sources said.
