Nagpur: Micro finance institutions (MFIs) have claimed that note ban, coupled with politicians’ statements encouraging borrowers to not repay, has left the entities bleeding in Vidarbha. MFIs operate in rural areas providing loans up to Rs15000 to 20000 to women.  There have been large-scale defaults in districts like Amravati, Akola and Wardha where the total loan book of the sector is pegged at over Rs1000 crore. The recoveries have come down to 40% of the advances, said representatives of Sa-Dhan, an association of MFIs. In the state, MFIs have a total exposure of Rs7,500 crore. The loan books in entire Vidarbha his estimated at Rs2,000 crore. Half of the amount is from the three problem districts of Amarvati Akola and Wardha.  Addressing a press conference, Harihara Mohatpatra, the associate director of Sa-Dhan, said the recoveries took a hit from November onwards. Till October, it was 99%, it slipped to 85% in November further touching 50% in December and in January it has come down to 40%.  There were similar problems post demonetization in other parts of the country too but the situation has stablilised elsewhere and even other districts of Vidarbha.  “The repayment took a hit due to note ban as borrowers largely had the old currency to clear the dues. However, after that, even the local politicians irrespective of the parties began encouraging borrowers to not repay the loans. The leaders are promising the borrowers that they will put up a case for loan waiver before the government,” he said. Note ban is no longer a factor for non-payment, said Mahapatra.  “There have been rallies attended by hundreds in which forms for loan waivers were being distributed by the leaders,” said a representative of one of the MFIs.  This has not only hit the profitability of the MFIs but also hampered the credit worthiness score of the borrowers maintained by credit information bureau of India limited (CIBIL), said Mahapatra.  Mini Bedi, the former chairperson and now an adviser to Sa-Dhan, said the high rate of interest and harsh recovery is expected to be one of the reasons for resentment among the borrowers. “May be the leaders have raised a banner against MFIs on these grounds. However a lot of issues need to be cleared, bringing the facts in right perspective,” she said. The rate of interest to be charged by MFIS has been capped at 26%. On an avareage, the MFIs lend at 24%. There is hardly a margin of 1% to 1.5%, in the operations. “Though there are rumours that MFIs charge as much as 37%, it is not true, “said Mahapatra. He added that the reluctance to repay is also affecting the rural livelihood as the loans are granted for small businesses.