CHANDIGARH: Political heavyweights from Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) are unsettled by their namesakes contesting as independents as they have the potential of queering their pitch by causing a mix-up among the voters.

 Congress sitting MLA from Guru Har Sahai, Rana   Sodhi faces another Gurmeet Singh Sodhi contesting as independent.There are two other Gurmeet Singhs trying their luck. But the other Sodhi says its a matter of sheer chance.“I decided to contest the election for the cause of the general category. Even after generating the maxi mum revenue by way of paying taxes, the general category voters has no politician stan ding up for them,“ he said.
 
 Similarly, SAD candidate and sitting candidate and sitting MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali from Dakha (Ludhiana) is competing with 37-year-old Manpreet Singh Akali (independent). The latter claims that he popular among his supporters “Akali“.
 
 “If the SAD is on such a strong footing then Ayali should not feel threatened by my candidature. The Election Commission has already checked all my documents,“ he pointed out.
 
 The SAD leader says his only concern was that the voter might get confused if the two names appear too close on the electronic voting machines (EVMs) but the issue has been settled as there will be names of five candidates in bet ween,“ he said. In Rampura Phul, Con gress nominee Gurpreet Singh Kangar faces two Gurpreet Singhs and another independent Gurpreet Singh Mehraj. AAP too faces the problem in Zira with party candidate Gurpreet Singh up against three namesakes contesting as independents. Similarly, Baljinder Kaur, AAP candidate from Talwandi Sabo will also have to deal with   (Independent).
 
 Additional Chief Electoral Officer C Sibin said the returning officers concerned had been directed to verify the antecedents of the independent namesakes to ensure that they were not faking their identity. “The process has already been followed in case of the Dakha candidate,“ he said.
 
 To end confusion among the voters over namesake candidates, the Election Commission of India has already decided to paste photo of each contestant next to his or her poll symbol on the electronic voting machine (EVM) during elections in five state, including Punjab. During the 2014   election, Congress candidate Capt   (Amritsar), independent Simarjit Singh Bains (Ludhiana) and AAP's Bhagwant Mann (Sangrur) too had their namesakes contesting as independents.
 
