Gone are the days when Malayalis used to behave with contempt towards any who identified themselves as belonging to the third gender. The progressive lot have always pointed out that the State could never claim to be inclusive until it allowed the LGBTQ community to co-exist.

 Thankfully, there has been a sea-change in attitude and the State even earned plaudits for being the first one to introduce a Transgender Policy. Many initiatives to provide respectability to the community have started showing results and even the common people began to treat them as a part of the society.
 However, recent instances like nine transgenders announcing their intention to quit the job provided by Kochi Metro and the recent arrest of six others for an alleged robbery have created doubts among many. “I am upset about what I am hearing about this community. It seems that while the State is going out of its way to rehabilitate them, they are not taking sincere steps to gel with the rest of the society,” observes Mini K C, a homemaker from Ernakulam. 
 
 Some of the residents of South Overbridge area in Kochi where the arrest happened two days ago, share similar misgivings. “Like my husband says, transgenders are also part of our society and they have the right to live their lives on their own terms. However, they should not create disturbances to others. We cannot step out of our houses in the night. By evening, we see them in groups outside our houses and customers coming in expensive cars to pick them up. This continues till early morning. They have even solicited my husband and 70-year-old dad. Yes, I know that prostitution exists in Kochi but I have never found any others to be this troublesome. After we filed a complaint to the police about it, the transgenders showered abuses on us,” says S Jithu, a resident, adding that a ‘customer’ who came to the area once mistook her to be one of them and tried to make a proposal. “We should give them space but then, ‘your liberty to swing your fist ends just where my nose begins’, doesn’t it?” Jithu asks.
 
 Meanwhile, the police say they are finding it tough to rein in the community. Circle Inspector A Ananthlal of the Central Police Station who arrested the six transgenders from Rajaji Road on Wednesday at 10.30 pm minces no words, “They are becoming a social nuisance. The more we try to understand their issues and be liberal, the more aggressive they have become.
  
 
 If you really want to believe what I say, you should take a stroll through the city post evening, especially through Rajaji Road, Ambedkar Stadium Road, C P Ummer Road and Valanjambalam area and see it for yourself. They not only disturb men and women but also harm them physically if they don’t get what they want.”
 
 The Inspector explains that he is getting frequent complaints against them and even after conducting many meetings with them, they continue with their ways. “The abuse and manhandling incidents are continuing. They make unnecessary fuss and create issues if we try to challenge them. They even have a trained dog which attacks pedestrians. If we do not act, their criminal tendencies will increase,” he adds.
 
 The transgenders admit that there are a few among them who have a tendency to disturb others. But they are trying their best to identify and reform them. Navas of Marvel, a transgender organisation, says, “I am not denying that there may be some black sheep among us. It is true that a few among us are forced to do sex work to make a living. But I would like to ask this; can they do it all by themselves if there are no customers?”
 
 Navas also refutes the police claim about the arrest. “Our friends were gathered at Rajaji Road on Wednesday to plan the paalukachal function of one among us who recently underwent sexual reassignment surgery. It was the guy who tried to rob us. And also we have no trained dogs and never have we tried to harm anybody. The police have never liked us and always try to hurt us, bringing in all kinds of charges,” he adds.
 
 Transgender Tripthi requests people including authorities not to generalise things with an intention to evict them. “We are finding ways to be part of the society, to blend in. I, for one, make jewellery and handcrafted accessories and sell them. We need some time to adjust to the normal routine and pace of the society,” she says.
 
 
 
 
