BENGALURU: In a disturbing trend, city police records show that   are freely  .

 The past three years have seen a steep increase in the number of cases registered against these drivers.   show that in 2014, a total of 8,107 cases were booked against school vehicle drivers for violating different traffic rules. The number doubled to 16,656 in 2016.
 
 Eight drivers ferrying school children were arrested in 2014 for driving under the influence of alcohol. In 2015, 15 drivers were arrested, and in 2016, 14 drivers were taken into custody on similar charges -showing a 175% spike. The checks were done in the mornings.
 
 The common offences were carrying more children than the prescribed limit, driving on one-ways, using mobiles while driving,  , say senior traffic officials.
 
 However, no police case was registered against any school management till now, they said. Many parents are worried over the increasing number of cases where drivers are driving drunk. Additional commissioner of police, traffic, R Hitendra told TOI it is the responsibility of the school management to direct their drivers and make sure that kids travelling in these vehicles are safe. “We will carry out surprise checks on these vehicles at regular intervals,“ he said.
 
 However, many parents are worried over the increasing number of cases where drivers are booked for driving under the influence of alcohol. Lavanya Niranjan, resident of Basaveshwaranagar, said she stopped sending her child by the school van, and is dropping and picking up her daughter, a class VIII student, every day. “For the first few years, I sent my daughter in the school vehicle. However, I was not convinced with the way children were bundled inside the vehicle,“ she said.
 
 Ramesh (name changed), driver with a private school in north Ben galuru who was recently fined for talking over his mobile while driving, said he has no option but to answer incoming calls. “Parents keep calling me, saying they are waiting or to inform that their ward is not coming to school. Often, teachers who happen to stay nearby call me, asking me to pick them up. If I don't answer, the school management takes me to task, he said, adding, Traffic is a big menace. Despite maintaining strict schedules, we sometime reach late.“
 
