CHANDIGARH: A town once touted as the next best destination after Chandigarh could end up becoming Punjab’s   if the civic mess is not sorted out soon. That’s what residents of   fear. They raised the spectre of a slum transformation at a TOI roundtable on issues plaguing Zirakpur, listing haphazard construction, worn-out roads, poor drainage system and erratic power as the factors causing the downfall.

 Residents complained they have raised the problems of non-functional street lights, no solid waste management, potholed roads and encroachment by builders with the municipal council (MC) a number of times but solutions are still eluding.
 
 Col H P Singh, a resident of Zirakpur, pointed out that the main issue is that development is going on without any plan. “All this will have a negative impact in the long run,” he cautioned.
 
 Referring to a newly-built road in  , people said trees were planted in the middle of the road that caused an accident recently, leaving three people dead. Another stretch constructed just a few weeks back at VIP Road has 12-ft-deep potholes. Adding to the pain of commuters, streetlights installed on it are still non-functional.
 
 Zirakpur falling under Derabassi tehsil comprises Baltana, Dhakoli, Lohgarh Bhabat, Nabha, Ramgarh Bhuda, Peer Muchhala and Dyalpura. In 2000, its population was less than 20,000. It has now touched 2.5 lakh. The town has as many as 250 housing societies
 
 Residents said waterlogging is a regular feature whether it is heavy or light rain. They alleged builders are colluding with officials to encroach land without any fear of the law. Referring to an agriculture land located near Panta Home and Milton Tower at VIP Road, residents complained that shops were constructed without any approval of the local authorities.
 
 Admitting unplanned construction, municipal council president Kulwinder Singh Sohi said the government should make officials accountable in case of inaction. “Cases were lodged against encroachments in the past but officials now are giving a plea that they do not have any authority to take action,” he said.
 
 Stream once, VIP Road now 
 
 Municipal council president Kulwinder Singh Sohi shared that no roads were planned on VIP Road because a stream existed there before the area was developed. He said the authorities agreed to construct roads after plots were sold for a residential society after 2000.
 
 Quotes:
 
 Kulwinder Singh Sohi | President, Municipal Council
 
 It is decided in-principle that before the construction of any road a survey will be conducted of the area. Officials will check levelling of the road so that it is constructed properly and residents do not face any waterlogging
 
 N K Sharma, MLA, Derabassi
 
 With the setting up of   (Rera), the government can monitor builders of the area. For solid waste management, a policy has been proposed. Joint efforts will be made by Zirakpur, Derabassi and Mohali to start a public transport by launching 15 buses.
 
 Residents re-carpet road from own pocket
 
 As the local authorities turned a deaf ear on the complaint to repair a road for past two years near Gazipur, residents collected money and got the work done on their own two weeks back
 
