COIMBATORE: The   quality of India Inc is gradually recovering, but the underpinnings remain fragile because some sectors continue to struggle and several large companies remain highly indebted, ratings agency   has said.

 “As a result, the gross non-performing assets (GNPAs) in banking are expected to remain at elevated levels,” it said. Crisil’s credit   for fiscal 2017 (2016-17) stood at 1.22 times, which is similar to the 1.29 times seen in fiscal 2016 (2015-16), while debt -weighted credit ratio improved to a five-year high of 0.88 times compared with 0.31 times last fiscal.
 
 A reading above 1 indicates upgrades outnumber downgrades. “The improvement in the debt-weighted credit ratio was driven by firm commodity prices, stable macros, improving capital structure, and lower interest costs,” said Gurpreet Chhatwal, president, Crisil Ratings. “We expect the gradual improvement in credit quality to sustain,” he said.
 
 There were 1,335 upgrades and 1,092 downgrades during the year. Upgrades continued to be driven by companies from the consumption-linked sectors, while downgrades were driven by companies from the investment-linked sectors.
 
 “The impact of   on credit quality is expected to be transient,” the agency said. Crisil expects upgrades to outnumber downgrades in the near-term due to improving domestic consumption demand.
 
 Several sectors such as metals, especially non-ferrous, and sugar are expected to see improvement in credit quality in fiscal 2018 because of rising prices, it said. “While these improving trends will lead to lower NPAs in the banking sector in fiscal 2018, the underpinnings still remains fragile,” said Somasekhar Vemuri, senior director, Crisil Ratings.
 
 “We expect the stock of GNPAs to continue rising and remain at elevated levels. Further, recoveries would stay subdued given that sizeable NPAs are in highly leveraged companies with stretched cash flows,” he stated.
 
 “Several investment-linked sectors such as real estate and capital goods continue to see headwinds. Microfinance institutions (MFIs) are also seeing a build-up in stress. Also, many major corporate houses with high indebtedness would remain stressed in the near-term,” the agency said.
 
 While Crisil expects credit quality to improve in fiscal 2018 (2017-18), the pace of improvement hinges on a host of factors including balance sheet deleveraging through asset sales, another spell of normal monsoon rains, no further slowdown in India’s major trade destinations and pick-up in investment cycle.
 
 
