MEERUT: City’s meat shop owners are finding it hard to make ends meet. A number of people in the trade, whose licences have expired and are waiting for the Meerut Municipal Corporation for renewals, say that even if they regain permits, they will not be able to do business in the absence of slaughterhouses. “The nagar nigam does not have a slaughterhouse. So, even if we have licences, they are of no use,” said Nawaz Qureshi.
 
  In 2012, MMC’s slaughterhouse was demolished as it was found to be violating pollution norms. Later, a site was earmarked by the municipal body in   village on the outskirts of Meerut and construction work was started. However, a slaughterhouse never came up there due to a local property dispute.
  
  With the government crackdown on illegal private abattoirs, buffalo meat has vanished from the markets and people involved in the trade are finding it impossible to stay in business. “Since MMC did not have a slaughterhouse, we used an abattoir owned by a former MP. However, that too has been shut now and we have nowhere to go,” said  , a meat seller in Gudri bazar.
  
  Licenses of a majority of meat shops in the city expired on March 31 and MMC has laid down 17 new conditions to renew permits. “What will we sell if there is no slaughterhouse here? It is the corporation’s job to provide an abattoir and only then can our problems be solved,” said  , another meat seller in Gudri bazar.
  
  As per the Uttar Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1959, the construction and maintenance of public markets and slaughterhouses is an obligatory duty of the local corporation. “It is the job of MMC, but they have no interest in serving the population of the city. They should have provided a slaughterhouse long back,” said Rafiq Ansari, the Samajwadi Party MLA from Meerut City.
  
  Meanwhile, MMC claimed that it will soon resolve the issue. “We are working on it. There is a property dispute on the site and we will try and resolve it,” said Dr  , health officer, MMC.
