GURUGRAM: Two persons were killed in separate road accidents in the city — a pedestrian was killed near the   on Thursday and a truck driver near the   on Friday. Police have filed cases against the accused for causing death by negligence and rash driving. However, no arrests have been made so far.

 In the first  , a biker hit a pedestrian when he was trying to cross the road near Kherki Dhaula toll plaza around 6.30pm on Thursday.
 
 Following the crash, both the biker and pedestrian fell to the ground, an eyewitness said. The two men were rushed to a private hospital, where the pedestrian, who is yet to be identified, succumbed to his injuries. The biker has been identified as Saurav Dev Nath, 37, and his motorcycle has been seized.
 
 An FIR has been registered against the biker at the Kherki Dhaula police station under section 279 (rash driving) and 304A(causing death by negligence).
 
 “The unidentified pedestrian, who was around 30 years old, died due to head injury. We're trying to identify the body by showing his photos in factories around the area, as the person appears to be a labourer,” said ASI Gajraj, the investigating officer.
 
 In another accident, a truck driver got grievously injured and later died after his vehicle collided with another truck near the Garhi Railway Crossing around 4.30am on Friday. 
 
 The other truck driver escaped with the vehicle, said police. The accused is yet to be identified.
 
 Budha Bahadur, a driver hailing from Nepal, was working with a transport company, Gateway Rail Freight. He called up his company’s control room after he met with the accident. Company representatives Satish Shukla and Arun Shukla, reached the accident scene and saw Bahadur sitting on the ground, while the truck was badly damaged from the front.
 
 Bahadur told them that he had mild pain in his stomach. He also told them that a trailer, which didn't have the registration number on its back, rammed into his truck. He was taken to a private hospital in Wazirpur Road, which referred him to the General Hospital. He died while he was being taken to General Hospital.
 
 ASI Mahender Singh of the Sector 10 police station, where the case has been registered, said that the post-mortem was conducted on Saturday. The FIR was filed against the unknown truck driver under sections 279 (rash driving), 427(mischief causing damage) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.
 
 
