New Delhi: After   under the fourth cutoff   came to an end on Saturday, most vacancies in Delhi University colleges had been filled up. Only a slight   is expected in the next cutoff. Parents and aspirants rushed from one college to another inquiring about the number of seats and the subjects that are   to remain open for admission under the fifth list. 

 Till now, over 45,000 seats have been filled and most of the remaining ones are for reserved categories. College admission committee members said that the   won’t drop by more than 0.25-1% in popular courses for the general category as few seats are left. Popular courses like economics, BCom, English and psychology have already closed for admissions in most colleges and even after withdrawals, only four to five seats are left. The colleges will release the fifth cutoff list on Monday.
 
 On Saturday, many students came with queries to the university office, mostly over fee payment and access to the online registration form. “I forgot my password and wasn’t able to retrieve it. So, my admission under the fourth list is still pending,” said Roshni, who applied to Zakir Hussain College but was unable to complete the registration. The grievance cell received many such complaints on the last day of admission. 
 
 Colleges like Miranda House, Kirori Mal and Hindu saw parents inquiring about courses that are likely to remain available for admission. At Kirori Mal, almost all seats have been filled under the general and OBC categories. However, admissions may remain open for ST and Kashmiri Migrant categories. “We have filled almost all the seats. Only 250 seats are left that are mainly for unreserved categories. So, a fifth list is unlikely for the general category,” said an admission committee member at Kirori Mal College. 
 
 Admissions have been closed at   and at Sri Venkateswara, over 95% vacancies have bee filled for the general category. Some colleges are expecting withdrawals for BCom (programme) and BCom (H) courses after the results for bachelor in management studies (BMS) come out. 
 
 
