JORHAT: Hundreds of activists of various Mishing organizations, led by   (TMPK), staged a demonstration in all Mishing-dominated areas of  , Dibrugarh, Sivasagar, Jorhat, Golaghat, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur and Dhemaji districts demanding constitutional recognition to Mishing Autonomous Council (MAC) and over some other issues on Friday. 

 They also submitted a memorandum to chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal in Dispur with their 12-point charter of demands. TMPK general secretary   said, "We have submitted a memorandum to the chief minister to address our demands. Hundreds of activists staged demonstrations in the eight upper Assam districts for three hours from 9 am on Friday demanding constitutional recognition to MAC and other issues."
 
 The TMPK has fourteen district committees in Tinsukia, Sadia, Dibrugarh, Jonai, Silapathar, Dhemaji, Dhakuakhana, Lakhimpur, Bihpuria, Sonitpur, Bokakhat, Majuli, Sivasagar and Guwahati.
 
 Their demands included amending Assam Land Revenue Regulation Act, protecting   downstream habitations, amending Assam Education Act 2009, appointing Mishing subject teachers and publishing Mishing textbooks, ensuring rural electrification, declaring floods and erosion as national issues, appointing adequate medical staff and providing medicines and potable drinking water in rural areas. 
 
 The Mishing community has over 10 lakh people in Assam. The state government established the MAC under Mishing Autonomous Council Act, 1995, with it's head office at   in Dhemaji. According to the Act, the council shall be constituted comprising satellite and core areas for social, economic, educational, ethnic and cultural advancement of Mishing and other Scheduled Tribe communities residing therein. It also provides maximum autonomy within the framework of the Constitution, comprising satellite areas of Village Councils formed out of blocks of contiguous revenue villages, each having more than 50% population from the Mishing community.
 
 However, the council is yet to be included in the Constitution. 
 
 
