NEW DELHI: “This is an economic offence in which society as a whole is the victim while the honest payers of electricity charges are the sufferers,” remarked an additional sessions judge at the Special Court of Electricity in Dwarka in February while sentencing a call-centre owner to rigorous imprisonment for electricity theft in Palam. The convicted power stealer,  , however, is not the only one consuming electricity without paying for it. Last year alone, there were more than 10,000 cases of people being booked for the crime in the capital.

 Losses through theft account for almost 14% of the power supply in Delhi. With the temperature unusually hot this year, summer demand is expected to touch 6600MW, and power loss of this sort will put a heavy burden on the supply system. Unauthorised use of electricity is a cognisable offence under the Electricity Act, 2003, attracting stiff fines and imprisonment up to five years.
 
 However, the judicial process can take 7-8 years for completion. “Many people usually settle in forums like lok adalats, but we have to file FIRs for repeat or big offenders,” said a spokesperson for BSES, whose two discoms supply power in east and central Delhi and south and west Delhi. “In the last four years, we have lodged 3,800 FIRs and seen 1,300 arrests related to the FIRs.” He added that after the privatisation of power supply in 2002, overall power theft had come down, but many areas continued to record notorious loss levels of 25-50%.
 
 The two Reliance companies see high power theft in Najafgarh, Jaffarpur, Mundka, Karawal Nagar, Seelampur, Mandawali, Nand Nagari, Turkman Gate,   and Daryaganj, Dallupura, Khichripur, Shastri Park, Baljeet Nagar, Sabhapur village, Badarpur, Burari , Wazirabad and Shaheen Bagh. Discoms officials clarified that the malpractice was not restricted to any particular consumer profile or group, but to all categories of users.
 
 For Tata Power, which manages north and north-west Delhi, supply theft is reducing 10-12 % every year, but there has been an increase in the village areas of Bawana, Narela, Kanjhawla, Kirari, Bhaktawarpur, Jagatpur, Burari and the JJ clusters in Jahangirpuri, Sultanpuri and Mangolpuri.
 
 “The efforts of our inspection teams to curb supply loss are thwarted by organised gangs of power thieves,” rued a Tata official. “The enforcement teams are often ‘gheraoed’ and prevented from inspecting the suspect premises.” Discom executives have often faced attacks from such groups.
 
 The companies have tried to counter power theft with technological intervention — replacing bare wires with aerial bunched cables that reduce transmission loss and using tamper-proof meters and smart meter-reading devices to reduce power theft by a little less than half after taking over distribution 15 years ago.
 
 A Tata spokesperson said that the company now carried out a four-level energy audit to pinpoint areas of high theft. Automated meter reading is employed in case of high-revenue customers and theft is detected through the analysis of downloaded data. However, tip-offs from other consumers continue to play a pivotal role in identifying power thieves. 
 
