NAGPUR: The patrolling and cops deployed at sensitive   at Reshimbagh, which remained under strict surveillance, seemed to be not enough to thwart the increasing daredevilry of the burglars who had broken into two houses within a span of an hour in the early hours of Friday. 

 The miscreants’ movement near such a high security premises can serve as wake up call for city police. It is even more embarrassing that thieves were stealing valuables from another residence in the vicinity when the cops were probing the earlier case almost nearly 50 meters away. 
 
 After a woman form the Farande family raised an alarm, the thieves sneaked into the residence of builder Vilas Harde in the same neighbourhood. But the cops remained clueless. 
 
 While the cops from Sakkardara police station had already reached Farandes’ place to inquire into the incident, the thieves were searching for valuables at the residence of the Harde family. 
 
 As Vilas, sensing some strange movements in the house, rushed to chase the miscreants they fled the place leaving behind the valuables they had packed from the house. However, they stole cash Rs50,000. Intriguingly, the thieves also left valuables stolen form Farandes at the residence of the Harde family. “The thieves were armed with rods and could have attacked too,” said Vilas. 
 
 A delegation of residents, led by BJP corporator Dr  , met the senior PI of Sakkardara police station   after the shocking thefts. “There had been a spate of thefts in and around Reshimbagh but cops brag about patrolling whenever we try to meet them. There had been a theft at the residence of Dalvi family too near Gillurkar hospital. Constantly there are thefts of cycles and two-wheelers apart from other nuisance in the locality,” he said.
 
 Dr Bhoyar said a police chowky has been sanctioned near   at Reshimbagh which hopefully would curtail the incidents. 
 
 “The residents have complained to police about Shaukeen  . This pan kiosk serves as the venue for the miscreants,” he said. 
 
