THANE: Cops investigating the petrol pump scam revealed that the prime accused,  , enjoyed a flashy lifestyle, criss-crossing through the continents travelling to over 40 countries during his decade-long employment with a company that manufactured electronic fuel dispensing systems.

 The 49-year-old technician was arrested by the   crime branch from Hubli last week for his involvement in the petrol pump scam. Cops believe that he was involved in the sale of the tampered machines in foreign countries as well.
 
 “After verifying his passport and interrogating him it has come to light that in a short span, Nulkar has toured around 40 countries. Also, he would travel to places more than once, like he visited China four times, Thailand five times and twice to Mauritius, Hong Kong and  . It is highly unlikely for a technician to have enough money to go on a tour to so many places. The company where he was employed had sent him for work only to Japan that too just once. We suspect that he has some contacts in these countries and checking whether manufacturing units of these countries were in India and what links Nulkar has in these places,” said DCP (crime) Abhishek Trimukhe.
 
 The officials claimed that they are checking his property around Mumbai and seeing if he owns any land in other parts of the state to get an idea as to how much he’s earned because of the scam. Nulkar had worked as a technician for 13 years after which he started his own business and opened a store in   where he used to sell equipment related to petrol pumps.
 
 “When we enquired as to why he had visited so many places, he stated that he went touring around the globe as he loves to travel. When asked as to why he did not visit any of the European countries, he had no answer,” said a senior officer.
 
 The Thane crime branch raided around 118 petrol pumps in 17 districts in the state and have come across 69 fuel stations who had tampered with the dispensing units.
 
 “We even seized various equipment which were used for tampering like 222 pulsars, 24 sensor cards, 95 control cards and 94 keypads. As of now we have made no new arrests and all the accused including Nulkar are in judicial custody,” added Trimukhe. 
 
