New Delhi: The   police has collaborated with   (NIC) to re-launch its Traffic   app where a violation complaint filed by a person will automatically scan the e-vahan and e-sarathi applications for quick prosecution. Traffic officials said people could also report about accidents on the road using the app.

 “Once a person clicks the photograph of the numberplate of a violating vehicle and posts it on the app, the traffic police will also receive the registration details of the vehicle along with its location and time of violation,” said Ajay Kashyap, special commissioner, traffic. NIC has also provided the police with data about repeat offenders that will help them issue challans quickly.
 
 The new avatar, which will be launched soon, will also allow the police to check vehicle registration information from the photo of a numberplate. 
 
 The earlier version of the application was not popular due to speed and connectivity issues. 
 
 To become a traffic sentinel, a person will have to download the   and enroll himself. To register a complaint, all that a user will have to do is capture a photo or a video through the app, put in basic information (such as place of offence, date and time) and press the send button. In GPS-enabled phones, the date, time and location will get automatically embedded. He will get an acknowledgement and a unique transaction number for each photograph or video uploaded.
 
 If the offence and the vehicle numberplate is clear in the photograph or video, it will be validated at the traffic police headquarters. Reward points will be allocated and the sender will be informed via email. Once the minimum number of points are accrued, the user might be given a reward by the police.
 
 The   app is being fine-tuned and the existing users are being asked to upgrade their version.
 
 Under the previous scheme, every violation reported through the app had different points. Driving against the flow of traffic had five points, yellow line violation two, parking on footpath one, and triple riding two. Defective numberplate, driving without seat belt, without helmet and stop line violation offences had one point each.
 
