In a constant battle between the concrete jungle and the dwindling flora-fauna, it is a rare sight to spot a house sparrow. World   is celebrated today and conservationists feel that more needs to be done than just have a day dedicated to this small bird species. MB Krishna, ornithologist, says that the numbers of   in the recent past has remained static and has not risen. “Population of birds has dropped to an approximate 5% as compared to 30 years ago in Bengaluru. The population of sparrows in particular has not improved. Since green patches are getting isolated, the number of sparrows has not risen. There were many areas in Bengaluru where sparrows were present but now, they have disappeared from those localities,” he adds.
In Benglauru, sparrows, as of today, can be spotted across 40-50 locations, says HS  , researcher. “You can spot them around   station, KR Market, Malleswaram, the passport office near  ,” he says. Other places are Kempegowda International Airport, Majestic and Yelahanka.
 Researchers feel that lack of scientific data on sparrows is one of the biggest hurdles. “There is no proper scientific data available on sparrows. The main source of information is mostly through observations by bird watchers or individuals,” says Sudhira. Oan Dilawar, co-founder,  , adds, “Scientific data on sparrows is lacking. We want to monitor sparrows and their activities but the scientific community is still not developed and doesn’t have the data we need.”
 Sudhira says that lack of government support too is an issue. “The government needs to be proactive. For that we need more and more people to come together and raise a concern, only then the government will take notice of the issue.” Oan, on the other hand, says that it is only now that work has begun at a local level. “It is only now that we have started working with the local authorities and are trying to map issues at a local level,” he says. He believes there is still a long way to go for the government to take notice of the issue.
 So what can be done to conserve sparrows? Oan feels that there has been a rise in awareness among people and that might help in some way. “More people should take ownership towards conservation. People should do different kinds of research and must come forward with that.” Krishna feels that the work must begin at a sub-urban level as sparrows live in private space. “People can grow shrubbery and can have a courtyard. Cementing the entire area would be bad as sparrows need soil. If one can create an environment starting at the sub-urban level, there might be a chance to see more sparrows,” he says.
 
 - Sandra.Fernandes@timesgroup.com
 
