MYSURU: Shravana, a Class 3 student from Bagalkot, is lucky. When she and her schoolmates checked into Mysuru city, the first thing she heard was that   would reopen on Friday. 

 The bunch of 50 students from Bagalkot School, which was winding up their four-day long trip, were early birds at Mysuru Zoo on Friday. “I was elated to know the zoo would reopen on Friday. This was my first visit to Mysuru. It would have been disappointing if the zoo had remained closed. We would have gone home without seeing the animals,” said Shravana, a student of KGS Kakanur School, in Badami taluk. 
 
 School teachers Akkamahadevi and Vijayalakshmi said they had a hunch the zoo would be reopened. “Five teachers and 50 students left Bagalkot on January 31 on a four-day visit to South Karnataka and were on the last leg of our tour. Though Mysuru Zoo was on our tour list, we were wondering whether it would open. Then the media broke the news when we arrived at   late on Thursday,” they said, happy that the kids will take home happy memories.
 
 Like them, Gulappa Chanappa Walikar’s family too was happy about the zoo reopening. As soon as they learnt about it, they headed to Mysuru the next day to visit the zoo. 
 
 Walikar said in all, 10 members from   taluk of Vijayapura district toured Mysuru and its surrounding tourist spots. He claimed they were aware of the zoo’s closure due to avian influenza, and consider themselves lucky that it reopened when they reached Mysuru. Nearly 100 tourists queued up at the entrance of Mysuru Zoo just before it opened at 8.30am. Tourist inflow slowly picked up and at the end of the day, the zoo received around 4,000 visitors, which the zoo authorities said is an appreciable number. On an average during off-season, the zoo receives about 5,000 visitors. 
 
 “It was just another day at Mysuru Zoo on Friday, when it reopened nearly a month after it was shut,” zoo executive director K Kamala said. “The zoo received nearly 300 visitors till mid-day and 1,000 visited in the afternoon, as on a normal day.” Kamala claimed the zoo had taken all precautions and visitors needn’t worry about health hazards. 
 
 
