JAIPUR: Additional district magistrate Mohammad Abubacker told TOI on Friday that a request has been received for converting a portion of the government senior secondary school at Durgapura, functioning from an ancient ‘haveli’ close to the bus stop, to a medical dispensary.

 “I inspected the site, and the proposal for taking over the portion that has been shut down is under consideration,” he admitted.
 
 Staff at the school, however, told TOI that the portion of the school proposed for the dispensary was used still used for taking classes.
 
 On March 6, a contingent of about 15 people barged into the premises, despite protests from the guard, for inspection. One staff member, not authorized to speak with the press, said, “They were looking at the areas in the school that were still functional. The dispensary, at the moment, functions from a hired space. There is also an abandoned building nearby that was allotted for the dispensary some years ago. Why can’t they use it?” One small building has been shut, since the school that was functioned in it has now been merged with the primary school.
 
 The school first began functioning from this old ‘haveli’ in 1979. The grand entrance – the place that may have housed the guards when the building was first constructed over 100 years ago – now serves as a classroom for 182 children from classes 1 to 5. Behind this structure spreads a vast playground. To one side of the playground are other classrooms for children in higher classes.
 
 To one side is the   that has been shut. “The toilets in the building are in fine shape, and water supply to the empty building is good, so we still use it,” staff members on the campus told TOI.
 
 “Our children come from poor families. We are government servants and must ultimately abide by whatever decision is taken. This area, called Khwasji Ka Bagh, was given to Sindhi settlers who arrived as refugees from Pakistan after Partition. This refugee community has prospered and now has no use for the government school. Our students are drawn from slums nearby such as Sree Ji Nagar. Local residents would like to have use this space. But where will our students go?” asked one teacher, unwilling to be named.
 
 To the rear of the school is a two-storey building that, to all appearances, was part of the old ‘haveli’. Workers at the school say that this building was once a TB sanatorium. These days, large banyan trees have sprung up in the crevices, and huge cracks can be seen on the walls. Kavita Srivastava of People’s Union for Civil Liberties ( ) said, “This is a heritage building and the government should attempt to restore it. It would be a pity if the poor children were left without even so much for a school.”
 
 
