Antarctica — the name will probably bring a smile on any aspiring explorer’s lips. But as a reality check, it also denotes a place where many want to visit, but only a few make it to. True? Well, not really if you have a mission you are passionate about, a strong will, a free flowing internet connection (about which you will read later) and of course, some savings.
Hyderabad’s very own 31-year-old software professional-turned-author   had little clue that he will be savouring the icy grandeurs of the frozen continent in his lifetime. At least not until one of his dear friends got a chance to travel to one of the farthest part of the world.
 
 “I always wanted to get a first-hand experience of the   situation in Antarctica; how the majestic glaciers are rapidly melting and affecting our overall ecosystem. My friend,  , who was selected last year inspired me to apply,” he says.
 
 The application Nandan is referring to is of the Leadership on the Edge programme held between March 5 and March 15 every year to combat global warming. Organised by the 2041 Foundation instituted by  , the first person to walk to both North and South Poles, this programme selects a 140-member international team for an 11-day expedition to the penguin continent.
 
 “The selection depends entirely on the proposals submitted by each applicant on how they will garner benefits from the expedition. I applied in July 2016 highlighting my plans to tap India’s unexplored human resources to harness renewable energy. And there it was; the letter of acceptance from the foundation in October, 2016,” he informs.
 Sounds like a cake walk? It may, but the acceptance letter raised the most essential question in Raghu’s head — how to source about Rs10 lakh for the trip? “I had no idea from where I will manage such a huge amount. And my dream of stargazing on a moonlit night in the ice continent was almost broken, until some friends advised me to go for crowdfunding,” Raghu informs.
 
 He wrote his proposal mentioning everything about the trip, his plans of tapping India’s unexplored human resources to harness renewable energy and posted it on two popular crowdfunding websites. “Eureka! It worked. I managed to collect Rs1 lakh in just one and half months. About Rs 3.5 lakh was contributed by my friends and relatives, and I used my savings to get to the magic number,” he says, adding that of all the people who helped him collect the required amount, it was a student in his locality he will always remember. “One day he came and gave me Rs 500 and wished me luck. The gesture really touched me,” he says.
 
 The expedition gave him an understanding of how the melting of   would force millions to migrate and destabilise the world. “Now, my focus is on pooling in human resources to develop climate change solutions,” shares an optimistic Raghu, saying he is confident that his innovations will help mitigate the effects of global warming.
 
