It’s that time of the year when Coimbatore gears up to celebrate the spirit of the city and its rich culture & tradition, courtesy the  . The ninth edition of the festival is all set to kick-start on January 27 and will go on till February 5. This year too, the city has a plethora of events lined for the week that will keep Coimbatoreans on their toes. The fest will be a unique concoction of art, culture,  , eco-conservation, cleanliness drives and awareness campaigns for animals, education, science, technology, sports, entertainment, business and hospitality.

 Vijay Anand TR, who has directed the official song Kovai Paatu for the event, tells us, “This is the first time that we have shot a song at live locations and tried 360 degree shots. We have captured around 30-35 locations in the city in the video. Through the song, we have thanked the city for all that it has offered to us.   for the song is by Al Rufian, and the song has been sung by Diwakar and MLR Karthikeyan. The song portrays the spirit of the city.”
 
 While cyclists can test their endurance levels at the MVS   Carnival with the Criterium- a short road race on a circuit; amateur cyclists will be taken on a tour of the city on their cycles. There will be a 25 km ride for beginners and 50km ride for intermediate riders. Participants of both events need to ensure that their safety gear is in place, which includes reflective jacket, helmet, headlight and tail lights. Sulaiman Bhimani, organizer of the cycle tour ride, tells us, “The event is open to all. But those under the age of 18 years need to be accompanied by a guardian. The 25 km ride will be from Race Course to Decathlon and back; and the 50 km ride will be from Race Course to Kaniyur toll and back.”
 
 Those who were inspired by the way the public thronged to clean the Ukkadam Periakulam, can take part in a similar initiative titled Tsunami Sweep, which aims at making Coimbatore a better and cleaner place to live in. The clean drive will begin from Gandhi Park to Anaikatti (Thadagam Road stretch. Gloves, bags and nose masks will be provided at the venue.
 
 The musically-inclined, on the other hand, can soak in the melodies of the legendary playback singer KS Chithra. The proceeds of the event will go for the cause of animal welfare. “I am glad to perform in the city after more than a decade. As always, some of the hit songs of mine will be played at the occasion. There will be a special segment for audience’s choice as well,” says the veteran singer. The ten-day long fest includes art exhibitions, food festivals, yoga camps, heritage walks, museum visits, self-defense shows, sports tournaments, awareness skits, film screenings, robot carnivals, film festivals, mannequin challenges, dance performances and a host of cultural events. The vizha provides a platform for Coimbatoreans to celebrate the spirit of the city together. 
 
