Mumbai: Rating agency   and its Indian affiliate,   have said that domestic economic growth will slip to 6.6% in 2017 from 7% in 2016 as the economy moderates after demonetisataion, with a likely pick up in the second half of the year. However, India will remain one of the fastest growing major economies globally in 2017.

 “Even after the currency in circulation is replenished, we expect that India’s economic growth will stabilise with a lag, while remaining strong,” says Aditi Nayar, an ICRA principal economist. “The adjustment and recovery period could stretch to as much as 2-3 quarters for certain sectors.”
 
 According to ICRA, the focus on digital transactions and the introduction of a goods and services tax ( ) will likely reduce the competitiveness of the unorganised sector. ICRA therefore anticipates a relatively healthier expansion of the organised sectors in 2017, at the cost of the unorganised sectors.
 
 ICRA also says that the loss of incomes in some sectors and deferral of consumption are likely to weigh on capacity utilisation, delaying the capacity expansion plans of the private sector. And, the extent of capital spending budgeted by the central and state governments for the fiscal year ending 31 March 2018 will affect the extent to which infrastructure spending can stimulate growth in a non-inflationary manner.
 
 “Nevertheless, economic and institutional reforms already introduced and potentially forthcoming, continue to offer a reasonable expectation that India’s growth will outperform that of its similarly rated peers over the medium term, and that the country will achieve further improvements in its macroeconomic and institutional profile,” says William Foster, a Moody’s vice president and senior credit officer.
 
 Moody’s and ICRA point out that after a temporary dampening effect on consumption and investment in the medium term, demonetisation will likely strengthen India’s institutional framework — by reducing tax avoidance and corruption — and should support efficiency gains through a greater formalisation of economic and financial activity.
 
 On the fiscal front, Moody’s said that the government will likely remain committed to achieving its fiscal deficit target of 3.5% of   for the fiscal year ending 31 March 2017. However, room to reduce the deficit further to the target of 3% of GDP in the following year will be limited, due to the need for increased infrastructure spending and higher government salaries.
 
 While GST and other measures aimed at enhancing income declarations and tax collection will help widen India’s tax base and boost revenues, the boost to revenues will only materialise over time, with the magnitude uncertain at this point. As a result, the general government deficit will remain sizeable, and any reduction in India’s government debt burden will largely rely on robust nominal GDP growth. Moody’s expects that India’s debt-to-GDP will hover around the current levels (at 68.6% in 2015) before falling gradually, as nominal GDP growth is sustained and revenue-broadening and expenditure efficiency-enhancing measures take effect.
 
 
