A lot of joy for human beings comes from social interactions — casual outings with our families, hanging out with friends, chilling out with colleagues after work and making friends out of strangers. But in today’s technology-dependent, ultra-competitive world, it’s common to see people choosing to bury themselves in their smartphones over human interactions, skipping social gatherings because they are ‘boring’, venting out pent up frustrations on social media, putting in long hours at work, and the likes. In an irony of sorts, the connectivity that technology has provided us and the high salaries that are on offer are making us more isolated, serious and often times, depressed. On  , it only becomes imperative to ask the worrisome question — have we forgotten what it is like to chill out, bond with people and share a hearty laugh?
Bengaluru-based software engineer   reminisces about the time families used to meet and interact more often, instead of ‘staying in touch’ by sending meaningless forwards on WhatsApp groups. “Technology, no doubt, is a boon. But what it is also doing is providing us all a false sense of community. No matter how much connectivity we have, it cannot replace personal human interactions, which give rise to a lot of opportunities to meet, reminisce and share a hearty laugh. Visiting relatives during holidays or staying the entire two or three days of weddings, instead of paying flying visits, has become a thing of the past.”
 
 
  
 
 Growing competition in school, colleges and professional environments isn’t helping either, with cases of depression and suicides becoming very common around us. Psychotherapist Keerthana P says, “Students and young adults are constantly ‘on’ at all times because of their studies and careers. They really do not have an off switch, where they give their minds a break and focus on things that aren’t important. Often, they are made to feel guilty about wasting time. But what we don’t realize is that idle time is just as important for us, as it is to utilize time resourcefully. We’re slowly losing that balance of free time and work time, with more emphasis on the latter. And from the way things are going, it’s only going to get worse.”
 With comedy and entertainment just a click away, it is also making the jobs of comedians a lot harder. City comedian   says, “Technology has made people feel entitled, and given the uninformed a medium to voice their views, be it on humour or serious news. All the access to entertainment online has made sure that we cannot afford to crack simple, straightforward jokes. Our jokes have to be novel, different and away from all the stuff that would not make them say ‘Oh I’ve heard that one before on the internet. Tell me something better.’ Our job is definitely a lot harder today.” Another Bengaluru standup comedian   adds, “We look to technology over people for entertainment these days. It’s no more about hanging out with friends and relatives, as it is about YouTubing funny videos when we are bored. And in the hunt for new experiences, and the information for the same at the click of a button, just chilling with friends or colleagues is seen as a ‘waste of time’. I wouldn’t say that we’ve forgotten to laugh, but it’s definitely become a lot harder for us to, due to over-exposure and the hunger for new experiences.”
 
