VARANASI: After   on Sunday night in the area to  , two persons were arrested on Monday for   that the   was being captured by members of a   under limits of Sigra police station. 

 Police are trying to identify miscreants who pelted stones and those who staged a demonstration at Sigra police station on Sunday.
 
 Initial investigation indicated that the a dispute over the land, adjacent to a graveyard in Lallapura, was pending in court. A lawyer, Mahendra Singh Mintu, tie his cows on the land. SSP R K Bhardwaj said, on Sunday that Mintu was cleaning the cattle shed when some miscreants spread rumours that the boundary wall of the graveyard had been demolished on the directions of a BJP MLA. 
 
 A day before the second Monday of Shrawan, some trouble-mongers spread the rumour that the land of a mosque was being captured by some people in Lallapura. Within an hour, a crowd gathered and attacked the cow shelter near the mosque. Later, protesters also torched the shelter but its owner and his neighbours managed to rescue the cows.
 
 When police and paramilitary forces reached the spot, the mob attacked the forces. The security personnel had to use tear gas shells and rubber bullets disperse the mob. The fire-fighters doused the fire at the cattle shelter. 
 
 Divisional commissioner Nitin Ramesh Gokarn, IG Varanasi range Deepak Ratan, district magistrate Yogeshwar Ram Mishra, SSP RK Bhardwaj and many senior officials also reached Sigra to take stock of the situation. After the officials arrived, Lallapura locals gathered outside the police station and started protesting. 
 
 On the basis of complaint filed by Mintu, Sigra police lodged a named FIR against Dr Khwaja, Sajjad, Khurshid, Raju, Rinku, Sarfaraz, Bablu, Mukhtar, Munshi, Taufiq and over 200 unidentified persons. Another FIR was lodged by Sigra police against Khurshid, Mehtab, Idris, Babu and over 100 unidentified persons. Bhardwaj said two main accused Sajjad and Raju, who provoked and led the attackers had been arrested.
 
 Police said the remaining assailants were being identified with the help of video clips and photographs clicked by witnesses. Bhardwaj added, "We suspect the perpetrators might have links with an extremist group, given the timing of the incident."
 
 
