PATNA: As Class X and XII examinations conducted by the   (CBSE) just a few days away, experts are suggesting the students to eat, drink and sleep well and solve maximum sample papers to achieve good scores. The board exams will begin from March 9.
 
  “Students should not compromise with their study plan,” said Abha Choudhary, a chemistry teacher of  . “In each chapter, students must select the topics and revise accordingly. They should go through sample papers and previous year questions and not burden themselves with the topics they don’t understand. Students should believe in hard work and leave the rest to the God,” she added.
  
  According to English teacher of St Michael’s High School, Ipshita Sharan, students who studied throughout the year will certainly excel in their board examinations. “Students should eat healthy, drink as much water as they can and sleep well. Brain should be given proper rest to take three-hour long examination. Meditation and yoga will certainly help to distress the students. Handwriting must be neat and legible and students should not waste time on drawing lines,” she said.
  
  “Since the time is all about reviewing and analysing your learning efficiency, it is necessary to focus on what the students have already learnt during study preparations,” said Sanjay Kumar, a mathematics teacher of Delhi Public School, Patna. He added, “Students should not take up new concept to learn during last minutes of study. Concentrating on new topic doubles stress. Hence students must concentrate on revising what they have already learnt.”
  
   , president of Patliputra Sahodaya, a group of CBSE schools in Bihar, said students should not bother to do questions in sequence. “They should attempt the questions they can easily solve and do not tangle in tough questions and waste their time. Since the students have to do a fair amount of writing during the exam, it is important for them to practice writing. Exercise and meditation will help the students stay free of stress,” added Sinha.
  
  This time many students are also going for pre-exam counselling, which began in February, to overcome exam related stress.
  
  Arnav, a Class XII student of St Michael’s High School, said he was very overburdened with all formulas and numerical of physics. “I feel like everything is just slipping away from my mind. Meditation and drinking ample water help me to concentrate on my studies. The board counselling helps me to regain my confidence.”
  
  Aakriti, a Class X student of  , is now focusing more on the short notes she made for each chapter and by solving sample papers of last 10 years. “I am following the board experts’ advice to eat, sleep and follow study chart,” she said.
