PUNE: As millions watched President   being sworn in on January 20, some Americans in the city continued to feel gloomy about the inauguration. Even so, a few others decided to bury the hatchet and welcome Trump officially moves into the  .

  from California, who has been living in Pune for over a year now, had voted for Hillary Clinton. Trump’s victory had shattered her. It may be two months since the election, but Baecker still feels the same about Trump.
 
 “My views regarding the incoming president have not changed since his election because his actions as well as his cabinet picks have not inspired any confidence. He continues to show the same unsavory and unpresidential behaviour as he did throughout the election. Moreover, he has still not laid any sound groundwork for his transition. I can only say that I am heartbroken to see the Obamas leave the White House. In the past eight years, we were lucky enough to be led by a family that displayed such dignity and grace, something I doubt we will see a lot in the next four years,” said Baecker.
 
 27-year-old  , an American entrepreneur based in the city, said, “Since Trump won the election, we have learnt that he lost the popular vote by a historically margin, that he will not govern inclusively, and that he will act only in his own self-interest. From his refusal to divest his businesses, to his cabinet nominations, to his climate change policy, to his outlook on Putin’s Russia — the frequency and significance of alarming developments preclude a thorough analysis here.”
 
 Lesniewski added that he believes it has become clear is that the ‘American Experiment’ has reached a tipping point, which, as a result, will test the institutions and the will of Americans. 
 
 “We must avoid complacency and chasing the President’s latest tweets in order to organize and act as well as resist for a better country and future,” said Lesniewski.
 
 On the other hand, there are others who have reconciled with the situation back home. 
 
 Pune-based Cyrus Bharucha, who hails from California, said, “I have come to the conclusion that Trump has to be given a chance. I still do not have any respect for him but he is the president of the country now and I have accepted that. We will have midterm elections in two years. If he does not deliver until then, he would lose the majority in the Congress and the Senate. If that happens, he could expect a big backlash from his own supporters.”
 
 Pune-based Priya Thyagaraj, an American citizen since 2008, said, “Today, I am focusing on the peaceful transition of power and appreciating this incredibly unique moment. Regardless of one’s politics, we are and always should be Americans first, not  .”
 
