KOLKATA: It’s a   and revenge. But the   — a   Naimuddin Ghorami — ended up in the cop net. Ghorami, who wanted to be a constable with Kolkata Police, had invested a few thousands with one Sk Ali Hussain who promised to ensure that his dream was realized. A few months ago, Ghorami realized that he, along with several others from South 24-Parganas, had been duped. A complaint followed and   duly arrested Hussain.

 Days later, though, Ghorami realized that getting back his money would be a tough act. Seething in anger, he, along with four other youths, planned a daring abduction the day Hussain came to court for the case’s hearing. “It was a 42-day wait that the accused finally managed to execute their plan. On December 4, Ghorami and others kidnapped Hussain from outside Bankshal Court, took him to Diamond Harbour, and demanded Rs 50 lakh as ransom,” said an officer.
 
 On December 5, the Hare Street police received the complaint of kidnapping. Tracking the mobile tower location with the help of detective department, the Hare Street police arrested Ghorami within 48 hours. Hussain too was rescued. Four others involved in the incident, though, are still absconding.
 
 Lalbazar’s anti-fraud section that’s probing the role of Hussain said that he has been systematically duping youths. “We will approach court asking it to pass orders so that the cheated men can get some relief. However no one should be taking the law in their hands,” said an officer.
 
 Sources said it all began a year ago when Hussain had received Rs 1.5 lakh from all the accused. “As time passed, nothing materialized. Ghorami was under pressure from several sources to recover the money,” claimed an officer. 
 
 The genesis of these allegations lies in the March 2013 notification by the director-general and commandant-general of police home guards inviting applications for 2,268 home guard volunteers. The recruitment, sources said, was to cover 10 districts and two commissionerates — Howrah and Asansol-Durgapur. But it was for Murshidabad that the most number of vacancies — 315 — were advertised. 
 
 
