New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday made it clear that if the seventh pay commission is implemented in private unaided schools in the city, they will have the option to revise their   and inform the Delhi government.

 Justice Manmohan clarified that for this limited purpose the deadline of March 31 to revise fee will not come in the way of the schools.
 
 The court was hearing a plea by an association of schools against a   circular barring them from hiking fees to implement the seventh pay commission till the DoE takes a decision on it.
 
 "To presume that all private unaided schools are making profits is not correct as there are several contempt petitions before the court with regard to the non-payment of sixth pay commission,” the judge observed when DoE opposed the petitions.
 
 HC issued notice to DoE and sought its response on the plea of Action Committee of Unaided Private Schools which submitted that under the Delhi School Education Act it is required to intimate its fee schedule for the coming session before March 31 and the circular is contrary to this.
 
 Through advocate  , the schools told HC that if they fail to intimate the fee schedule, they won’t be able to hike the fees mid-session without prior approval of the DoE, which is unlikely to agree to any increase.
 
 The committee suggested placing before the court two fee schedules, one of which can include the recommendations of seventh pay commission so that if the DoE agrees to implement the pay hike for private unaided schools then the appropriate fee structure can be made applicable.
 
 However, the DoE opposed the suggestion and assured HC that in case a decision is taken to implement the pay commission recommendations in private schools, they can still revise the fee and March 31 deadline won’t come in the way.
 
 Meanwhile, advocate  , appearing for some teachers, said that the pay commission recommendations have been implemented in the government-run schools. The court listed the matter for hearing on July 12.
 
