NEW DELHI: Under the new Goods and Services Tax ( ) regime, 320 crore vouchers will be matched every month to   tax evasion, Union finance minister   said on Thursday. Calling it a big step towards eliminating corruption, Jaitley said the simplified tax system had a mechanism to identify  .

 Addressing a special programme on GST organised by Delhi BJP on the birth anniversary of the party’s founding member, Syama Prasad Mookerjee, Jaitley said traders didn’t have to fill up multiple returns. 
 
 “This is a destination tax. When the goods are sold, the state gets the tax. By 10th of every month, traders will have to just give an update about the goods sold. Just like we send an SMS, they have to file a return online. This will form a chain and every month we will match 320 crore vouchers. It will become easy to find tax evaders/defaulters,” said Jaitley.
 
 Urging BJP workers and supporters to create awareness about GST, especially among traders, the minister said it had put an end to 17 types of taxes and 23 cess. 
 
 Emphasising that multiple taxes and a complicated tax filing system had led to corruption, he said, “The system had become so complicated that taxpayers, who wanted to contribute in nation’s development, wanted to avoid it. People had to file six-seven returns. Now the entire country has become one big market.” 
 
 If a trader accurately files the returns, he will get the assessment orders online at the end of the financial year, Jaitley added. Another major benefit of GST, he explained, is that there will be “no tax on tax”. Economically weaker states, like the Northeast ones, “will also benefit from it”.
 
 While party workers and supporters who gathered in large numbers at Talkatora Stadium shouted slogans in his name for bringing GST, the finance minister gave the credit to Prime Minister  . 
 
 “No finance minister can do it without the strong backing of the Prime Minister. The PM was clear that we have to introduce the single-tax system. The government’s decision to compensate the losses incurred by the states in the first five years was the reason all states came together,” said Jaitley.
 
 
