By 
 

 The   is going up by the day and is expected to touch 40   this summer too. While most of us feel selfish to share the smallest of things we possess, or spend time or resources on something we aren’t likely to gain from, not so these two persons.   built   inside the   (IISc) premises seven years ago, and refill them to this day.
 
 For the two, who have been providing water to birds for over 15 years, this year isn’t any different. But they want to spread the message to others as this summer already has Bengaluru scorching at 37 degrees, and birds could do with some water to beat the heat.
 
 Speaking to Bangalore Mirror of their “highly satisfying” experience at IISc, Basavaraju, an ex-employee of the institute, said, “We used to play badminton in the campus in the mornings. One day when we walked in, we saw a number of birds near the court, and decided to make them comfortable. Water, we all know, is very essential for birds. Since there were natural pockets formed on the rocks they were sitting on, we embanked four such with concrete to make pools out of them. We would then fill them with water every morning. Birds began drinking from and bathing in our pools twice a day, in the morning and evening, which gave us immense satisfaction.”
 
 “Since it makes a lovely sight, I clicked pictures of the birds drinking from these small water holds and showed them to friends, who appreciated our deed,” added Srinivas, an entrepreneur who has now retired.
 
 “A friend told us we were doing a noble job that would pay us later in life or in our next birth. That is also one reason why I’ll never stop helping birds. Doing this gives me immense happiness and keeps my mind calm. I sometimes sleep on these rocks,” said Basavaraju.
 
 The two take care to clean the pools once in three days and pour fresh water in them. Each holds about 20 litres of water. “When we are not around, boys who take care of the nearby swimming pool maintain these pools,” revealed Srinivas.
 
 
 
 
 More than 10 varieties of birds have been spotted in the place, some of which are Golden Oriole, Scaled Munia, Bulbul, Oriental White Eye and Seven Sisters, apart from eagles and doves. The rare Jungle Wag Tail has also been seen here. “Even during winters, 30-40 birds come here for a drink on a daily basis. The number is more in summer,” added Basavaraju.
 
 According to Basavaraju, birds need to fend for themselves as far as food is concerned. “That way, they will get their natural food, but it is different with water. In fact, we want others to emulate what we are doing here near their homes,” he added.
 
 
