CHENNAI: Differences have cropped up in the   unit of the   over the crucial   scheduled for Saturday that would decide the fate of the Edappadi K   government. 

 Sections within the feud-ridden Tamil Nadu Congress Committee have accused its president S Thirunavukkarasar, with his AIADMK past, of softening towards the V K Sasikala-led faction and possibly taking a decision to direct his party MLAs to abstain from voting during the floor test on Saturday.
  
 Thirunavukkarasar has convened a meeting of the party’s eight MLAs, including Congress Legislature Party leader K R Ramasamy, at 4.30pm today (Friday) to take a formal decision on the issue. Many, including Ramasamy, appear not to be inclined to do anything that may upset its ally DMK. It is in the interest of the DMK that the two AIADMK factions fail to win confidence. An interim election may benefit the DMK.
 
 “We have convened a meeting and will announce a decision to the media by 5.30pm,” Thirunavukkarasar told TOI, declining to react to rumours that he was for abstaining from voting during the floor test. “We are in constant talks with our ally DMK’s working president M K Stalin. But we will meet and discuss what our stand would be during the party meeting in the evening,” CLP leader K R Ramasamy said.   whip S Vijayadharani was not available for comment.
 
 Speaking to reporters at the Chennai airport, Thirunavukkarasar said the new government headed by Edappadi K Palaniswami will have to be clean and honest. "The Governor has taken a good decision in asking Palaniswami to face a trust vote in the assembly. The new government must be receptive to people's demands and must perform as per their wishes," he said.
  
 The DMK, with a strong 89-member presence in the Tamil Nadu house, is a bit jittery. T K S Elangovan said, “We hope they would take a good decision. The CLP leader and members are clear that they would vote against the Palaniswami government.” 
 
 A senior DMK leader, however, added, “His closeness with the   family, including her husband M Natarajan is well-known. Hope he does not do anything rash.” The DMK and its allies Congress and IUML (one member), have 99 members in all. Ailing DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi will not be present in the assembly during the floor test.
 
 
