BENGALURU: Tsunamis and floods may come, but life takes a U-turn allowing one to sail. Kshitiz Aneja, a plucky youngster, swears by this motto. So do   and  , whose indomitable spirit has got them where they are today. 

 The trio was among the 12 students from the persons with disability category, who graduated from the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIMB) on Monday. 
 
 From   to Samsung, it has been an eventful journey for the fiercely independent Nikhitha, who has had to repeatedly prove herself. Belonging to a family of businessmen in Andhra Pradesh, she made the transition from the world of information technology to marketing. 
 
 “I left Infosys to look for more opportunities and experience more autonomy in life. Despite being physically challenged, my parents never kept me sheltered. Instead, they put me in boarding school so that I could learn to be independent. It’s my independence which has helped me get through everything,” said Nikhitha. 
 
 Kshitiz was 10 years old when he lost both his arms while flying kites. Today, the spirited graduate has two missions to accomplish – getting a driving licence and completing his documentary, ‘Necessity is the mother of all inventions’. He is also set to take on the role of marketing professional. “I was chasing the RTO officials when I heard that a person with no arms was given a driving licence in January. Though I’ve had no luck with the Bengaluru RTO, I will go back to my hometown (Saharanpur) and try so that I can drive soon,” said an optimistic Kshitiz.
 
 Since class 6, Kshitiz has independenly written all his exams. He’s mastered the art of writing with his legs and aspires to be a Paralympian some day. “I wanted to be able to do everything that a person my age does. A lot of experimentation and my parents’ support has brought me so far,” he said.
 
 Aditya, on the other hand, belongs to a family which gives much importance to education. Describing his stint at IIM-B as bitter sweet, he said the institution has humbled him. During the 22-month programme, Aditya, who’s afflicted with albinism, got a chance to study at the  . He also got a CA certificate after clearing the finals in his first attempt and has landed a job at Mahindra.
 
 “While growing up, I would keep the book close to my eyes or sit in the front bench to see what’s written on the board. But things got difficult at IIMB. Thankfully, the office of disability gave me an IPad equipped with the zoom feature, through which I could see the board clearly,” said Aditya, a resident of Jaipur.
 
 “Before coming here, I was proud of having achieved a lot academically. But when you’re in a room full of geniuses, you want to improve,” he signed off.
 
