 Ahmed, the Egyptian woman who is in the news for the controversy over weight-loss treatment at   hospital, will undergo a series of surgeries at Burjeel  , Abu Dhabi, as part of a year-long rehabilitative treatment, said Dr Shamsheer Vayalil, founder of VPS Healthcare, who is going to take care of her from Sunday.

 Eman had undergone a sleeve gastrectomy, which involves removing of a part of stomach to decrease the volume, at Saifee Hospital. As the next stage of treatment, she may need further surgeries, which may include a gastric bypass, doctors of VPS Healthcare have assessed in Kochi. This is a procedure of re-routing the digestive system past the stomach, so that the patient will digest less food and feel her stomach is full.
 
 “Firstly, when she arrives in Abu Dhabi, we will run a series of tests to assess her medical condition, mainly to find out if her organs are working normally. Then, when it is safe to continue, we may do a gastric bypass surgery. Our target is to bring her weight below 100 kg. Then we will need a couple of more procedures including plastic  , because, when she loses weight, her skin may sag. A complete makeover for Eman is what we are expecting to achieve,” Vayalil said.
 
 “What we are looking initially is to get the maximum weight-loss through the sleeve procedure that is already done. Then only we will go for gastric bypass. The plastic surgery procedures we are planning will include abdominoplasty,” Vayalil said.
 
 As a psychological support, VPS Healthcare is planning to bring Eman’s mother to  . “We are viewing it as treatment that needs long-term involvement from us and we will not stop with a single surgery. What Eman will need is full support, medically, morally and psychologically. To help speed up her recovery, we also plan to bring her mother from Alexandria. That may be beneficial for the treatment,” Vayalil said.
 
 At Burjeel Hospital, they have readied an huge room for Eman, and everybody is eagerly waiting to welcome her, he said.
 
