If we do not want to work in the night shift on a particular day and communicate the same to the human resource (HR) officer, some of them   from us

 It is scary for a woman to work all alone in the night shift, but some officials say there are legal issues and they cannot consider the issue of women employees
 
 Why don’t companies recruit their own security guards instead of outsourcing the security services? We see different security guards every day
 
 Software engineers raised several issues bothering them at workplace while interacting with city police commissioner   as she walked with IT professionals in the Hinjewadi IT Park on Tuesday.
 
 The police commissioner walked from the   premises to the Wipro campus with software professionals and interacted with them on the way. She was accompanied by joint police commissioner Sunil Ramanand, additional commissioner of police Shrikant Shinde and other senior officers.
 
 Shukla visited the IT Park against the backdrop of the murder of Rasila Raju OP (24), a software engineer working with Infosys. She was found murdered on the ninth floor of the company on January 29.
 
 About 100 software engineers and many police officers participated in the walk.
 
 Shukla later held a meeting with software engineers on the campus of Wipro in Phase II of the park. About 300 techies attended it.
 
 Many software professionals put forth their complaints before the police. Shukla promised to look into their grievances and said she would hold a meeting next Monday with the human resource (HR) department’s employees of different IT companies in Hinjewadi.
 
 Answering to the concerns of the IT professionals, Shukla said, “One should have the courage to say ‘no’. If you (a woman) are working all alone you should said ‘no’, if somebody is making advances at you, you should said ‘no’. Say no to crime,” Shukla said.
 
 On the shift timings, Shukla said she would hold a meeting with the company authorities, who she believed were sensitive enough.
 
 Shukla said she had told the companies to provide safety alarm buttons to female employees at the workplace and in vehicles used to ferry employees. She also said employees must not roam alone on the roads late in the night. “Why do you want to do this adventure?” she asked.
 
 One of the software engineers complained that the local residents, especially who wear white clothes and drive fancy vehicles, generally trouble software engineers on roads. Replying to the complaint, senior inspector   of the Hinjewadi police station said software engineers must contact the police station concerned and the cops will take prompt action against the persons in ‘white’.
 
 “In the past we have taken action against many persons and we shall continue to do so,” Waykar said.
 
 Earlier, the commissioner informed the software engineers about her ‘Police Buddy’ scheme, SOS helpline number 1091 and other platforms to report their complaints to the police.
 
