Learn to read the signs your body gives you, before injuring yourself seriously in the  
 
  selfies and videos are the rage today. Snap yourself flexing the right muscles, the right way and your Instagram followers could start shooting through the roof. But mind you, one wrong move in the gym and you could end up snapping more than just a picture. Like the ambitious Vadodara gym goer who became a sensation last week , when the video of his 500 kilo leg press gone wrong (his left leg snapped under the weight), received more than one million views in 24 hours. Now given there’s no way to convince someone drunk on   likes to give up on these risky videos, here’s what experts say on how to identify when you’re pushing your body way beyond its limit.
  
  
 
  Have you been feeling a sore for much longer after your workouts? That could mean you’ve started taking on more than you should. Small signs like back and shoulder pains, joint pains, muscle pulls and ligament strains are the initial red flags that you should watch out for. While these may seem insignificant at first, they are usually the precursors to a serious   and should never be ignored. 
  
  
 
  It’s not just aches and pains that you should watch out for. If you’ve been coming down with a cold or fever too often, that could be because you’re stressing more than you should at the gym. Body stress causes your immunity levels to go down and your blood pressure can increase due to excess weight lifting. “If you train with weights regularly, it’s advisable get your blood checked every six months. If there’s a problem with the blood work, it could be because of overtraining,” shares Dhruv Chaudhuri, the head coach of a   chain.
  
  
 
  If you are on supplements, you’d do well to remember that just because you feel stronger, it does not mean you actually are. Abhimanyu Sable, the founder of a city fitness chain, cautions that a person taking supplements tends to feel stronger psychologically. And this can drive a person to push way beyond their limits. “Ideally, a normal person does not need supplements. They are only for professional body builders. But if you are taking them, you must have a professional guiding you,” he warns.
  
  
 
  When working out with weights, remember that your first six reps should be easy to perform. When the reps start getting difficult, don’t do more than three. “Do not chase numbers. Never try to pile on more reps when it becomes difficult as those extra reps can result in an injury,” says Aarti Jedhe, partner at a city fitness centre. “Before you begin lifting weights, you need to do a fitness test for your upper and lower body, under professional guidance. Then you start with only 50 to 60 per cent of the total weight that you can pull,” she adds.
  
  
 
  Finally, remember that it’s not how much you can lift, but how well you can lift it. If you are not able to do a full range of motion, in the correct form, with a particular amount of weight, that’s too much weight for you. The pressure of the weights should be held by your muscles and not your joints. If you are having to lock your joints to hold the weight, you are pushing beyond your muscle capacity.
 
 
