AURANGABAD: The state   has issued directives for the preservation of original files of sanction for prosecution until the case against an officer is finalised in the  .

 The home department gets proposals to sanction prosecution under   (prosecution of judges and public servants) and also under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.
 
 “The home department was at the receiving end in court after it was found that it could not locate a copy of sanction for prosecution in a case,” a senior official of the department told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 A decision is taken on these proposals and permission to file chargesheet is either granted or rejected. Once it is granted, the competent officer issues permission. Later, proper care is not taken for the upkeep of the record of these permissions.
 
 The government circular goes on to state that it has been found that whenever such cases come up for hearing before the court of law, the actual copy of the granted sanction-for-prosecution cannot be traced.
 
 The circular further directs that the departments concerned should maintain the record of the original file containing granted sanction for prosecution till the said case does not get finalised in the court of law (JMFC/special court/appellant court/Supreme Court).
 
 A senior IPS officer said that after an offence is registered against a serving policeman, the investigation officer carries out a detailed probe and prepares a chargesheet.
 
 “Before filing the chargesheet in court, an application requesting sanction for prosecution is moved before an appropriate authority, following which the chargesheet is filed,” the officer said.
 
 For policemen up to the rank of sub-inspector, the respective superintendent of police/commissioner of police has the powers to grant sanction for prosecution. For police inspectors and above rank officers, the sanction for prosecution is sought from the home department.
 
 Similar procedure is followed by all the other government departments in the state. 
 
 
