BHUBANESWAR: Janmanjay Dey was jolted out of his seat in the upper berth with a thud. The 62-year-old had barely closed his eyes when his world and that of others travelling in  , turned upside down. The lights were out and in the darkness all he could hear was shrieks from fellow passengers. As his sight adjusted to the blackness he found himself staring at crushed bodies. He was lucky to see the emergency exit and using all his might he kicked it open. 

 "I suddenly noticed the emergency door near me and started kicking it with all possible force. Luckily it opened and I pulled out an old man who was lying under a seat. I also pushed out another person who was bleeding profusely. Many were bleeding and crying out in pain. I shouted at them to come out and jumped on the track to find my wife who was in another bogie," recounted Dey after reaching Bhubaneswar in a special relief train on Sunday night. 
 
 "It seemed like I had returned from the door of death," said Dey, who was in S9, one of the compartments which was badly damaged in the accident. 
 
 Dey and his wife were returning from Bhawanipatna after attending the wedding of his niece. He was not alone to have survived this ordeal. Ninety-year-old Sukant Kumar Pal was travelling with seven members of his family and felt he would never be able to see his home again. 
 
 "I thought I won't be able to reach home. I had never seen tragedy of this scale in my life. A woman was desperately crying out and asking for help to save her daughter who was trapped inside a bogie. Bodies were brought out using gas cutters. Many of the passengers were badly crushed," Pal said. 
 
 Prasant Mohapatra and his family decided to travel by train since he had lost his father in a road accident a couple of years back. "I don't know whether it is my good luck or bad luck. I narrowly escaped for the second time," said Mohapatra, (50). 
 
 Former Union minister Bhajamana Behera, who also had a narrow escape, said: "When we came out from the bogie the scene was really horrific. Local villagers reached before officials to help the injured passengers."
 
 Like Behera, there were many who alleged that the rescue team reached late, resulting in the casualties going up. 
 
 "The rescue team reached around two hours after the accident. The railway people are blaming the accident on sabotage but they did not do their work properly. Why was the pilot vehicle not there? If it was there then how come it failed to detect the gap in the track," said Debi Prasad Mallick, an employee of Odisha Hydro Power Corporation and one of the survivors.
 
