PANAJI: Union minister and BJP in charge of Goa elections   gave a broad hint that defence minister   could be the next chief minister of Goa if BJP MLAs decide so after the ensuing polls. “A leader in Delhi could be made the chief minister of Goa if the party MLAs decide,” Gadkari told reporters on Thursday.

 “Our newly elected MLAs will elect a new leader and it’s not necessary that this leader should be from the MLAs itself. We could send him from the Centre too. But we will do it in a democratic manner,” reiterated Gadkari.
 
 To a specific question if Parrikar had expressed his preference to go back to Goa, Gadkari said, “I am the observer for the elections. The party president and the PM is in direct touch with me and I am making this announcement after discussing with them.”
 
 When asked pointedly if he was saying that Parrikar, who had reluctantly left Goa chief ministership to take up the defence minister’s post would be back in the state, Gadkari said the party does not have a shortage of leaders.
 
 Replying to a question whether Parrikar would move out of the defence ministry, Gadkari said: “How did you understand what I did not want to say. My exact sentence has been understood by the one who has to understand it.”
 
 Gadkari also said Parrikar has not expressed his willingness to move back to Goa, “but we are keeping all options open”.
 
 A source in the BJP indicated that Parrikar is likely to come back to state politics and central leadership is in favour of it. The source also said that the matter has been discussed by national BJP president Amit Shah with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 When contacted over phone, Parrikar refused to comment whether he would give up defence ministry to take up the chief ministership of Goa. Despite moving to Delhi to head the defence ministry, Parrikar has been active on the Goa political scene and with the announcement of elections, has been running the  , even deciding on candidates. 
 
 Goa goes to polls on February 4 to elect its 40-member assembly.
 
 Gadkari also evaded a query over BJP refusing to declare its chief ministerial candidate and said the elections were being contested under the leadership of Parrikar, chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar, Union minister Shripad Naik and state unit president Vinay Tendulkar. 
 
 “If MLAs want, even Parsekar will be made the chief minister. I am not denying any possibility,” he said with Parsekar seated to his right.
 
