MUMBAI: Aamir Khan-starrer biopic ‘Dangal’, story of former wrestler Mahavir Singh Phogat and his daughters — Geeta and Babita — has hit all the right chords with movie buffs, as the film has become India’s biggest box-office success of all times.
 
  Released on December 23 last year by Disney India, ‘Dangal’ has made Rs 345.31crore in net box-office collection as of January 8, surpassing Khan’s previous release PK’s lifetime collection of Rs 340.8 crore.
  
  “I am absolutely overwhelmed with all the love that ‘Dangal’ has got,” Khan told ET. “It is one of the most passionate responses I have ever received. I want to thank everyone for owning the film as their own. It's the biggest compliment a creative person can receive. Thank you from the bottom of my heart.”
  
  ‘Dangal’ had collected Rs 107.01crore in the first weekend and Rs 197.55 during the first week of release. With a good word-of-mouth and in the absence of any other big release, the film continued to do well at the box office. It ended second week with a collection of another Rs 115.96 crore, while in the third weekend, it amassed another Rs 31.8 crore.
  
  Amrita Pandey, VP (studios) at Disney India, said, “Dangal is an extremely special film for us at Disney,   and the entire cast and crew of the film. This is our 9th film with Aamir and with   we’ve broken our own record of  . Dangal epitomises what we aim to achieve through our movies — wholesome family entertainment with such a strong emotional connect and the telling of a story we strongly believe in.”
  
  The film has not just delivered good numbers in the multiplexes, but has done exceptionally well in the single screens also. “We were expecting Dangal to do very well at the box office but this kind of traction is unprecedented. Dangal has not only received great reviews but has indeed worn off any after effects of the recent demonetisation on the Indian film industry,” Ashish Saksena, COO-Cinemas, BookMyShow, said.
  
  The film has also managed to collect Rs 181crore from overseas markets (gross box office). “Dangal is breaking and setting new   circuit benchmarks all over India — in centres in key south markets, in Delhi, UP, Punjab, Rajasthan & Central India. Even in international markets like North America and Australia, Dangal is setting new benchmarks. In fact, in North America, the movie is set to be the highest grossing foreign language movie for 2016! Dangal is also the highest performing Hindi movie dubbed in Tamil, beating the previous record of The Jungle Book,” Pandey added.
