MYSURU: Swachh Sarvekshan 2017 will start on January 4 as the   (QCI) team will first visit   and start their  . This time, Mysuru will compete with 500 cities. The civic body is seeking to retain the top slot for the third time in a row. 

 Deputy commissioner D Randeep held a meeting with Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) officials here on Monday. He said   Mission, one of the top surveys for Cleanest City   by the QCI, will start from Mysuru.
 
 The survey will start in the city from January 4 to 6, and continue across the country up to February 4. We are working for a hat trick top rank, he said.
 
 “This year, the survey is modified and more transparent, and an additional 500 cities with 1 lakh population will join the challenge. We understand the strategy and plan to face the survey, and had submitted the city profile to the QCI. Documentation is very important, and the opinion of civic body officials and council members will boost the city’s marks by 45%,” the DC said. 
 
 He said the city profile comprises 44 locations in 11 categories in four divisions, including markets, temples, public toilets, bus stands and railway stations. Besides, 20,000 phone numbers were also given for a phone-in survey. QCI also introduced a toll-free number, 1969, to take part in the survey, which will last one minute and include six questions with Yes/No answers.
 
 MCC commissioner G Jagadheesha explained the strengths and weaknesses of this survey. “The city has undergone many positive changes since the last survey was conducted. We are sure to get 100% marks in Planning: Strategy for Open Defecation Free town (ODF) and Integrated Solid Waste Management (SWM); Waste Management: Door to Door Collection, Sweeping, Collection and Transportation; Sanitation: Public and Community Toilet Provision and Sanitation: Individual Household Toilets. We will get more marks for declaring Mysuru as an ODF city,” he said.
 
 Jagadheesha said the survey will decide through public opinion. “The pattern has changed this year, and 55% of marks will be decided by citizens. Last year, we topped with 1,749 marks, this year, we hope to get more marks. We have strong competition previous with Chandigarh, and the latest additions Visakhapatnam and Coimbatore, he said.
 
 
