NEW DELHI: Delhi could finally be inching towards a comprehensive   policy. The transport department, which came out with a draft parking policy on Wednesday, has been directed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to consult stakeholders within a month for implementation thereafter, said an official from the LG secretariat.

 The   includes a range of suggestions, from incremental parking rates to doing away with free parking in residential colonies. A senior government official, who attended the meeting held by the LG, said: “The idea is that nothing should be free. The current parking rates are not a deterrent as is obvious from the fact that people park their vehicles for the entire day.” The emphasis, added the official, is on “location-specific solutions”.
 
 To discourage such use of public space, the draft policy has recommended identification of roads and streets based on density, width and connectivity. While parking on the footpath will be “strictly prohibited”, roads and commercial streets will be categorised as ‘no parking zones’ in consultation with the traffic police and local bodies.
 
 “The measures will be categorised into short, medium and long term   for strict implementation,” said a statement from the LG office. The official said, “Rates will be incremental, and short stay parking will be encouraged.”
 
 Those looking to park their vehicles for the entire day (read shopkeepers) will be encouraged to park at multi-level parking lots through deferential parking rates that will reflect the area and density of the road.
 
 “Parking in residential areas will also be discouraged. If people are willing to spend so much on a vehicle, parking for it cannot be free,” added the official. 
 
 The draft also makes it clear that adequate authorised parking is required, along with enforcement. “Municipal corporations and other agencies should strictly monitor contracts of parking lots,” said the LG office statement. The draft also suggested continuous patrolling of roads and more use of technology for issuing challans.
 
 The Delhi Metro, meanwhile, has been asked to provide parking slots for para-transit vehicles and underground parking for public convenience and last mile connectivity, in the draft policy. Also, free parking for non-motorised vehicles is to be emphasised.
 
 The draft parking policy comes in the wake of the LG setting up a task force to tackle the issue of “implementable” parking in the city in Janaury this year. Those attending the meeting included transport minister Satyender Jain, as well as senior officials like the chief secretary, transport commissioner, secretary PWD, heads of organisations like DJB, DTC, DMRC, NDMC as well as the traffic police and commissioners of the civic bodies.
 
 Meanwhile, Baijal chaired a separate meeting on road cutting on Wednesday, a perennial problem for Delhi roads which are dig up with increasing frequency and hardly ever repaired, or repaired properly. He directed that all agencies which have underground services should ensure that no damage is done to facilities of other agencies when they are carrying out work beneath the ground. Road cutting schedules should be made public while a standard operating procedure for online permissions and road restoration should be put in place.
 
  Sources further added that in case a project is not completed in time, contractors should be charged for the additional time taken and that strict monitoring before of roads before and after digging of roads is a must. 
 
