LUCKNOW: Lucknow   might run at a speed of 80kmph though it might still take a month to begin its commercial operation. 

 The   (UTHS) directorate of the RDSO would issue the  , fixing the speed at which the train would run.   has missed its March 26 deadline. While the delay in issue of a safety clearance certificate by Railways is being cited as one the reasons,   (RDSO) said it did trials in record time for Lucknow Metro. 
 
 The final report for the emergency brake trial might be submitted to UTHS directorate on Friday while the final report on oscillation trial has already been submitted. The directorate would now issue a speed certificate. Lucknow Metro trial started at RDSO on February 22. “Trials were conducted without lunch breaks. Loading and unloading of the rake was planned in the night. Draft report was prepared parallely and Sundays were used for analysis,” said director, testing, RDSO, Prashant Kumar Singh.
 
 Prior to this, it was Chennai Metro which was issued a speed certificate within one and a half month of the trials. Lucknow Metro might be issued a speed certificate before that. It migh take at least a month before the CMRS (commissioner metro rail safety) issues a safety clearance for commercial operation of the Metro. 
 
 As per the procedure, LMRC has to first seek approval from Railway board for its bridges, signalling and civil works. The testing of rolling stock is taken up next. “Once the speed certificate is issued by RDSO to LMRC, the corporation would approach the Railway board and get approval for its rolling stock as well,” said a source.
 
 After the green signal by the Railway board, LMRC would need CMRS permission for commercial operation of the Metro. 
 
 RDSO has successfully conducted two trials on Metro. Oscillation trials at 90kmph to ensure that train does not oscillate (move back and forth) while moving and emergency brake trial at 80kmph to find out the distance at which the train stopped when emergency brake was applied. Emergency brake trial was done under 16 conditions and the train stopped at 200 to 250 metre when brakes were applied under different conditions. 
 
 
