RANCHI: Two MLAs in the 81-member   upheld the   while casting votes for electing the President here on Monday.   and   of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) kept both the NDA and the UPA camps guessing as they did not queue up with either of them. 

 C P Singh, authorised representative of NDA's presidential candidate Ramnath Kovind, said the alliance has the support of more than 50 MLAs whereas the opposition camp expressed happiness over keeping the entire non-BJP team intact. "We have kept all the non-NDA parties intact and fought the election on ideology," said JPCC president Congress legislator Sukhdeo Bhagat. 
 
 Bhagat said 30 MLAs, including 19 of JMM, seven of Congress, two of JVM (P) and one each of CPI (ML-Liberation) and Marxist Coordination Committee voted for Meira Kumar.
 
 Beginning with speaker Dinesh Oraon, Kovind supporters cast their votes as soon as the polling began at 10am. Apart from 43 BJP MLAs, four lawmakers from Ajsu Party, Geeta Koda of Jai Bharat Samantha Party and Bhanu Pratap Sahi of Nav Jawan Sangharsha Morcha arrived together whereas the UPA camp, led by leader of the opposition Hemant Soren, cast their votes after that.
 
 Of the 81 MLAs, five were languishing in jail but came to the house cast their votes. Enos Ekka came from the jail hospital, where he is undergoing treatment, on a wheelchair and had to be assisted to the polling booth. Nirmala Devi of the Congress left Hazaribag jail at around 8am and was the last to cast her vote.
 
 BJP MLA Sanjeev Singh and Jharkhand Vikas Morcha (Prajatantrik) MLA Pradeep Yadav were stopped briefly by the election observer from casting their vote as they demanded a copy of the permission from the court. "It was only after permission was granted to them by the court that they arrived here under police security. So there was no need to produce papers before the election observers," said C P Singh.
 
 Apart from Ekka, JMM's Simon Marandi, who was recently elected to the assembly in the Littipara by-election, came from a hospital. Marandi is undergoing treatment at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi, but he came to participate in the voting.
 
 Assistant returning officer Ranjit Kumar said that the ballot boxes were sealed at 5pm and placed in the strong room. "The boxes will be taken out on Tuesday and taken to New Delhi for counting by an Air India flight," he said.
 
 Chief minister Raghubar Das later said the Kovind's victory is "200% cent sure" and a common man will occupy the highest post in the country.
 
 Das said: "The victory of Ramnath Kovind is beyond any doubt now as he is certain to get more votes than expected. 
 
 The elevation of a common man to the highest post is not only an honour for the country but for democracy as well. Under BJP rule, it has been established that a common man can become prime minister and president of the country."
 
 
