When the first look of the   movie ‘Udaharanam Sujatha’ was out,   was stunned. Never before has its leading lady looked so deglam, except for probably in the Mohanlal movie ‘Kanmadam,’ that was released decades ago. ‘Udaharanam Sujatha’ is Manju’s Vijayadashami release and if you are one of those people thinking about checking it out, here are five reasons for you to give it a chance.

 
 
 The film’s protagonist Sujatha is from Chenkalchoola colony in Trivandrum, and she makes ends meet by doing a number of odd jobs across the city. In the recently released trailer and teaser of the film, Manju is shown in a number of avatars, from a domestic help to pickle factor worker. Sujatha works from dawn to dusk for a livelihood, but is still a chilled out soul, who lives for her daughter. What more do you want for a dose of inspiration this week? 
 
 
 
 When Manju Warrier played a feisty, deglam young lady in the 1998 film ‘Kanmadam,’ it gained cult status. Not only was the film and her role critically acclaimed, many actors even went on the look up to it as their dream role in the industry. If the pre-release hints are anything to go by, Sujatha too offers enough to propel both the film and the character to a similar status. Moreover, it would be a change for those who aren’t too fond of Manju’s new age roles and yearns to see her in one of her yesteryear, nostalgic avatars! 
 
 
 
 Two songs from the film are already out – Kasavu Njoriyumoru Pulari by Gayathri Varma and written by D Santhosh and Nee Njangade sung by ‘Action Hero Biju’ fame Aristo Suresh, penned by Santhosh Varma. Gopi Sunder’s soulful music for them has already won the hearts of Mollywood. Their videos too were hits, especially of the Aristo Suresh song in which the actor-singer also is part of the video. 
 
 
 
 While Manju Warrier plays a lower-middle class woman in the film, Mamtha Mohandas appears as a collector, whom Sujatha meets by chance. A moment from their scene together was also part of the film’s trailer and going by the social media response, the actress’ fans loved them. It’s also the first film in which both the actors will share screen in  . 
 
 
 
 The film is the Malayalam remake of   starrer ‘Amma Kanakku,’ which was praised for its content and screenplay. It was, again, remade from the Hindi film ‘Nil Battey Sannata.’ The films highlighted the importance of education, hard work and the need to understand our parents’ struggles. 
 
 
 
 
