NEW DELHI: The government has decided to sell some of Air India’s real estate directly to expedite the state-owned carrier’s divestment. This follows the discovery that some of the assets are not owned by the carrier but on a 99-year lease from the government.
 
  “Properties where the government has the ownership will go back to the government, which will sell it on behalf of Air India,” said a senior aviation ministry official who did not want to be named.   officials confirmed that two such properties in Delhi owned by the urban development ministry have already been identified.
  
  “One is the 4-acre land at Baba Kharak Singh Marg near Connaught Place and the other is the residential colony in Vasant Vihar. These properties are on 99-year lease to Air India and the money earned through the sale of these assets would be used to clear debt,” said an Air India official requesting anonymity.
  
  The plan for the Vasant Vihar residential colony is to hand it over to NBCC Ltd, which will redevelop it. The plan for the land near Connaught Place has not been decided yet. According to the turnaround plan approved by the Manmohan Singh government in 2012, Air India was to monetise its assets across the world and was estimated to earn about Rs 5,000 crore that would be used to repay debt.
  
  
 
  The national carrier generated just about Rs 1,000 crore due to various reasons, including the issue of ownership. Of Air India’s Rs 52,000-crore debt, about Rs 33,000 crore is on account of working capital loans. Its annual interest outgo of Rs 4,500 crore is about 21% of turnover.
  
  Among other options being explored on restructuring  , the government is considering the sale of subsidiaries separately and using that money to retire some of it.
  
  These options are being considered by the committee led by finance minister Arun Jaitley that will decide on the model to be followed for the carrier’s divestment. Potential investors have shown interest in buying stakes in Air India as well as its subsidiaries.
  
  While IndiGo has said it may be interested in the international business, there have been reports that some private equity investors have been eyeing a possible stake-sale process.
  
  
  
  
  The Tata Group, which has stakes in   and  , has also been mentioned as a possible suitor. Bird Group and Celebi – both of which are involved in ground handling — have shown interest in that part of Air India’s business.
  
  Meanwhile, the government has also sought requests for proposals for the engagement of advisers for strategic disinvestment in Air India and its subsidiaries. One of the tasks of the adviser is conducting road shows in India and abroad.
