GURUGRAM: After aggrieved residents,   have now approached the state government, pointing out infrastructure gaps in the new sectors of Gurgaon. In a letter to the chief minister, the   have listed out issues related to water supply, electricity infrastructure and roads in the developing sectors.

 According to them, the lack of adequate infrastructure in these new sectors has become a cause for daily trouble for not just residents but also developers. “There are several infrastructural issues in the new sectors such as water supply, power supply and roads,” said  , chairman of   ( ), and owner of Tulip Infrastructure.
 
 The major issues listed out by the developers also include pending licences of affordable group housing schemes, rationalisation of external development charges in urban estates, acquisition of land for 24-metre roads and encroachments on Huda land.
 
 “The biggest problem is in the new sectors, where the basic infrastructure is lacking. There is an urgent need to improve the speed of external development works in these areas,” said one of the city-based developers, who did not wish to be named.
 
 The news sectors in Gurgaon from 57 to 118 have been constantly hogging media limelight for infrastructure-related issues. Most of these societies in these sectors are running on diesel generator sets and water sourced from tankers. The internal roads in the new sectors have been orphaned as the responsibility of building is constantly passed on from one party to another.
 
 Currently the land for affordable housing sector in Gurgaon is capped at 300 acres and the industry has been rooting for increasing it to 500 acres if not taking away the limit totally. “If the government wants to realise the Prime Minister's dream of housing for all, the developer must take off the restrictions on land allotted for the affordable housing sector,” said Jain.
 
 “The industry is going through a transformation phase with the GST and RERA setting in. At the same time, we would like to bring to the state government’s notice the various infra requirements in the state, especially Gurgaon. We would appreciate if the government addresses the infra gaps and also try and involve the industry in policy making for better co-ordination between the government and the industry,” said Prithvi Nath, director general of NAREDCO, Haryana.
 
