Hyderabad: Telangana has earned the distinction of becoming the first state in the country to begin certifying its workforce in the pharma and life sciences sector through the Telangana Academy of Skills and Knowledge ( ) under the ‘Recognition of Prior Learning’ (RPL) programme.

 RPL was launched by the ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship (MSDE) under its Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY). Under RPL, individuals with prior learning experience or skills can be assessed and certified.
 
 RPL aims to align the competencies of the unregulated workforce with the National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF), which is a competency-based framework that organizes all qualifications according to a series of levels of knowledge, skills and aptitude. These levels, graded from one to 10, are defined in terms of learning outcomes, which the learner must possess regardless of whether they are obtained through formal or informal learning.
 
 Explaining the relevance of the RPL programme, TASK chief executive officer (CEO) Sujiv Nair said there are several people who drop out of school or stop their education midway to join factories near their homes to earn a livelihood. While over the years, these people would have mastered a certain process in the factory, there is no way they can show it in their resume. What RPL does is to assess these skills and provide them a certificate that they can use to advance their careers. “TASK had conducted a pilot in December last year with five companies – Covalent Lab, Dr Reddy’s, Unique Biotech, Granules and Optimus – where 91 employees were assessed for the job role of quality control chemist and 76 passed. Following the success of this pilot, we decided to reach out to small and mid-sized players as they can benefit a lot from this programme,” Nair explained.
 
 In June, TASK assessed 72 employees for the job role of machine operator from Biological E, Inogent and Optimus, of which 65 passed the test and were certified. Similarly, TASK also conducted assessment for 55 employees belonging to Biological E and Inogent for the role of ‘manufacturing assistant’ and 52 passed. Nair pointed out that the basic idea of RPL is to ‘certify’ skills and anybody, irrespective of their education qualifications, can apply to take this test.
 
 While TASK has been reaching out to pharma and life sciences companies in the state, it also has an official from the life sciences sector skill council at the TASK office to actively coordinate with stakeholders here.
 
 
