KOCHI: The Kerala state pollution control board (KSPCB) has issued notices to close down three industrial units in the Edayar industrial area citing failure to operate effluent treatment plants. The board has asked to close down Essar Enterprises, Ramanand   and TMV Natural Oils and Extracts Pvt Ltd on Tuesday. 

 After issuing closure notices the board formally informed Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) officials to snap power supply to these units and intimated Kadungalloor panchayat.
 
 Issuing the order, environmental engineer M P Trideep Kumar said the   has directed the pollution control board to ensure that industrial, commercial and residential units had installed a functional primary effluent treatment plant by May 22.
 
 In its order the Supreme Court had said, "industrial units, which have not been able to make their primary effluent treatment plant fully operational, within the notice period, shall be restrained from any further industrial activity. This direction may be implemented by requiring the concerned electricity supply and distribution agency, to disconnect the electricity connection of the defaulting industry."
 
 Earlier, environmentalists organized public protests alleging discharge of untreated effluents into Periyar River, which is a major source of drinking water. Instances of discolouration of the river and fish kill were also reported from various places.
 
 Following the court order, KSPCB inspected 11 industrial units functioning in Edayar and Eloor region. It was found that the effluent treatment plants were operational at   (petrochemical division), FACT (Udyogmandal division), Travancore-Cochin Chemicals Ltd (TCC), Indian Rare Earths Ltd (IRE), Cochin Minerals and Rutile Ltd, Arjuna Aromatics and TMS Leather.
 
 KSPCB officials said as they were acting as per Supreme Court order there was no requirement to issue a show cause notices or wait for explanations. "In case KSPCB receives public complaints regarding discharge of untreated effluents we can take action against the units. If complaints are raised against the units which have currently passed the inspection the pollution board is bound to revisit the site and take appropriate action including closing down of these units," said Trideep Kumar.
 
 He said the pollution control board would go ahead with the inspections in the coming days.
 
 Inspections are being carried out on a priority basis, and they intended to complete checking of large industrial units within the next three or four days. After that they will take up inspection of hotels, hospitals and apartment complexes.
 
