CHENNAI: The largest political party in Tamil Nadu, founded by matinee idol M G Ramachandran and led for two-and-a-half decades by 
  , is headed for a split.

 With 
  in the disproportionate   on Tuesday, V K   chose PWD and highways minister 
  to take on rebel leader and 
  . But, the crisis within the   is likely to deepen with the two factions gearing up to prove their strength on the floor of the house.
 
 
 
 
 Post-Jayalalithaa, 
  until her decision to take over the administration triggered a revolt. The mild-mannered and seemingly submissive OPS has rather dramatically changed the political course of the AIADMK. 
 
 Jayalalithaa’s demise was the first big blow to the party that weathered many storms under the charismatic leader. Her ability to pull the crowds and to keep her party on a tight leash saw the AIADMK ruling the state for three terms since 1991.
 
 With Sasikala out of the picture, new leaders are emerging on the Dravidian canvas, to steer the future of the AIADMK that could change DMK’s fortunes. The prospects of the two parties are dependent on who is likely to win the floor test and take over the administrative reins. While a hung assembly is on the cards and the possibility of fresh polls looming, the 
  from a badly fractured AIADMK.
 
 “It is unfair to write off the party,” said former minister and Sasikala supporter B Valarmathi. “An illusion is being created that the AIADMK will disintegrate because of Chinnamma’s conviction. Even after the Bofors scandal, didn’t we have Congress ruling the country? Doesn’t Lalu Prasad Yadav remain a key player in politics in Bihar? What about Dayanidhi and Kalanidhi Maran?” Stating that party leaders were anguished by the Supreme Court verdict against Sasikala, Valarmathi expressed confidence that the party would bounce back under the new leadership.
 
 Party leaders point out that the turbulent political scene in Tamil Nadu today was reminiscent of the post-MGR period when AIADMK split 15 years after it was founded in 1972. After the merger of the two factions and an election debacle in 1989, the party under Jayalalithaa swept the 1991 assembly election to establish itself as a serious political contender in the state.
 
 “The situation is in a flux,” said MGR biographer R Kannan. OPS, he said, represented the AIADMK cadre’s built up anger, bitterness and disillusionment with Sasikala; as well as the popular discontent with the lack of governance so far. “His glory was a reflected one - from Sasikala - like that of the mythical Vaali who could take half his strength from his opponent. Now that Sasikala is no more a player it is unclear if OPS would be able to sustain his sudden popularity and image.”
 
 “It remains unclear who would inherit the Jayalalithaa legacy, OPS or the Edappadi faction. But, votes are likely to be split like in 1989 in an election. For reasons of stability the DMK is likely to be preferred,” said Kannan.
 
 The AIADMK may not survive the crisis, but in the long run, politics in Tamil Nadu after Jayalalithaa and DMK chief M Karunanidhi, who is ailing, is likely to take interesting twists and turns.
 
 
