They go back nearly two decades, and, in fact, it was actor   who suggested that director   make his novel,  , into a film, which is all set to release this week. Shankar has been in the industry for 20 years, but he feels that this is his first film. He tells us about this and more…

 
 
 The story is set in the 80s, when writing novels and short stories for magazines was popular. My character,  , wants to be a writer, but his father discourages him and asks him to get a regular job instead. He leaves home after a fight with his father and works at a hotel, where he meets Shruthi’s character, through who he realizes what a mother goes through when her son leaves home. He then goes back to his house, but it is too late as he loses his mother. That is when he writes this novel — Marali Mannige.
 
 
 
 I’m a theatre artiste — I am born, brought up and raised as an artiste under the able shadow of (director) Yogesh Master. In fact, I have known him from the time when he was penning this very story, and was even involved in the play when it was being enacted. Once, I mentioned to Yogesh Master that his story would make for a good movie. When we decided to film it, we developed certain aspects; for e.g., Vishwa doesn’t exist in the play, but he does in the novel. We then started working on the screenplay together. I am the co-writer, co-director and take care of marketing, apart from other things — you tend to be heavily involved when you do it for family.
 
 
 
 Marali Mannige is my fourth movie. After doing three films, I stopped acting. I wanted to get to the nerve of filmmaking to understand all the aspects, as an artiste and technician. In theatre, we do every job — from picking up chairs, putting on curtains, makeup and being a king on stage. But this is not the case with films. I worked for four years behind the scenes, writing screenplays, etc., and got to know all that I had missed out on. So, I would like to call this my first film, since I have done it after having become literate in films.
 
 
 
 A lot of people have been asking me if this is an art film or a commercial film. It is neither, since there are no slow moving shots or anything illogical in it. I call Marali Mannige a realistic film as no one has acted in the entire film — everyone has tried to be the character, which is something that Yogesh Master was very particular about.
 
 
 
 Yogesh Master and I go back a long way, and since we have done several plays together, I can understand his every sigh and wink. In fact, I used to explain his requirements to the technicians because that’s how well I understand him. He is my master and I am his de facto. I am very comfortable working with him.
 
