PATNA: As the final exam results are being declared in city schools, kids are having precious few days when they don’t have to study and there is no fixed schedule.
 
  Children are utilizing this time in adventurous activities, hobbies, watching movies, visiting relatives and by travelling to new places. Many of them, who topped in their class or done well in exams, are demanding gifts like cellphones, bicycle, virtual games, sports equipment and other stuff from their parents.
  
  For party-animals like Meenaskshi Pandey, this time of the year is all about eating delicious food, having pyjama parties and watching newly released movies.
  
  A Class VIII student of St Michael’s High School, Meenakshi, loves to throw parties at her home and hangout with her friends at restaurants. “As I have lot of time in my hand, my friend circle decided to organise sleepover on alternate days. We all are foodies, so we are also planning to learn culinary,” she said.
  
  A Class II student, Shipra Singh of Mount Carmel High School, requested her parents for Barbie doll set as she achieved good marks in her final year exam.
  
  The pressure of studies often pushes kid’s hobbies to the backseats. It’s the time when kids can give wings to their passion, be it photography, painting, culinary, composing songs and poems, writing stories, gardening and mastering martial arts.
  
  “I have been writing poems since my childhood, but of late I do not get time because of my studies. Now, I am looking forward for the inspiration to write and compose the poem. It gives me immense pleasure to write poem and sketch accordingly,” said Deepshika Agarwal, a Class VII student of  .
  
  Aashish Kumar, a Class VIII student of The Tribhuvan School, said after the exams, sports activities, especially cricket, is like a breath of fresh air. “Sports activities act as a huge stress buster. For this week, we are planning to visit ruins of   and want to learn more about that place,” added Kumar.
  
  Gaming and fun zone at city malls and adventurous games at Eco Park was a big draw for young kids. Shashank Gupta, a Class VII student of Loyola High School, has developed passion for bowling. “Part of the satisfaction with bowling is knocking over things with a lot of satisfying noises. It’s a thrill and it is more fun for me when I play with my friends,” he said.
  
  Skating, rock climbing, ropeways, zip lining, double cycling and scramble net, kids have so many choices for fun adventure at Eco Park.
  
  Parth, a Class V student of St Karen’s Secondary School, is having a gala time after the exams are over. “I am learning to skate and it gives a feeling of freedom. I have tried my hands on rock climbing and net scramble. I want to try zip lining too, but I am also scared,” said the boy excitedly.
