CHANDIGARH: State president of   (PUSU)   on Saturday resigned from his post. The move was followed by his joining the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). 

 According to Godara, he would campaign for the AAP with PUSU supporters associated with him. "We have presence in various colleges of Punjab and I will extend our support to the AAP through PUSU supporters in these colleges," said Godara. 
 
 Earlier, a delegation of PUSU and   ( ) members had met Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on January 5. During the meeting, the student leaders had told Kejriwal how they had defeated the student wings of various political parties this year in the council elections. Moreover, Kejriwal had also assured the students that if the party came into power in Punjab, they would provide ample job opportunities to the students. 
 
 Making PUSU's stand clear on the issue, student body president Navaldeep Singh said that it won't support any political party. "It is an individual's decision and we have to respect that. But the student party will continue to remain a student party and will have no political affiliation," he added. The student leaders are of the view that the AAP has emerged as an alternative for the student leaders of   who want to graduate from student leadership to mainstream politics in the state. On joining the AAP, Godara said, "The SAD and Congress had been our arch-rivals in the student politics on campus. So, there was no point to join these parties."
 
 It has been a trend that student leaders from Panjab University work to join mainstream politics. This year Dalvir Singh Goldy, who became PUCSC president in 2006, has got Congress ticket from Dhuri to fight upcoming assembly polls while Daman Bajwa, who became NSUI Punjab president in 2013, has got party ticket from Sunam.
 
 Godara was booked for attempt to murder in 2016
 
 An FIR was registered for attempt to murder and under the Arms Act against some PUSU members, including Resham Singh Godara, after a firing incident at Panjab University on April 8, 2016. Godara, the prime suspect, had alleged that he too had received sharp injuries on his neck. Students Organization of India (SOI) chief Manpreet Singh Aulakh was struck by a bullet on right thigh during a clash between SOI and PUSU members on April 8, 2016. 
 
