PATNA: Despite delay in evaluation of matriculation and Intermediate answer books because of the ongoing agitation by unaided school and college teachers as well as those on contract,   (BSEB) chairman   said on Wednesday the results, as usual, would be published in May.

 Addressing a press conference, Kishor said the evaluation process has gained momentum after the board roped in teachers from the   and Navodaya Vidyalayas. “Almost 90% evaluation work has been completed at a few examination centres in Patna while at least 50-60% answer books of intermediated examination have been evaluated at most of the centres. The evaluation work is also gaining pace in other districts and the district magistrates ensured peaceful evaluation of answer books,” he said.
 
 The evaluation work has been hampered as teachers of unaided schools and colleges and contractual teachers went on protest on March 17 and April 1, respectively. Their demands include equal pay for equal work, among others.
 
 Kishor said the evaluation of intermediate as well as matriculation answer books would conclude by April-end. “The copy evaluators have given protection from agitating teachers and strict action would be taken against those who try to sabotage the evaluation process. FIRs would be lodged against the teachers who are forcefully stopping others from evaluation duty. The board has also requested the protesting teachers not to play with the future of students,” Kishor said.
 
 He even asked the evaluators to devote extra time on evaluation to complete the process in time. He also said some of the protesters were back on duty.
 
 Meanwhile, the board on Wednesday cancelled the affiliation of 51 more Intermediate colleges and schools, including 15 in Vaishali, 11 in Bhojpur, 10 in Saran, 6 in Gaya, 5 in Samastipur, 2 in Champaran and one each in Bhojpur and   districts. The affiliation of two   colleges was also suspended. As its attempt to revamp the education system in the wake of the topper and BSEB affiliation scams, the board has till date cancelled the recognition of 202 Inter colleges. Four colleges have been given time to improve and one is still under investigation.
 
 Ever since the topper scam unfolded last year after Inter Arts topper Ruby Rai pronounced political science as prodigal science and called it a subject associated with cookery, BSEB has been carrying out inspection of all Inter colleges and schools that were granted affiliation during the tenure of Lalkeshwar Prasad Singh, the then BSEB chairman.
 
