KOLKATA: In its first summons in the  , Enforcement Directorate asked   to appear before it at its   in Kolkata. The ED is trying to ascertain how money had been laundered during the Narada sting operation. The   has already been quizzed by the CBI.

 Samuel received a notice from the ED at his New Delhi residence asking him to appear before it on May 18. The agency , which registered a case in the Narada sting operation case last month, feels that Samuel's statement will form the basis of its probe under the   (PMLA).
 
 "I have received a summons, but it is not possible for me to travel to Kolkata now due to my health condition. I have responded to them accordingly,“ Samuel said on Thursday . Earlier on April 20 Samuel, who was summoned by the Muchipara police station in con nection to another case, told Kolkata Police that he needed six weeks' time to recover from the illness. “I have another surgery due on Monday. So it is difficult for me to leave Kochi at this juncture," he added.
 
 According to ED officials, Samuel's statement is now the key to get to the bottom of the case in which money laundering charges have been slapped on 12 Trinamool Congress leaders.While the CBI has slapped them with charges under sections 7 and 13 (2), 13 (1) (a) and 13 (1) (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, Enforcement Directorate is probing the case under the scheduled offences of Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The interrogation of Samuel, ED officials said, will revolve around finding out why he paid the money to 12 TMC leaders and an IPS officer. In his affidavit filed with the Calcutta high court, Samuel had earlier said that around Rs 80 lakh was spent during the operation. He had also said that after the meetings with the leaders or bureaucrats were fixed, he would ask the Alchemist group to arrange the amount to be paid to them. Samuel, who posed as a businessman, Santosh Sankaran, and lobbied for a fictitious company, Impex Consultancy, allegedly handed over money to the accused in exchange of gratifications in future.
 
 ED officials, who have already got the footage from the CBI, are focusing on some of the key portions of the 57 hours of unedited rush. In one footage, Samuel was seen handing over Rs 5 lakh and told the recipient that his company was looking for work related to highway and  .In another, an MLA advised Samuel to support two TMC MPs during the 2014 Lok Sabha election. He had assured Samuel that his company would get help in doing business in the constituencies of the two MPs. “That leads to the next part of the investigation about where he got the money from. The money trail will follow from source to end use by the beneficiary,“ said an ED official.
 
