After filming a song in which his look is fashioned after his dad's debut turn, the actor will head to  , where Shroff Sr earned the 'dada' moniker. On Thursday morning,   and his ' ' leading lady,  , were dancing to a flirty number, 'Dhing Dhang', on top of a bus at Mumbai's Film City studio. Nidhhi was dressed in a pair of tiny shorts and a skimpy tank top while Tiger sported a blue vest and a bandana, looking very much like his dad, Jackie, who was a style icon in the '90s. The young actor admits that this song in Viki Rajani's musical is his tribute to dad.
 
  
 'I'm glad Ganesh master (choreographer  ) is here on set and I just have to mimic his moves. The song is a tribute to my father ( ), there is no better way I could have done it than as his Munna,' smiles Tiger, who will soon start shooting in the Teen Batti chawl where Jackie grew up. Recalling his visit to the locality as a child, Tiger reveals that Jackie still owns his childhood home.
 
 'I was amazed at where my father started his life and where he has reached today. He continued to live there even after the success of his first film, Hero, which is touching. He was the designated dada of Teen Batti and would get into a lot of fights with his friends but also helped them in crisis. It was a rowdy basti and it made him tough,' says Tiger.
 
 He admits his upbringing was the exact opposite as his father sheltered him from life's storms since he was born, giving him a beautiful childhood. 'That's why for this character I'm trying to live his life. Dad is my buddy, my first hero, he's the reason I'm here,' he confides.
 
 Surprisingly, Tiger is not looking forward to sharing screen space with Jackie. 'Not unless I'm the main lead and he has a five-minute cameo, else given dad's strong personality, no one will look at me. I'll freeze in front of him too,' Tiger laughs.
 
 The Munna Michael set has become like a second home for the actor with sister Krishna as one of the assistant directors. She is Tiger's biggest critic, blunt and honest, and a true professional at work who doesn't get special treatment. Tiger gets emotional when he flashbacks to his sister's first day on the set. 'She saw me perform my introduction song and was blown away as she had never seen me dancing live. She returned home to rave about me to mom and dad. I felt so nice hearing that,' he says misty-eyed.
 
 Meanwhile, a lot is being written about him and 'good friend' Disha Patani but Tiger is far from amused. 'I understand the media is curious, it's their job, and I don't mind answering questions about her. If I'd been a reporter, I too would have asked the same questions again and again. As long as I'm truthful to myself, it's okay for people to talk. All I can say is that I'm completely focussed on my work right now, you have to be to sustain in the industry given the fantastic competition around. Right now, I'm married to my job and it's impossible to give time to a relationship. When I'm a part of this industry, I can't multitask,' he says firmly, adding that all his films have been physically challenging because people see him as a superhero, an action hero and a dancing hero. 'Each of these heroes require hours of hard work and rehearsals so where's the time for a real life heroine.'
 
  
  
 
