THIRUTHURAIPOODI: There were no signs of sorrow or bitterness in this small town in   district known as the   of   after she was   by the   in the  . Many people did express a “sense of relief and freedom for the state from the clutches of Mannargudi family” but there were no celebrations either. 

 Born and brought up in   and Mannargudi till her marriage to M Natarajan, Sasikala had failed to find a place in the hearts of her own people. This despite becoming a prominent figure in state politics thanks to her association with late chief minister J Jayalalithaa. 
 
 “None of the people in Thiruthuraipoondi took the judgment against Sasikala as a bitter one and indulged in any disruptive activity. It could be the first time that there was no reaction at all from the native place of a prominent political ‘leader’ to a judgment of such scale,” said PM Lenin in Thiruthuraipoondi. 
 
 In fact, a similar silence had prevailed when the video cassette seller-turned-political leader anointed herself as the legislative party leader of AIADMK last week. Though her party functionaries ‘accepted’ her as the general secretary and later legislative party leader, people of her native place had mostly rejected her move to become the chief minister. 
 
 “A person should be qualified enough to become the chief minister of a state. We don’t find any great quality in her to adorn that position though she had exposure to public life. Except for a negligible number of people connected to her family, the rest are happy with the judgment,” said VV Senthilkumar, an advocate here. 
 
 Even after Sasikala and her family members shifted to Chennai several years ago, people in Thiruthuraipoondi and Mannargudi had constant fear of ‘atrocities’ being perpetrated by some people close to her. This had created a bad image about them in the minds of the people. 
 
 “She should have experience in politics at least for a few years to become the chief minister. Now, her unacceptable dream has been shattered by the judgment which sends a strong message to corrupt netas,” said K Ilayaraja. 
 
 This is not to say that Sasikala was totally friendless. However, they chose to remain quiet rather than express their sentiments against the judgment. Her two school friends who had earlier expressed happiness at her move to become the chief minister were unavailable for comment on the judgment. 
 
 Unlike other places in the state where the supporters of O Panneerselvam and J Deepa celebrated the judgment, Thiruthuraipoondi and Mannarkudi did not even witness such celebrations. “Even though people don’t like Sasikala, they won’t be involved in such celebrations in her home town,” said U Ramachandran.
 
 
