BHOPAL: “Want divorce! Ok stop arguing. Go and watch Hindi movie ‘Raees’. Spend some time together and come back again.” This was the prescription given by an additional judge in the Family Court here to a couple seeking divorce at a hearing on Saturday.

 This was not an isolated case, but one of the several marital discord cases that came up for hearing at the National Lok Adalat in which additional judge   asked the warring couples seeking divorce and maintenance, when did the last time they went on a date to movie was?
 
 “This helps me to bring stressed out couple at ease so that they can think about going back to each other once again and move towards starting a new life,” said Bharadwaj while talking to TOI. Movies are one of the best ways to de-stress and spending time at a movie does help calm frayed tempers in some cases, the judge observed.
 
 The idea is to not let a family be disturbed and help them to understand and address each other’s concerns and a make a new beginning, he said.
 
 In the case of Nikesh Sahu, 27, and  , 26, from  , who were recently married, Bharadwaj and other jury members   and   made the couple agree to live together, on the condition that every morning Nikesh would ask Puja, if was she alright, share her problems and take her for outings like a movie. During the hearing he suggested that they should go and watch Raees after signing the compromise orders in court. In their previous hearings too he has asked the couple to go and watch a movie, so that they can talk and iron out their differences in absence of family members.
 
 Another case of a couple for the custody of child and maintenance was resolved, after Bharadwaj proposed movie date three days ago. They tried the suggestion and watched Hindi film “Kabil”. Today they returned as a happy family, from Bhopal family court for the better future for their child.
 
 In National Lok Adalat on Saturday, 27 of the 70 cases scheduled were solved.
 
 Cases Status At National Lok Adalat
 
 Category of case
 
 Matters resolved 
 
 Amount give to party after compromise
 
 Motor accidents 
 
 649
 
 Rs 6.22 crore 
 
 NI Act
 
 139
 
 Rs 3.77 crore
 
 Power theft
 
 467
 
 Rs 74 lakh
 
 Pre litigation cases 
 
 166
 
 Rs 1.76 crore
 
 
