NEW DELHI: When it comes to political messaging, parks seem to be a lot more visually appealing statements of development than parking lots. Why else then councillors invest their capital, both political and financial, to spruce up these recreational spaces? 

 But just outside these islands of happiness lie pictures of neglect. At many colony parks, things are good to great inside, but bad to pathetic outside. Pavements are all occupied by cars, while pedestrians and moving vehicles have to jostle for space on pockmarked roads. Walking on such roads isn’t just a traffic hazard, it’s also a health hazard. 
 
 Sunil Kapoor goes for a walk to the central park in Greater Kailash 2 every morning. The 75-year-old, whose children live in the US, said it’s painful to walk on the broken road. The park itself has an open gym, and Kapoor and his friends use it. But they all feel the local councillor has done precious little to sort out the parking and sanitation mess. 
 
 The story is similar in CR Park, GK 1, Defence Colony, Amar Colony, Lajpat Nagar, Model Town, Rajouri Garden, almost everywhere. For years, municipal councillors have canvassed for votes by showing parks in their report cards. When asked tough questions, they show the visible proof of their work in the parks. 
 
 Many would argue that it’s an easy way out as sorting out parking woes is a more concrete parameter of development and, therefore, needs stronger imagination. What is the job of a councillor after all if not improving civic infrastructure? But better parks and open gyms seem to be the bigger selling points of most councillors. 
 
 If you take the example of east Delhi, you may be tempted to ask if investing more on parks is a sign of priorities going wrong. For, designated parking lots are not luxury items, they could be lifesavers too. 
 
 “If somebody suffers a heart attack in my colony at night, we cannot take him to a hospital. He will surely die,” said Shakarpur resident Shivesh Tiwari. Most of the narrow streets in Shakarpur, Ganesh Nagar, Laxmi Nagar and Pandav Nagar become no-go zones at night. 
 
 “There is no space for an ambulance or a fire engine to pass,” said Tiwari’s neighbour Manohar Bhardwaj. 
 
 But this problem isn’t specific to east Delhi wards. In the upscale Vasant Vihar, too, mobility is severely restricted due to parked cars on the roads. And a less-talked about casualty of this is social life. 
 
 “People of more than a dozen streets have stopped accepting dinner invites from friends or relatives because it is not possible to take out your car after 9pm, when most of the office-goers return home and park their cars on the road,” said Vivek Tandon, a functionary of Vasant Vihar RWA.
 
 But the parks here present a contrasting picture. The local councillor focused mostly on parks, and as a result, all the six blocks in Vasant Vihar had their local parks transform into sprawling arenas with open gyms, said banker Anand Shankar. But salubrity wasn’t the issue, parking was. That didn’t improve, despite the RWAs meeting the councillor many times, say residents. 
 
 North Delhi Municipal Corporation planned 19 parking facilities with crores of rupees as budgetary allocation. But so many years later, these remain on paper. The story is similar in the east too.
 
 But the GK councillor had an interesting explanation for the parking problem—he blamed it on the affluence of the people. “It is difficult to get land to develop parking facilities. Developing parks helps people get better health,” said councillor Kishan Chand Taneja. 
 
 GK 1 RWA member Rajiv Kakria put it bluntly: “Parks get more votes than parking lots and councillors know that.” But will it work this time? That’s an open question.
 
 
