PORVORIM: Making it clear that the jurisdiction over the state   will continue to remain with the state government, chief minister Manohar Parrikar said that the signing of the MoU between the state government, National Inland Waterways Authority of India (NIWAI) and Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) will transfer NIWAI’s power to the state government for improvement of river navigation and dredging of rivers to develop inland waterways.

  Ravi Naik moved a private member resolution that the government should not sign the MoU, and in case it has signed it then to withdraw “in order to protect the rights of our rivers like Mandovi, Zauri, Chapora, Mapusa, Sal and Cumbharjua. The motion was defeated by 21 votes to 10 votes.
 
 Parrikar, in his reply, said that the resolution was against the interest of the state and added that the   assembly cannot change the Act passed by the parliament that has nationalized the rivers.
 
 “We have asked NIWAI to allow the Goa government to take up dredging work and improve river navigation. The funds will come from NIWAI,” he said.
 
 Parrikar said that the Centre has not restricted fishing rights in rivers. “Also, jurisdiction over the river, including the minerals below the river, will remain with the state government,” he said, adding that this is the reason Captain of Ports (CoP) is still operating ferry service in the rivers despite the Act being passed in April 2016.
 
 MPT will be the nodal office for NIWAI and “they cannot work without approval of the Goa government”, he said.
 
 “Under the MOU, NIWAI has asked CoP to identify projects in the state, which they will fund,” Parrikar said. NIWAI cannot take up any project in the state without consulting with the state government, he added.
 
 “If we don’t sign MOU then all powers will remain with NIWAI,” he said.
 
 Speaking on the resolution, Naik said the river banks would be damaged, while Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo said that the people of the state were worried about the nationalization of rivers.
 
 “We should first have a master plan for the development of our rivers and then approach the centre for funds,” Navelim MLA Luizinho Faleiro. 
 
