NEW DELHI: BJP's resounding victory in UP will encourage the Modi government to quicken its  , with a strong emphasis on  .

 While Sena lacks options, a divided AIADMK and a fragmented opposition can work to the government's advantage even as Parliament remains susceptible to political grandstanding. The delayed GST, on which there is a fairly wide consensus, will be high priority for the government, which it will want to showcase as a signal tax reform it saw through. The reform is also linked to efforts to improve India's ease of doing business.
 
 The post-demonetisation exercise of trawling through the mountain of data generated by the nearly Rs 15 lakh crore deposited in banks is also expected to gather pace as the government looks to track down undeclared income and tax liability . The drive to expand the tax base and bring about a greater transparency in national finances is linked to generating revenues for welfare programmes, and over a period of time, lowering corporate and individual tax rates. The initiatives to promote online transactions and increase scope of the formal economy are intended to create a legacy that the government can set down as a milestone at the end of its term.
 
 Welfare programmes will receive the most attention as BJP looks to capitalise on what it feels is a strong entry into the “pro-poor“ constituency on the back of demonetisation's populist appeal. This is a vote BJP thinks it may be able to take away from Congress and populist satraps such as AAP. The focus on policies such as drug price control, housing for poor, health and farm insurance and access to government services are likely to increase in keeping with a strategy of targeted subsidies.
 
 The atmospherics in Parliament will remain contested though BJP's big majority in Lok Sabha will continue to count as it did in the passage of laws such as Aadhaar-linked services. The nature of polity will ensure that Congress, Trinamool and Left lead the chorus, aided by numbers in Rajya Sabha. The government may need to use the “money bill“ route to get past the Rajya Sabha veto. However, its capacity to strike deals with regional parties like AIADMK, BJD, TRS, TDP, NCP and JD(U) on an issue-to-issue basis should increase even as the approach of the 2019 election might bring about opposition unity . 
 
