Nagpur:   being the leading cancer in Indian women, Alexis Hospital launched a campaign for its early detection and prevention. The hospital plans to initiate a mass screening camp, and hold educational talks on early detection and vaccination.

 In a ceremony organized on Sunday, the hospital, jointly with HERD foundation, launched the campaign at a city hotel.
 
 University of California (San Francisco) medicine department professor Dr Pamela Munster was present at the ceremony as campaign ambassador. Dr Munster, a cancer survivor herself, has led similar campaigns in UAE. Within India, the campaign organized in the city will be her first initiative.
 
 A panel discussion led by Dr Munster was also organized. Former mayor Kunda Vijaykar, HERD foundation director Dr Suchika Deshmukh and hospital co-chairperson Zanubia Shams were also part of the discussion.
 
 Appreciating the campaign, Vijaykar said, “By targeting schools and colleges, we will make girls aware about the cancer at the right time. But that’s not all. We will need to take a step ahead and reach rural areas. Women from these areas don’t come to us even though they face problems. We need to reach them by going door-to-door.”
 
 Dr Deshmukh said, “Cervical cancer is the most preventable form of cancer. Paradoxically, it is also the leading cause of death due to cancer among women in developing countries.”
 
 She said, “80% of cervical cancer across the world occurs in developing countries. There is still no nationwide programme on it, and not enough screening. Cervical cancer is a menace in Vidarbha as per RST Cancer Institute.”
 
 Preventive vaccines against Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) are generally taken to protect from cervical cancer. Dr Deshmukh said, like girls, boys also needs to get these vaccines. As a part of awareness, she said, “The same virus which can cause cervical cancer in girls, can lead to head and neck cancer in boys.”
 
 The vaccines will show the best results between 10 and 15 years of age. However, they can be taken till 26. In the ceremony, doctors also suggested that a women should go through the screening once every three years for early detection.
 
 Initially, the hospital plans to counsel students across the schools and colleges of the city. Screening test for the cancer will be performed free of cost along with consultation. For receiving free test, one can contact the hospital on phone number 7030921405.
 
 
