MUMBAI: The   continued its diatribe against its former ally in the  , Bharatiya Janata Party , on Saturday. Sena president   raised a question mark over Prime Minister  's honesty during a rally held at BandraKurla Complex.

 Referring to allegations of corruption made by the BJP against Shiv Sena, regarding desilting of drains in the BMC, Uddhav hurled some muck on the BJP by questioning it over corruption in the Ganga cleansing project.
 
 “BJP is alleging corruption in BMC. What happened in Namami Ganga project?
 Thousands of crores were allotted for cleaning the Ganga, but nothing was cleaned.Where did all that money go?“ In Modi's pocket? Or in his Rs10 lakh suit?“ said Uddhav.
 
 To buttress his claim, he waved a copy of a report on transparency in local bodies published by the Centre.
 
 He termed the BJP as a party of eunuchs.“The Sena comprises men, not eunuchs,“ said Uddhav.
 
 During his 45-minute speech at the last election rally for the BMC poll, Thackeray not only slammed Modi, but also took potshots at chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and other BJP leaders like Venkaiah Naidu and Vi nod Tawde. Alluding to the communal riots of 1992-93, he clai med that it was the Shiv Sena and its Sainiks who sa ved Mumbai then.
 
 “Shiv Sena is a party of men, not eu nuchs,“ he said.
 
 He also targeted his cousin   who had earlier levelled allegations that the Sena did not only want a memorial for party founder Bal Thackeray at the Mayor's bungalow, a prime plot in tony Shivaji Park, but was wanting to usurp this prime piece of land.
 
 “If it is so, why do you want to ally with Shiv Sena?“ Uddhav asked the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief.
 
 Uddhav also asked why Modi had bestowed the Padma Vibhushan on Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar. “Modi says Pawar hand-held and guided him into politics. For that, if he can honour him with the Padma Vibhushan, why not the Bharat Ratna for Savarkar?“ Uddhav asked.
 
 He hastened to clarify that he was not going soft on the Congress. “I am against the Congress and NCP. Now, also against the BJP.“
 
