Mumbai: The National Company Law Tribunal ( ) on Wednesday dismissed a contempt petition filed by two investment firms of ousted   chairman   against   for initiating the procedure for his removal as a company director.

 The quasi-judicial tribunal’s Mumbai bench, while not restraining   Sons from conducting an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) for Mistry’s removal on February 6, however, said it would decide on it along with another petition by Mistry’s two companies seeking supersession of the Tata Sons board and relief against his removal as its director during hearings scheduled on January 31-February 1.
 
 The tribunal also allowed the two firms,  , to file an affidavit in three days on their plea against the EGM and three days for a rejoinder from Tata Sons.
 
 A bench of judicial member B S V Prakash Kumar and member V Nallasenapthy passed the order at 5 pm in less than a minute as counsels from both sides — Ravi Kadam and Bharat Vasani for Tata Sons, and Milind Sathe, Janak Dwarkadas and Somasekhar Sundaresan for Mistry and his companies — waited silently.
 
 Mistry is the largest individual shareholder in Tata Sons along with his brother. Together, they own 18.4%. Mistry’s two companies had last month moved the tribunal for relief against his proposed removal as Tata Sons director, and for action on Tata Sons for “oppression of minority shareholders” and “mismanagement” of Tata Group companies. The tribunal had fixed January 31 as the hearing date after recording that parties agreed to “not file any interim application or initiate any action or proceedings over this subject matter…’’
 
 Mistry’s companies later filed a second petition for contempt alleging violation of the NCLT order by Tata Sons,  , other directors and several Tata trustees after a notice was issued calling for an EGM on February 6 for Mistry’s removal as director.
 
 Aryama Sundaram, counsel for Mistry’s companies, had on Monday argued that his party was the largest minority shareholders of Tata Sons for decades and were only trying to protect rights to be “represented” by a director and against mismanagement of the $103-billion Tata Group.
 
 Abhishek Singhvi, counsel for Tatas, denied charges of contempt, while accusing Mistry of “stabbing the company in the back”. Singhvi cited a letter written by Mistry to the income tax authorities in January giving details of Tata Trusts. He said the contempt plea was just a bogey to reargue the main case where Mistry had got no relief on December 22. He said there was no undertaking that barred the company from conducting its affairs.
 
 Mistry’s counsel Dwarkadas said Tata Sons was wrongly describing his actions in responding to a summons from the income tax department as “a stab in the back.” Dwarkadas added, “They (Tata Sons) had no reasons to remove Mistry. The fact is that I-T sought information with regard to Tata Trusts from the company and its directors, and such information, when given by Mistry, was being dubbed as leaking information and stabbing the company in the back…the cat is out of the bag as it is our contention that the Trusts are controlling the group companies.”
 
 
