THANE: If all goes according to plan then all government offices located along the   road in Thane west could soon be housed in a single  , freeing up nearly five acres of   that could be used up for developing a multi-storey parking lot.

 As per plan, offices of various government agencies — including the tehsildar, Thane Nagar police station, public works department, zilla parishad health department and schools, along with municipal offices that operate from various premises along the 450-m stretch on either sides of the station road will be clustered together and relocated into a single administrative building that could be developed in the area. The collective area occupied by the various departments currently is around five acres.
 
 Roughly, three acres of land could be used for development, leaving aside the rest for developing parking lots. The project is currently in the planning stage and would require approvals from various departments. If approved, the vacated land space could ensure parking facilities for over 500 cars and 5,000 bikes. 
 
 Officials from the TMC’s town planning department said that an estimate of the actual built-up space would be done soon and modes of executing it would also be worked upon. The project could possibly be undertaken through the PPP model, but the same would be finalized only after a feasibility report is prepared. The development control rule mandates a floor space index of two for redevelopment of government offices which could make the project financially viable, said a civic official. 
 
 The concept was proposed by Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde at a meeting between the public works department and agencies, including urban development and MMRDA at Mantralaya on Friday. The TMC has been asked to sketch the project for further approvals from the concerned agencies. “It has been proposed to form a cluster of all offices in the 500-m long stretch along Thane station and have a unified structure housing all the offices. The offices are currently scattered and as most of them were constructed decades ago, the city saw vertical growth. The structures occupy a lot of land space which we plan to exploit for parking,” said Shinde. Once finalised, the offices would be temporarily relocated to Saket.
 
 A civic official from the town planning department said that the idea was to decongest the stretch and ensure an option for smooth passage and parking of vehicles at Thane station and adjoining offices. 
 
 Residents wanting to access the vegetable market, Gadkari, railway station or government offices could park their vehicles at the facility once developed.
 
 Activists and residents have welcomed the move saying that it will help decongest traffic in the area.
 
 
