MAKORA: Election time is just a reminder of forgotten promises for the residents of a cluster of villages situated across the Ravi in Gurdaspur district. Politicians have been calling upon these villagers for decades with promises of a brighter future but hardly anything changes on the ground.

 “For us life has not changed since the Partition. None of the governments or politicians have taken interest in getting a permanent bridge built across the Ravi and till date we are dependent on boats as a means of transport even when it flowing dangerously,” said Jagdish Singh of   village while talking to TOI on Wednesday.
 
 About 13 km from Dinanagar is the Ravi’s quay at Makora village, which is the only port for nearly 2,500 residents of Mamian Chakk, Toor, Kukker, Bhariyal and   villages to travel to nearby towns and cities. Mamwal, Raj Bela, Nikka, Manjwal and   villages have already been deserted by their residents and these are now called ‘bechirag’ (uninhabited) villages.
 
 The temporary pontoon bridge over the river either gets dismantled before the rainy season or is washed away by sudden flash floods and then begins boatman Nachattar Singh’s arduous daily routine.
 
  “I have been ferrying people for the past 25 years. In normal weather I make as many as 15-20 rounds in a day but during inclement weather it comes down to three to four rounds,” said Nachattar, adding that many people have met with accidents in the past. “Imagine, if there is a medical emergency at night and worse if it is raining, we are left with no choice but to pray to the Almighty,” said   of Toor village, whose nearly five acres of his land was eroded by the river’s changing course and he did not receive any compensation. “For politicians, we are nothing but votes. They will start making a beeline for our villages, crossing the river on BSF’s motor boats to urge us to vote in their favour and make fresh promise of getting a bridge constructed immediately after they are elected,” he said.
 
 There are two government schools, one each in Toor and Bhariyal villages, where more than six teachers arrive on boat to teach and the school remains closed when the river is swollen.
 
 For a second year student of BA Prabdheep Kaur, reaching her college after a boat ride and three km long walk to Jhabkara village for taking bus to Gurdaspur, is an arduous task. “The political leadership has never shown any interest in getting a permanent bridge constructed to ease our lives,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, ADC, development, Gurdaspur, Jagwinderjit Singh said the administration had ordered the construction of a pontoon bridge, which would be ready soon. 
 
 He added that they would have two polling stations for 738 registered voters of these villages. For the polling day, he stated that they had made arrangements for an additional boat.
 
