Gurgaon: The   continues to remain on the drawing board as authorities keep altering its implementation plan. 

 The latest move is to introduce the service in two phases. According to officials, in the first phase, 300 of the total 500 buses planned under the scheme will be rolled out.
 
 Of these 300, half of the buses will run on the GCC (gross cost contract) model, while the rest will operate on the NCC (net cost contract) model. Under the GCC model, private operators will operate the buses and MCG will pay them a fixed amount per kilometre travelled. Under NCC, the operator will be responsible for everything, with MCG solely in a monitoring role. 
 
 “We’re thinking of coming out with a tender document by next month, under which we propose to introduce 300 buses in the first phase, and run these under both models. We’ll introduce the rest 200 buses in the second phase later on. Our effort is to have the service operational by November or December this year,” said Anand Mohan Sharan, principal secretary, urban local bodies department.
 
 He said talks are on with Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) in this regard. “We’re in talks with DIMTS and intend to have them on board as our knowledge partner, since they are already running buses in neighbouring Delhi,” he said. On Wednesday, MCG commissioner V Umashankar held a meeting with DIMTS officials in Delhi.
 
 Various Haryana governments have been planning to start a   in Gurgaon for over a decade, but it has been on the backburner in the absence of a concrete plan of action. Even now, plans for bus routes, stops and terminals are yet to take final shape.
 
 Gurgaon authorities seem to be losing patience with the Chandigarh bureaucracy. “The city bus project file has been lying in Chandigarh for  . 
 
 The chief minister needs to intervene. Unless he takes personal interest in it, things are not going to move. Chandigarh appears to be purposefully delaying the project,” said a district official.
 
 Once the Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is formed, things might get better. “All this while, the project was being handled by MCG. Once GMDA is running, it will handle the project. Approvals, though, will still have to come from Chandigarh and the chief minister will still need to mediate for the city to get an efficient transport system,” the official said.
 
 
