IMPHAL: To ensure smooth conduct of the upcoming Republic Day celebrations in the insurgency-hit state which is going to the polls in March, security has been beefed up across the state, especially in the   and its strategic areas. 

 In addition to conducting combing operations in the city's busy areas for the past few days, police commandos have intensified round-the-clock patrolling in and around the core area of the capital.
 
 On Friday, police commandos carried out a house-to-house search at Nagaram and  , picking up more than 10 people - including four women, police sources said. They have been handed over to Lamphel police station for further verification, they added.
 
 Besides the high-security Raj Bhavan, security has been stepped up at the CM's bungalow, official residences of ministers, legislators and senior officials, headquarters of all state government departments, business establishments and branch offices of various central government units. Earlier, rebels had attacked the CM's bungalow and   with grenades and lathod bombs. 
 
 On Thursday night, a combined team of Assam Rifles soldiers and Manipur police busted an illegal arms factory in the   district. Besides pulling up two women gunrunners and a gun manufacturer from different areas, the security team also recovered six pistols and various gun-making tools near S Kotin village, a source said. The trio, along with the recovered arms and other material, were handed over to Churachandpur Police.
 
 Various rebel organizations fighting for Manipur's "independence" have been attacking security forces over the years, killing and injuring security men and civilians. Republic Day and the days preceding the occasion are usually sensitive ones - many rebel organizations have been responsible for bomb explosions in various parts of the capital on such occasions in the past.
 
 Notably, the controversial Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act (AFSPA) has been lifted from Imphal's municipal areas covering seven assembly constituencies.
 
 Meanwhile, Manipur celebrated its 45th Statehood Day at the secretariat complex here. Chief minister  , addressing the gathering, highlighted the development in various key sectors achieved by the state. Ibobi Singh urged underground outfits operating in the state to shun the path of violence and come to the negotiating table for dialogue.
 
 
