The Modi government's decision to go for demonetisation last year and implement GST (Goods and  ) this year may have brought some “immediate pain“ to the people, but the ruling   is hopeful that both policies will eventually help create a robust economy , the signs for which may start showing in the “long run“ by 2019.

 The party believes, both the policy decisions will eventually help in cleaning up the system and create a “stronger foundation for the economy , usher in greater transparency and reduce corruption in the system“.This will be the party line to be drawn up at the one-day BJP national executive coming up on September 25.
 
 That the “immediate pains“ indicated by the present dip in the growth rate is hurting the ruling party as it readies for a spate of assembly polls, leading up to the 2019   elections, is clear from the fact that one of the key focus areas of the only resolution to be drawn up at the one-day meet here on Monday will be the state of the economy.
 
 “Demonetisation was a systemic change in the direct tax regime and GST in the indirect tax system. We were expecting some pain because it is natural when there is a shift. But we are long term players... we have to take the country forward and Prime Minister Modi has set the basics right,“ BJP general secretary   said on Wednesday , when asked about the dip in the growth rate.
 
 BJP is confident that the signs of the economy picking up will be clear by 2019, in time for the Lok Sabha polls, when people would be able to feel the impact of a healthier and transparent system, a long-term benefit for the country.
 
 Monday's BJP meet, which will also mark the end of centenary celebrations of party ideologue Deen Dayal Upadhyay , is slated to be an extended executive with all the party's legislators --MPs and MLAs-having been invited for it. With elections coming up in   and   and to be followed up by Karnataka and some other states next year, the party feels the need to clearly spell out the longterm benefits of GST implementation and demonetisation for the economy .
 
 
