BHOPAL:   led-judicial commission probing jailbreak by eight alleged SIMI members from Bhopal Central jail and their encounter thereafter, has written yet another communication to the jail department asking them to furnish all details, which they had already submitted, on affidavit. Meanwhile, Bhopal police have also submitted another set of documents and detailed statements on jailbreak and encounter. 

 Commission had started its work by serving a notice to the jail authorities seeking details under which the slain youths were incarcerated. This commission was constituted five days after the October 30 jailbreak by SIMI operatives, and it had started their work almost a month later.
 
 Justice Pandey has been given three months to investigate on how the alleged SIMI under trials escaped from jail and the circumstances under which they were shot dead. "Jail authorities have been asked to give number and details of cases under which the SIMI suspects were arrested and kept in judicial custody in an affidavit. They will also have to furnish name and details of the courts where they were being tried," an officer at the jail headquarters told TOI pleading anonymity.
 
 Sources say the state government will have to extend tenure of this commission. It took the government almost a month to provide a suitable accommodation to house the office of the commission and provide basic infrastructure. Notice to the jail department was the first step towards inquiry, said the officer. Autopsy reports and witness statements would be cross examined next month.
 
 Police have also submitted the ballistic and forensic reports before the inquiry commission. The blueprint of the midnight jailbreak in Bhopal was drawn along the lines of the daring escape by SIMI operatives from Khandwa prison, 130 km from Indore, exactly three years ago. The Diwali jailbreak in Bhopal was almost a re-run of the 2013 incident, masterminded by the Abu Faisal-led module of the banned   (SIMI). The strategy and tools used were the same -a bed sheet to scale walls of fortified premises, said prison officials.
 
 Three SIMI operatives, who were part of the Khandwa jailbreak and were later nabbed and dispatched to a secure barrack in Bhopal prison in 2014, were Zakir Hussain Sheikh, Mehboob   and  . These three operatives were among the eight eliminated by the special task force.  , who is believed to have played a key role in  , could not flee this time as he was confined in a separate cell. He had motivated his group to form a separate wing within SIMI to fund terror before he was arrested for the first time in June 2011 and sent to Khandwa prison. 
 
 
