Former director of the Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS), Gaurav   insists that it's time for  's Breakup Song from 'Ae Dil Hai Mushkil' to move over. He says it's so that the quirky heartbreak track, 'Thukra Ke Dil Mera Intekaam Dekhegi', which he’s penned for Ratna Sinha's UP-based romcom 'Shaadi Main Zaroor Aana', can set feet tapping and fingers snapping.

  Former director of the North Central Zone Cultural Centre (NCZCC), a central government initiative, Bansal has recently been appointed the Chief Public Relations Officer of the North-Central Railways. He is a 2000 batch IRTS officer from Uttar Pradesh.
 
  "The hero, who’s been dumped because he has failed to make it big, is back with a vengeance, telling his dushman-lover that she will now yearn for his dosti," says Bansal. The bureaucrat, who got a chance to meet the film's leads,   and Kriti Kharbanda, is delighted that Ratna and producer Vinod Bachchan, after going through his poems, thought this one would make for a film song. "During my earlier posting as director of the NCZCC, Allahabad, I happened to meet Ratna and Vinod, since a large portion of the film was shot in the NCZCC premises. While chatting about the film during the lunch break, where I was invited, I asked if I could write lyrics for the film. They knew about my love for writing, as I have participated in several kavi sammellans and have written books on poetry, so they agreed. They explained to me the situation for which I had to write. When I narrated the first draft of the lyrics to Ratnaji, she asked me to re-do some parts of it. The revised lyrics were greatly appreciated, and they decided to incorporate them as a song in the film," he recounts. The film’s leads both play characters from UP – the hero from Allahabad, and the heroine from Kanpur. The film has been set and shot in the state, including in Lucknow and Allahabad.
 
  
  Gaurav Krishna Bansal, a 2000 batch IRTS officer from UP, is now Chief Public Relations Officer of the North-Central Railways
 
  Debutant lyricist Bansal is determined to prove that officers are not stone-hearted, but instead are brimming with literary talent that usually doesn't find an audience. "Afsar ka bhi dil hota hai!" he asserts, hoping that other government officials find a complementary career in mainstream cinema too. He says that he started writing when he was quite young, and being a bureaucrat never hindered his writing. "My passion gave me the opportunity to participate in several kavi sammellans with well-known poets like Surendra Sharma, Ashok Chakradhar and Gopal Das Neeraj. Later, I also started writing lyrics for songs. It was my wife who really wanted these songs to become part of a   project. Due to my work, it was difficult for me to visit Mumbai to fulfill this aspiration. So when I got the chance to meet Ratna, I thought it would make my dream of penning a song for a film come true,"” he tells us.
 
  (With inputs from Meera.Vohra@timesgroup.com)
 
 
