Bhubaneswar: First it was a succession of false starts in her qualifying events, then there were incessant showers on the day of the final. But  , egged on by the home support from people who braved the rain to watch her event, managed to claim the bronze medal in the 100m dash at the 22nd Asian athletics Championships at Kalinga Stadium here on Friday.

 Although her timing of 11.52 seconds was not enough to claim the coveted gold and fell significantly short of the   qualification mark of 11.26 seconds, Dutee stayed delighted with her podium finish in front of the home crowd.
 
 “I was hoping to make the qualification mark for London in the final and was saving my best for the final,” said the 21-year-old, who ran her season’s best so far of 11.30 seconds at Indian Grand Prix in May. “But my main aim is to win medals for India. And to be able to do that at the Asian Championships and also in front of the home crowd, a chance that I have not had so far, makes me very happy and pleased.”
 
 It was always going to be a tough job for Dutee to clinch the yellow metal in the marquee event. Her toughest competitors and the eventual gold and silver medalists — Kazakhs Victoriya Zyabkin and Olga Safronova respectively — had both come into the competition with better timings. They clinched the top-two spots with timings of 11.39 seconds and 11.45 seconds respectively.
 
 “The competition was really tough. They have better timings and their heights are an advantage for them. I can’t do anything about the height difference, so I knew I had to work hard and give my best at the competition,” said Dutee. “But then came the rain and it was really difficult to maintain my grip and accelerate adequately.”
 
 Dutee’s dream of making it to August’s premier event in London is, however, not yet over. She will get a chance to make the qualification mark at the inter-state championships scheduled from July 15 in Guntur.
 
 “I am going to go for it in Guntur. I have a season-best of 11.30 and my personal best has been 11.24 that I attained in Almaty last year. I have better training facilities (She trains with the likes of PV Sindhu in Hyderabad). I keep clocking timings between 11.30-11.20 in training. So I am still hopeful of clinching the spot for London,” she added.
 
 But the CAS verdict on female hyperandrognism scheduled for July 27 is always at the back of her mind. “It’s my life, you know. I have once been unceremoniously thrown out of competition. But I have a great legal team and also have the support of the state and central governments. So I am only going to concentrate on working hard to make my dreams come true and win laurels for India.” she signed off. 
 
 
