Tirupur: Late chief minister K Kamaraj-led government had set up elementary schools in villages across Tamil Nadu with an aim of benefiting the downtrodden section of the society. The newly-opened Government Arts College in Palladam has served the same purpose as it has provided a new lease of life to at least 22 students, who either would have never pursued higher education or realised its importance only during the later part of their lives.

 Many of them had discontinued studies at private colleges as they could not even pay Rs 7,000 as annual fee. Others had given up higher education for small jobs. But, thanks to the government-run college, they are back in the world of letters.
 
 For M Nijibunisha, it was tough even to continue her schooling because she had only her grandparents to support her. After completing class XII in 2013, she tried to get a seat in LRG Government Women’s College in Tirupur, but in vain. “Being daily wagers, my grandparents could not spend much for my education if I wanted to study in a private college or travel to reach other government colleges. So, I opted to work in a private firm. But, thanks to the new college, my academic career did not meet an end prematurely,” Nijibunisha, now a student of BA English, told TOI.
 
 “I had joined B.Com CA in a private arts college and also completed first year. But, after my father, an agricultural worker, was not able to pay Rs 12,000 as annual fee, I had to discontinue the course. Now, I got the opportunity again to continue my education. I am a B.Com first year student now,” said M Jayira Banu of Sankaralinganar Street in Palladam.
 
 The college will benefit graduates from more than 15 government higher secondary schools in Palldam Panchayat union, Palladam MLA A Natarajan told TOI. “Dalits in Palladam and its surrounding villages were not ready to send their children, especially girls, even to Chikkanna Government Arts College, which is hardly 21km away from Palladam. Apart from travel expense, they were concerned about their children’s safety,” he said.
 
 Seconding his view, M Deepa, a B.Com student, said, “Many of my senior batchmates from local villages did not pursue higher education because of non-availability of a government college nearby. I too could not get a seat in LRG College and sat idle at home for one year. During that time, it was heartbreaking to see others going to college.”
 
 The college has got an overwhelming response from local students. Of the 300 sanctioned seats in the college, 214 are occupied. Out of the five courses-BA Tamil, BA English, B.Com, BSc Mathematics and BSc Computer Science, three are almost filled. While BA Tamil course attracted only six students in a decade-old college, Palladam college has 52 students pursuing the course.
 
 “After seeing the tremendous response, Bharathiyar University, on our request, increased 10 seats each in the five courses. More than 50% of our students are girls,” principal in-charge R Jayachandran said.
 
 “Since most of the students come from poor families, they wanted to do part-time jobs to meet their daily needs. On their request, we altered the college timing, which is now between 9am and 2pm,” he added. 
 
 
