VADODARA/ANAND: Children visiting this government library are in for a ‘cool’ time soon. They will also be able to access the internet for browsing and research through newly installed computers while sitting on revolving chairs. 

 For the first time in Gujarat, a taluka-level government library has been renovated with air-conditioning and internet facilities without any government funding for users. All thanks to a US-based NRG. 
 
 Dr  , 70, has ensured that the government library in his native Borsad town of Anand district gets a complete makeover. Parmar, a cancer specialist, who since 1972 is based in Gadsden, Alabama, also wants this library to double up as a cultural centre in this rural heartland of Charotar region of Central Gujarat. 
 
 “A majority of Indians settled abroad have the desire to help their country. Unfortunately, many do not get that opportunity,” said Parmar, who has got the new building constructed at the cost of Rs one crore. “It was in 2015 that I had seen this building which had just one reading room and was falling apart. With the idea to build a nice library, we had moved the proposal which was accepted and the work started one and a half years back,” said Parmar, who after completing his MBBS from M S University Baroda Medical College shifted to US where he underwent a three years training in inter medicine and fellowship in medical oncology and later even started his solo practice. 
 
 “We have also constructed a hall on the second floor of the library which can act as an art gallery cum cultural activity centre where groups can organise art exhibitions or cultural programmes. During exam time, it can also be used as a reading room,” said Parmar. 
 
 “The donor had approached our department voluntarily. It is because of this donation that the library will now be able to accommodate over 100 users at a time instead of earlier 35,” said Anand district librarian Amita M Dave, adding that the library which will be inaugurated on June 3 by  , sports and youth cultural activities minister. 
 
 “The library has 15,000 books and 600 reference books,” she said. 
 
