PATNA: The state would again have Nitish Kumar-led NDA government four years after he had unilaterally dismantled it in June 2013. The term of first NDA government had started in November 2005. 

 The state BJP first announced its support to Nitish and then joining the government within hours of Nitish tendering his resignation to governor K N Tripathi on Wednesday evening. 
 
 “The BJP has decided to support Nitish in the government formation. It has been done for the reason that the MLAs do not favour midterm election in the state,” said former deputy CM and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo), adding: “The BJP would also be part of the government.” 
 
 Later, the BJP legislature party delegation also called on the governor to apprise him of the party’s support to Nitish and joining the government formed by him. 
 
 JD(U) spokesman and MLC Neeraj Kumar welcomed the BJP’s decision. “We welcome the BJP decision in the interest of Bihar to give a government of high moral values,” said Neeraj. 
 
 JD(U), BJP and three other NDA partners — Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) — together command majority support of 129 MLAs in the 243-member state assembly. Minimum 122 MLAs are required for government formation. There are also four Independent MLAs whose support to the new government would also be there, increasing the total strength to 133. 
 
 However, the BJP made the announcement after the party’s parliamentary board in Delhi took the decision. Practically, it was the BJP which took the first call of supporting Nitish in government formation after Nitish thanked PM Narendra Modi immediate after his congratulation tweet on his resignation. 
 
 Indeed, the question that immediately struck the political circles on Wednesday was if Nitish would return back to the NDA out of which he had walked out on the heels of the indication by the BJP’s central leadership at its Goa meet in May 2013 that the then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi would be the BJP’s PM candidate for the 2014 parliamentary election.
 
 
