GHAZIABAD: There has been an increase in the number of transgender voters registered in the districts of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad in the electoral rolls for the 2017 assembly election, as compared to lists drawn up for previous elections.

 In the   released on January 12, the number of voters in the “others” category stood at 101 in GB Nagar. In Ghaziabad, the number of voters in this category stood at 99. In comparison, not a single voter had registered under the “others” category in GB Nagar during the 2014 general elections. 
 
 In Ghaziabad, however, 61 voters had been included in this category in 2014.
 
 The practice of including a third category in the gender section, of the electoral rolls began with the lists prepared for the UP assembly election of 2012. In that year, there were a total of 15 voters in the “others” category across the three assembly seats of GB Nagar. The corresponding figure for Ghaziabad stood at 21 in 2012. There was no third category for gender of voters on the lists drawn up for the assembly polls held in UP in 2007 or in the general elections in 2009.
 
 The increase in the number of voters under the “others” category, officials said, could be because of the fact that more people have come out in the open about their sexual identity. Also, prior to the 2012 state assembly election, voters of all genders were required to identify themselves either under the “male” or “female” category.
 
 District administration officials said the mandatory inclusion of the   came after the landmark judgment of the   in April 2014 in the National Legal Services Authority vs Union of India case. In the judgment, the apex court declared transgender people to be a third gender, affirming that fundamental rights granted under the Constitution of India will be equally applicable to them. The court gave them the right to self-identification of their gender as male, female or third gender.
 
 Ghaziabad district magistrate Nidhi Kesarwani told TOI that no separate drive or sensitisation programme had been conducted to highlight the inclusion of an “others” category in the gender section of the electoral rolls. “Our focus, however, has been to include more women and first-time voters in the electoral rolls,” Kesarwani said.
 
 GB Nagar district magistrate N P Singh said that he held a meeting with an organisation named Basera – which works for the cause of transgenders and called for their enrolment. “We held two meetings and informed them about their rights and responsibilities in a democracy. There was not a single enrolment in the third gender category in the electoral rolls in   in 2012, but the figure stands at 49 now.
 
 “Similarly the figure rose from zero to nine in Jewar. The number of third gender people increased from 15 to 43 during the same period in the Dadri assembly constituency,” he said.
 
 Singh said that the election department held a special camp from January 12-16 where some more applications were received. “The total number of people in the third gender category will increase once the final list is published,” Singh said.
 
 
