UDAIPUR: Four states, including  ,  ,   are likely to have   (HMBs) based on   Rajasthan leads in the field presently with three milk banks already functioning and 8 more to come in operation by March end. After the success of Divya Mother   (DMMB) in Udaipur which was the first of its kind in North India, the state government had adopted the model for the entire state. 

 The first state run 'Jeewan dhara' milk bank was inaugurated in March last year at J K Lon hospital in collaboration with the Norwegian government. The government had announced to have one mother milk bank each at every district hospital within three years to reduce the infant mortality rate in state. Since its inception in April 2013, DMMB has collected around 40,000 units of milk from 6,193 donors saving more than 3,000 infants from death.
 
 Devendra Agrawal, founder of DMMB, who is the state advisor on the milk bank programme, is also a member at the National Technical Advisory Group (NTAG) on HMB to the Central government. "We have surrendered DMBB, Divya Mother Milk Analyzer and Research Centre, breastfeeding clinic, cradle points, shelter home projects with its complete assets to the state government who will now run the project," Agarwal announced on Monday at a press meet. 
 
 "The NTAG is working on guidelines to establish similar milk banks across the country and the four states are front runners in implementing the programme," Agarwal said.
 
 "The breastfeeding clinic in Udaipur has been instrumental in helping lactating mothers to feed their babies through proper training and counselling. Some 4,000 women who were not able to nurse their babies benefited from the clinic," Agarwal said. 
 
 The DMMB has also helped parents the option of donated breast milk when the mother's milk is not available. Efficient and trained staff collects, screens, pasteurizes and distributes donates milk to infants and mothers in need. It supports mothers who are unable to feed the baby at the time of birth.
 
 The bank had last year started community human milk bank service to promote the health and nourishment of all neonates in the community. "A survey by the Rajasthan government, found 42% of newborns in the state were undernourished and needed mother's milk," Agarwal said. 
 
 
