PANAJI/MARGAO: The fault lines within the MGP+GSM+SS alliance lie exposed—the manifesto of the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party ( ), the senior partner of the alliance, bares it all. 

 In its manifesto released on Saturday, the MGP has chosen to maintain silence on the core issue on which the alliance was formed—the medium of instruction (MoI). 
 
 The MGP has also skirted the issue of casinos which the   has turned into its poll plank. The MGP manifesto, otherwise, is a virtual copy of that of GSM and Shiv Sena, which were also released on Saturday.
 
 The Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM), which is backed by the rebel   Goa prant, has stressed in its manifesto that it would start discontinuing grants from 2017-18 in a phased manner to ensure that by 2020 all grants to Diocesan schools were stopped.
 
 “To understand our seriousness, you have to realize that just on this one issue of the language, we have reached a situation where we had to form a party,” Goa Suraksha Manch president Anand Shirodkar said.
 
 However, MGP leader Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar seemed to suggest that the MoI issue was of little consequence. “Medium of instruction is an old issue. The issue of stopping of grants is a small thing and will be decided later when we sit together. I have a long term vision. If you see most of the English medium schools don’t get grants,” he said.
 
 Sources say that there is pressure on the MGP from some candidates not to go with the GSM’s MoI policy. For example, supporters of MGP candidate in St Andre constituency Jagdish Bhobe have demanded that they would not vote for ‘Lion’ if the party decides to withdraw grants to the existing English medium primary schools.
 
 GSM has also vowed to stop all casinos, something that MGP president Deepak Dhavalikar described as virtually impossible. In its manifesto, GSM has promised to amend the Goa Gambling Act “to enable us to terminate the licenses for all casinos and the licenses of all casinos will be terminated, subject to due process of law.”
 
 The MGP has completely ignored this issue in its manifesto and Dhavalikar has clearly indicated his reluctance to shift or shut down casinos operating in Goa.
 
 “It is very difficult to relocate or shift or amend the Act to stop all casinos. Presently, if we stop casinos or we move them, they will move the Supreme Court. In future, we will not allow any more casinos,” Dhavalikar said.
 
 However, the absence of the two key issues from the MGP manifesto sparked concerns among the politerati that the alliance between the three entities could be on thin ice.
 
 Uday Bhembre, chief of the political cell of the Bhartiya Bhasha Suraksha Manch (BBSM), the parent body of the GSM, however, sought to allay any fears of disagreements between the alliance partners over the MoI issue. 
 
 Speaking to TOI later, Bhembre said that the MGP’s silence over the issue could probably be owing to the Supreme Court judgment that says seeking votes on the basis of voter’s religion, race, caste, community or language amounts to corrupt practice that could attract disqualification of the legislator. 
 
 “I think they probably decided to err on the side of caution. Otherwise, all three alliance partners are on the same page over the MoI issue. The concerns arising out of the Supreme Court judgment was discussed among all the alliance partners. I had given a legal opinion that we may pursue the line that the alliance would promote primary   as per the universal principles governing the subject, instead of being specific about Konkani or Marathi. Perhaps, they decided to play it safe and chose not to touch the issue at all,” Bhembre said. 
 
 As regards other issues, the veteran lawyer said that any perceived disagreements would not pose a threat to the continuance of the alliance. “In an alliance, the alliance partners usually are free to include or exclude issues so as to maintain the identity of the respective outfit. However, if the alliance comes to office, a common minimum programme would be worked out to ensure smooth governance,” Bhembre said. 
 
 Asked what would be the GSM’s stand in case the MGP, being the senior alliance partner, chose to see the other way on the issue of MoI if the alliance came to office, Bhembre stressed, “In such a (hypothetical) scenario, the alliance government would cease to exist; we will withdraw support to the government. This has been conveyed to the MGP in clear terms; as the issue of withdrawal of grants to English medium primary schools is the foundation on which the alliance was formed.”
 
 
