BHOPAL:   president   has kicked up a fresh controversy on Sunday alleging that  , the nephew of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is involved in illegal  . Yadav said sand excavation from a mine, leased out to Singh, continues despite having no environment clearance.

 Pradhyumman is the son of Narendra Singh Chouhan, brother of chief minister.
 
 Yadav has issued pictures of heavy machines excavating sand from the river Narmada in Budhni. These pictures were taken on Friday. The pictures were taken by an activist, who is fighting five cases of sand mining in National Green Tribunal (NGT) and he had used the FB live while carrying out videography at the mining site.
 
 Issuing videos and pictures of sand mining allegedly taking place at mines with help of heavy earth moving machines, Yadav dared the CM to stop it. He termed CM’s Namami Devi Narmade yatra to save the river as a “natak”.
 
 Denying mining operations at village Jahazpura in Rehti tehsil of Budhni district, Narendra Singh said, “No mining is taking place. Our documents are not complete and we have yet to get clearance.”
 
 It is a baseless allegation that mining is taking place. Anyone can come and confirm this in the village, he said.
 
 V Parihar, who is fighting five cases of illegal sand mining in the NGT, says, “Rules of Madhya Pradesh mining department says the mine owner would be held responsible even for illegal mining in neighbouring mines of the owner. I took help of the GPS to locate khasra number of the mine. One can tally the GPS coordinates from the Face Book live. The technical details can be investigated by government.”
 
 He said he would take up the issue with the NGT.
 
 Last month, Rashmi Pandey, mining inspector in Sehore, seized overloaded dumpers allegedly belonging to Pradhyuman Singh. District mining officer MA Khan said the case is in the collector’s court.
 
 On Saturday, the PCC president shot off a letter to the Prime Minister to get “illegal” sand mining by CM’s family in Sehore district, investigated.
 
