Nagpur: Diesel rates have gone up by nearly Rs4 a litre since July. This has put truckers in a difficult situation. They say they are not in a position to revise freights due to slump in business after the implementation of goods and services tax (GST) regime.

 From mid-June, rates of petroleum products are being revised on a daily basis. From July onwards, diesel rates have gone up by Rs3.79 a litre. In the first two weeks of September itself, the rates increased by Rs3.54 a litre.
 
 After GST, there has been a major slowdown in transport business. A large part of transporters’ fleet is lying idle along the highways. Transporters are not accepting bookings from traders if they don’t have a GST number. This is because the transporter can be held liable if goods without a GST number are caught during transit. 
 
 “In normal course, truckers could have increased freight to cover the higher fuel cost. At present though, there is no scope for it. Many are willing to transport goods at a lower rate,” said Kukku Marwah, the president of Nagpur Truckers Unity. Initially traders had stopped transporting their goods owing to general confusion relating to GST. Now, the transporters were not willing to take the risk if the client did not have a GST number, said Marwah.
 
 There is no scope to increase the freight because of poor demand. It is festive time and still a large number of trucks can be seen idle outside the city, he said.
 
 “A discount of Rs2,000 to 3,000 is easily available on a trip to Mumbai. Though giving it means we do not entirely recoup the expenses, it is better than keeping the vehicles idle,” said Satyanarayan Singh of TCI XPS’s branch in the city. He said business was down by more than half. The situation had worsened due to hike in diesel prices. By offering discounts, many truckers were hoping to at least recover EMI and other mandatory expenses, he said. 
 
 A source said GST regime may have hit the grey market but had also affected transporters. Now traders are trying to pool in goods in smaller quantities in a single truck. Items are being transported under a single GST number belonging to one of them. This can help in avoiding tax but has also brought down the volume for transporters.
 
 
