BENGALURU: Sitting in his Jayanagar 4th T Block home,   Harohalli Srinivasaiah   loves to keep himself updated on what’s happening in the society. He reads at least four newspapers before he leaves home, usually in the mornings, to participate in protests. Age is just a number as he’s all set to embark on his centenary year on April 10.

 Starting from the Quit India movement which he joined after hearing to a speech by Mahatma Gandhi to the recent protests in Diddalli of Kodagu against eviction of Adivasis, Doreswamy has been part of several protests. They include a movement for the unification of Karnataka in the 1950s, action against land-grabbers in 2014 and a 39-day protest with Mandur villagers near Hosakote to stop illegal dumping of waste.
 
 In 2016, Doreswamy, at 92, travelled 505kms from Bengaluru to Belagavi where he launched a day-night dharna outside the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha that forced the government to provide land to the landless in the state.
 
 So, what keeps Doreswamy ticking? “The poverty around us troubles me. Despite 70 years of freedom, the divide between the poor and rich is growing. Our political representatives are not discussing this issue. The only solution is to make politicians realise its importance. I keep finding ways to deal with it. Maybe that’s why I am active. Constant struggle can change our leaders’ attitude,” he said.
 
 Health issues do trouble him. “I have breathing problems, backache and leg pain. But I don’t like being idle. My wife Lalithamma too is not well but she keeps herself busy with household work and helps me,” he said.
 
 All about him
 
 * Born in Harohalli of Kanakapura taluk (present-day Ramanagara district) in 1918
 
 * Father died when he was five years old and raised by his grandfather
 
 * As a youngster, inspired by ‘My Early Life’ by Mahatma Gandhi
 
 * Alumnus of  , Bengaluru
 
 * When in college, arrested for participating in a freedom awareness programme in Bannappa Park near Hudson Circle
 
 * Published newspaper called Mysore Chalo Movement in 1947 
 
 Doreswamy Diary
 
 6am: Wakes up
 
 7-10am: Reads newspapers 
 
 10am: Simple breakfast like idli, dosa, etc
 
 11am: Attends protests or social welfare events. Or, studies documents of public interest 
 
 2pm: Lunch, usually rice and sambar
 
 5-6pm: Attends meetings on societal issues
 
 8pm: Watches TV shows
 
 9pm: Light dinner
 
 10pm: Goes to bed
 
