PUNE: The   to standard XI in the   colleges is set to begin, parents are on high alert and students who gave their   exams could be feeling   for the results to be announced and their colleges to be confirmed.

 The first step in this process is the booklet containing information for the admission process which was accessed by TOI on Monday from the deputy director of education, Pune division.
 
 The online form-filling process will start on May 25.The admissions is through a centralized online process.There will be a government resolution declaring the fees for all aided colleges.
 
 However, a cursory look clearly shows a hike in fees by many unaided colleges.
 
 Podar International School, Ambegaon has probably the highest fees. The college, according to the information given by the deputy director of education, Pune division, is starting its first batch in 2017-18 academic year and has posted its fees at Rs 82,375 for a year.The college can take 200 students for the science stream and 100 in the commerce stream.
 
 “We had told the college to decrease the fees as it should be affordable, but they are a new college and their authorities said they will provide world-class infrastructure which would require that amount of fees, especially since they are permanently unaided,“ Minakshi Raut, assistant deputy director for education, Pune division, told TOI.
 
 Raut advised students to check the fees along with the cut-off marks for the previous year before posting their preferences while filling up their forms. “The   says that a college can increase the fees only 15% in two years. Since Podar is a new college, they have already increased their fees. If any parent protests, then we will send the matter to the fee regulation committee for advice,“ Raut added.
 
 Rewachand Bhojwani Foundation's Junior College of arts, science and commerce posted its cut-off marks for admission at 480 marks out of 500 last year which makes it among the top colleges, above Fergusson College which had a cut-off of 472 marks.
 
 However, the data uploaded on the website was incomplete as many prominent colleges were not reflec ted. Since the preliminary data given by the deputy director's office was unclear, the cut-off marks for Laxmanrao Apte Prashala and City Pride in Nigdi, which topped the list last year, could not be verified.
 
 “The colleges have uploaded the data themselves. The booklet will be uploaded soon on the website and if people have any issues about the cut-off marks, we will crosscheck it,“ Raut told TOI.
 
