THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It is   and it grows at intimidating heights. If these   you from   to   from the tree, the   might soon help you out with a machine. 

 In addition to the course-linked academic projects, the university has recently invited applications from students of engineering colleges affiliated with it for developing an equipment that would help people pluck jackfruits-the largest known treeborne fruit. The project attains more significance at a time when the state agriculture department has been taking steps to set up agro parks for the production and promotion of jackfruit-based value added products.
 
 "We have received as many as 127 applications from students in various engineering colleges in response to the socially-relevant project for which we have invited proposals for the first time. Of these, we have shortlisted 24 proposals. Students have been asked to present their ideas before a four-member panel of engineering experts on May 15," said KTU's research director S Sreekumar.
 
 The experts, on the basis of their evaluation of the presentation, would choose a few feasible project proposals for the final round, he said. 
 
 If the panel gets convinced about the utility and commercial viability of any of the proposal, it would become eligible for Rs 50,000 the university has announced for the equipment development. 
 
 The university has specified that the machine should be able to pluck jackfruits up to 30kg at a maximum height of 10 meters and bring them to the ground without damaging them. Ease to use, efficiency, safety and affordability are some of the key factors to be kept in mind while venturing to develop such a socially relevant equipment. 
 
 It is common to see ripe jackfruits, which have fallen off from the trees, lying abandoned in the ground. Many people find it difficult to pluck them at the right time, university authorities said.
 
 Agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar said the government would whole-heartedly support the project if the university becomes successful in developing a safe, sturdy and effective equipment. 
 
 "The agriculture department is ready to partner with the university for the development of the equipment. The department is ready to provide additional financial aid for the project. If it turns successful, the government is ready to take up the promotion and sales of the equipment through Agro Industries Corporation," the minister said. 
 
