With all the talk from ministers about the western ways of women being responsible for them being targets of molestation, here comes another shocker. On the morning of January 6 — less than a week after the   assault — a 23-year-old burqa-clad woman was injured when she was beaten and bitten in a failed rape attempt in KG Halli. As has become the norm, no one came to the woman’s rescue, even as she shouted for help. Her attacker walked away — casually that too, as if nothing had happened — when dogs in the area began barking. All of this was captured on   camera, which has, off late, been bringing incidents of sexual assault from India’s streets on to our screens — incidents that would otherwise be read about and forgotten.

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 A woman was molested in the wee hours of January 1 in Kammanahalli by two bike-borne men. The victim was walking down the lane of her house when the duo turned towards her, and one of them attacked and molested her. He then dragged her towards the bike, even as she put up a fight and tried to flee. The footage — captured by a CCTV camera installed at the house of the 
 victim’s neighbour — shows the victim thrown on the road after escaping from her attackers even as some onlookers watched from a distance.
 
  
  
 
 On October 12, 2013, a college student was sexually harassed on the Metro by four men who made lewd remarks and gestures. The CCTV video from the Metro’s cameras also showed the girl and another woman calling out to a guard at a station, but he didn’t move. Metro authorities later said that law and order was the police’s responsibility, and that they can only assist by providing CCTV footage.
 
  
  
 
 Bengalureans staged a silent   — Touch Me Not — against the attacks on women by forming a human chain in front of Vidhana Soudha on Saturday. It was, however, cut short after policemen asked them to disperse as they did not have permission to stage a protest there. This was one among of the many events that were planned on Saturday.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
