NEW DELHI: A high-level committee has recommended a new institutional framework for homoeopathy and Ayurveda in India, continuing with its drive to streamline the country’s medical system.
 
  This comes close on the heels of the NITI Aayog-led panel’s proposal to replace the   by a National Medical Commission.
  
  The committee chaired by   vice chairman   has proposed that the Indian Medicine Central Council (IMCC) Act, 1970 and Homoeopathy Central Council (HCC) Act, 1973 be replaced by two new Acts.
  
  The committee has said that statutory bodies governing the education system have failed to bring in competent and qualified persons based on merit due to lack of transparency.
  
  “We propose that a National Commission for Indian Systems of Medicine (NCISM) replace the Central Council of Indian Medicine with the new body having a markedly different structure and governance system,” said the preliminary report of the committee on the reform of the Indian Medicine Central Council Act 1970 and Homoeopathy Central Council Act, 1973. “Similarly, the   ( ) should replace the Central Council of Homoeopathy.”
  
  ET had first reported in February that the committee may propose two separate new and transparent institutions to replace the existing institutions governing education in   and Ayurveda.
  
  The government had in August last year constituted a committee to examine all aspects of the Indian Medicine Central Council (IMCC) Act, 1970 and Homoeopathy Central Council (HCC) Act, 1973 and suggested reforms leading to improved outcomes in education pertaining to the Indian Systems of Medicine and Homoeopathy in India.
  
  The four-member committee included PK Mishra, additional principal secretary to Prime Minister; Amitabh Kant, CEO of NITI Aayog; and Ajit M Sharan, secretary, ministry of AYUSH.
  
  “Regulators of highest standards of professional integrity and excellence must be appointed through an independent and a transparent selection process by a broadbased search committee,” the committee said, pointing out that the current electoral process of appointing regulators is inherently saddled with compromises and attracts professionals who may not be best suited for the task at hand.
  
  The Aayog has put up the draft bills on the website for stakeholder comments, following which the two bills will be finalised and sent for Cabinet’s approval.
  
  “The National Commission for Indian Systems of Medicine (NCISM) will be the policy-making body for medical education in the area of Indian Systems of Medicine. It shall comprise a chairperson, thirteen ex-officio members and fourteen part-time members,” the committee suggested.
  
  Besides, the committee proposed setting up of an advisory council for Indian systems of medicine and an advisory council for homoeopathy having representation from states and union territories to articulate the national agenda for education in these areas.
  
  CCH, a statutory apex body under the health ministry, was set up by the government in 1973 to monitor homeopathy education in India. This means any institution desiring to grant a qualification in homeopathy is required to apply to CCH, which prescribes course curriculum and maintains central registers of homoeopaths.
  
  Similarly, CCIM, a statutory body under department of AYUSH in health ministry, was set up in 1971.
