PANAJI: The High Court of Bombay at Goa on Tuesday directed the crime branch of the Goa police to file a murder case in the mysterious death of social activist   in November 2015. Additionally, the crime branch has also been directed to file a status report every three months, till the investigation is completed.
 
  Special public prosecutor in the high court   told TOI that the court has directed the crime branch to register a first information report (FIR) in the   death case as per the complaint file by the deceased’s brother, Mario Dias, and investigate accordingly.
  
  
  The court has not set aside the investigation conducted by the crime branch under section 174 of the CrPC, he added.
  
  Bismarque’ friends had approached the court to get the case transferred to the   ( ). They had also sought for a FIR to be registered to bring out the truth behind the death.
  
  “This order is the victory of Bismarque's supporters, disciples, followers and lovers. It is also a tight slap to the police department in particular, and the government in general, who wanted to bury the case under the name of accidental death due to drowning. Out heartiest thanks to our team of advocates, Subodh Kantak, Chaitanya Padgaonkar, Shriniwas Khalap and   for their tireless efforts, which lead to our victory,” one of the petitioners Sudeep Dalvi said after the court order.
  
  On November 6, 2015, Bismarque went missing after he went for a swim at night along with two boys from St Estevam. Next day, his body was found floating in the Mandovi river, near Cupa at St Estevam island. Dias was last seen at the Babal sluice gate, a water body on the north-eastern part of the St Estevam island along the Mandovi river.
  
  Police claimed the death was due to drowning, but Bismarque’s friends, family and some social activities refused to accept this version. They alleged that the Old Goa police did not carry out a proper investigation and asked that the case be transferred to the crime branch.
  
  Following the direction of then chief minister  , the case was transferred to the crime branch, who concluded after investigation that there was no foul play and that death was due to drowning, and closed the case.
