We Are Still A Rent-Seeking Culture In Which People Want To Prosper, But Not Through Innovations, Says Professor  , The Man Behind Shodhyatras

  
 
 
 A In 1980, I met a farmer in Haryana who knew many ecological indicators, which could help in dealing with future prospects of crops. In 1986-87, as an international scholar I went to Bangladesh. People there were dying in cyclones every year, but the spirit for innovation was robust. It was then that I asked myself about what returns the people whose innovations were used ever received. To resolve this gap, the Honey Bee network was born with the aim to recognize innovative people and their efforts. Later,   came in 1993, GIAN in 1997 and Shodhyatras began 20 years ago and completed an entire round of country last year.
 
 
 
 
 A Most of those products are area specific. We did not find   to take innovations to the next level. In many cases, we realized that innovators could not be good entrepreneurs because an innovator could not make two things alike, and the consumer market needs batch-by-batch consistency. So we focused on linking innovators with entrepreneurs.
 
 
 
 
 AYes it should be there. New ways of doing things and imagining the world is absent in our businesses. We do not have a place for innovation in public procurement. Putting such simple things in the government’s mind is difficult, but I am optimistic it will happen. We are still a rent-seeking culture where people want to prosper by other means, but not through innovations.
 
 
 
 
 AI have completed 36 years here. The course on   was one in high demand. Students could see the advantage of frugal innovation. The world today discusses about frugal economics, but my students were discussing it many years ago. Students at IIM-A always worked enthusiastically with me.
 
 
 
 
 AI am going to set up an academy called AASTIK (Academy for Augmenting Sustainable Technological Innovations and Traditional Knowledge) to provide identity to scholars and innovators. I will work with kids of government schools in research, because they are able to solve problems that we cannot. I will also write books and will keep walking, increase number of Shodh Yatras from existing two to perhaps six. Hopefully, I will also groom young minds, those of our future leaders, who would be more inclusive in their personal lives, more forgiving and more compassionate. Nowadays, we hear we are a large country with a small heart. This cannot continue. I am confident we will be able to change it. No matter the strength of those considered powerful. They think that they will change the character of our country. They will not be able to do so. Because, we remain secular at heart, and have a forgiving nation. I am convinced that we need a strong force that will restore the thought that your idea matters not your identity.
 
 (As told to Ashish Chauhan)
 
