Indore: Many areas of the city will continue to face a water shortage due to electrical faults at Jalood pumping station. The fault again affected various parts of the city on Saturday after the pumps were shut for two hours.

 Areas like Bhanwarkuan, Subash Chowk, Sadar Bazar, Yeshwant Nagar, Krishi Nagar and Scheme Number 74 faced a water crisis.
 
 This is the third time in the last one month that electrical faults have developed in the   line. The last incident took place only a week ago and it continued for three days.
 
 “We are trying to ensure such faults do not take place again. In areas affected by the water supply, we supplied water through tankers,” said Balram Verma, head of water works department of IMC.
 
 Residents of most areas said that while the civic body supplied water through tankers, the supply was irregular.
 
 The civic body’s claims to provide an 180 MLD (million litres per day) water has not fulfilled. Even after mayor Malini Gaud announced supply in the city will increase by the mentioned amount by May 15, sources in IMC’s water works department confirmed a lot of work was left at Jalood pumping station and the deadline will not be met.
 
 Department sources said the supply may increase by the month end. “It is true work has been delayed. We expect we will be able to supply more by May 25,” said Balram Verma, head of water works department.
 
 Verma could not clearly explain reasons behind the delay. “The high temperature and small technical issues have led to the delay,” Verma said. During her visit to Jalood station on March 19, Gaud announced that work to install new pumps was in full swing and the city will get 540 MLD of water.
 
 There are two pumps at Jalood pumping station. Water from the river is first stored in a well and then pumped out. IMC has constructed a new well for the pumps. It is deeper than the previous one and will ensure more water can be pumped out in less time. The other pumps will also be shifted to the new well.
 
 
