NAGPUR:   Commercial Vehicle India Private Limited’s (SCVIPL’s) plan to ply 55   in the city will have to wait for some more time as Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organization (PESO) is yet to give the green signal for ethanol filling station for these buses.

 Shivaji Jagtap, transport manager of   (NMC), told TOI that nod from PESO was expected soon. “We will not impose any fine on Scania for the delay because as per our conditions,   was to help it in getting necessary permits,” he said.
 
 NMC had been selected by the central government to run 55 green buses. It had floated expressions of interest (EoIs) for running the buses which was bagged by Scania. The company announced its plans to run 55 ethanol-fired air-conditioned buses in April 2016. However, the plans have remained on paper only. It has been running a single green bus between RBI Square and Khapri since August 2014.
 
 The road for the green buses has been one full of hurdles. NMC thrice floated expression of interest (EoI) for appointing an operator to run green buses, but it received a dismal response. The civic body received only four applications. Shockingly, there was no response in the first EoI while for the second bid, two companies had shown interest. As they had no experience to run city bus services, the civic body called for another EoI.
 
 The third time, the NMC invited tenders at the national level and received two applicants — Scania and a Pune-based travel firm Travel Time Car Rental Private Limited. Scania was chosen for the job.
 
 After a lot of delays, NMC announced that the green buses would run from November 15, 2016. However, the centre had not included ethanol-run buses in the Central Motor Vehicle Rules at that time. The Nagpur regional transport office (RTO) advised NMC to get approval from the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) and a certificate from a testing agency. Now, NMC is waiting from a nod from PESO for the ethanol filling station.
 
 In general, NMC’s city bus service record has been dismal. It had appointed   (VNIP) to run the city bus service in 2007 but the operator’s services were very poor leading to termination of its contract in 2016. 
 
