MUMBAI: During the course of his illustrious life, cricket great   has been bestowed with many awards. This, however, is an honour which should make the batting legend's chest swell with pride. In a first for the former opener, next month, the 68-year-old will inaugurate a newly built stadium named after him in  ,  , in the US. The venue will be called the  .

 The `Little Master' will thus join the club of West Indians   (  in Anituga) and   (  in Gros Islet, St Lucia), as cricketers who've grounds named after them. The difference here is that Richards and Sammy have stadiums located in their hometown, while the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai, Gavaskar's ‘home,' has a stand named after the iconic opening batsman.
 
 “It's a wonderful honour to have a ground named after you especially in a country where cricket is not the premier sport,” an elated Gavaskar told TOI on Tuesday . Apparently , the entire project is being spearheaded by Kentucky-based Jai Bokey , a former employee of sports marketing company Professional Management Group.
 
 With the International Cricket Council (ICC) having suspended the membership of the USA Cricket Association (USACA) in 2015, cricket in the US has suffered a big setback.
 
 Though India and New Zealand did play a few T20 Internationals against the West Indies in Florida, it isn't clear how many international games will be played at the venue. The development, though, highlights the popularity of Gavaskar across the globe.
 
 
 
 
 The concept of naming stadiums after sportspersons is alien to India, where grounds are named mostly named after politicians. Does `Sunny' think that we should start naming cricket stadiums after sportspersons in India? “While it is always preferable to have sports facilities named after sportspersons, there are plenty of other non-sportspersons who make a contribution to the growth, development and betterment of sports so the grounds can be named after them too, but yes ideally , grounds should be named after those who have made a contribution to sports,” said Gavaskar.
 
 “However, once the ground is named after an individual there should not be any sponsor's name before or after it, for that completely dilutes the honour of naming the ground after the person,” he felt.
 
 
