KOLHAPUR: A 52-year-old man from Baramati allegedly   and a driver on Thursday by telling to  , saying it had been blessed by a  . While his son died after drinking the liquid, the other five have been admitted to a government hospital in Satara.

 The man, Vishnu Chavan, gave a bottle of the liquid to his family members and told them to drink it only after taking ‘darshan’ of goddess Kaleshwari at Mandhardevi in Wai taluka. “Chavan, who has been arrested, did not accompany his family members to the temple. He asked them to drink the liquid after the darshan, wait for an hour at the temple and return home. He told them that drinking the liquid would free them of all their problems,” Wai police inspector Vinayak Vetal said.
 
 Vetal said Chavan is a contractor who had constructed some houses in Baramati. “However, he had been running losses since the last six months. He decided to eliminate his family and said he was also planning to take his own life. We will investigate the case in details after seeking his custody from the court on Friday,” he said.
 
 Vetal said five members of Chavan’s family went to the temple in a private vehicle. “The family members and the driver drank the liquid as told by Chavan. While they were returning to Baramati, Chavan’s son Swapnil (25) began feeling uneasy and asked the driver to take him to a nearby hospital. While they were on their way to a hospital in Wai, all of them started feeling uneasy. The driver took them to the government hospital in Wai, where Swapnil was declared brought dead. Soon, the driver also complained of uneasiness following which all of them were taken to the government hospital in Satara,” he said.
 
 Chavan’s mother Muktabai (68), wife Sunita (45), daughters Pratiksha (21) and Trupti (16), and the driver, Bhimsen Jadhav are taking treatment at the hospital.
 
 Vetal said they would question Chavan to know what he had mixed in the liqud. “The family members have told us that they had not eaten anything before consuming the liquid as Chavan had told them to observe a fast,” he added.
 
 
