CHENNAI: Can there be multiple correct answers to a single question in an exam? The ‘correct’ answer may not necessarily be in the notes dictated to a student but in the way the question is perceived. Based on this line of thinking,   has come up with a personalised online learning assessment solution called ‘Kognify’. The platform, that uses artificial intelligence to understand the parameters of a question, looks at how performance of individual students can be assessed by the way each child understands and approaches a problem.

 The school has tied up with professors from Chennai Mathematical Institute to help write algorithms to identify the most important parameters that help students answer correctly or incorrectly.   will help teachers redesign tasks in a classroom by ascertaining the learner’s knowledge and skill levels. Following this, individualised worksheets are designed for every learner to work out deliberately and continuously. The approach, which involves artificial intelligence, cognitive and educational psychology, and data science, is aimed at identifying learning gaps and their correlations so that suitable recommendations can be made to the learner.
 
 Naveen  , director of HLC International School, said while most children are told that they lacked competency in a topic, there was not enough assessment to understand whether the child was struggling with a particular part of the topic or was labelled as poor because he did not answer in a manner similar to the rest of the class. 
 
 Competencies are interdisciplinary and not restricted to a subject, Mahesh said. "We have been able to improve performance by personalising the work students do, especially through deliberate practice," Mahesh said. "Teachers in classrooms may give a generic homework, but they cannot give different types of questions to all students because of time constraints. But in this case [Kognify], questions and answers are chosen by the platform," he said.
 
 Fifty schools are signing up for a three-month-long pilot project starting from October. Currently, the focus is on Cambridge schools. Institutions can add their own questions and personalised homework. Omega International, Vael’s Billabong International School and   are some of the schools from   which will try out the assessment system. Every day for three months, these schools will try to identify the biggest parameters in learning.
 
 R Visalakshi, president of Private Schools Association, said such a platform can help children go through the actual process of learning and application rather than focussing on accumulation of knowledge. "Children have become used to memorising. This may be the next step required in learning. But this will take time," she said.
 
