NEW DELHI: Investigations into the   of a five-year-old boy have revealed that the abductor had been inspired by a similar crime involving a doctor that had taken place in Preet Vihar a few days ago. Two days after getting kidnapped, the boy was rescued from a rented one-room flat in northeast Delhi’s  . The abductor, Asadul Islam (36), and his wife, Riksona, have been arrested.

 Islam told the cops that he decided to kidnap the boy and seek a huge   as he knew his father worked in  .
 
 The kidnapping took place when the boy’s mother left him alone at home and went to a nearby market. When she returned, she found the main door of the house ajar. Assuming that her son must have gone out to play, she started chatting with a friend. Soon, she noticed her son’s friends playing outside, but the boy was nowhere to be seen.
 
 She panicked and when she went inside her house, she saw things scattered all over the floor. She then started a frantic search for her son in the locality. Soon, she received a call from the kidnapper from an unknown number.
 
 “I dropped the phone in shock after getting the call. When the kidnapper did not hear my voice for some time, he called me back and demanded a ransom of Rs 8 lakh. He warned me not to get in touch with the police and said if I failed to pay the ransom my son would be killed,” the woman told the cops.
 
 An FIR was registered at   police station. “A team led by ACP Hareshwar V Swamy took up investigations,” said DCP (Shahdara) Nupur Prasad.
 
 When the boy’s mother started getting the ransom calls frequently, she got worried and started making arrangements for the money. She gathered Rs 3 lakh and informed the kidnapper about it.
 
 A police team followed the woman when she was asked to drop the ransom. The kidnapper directed her to board an auto rickshaw and guided her where she had to make the drop. He kept asking her to change the mode of transport to throw anyone following her off the trail. All this while, the cops tracked the calls and movements of the woman.
 
 The kidnapper finally told the woman to drop the ransom near Surya Nagar side of Apsara Border Bridge. When the kidnapper came to collect the money from under the bridge, the cops chased him but he ran away into the woods behind Surya Nagar. He was soon fished out and arrested.
 
 On interrogation, he gave the cops the address where he had kept the boy locked up. The accused said that he planned the kidnapping as he was facing a huge financial crisis. “The ransom money has been recovered,” the DCP added.
 
