NEW DELHI: Vesting Parliament with the power to decide on   for a community can have interesting  , possibly the reason why the Modi government intends to move in that direction.

 The government has announced it will junk the present process of a simple cabinet decision bestowing   on a community and will shift the mandate to Parliament like for the list of  . The new process will start with the creation of the proposed National Commission for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes.
 
 Top domain expert PS Krishnan welcomed the proposed change as harbinger of transparency. “Anything that goes to Parliament is better than what is disposed of in offices. There will be greater scrutiny. If something is bad, there will be some voice against it.”
 
 However, many see a political sub-plot in the change in the wake of a clamour for OBC status from socially strong groups like Jats, Kapus, Patels.
 
 The demands have landed the ruling BJP in a piquant situation.
 
 Existing OBCs, especially the weaker among them, are against the inclusion of strong communities in the OBC list, fearing the latter would eat into their share of reservation benefits.
 
 While accepting the demand of strong groups would raise the ire of existing backward castes, opposing it risks inviting paralysing agitations as by Patels in Gujarat and Jats in Haryana and north India. To the ruling party’s consternation, its political rivals stand to benefit by fanning these partisan fires.
 
 The antagonism has repeatedly raised fears of political costs for the Centre, making a decision a tightrope, virtually impossible to pull off.
 
 But observers believe the political risk would diminish if Parliament is entrusted with the task of deciding on the OBC status for a community.
 
 It will force the entire political spectrum to take a categorical stance on the proposal, and negate the advantage that opposition outfits enjoy by sitting on the fence to harvest the anger of agitated communities.
 
 The process will end up apportioning the blame for an unpopular decision across parties and could buffer the Centre from the ire of groups rubbed the wrong way by the outcome.
 
 After the creation of the new commission, the first test would come with a decision on the plea of Jats for OBC status. Perpetually in the agitation mode but actively opposed by communities presently classified as backward, the government may prefer to let the parliament decide on the issue.
 
 With rivals Congress, INLD, SP among others having to take a stand, BJP may look to minimise its losses for an unpopular decision.
 
