Shahid Kapoor's wife   is planning a birthday party that won't disrupt the  's diet.

 Six days ahead of  's 36th birthday, his wife Mira Rajput is hosting a bash on February 19 at their Juhu apartment and everyone, from the actor's ' ' co-stars Saif Ali Khan and Kangana Ranaut, to the Bachchans, have been invited.
 
  
  
  As a shout-out to the teetotaler birthday boy, the alcohol-free party will serve detox shots made of celery, kale, carrot, cucumber and kiwi, alongside other healthy treats. 
 
 An insider informed,"Shahid has been extremely focused on his fitness regime for his look as Raja Rawal Ratan Singh in  's Padmavati. So the celebrations will dish out hors d'oeuvres made of super foods, salads, smoothies and guilt-free desserts. Mira is personally working on the menu."
 
 Meanwhile, the actor is gearing up for the release of  's 'Rangoon', one of the biggest films of the year, apart from 'Padmavati'. It was an arduous shoot in Arunachal Pradesh. "We shot in jungles and locations which had no electricity, mobile networks, drinking water or even people. We often got lost because there were no roads. The terrain was challenging, as were the living conditions. But every film with Vishal sir is a journey because he doesn't make easy films.Even during Haider in Kashmir we ventured into places considered unsafe but found a lot of support from the locals." 
 
 Shahid reminisced at the cover launch of Filmfare's special issue along with Alia Bhatt and Diljit Dosanjh.
 
 'Padmavati', suffered a roadblock when a fringe group attacked the sets in Jaipur last month and roughed up Bhansali. Shooting has been on hold since. Is he returning to work soon? He informed, "All I know at this point is that they are resuming the shoot soon and I'll be joining them next month. This month I will only be promoting Rangoon."
 
 On Wednesday, after keeping her under wraps since her birth on August 26, Shahid shared his daughter Misha' picture on Instagram, ahead of his February 25 birthday. He admits that life has changed since his baby arrived. "I don't think anybody ever wants to feel old, especially actors, but my wife and family tell me that I act older than my years. A new phase in life has started. When that happens, you feel differently about things, be it marriage or your baby or the choices I am making. I am enjoying this new phase of life," the actor beamed.
 
  
  
  
  
