Ajay.Sura@timesgroup.com

 Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday asked the Haryana government to explain its position on a plea against illegal operation of crusher zone adjoining national highway 22 on Panchkula-Shimla and Burj Kotian zone in Chandimandir area.
 
 A division bench comprising Justice S S Saron and Justice Avneesh Jhingan has sought the state’s response to the petition filed by Ram Kumar Shokeen and several other residents of Amravati Enclave and DLF Valley in Pinjore-Kalka urban complex near Panchkula.
 
 Giving a copy of the petition to the counsel for the Haryana government, the bench asked him to clarify state government’s stand on the contentions raised by the petitioners. The matter has been fixed for August 3 for further hearing.
 
 The petitioners have attached the series of news reports carried by The Times of India in which problems of the local residents on account of pollution emanating from these crushing zones were highlighted in these columns in February this year.
 
 The main grouse of the petitioners was against the state government‘s inability to stop 15 stone crusher units, which alleged to have been running illegally in the area of Tanda, Chandimandir, Surajpur and Rampur Seuri villages near their housing complexes.
 
 It was further stated that permission to run the stone crushing units in present location is against rules as these units have been established for operating within limits of the Panchkula municipal corporation (MC) and 1.5 km of national highway creating hurdles in the traffic and increasing the pollution in the area.
 
 The petitioners told the court that they are residing in the vicinity of stone crushing units and are getting affected with some chronic diseases due to the sand particles mixing in the air due to crushing process.
 
 Alleging that the allotment and notification of these stone crusher zones is against the rules framed through two notifications, issued in December 1997 and October 1998, the petitioners have sought directions for an inquiry into the deep nexus between the authorities of various departments of the state government dealing with these crushers and the owners of these units. Further directions have also been sought to probe the nexus between the officials of the National Highway Authority of India and the owners of crushing zone for allegedly running the units in violations of norms and regulations.
 
 Earlier, the residents of these areas had also written to the Haryana Pollution Control Board informing about various medical problems faced by them. They have been alleging that dust particles from these crushers are causing further respiratory diseases among people living in the area. “Chronic bronchitis and airway obstruction are as result of long term exposure to these air pollutants that also cause allergenic alveolitis in young children. Exposures to dust can lower lung respiration resulting in infections like tuberculosis. Noise caused by these crusher effects humans slowly and finally can cause noise induced hearing loss and permanent deafness,” a medical report attached with the complaints had mentioned.
 
 The principal of the school located inside the Amravati Enclave had also complained that the dust particles from crushers are causing respiratory problems among children.
 
 
