Ludhiana: A one-and-a half-year-old boy died allegedly after being administered polio drops by Asha workers on Thursday. The bereaved family, which belonged to Agra, was visiting relatives at Fauji Mohalla. The incident took place between 12 and 1pm, when two Asha workers gave him polio drops. The child, Aditya Kumar, was said to have been asleep and was woken up specifically to have the drops. After some time, he frothed at the mouth and was rushed to Krishna Hospital, where he died. 

 Sources said 20 other children received drops from the same vial and 28 children of the same area were given drops by Asha workers. Of these, five children live in street number 3 in Fauji Mohalla. Ravinder Kumar, father of the deceased, said, “My son was sleeping when two women came saying they were angadwadi workers and forcefully administered drops to my son. In fact, he was sleeping and the workers woke him up to give him the drops. After an hour, his health deteriorated all of a sudden and we took him to Krishna Hospital, where he died. Either wrong medicine was given or it was given the wrong way.” 
 
 Following the child’s death, the family members staged a protest outside their home, demanding an inquiry. “We have reported the matter to the police and want an inquiry,” Ravinder said. 
 
 Sangeeta, the child’s mother said, “We did not want Asha workers to give him drops, but they did it forcefully.” Parents have filed a police complaint, but no FIR has been registered yet.
 
 Surinder Chopra from Model Town police station said, “Action will be taken after we get the child’s post-mortem report. The body has been kept in the civil hospital.” 
 
 Dr Jasbir Singh, district immunization officer, said, “There is no connection between polio drops and the child’s death. Such an incident has never been reported ever since the pulse polio drive started in 1995. Twenty other children were administered drops from the same vial and they are doing fine.” 
 
 Civil surgeon Hardeep Singh Ghai said, “Post-mortem will be done as the protocol says the reason for death has to be found. It is possible that polio drops did not cause the death and the child was sick earlier. On being asked if a sick child already on a dose of medicines or antibiotic can be given polio drops, he replied in the affirmative. 
 
 More than 3,95,000 children aged up to five years will be administered polio drops under the drive, which started on September 17.
 
 
