NAGPUR: National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri), Institute of Science, and Institute of Forensic Science (IFS), Nagpur, Waste-to-Energy Research and Technology Council (WTERT), in association with Swacch Nagpur a non-governmental organization and Mohota Alumni Association are jointly organizing a workshop to sensitize the community about the  .

 The workshop will begin at 9 am on April 6 at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines. The interactive workshop will raise the concerns and problems faced by the community while managing waste. The issues will be later discussed in an international conference on ‘Integrated Solid Waste Management Practices in Developing Countries’ on April 11 and 12 at Neeri.
 
 “Through this workshop we want to sensitize the society and raise their problems while managing the waste and try to spread awareness in the city,” said Sujata Deo, convener of the programme, in a press conference on Monday.
 
 The workshop will be open for all and citizens can raise their concerns with the experts. Experts from every facets of waste treatment will be addressing the workshop. Ramnath Sonawane, additional commissioner of  , Rakesh Kumar, director CSIR-NEERI, Sudhir Paliwal, director MAHAGAMS, Nagpur and many other experts will deliver lectures. “Many such workshops take place but the impact is never seen, so in this pre-conference workshop we want citizens to participate to increase its impact,” Deo added.
 
 Topics like waste management, Ewaste, biomedical waste, sanitary napkins, nirmalya composting will be discussed. Corporators, experts and citizens will also take part. The main focus will be on avoiding incidents like Bhandewadi dumping yard fire and to encourage people to collect the dry and wet garbage separately. More than 15 NGO’s from the city working in waste management will also take part. The workshop will be inaugurated by Mayor Nanda Jichkar. Anup Kumar, divisional commissioner, AD Sawant, president of WTERT, Jairam Khobragade, director of IFS, will also be present.
 
