TAMKUHIRAJ (KUSHINAGAR): At the crowded Tarya bazaar chauraha in Tamkuhiraj Vidhan Sabha constituency of   on Tuesday,   alias ‘Balti Baba’, told voters in his public meeting, “You voted for Modiji’s name once and made him the PM, now vote for his work and make BJP the ruling party in UP.” Being a BJP candidate, Mishra’s appeal sounds like that of any other candidate in the constituency, enumerating his party’s work and decrying that of the opponents. 

 With a saffron ‘gamchha’ around his neck, at the age of 70, he and his election paraphernalia including the loading van with a mike and speaker and a group of supporters who clap at every ‘high-note’ of his election speech, are busy with last-leg campaigning with hardly a minute to spare. 
 
 The hoi polloi at his election meeting identify him more as ‘Balti Baba’ than Jagdish Mishra, his real name. People have several of stories to tell on Balti Baba’s magical prowess. “If you wish to eat mithai from Kolkata,   can get it for you while sitting here in Kushinagar. Not only that, he would even get you the receipt from the mithai shop in Kolkata from his bucket,” said Kailash Singh Rathore, a local at Mishra’s ‘jan-sabha’. 
 
 And given the number of VIP visitors who keep calling on him, Mishra can also be called a political counsellor. Leaders like Late Bhairon Singh Shekhawat and Bhajan Lal used to seek advice from Balti Baba, when in political trouble.
 
 However, today Mishra tries to play down the moniker that he has earned for his ‘magical’ (tantrik) deeds. “Kewal ek upnaam hai (it’s only a pet name)”, he said. Mishra has VIP visitors’ calling on him not only from UP, but neighbouring states as well. “He was given the name Balti Baba by Late Indira Gandhi madamji,” said Madan Tiwari, Mishra’s political manager for last 21 years. “He used to draw out a ‘parchi’ (chit) from the bucket and that fulfilled people’s wish or had a way to make them achieve the intended,” said Tiwari.
 
 Chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and his MP wife, Dimple Yadav, are Mishra’s “kaanphukwa shishya” (disciples whom Mishra has delivered guru-mantra in their ears). BJP president Amit Shah is the recent one to have joined Balti Baba’s list of followers. “It’s for the likes of Shah and others only that baba now performs his tantra-vidya. He does not get into tantra-mantra that often now,” said Tiwari. It’s said Mishra left his home in Deoria district of UP at the age of nine. He got initiated into occult at a very early age. 
 
 “I have been an MLA from Faazilnagar constituency in 2002, but after delimitation about 75 booths of Faazilnagar were transferred to Tamkuhiraj, hence, I chose to contest from here,” said Mishra. He briefly sums up issues he is fighting for, “Ganna (worries of cane farmers), Gandak (changing course of river Gandak) and Goonda (deteriorating law and order).” 
 
 Mishra has his proximity known to BJP veterans like Murli Manohar Joshi. His election pamphlet has Joshi’s photo, though smaller in size than of Modi, but, among his own voters, he might have assumed the image of a ‘distanced’ leader. “His connect with people is not that of everyday but very formal and rare,” said Tribhuvan Singh, a local. 
 
