HYDERABAD: It was launched with much fanfare and promises of change in the way women travel around the city, but less than two years down the line the   initiative seems to have fallen flat. Only seven cabs are in operation now at the city airport and these are hardly found when needed.

 When launched in November 2015, there were 10 cabs. Now, the seven cabs that still function take on less than 20 trips a day, according to data available with the Cyberabad traffic police. 
 
 “While two cabs did not function since the beginning, one cab has not been running since the past six months, bringing the remaining total to seven,” said A R Srinivas, deputy commissioner of police (Traffic), Cyberabad.
 
 Women commuters in the city feel that more vehicles should be added to the She Cab fleet. “In addition, the all-women cab service must start operating within the city as well so that women can easily avail them on the road. An app can be developed for the same,” said  , a commuter. 
 
 The drivers of the cabs, however, have a different story to tell and are demanding a hike in fares to make ends meet. “After completing one trip, I have to drive all the way back to the airport in order to get another customer. The rates are fixed as per the destinations. For example, a trip between the airport and Gachibowli will cost Rs 600, while a ride to   may cost anywhere between Rs 700 and Rs 800. The fare does not account for the return journey, when the cab runs empty as customers can only be picked up from the airport,” said a driver of a She Cab on condition of anonymity.
 
 These cabbies too admit that several women passengers at the airport have spoken to them about the need for more such cabs. Passengers always complain about the waiting time and the non-availability of the cabs most of the time.
 
 “Single women travellers, for whom She Cabs were mainly designed, regularly complain about the long waiting period for a cab and often ask me why there are only a handful of such cabs at the airport,” said another woman driver, who operates between 8 pm and 8 am at the airport everyday.
 
