SALEM: Political parties and   were not happy with the  , saying it has only figures and no focus on projects and schemes.

 State secretary of the   for the Rights of all Types of Differently-abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) S Namburajan said there was no mention in the budget about the central government’s New Rights Act for the disabled and no allocations were made to implement the provisions of the new law.
 
 As per the New Rights Act, all the government buildings across the state should be equipped with ramps and disabled-friendly toilets in the next five years. “To implement this, we need huge funds. But, the budget failed to make any announcement in this regard,” he said.
 
 Namburajan pointed out that there was also no mention about issuing smart card to differently-abled in the state under the new law. He also came down heavily on the state government for providing false information to the Centre on the status of identity card issuance. “It recently told the Centre that it had issued identity cards to all the people of the state. But, finance minister D Jayakumar said in the budget that only 11.79 lakh identity cards had been issued in the state,” Namburajan said. 
 
 He, however, expressed happiness over increasing the monthly dole for leprosy persons from Rs 1000 to Rs 1500. 
 
 State president of Tamil Nadu Makkal Urimai Katchi (TMUK) Poomozhi said the budget did not have any long-term projects or schemes. “The good thing is that there aren’t any new taxes,” he said.
 
 He also welcomed allocation of Rs 1,200 crore for the   and also the provision of Rs 563 crore for the Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Programme. “Allocation of Rs 3,100 crore for improving road infrastructure in the state is also a welcoming measure,” Poomozhi said.
 
 General Secretary of Salem city chamber of commerce A Jayaseelan said though it seemed a well-balanced  , it has only figures and no focus on long-term plans and projects. “The finance minister did not mention anything about railway projects such as Palani-Erode in the budget. The central government had blamed the state government for not implementing the projects,” he said.
 
 
