MELGHAT: The story of   (54), a van majoor (forest labourer) guarding the dense forest frontiers in Melghat for past 30 years, is nothing less than an army jawan working in toughest conditions.

 Surajpal was recently awarded Sanctuary Asia   Service Award for unflinchingly patrolling his toughest beat Koktu in Gugamal forest division of   (MTR). For many, Koktu just seems to be a wild paradise, surviving there is not an easy task.
 
 Surajpal, who travels 50km to get ration, used to patrol on horseback, a practice he had to unfortunately given up after his horse Badal was killed by a tiger. Owing to poor financial condition, he couldn’t study beyond STD II, but yet, is a living encyclopedia. He has immense knowledge about flora and fauna and gathered most amazing stories over the years.
 
 Son of a ‘khansama’ (cook) working with MP forest   even now, Surajpal joined the department in 1988 as a tiger tracker with the help of his kin Raghu Padole, who worked as a mahout.
 
 “I was warned by Padole that it will not be an easy going in Koktu and asked me to think over it. I was desperate and was ready to accept any challenge to eke out a living. My first wife had died and the slur of my second wife deserting me owing to lowdown job in my home village Khamla (Betul) in MP distressed me and I decided to move to Koktu without giving any second thought,” says Surajpal.
 
 Surajpal used to get a monthly salary of Rs 555 for collecting information on tigers by patrolling on foot. It is not only about tracking tigers, he does multiple tasking like preparing food.
 
 “Koktu being completely inviolate and no human population within a radius of 50km, especially after relocation of villages, wild animal and tiger numbers have increased substantially here. You can even sight a tiger during day time,” he says.
 
 When asked about fears of living in a no-man’s land, Surajpal says Koktu is a heaven. “It is a bliss listening to the silence of forest. Yes there is always fear of animal attack but whenever I sense danger, I remember Lord Hanuman to gain courage,” he recalls.
 
 Another best part is that there is no bitching or fights for postings in Koktu as no one wants to join here. There are examples when people have even quit job after being posted here. 
 
 On New Year when Surajpal wanted to wish his dear ones, he walked 3km to Gugamal tower and climbed atop to get network.
 
 Recalling his most memorable incident near Gurgipati area between Bori and Koktu in June 1997, Surajpal says around 3pm while he was returning to the base camp he saw 10-12 dholes surrounding a huge palas tree.
 
 “I was mounted on Badal. As I neared the tree the dholes dispersed. As I passed, suddenly a branch head fell on me. I just looked up and saw a tiger atop. It sent chill down my spine and I was trembling. Gathering courage, I asked Badal to be fast. As I moved a few metres, the same tiger followed us. It trailed us for around a kilometre and vanished in dense jungles,” recollects Surajpal. 
 
 In another incident, he remembers how poachers had hunted a sambar in Jilangpati with the help of dogs. “We were three and they (poachers) were 25 to 30. We climbed a hillock and threw stones at them and finally we could nab three of them and locked them in a stable. It was rainy season and Koktu was cut off. After two days, when ACF arrived, we handed over the poachers to him,” recalled Surajpal. 
 
 Though Surajpal is opposed to opening Koktu for tourism, he feels existing road and quarters should be repaired so that it becomes convenient for patrolling, bring ration and give medical aid to the staff in case of emergency.
 
 Despite suffering personal and family tragedies as a result of staying in remote area, this brave man has only one wish — to retire from ‘heaven’ Koktu. “My family was really elevated when I received the award in Mumbai, where I visited for first time. They now say joining the forest department was right choice,” says Surajpal.
 
 
