Noida: Gejha is like any other village in Noida, but only till you set foot in it. Once the hour-long ride from the capital ends, an unlikely sound of modernity — the dribble of the   — greets the visitor.

 The basketball court on the premises of N E M Public school in Gejha is the training ground for 200 underprivileged kids, whose dreams soar beyond the basketball hoop they are aiming at for now. The confidence of these young trainees in the age group of five-15 stems from the dedication of their mentor and coach, Pradyut Voleti, at  .
 
 Founded in 2013, with just five kids and a makeshift basketball hoop, the academy today provides free basketball training to over 200 kids along with lessons in dance and English language. Voleti who has trained under Ganon Baker, a Nike skill development trainer and workout director, decided to bestow his talent on these young ballers.
 
 A usual day at the court starts at 3pm with beginners practising their skill of dribbling, passing, rebounding, shooting, doing planks, footwork, running and pounding. A group of girls in a makeshift classroom are watching a motivational video on Pat Summitt, the legendary women’s basketball coach.
 
 Anyone can join irrespective of age but they cannot be promoted to junior and senior level if they haven’t learnt the basics of passing, dribbling and shooting. “They have to earn it,” says Voleti. For overall development, the academy has provided for teachers who teach them maths, science and English. With lots of activities going on and off the court, these kids forget their everyday problems of abusive households. Almost all the kids come from a modest background where families rely on their daily labour to put food on the table.
 
 Despite having worn out shoes, and a tight budget where sometimes their parents are unable to afford school fees, Shaily Upadhya at just 12 has managed to beat all odds. She received a 100% 5-year scholarship at Shiv Nadar School in Noida.
 
 Varsha (13), with her sleeves rolled up bounces the basketball off the burning concrete court and shoots. A quick learner on and off the court, she has just won ‘student of the year’ at her school.
 
 The game has strengthened teamwork off the court as well. Arun (9), son of a press wallah, can be seen teaching three-lettered words to 12-year-old Ravina whose father runs a tobacco kiosk. Arun’s mother Vandana comes to the court to drop him every day taking a break from her ironing. “We are glad that our kids are engaged in something constructive and are not whiling away their hours. All of my three children come here to learn.” She said.
 
 Ranbir Singh Lohia, owner of the school, is an old man in his fifties and is happy how the attendance has escalated after the kids started training for the sport.
 
 An incredibly talented filmmaker Varun Tandon and a national award recipient saw the story and has filmed a documentary on the   project that chronicles the inspirational stories of how children living in an Indian village overcome hardships by taking up a sport and how every individual has the power to change the world for the better.
 
 A Mayo college alumnus, Voleti believes in giving these kids the best possible training. Coaches and players from all over the country visit Gejha to give motivational talks and teach them additional skills. 
 
 “If their potential is nurtured then these kids could get a chance to play at the district and national level,” says Voleti.
 
 
