The Right to Education (RTE) is being promoted by the state government in a big way but the facilitation process for parents is so tedious that often they have to wait for hours to get their queries resolved. The indifferent attitude of the official at the   facilitation centre in   no 11 was apparent on Friday when he did not turn up for duty at the appointed hour.
 
  Over 100 parents who came to the help centre had to return without resolution of their queries.  , one of the parents who reached the centre at 9.30 am on Friday, waited till 1 pm as there was no official on duty. “I have registered for a school for my ward and usually the information is given through an SMS. However, I have not been receiving any messages. I took leave from the office and waited for over four hours before returning. We have been given 10 days to make necessary changes in the schools allotted to our children.”
  
  Another parent, on condition of anonymity, said, “They could have informed us beforehand that the official will not be available on Friday. It’s unfortunate that officials take parents for granted. They are playing with education of our children.” Assistant Education Instructor ( )  , who has been assigned to the   help centre to deal with queries related to RTE, was absent from the centre the entire day. When asked to comment, he said: “I was assigned duty elsewhere. There was a programme of   going on at another venue and I was asked to be present there.
  
  So I had asked another person to be present at the help centre to make sure that the queries of parents are answered. No such incident (parents waiting for hours) took place.” An AEI is expected to reach the centre by 10 am and work till 5 pm. Navneet Mehta, District Education Officer (City), said, “Due to vacation time there is shortage of staff. As such any government official is supposed to be on duty by 11 am. Parents pester officials with lots of petty issues. As per my knowledge, the officer in question had reached the centre by 12 pm. Parents’ queries were resolved.”
