TRICHY: An in-patient under treatment for acute health problems for a long time should be checked for symptoms of  , said Dr M  , consultant in old age and liaison pshychiatry. 

 Delirium is a serious condition which accompanied by hallucination, agitation and disorientation can worsen illness and even hasten death. 
 
 The India-born doctor based in the UK was in the city on Thursday to participate in an awareness programme held at Dr   to mark the World Delirium Day which falls on March 15. The consultant spoke at length with the doctors and nurses about the serious need for alerting people in India about the condition.
 
 “Delirium is a confused state of mind. They [patients] will become confused suddenly more than their normal self and will be behaving totally different. The patients will be very distressed. It can happen to anyone, from a neonatal to a 100-year-old man. Yet, the older people are more vulnerable than younger people who will be susceptible in case of serious head injuries due to accidents,” Dr Santhanakrishnan told ToI on Friday. 
 
 People suffering from delirium will have visual hallucination, reduced attention and alertness. Their consciousness will be clouded. Old people with underlying causes of hypertension, diabetes, chronic ailments are more vulnerable to delirium. 
 
 The prevalence of the condition is high all over the world. However, as infection and various health problems are higher in India and the cause of delirium is various health problems, patients here are more susceptible to the condition. “Delirium can happen to around 20 % in any in-patient setup. Even though it can happen to any age group, children are highly resilient. They can recover easily,” said the doctor. 
 
 Though delirium can be a life-threatening condition, it can be treated. “Treatment for delirium is treating the underlying causes. We can prevent delirium. Unfortunately, there is a clear evidence of significant lack of awareness among healthcare professionals, including doctors and nurses,” said Dr Santhanakrishnan.
 
 Delirium is not new to India. “Like the awareness about the need for washing hands is gaining popularity now even though we were aware of it for 160 years, delirium has been there for several decades. Yet, the number of people with awareness and the knowledge about the condition is negligible,” said the doctor, citing a survey done in the UK and India which showed that only 38 % of the people were aware of it. 
 
 Points: add to tile in Q2
 
 One in five patients in an in-patient setup is likely to have delirium 
 
 If the condition is not viewed seriously, there will be 11 % increase in death every 48 hours 
 
 
