CHENNAI:   analyst Trip Chowdhry last week said the IT services sector will be a dead sector in 2017 in terms of share price movement. He said company share prices will move either sideways or down. Upward movement is “impossible”, he said, naming in particular Infosys, Wipro,   and Accenture.

 According to Chowdhry, IT companies will suffer from a lack of revenue catalysts and will have continued industry challengers throughout 2017. As the world moves rapidly to newer technologies like cloud, mobile, analytics, machine learning/artificial intelligence, and internet-of-things, older IT services companies are scurrying to transform themselves to deal with the new requirements. Not only do they need new skills, cloud even requires them to change their business models.
 
 Chowdhry, who is co-founder at Global   Research, even says that there are no more large IT deals left, which means it will be a “zerosum game” for the industry, since companies can at best take existing deals away from others. Chowdhry is a controversial analyst. He has been the butt of jokes for getting several of his big predictions on   wrong. On IT services, some of his premises – especially that on the emergence of industry challengers – are borne out by others. Infosys CEO Vishal Sikka has long said that the Indian IT sector will become obsolete in the absence of it innovating and failing to adopt automation – a point which he reiterated in a new year message to employees this year.
 
 Phil Fersht of IT consulting firm HfS Research notes that many emerging startups and consulting firms are emerging to challenge the established firms. “While some of today's current crop of service providers, including Indian providers, are trying to build the parallel model by making ongoing tuck-in acquisitions of digital consultancies, their bread is still very much buttered by their legacy clients, many of whom are really struggling to keep up with the current pace of change,” he says.
 
 But while these are indeed challenges, some see emerging opportunities too. Financial services firm Edelweiss, in fact, believes calendar year 2017 will be good for Indian IT. It envisages pent up demand during 2011 and 2016 – due to lack of clarity on what cloud means for the business – to translate to actual spends this year, given the cloud infrastructures now available and their acknowledged benefits.
 
 It also sees US corporate profits and global GDP rising, and notes that there is a direct correlation between these and Indian IT exports.
 
 Brokerage firm Kotak Institutional Equities thinks that the financial services sector can be a source of positive surprise for the Indian IT sector in calendar year 2017. The initial indications are of higher spending in the financial services vertical, it says. The sector, by far the biggest spender on technology, had cut spends last year, forcing companies like Infosys and TCS to lower growth expectations. Most analysts, however, are waiting also to see what   will do with regard to US immigration, H-1B visas and corporate taxes. These could have significant impact on the final shape of 2017 for Indian IT. 
 
 (With inputs from Shilpa Phadnis)
 
