Fancy and catchy monikers for our   stars aren’t anything new. From yesteryear matinee idols ‘Puratchi Thalaivar’ MGR and ‘Makkal Thilagam’ Sivaji Ganesan, to today’s hot stars in the trade ‘Thala’ Ajith and ‘Ilaya Thalapathy’  , and many other actors, had quirky titles attached to their names on screen. The titles ‘Superstar’   and ‘Ulaganayagan’   need no introduction. Fans take pride in the titles of their favourite heroes by flaunting them on T-shirts, as tattoos, and more. However, the recent years witnessed a decline in the usage of such titles on screen. There are instances of Ajith’s films appearing only with his name Ajith Kumar on screen in the recent times, and we’ve heard how Vishal is not keen on adding ‘Puratchi Thalapathy’ to his name. But then come cases like these, that make us feel that the trend has not really disappeared. Check out a few interesting titles and gimmicks the makers of certain films have come up with, to attract viewers...

 
 The lensman-turned-actor who gave a surprise hit with Sathuranga Vettai a couple of years ago, was recently seen in Bongu, which hit screens last month. During the film’s preview, the viewers were astonished when his name appeared on screen with the title ‘Rare Piece’. An actioner, the film directed by Taj, however, didn’t make any impact at the box office.
 
 
 The actor-choreographer-director, who has been into various philanthropic activities, won support from several quarters after the jallikattu movement which took place earlier this year. Quite buoyed by the response from people, the makers gave him the title ‘Makkal Superstar’ for the film Motta Shiva Ketta Shiva. It was a shock to many. The fans of Superstar Rajinikanth and others criticised this move on social media, which made Lawrence and director Sai Ramana apologise in public on the release day itself. The film, too, faced harsh reviews from many critics.
 
 
 ‘Ilaya Thalapathy’, as he has been called among movie buffs and hardcore fans since long time, Vijay has been given a new title by makers of   with a small change. The first look of the film had the star in a cool look with the title ‘Thalapathy’. While there are those who argue that he can’t own this title, the actor’s fans strongly believe that he 
 deserves it, considering his huge command over BO.
 
 
 Simbu aka STR, who has had a transition from ‘Little Superstar’ to ‘Young Superstar’ in the beginning of this decade, went a step ahead to satisfy his fan base recently. His last release Anbanavan Asaradhavan Adangadhavan had the three letters S-T-R appearing with mass BGM as fans went crazy, with a caption ‘Neenge Illama Naan Illa’, making them go berserk. The movie, however, was panned by almost all quarters.
 
 
 The film Vaigai Express has been lying in the cans for a long time. Starring R Kay in lead role, playing the role of a sharp shooter-cum-detective, this thriller had the actor’s name appearing with the title, ‘Makkal Thalapathy’. A remake of a decade-old Mollywood film, the movie impressed neither critics nor audience.
 
 
 Set against a village backdrop, the film Thappattam delves into the lives of people who are adept in the traditional folk art form.The movie directed by Mujibur has Durai Sudhakar as the protagonist. All set for a release in August, the posters of the movie pasted on the walls across the city have started attracting people, thanks to the title given to Sudhakar — ‘Public Star’. 
 
 
 
 
