New Delhi: Delhiites felt the   sweeping in from the northwest since the previous night, sending day temperatures on Tuesday plunging to a two-year low in the capital.

 The city’s main weather station, Safdarjung, recorded a maximum temperature of 15.7 degrees Celsius, more than 4 degrees C below normal. A lower day temperature was last seen in the capital on January 8, 2015 — when 14.7 degrees C was recorded, as per data from meteorological website Ogimet — although Tuesday’s maximum was matched on January 20 last year.
 
 “The chill in northwest India is being caused by a cold air outbreak from the north, in the aftermath of a western disturbance passing through the region. The spell is likely to last another two-three days,” said Ravinder Vishen, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre here. 
 
 Vishen said day temperatures may increase a few notches on Wednesday as wind speeds drop but the night could be colder by a degree or so.
 
 Safdarjung recorded a minimum temperature of 6 degrees C, a degree below normal, on Tuesday. The city’s lowest temperature was a chilling 3.8 degrees C at Jafarpur in southwest Delhi. Lodhi Road recorded a minimum of 5.1 degrees.
 
 Likewise, other stations in the city recorded lower day temperatures than Safdarjung. The mercury peaked at 14.7 degrees C at Akshardham and 14.9 degrees at Pitampura. Palam registered a maximum of 15.4 degrees, 5 less than normal, which technically qualifies as “cold day” conditions. 
 
 The chilly spell started from Monday night, when northwesterly winds began sweeping into the city, bringing in the cold from the Himalayan region, where many areas have seen a fresh round of heavy snow in the past couple of days.
 
 The Met office said the weather is likely to get milder from January 21, when another western disturbance (WD) is expected to hit the western Himalayas. Western disturbances are cold and wet winds drawn towards the Himalayas from the Mediterranean due to a pressure difference. They bring usually bring rain and snow in the hills, and subsequently, spells of cold in the northwestern plains.
 
