NEW DELHI:   has come to India from   in Pakistan for a reason. The ardent follower of   is here to celebrate the legendary freedom fighter’s 110th birth anniversary. However, his visit is significant also because he has filed a   in Lahore   asking it to re-hear the case of murder against the revolutionary that resulted in his hanging. 

 When Qureshi meets Singh’s family in Hoshiarpur, Punjab, his petition will likely dominate the conversations. He has pointed out to the court a legal lacuna that prove the revolutionary's murder trial was a sham, as was, therefore, the death sentence awarded to him.
 
 Based on the FIR filed against Singh and Shivaram Rajguru for the killing of police officer John P Saunders, the petition notes the legal ineptness of the entire criminal proceedings against the men. “The proceedings of the case were transferred from a special magistrate to a three-member tribunal under an ordinance that never became an Act,” explained Dr Nafis Siddiqui, the Indian Supreme Court lawyer who is assisting Qureshi in the case.
 
 According to Siddiqui, the ordinance lapsed before it was given legal sanctity as an Act, rendering Singh's death sentencing illegal. “An illegal death warrant was issued by the then registrar of Lahore high court on the basis of which he was hanged though the registrar was not authorised to do so,” Siddiqui told TOI. The Indian lawyer plans to visit Pakistan with his team of advocates whenever the case comes up for hearing.
 
 The primary contention that Qureshi and his petition raise is that Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev were never given the opportunity to defend themselves properly. "The accused remained absent during the entire case and went unrepresented by counsels,” the petition said. “Advocates engaged to defend them were insulted by the Tribunal.”
 
 Not only does the petition seek a larger bench of more than two judges to re-hear the case, but it also requests posthumous privileges and reward for the martyred freedom fighter. "The British government through her Queen should tender a written apology to the Union of India and Federation of Pakistan for its blunder in illegal and judicial murder,” the petition asserts.
 
 For now, Qureshi wants to celebrate the birth anniversary with Singh’s family for company. "The blood of freedom fighters runs in my veins,” he claimed. “The case in Lahore can provide ground for harmony between our two countries.”
 
