MUMBAI:   was put on high alert on Monday night following an Interpol input about a bomb on board a flight to Kuala Lumpur. Security agencies combed three aircraft for suspicious objects even as more than 400 passengers and 500 pieces of check-in bags were put through a thorough security check. Given the rising instances of terror attacks on airports worldwide, the call—this year’s first — had the CISF security personnel, Mumbai police and the airport operator on edge even as departures of two Malaysia Airlines flight and one Malindo Air flight were delayed by four to five hours.
 
  “The CBI had an intelligence input through Interpol about a bomb on board a flight bound for Kuala Lumpur,” said O P Singh, director-general, CISF. “I ordered a proper drill, a thorough security check of all flights bound for Kuala Lumpur,” Singh said. “We monitored all the three flights till the time they landed safely at their scheduled destination,” he added. A general security alert on account of the January 26 Republic Day was also in force.
  
  After the CBI input, there was another alert from a different source. A Sahar police officer said that around 9.50pm, the airport control room manned by MIAL (Mumbai International Airport Pvt Ltd) received an anonymous call. The caller, too, spoke about a bomb onboard a flight to Kuala Lumpur. It was a VoIP (voice over internet protocol) call and the caller disconnected soon after giving the message. The police official said that VoIP calls are difficult to trace as the search area extends across the globe.
  
  The security agencies zoomed in on all three KL bound flights—the 11.15pm Malindo Air flight OD-216 with 140 passengers on board; the 11.25pm   flight MH-195 with 158 passengers and the 2am MH-187 with 145 passengers.
  
  A police official said, “The passengers who had boarded the aircraft were informed about the   and asked to deplane to undergo a security check again. Not a single passenger complained or created a fuss. Instead, they came forward and asked us to frisk them all, they didn’t want any untoward incident mid-air.”
  
  Three Boeing 737-800 jets along with a total of 443 flyers and 511 check-in bags were put through rigorous security by the CISF, the bomb detection and disposal squad and sniffer dogs. Taking a serious note of the call, top police officials such as the additional commissioner of police (western region) Chhering Dorje, deputy commissioner of police (Zone VIII) Virendra Mishra, too, rushed to the spot and stayed put till the flights took off on Tuesday morning.
  
  The security search began at around 10pm on Monday and went till 6.23am on Tuesday when the last of the three flights departed. “During the nine hours of search, handbags, check-in bags, cargo compartments, passenger cabins, food galleys, liquor bottles onboard, everything was inspected. We then concluded that it was a hoax call,” said a source.
  
  The Sahar police has made a dairy entry of the entire incident. “An FIR is not registered because the caller did not threaten to blow or any terror strike. Instead the caller alerted about an explosive on board,” said the officer. A Malaysia Airline spokesperson said the matter was given “the utmost importance and security arrangement in place was 100%”.
  
  The recent cases of terrorist bombings at airports—Brussels airport and Istanbul airport in 2015—has put the security agencies on high alert. In 2014, 298 people were killed after a Malaysia Airlines Boeing 777 flying from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur was bombed over Ukraine. Earlier that year, another Malaysia Airlines B777 with 240 passengers onboard went missing on a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing.
  
