BEIJING: China is worried about the next Dalai Lama emerging from a foreign country, which probably explains its stiff opposition to the upcoming visit of the present   to  , which is the birthplace of one of his predecessors in the 6th century.

 Experts at a government think-tank on Thursday said that the visit will certainly hurt  . Tawang is part of China, Lian Xiangmin, director of Institute of Contemporary Tibetan Studies at China Tibetology Research Centre (CTRC), said at a press conference. He cited historical links between mainland China and Tawang to substantiate his claim. 
 
 “One of the three major temples of Tibet is Zhaibang (Drepung monastery near Lhasa), and Tawang was a subsidiary of Drepung and in history, Tawang’s monks went to Drepung to study sutras,” he said. He said that in the past, the   under Drepung made contributions to the local government. This is why Tawang is part of Tibet, which in turn makes it part of China, he argued.
 
 “During his [last] visit to Tawang, the Dalai Lama said Tawang is a part of India.That is not true and not according to facts,” Lian said referring to the Tibetan leader’s earlier 2009 visit. The Tibetan leader is due to visit Tawang on April 5.
 
 “We do not want to see such things happening time and again. This time around the Indian government has again arranged the visit, it will only hurt friendly relations between the two countries,” the expert said, adding Dalai Lama’s planned visit “touches a sensitive issue and undoubtedly negatively affects China-India relations”.
 
 Chinese foreign ministry has also objected, saying the visit will complicate the ongoing border problem between the two countries.
 
 China is likely to choose a successor for the Dalai Lama, Lian said during a rare interaction between government experts on Tibetan studies and journalists. The Tibetan leader is now 81, and China is keen that his successor comes from a place which it controls. But it is afraid that the successor might emerge from any Tibetan inhabited area in India or an area like Tawang which is bordering China’s Tibet region.
 
 “While the succession needs to be decided or implemented according to historical conventions and religious rituals, my hope as an academic is that his successor should be found in his home in China,” Lian said pointing out that there are six million Tibetan people in the country, and only 200,000 Tibetans live outside China.
 
 “So far, there are have been 14 Dalai Lamas produced in China,” Lian said
 
