Gurgaon is no stranger to last-minute cancellations of concerts. Some music lovers even think that the city is jinxed when it comes to performances by international artists. Just last month, Swedish DJ  's gig in the city was cancelled over security concerns after Section 144 was imposed in the city due to a Jat agitation. So, on Thursday – a day before the   Experience concert in the city – when the district administration extended the imposition of Section 144 in the city, music lovers braced themselves for another possible disappointment. However, this time, the   made sure that the show went on. 

  
  Band members   and  
 
 
 
  
 The issue of permissions cropped up on Thursday, a day before the scheduled date of the concert. The District Magistrate issued an order extending the imposition of Section 144, which prohibits gathering of five or more persons, till March 25. The order, initially imposed only till Thursday (March 17), was a precautionary measure since the verdict of the 2012 Maruti Suzuki labour unrest case was to be announced on Friday.
 
  After the extension, there was speculation that the Dire Straits Experience concert will also meet the same fate as the Eric Prydz gig. When asked if the order would lead to the concert's cancellation, the PRO of the DM's office told us, "If the organisers have taken special permission, then the concert will happen."
 
  
 When we asked Gurgaon Police Commissioner   on Friday if the concert would be cancelled, he told us, "I will personally ensure that all goes well."
 
 
  
  Sandeep Khirwar
 Gurgaon Police Commissioner 
 
 
  To manage the crowd and to provide security to the artists, a large number of police personnel were present at the venue. Besides, the police officers, traffic police and PCR vans were also present on the Kingdom Of Dreams to Leisure Valley stretch. A police officer on duty at the concert told us, "Only   officials have been deployed at Leisure Valley and the traffic police is taking care of the traffic arrangements. We have not taken help from any other force." The Gurgaon police chief was also present at the concert to make sure that the event happened without any problem. 
 
 
  
 
  
  (L) Chris White and Terence Reis (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
