KOLHAPUR: Followers of slain rationalist and veteran Communist leader   have decided to intensify their agitation across Maharashtra to put pressure on the government to expedite the probe and punish those involved in his murder. 

 They have expressed unhappiness with the the government for the slow progress in the murder case. Pansare's daughter in-law and   member, Megha Pansare, on Friday said, "The government is not serious about the investigation. As a result, justice is being delayed. Apart from judicial process, we need to intensify struggle among people and aware them about the Pansare and his thought." 
 
 She added, "We will raise the constitutional struggle through lectures, morning walks and workshops across the state Maharashtra. I will hold discussions with Hamid Dabholkar, son of late  , to chalk out the strategy of the protest. It is important for us to make the common people aware to put pressure on the government."
 
 An office-bearer of the CPI's Kolhapur unit, Dilip Powar, said, "We have been protesting against the delay in the investigation of Pansare. We are organising morning walks here frequently and are mulling over similar protest programmes in other parts of state. We will decide our next course of actions at our party meetings."
 
 Maharashtra Andhshraddha Nirmulan Samiti (MSNS) member   said, "We will reach out to the youth of Maharashtra till August 20. Mass awareness campaigns will be organised at various places. Our demand is speedy investigation in the Pansare and Dabholkar murder cases. We will not give up the struggle till we ensure justice." 
 
 Pansare and his wife, Uma, were attacked near their residence by unidentified men riding on motorcycle. They shot at them on February 16, 2015. Pansare succumbed to his injuries on February 20 at a hospital in Mumbai. Dabholkar was shot dead by two unidentified suspects on a motorcycle on the   bridge in Pune on August 20, 2013. 
 
 The Bombay High Court had frowned upon the Central CBI after the agency said it would not pursue taking a ballistic opinion from Scotland Yard to establish a link in the killings of activists Dabholkar, Pansare and Kannada writer M M Kalburgi. alburgi was killed on August 30, 2015 by some unidentified assailants. All the three persons were killed in a similar fashion and the investigating agencies have been trying to find out the link in the three killings. 
 
 
