Nagpur: It is unusual to hear of house helps pursuing creative activities; their laborious nature of work and financial condition hardly allow them to explore their creative side. 

 Urmi Chakravorty, a professor and a soft skills trainer, pondered over this and came up with a novel idea. In 2006, the 27-year-old resident of Pratap Nagar took her first do-it-yourself rakhi-making workshop for her and her neighbour’s house helps. 
 
 From that humble count of five participants, her generous enterprise grew. Last Sunday, as she took her sixth such workshop, over 30   assembled at the venue, her mother’s house in Sneh Nagar.
 
 “These women also have a creative spark, but unfortunately, they don’t have a choice. They have to work according to what the situation demands,” she says, adding that her mother was engaged in art and craft activities, so there has always been creativity within her. “I enjoy creative things and I hope these workshops help them make some money in times of need,” she says.
 
 Chakravorty shares that she was experimented with various materials such as one-rupee coins, broken necklaces, ribbons and rope, among other things. She also takes such workshops in orphanages. These annual workshops are decided based on the time and convenience of the housemaids, and the recent one was for two hours. 
 
 All the materials are brought by Chakavorty, and this year, she had women coming from Laxmi Nagar chawl. Last year, she also taught how to make rakhis to a couple of sexual workers, she said.
 
 The results have been heartening. “One of the participants who came to my workshop, started making money through the skill and enrolled her kid in school. Another woman whom I taught quilling now has her own little business, and sells jholas and potlis through exhibition,” she says. 
 
 On Sunday, housemaid Lata Deshmukh had come for the workshop along with 23-year-old daughter Rohini. “I have already sold the rakhis I made that day, and I have been making rakhis since three years now,” says Deshmukh. 
 
 She and her daughter will also be setting up a stall near Railway Crossing in order to sell more rakhis, puja materials and even eco-friendly Ganpatis.
 
 “I try to teach them easy ways in order to boost their confidence. We need to assure them that what they are doing looks good. Hence I’ve named this initiative as ‘We too can’,” Chakravorty adds.
 
 
