MUMBAI: A city setting new vertical limits almost every day got its second tallest fire   last month. The 81-metre hydraulic platform to fight fires at highrises in the city arrived from Finland a fortnight ago. A 90-metre platform was commissioned in August 2016.

 The fire force had set its eyes on procuring the 81-metre ladder to bridge the gap between the 70-metre ladder it had and the 90-metre ladder commissioned in 2015.   officials said that the idea was that with highrises springing up across the city rapidly, they wanted ladders that can reach various levels. While the 90-metre ladder can reach up to 30 floors, the 81-metre ladder will reach 26 storeys.
 
 The 81-metre ladder, procured from Bronto Skylift Oy Ab is getting clearances from the   (RTO). 
 
 A senior fire brigade official explained, “We have applied to the local RTO for permission but due to the weight of the vehicle (48.5 tonnes) on which the ladder has been mounted, we will require special permission from the ministry of transport. Fire brigade drivers are now being trained to use the vehicle.”
 
 The fire brigade plans to keep one sophisticated ladder in each of its six command centres. “The 90-metre ladder is at the Byculla command centre along with the 70-metre ladder. We therefore plan to keep the 81-metre ladder, once permission is in place, at the Borivli command centre,” said the fire brigade official. 
 
 The other command centres are in Mankhurd, Wadala, Vikhroli and Marol. The half a dozen command centres were proposed here after the July 2005 deluge, when Mumbai came to a standstill. The idea of having a command centre was that they would be able to mobilise resources from nearby fire stations when needed, especially in times of disaster. 
 
 Chief fire officer P Rahangdale confirmed that the 81-metre ladder would be inaugurated soon. “The 17 mini-fire engines are expected to arrive in a fortnight, and we plan to inaugurate the new 81-metre ladder along with them,” said Rahangdale.
 
 The next plan is to procure 64-metre and higher ladders, which will be kept at various command centres in the city. The fire brigade is also procuring motorbikes to reduce the time taken to reach a site in case of a fire in congested areas. 
 
