PUNE: Senior leaders of the Nationalist   and the   announced an alliance for the civic election in Pune on Thursday.

 “We have decided to join hands with the Congress. It will be a mix of alliance and friendly fights,”   leader and former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said.
 
 At the end of the day, the NCP and the Congress agreed to contest 100 seats together, while there will be ‘friendly fights’ for the remaining 62 seats where both would contest.
 
 Details about which party candidate will contest in particular wards were withheld to avoid rebellion. The lists are likely to be declared on Friday. 
 
 Both parties were still deciding about an alliance in Pimpri Chinchwad, Pawar said. The seat-sharing will be finalized late on Thursday night, the party’s city unit president Sanjog Waghere said.
 
 Since the NCP was formed in 1999, it has been contesting the election single-handedly. Both the Congress and the NCP had preferred post-poll alliance. Thursday’s move of pre-poll coalition may be considered a landmark in Pune’s politics.
 
 According to sources from both parties, the leaders were trying to take the benefit of the break-up of alliance between Shiv Sena and BJP. “If planned properly, we can capitalise on the other parties’ discontent. The alliance would help control the division of votes, which otherwise would have taken place,” a source from NCP said. 
 
 Earlier on Tuesday, the NCP and the Congress had decided to go solo in the civic elections. The talks fizzled out without reaching any consensus on the seat-sharing formula.
 
 During discussions, Congress leaders pressed for 67 seats, while NCP was ready to give them 60. Finally, the Congress leaders on Monday morning telephoned the NCP that they were calling off the talks.
 
 NCP leaders said the Congress was demanding seats from places where the NCP had sitting corporators so it was technically impossible for the NCP to give up those seats and hence the talks were halted. 
 
 However, as per the discussion on Thursday, ‘friendly fights’ would be contested in 62 seats, where both parties were claiming their candidature. “So, now both parties will field their candidate in those wards. But, wherever an alliance has taken place, only one party will field the candidate,” a Congress source said.
 
 Those who supported the alliance were of the opinion that this alliance would help both parties get more seats. 
 
 “This election has become tough as the panel size has increased drastically. Candidates will have to reach out to the voters in four wards compared to the two wards during the last election. If two strong parties come together, then campaigning and leg-work for the election would become easier,” leaders from both parties said.
 
 As many as 10 municipal corporations, including Pune, will go to polls on February 21, and the results would be announced on February 23. More than 26.43 lakh voters have been registered for this election, which will elect 162 corporators.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, state unit Congress president Ashok Chavan was unavailable for comment.
 
 
