PANAJI: Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) has alleged that a section of   land in  , measuring 15,512 sq m, has been given to an educational institute, which is currently operating from the premises of a property owned by Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho. 

 GPCC secretary Avinash Tavares said that the land, meant for an old age home, has been handed over to the institute at a rate below the market price. “The comunidade of Chicalim has given away 15,512 sq m of land to   for developing their educational institution. While the government rate puts this property in the bracket of Rs 1,300 per sq m (total cost Rs 2.02 crore), the Chicalim comunidade has demanded Rs 1,600 per sq m (total cost Rs 2.48 crore). The property is currently valued at Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000 per sq m,” Tavares said, adding that the prime property has been leased out for a “private purpose to a private investor”. 
 
 The party also raised concerns about the risk of building an educational institute on a property which is less than half a kilometre away from Goa’s three major aviation turbine fuel (ATF) tank clusters. “A 10,000 sq m built-up area is slated for the mentioned property. Edify School, Goa, commissioned by   and Movers group, is currently being run in  . The proposed school is being built barely 200m away from fuel tank clusters belonging to Hindustan Petrolium, Bharat Petrolium Corporation and Reliance Aviation. The explosive impact of the highly-volatile ATF can flatten buildings and scorch out lives in a two kilometre radius. This is a major risk,” Tavares said, adding that the proposed access is also marked by heavy cargo and container traffic movement from the Mormugao Industrial Estate. 
 
 GPCC has filed a complaint with the collector and demanded that the ongoing boundary work be stopped immediately.
 
 Responding to allegations, Godinho denied any links with operations of the educational institute. “I have nothing to do with Edify School. I have rented my premises to them. This is just dirty imagination of my political rivals and I challenge them to prove that there is any land grabbing happening,” Godinho said.
 
 
