Visakhapatnam: Days after the central government banned red beacon from May 1, netas and higher officials in the north Andhra districts have dropped beacons from their vehicles. 

 The Centre has this month announced that a ban on the use of red beacons (lal battis) on vehicle of all VVIPs from May 1 barring vehicles concerning emergency and relief services, ambulance and fire service. 
 
 Using red beacons was considered as a symbol of status and high privilege by the officials and politicians. More than 200 vehicles of cops, politicians and district administrators in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam have followed orders and removed the beacon from their vehicles. Even state ministers have removed the beacons from their vehicles. 
 
 Sources said north Andhra districts have around 25 IPS and IAS officers in various wings, majority of whom used red beacons till April 30. Some ministers have voluntarlily pulled down the beacon lights themselves from their vehicles. Five ministers from north Andhra energy minister Kala Venkata Rao, transport minister Atchannaidu Kinjarapu of Srikakulam, mining minister Sujay Krishna Rangarao of Bobbili, R&B minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu and HRD minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao of Vizag and government whip Koona Ravi Kumar of Srikakulam were spotted on Monday without beacons on cars. 
 
 Vice-chancellors of universities and district collectors, joint collectors have also removed the beacons from their vehicles. Sources said Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts have more than 50 vehicles bearing the red beacons including ZP chairpersons, chief whip, collectors and joint collectors and some of the police higher officials, besides ministers. 
 
 “It’s a good decision of the central government to ban the use of beacons used by ministers or other officials as they are not different from the public. We elected these representatives and they have some priority, but should not create trouble to the public. Ministers or politicians abroad travel the same way as a commoner but the case is different in India. Each politician has five to six cars bearing the red beacon and they let their families use it too,” said AP Chamber of Commerce president G Samba Siva Rao. 
 
 “Beacons should be used for essential services only and not for VIPs. It has become a practice of VIPs to stop traffic and jump the queue. Not only this, providing unnecessary security means deploying huge number of cops for VIP programmes,” said retired IAS officer EAS Sarma.
 
 
