PATNA: The Bihar  , shut since March 28 for rectification of   and other maintenance needs, will remain closed for at least one more month. 

 The museum was scheduled to reopen on April 8. A brainchild of CM  , the world-class museum was inaugurated by him on August 7, 2015, a few weeks before the assembly election. 
 
 “Two galleries of the museum were opened in August 2015. Some structural as well as fabrication snags were identified recently after which the contractor, Larsen & Toubro Limited, demanded its closure to carry out rectification work. The firm is now saying it will need at least one more month to complete the rectification work,” said J P N Singh, additional director of the Bihar Museum. 
 
 The state government roped in consultants from Canada, Japan and Singapore to make it a museum of international standards. However, the consultants, architects and other agencies are alleged to have created grey area in the museum project, owing to lack of coordination.
 
 “Though these agencies involved in the museum project are experts in their respective fields, they could not foresee several local factors in the museum project and now keep making modifications or additions. Besides, there have been frequent conflicts during the work between architectural consultant Maki & Associates and the L&T,” said an official in the museum directorate, wishing anonymity.
 
 Bihar Museum’s additional director Singh, however, said rectification works in museums are normal phenomenon. “Even the   in New Delhi was closed for three years after its inauguration for correctional works. There is no lack of coordination between the architects and the construction firm,” he claimed.
 
 Till March 28, only the orientation and children galleries were open for visitors. The four other galleries -- regional art, contemporary art, historical art and Bihari diaspora -- are proposed to be opened in October this year.
 
 Sources said the regional, contemporary and historical art galleries would be dedicated to different art forms of Bihar right from the ancient period. The Bihari Diaspora gallery will be dedicated to renowned personalities hailing from Bihar, who have brought laurels to the state.
 
 
