Looks like former US President Barack   and First Lady   have been quite busy ever since they left the White House. In a significant deal, the forthcoming books by former   will be published by   reported IANS. 
 
 The announcement of the book deal was made by Penguin Random House late on February 28 night, following an intense and much anticipated auction among several prominent publishers, read the report. While the agreement terms of the deal were not disclosed by the Obamas, it is noted that they were represented by Robert Barnett and Deneen Howell of Williams and Connolly, which is one of America's premiere litigation firms. 
  
 "We are absolutely thrilled to continue our publishing partnership with President and Mrs Obama. With their words and their leadership, they changed the world, and every day, with the books we publish at Penguin Random House, we strive to do the same," the Chief Executive of Penguin Random House, Markus Dohle, said in a statement. "Now, we are very much looking forward to working together with President and Mrs Obama to make each of their books global publishing events of unprecedented scope and significance," he added, reported IANS.
  
 It's noted that Penguin has published Obama’s first three books too. The first book titled 'Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance' was published in 1995 and later re-released in 2004. The second book was 'The Audacity of Hope: Thoughts on Reclaiming the American Dream' in 2006. Obama had also published a children’s book titled 'Of Thee I Sing: A Letter to My Daughters' in 2010.
  
 The subjects of the Obamas books haven't been officially announced yet. But according to ABC News, Barack Obama’s book will be a memoir of his presidency; Michelle Obama will write a book based on her life story, to inspire young people.
  
 Penguin Random House has acquired the world rights to the new books by the Obamas, whose worldwide sales are expected to be huge. It has been reported that the Obamas plan to donate a portion of their advances to charity later.
  
 Penguin also plans to donate one million books in the Obama family's name to First Book, a Penguin Random House nonprofit partner, and the Washington-based partner for the 2016 White House digital education initiative, Open eBooks read IANS' report.
  
 Though the bidding amount of the books deal is not disclosed it is said to have hit the $60-million mark, according to a report in the Financial Times. This is one of the largest presidential book deals in recent times.   reportedly earned a $15-million advance for his post-White House memoir; George W. Bush’s garnered a reported $7 million, according to LATimes.com .
  
 The other publishing contenders for Obamas' books deal were-- Macmillan, Simon & Schuster, HarperCollins and Penguin, reports LATimes.com . Interestingly, Simon & Schuster’s Threshold Editions imprint published US President Donald Trump’s recent book 'Great Again: How to Fix Our Crippled America'.
 
 
