NASHIK: The state has finally set the ball rolling to start a post-graduate (PG) medical college in the divisional   here.

 On January 11, the state health department gave its nod for funds to modernise equipment at the hospital so that PG courses can be taught at the health hub. 
 
 In addition to this, the state government has also granted permission to the hospital to start procuring state-of-the-art medical equipment to upgrade its existing super-specialty facilities. 
 
 “The state health department initiated the College of Physicians & Surgeons of Mumbai (CPS) diploma courses at the referral hospital last year. We already have some students who have signed up for these courses. We are, however, looking forward to host a   with academic support of the Maharashtra university of health science (MUHS),” said  , medical superintendent of the referral hospital.
 
 “During district planning commission meeting chaired bby guardian minister Girish Mahajan, who is also the state medical education minister, plans about this project were discussed in detail,” Gunthe added. 
 
 Sources in the minister’s office also confirmed that the government PG medical college will start by next academic session in 2017-18. “Formalities and paper work are being taken care off. While Nashik already has the infrastructure to start a PG medical college, existing facilities are being upgraded in full-swing,” sources added. 
 
 MUHS authorities are also positive about bringing Nashik’s most awaited government medical college to the city. “The MUHS has already submitted the proposal to start the college with help from Nashik’s referral hospital and civil hospital together,”said Mahajan, who is also the university’s pro-chancellor and instrumental in this ambitious project. “The minister assured us in the recently held university convocation that the PG medical college will be a reality for Nashik soon,” said K D Chavan, MUHS registrar. 
 
 At the MUHS convocation held in December last year, minister Girish Mahajan admitted that the hospital’s facilities need to be modernised before starting PG medical courses.
 
