NAGPUR: Union minister of state for   (HRD) Mahendra Nath Pandey on Monday directed principals of non-aided private colleges to improve the quality of education to get a spot in National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF).

  He was speaking at the 37th principals’ meet of non-aided private colleges organized by   and Dhanwate National College (DNC) on its Congress Nagar premises. 
 
 In his address to college principals, Pandey also discussed about the online education portal Swayam and Swayam Prabha DTH channel which was launched by President Pranab Mukherjee on Sunday. 
 
 “Swayam online education portal is a great platform for students to receive best education from across the world at reasonable prices. All principals must upgrade their classrooms into smart classroom for providing sustainable education to students,” said Pandey.
 
 Referring to a 2015-16 survey by the HRD ministry, Pandey said, “Maharashtra is the only state in the country where 78% students chose private colleges for higher education while 22% chose government colleges.”
 
 “Eleven lakh students chose private colleges while five lakh opted for government colleges. It shows the quality of education in colleges in Maharashtra,” the minister said.
 
 “Private colleges in Maharashtra are one of the most developed colleges in India and they provide best infrastructure and education to the students. But principals of the colleges must never stop improving educational quality,” Pandey further said.
 
 Pandey also asked the principals to take benefits of   on Teacher and Teaching, a central government scheme for effective teaching experience.
 
 Principal of DNC Babanrao Taywade presented principals’ demands with respect to the newly implemented 5-year tenure of principals and extension of retirement age in Maharashtra from 62 to 65 years.
 
 “These are some genuine demands and I will take them to our department and request state government to think over them,” said Pandey.
 
 As part of the principals meet, a discussion on ‘New University Act and Challenges before Higher Education’ was also held. 
 
 Former president of state principal forum Nandakumar Nikam, said, “All the laws are created with good intention but it is our duty to bring forward the loopholes in the new University Act. According to my analysis, the law needs many changes and if needed, we must be ready to take it to court.”
 
 Jagannath Patil, an adviser to National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAAC), was felicitated by Pandey at the programme for his contribution to the field of education. 
 
 
