GURUGRAM/NEW DELHI: The   has started a massive exercise to review the status of huge tracts of   and   ranges that enjoy protected status under the  .

 The objective of the exercise, activists fear, is to take large land parcels under PLPA out of the “forest” category so that they can be used for commercial and residential purposes. Sections 4 and 5 of PLPA, under which huge chunks of land in 10 Haryana districts is notified, restrict non-forest activities in these areas.
 
 The state government has set a mid-March deadline for the divisional commissioners of the 10 districts to verify the status of land notified under PLPA.
 
 At a meeting chaired by Gurugram’s divisional commissioner D Suresh on Friday, it was decided that the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) would be tasked with reviewing PLPA land, sources said.
 
 This is the second time that the Haryana government is making an effort to free up big land parcels now inaccessible because of PLPA. In 2014, the Congress regime had moved the Supreme Court to free up nearly 20,345 hectares of Aravali land, which were declared “forest” by the court in a mining-related case in 2004. There has been no progress in court on this.
 
 But the same year, the Supreme Court was hearing a case from Punjab — B S Sandhu vs Govt of India and others — where an entire village had been notified under PLPA, including its agricultural land. It had observed that several villagers, agriculturists, farmers, shop owners and inhabitants of Karoran village in Ropar district were carrying on with their respective occupations on their land even before the enactment of the Forest Conservation Act on October 25, 1980. PLPA had been used as the benchmark for this exercise. The court had set aside a Punjab and Haryana high court order treating entire Karoran village as ‘forest land’.
 
 The Haryana government has taken a cue from the Punjab case to start this new exercise. It has asked divisional commissioners to examine the status of PLPA land as of October 25,1980. However, the basic difference between Punjab and Haryana is that while in Punjab the entire Karoran village was notified as forest, in Haryana only specified land parcels (kharas) have been notified under PLPA.
 
 Activists criticised the government for actively trying to exclude PLPA areas from forest laws. “The state government is awaiting SC’s order on status of  . It is apparent that the aim is clearly to serve the builder lobby,” said Col S Oberoi, a legal and environmental expert.
 
