AGRA: She is the first woman station   and now leads the team of 34 women staff at  , which was recently declared country's first ' ' station.

 Mamta Kulkarni, the 46-year-old woman who has been working for Mumbai division since 1992, hails from Basai village of Tundla tehsil, Firozabad district, which is 210 km away from nation capital New Delhi.
 
 Born in a family of ex-joint director of auditor general Avinash Parashar, Mamta is the elder among five siblings. At present her mother and youngest brother lives at their ancestral village in Basai.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Mamta said, "Way back in the early 90s I had an opportunity to work for a bank as clerk but I choose railways, as it was exciting and challenging. My family was surprised but supported me in my decision, but during my training period and psychological counselling in Bhusawal I was asked to opt for another cadre in the railway, as station manager job was said to be men job. But I stuck to my guns and worked hard, today the same railway has honoured me to be leader of a team which only comprises women."
 
 An inspiration for many including her two teenage daughters and siblings, Mamta's initial schooling was in Gwalior at Bal Vidya Mandir later she graduated from Jhunjhunwala College, Ghatkopar.
 
 Hailed as one of the excellent and hardworking employee in the railway by her seniors, Mamta said, "My 25-years of experience in railway including working till hours during Mumbai riots in 1992 when I was new recruit, to staying back in deluge in 2005 and 2008 terrorist attack, where I worked for more than 24 hours, attending calls, manning the station, delegating work and monitoring the activity on the railway tracks, this all has helped me to become more confident and mature to handle a team and operate a station efficiently."
 
 She said, "Today I know how to tackle a run over accident without hampering the railway operations and handle an unruly mob or molesters harassing women in train. This all has come with experience of working with some of the finest employees of railway. I'm immensely thankful to our general manager D K Sharma and his wife who pioneered the idea of having a station entirely been operated by women."
 
 Even today Mamta's who works in eight-nine hours shift continue to assist her juniors from home. "My family is important but the responsibility vested on me also demand my presence. I just cannot ignore it. I'm lucky to have a husband who backs me in every situation."
 
 Mamta's husband Vivek Kulkarni is a civil engineer working the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation.
 
 Deeapk Parashar, Mamta's youngest brother said, "Didi is inspiration for all of us. Everyone who knows her is proud of her determination and dedication."
 
 Senior public relation officer of central railway, A K Jain said, "Mamta is one of the finest employees of railways. She and her team are working excellent. If the pilot project of which they are part becomes successful, then we will surely expand this project and more stations will be manned by women in future.
 
