NEW DELHI:   and a multiplying number of service providers have been wreaking havoc on the Capital’s roads, particularly on the internal   of the colonies. Despite a protocol being in place, successive rounds of roadside   with no effort to restore and   — on one pretext or other — has led to complete anarchy. 

 Under rules, service providing agencies are supposed to submit a proposal to the municipal corporations and deposit restoration charges and it is the responsibility of the civic bodies to restore the stretch immediately after the work is over. In real practice, there seem to be no timelines and little concern for the road user. Long after the work is over and the area turned into a dust bowl, with people stumbling over stones and debris, the civic agencies show little resolve to set things right. 
 
 The major reason is poor coordination among multiple agencies and lack of monitoring. The AAP government, says the Shunglu Committee report, did try to set up an apex body for coordinating all digging work but ran into jurisdictional and procedural problems. Not that the roads under Delhi government’s PWD fare any better. The state of the Alaknanda Don Bosco Road in south Delhi will bear witness to this. It has remain wrecked for months now.
 
 While service providing agencies like BSES, IGL and Delhi Jal Board claim they follow all norms and it is the duty of the corporations to restore the road with the restoration charges they collect, the latter blame the agencies for not depositing the money on time which, they claim, delays restoration work. In the past five years, the spending by municipalities on road restoration has seen a major dip in stark contrast to the frenzied road ripping across the city.
 
 What’s worse, the contractors who execute the work on behalf of these agencies leave it to the labourers who have no idea of what lies beneath. Water pipes are punctured, cables damaged and storm water drains demolished. And, finally, patchwork repairs are undertaken.
 
 Under a policy introduced in 2007, it was the responsbility of the road-cutting agency to restore and repair. When this failed to deliver results, it was decided in 2011 to collect restoration charges. That policy too was modified to allow only 500 metres to be dug up after depositing the restoration charges. A committee set up the corporation has to monitor the work but in reality nothing happens. 
 
 The civic officials talk about exceptional circumstances rather than acknowledge and focus on a problem that everyone is familiar with. “There are instances when the road-cutting agencies have to repair pipelines or electricity lines and they go ahead without seeking permission from the corporation, saying it is an emergency situation. We cannot stop them but we try to restore the stretch as soon as the money is deposited. Usually, it is restored when the work is over,” said Shailendra Singh, standing committee chairman of south corporation. “If there is an urgent need, the corporation uses its own funds to restore the road and it is adjusted when we receive money from the respective agency,” said a senior official from north corporation. Ironically, residents find it difficult to recall such instances. 
 
 BSES says it follows the rule book. “In the case of laying cables, comprising around 90% of our road-cutting work, we pay the road-owning agency both for permission and restoration. It is the responsibility of that agency then to repair the road as early as possible. In the second case, comprising around 10 % of the total work, the distance dug to repair the faulty cables is not more than 10 meters and often trenchless. In such cases, we completely repair the roads at the earliest,” said a BSES spokesperson.
 
 IGL claims its officials inform authorities at least 24 hours in advance before the work is initiated. “IGL makes adequate arrangements for barricading and keeps precautionary boards around the area. It also makes adequate lighting arrangements beyond day hours. IGL ensures safety of the other underground services while carrying out the road-cutting activity. Verbal permission is also taken from the traffic police. After completion of the activity, the authorities are advised to carry out road restoration work,” added an IGL spokesperson.
 
 However, residents pooh-pooh these claims of the agencies, saying the ground situation is very different. Chetan Sharma of GK II RWA says: "Digging work is a norm and every now and then several stretches are dug up but not restored for a long time.”
 
 Harjinder Saroha of the RWA of Vasant Vihar Pocket C claims that a stretch near their area was dug up and for months it was not restored by the land-owning agency. “There was tremendous dust pollution and people had a difficult time commuting. It resulted in major traffic jams in our locality,” he said.
 
 All this pain can go away if utility tunnels, a practice around the world, are created for holding cables and pipes. New Delhi Municipal Council has done that in Connaught Place. In Singapore, it’s mostly plug-and-play with no disruption of normal life. Also, utilities have maps of their network which hardly any service provider here carries in order to minimize the damage. 
 
 
