BENGALURU: A 26-year-old nurse with a private hospital has been arrested for allegedly spraying acid on her ex-boyfriend's face and slashing his cheeks with a scalpel after he refused to marry her.

 L Jayakumar, 32, a cloth merchant from Prakashnagar is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. He is out of danger. He has sustained burns on the neck and deep cuts on both cheeks, police said.
 
 Investigation revealed that  , a resident of Srirampura, had carried the acid used to wash toilets in her hospital in a bottle and sprayed it on Jayakumar when he arrived at a temple in Vijayanagar on Monday evening. Lidia has been booked under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint) and 307b ( ).
 
 Lidia and Jayakumar fell in love in 2011 but parted ways last October. Their families were against their relationship. Jayakumar lives near Lidia's residence and both have studied in the same private school near Sehadripuram, police said.
 
 Jayakumar, who runs a cloth shop in Okalipuram, had promised Lidia that he would not marry any other woman. But differences cropped up between the couple after Lidia began forcing him to convert his religion before marriage. “Jayakumar told her that he will marry Lidia but won't change his religion. But Lidia was of the opinion that her family would accept the marriage only if Jayakumar converted,“ police said.
 
 Finally, Jayakumar ended the relationship, police quoted Lidia as saying. After a few months, Lidia, through some of her neighbours, learnt that Jayakumar's family was looking for a girl for him. Lidia tried to meet Jayakumar, but in vain. So she decided to deface him, police said.
 
 Lidia, who knew Jayakumar visited a temple on   every Monday, went there with her cousin Sunil Kumar in a car. Around 5pm, Jayakumar and a family member arrived on his bike. Lidia rushed towards him and sprayed acid on his face before attacking him with a surgical blade.
 
 She fled the spot while passersby rushed Jayakumar to a nearby hospital, police said.
 
 Based on a complaint from Jayakumar, cops picked up Lidia from a relative's house.
 
 
 
 
