KOTA: Teachers Oppose PPP Mode In Schools

 Amid active involvement of government teachers in activities, which have nothing to do with teaching, the results in   are most likely to be poorer in the ongoing session.
 
 The ongoing session is almost halfway through, yet not even one-fourth syllabus in schools has been completed nor have all syllabus books been issued to students. The state government's decision to have publicprivate partnership (PPP) model in government schools, that too in ongoing academic secession, has further distracted teachers.
 
 The school students are asked questions from over 75 percent of the syllabus in half-yearly exams but currently only 30 percent of the syllabus could be completed in government schools, said  , a senior teacher in a government school here. Firstly, non-acade mic activities and various national programmes in schools engage teachers with little time left to teach students, he said. Sharma added that even those teachers whose performance is outstanding are handed over clerical works like writing cash books, monitoring hostels, etc.
 
 The state government's recent decision to put government schools on PPP mode has also distracted the teachers' attention, said Kapil Vijay, another teacher. He added rumours about PPP mode are there in almost every government school, which has disturbed the teachers, as well as the students.The government schools this year are not likely to maintain the progress and improvement in results that they have maintained in the last few years, he added.
 
 The government's decision to put well performing government schools onto PPP mode is certainly unfair and a step towards commercialization of education that would adversely affect children from poor and underprivileged sections of the society, believes  , principal of a senior secondary school in  .
 
 The state government should avoid experimenting with education and at least no decision on education and teaching should be made effective during the ongoing academic session, Goyal said expressing her apprehension of poorer results in government schools this year.
 
