JALANDHAR: Hours after Donald Trump signed the order barring entry to refugees and citizens from several  , Sikhs were up against the use of a turbaned man's picture by a media organization along with a tweet on the  .

 The photo was used under the headline ‘Trump signs executive order to keep ‘Islamic terrorists' out of US'. Ironically, the picture was from an interfaith event held earlier to denounce anti-Muslim proposals. The picture was later removed from the twitter handle by USA Today with a clarification following protests by Sikhs across the world.
 
 Ludhiana-based Harjinder Singh Kukreja, who was among the first ones to notice the wrong depiction, tweeted to USA Today: "Showing a Sikh man under headline about ‘radical Islamic terrorism' will add to more ignorance about Sikh turban and beard". This particular tweet was retweeted 1,200 times.
 
 Simran Jeet Singh, a professor at Trinity University, tweeted: "Using a photo of a Sikh for this tweet is inappropriate and harmful. Will you please delete it?"
 
 USA Today later responded and tagged Kukreja's handle @SinghLions tweeting: "Photo was from an interfaith event denouncing anti-Muslim proposals, but with that headline it wasn't clear. We've changed it."
 
 While twitterati took a dig at the wrong depiction, some demanded an apology also. "Where's the apology? And the headline "wasn't clear"? It was. It labelled a Sikh man as terrorist."
 
 "Not that it would be better if it were accurate targeting, but that's a Sikh turban," tweeted Zeynep Tufekci.
 
 
 
 
 On January 20, another major news organization had depicted a Sikh's picture while reporting Trump's statement against Islamic terrorism. "We will unite world against "radical Islamic terrorism", Trump says – tweeted NBC News. The organization later removed it following protests from the Sikh community.
 
 Hours after Donald Trump signed the order barring entry to refugees and citizens from several Muslim nations, Sikhs were up against the use of a turbaned man's picture by a media organization along with a tweet on the US president's decision.The photo was used under the headline `Trump signs executive order to keep `Islamic terrorists' out of US'. Ironically, the picture was from an in terfaith event held earlier to denounce anti-Muslim proposals. The picture was later removed from the twitter handle by USA Today with a clarification following protests by Sikhs across the world.
 
 Ludhiana-based Harjin der Singh Kukreja, who was among the first ones to notice the wrong depiction, tweeted to USA Today: “Showing a Sikh man under headline about `radical Islamic terrorism' will add to more ignorance about Sikh turban and beard“. This particular tweet was retweeted 1,200 times.
 
 Simran Jeet Singh, a professor at Trinity University , tweeted: “Using a photo of a Sikh for this tweet is inappropriate and harmful. Will you please delete it?“ Several America-based Sikhs also opposed Trump's order.
 
 “I may not be a Muslim, but I oppose the #MuslimBan. We should treat all people with dignity and respect,“ Simran Jeet Singh said in one of his several tweets in reaction to the ban put by the US president. USA Today later responded and tagged Kukreja's handle @SinghLions tweeting: “Photo was from an interfaith event denouncing anti-Muslim proposals, but with that headline it wasn't clear. We've changed it.“
 
 Responding to the tweet, he, however, accused the publication of “beating around the bush“ and asked to apologize.
 
 While twitterati took a dig at the wrong depiction, some demanded an apology also. “Where's the apology?
 And the headline “wasn't clear“? It was. It labelled a Sikh man as terrorist.“
 
 “Not that it would be better if it were accurate targeting, but that's a Sikh turban,“ tweeted Zeynep Tufekci.
 
