DEHRADUN: Ending days of speculation and suspense, the Congress party on Sunday afternoon announced its first list of 63 candidates from the state. According to observers, the list has the stamp of CM   written all over it as not only allies PDF have been accommodated – which was a bone of contention between the CM and   chief   who was opposed to it – but also BJP dissidents who were perceived as winning candidates.

 Rawat would be contesting from two seats of Kichha in Udham Singh Nagar district and Haridwar Rural of Haridwar district. This is for the first time when a sitting CM of Uttarakhand would be contesting from two seats. The mystery around the candidature of Upadhyay too ended with the declaration of the list. Upadhyay, who till now was the face of the party from Tehri seat, has been shifted to Sahaspur constituency of Dehradun district as Congress nominee.
 
 The two PDF legislators Mantri Prasad Naithani and Harish Chandra Durgapal, who had expressed desire to contest under the party banner, have been given ticket from Devprayag and Lal Kuan respectively.
 
 Four BJP members – Rajkumar, Suresh Chandra Jain, Shailendra Singh Rawat and Suneeta Bajwa – who were denied ticket by the party have been accommodated in the party list. While Rajkumar has been made the Congress nominee from Purola, Jain is the party candidate from Roorkee, Shailendra from Yamkeshwar and Bajwa from Sitarganj.
 
 The two BJP MLAs who had stood with the Congress during the political turmoil – Bhim Lal Arya and Dan Singh Bandari – too have been given the party ticket. While Arya is party candidate from Ghansali, Bhandari got the ticket from Bhimtal.
 
 Besides Rawat and Upadhyay, the other prominent names in the list are state cabinet ministers Indira Hridayesh (Haldwani), Dinesh Aggarwal (Dharampur), Navprabhat (Vikas Nagar), Rajendra Bhandari (Badrinath) and Pritam Singh (Chakrata) all of whom had won from these seats in 2012. 
 
 Out of the 25 sitting MLAs of Congress, the ticket of only Sundar Lal Mandrwal has been cancelled and in his place Nawal Kishore has been given the ticket.
 
 Lt Gen T P S Rawat, who had contested as Uttarakhand Raksha Morcha from Lansdowne seat and stood second, has been named as Congress candidate from the constituency. 
 
 Upadhyay termed it a balanced list in which women and youth have been given the priority. Out of the 63 candidates, Congress has given ticket to nine. He told TOI, “After ticket distribution some will be happy and other may not be content, but this is a balanced list made while keeping several factors in mind.” Upadhyay denied the domination of any leader in preparing the list and claimed that the list had been made after several round of discussions among the senior leaders.
 
 State Congress women chief Sarita Arya has got the ticket from Nainital, Vijaypal Singh Sajwan from Gangotri, Harish Dhami from Dharchula, Jeet Ram from Tharali and Ansuya Prasad Maikhuri from Karnprayag, Mayukh Mahar from Pithoragarh, Govind Singh Kunjwal from Jageshwar, Vikram Singh Negi from Pratapnagar, Mamta Rakesh from Bhagwanpur, Furkhan Ahmed from Piran Kaliyar, Nawal Kishore from Pauri, Ganesh Godiyal from Srinagar, Surendra Singh Negi from Kotdwar, Mayukh Mahar from Pithorgarh, Narayan Ram Arya from Gangolihat, Lalit Mohan Singh Pharswan, Madan Singh Bisht from Dwarhat, Manoj Tiwari from Almora, Hemesh Kharwal from Champavat, Sanjay Dobhal from Yamunotri, Manoj Rawat from Kedarnath, Bhim Lal Arya from Ghansal, Himanshu Bijalwan from Narendra Nagar, Suryakant Dhasmana from Dehradun Cantt, Godavri Thalp from Mussoorie, Rajpal Kharola from Rishikesh.
 
 
