PUNE: When marketing and sales professionals   and Vandita Kedia Purohit started expanding their business, they began looking for an office space but the steep cost of renting and maintaining an office proved to be a dampner. That's when they thought of opening an office and sharing it with others.

 In October 2015, the duo opened `Daftar', a co-working space on Baner Pashan Link Road, and within a few months, filled up every vacant space inside with people from diverse professional backgrounds.
 
 The idea of co-working has caught on in the city and there are already more than half a dozen of co-working offices spread across all corners, from   to Magarpatta, Baner to Deccan. While a bunch of them have mushroomed around the IT Parks, there are also those operating in residential pockets and around popular hangout spots, thus catering to all sorts of professionals.
 
 The concept works well for all those who need an office space, but do not want the hassle of paying for electricity , fixing the Internet or fretting over the ink in the printer. It also serves the purpose of those who work only for a part of the day , or have fluid work styles. In Pune, like in the rest of the world, the idea has also been lapped up by start-ups and small teams which have their head offices in other cities.
 
 The number of players specializing in co-working office spaces across India is expected to surpass 100 sooner rather than later, estimates Nitin Bhasin, managing director (markets), JLL India. “The biggest benefit these spaces offer to clients is a cohesive and synergised environment along with business networking opportunities. Moreover, co-working players organize many corporate events for their clients to socialise formally ,“ he said.
 
 For funded start-up Cardekho.com, the concept provided the most convenient way for its team in the city to plug in their computers and get to work. Describing the benefits of a co-working space, the portal's content editor Kartikeya Singhee said, “It's a tension free way to concentrate purely on one's work as the upkeep of the office is the responsibility of the proprietor of the property. Besides, one gets to meet people of different age groups and from diverse backgrounds, which add a lot of perspective to one's outlook. At our office, we celebrate festivals and organise parties as well, so the overall mood is always upbeat“.
 
 It's immensely better than working out of cafes or even from one's home, said Trushna Bhatt, a freelance writer who too started working out of a coworking space in July last year.“Earlier I was spending thousands of rupees every month on buying multiple cups of coffee just to sit in a coffee shop.Operating out of home just doesn't create the right mood for working. Working out of a shared space has helped me network with a lot of different people. Besides, whenever I need to concentrate hard, I can easily sit in one of the quiet corners of the office,“ she said. Adi Vora, tech-lead for Indonesian fin-tech startup   and his eight-member team in the city , initially worked out of home. With coordination proving to be difficult, he decided to rent a corner in a coworking facility . “We wanted to sit together to be able to work more efficiently , but didn't want to spend too much money on setting up a full-fledged office. We are comfortable here, and even get to mingle with a lot of people from other diverse fields,“ Vora said.
 
