CHENNAI: In a bid to identify and recognise key influencers in the fintech ecosystem, Zone Startups India (ZSI) has come up with F20 - India FinTechChangeMakers List. 

 About 20 personalities have been identified as changemakers or those who have created an impact in the fintech landscape. From entrepreneurs like Adhil Shetty of Bankbazaar, Vijay Shekhar Sharma of Paytm to bureaucrats like Amitabh Kant, CEO, NITI Aayog and   with the India stacks initiative, several well-known faces are part of this list. The 20 changemakers have been recognised as part of Fintegrate Zone, a thought leadership conclave underway in Mumbai.
 
 Others selected as part of F20 are   (led the team behind BHIM app), Sanjay Swamy (founder of Ezetap and  , partner with Prime Venture Partners), Amit Goel (founder of Let’s Talk Payments), Freecharge’s Kunal Shah, Capital Float’s founder Gaurav Hinduja, NPCI head AP Hota, Sony Joy of the Chillr and Startup Village fame, Sampad Swain from Instamojo, Harshvardhan Lunia of Lendingkart, Sucharita Mukherjee from IFMR, Avtar Monga who shaped IDFC’s transformation to a mass retail bank,  , cofounder, iSPIRT, Razorpay’s Shashank Kumar Mobikwik’s   of mswipe and Abhishek Sinha who launched Eko India Financial Services.
 
 “Through the F20 list, we are recognizing the achievements of Fintech’s foremost changemakers across the continuum of the ecosystem that includes; policy makers, entrepreneurs, corporates and community leaders,” said Ajay Ramasubramanian, director, Zone Startup India.
 
 In curation of the list, the changemakers were evaluated on multiple parameters based on their initiatives, social and fintech ecosystem Influence, age, digital impression and recognition. PwC acted as the research audit partner, Indian School of Business was the research methodology partner while ResearchFox Consulting managed the market research.
 
 Vivek Belgavi, fintech leader, PwC says "PwC is committed towards developing Indian FinTech ecosystem. Initiatives such as Fintegrate Zone and F20 Changemakers create a closely knit community of FinTech leaders and provide recognition to people who have been instrumental in creating and fostering India's FinTech ecosystem." 
 
 "These are not just awards. The idea is to have a ready reckoner of people who truly understand the fintech landscape, who have created an impact. For those keen on working in the area of fintech, this is a list of people they must know," said Ramasubramanian.
 
