NAGPUR: Janmanch, a social organization, has uncovered poor quality work in Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) cement road project on the   patch between Reshimbagh Square and Old Shukrawari Square on Thursday.

 On the lines of the ‘Sinchan Shodh Yatra’, Janmanch has launched public audit of cement roads being constructed by NMC and this was their second such inspection. “The cement road should be repaired or demolish, there is no other alternative,” said vice president Amitabh Pawde while leading the team.
 
 While observing the fissures on the road surface, which should have a lifespan of 25-30 years, Pawde pointed out a longitudinal crack of 22.5 meters and diagonal one of 14.5 meters whose width ranged from 4 to 6 inches.
 
 The tender had been issued to  , and construction started in 2011 and ended in 2012, when the road was thrown open for traffic. However, on paper the project completion date is January 2018. In this case, there is confusion whether the road’s 5-year defect liability period started in 2012, or will start in January 2018.
 
 NMC executive engineer Narendra Borkar kept mum about the defect liability period, which is five years from the operational start, as he could not say whether this project could be considered complete.
 
 “In a press conference recently, NMC denied any major damage to panels of concrete pavement roads across the city and defended the faults citing norms of Indian Road   (IRC),” said Janmanch president Anil Kilor, who is also president of High Court Bar Association (HCBA). He said, “NMC asserted that cracks upto 1,000 mm are permissible but the ones we spotted are way beyond the limit and should have been checked earlier.”
 
 Kilor also pointed out a portion of back-up bar on the surface of the road, which should not be visible even superficially in reality.
 
 Pawde added, “The back-up bar must lie underneath a 1cm layer of joint sealant, which is absent, and it is clearly noticeable, which suggests that there is something fishy in the process of construction.”
 
 Revealing the IRC norms, he said that slabs with deep cracks are totally unacceptable as it amounts to structural failure. Besides, other cracks which are likely to progress in depth with time are considered serious in nature.
 
 Borkar said, “We have already approached Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) for quality analysis and seeking remedial suggestions.”
 
 However, the site order record and invoices were not produced before Janmanch. The cost of the project was not revealed too, stating that the contract was given to multiple companies and overall figure is yet to be calculated. 
 
 “We did not dig much into the technical details as contract tender certificate (CTC) was not provided. Once we receive it, we will efficiently scrutinize the situation,” said Pawde.
 
 He said every panel has cracks. The poor quality works will cause permanent damage it not fixed before the monsoons, moreover, it is not economically viable to undertake repairs. The kerbstone and medians are also prone to damage. Drainages are choked on both sides and water-logging could become a big problem.
 
 Janmanch members Sharad Patil, Naresh Kshirsagar, Prakash Itankar, Manohar Radke, Kishor Gulane, Rajeev Jagtap, Pranaya Itankar, and others were also present.
 
 Janmanch is likely to conduct their next audit at the cement road stretch from Pratap Nagar to Khamla Chowk on Saturday.
 
