Lakshmikantha.BK

 Mysuru: Siddaramanahundi was in no mood to savour its son’s fifth and final budget in his present term. The village, where   was born and brought up, had cheered his ascension as chief minister only four years ago. Today, it’s in the grip of a severe drought that has left no walk of life untouched.
 
 So severe is the crisis that Ramapura and Varuna canals, which provide water to the fields of Siddaramanahundi, about 24km from Mysuru, are running dry. This has forced villagers to shift from their staple sugarcane and paddy crop to millet, that is less water-intensive. Borewells dug by the gram panchayat too have gone dry, leaving the villagers nowhere to go to meet the water requirements for agricultural activities.
 
 GP member Girish L said six borewells drilled recently have been of no help as the groundwater table has plummeted. “We used to get water at a depth of 100ft-150ft, but we now have to dig deeper than 200ft. Only those with their own borewells are cultivating sugarcane and paddy,” he rued.
 
 The village, though, isn’t staring at a drinking water crisis. Manjunath H, a local leader, said, “The multi-village water supply scheme provides drinking water to 39 villages, including Siddaramanahundi. Water is pumped from Kapila river and stored in an overhead tank,” he said.
 
 The panchayat arranges for water tankers when the tank becomes empty. The rural development and panchayat raj department has set up the D Devaraj Urs drinking water unit, wherein villagers can get 20 litres of water for Rs 2.
 
 Drought has also hit dairy farming and cattle raring. With the absence of water affecting the milk yield, the villagers are vociferously demanding a fodder bank.
 
 Siddaramanahundi has concrete roads, a government hospital, post office, government primary and high school, pre-university college, boys’ hostel, police outpost, under-construction library, Kaveri Grameena Bank and SBM branches, thanks to its high-profile son.
 
 Box: Panchayat members elated
 
 Though most villagers were not glued to their TV sets watching the budget presentation, a motley group of leaders was seen cheering Siddaramaiah’s speech on TV at the panchayat office. “The increase in allowances for panchayat members and office-bearers is a welcome decision. But the CM should have sanctioned funds for a cricket stadium of international standards in Mysuru. That would have given a boost to the airport and allied activities,” Manjunath said.
 
 
