With municipal elections in Panchkula scheduled next year, controversies in the Panchkula municipal corporation are on a rise. Campaigns by both BJP and Congress are on. The ongoing blame game between the city   Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia and the local   Gian Chand Gupta is making matters worse. As, Wednesday marked the third day of protest by the mayor who has sat with over 13 councillors and local residents outside MC office in Sector 14 and has decided to continue her protest till development works take off, both Ahluwalia and Gupta opened up to TOI about the controversy so far...

 In conversation with state minister cum local MLA Gian Chand Gupta
 
 Mayor accuses you of being responsible for the entire controversy in MC so far..
 
 Am I asking mayor to threaten and misbehave with officers? She is making false allegations against me.
 
 Mayor says local MLA is influencing officers so that they do not indulge in any development work and this is a part of his campaign for the MC elections next year..
 
 How can I force officers of MC? Four MC commissioners have been changed in the past one year and all officers accused mayor of threatening them. If mayor doesn’t do any development work, I will run campaign against her. It is the work of the opposition party to run campaign against opposite parties if they don’t work.
 
 Development works are stuck in MC. What is your take?
 
 Where is development? Mayor failed to execute five basic development works for the city in the past four years of her term including roads, stray dogs and cattle menace, cleanliness, encroachment and ban on polythene in the city. 
 
 So, what is the solution?
 
 The only solution is that mayor should amend her behavior with the officers if she really wants development in the city.
 
 What do you say about mayor’s performance so far?
 
 Not even a single development work was taken up and finished by the mayor in the past 4-year tenure. In the recent house meeting, she called both of her sons. Even the spouse of councillors were present there. No decorum is being followed in the meetings.
 
 In conversation with mayor Upinder Kaur Ahluwalia
 
 What are the main reasons behind you protesting with councillors outside MC office for past three days?
 
 We pass agendas of development works of the city in the house meeting but the executive officers of MC either get transferred or get associated with the local politicians and leaders. Otherwise, we have sufficient fund. No development can get stalled here if officers are willing to perform. We have asked local residents to join us in the protest so that officers start working.
 
 Why are you involved in controversies with officers for past one year?
 
 Local MLA and leaders of city are backing the MC officers. BJP wants no development here so that they can run campaign against us for the next year’s MC elections.
 
 What makes you think that local MLA and leader are conspiring?
 
 MC elections are next year and by blowing up such controversies, BJP wants to run a campaign against Congress. They are also elected people like I am and their aim should be the development of the city, not politics.
 
 Like you said, officers are not working. Then, how do you ensure development works in the city?
 
 I have submitted the proceedings of the house meeting to the MC commissioner as well as to the urban local bodies. The officers have to complete the work on the agendas passed in the house meeting whether they were present in the meeting or not. They are clearly running away from their duties.
 
 
