Chennai: The assembly on Monday witnessed a heated debate over shortage of essential items in the public distribution system. The main opposition DMK alleged that the state failed to supply essential commodities like dal and palm oil under special   for the past three months, despite its claims that it has allocated Rs 5,500 crore annually towards food subsidy.

 The DMK held state-wide protests charging the state government with non-performance in PDS recently, leading to large-scale detention of cadres and leaders. Participating in the budget debate, Krishnagiri MLA T Senguttuvan said the crisis was huge in the Cauvery delta region, where the agriculture sector was already experiencing distress. “There will be an additional burden of Rs 684 crore if the Centre’s subsidy for sugar is stopped from April. Are you then going to shut down the PDS outlets?” the MLA demanded to know, adding that the supply of foodgrain by the previous DMK regime went off without a hitch.
 
 Reiterating the government’s commitment to continue universal PDS, and the special PDS for which tenders had been floated recently, food minister R Kamaraj intervened to say that there was a hitch in the supply when O Panneerselvam was chief minister. “There was a delay in the process of extending special PDS after its term ended in December,” the minister said, setting off heated exchanges. The DMK MLA reminded the minister that he headed the food ministry even during OPS tenure. “The state’s reversal of stand on the National Food Security Act, when Jayalalithaa was hospitalized, will lead to additional financial burden of Rs 2,500 crore,” Senguttuvan said.
 
 Energy minister P Thangamani said the state did not oppose NFSA, but endorsed the scheme after concerns raised by the state were acceded to. In its communication to the state government in October 2016, the Union government said there was no further allocation of food grain would be made to the state under APL and BPL category. The Centre also conveyed to the state that minimum support price-derived rate for rice was Rs 22.54 per kg, while the state was getting 15.15 lakh MT of rice annually under APL category at Rs 8.30 per kg. The state joined NFSA in October, after Kerala joined. 
 
 
