Mumbai: The Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank is facing a tough time due to the dismal response to its proposal to sale 15 cooperative sugar factories to recover Rs 883 crore in outstanding loans. Demonetisation and a crisis in the sugar industry are being cited as reasons for the same.

 A senior bank official told TOI that since there was absolutely no response to the proposal, a fresh attempt to offload the cooperative sugar factories. “We had issued an advertisement for the sale of machinery and land measuring 2,200 acres, but there are no takers,” he said.
 
 Elaborating on the sale of immovable and movable properties in terms of the Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, the official said the bank has called for separate tenders for each sugar factory for sale of machinery and land. “We have fixed the reserved price at Rs 473 crore. Once the offers are received, they are evaluated by a high-level committee. We had no option, but to reject all the offers since they were much below the reserved price,” he said.
 
 A state cooperation department official said an attempt was made to sell the land to some leading industrial houses as well as the state-run industrial development corporation, but there was no response on the grounds that there is no policy to procure land by a tendering process. 
 
 Most of the cooperative sugar factories are directly or indirectly controlled by leading politicians, mostly belonging to Congress or NCP. “The state cooperative bank was directly controlled by NCP, as a result, loans were disbursed quite liberally and it was not evaluated if there will be repayment within the stipulated period,” he said.
 
 In the wake of a key report of the Reserve Bank of India and the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, then chief minister Prithviraj Chavan had appointed veteran bureaucrats to streamline the bank. “After administrators took over the reins, there was marked improvement in the bank’s performance,” he said.
 
 
