CHENNAI: The death of a 68-year-old man waiting in a queue on Tuesday to collect old age pension of Rs 1,000 brings to the fore the plight of pensioners who are among those hit hardest by the  , post-demonetisation.

  had been waiting with 350 other pensioners outside the corporation zone IX, ward 126 office at Mandaveli when he collapsed. Police said the queue was unusually long as payments were not made for two months. “Last month also we came here on the 2nd and 3rd. Officials just bolted the doors and told us to come later.
 
 We have been coming here every week but they gave us no update,“ said C Lakshmiamma, a pensioner.The revenue department disburses most of the pensions under the Social Security Scheme through banks. As on March 31, 2016, of the 30.74 lakh beneficiaries, 23.46 lakh were paid through banks and the rest through the department of post. the department of post.
 
 SBI which is among the banks selected for disbursement, said despite the crunch, it had been prioritising payment of cash for social security schemes. Officials and banks did not respond to requests for comment on the plight of pensioners at Mandaveli. People in the neighbourhood said it was a Chennai-based public sector bank that would send its business correspondents for disbursal of cash. 
 
 Local DMK member P Babu said Subramanian had been waiting for his pension since 7am, though cash is disbursed after 9.30-10 am. “He had come early and stayed put as he did not want to lose his place in the queue. He suddenly fainted and his whole body was drenched in sweat,“ said N Velammal, 72, another pensioner. 
 
 Dr Lavanya from Vedakumari Hospital, where Subramanian was taken, said the “patient was brought dead“. “The family could not give his exact name and proof of identification. So we could not issue death certificate,“ she said.On Tuesday , after the death of Subramanian, officials did nothing to ease the pain of senior citizens. Local people and police personnel were seen distributing water packets to the elderly people who were waiting.
 
