LUCKNOW: The  's war room for the election battle is running on full throttle. In line with SP chief  's image of a tech-savvy politician, the war room is equipped with state-of-the-art gadgetry aimed at pushing forward the party's campaign and seeking feedback from the people, 24x7. 

 The 360-degree approach of campaigning, real time feedback on the party's manifesto from across the state, reach of party candidates up to booth level through 1.6 lakh booth-level workers and a host of social media platforms and call centres are what make this war room different from any other.
 
 There are five sections in the 'war room'-a three-room office in the bungalow which houses  , adjacent to Samajwadi Party's office on  . These are research and analysis, social media, media monitoring, digital content (audio-video) and feedback through call centers. Campaign preparation for SP chief Akhilesh Yadav is also looked after here. The CM is provided with details of hyper local issues of the area where he has to address public meetings to help him strike a direct connect with the people during his speech. 
 
  "We are directly in touch with candidates and district-level party workers across the state through our call centres, not only to collect inputs but also to send out party directives related to the campaign," says war room chief Aashish Yadav, who has been a communication expert for government programs with the BBC for 12 years before deciding to work for "boss" (Akhilesh). 
 
 A native of Jhansi, Aashish gave up his job to push forward the SP campaign because of the party's "socialist ideology and development agenda" that he supports as a "UP boy". 
 
 "Take it as my contribution to the well-being of my state," he says. Next to him is Anshuman Sharma, who, too, has quit his BBC job to join Aashish. Heading the research wing of the war room, Anshuman, who has done his schooling from Meerut, heads the team associated with planning and feedback of the party campaign in general and that of the SP chief in particular. 
 
 "For Wednesday's rally at Dhaurahra, we had gathered inputs like problems of the local people, their demands and reach of the candidate," Anshuman says, adding that before Akhilesh left to address the public meeting, his team provided him with details like the demand of the locals for a road between Kasta and Dhaurahra. In his speech a few hours later, Akhilesh promised them that road. 
 
 Immediately after Akhilesh's three public rallies in Lakhimpur, the research wing got down to collect feedback from the people through booth-level workers. A report was prepared highlighting the high points of the event and the patches which need special attention.
 
 Described as the "eyes and ears" of the war room is the social media section which is reaching out to some 1.2 crore people, claims the unit in charge Ahmed Aftab Naqvi. 
 
 A native of Lucknow who was running one of India's largest independent digital agencies from Mumbai, Aftab says, "It is the massive reach of social media that makes our job more challenging. We are reaching out to 1.2 crore people through various social media platforms and the campaign is shaping up well," he says. He predictions are clear: This elections, social media campaigns and their impact will break all previous election records.
 
 The media monitoring cell keeps a track of all the development through the day across news channels, newspapers and online news. It prepares a team of party spokespersons for debates on television channels. 
 
 On Wednesday, the team was busy sending out notes to spokespersons on how to respond to BJP leader Vinay Katiyar's comment on  . The brief sent out to the spokespersons carried a footnote: Adhere to positive campaigning and talk of SP government's initiatives for women in UP like 1090 helpline and women's pension.
 
