NEW DELHI: In what can be seen as a confidence-building measure among  , the department is learnt to have initiated the process to procure  . In the first lot, 2,450 superior-quality vests will be procured.

 Police commissioner   is believed to have issued instructions to officers for giving top priority to cops’  . The department is expected to complete the procurement by April, sources said. 
 
 The jackets being bought are of level 3+, which will protect the   from bullets fired from weapons like AK rifles, sten machine guns, MP-5, carbine and Insas. The new vests are likely to cost around Rs 1 lakh each. The existing ones were bought for Rs 40,000 each.
 
 Explaining the features of the new jackets, an officer said they were water and fireproof. Even exposure to ultra violet ray leaves no impact on them. The vests will be available in “extra large” size apart from large and standard sizes. Last February, TOI had reported how a 90,000-strong police force was managing with only 300 bulletproof vests. 
 
 Most of them were given to the personnel from the New Delhi district, Special Cell and the crime branch. 
 
 These jackets are not just outdated but also heavy, weighing around 11kg a piece, an officer said, adding that it was extremely difficult to put on these jackets for hours. 
 
 Following the TOI report, the cops had planned to procure 1,000 jackets last year, but the plan did not materialise. 
 
 The absence of safety gear like bulletproof jackets has exposed the vulnerability of the cops to attacks by criminals and terrorists. 
 
 While top Mumbai police officer   fell victim to terrorists’ bullets during 26/11, Mohan Chand Sharma of   was killed during the 2008 Batla House encounter. 
 
 In 2013, a Delhi court had expressed concerns over the city’s ill-equipped cops after which the Delhi Police had begun efforts to procure bulletproof jackets for its personnel. 
 
 The police brass woke up to the need to procure more safety gear last January when a cop was gunned down by two criminals on bike in outer Delhi’s Alipur. Though senior officers had decided that cops on patrol duty should wear these jackets to protect themselves if attacked by criminals, plans to procure them had been stuck in red-tape in the past year.
 
 
