PATNA: Chief minister   on Monday said “a few” Bihar politicians were out to malign the state’s image by raising trivial issues like seating arrangement at the recently-concluded Prakashotsava function.

 “All the three main players of Punjab assembly polls — Delhi CM  , Punjab CM   and Congress leader Captain   — attended the celebrations and praised the Bihar government by saying they never saw such grand arrangements for any Sikh event anywhere. But a few people of Bihar are asking why RJD chief Lalu Prasad was made to sit on the ground,” Nitish told reporters after his ‘Lok Samvad’ programme where he takes suggestions from public on issues of governance and administration.
 
 Nitish said Prakashotsava, highly successful as it was, helped Bihar refurbish its image on the foreign shores from where Sikh pilgrims had arrived for the celebrations. “The grand arrangements underlined the state’s potential to organise such massive events,” Nitish said and berated the tendency among certain people belonging to the state to derive pleasure from tarnishing the image of own state.
 
 Though the CM didn’t name any politician, he was apparently referring to RJD national vice-president Raghuvansh Prasad Singh and BJP’s senior functionary Sushil Kumar Modi, who had earlier questioned why Lalu was denied a seat at the podium from where PM   and CM Kumar addressed the main Prakashotsava function at Gandhi Maidan on January 5.
 
 Trying to put an end to the controversy, Nitish said the sitting arrangements were made by the gurdwara management committee as per the age-old tradition of the Sikh community. “People sit on the ground at any religious event of Sikhs. There were no chairs even on the main podium,” Nitish said and added people indulging in false propaganda and blaming the state government for the seating arrangements should better mend their ways.
 
 Nitish once again ruled out any rift among the three grand alliance constituents, saying the RJD, Congress and JD (U) were together and that was why his government was running smoothly.
 
 
