Lucknow: Before his arrest, at least six cases of oil pilferage from pipelines laid around Mathura refinery were reported in the past five years and 17 persons were arrested. UP Police special task force on Saturday arrested Manoj Goyal, the alleged mastermind of the syndicate that stole lakhs of litres of oil. The syndicate was targeting the oil network for almost a decade by puncturing pipes.   is director of Firozabad branch of GD Goenka School, owns three hotels and several more educational institutes. 

 When daily operations of   got impacted due to low pressure in Jalandhar, 535km away from Mathura, engineers deployed at Jalandhar facility sensed something was wrong.
 
 On February 17, large-scale bunkering was detected in the fields alongside the   between UP and Punjab. Excavating a 100-metre-long tunnel, 15-feet under the fields, Goyal had set up taps to divert oil through hoses to underground oil tankers created inside a house near the field. Oil tankers were found parked near the house at the time of raid. A private SUV of a sub-inspector posted in Agra was also found at the spot.
 
 Indian Oil lodged an FIR against unknown people at Highway police station in Mathura district the same day. Probing the case, police found tankers deployed by Goyal, who owns seven fuel stations in Agra and Mathura.
 
 “In November last year, Goyal started offering diesel at a discount of Rs 1 at his pumps. He had probably begun stealing oil almost a year back,” said IG Agra zone, Sujeet Pandey, who supervised the probes. Police learned that Goyal had been exploiting the oil distribution network for the past five years with the help of village heads and those residing in areas around the pipelines.
 
 Local police took no action and on February 23 SSP STF Amit Pathak was asked to investigate. Pathak said that on a tip-off, Goyal was arrested from Agra-Bharatpur highway on Saturday night.
 
 Indian Oil has yet to come up with details of losses it suffered, while police officers handling the case said the theft would go up to over Rs 125 crore. “We have procured details of his nine bank accounts. Goyal operated seven pumps and his close aide who had been arrested owned five pumps. Together, they possess 50 tankers under fictitious names,” said Pandey.
 
 Pandey said as evidence they have taken account books into possession, recovered seven oil tankers used for transport stolen oil to different fuel stations, verified sale deeds of properties sold and purchased around the unit. Role of a sub-inspector and three policemen was under scanner. Two senior staffers of the oil major may also be questioned, added Pandey.
 
 
