LUDHIANA: Claiming to have   to prove that the Congress and the Akali leaders “hobnobbed” ahead of Assembly elections to keep   (LIP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) out of power,   said he would make public the names of leaders from both the parties during the Vidhan Sabha session, with proof.

 Speaking to the TOI on Tuesday, Bains said it was a well-thought-out strategy by both the parties and several of their leaders had met to finalise this game-plan. “We have audio recordings of conversations between prominent leaders of Akali Dal and the Congress. We also have the photographs, CCTV images and videos of late night meetings between the leaders,” he added.
 
 Bains claimed that SAD president Sukhbir Badal had marked 30 seats, which he thought his party could win, and the party workers were asked to put in their best to ensure victory on those seats. “For the remaining seats, he conveyed formal messages, asking supporters to vote for the Congress,” he added. He said if LIP-AAP government had come to power in the state, the Akalis would have been brought to justice for every misdeed.
 
 “They struck a deal with the Congress for saving their skin, as they knew it would do them no harm. This was evident from the fact that immediately after winning, Captain Amarinder Singh gave a statement that he was not going to play the politics of revenge, which clearly implied he would not take any action against Bikram Singh Majithia or Badals for their wrongdoings.”
 
 When asked why he did not raise this issue earlier, Bains claimed, “The proofs have been given to me by people after the results, though I had doubts even before polling day that something was cooking between both the parties. It was not proper to pursue the issue without proofs.”
 
 Bains, who has been re-elected as MLA from Atam Nagar, also claimed that Akalis tried to divert their votes in his constituency towards Congress candidate Kamaljit Karwal, which was evident from the fact that this time SAD’s candidate Gurmeet Kular got about 13,000 votes, whereas last time their candidate Hira Singh Gabria had polled 24,000.
 
 Meanwhile, a Facebook video posted by Bains has gone viral on the social media. In the 7.44-minute video, Bains has alleged that Sukhbir Badal conspired to keep LIP-AAP out of power by making his own cadre vote for the Congress instead of the Akalis on 87 seats, where they had weak candidates. This was in return for saving his Jalalabad seat and father Parkash Singh Badal’s Lambi seat by making Ravneet Bittu and Captain Amarinder Singh contest against them, so that AAP candidates could lose both. Bains also alleged that he has evidence to prove his claims. The video, which was posted by Bains on March 12, has been viewed by 3.36 lakh people and shared more than 6,500 times.
 
 Reacting to the allegations, Akali leader and former chairman of district planning board Jagbir Singh Sokhi said, “Bains was dreaming of getting 100 seats in Punjab. But after facing the reality, he is levelling baseless allegations, which are outcome of his frustration.”
 
 District president of Congress Gurpreet Gogi said, “This is ridiculous. By giving such childish statements, Bains is insulting the voters, who have given their mandate. Moreover, till the time he was in talks with our party before going the AAP way, he did not leave even a single chance to praise the Congress and Captain Amarinder Singh.”
 
