MYSURU: Chief minister Siddaramaiah said on Tuesday that the Congress has zeroed in on its candidate for  . However, he did not reveal the name of the candidate. 

 He said the name of the candidate will be announced once the poll calendar is released by the  . However, he was surprised that the JD(S) has announced its Nanjangud unit chief Kalale Keshavmurthy as the nominee for the bypoll. JD(S) state unit chief H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday announced that Keshavmurthy will be the party’s nominee during a party workers’ meeting convened to devise strategy for the bypoll. 
 
 While political activities have picked up in   segment after the APMC polls last week, Congress has not yet announced its candidate. Though there are talks in political circles that Keshavmurthy is being lured to join the Congress, the JD(S) leader has said that he will not quit the party. Keshavmurthy campaigned for the Congress-backed candidates in the APMC polls last week.
 
 The bypoll is necessitated due to resignation of former minister   from the assembly after he fell out with Siddaramaiah over recasting of the cabinet. Prasad has joined BJP and the party has announced him as the party’s nominee. When asked about the delay in announcing the candidate, Siddaramaiah said the party will announce its nominee after the poll calender is released. When told that JD(S) has announced Keshavmurthy as its candidate, the CM shot back. “Who told you? Did they announce his candidature?” After he was informed that Keshavmurthy has been projected as the JD(S) nominee, he said Congress is not worried by the opposition parties announcing their candidates well before the poll notification is issued. “We have zeroed in on the candidate and will announce once the poll process begins.”
 
 Sources in Congress said Keshavmurthy is likely to join Congress despite his assertion at the JD(S) workers meeting on Sunday that he will not quit the party. His candidature is likely to be announced shortly after he completes the formalities like joining the party and accepting our membership, they stated.
 
