NAGPUR: In gross violation of Supreme Court directives regarding FIR registration in cognisable offences, Dhantoli police station failed to register a complaint for nearly six months. It was only after the JMFC directed the police to do so, that cops booked some trespassers for criminal conspiracy, forging official documents, and trespassing on others’ property. Lakadganj businessmen Rajesh Thutheja (50), his nephew Sagar (25) and   have been named as accused in the case.

 The court, in its ruling on April 24, made it clear that the allegations levelled by complainant Dr Jayant Pande, consulting neurologist, prima facie show that there is ground to investigate the offence. It directed Dhantoli police station officer in-charge to investigate the allegations made by the complainant.
 
 On November 11, 2016, Dr Pande had lodged a complaint against three persons for illegally occupying his consulting chamber, located on second floor of Rajkamal Complex at Panchsheel Square, Dhantoli. However, the FIR was registered on May 14, only after the court’s directives.
 
 The doctor had locked the chamber after he moved to more spacious premises at  . In April 2002, the doctor and accused entered into a pact to sell the chamber. However, in view of a court case pending in Nagpur High Court against nazul department, an   couldn’t be obtained for many years. Subsequently, the agreement to sale was cancelled by mutual consent on May 25, 2004, and Dr Pande returned the advance money. Thereafter, the chamber was kept locked for next 12 years.
 
 During a casual visit in October last year, Dr Pande was shocked to discover that Purohit was running a computer shop ‘Jupiter Infotech’ from his chamber in alleged connivance with Thutheja. Dr Pande had disconnected his electricity meter in 2009, but when he sought information under RTI Act from MSEDCL, he came to know that Thutheja had applied for a new meter in April 2015 using forged documents, and submitting an affidavit on stamp paper.
 
 When he lodged an FIR with Dhantoli police, they failed to take any action for over four months, thus forcing him to approach the judiciary. Citing apex court directives, Dr Pande said all preliminary investigations must be completed within seven days and the accused could be arrested without any warrant in cognisable offences.
 
