Bengaluru/Mumbai: Private sector lender   announced on Thursday it has acquired Snapdeal’s payments arm   in an all-cash deal for Rs 385 crore ($60 million). This brings to an end many months of negotiations   has had with multiple players in its attempt to sell its asset to generate capital. Snapdeal had bought FreeCharge for Rs 2,500 crore ($400 million) just two years ago, but has since seen a massive erosion in the value of the mobile wallet firm.

 Axis Bank will take full control of   and its services arm   after the transaction along with getting on board around 250 employees of the payments firm.
 
 Announcing the acquisition, Axis Bank MD & CEO Shikha Sharma said that payments was a space that was changing very fast and agility is important. She said that there was a strong case to continue to maintain FreeCharge as a distinct entity and the bank would engage with the regulator to keep the business separate rather than merge it with the bank. The RBI typically requires banks to conduct all businesses permitted for them within the balance sheet unless a strong case is made for farming out the activity into a separate arm.
 
 Sharma said that while the bank would not mind incurring a cost for customer acquisition, the cash-burn model followed by some fintechs would not work for anyone. 
 
 Earlier, in a presentation, Axis Bank CFO Jairam Sridharan said that the FreeCharge buy helps the bank leapfrog its ‘digital journey’ by multiple years. He added that the deal gives Axis 5.4 crore users and 23 crore transactions, with over 2 lakh merchants.
 
 Over the past year, Snapdeal had been in talks with multiple players to sell FreeCharge as it struggled to raise funds for the mobile wallet independently. At the end of 2016, FreeCharge had been offered $800-900 million valuation by global payments giant  , but the deal did not go through eventually. Since then, the value of FreeCharge has been eroding precipitously as its parent has been unable to ratchet up funds to fight in a market with well-entrenched players like Paytm.
 
 Separately, Snapdeal’s largest investor SoftBank has been pushing for the e-commerce company to merge with its bigger rival Flipkart. Even while this transaction is yet to go through, Snapdeal founders Kunal Bahl and Rohit Bansal have been holding talks with other suitors like online marketplace Infibeam to shore up funds and not take up the $900-million Flipkart offer. 
 
 FreeCharge’s sale to Axis Bank will offer some breathing space to the management of Snapdeal and give it the much-needed cash in the bank to survive without selling to Flipkart. Earlier in the day, Snapdeal’s Bahl tweeted, “Happy to announce the partnership between Axis Bank and FreeCharge. A great institution taking a fantastic business ahead! Kudos to FC team!” 
 
 
