PUNE: A police constable of the Deccan traffic division was knocked down by a two-wheeler on February 22 at   on  . The rider of the scooter was trying to avoid being fined for jumping a traffic signal when the accident occurred.

 Constable   was admitted to a private hospital and remained unconscious for seven hours. Kamathe had also stopped a car, who was speeding along the scooter, as the constable feared the driver would ram into the scooter. After the accident, the car driver took him to a hospital. However, the police have not managed to trace the scooter rider even though the chowk is under   surveillance.
 
 Kamathe was managing traffic at the Rasashala chowk on Karve road on February 22. “Around 7.15pm, I stopped the scooter rider. The signal was green for vehicles heading towards Deccan from Nal Stop chowk. The signal turned yellow and I saw that the scooter rider (along with the pillion) was about to jump the signal. I just moved a step forward and the scooter rider slowed down,” he recalled.
 
 At the same time, Kamathe saw a speeding car following the scooter. “I feared that the car may hit the two wheeler and moved another step on the road, I blew the whistle to stop the car driver, who also halted after applying emergency breaks,” he said.
 
 The two wheeler rider thought that the constable would fine him for halting on the zebra crossing at the signal. Before Kamathe could react, the rider accelerated his vehicle and knocked down Kamathe. “I had no intention to fine him,” he said.
 
 When he fell, Kamathe’s head hit the road causing injuries on his face. The car driver immediately rushed towards the constable. “I was unconscious for about seven hours but later I heard that the same car driver took me to a nearby private hospital,” he said. Kamathe sustained a severe head injury and received four stitches on the face apart from six stitches on his head. 
 
 The incident was reported to senior police officers as well as the local police station. A complaint has been filed with the Deccan Gymkhana police station. The chowk is under CCTV surveillance and the footage is monitored by the police commissioner’s office.
 
 When contacted, deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   said that the traffic branch is studying the CCTV footage and the police will soon provide all details related to the case to the investigating authorities.
 
 Meanwhile, Deccan Gymkhana police confirmed that they have retrieved the footage but they are yet to ascertain the suspects.
 
