MUMBAI: The   has allowed a petition by a city-based businessman and a model seeking framing of guidelines for police while registering a rape or   after a failed relationship to be converted into a  . 

 The petition filed by Firoz Khan (34) and Jasmine Fernandes (20) (names changed on request) questioned the applying of rape charges under section 376 of the IPC in cases where the girl lodges a complaint of sexual assault after a break-up.
 
 Khan and Jasmine were themselves involved in such a case; she had lodged a case against him at   after they broke up. The HC in December 2016 had quashed the case against Khan following an application by Jasmine that she had lodged it in the heat of the moment.
 
 She had also alleged that the complaint was recorded in Marathi by police and was not correctly explained to her. The HC had expressed concern over the number of cases where rape charges have been invoked by a girl against the boy after their relationship sours and mulled the need for guidelines.
 
 "We have noticed that recently the number of such cases where allegation of rape is made, after consensual sexual relationship has failed, is on the rise. While filing a complaint very often it is alleged that because of the assurances and promises were given the (girl) had given consent to have sex and had such an assurance not been given she would not have agreed to have consensual sex. Very often such complaints are filed after both the parties have sex over a long period of time, namely, for six months to couple of years and after the relationship turns sour, such allegations are made.
 
 The police have no other option but to register the offence under section 376 of the IPC since it is a cognizable offence. The accused on many occasions languishes in jail for number of months or years and thereafter the application is filed for quashing," the court had said.
 
 Khan and Jasmine, through their lawyers M Vaswani and S Kode, then filed a petition urging the HC to frame norms for police in such cases where the woman has a consensual sexual relationship with a man for a long period of time, and then alleges rape after they break up.
 
 
