KOLKATA: There was pin-drop silence when actor Shaheb Bhattacharya went up to speak at the   mass of Sonika Simone Singh Chauhan at the St Thomas’ Church on Tuesday afternoon. Seated in the church benches were model-turned-television show presenter Sonika’s relatives. Just next to Shaheb stood the family’s long-time friend and Trinamool MP Derek O’Brien. At a distance, sat actor Vikram Chatterjee’s mother and sister. Sonika had passed away in the wee hours of Saturday in an   on her way back home with Vikram in his car.

 After being entrusted by Sonika’s parents Vijay and Sharon to speak on their behalf, O’Brien said this was the most difficult speech of his life. “Vijay had insisted that Sonika always did everything on her own. From TV shows to modelling assignments, no one was ever called up for giving her work. Though she died only at 27, she has left behind a beautiful legacy.” By dying at this age, Sonika has unknowingly also joined the 27 club. This term is referred to the belief that an unusually high number of personalities in the public eye have died at the age of 27. “She has joined the 27 club which has members like Jimi Hendrix, Jim Morrison and Amy Winehouse among others. Vijay and Sharon have decided to set up the   to touch lives of boys and girls in different ways,” O’Brien said. 
 
 As Sonika’s well-wishers paid their tribute, the likes of educationist Barry O’Brien, filmmaker Sandip Ray’s wife Lalita Ray, designers Abhishek Dutta, Suchismita Dasgupta and Agnimitra Paul, models Jessica, Madhabilata, Usoshie and actors Sudipta Chakraborty, Gaurab Chakraborty and Riddhima Ghosh listened with rapt attention. Vikram’s mother Mallika said, “It’s devastating. My husband and I had visited Sonika’s house the day before. My son is still in trauma”
 
 “She has made me a responsible man. I love you, Sonu, and will continue to love you always,” said Bhattacharya. He then brought out a chit and read out a hand-written note from her. “I will always keep this in my wallet,” he said. 
 
