CHENNAI: Search for the elusive ‘sarakku’ bottle on Sunday led to mad rush at   in the city that survived the Supreme Court’s hammer.

 Several liquor outlets and   in pubs and star hotels   following a Supreme Court ruling that banned the sale of liquor within a 500m radius of state and national highways from April 1.
 
 Tipplers could be seen waiting in serpentine queues as the closure of more than 70 liquor shops on Saturday upped the demand. Police personnel were deployed to regulate the situation in most of the overcrowded shops. The scenario was worse in the suburbs as residents were inconvenienced by the congestion and commotion around Tasmac outlets located near residential settlements.
 
 K Raja has been a regular at the Tasmac shop opposite the Koyambedu bus terminus. On Sunday, he found his way to an outlet off the highway near the Koyambedu metro rail station. He said the SC ruling would lead to more drunken driving as tipplers were forced to travel further for their daily pint.
 
 “I have to return (after drinking) on my motorcycle. There will be police near the bus terminus who will stop and check for drunk driving. It was convenient for me to drink near the bus terminus as I lived nearby. Now, I have to carry extra money to bribe the police,” he said.
 
 Outside a liquor outlet in Perungudi, tipplers complained that the Tasmac employees were forcing them to buy foreign brand. “I had waited for long in the queue. When I reached the counter, I was told cheaper liquor was not available,” said Ravi Prasad.
 
 However, a few Tasmac outlets which did not fit the SC mandate too shut shop leading to confusion. Tasmac managing director Kirlosh Kumar did not respond to TOI’s queries seeking clarity on the situation.
 
 Resto-bars that survived the cull did not witness increased activity. Dennis Arasu, who manages Sudaka on North Boag Road, told TOI that customers who visit star hotel bars were a “niche crowd” and preferred to party post midnight. “Our outlets shut before midnight. So there is no benefit for us,” he said.
 
 
