CHANDIGARH: The   on Wednesday issued notice to the Haryana government on a plea seeking FIR in an alleged scam in pensions distributed under social welfare schemes, including the pension for old aged, widows and handicapped person.

 Justice M M S Bedi of the HC issued the notice after hearing a petition filed by residents of Kurukshetra district.
 
 The petitioner has sought directions to register an FIR in the alleged scam in Kurukshetra district as per various probe reports and to order   probe in the misappropriation of funds by distributing pension to unauthorized persons.
 
 The case would now come up for hearing on May 4.
 
 The counsel for petitioner Pardeep Rapria informed the court that on November 19, 2013, the additional chief secretary Haryana, department of finance, had issued directions to all the concerned officers to register an FIR in case of pension under various social welfare schemes is released to anyone after the death of a person.
 
 Even the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), in its 2013 report, had found serious irregularities and misappropriation in distribution of pensions in Haryana.
 
 Referring to the case of Shahabad in Kurukshetra district, Rapria stated that in August 2015, an inquiry of 383 complained cases revealed huge bungling of funds in distribution of pension amount after which the director general, department of social justice and empowerment had asked the district social welfare Kurukshetra to register an FIR against the erring officials and councillors.
 
 According to the petitioner, in December 2015 the Kurukshetra district social welfare officer asked the Shahabad station house officer (SHO) to register an FIR, but later in January 2016 he asked the police not to register any case. It was alleged that around Rs 935,196 had been misappropriated in Shahabad and even a committee set up by the Kurukshetra deputy commissioner had found huge scam in distribution of pension including involvement of those in head office.
 
 The petitioner argued that despite several probes and inquire, no FIR has been registered against any anyone. He also referred large number of cases of misappropriation of pension funds have been reported in the district Kaithal, Rohtak and Hisar. They pleaded to hand over the matter to CBI for a fair probe.
 
 
