Formed in January this year, Bharosa Cell, a women grievance redressal unit of  , handles all kinds of distress calls from women in emergency situations. According to its data, the cell has received a total of 313 cases solely related to eve-teasing in the month of April, which is the highest they have received so far. Giving insights on this shocking statistics, the in-charge of the cell   says, “While women primarily approach us to seek help in domestic violence, we have noticed that there is a rise in the number of eve-teasing incidents in the city as well. And we are trying our level best to curb this menace.” In order to keep the eve teasers at bay,   is equipped with an all-women patrolling team, known as Damini Squad. One of the officers at the cell elaborates on how the patrolling squad functions as he says, “There are four vans that patrol sensitive areas like youngsters’ hotspots around the city, garden, crowded public places and colleges etc. We get phone calls from women of all age groups and the moment we receive complaints, we direct them to   members who have walkie –talkie sets. In fact, this squad reaches the spot even if the victim calls up the Police Control Room.”

 Besides reacting to the complaints that are received through the helpline number, the officials of the patrolling squad also act promptly if they find any girl being troubled, molested or being eve teased. 
 Another officer of the cell API   says, “While patrolling, if the squad comes across anyone passing lewd comments or harassing girls, the officers immediately take the offenders to the police station and take appropriate legal action. Many a time, the officers of Damini Squad go undercover in civil dress to nab the eve teasers.” 
 
 Without any inhibitions, city girls find us approachable, says, Shirke and adds, “The positive thing what we have noticed is that city girls do not hold back from calling us on the helpline number or approaching us directly whenever they see the patrolling vans. In fact, we are planning to conduct various awareness programmes and trying to involve as many youngsters as possible, so that these incidents can be brought down.”
 
