MOHALI: Indian School of Business (ISB) kicked off its high-profile, two-day   Leadership Summit (ILS) with an address by Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu. In its 15th edition, ISB’s annual leadership conclave played host to around 40 leaders from the fields of politics, business, technology, sports, academia, and entertainment.

 Naidu applauded ISB for its efforts. “I am happy to be here and to interact with students. The theme of this summit, ‘Transforming Tomorrow’, is apt for today,” he said.
 
 He also spoke the ‘5 Ps’ — people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. “We must tap into each other’s strengths and keep adding new chapters to create growth stories,” he said, adding that while India, as a country, had achieved lot and its economy was doing better than that of many countries. “We must look for areas where we have not done well,” he said.
 
 He ended his speech by telling ISB students to “must become job-seekers and job-makers, to make dreams come true and scale new heights”.
 
 Quoting Rigveda, he said: “Stand up, stay awake, and keep learning; and don't stop till your dreams come true.” The speech elicited a standing ovation from the audience.
 
 Punjab governor V P  , minister of state for civil aviation Jayant Sinha, Punjab minister of health and family welfare Brahm Mohindra, ISB executive board member Rakesh Bharti Mittal, and ISB dean Rajendra   also attended the event.
 
 Srivastava said the theme of the summit was ‘Transforming Tomorrow: The Future Unraveled’. “It will focus on trends that have the potential to shape future. Today, the world is witnessing radical changes across domains, which are exciting and intimidating. Our ability to learn and adapt will hold key,” he said.
 
 Speaking on the theme of the summit, Mittal asked students to be prepared to face uncertainties as they plan their future. He urged students to use their time at summits like these and also in classrooms to equip themselves to lead in uncertain environments. “Given the disruption technologies playing in the world today, we in India are still focusing on jobs and what we will give to our young people to help find a job some years later. The matter of fact is that the world has moved from jobs in future to a future of jobs. Disruptive technologies are making the world move very fast,” he said.
 
