Bhopal: Up in arms against Chutka nuclear power plant project, farmers in 575 villagers across three districts in the state have come together to protest, citing it a disaster to development. 

 A major protest rally is being organised by project-affected villages from Mandla, Jabalpur and Seoni districts under the banner of Chutka Parmanu Virodhi Sangarsh Samiti from October 2 to December 17. Earlier, Kunda village, one of the three affected by the project on the banks of Narmada, had passed resolutions rejecting the government proposal to set up the nuclear plant.
 
 “Villagers had made written submission to banks that no deposits should be allowed in their account. But the state government has deposited compensation money. All 575 villages surrounding the proposed site have decided to protest,” said samiti secretary Navratna Dubey.
 
 
 Several organisations and social activists, including Medha Patkar, have raised voice against the proposed nuclear power plant.
 
 The site is about 100km from Jabalpur and the famous marble rock formations and 35 km from Kanha National Park. Most of those affected are tribals, who were earlier displaced by the ‘Bargi Dam’ in the 1990s. Facing the prospect of displacement once again rankles them.
 
 Rajkumar Sinha, convener of an organisation, says on one hand, the government claims it is trying to save Narmada and, on the other, it is allowing a nuclear plant on its banks.”
 
 Sinha and other protesters claim the Centre and the state government have joined hands to push ahead with the project, overlooking its “dangerous consequences.”
 
 When contacted, Mandala district collector, Sufiya Farukhi Wali, told TOI she was not authorised to comment.
 
 Multiple organisations from Bhopal and other areas had been campaigning against the project by distributing booklets and handbills with information about nuclear power plants and their disasters elsewhere in the world.
 
 In 2014, Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited had declared the Chutka plant safe. An environmental impact assessment (EIA) report filed by the corporation says the project is in low seismic activity zone-II and is “environmentally benign, techno-economically viable and sustainable”.
 
 
