Throwing pee at inmates is nothing new in the house of controversies Bigg Boss. This time it is   in limelight, who was recently thrown out of the   house for throwing his pee at Bani J and Rohan Mehra during a task.
 
  Earlier, it has been the likes of   and the loud mouthed   who have used pee to shoo away their co-contestants and irked them instead making the entire house stand against them.
  
  In the beginning of   season 10, when everyone was excited to see the commoners cope up with the celebrities in the house, no one had the slightest of idea what was coming their way as Priyanka Jagga roved proved to be stubborn and the most crazy heads out of the lot. She garnered maximum attention from viewers from all across the globe and fans voted her out in the first weekend only. Everything went smooth until one day during the course of a task Priyanka peed in her pants and asked Bani to wash it for her.
  
  According to the task two selected housemates from both the teams had to sit on a rocking toy horse and move it continuously. At regular intervals, after the contestants hear a horse voice alarm, the Sevaks were required to make the Malik contestants sitting on the horse drink a cup of water and vice versa. While the Sevaks elected Bani and Gaurav to perform the task, Priyanka and Navin took charge of the Maliks team.
  
  During the task Priyanka peed in her pants as she couldn't control it. But she continued with her task. All hell broke, once the task was over as Priyanka reportedly asked Bani to wash her clothes that she had peed into as she was a sevak. This did not go down well with Bani and apparently a major fight broke.
  
  
 
  
  In the second incident, which involved Bani once again happened over their captaincy task. Two tables were kept in the garden area with two pyramids made of blocks which had Swami Om and Bani's pictures on them on each table. Housemates had to break the pyramids with balls, while the two competing against each other had to save their pyramids. When Swami Om saw most of the inmates against him, he went to a corner, picked up a container and started spilling his pee over Rohan and Bani. This incident shook the entire housemates who caged later put him in the jail. This incident led to Swami Om's elimination from the house.
  
  Another similar incident happened last year on Bigg Boss 9 when Priya Malik sprinkled her urine at Kishwer Merchantt. It was during a task that Priya urinated in her sipper in front of her co-contestants who were also sitting inside the car. It was later that she was seen sprinkling it on   as well.
  
  
 
  
  
  
