Bengaluru: Preliminary discussions on the roadmap for the third   to be held in Davanagere in November/December witnessed an unusual request from Kannada litterateurs on Tuesday: Do not glamorize the event by inviting celebrities.

 The activists’ argument is: “People like Infosys co-founder N R Narayana Murthy and actress Aishwarya Rai, though hailing from Karnataka, are not active propagators of Kannada language and ethos. They speak more in English and Hindi than in Kannada in public.”
 
 This request stunned chief minister Siddaramaiah, who headed the brainstorming session on Tuesday to discuss strategies on making the third World Kannada Meet a grand success. The first edition of the event was organized in Mysuru in 1985 and the second in Belagavi (2011). Murthy and Rai had been the guests at the 2011 meet organized by the then Yeddyurappa government. 
 
 Speaking on the list of invitees for the proposed sammelana at Davanagere, Kannada author and novelist Kum Veerabhadrappa said: “There were two mistakes committed at the 2011 meet — while Murthy spoke about the importance of English education, Rai switched to Hindi after delivering the customary initial greetings in Kannada. We do not want these mistakes to happen.” Veerabhadrappa’s view were echoed by other litterateurs, including Hampa Nagaraj and Chandrashekar Patil. 
 
 Nagaraj suggested Siddaramaiah to invite reputed scientist C N R Rao to inaugurate the sammelana. “Rao has studied in a Kannada medium school and has gone on to become a prominent scientist in the world; he is apt to inaugurate the sammelana,” he said. The government, however, has not commented on who will be the chief guest.
 
 Earlier, some litterateurs had expressed apprehensions on the timing of the sammelana as it being held in the backdrop of drought. However, Kannada and culture minister Umashree maintained that drought cannot not come in the way of the meet.
 
 What writers and activists said
 
 Marulasiddappa: At the Vishwa Kannada Sammelana to be held, we have to emphasis on the importance of communal and linguistic harmony for the growth of Kannada language
 
 Chidananda Murthy: We have to invite Kannada scholars living abroad and allow them to deliver lectures. There are Kannada academicians in Nepal, Indonesia and other Asian countries
 
 Mallika Ganti: We should have a session on farmers as the sammelana is being held in the backdrop of drought and farmers suicides in the state
 
 Chandrashekar Patil (Champa): I don’t think it is the right time to conduct VKS as the state is reeling under drought and farmers are ending lives. Moreover, Kannada schools are closing and Hindi language is being imposed on us. The government should think of deferring the event
 
 
