A   in Bhubaneswar has remanded   MP   in   custody for three days till January 12. 

 Investigators had pleaded for Bandyopadhyay's custody for another eight days on the ground that they need to question him based on the magisterial statement made by one of the witnesses. Special chief judicial magistrate   passed the order after going through the case diary , including the video clippings for over an hour. Bandyopadhyay's custody order came at a time when Trinamool leaders were putting pressure on CBI calling the leader's arrest a “conspiracy“.
 
 The probe agency argued that Bandyopadhyay's role was not only limited to providing patronage, he facilitated the money laundering also. CBI counsel Kali Charan Mishra submitted to the court that the agency has got some crucial leads by questioning the Trinamool leader based on the confidential deposition of a person under section 164 of the criminal procedure code. “One of the witnesses has given a comprehensive statement in front of the investigating officer. Later he deposed in front of the magistrate.“ Sources said that two witnesses have already deposed before magistrate confessing that they brought money from the Rose Valley boss Gautam Kundu's office under Bandyopadhyay's instruction.
 
 Arguing about Bandyopadhyay's involvement into the Rose Valley scam, the CBI counsel argued that one such example is a payment made to a prestigious college of Kolkata. “Kundu could have paid from his own pocket. But he decided to pay from the company's account where gullible investors had deposited their money . The donation was made under the mediation of Bandyopadhyay ,“ he argued.
 
 The agency found that market watchdog Sebi had ordered against Rose Valley in January 2011. It has also come across a 2009 letter from the West Bengal government showing Rose Valley was mopping up money illegally from people. “Bandyopadhyay , who was well aware of that, not only attended their programmes but provided them with political patronage too,“ said the CBI counsel.
 
 Opposing CBI custody , Bandyopadhyay's lawyer challenged the legal premise on which he was arrested. The companies named in the three FIRs do not appear in the list of companies which the Supreme Court asked to be probed. “There is nothing by which Bandyopadhyay can be booked for cheating or conspiracy ,“ he said. Moving a bail petition for Bandopadhyay, lawyer Rajdeep Mazumdar said he was supposed to chair a Railway Standing Committee meeting on Monday .
 
 Meanwhile, Trinamool supporters staged a demonstration in front of the CBI office in Bhubaneswar on Monday .
 
 
 
 
 Kolkata: Hours after Kolkata Police decided to lodge an FIR in the Rose Valley scam, it has also decided to “intimate“ the case from its SIT to CBI.Joint CP (crime) Vishal Garg said: “Beyond intimating CBI, we are not going to speak on whether we are probing the case or handing it over to the CBI.“ In a surprise decision, Lalbazar top officers took the decision to lodge the FIR on a “priority basis“ following a complaint from a resident of Bishalakshmitala in South 24-Parganas. 
 
 
