NEW DELHI: Get ready for some   on Friday with the   (RWFC) predicting as much as 64mm rain in isolated areas of Delhi.

 An active   (WD) is affecting the western Himalayan region at present and will impact the weather over the plains from Thursday. A RWFC official said that light rainfall, up to 15mm, is likely to occur at many places over Delhi NCR during the afternoon and evening of March 10.
 
 “There is also possibility of moderate to heavy rainfall, ranging from 16mm to 64mm, in isolated areas. Due to the impact of the WD, one or two spells of rain and thunderstorms are also likely to occur at many places from the evening of March 9,” he said. There will be a resultant drop in minimum temperatures which may go down to as much as 10-11 degrees Celsius by March 11 and 12.
 
 “The minimum temperatures are likely to rise by 1 to 2 degrees Celsius during the next 24 hours and decrease by 2 to 4 degrees Celsius thereafter over northwest India. No significant change in maximum temperatures is expected over northwest India,” said an official.
 
 The Met department has predicted fairly widespread rain or snow over Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, the intensity and spatial distribution of which will peak from March 8 to March 10. Scattered to fairly widespread precipitation will occur over Uttarakhand up to March 9 and widespread rain on March 10. Scattered to fairly widespread rain and thundershowers will occur over Punjab and Haryana up to March 10.
 
 Light isolated to scattered rain and thundershowers are also likely to occur over northern parts of Rajasthan between March 8 and 10. Light isolated to scattered rain and thundershower may also occur over Utter Pradesh between March 8 and March 11.
 
 On Wednesday, Delhi recorded a maximum and minimum temperature of 27 degrees Celsius, two degree below normal and 18.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees above normal. Due to the cloud cover over Delhi NCR since morning, Gurgaon and Noida went up to as much as 19 degrees Celsius. Thursday’s maximum and minimum will be around 27 and 16 degrees Celsius.
 
