AURANGABAD: The   on Friday carried out a drive against open defecation in   and arrested as many as 23 people for answering nature’s call in the open.

 Those arrested were slapped with Section 115 of the Maharashtra Police Act — earlier known as Bombay Police Act — and were produced before the court in the second half of the day.
 
 Showing leniency towards the accused, who were first-time offenders, the court let them off with a fine of Rs 400 each. The accused have also been warned of stringent action if they are caught for committing the same offence again.
 
 This is probably the first time that a police action has been initiated against those defecating in the open. Superintendent of police   said, “The drive by our Good Morning squad of the Sillod police is worth appreciation. We intend to continue it for at least another fortnight so that a strong message is sent out to the ones defecating in open.”
 
 Reddy also indicated the rural police may soon carry out the drive in all eight tehsils falling under its jurisdiction. A civic body official, privy to the development, said, “During flag hoisting on Republic Day, the Sillod municipal council chief officer Ashok Kayande expressed his concerns over the poor response to their drive of making Sillod open-defecation free. To this, Sillod police inspector responded that they will ensure that Sillod become open-defecation free.”
 
 On being asked about the action, Sillod police inspector KK Patil said, “There is a fear that people took money on the pretext of building toilets and used it for some other purpose. We want them to construct the toilets from the money they have already availed from the government.”
 
 Sillod civic chief Kayande said, “People here have already availed Rs 13,000 per head in two instalments of Rs 6,000 and Rs 7,000 for constructing toilets but are still found defecating in the open. We have been trying to make our civic limits open-defecation free but people were found to be unresponsive. Hence, we decided to rope in the police for our drive.”
 
