PANAJI: Flight delays due to   at  , Dabolim could soon be history. In a move to decrease flight delays and improve aircraft turnaround time at Goa International Airport, Airports Authority of India has proposed the construction of a parallel taxi track.

 “Once an aircraft lands, it has to use the same runway or the taxi track on the southern side to reach the civil terminal and thus there are delays. This delay will be reduced,” airport director Goa airport B. C. H. Negi said.
 
 According to the proposal, a full length parallel taxi track suitable for B747 type of aircraft is required to be constructed from the northern side of runway 08-26. The taxi track will be 3.7 kilometers long with a continuous shoulder of 10.5 meters.
 
 The proposal will require strengthening of existing taxiways, development paths connecting the taxiway to the runway and the parking bay, replacement of air washer unit, relocation of water and electrical facilities, and construction of a new perimeter road.
 
 “The tender will be floated in a month. The preliminary work has been completed. The new taxi track is required as the current process limits the runway utilization and capacity of handling aircraft,” Negi said.
 
 AAI will also replace the existing CAT-I Instrument Landing System with a new CAT-I Instrument Landing System.
 
 Goa International Airport is spread over an area of 45 acres, but the enclave is under the jurisdiction of the Indian Navy’s INS Hansa airbase which handles the   operations.
 
 The absence of a parallel taxi track on the northern side of Runway 08 – 26 requires aircraft to backtrack along the same runway after landing in order to reach the AAI terminal, which delays aircraft that are lining up for landing or takeoff. The alternative is for aircraft to queue up along the taxi track on the Naval side and wait for the runway to be vacated so that these aircraft can cross the runway to the passenger terminal.
 
 “This blocks the runway for a longer duration and creates congestion in the air and on the ground. We have taken this decision in order to reduce the runway occupancy time by civilian flights,” said an AAI officer.
 
