KOLKATA: The   (KMC) is all set to blur the border to take on the   threat this year. Realizing that four   wards share the border with vulnerable areas under South Dum Dum and Baranagar municipalities, the civic top brass has decided to work in these areas extensively to eradicate dengue at its source.

 Atin Ghosh, mayor-in-council member overseeing the KMC health department, on Saturday held a meeting with KMC health officials and asked them to keep a   (RAF) team ready to assist South Dum Dum and Baranagar municipalities. “We realize that these two municipalities are fighting a losing battle against dengue for want of infrastructure. We have an infrastructure in place that could be of help to combat dengue in areas under these municipalities. I have asked the KMC officials in charge of vector control programme to extend all possible help to people who are feeling threatened but do not stay under the KMC area,” Ghosh said. 
 
 After a four-hour meeting with senior KMC officials on Saturday afternoon, the MMiC told TOI that the KMC RAF team working under the health department will visit the worst-affected areas soon. “Civic personnel will identify and destroy mosquito-breeding grounds. The workers will also rush to the areas if any cases of death relating to dengue is reported by the municipality,” Ghosh said. 
 
 This apart, KMC will give the residents of these areas access to its dengue detection centres for testing their blood. “Our team of officials will be in touch with the councillors and health department officials of south Dum Dum and Baranagar municipalities so that we get to know about the latest update of dengue scenario,” the MMiC said.
 
 The KMC health department is extra cautious this time as dengue had become an epidemic in areas under these municipalities last year. While 22 people died in dengue in south Dum Dum, 20 deaths were reported from Baranagar area. The start to the season has been scary this year as well. The disease has already claimed three lives in south Dum Dum area and scores are testing positive in areas under Baranagar Municipality. KMC areas like Cossipore, Belgachhia, Bagbazar and Shyambazar have come under direct threat. 
 
 “We are keeping a close vigil on the outbreak of dengue. We will gather information about the latest developments on the disease and act on our own if needed,” said a KMC health department official.
 
 
