NAGPUR:   have questioned finance minister Arun Jaitley’s claim that farmers’ income would double in next five year, an agenda espoused by the BJP since it came to power.

 But, experts feel the measures announced in the budget will not have a direct impact on farm income. Farmers won’t earn more, unless the price for their produce goes up, for which the minimum support price needs to be revised substantially. Though it was a good year, note ban has hit farm income, say activists. There were doubts over achieving even 4% growth.
 
 Vijay Jawandiya, a veteran   leader, said, “Rates of tur are below the MSP, at Rs4,500 a quintal. Prices of other pulses are down. How can the farm income grow if the prices are at a low? Does the government plan to revise MSP at the end of its term?”
 
 Jaitely has doubled the target for farm lending as compared to the previous years. From 2014 to 2016, there has been an yearly increase of Rs50,000 crore in each budget. This time, as against Rs9 lakh crore last year Jaitely has taken the target up to Rs10 lakh crore. However, experts are wondering whether the loans will actually reaching the farmers.
 
 “For last three years, the farmers had a tough time due to natural causes, after that it was note ban. 
 
 “The lending target may have been hiked but the previous losses have led to loan defaults. Unless the olds loans are paid, farmers cannot get fresh credit,” said  , a farm activist and farmer himself.
 
 The government has been aiming for 4% growth since several years. However, last year, it was 1.2% only. It’s difficult to achieve the growth target even this time.
 
 “The loan targets have been hiked but the government has to ensure that the money directly goes to the farmer. At present, loans to even ago-businesses and micro finance institutions (MFIs) engaged in farm lending are counted as banks’ agriculture loans. It would be better if only loans to farmer are taken into account,” said Kishore Tiwari, a farm activist now heading the Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), a state government think tank on agriculture.
 
 There was a demand to create price stabilization funds on pulses, which was not accepted, he said. However, the move to implement core banking system (CBS) in primary agricultural societies will prevent frauds. PACs form the base for farm lending system but still maintain manual accounts. This leaves scope to add fictitious names in the list of borrowers, he said.
 
