Panaji: From a cadre-based party that largely fielded   members in elections,   has metamorphosed into a “secular” party with seven of its legislators being Catholic and four non-RSS out of its 13 newly-elected MLAs.

 Seven Catholic members of legislative   winning in February 2017 polls and bolstering its government-formation effort indicate the party’s shift from its earlier conventional approach to capture power in the state.
 
 Six sitting Catholic MLAs, who had been fielded in the 2012 polls in line with a decision to target a wider voter base, won despite the anti-incumbency as even the party heavyweights from the majority community, including CM Laxmikant Parsekar lost badly. Two more Congress MLAs, Mauvin Godinho and Pandurang Madkaikar, drafted into the party ranks before elections also won, swelling the non-RSS legislators numbers in the party to 11. 
 
 This is a far cry from the 1980s when the party began fielding mostly RSS cadets in the assembly polls, but party leadership gradually realized that only strategic social engineering could help woo Catholic voters and widen the voter base.
 
  Veteran Francisco D’Souza had been its lone Catholic MLA for a decade till 2012 polls. 
 
 The Salcete taluka with its eight-seat treasure has helped political parties, especially Congress, swing to power. But BJP has not been able to penetrate their bastion, barring a seat in each election. All these political compulsions prompted the leadership to take some unconventional decisions in 2012 polls when it fielded Catholic nominees, of which six were successful, albeit outside Salcete. 
 
 With Congress regaining its bastion in Salcete, the party could manage to boost its tally to 17, of which 10 are Catholic MLAs. For the first time, the number of MLAs from the minority community has risen to 17. 
 
 In 2017 polls, only a handful of party candidates out of 36 had any RSS background, party sources said.
 
 Among the 36 BJP candidates who contested the 2017 polls, only a handful of them were chosen from RSS background, in a bid to expand its vote base.
 
 Another interesting development witnessed in the polls is that the split within the local RSS unit led by Subhash Velingker did not affect Catholic and other non-RSS party candidates but proved disastrous for those with RSS roots.
 
 This trend was obvious in the huge defeats suffered by former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar in Mandrem and forest and environment minister Rajendra Arlekar in Pernem. “Divide in the local RSS camp made the party suffer in areas which are the RSS strongholds,” a political observer said.
 
 
