BATHINDA:   has made   and the UK with even signage of pathways and   at many places there. The enthusiasm for the language in these countries was evident on International Mother Language Day observed on Tuesday. Even as in the UK organisations held functions in this regard, Canada will organise a ‘Ma Boli International Punjabi film festival’ on April 29 and 30. 

 But sadly, things are not the same in the place of its origin in India and Pakistan. Punjabi is written in Shahmukhi script (dialect) in Pakistan while in India it is written in Gurmukhi. 
 
 To check this growing disdain for the language, writers courted arrest in Chandigarh. Many protests and programmes were also held in various places in Pakistan Punjab, where voices were raised for giving Punjabi language its due status.
 
 “A cultural rally was organised in Sahiwal town in Pakistan Punjab. It was organized by NGOs Punjab Lok Sujag and Awaz Society, Sahiwal. Activists of both organisations demanded due status for Punjabi,” said Humaira Rana and Shafiq Butt of Punjab Lok Sujag.
 
 Apart from staging a rally on Tuesday, Sujag also organised various programmes for the promotion of the language in the past five days, including a ‘mushaira’, street plays and a talk show on the role of mother language and identity.
 
 Similar voices were also heard in Lahore. Scores of Punjabi aficionados and literary figures, apart from activists of pro-Punjabi organisations Punjabi Abdi Board, Punjabi Parchar and Punjabi Khojgarh, participated in the protest.
 
 Maqsood Saqib, editor of a monthly Punjabi magazine in Lahore, said, “Punjabi language has vast repository of memories for those who lived in the land of its origin and certain restrictions cannot confine it to some institutions only. It should be popularised across the region.” 
 
 “Mothers should take pride in speaking Punjabi to show it is not the language of ‘illiterate’ or the lower class as is being projected,” said Shafiq Butt, adding that, “We want that Punjabi should be declared as compulsory subject from primary to postgraduation level and to make it the medium of instruction up to matriculation level in government schools.”
 
 He said, “Presently, Punjabi is not the medium of instruction in schools from primary to matriculation in Pakistan Punjab despite more than 43 pc population speaking it in the province. It is taught only as an elective subject at the intermediate, graduation and postgraduation levels. 
 
 Poet Afzal Sahir asked the government to take immediate steps to promote the language of eight crore Punjabis and of great sufi poets. Noted poet Baba Najmi said, “Mere lahu naal likho meri ma boli da qaida, jad tak mere saah ne meri boli mar nahi sakdi (Write a book in my mother tongue with my blood, till I breathe my mother language cannot die).”
 
