NAGPUR: “We are more focused on money rather than education which reflects on our   also. People are needed to be educated as they are ignorant about food   so as to lead a healthy life,” said Ravikiran Mahajan, a health expert, on Friday.

 Mahajan, who delivered a lecture on ‘The science behind food’, jointly organized by   (VIA) Agro and Rural Development Forum and Beejotsav group at VIA Hall,  , Civil Lines, said unless habits bad in nature are curbed, children will not become stronger. More than 67 pesticides banned worldwide are easily available in Indian markets which is a matter of concern, he added. 
 
 The potential hydrogen (pH) of any solution is the measure of its hydrogen-ion concentration. The higher the pH reading the more alkaline and oxygen-rich the fluid is. The lower the pH reading the more acidic and oxygen deprived the fluid is. The pH range is from 0 to 14 with 7 being neutral. Anything above 7 is alkaline while anything below 7 is considered acidic. 
 
 Human blood stays in a very narrow pH range right around (7.35 — 7.45). Below or above this range means symptoms and disease. If blood pH moves too much below 6.8 or above 7.8, cells stop functioning and the person dies. The ideal pH for blood is 7.4. A healthy pH without cancer has acid + alkaline balance almost equal. A healthy body is slightly alkaline, measuring approximately 7.4. This ideal blood 7.4 pH measurement means it is just slightly more alkaline than acidic, said Mahajan, while discussing the basic principle on which the human body works.
 
 People should be more aware about the food they eat, whether it is acidic or alkaline in nature, to strike a balance. Refined oil we consume is harmful as the refining process removes antioxidants, vitamin A, vitamin E, lecithin, minerals and enzymes from it. The oil we generally consume is devitalized, robbed, stripped, toxicated and converted from natural food to non-food. 
 
 There are at least 10 times as many bacteria in human body as cells but children are found to be lacking on this count due to modern lifestyle that includes use of cosmetics and food habits which weakens the immune system. People choose supplements to fulfil the need for minerals which is harmful as it increases the 30% risk factor of heart diseases and damages DNA. Research says 67% milk is adulterated which increases risk of cancer. 
 
 Present at the function were Rupinder Nanda, Shyamala Sanyal, Prachi Mahurkar, Kirti Mangrulkar and Akash Navghare. 
 
 (Reporting by Uday Naidu)
 
