It’s ironic. The   has fallen silent, and no one’s really doing anything. The online petition to save Dharna Chowk has found a mere 90 signatories in over 10 days — a number that abysmally pales in comparison to the thousands of protests held at the iconic square. 
While the political rhetoric around it has been high, the very people to whom this space of protest should have mattered the most, remain silent. 
 
 
 
 Calling CM K   to reconsider his decision, and urging him to look back at the days when this very chowk served as a stage for him to fight for Telangana during his agitation for statehood, the petition makes an emotional appeal alright. filed by Hyderabadi, Srisail Reddy, on behalf of an activist group Praja Telangana, the petition reads: “CM sir, I would like to remind you that dharnas organised at Dharna Chowk by leaders like you had helped achieve Telangana State. It is against the spirit of the constitution to suppress the voices questioning the government.” Adding that the shifting of Dharna Chowk, the venue of thousands of protests for several years, amounts to symbolically taking away the people’s right to protest, the note further states, “Anywhere in the world, you see that there is a place for protests. Be it the   in Delhi, or in front of the   in the UK or even for that matter, there were protests in front of the   when   was talking oath. So taking away Dharna Chowk and allotting some place far off from the city is totally undemocratic.”
 
 
 
 The whole issue has been a hard-hitting irony for artist Archana Sonti, who was actively involved in the Telangana movement. “It’s ironic that the government is trying to banish the very same place that once was the hub of the Telangana agitation. It’s like destroying the lifeboat that took you to safety. What will you do if you have to cross another river or for that matter the same river again?” 
 Adding that Dharna Chowk is synonymous with the right to freedom of speech she says, “The Dharna Chowk was the place where we raised our voices against many, many issues. We can’t forget that,” she stresses. 
 But what’s the point if the people today fall silent too? 
  
 
 
 Indie filmmaker Sasi believes spaces for protest are crucial to a healthy democracy. Lamenting the lack of interest among the people at large to save the Dharna Chowk he says, “The decision to move the iconic Dharna Chowk out of the city is a simple plan to kill protest culture, rid the city of protest. It’s like nee dikkunna chota cheppuko po. But sadly everyone seems to be too busy to even spare a few minutes to sign the petition much less protest the move by the government. It just goes to show that we don’t care about anything anymore as long as our everyday routines are not hampered.” 
 Looks like the Dharna Chowk is destined to rest in peace for now and none seems to be complaining.
 
