 CHINCHWAD: Spit-stained and haven for beggars, the Pimpri railway station is set for a  , which is expected to get over in the next one-and -a-half month and will cost Rs 80 lakh.

 The makeover, being undertaken by   under its   (CSR) initiative, is aimed at garbage- and beggar-free platforms at the station. The company, under public participation, has already started the painting work on the walls to give the station a unique and fresh look. 
 
 Raju Nageshkar, senior vice-president (HRD) of Thyssenkrupp, said a majority of our employees come to the office via train. “This way, we owe something to the railways. The Pimpri railway station is important and is being used by people to commute to Chakan and Bhosari industrial areas,” he said.
 
 As a part of the makeover programme, the station will be upgraded to international standards. “The washrooms here will be designed on the lines of ones found at airports. Also, cleanliness and maintenance works will be carried out by our company,” Nageshkar said.
 
 The station will retain its old look with roof tiles. However, the police cabin will be revamped. “We are providing drinking water facility and have also dug a borewell. Works are underway to replace asbestos sheets with the heat-resistant ones. We will also provide elevators on foot overbridges (FOBs) here,” he said. 
 
 The work on creating colourful paintings on the walls has been carried out by Vanarsena, a group founded by   and six others. “We brought in 45 artists who worked for two weeks on sketches on boundary walls admeasuring over 10,000 sqft. About 500 students of various schools and colleges, including Abhinav School of Arts, D Y Patil, MIT, VIT, Akanksha Foundation, Apte Prashala (hearing impaired), have been involved in the work,” Kumavat said.
 
 Station officials said a good ambience has been created with the colourful paintings on the walls. “People hopefully will not spit on the platforms here. All passenger amenities will be provided,” they added.
 
