KOLKATA: The Congress high command did a tit-for-tat to CPM by deciding to nominate a Congressman from West Bengal for the sixth seat for Rajya Sabha, setting aside the CPM’s proposal to look for an “Independent candidate” whom the Left can support. The friend in need this time is  .

 The party’s central minder for Bengal, C P Joshi, has already sounded out Congress senior   for the race, and more important Trinamool chief Banerjee called Bhattacharya before Joshi to congratulate him. The development has shut the doors to any Left overtures, leaving CPM out in the cold. 
 
 The swift move comes after the CPM central committee rejected the Congress offer to support its general secretary Sitaram   in the Rajya Sabha polls. With Banerjee and Congress coming closer, the political course in Bengal is set to go back to the situation before the 2016 assembly elections, putting behind the electoral chemistry that Bengal CPM and Yechury had developed with Congress to keep BJP at bay.
 
 Banerjee’s call to Bhattacharya has come as a reassurance for Congress, which has suffered desertions since the 2016 polls though its official tally in the assembly is 42, a number that can get Bhattacharya through. But in reality, the Bengal Congress now stands at 35 with seven of its members moving with Trinamool minus Manas Bhuiyan, who has recently resigned from the assembly and filed nomination for Rajya Sabha polls on a Trinamool ticket. What Banerjee needs to now send Bhattacharya to Rajya Sabha is to ensure that the seven MLAs, now moving with Trinamool outside the assembly, vote in Bhattacharya’s favour in the event of Left fielding a candidate.
 
 The game plan is set to turn out a win-win situation for both Trinamool and Congress and a complete loss for the Left that will have no role in raising a secular voice from Bengal in Rajya Sabha.
 
 Banerjee’s unconditional support when Congress needed it badly will definitely give the Trinamool chief a premium role in opposition politics, particularly after Bihar CM Nitish Kumar dumped the opposition to shake hands with BJP, and CPM ruled out any alliance or adjustment with Congress in electoral politics.
 
 Bhattacharya’s name, which awaits formal announcement from Congress in Delhi, will add another “friend” to the Trinamool family of five — Derek O’Brien, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, Dola Sen, Manas Bhuiyan and Shanta Chhetri — who are all set to enter the Rajya Sabha with the first preferential votes that the party has in the Bengal assembly.
 
