BENGALURU: Once again, female students of the   (BU) have outshined their male counterparts. At the   on Friday, 145 female and 58 male students will receive   medals. 

 A total of 42,245 undergraduate and post graduate students will be given certificates at the event to be held at the Jnana Jyothi Auditorium. Governor and BU chancellor Vajubhai Rudabhai Vala and Basavaraj Rayareddi, state minister of higher education and pro-chancellor of BU, will be present. Professor Dhirendra Pal Singh, director of the national assessment and accreditation council, will deliver the convocation address.
 
 BU vice-chancellor B Thimme Gowda said women have once again proven their worth. “Women have bagged nearly three times more number of gold medals than their male counterparts this year,” he said.
 
 As many as 80 first rank holders will be felicitated. Also, 74 achievers will get cash prizes. 
 
 No honorary doctorates this year 
 
 The BU vice-chancellor said they respect the decision of cricketer Rahul Dravid not to receive the honorary doctorate. 
 
 “Dravid is abroad and is reachable only through email and text messages. We respect his views. There won’t be any honorary doctorates this year,” he said. 
 
 BOX 
 
 UGC nod for distance education courses 
 
 The university has received the UGC’s nod for its distance education programme after not recognizing it for two years: 2014-15 and 2015-16.
 
 “On Wednesday, we were notified of the approval for distance education courses for 2016-17 and 2017-18. We will start admission for the coming academic session soon,” the VC said.
 
 IN THE HALL OF FAME
 
 Hard work fetches her 8 gold medals 
 
 Sowjanya S K, pursuing MA in Kannada, is set to receive eight gold medals at the convocation. A native of Nandagudi, Sowjanya lost her father at a younger age, and her mother was her source of inspiration.
 
 “I lost my father when I was in class X and my mother raised me and my brother. I want to do well just to provide the best for her. I knew I would be in the top five, however this is unexpected,” she said.
 
 The former student of K R Puram Government College said she paid a lot of attention in class and never let extraneous things distract her. “I used to take tuitions for children from nursery to PUC instead of wasting my free time,” said Sowjanya, who wishes to get a doctorate. Given that her family had to struggle financially, she’s aiming to clear the civil services exam to help the poor.
 
 5-time lucky, she wants to do research in inorganic chemistry 
 
 Winning five gold medals was a dream come true for Kashifa F, a chemistry student. “I used to regularly revise all the topics taught in the class. The central college’s system of regular internal assessment through Monday tests was a boon as it kept us on our toes,” she said.
 
 Kashifa’s specialization in her Masters was inorganic chemistry and she plans to do Ph.D in that subject. 
 
 This gold medallist set his eyes on IAS 
 
 Nagaraj, who pursued his B.E in civil engineering from BU, gives credits for his six medals to his mother, Renuka. He has been employed at Shapoorji Pallonji, a construction company, through campus recruitment since August.
 
 “I was expecting gold medals. I used to study just for two hours a day. Before my exams, however, I studied up to 10 hours a day for two weeks,” said the native of Koppal.
 
 “I cleared the GATE last year itself, but was unable to attend due to family problems. My plan is to do M.Tech and prepare for civil services exam,” he said.
 
 She took tuitions for kids, studied during free time
 
 The news of winning three gold medals was a pleasant surprise for Sumera Tanveer. “I knew I would do well but I never thought that I would get three medals,” she said.
 
 While she studied mathematics at BU, she did her undergraduate studies in computer science and is planning to do Ph.D in fluid dynamics from BU itself.
 
 “I did not have a lot of time to study as I used to take tuitions till 9pm every day. I would squeeze in time after that and study in the morning,” she said.
 
