At a time when jackfruit-flavoured jam, squash, ice cream and even lassi are making inroads into Malayali dining rooms, a few chefs in the city recently took up a culinary challenge: to create pizzas and burgers with raw jackfruit powder. Given that pizzas and burgers are the rage among the new generation, this jackfruit twist to their favourite food garnered huge attention from the ‘healthy-eating’ post-millennials. 

 Five chefs from prominent restaurants and institutions came together to try this within two hours, as food enthusiasts watched with great interest. According to the organisers, the event was intended to give a boost to the idea of  , and what better way to replace maida, considered not-so-healthy with diabetes-reducing jackfruit powder? However, one found out that maida was not completely taken off the ingredient list. Entrepreneur James Joseph, who is part of the event, says they had only asked for the raw jackfruit powder as an add-on to the daily diet. “Though the recipes included 70% of maida, we invited recipes from chefs that incorporated 30% of raw jackfruit as well. The intention behind it is to increase the ratio of vegetable and fruit intake in our food, and aptly use them in our recipes.”
 
 He adds, “If you look at the recent nutritional studies, there is an excess of carbohydrate in our overall diet. When it comes to vegetable and fruit intake, Indians are a lot behind.”
 
 Maida, crucial for   dough to rise up, cannot be completely done away with, says Chef Febi Joseph from Naipunnya College of Hotel Management. “The recipe is still very apt, as it encourages the use of indigenous ingredients.”
 
 Chef Jacob Varghese from the city tried to make Star Wars-themed Dark Darth Vader burger and blend it with the jackfruit flavour. On whether the concept itself will strike a chord with the foodies, he says, “While maida requires less water, raw jackfruit essence needs more water. Once you get to know the right balance of the two, it can be applied, while making idli and dosa as well.”
 
