PATNA: The JD (U) on Thursday said the pre-poll alliance between   (SP) and   will benefit the   in Uttar Pradesh assembly elections as the efforts to form a formidable Bihar-like Mahagathbandhan by bringing secular and socialist forces on one platform has failed. 

 “We always wanted to form a Bihar-like formidable Mahagathbandhan in Uttar Pradesh to keep BJP out of power. It would have paved way for clear victory of secular forces in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The alliance of Congress and SP cannot be termed even a ‘gathbandhan’ in true sense,” said JD (U) national spokesperson K C Tyagi. “The alliance has failed to bring all secular and socialist forces on one platform,” he added.
 
 Asked if there was any talk between JD (U), SP and Congress before formal announcement of the alliance, Tyagi said, “We were not contacted or consulted. Now we are trying to bring other likeminded parties on one platform and keep BJP out of power,” he added. 
 
 Reacting on the development, former Bihar minister and JD (U) secretary Shyam Rajak said, “Our party is expanding its base and contest in those constituencies where it can work as a force to defeat BJP and its allies. It would have been better if all secular and socialist forces were in alliance.”
 
 Rajak said the party would take a final decision on the seats it would contest in UP within the next few days.
 
 Meanwhile, RJD spokesman Chitranjan Gagan said party chief Lalu Prasad is trying his best to bring all secular and socialist forces, including JD (U), on one platform in UP. “We have not lost hope and will make efforts in coming days so that BJP does not get benefit of division of votes,” said Gagan.
 
 A Congress MLA also admitted that split in secular forces will benefit the BJP. “It would have been better had there been a bigger alliance in UP like what we did in Bihar by bringing RJD and JD (U) on same platform despite differences between Nitish and Lalu,” said a Congress MLA, adding, “If Nitish campaigns in UP against Congress-SP candidates, he will definitely hurt our vote bank.”
 
 
