Thirteen years after he left Ahmedabad to pursue medicine in the US, an NRG oncologist has returned to his home state to serve his people.  , 31, who is currently working on cancer research in the rural areas of Gujarat, received a shot in the arm when he won the prestigious Global Surgery Research Fellowship Award for his non-invasive method of diagnosing oesophageal squamous cell cancers.

 At present, he is a postgraduate resident at  . The first doctor in his family, he decided he wanted to pursue oncology after watching a dear friend lose her battle to stomach cancer at age 14. “She was in the final stage. I still cannot forget how her father pleaded with the doctor to rescue her, but he said he was helpless. That is when I decided that one day I will become a doctor and help more and more people like her. This is my life’s mission,” said Bhatt who completed his schooling from NR High School and Udgam before moving to the US with family.
 
 His father is a photographer and mother runs a day care centre in Boston. Bhatt had come down to Ahmedabad in October 2016 to start his research project titled Innovative Method of Screening for Oesophageal Squamous Cell Cancers in Rural India. It was chosen from 25 applications shortlisted by the   (AAS) for the $10,000 fellowship recently. Bhatt also aims to provide surgical training to doctors in the remote areas to conduct minimally invasive operations. He said, “After graduation, I had returned to Gujarat for a year to volunteer for health awareness programmes in rural areas.
 
 I worked with NGOs and helped in setting up medical camps. The disparity in healthcare access that Iwitnessed at that point led me to start my research project here.” Bhatt credits his achievements to his Gujarati roots and values and wants to extend his gratitude by helping the people here. Before moving to the US, his family lived in Satellite area. Speaking about his research, he said, “Oesophageal cancer is the cancer of the food pipe. Its occurrence is high among the rural population who have the habit of chewing tobacco and smoking bidi.
 
 Since early detection is the key to treating it, I have come up with a screening method that would be non-invasive and easily affordable. A patient wouldn’t have to undergo endoscopy which is both invasive and expensive.” Bhatt will screen a high-risk population in rural Gujarat, for oesophageal cancer using a sponge cytology technique. This involves a spongelike tool, compressed into a capsule that is attached to a string. Once swallowed, the outer coating of the capsule dissolves and forms into a sponge in three to five minutes which is then retrieved using the string.
 
 The sponge collects the oesophageal cells which can then be analyzed to screen for cancerous or dysplastic lesions. Bhatt says, “The device manufactured by a US company will be much cheaper when compared to an endoscopy procedure which will cost between Rs 5000 to Rs 7000. Once I am done with the research, I want to pitch the idea to the government so that the device can be available to our people at afar more subsidised rate.”
 
 
