BHUBANESWAR: To prevent students from treading the path of crime,   have decided to implement the   that aims to teach  ,  , empathy for   of the society and  . 

 The Centre has provided Rs 83 lakh to the state government and Rs 430 crore for the entire country for the programme. "We have asked all district collectors and SPs to choose two government-run schools in each district. Our personnel will train the students to evolve as future leaders of a democratic society by inculcating in them respect for law, discipline and volunteerism," ADG (headquarters) and nodal officer of the project Satyajit Mohanty told TOI. 
 
 Police said many students commit offences just after passing out of Class X. "We hope the project will help youths explore and develop their innate capabilities, thereby empowering them to resist the growth of negative tendencies such as social intolerance, substance abuse, deviant behaviour and anti-establishment violence," Mohanty said. 
 
 In the past two years, more than 15 school and college students have been arrested in connection with different crimes. Wary of the disturbing trend, the commissionerate of police in 2014-15 started interface programmes with students in different colleges. Last year, the city police enrolled over 100 college students as volunteers to regulate traffic in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. 
 
 Students of classes VIII, IX and X will be included under the SPC scheme. "Just like NCC and NSS cadets, we will provide uniforms to the students under the SPC project. The students will learn skills of disaster management, search and rescue operations and firing. Once trained, they can assist the police in different policing works," Mohanty said. 
 
 During year-long training session, the students will be trained on physical, mental and educational development. Boys will learn how to tackle the school-level deviant behaviour while girls will be taught ways to resist exploitation. Police said they would join hand with the school and mass education department to materialize the project. 
 
 Though police officers will impart the training, teachers would also be identified as school-level community police officers, who will be trained by the police on ways to train students. Police will also hold regular interface with students and take their suggestions to strengthen the scheme.
 
