LUCKNOW: The maiden session of the 17th Vidhan Sabha was one of the most peaceful in recent history. Despite the ruckus created by the Opposition during governor Ram Naik’s joint address on the opening day, there was not a single   in the week-long session that will end on Monday with the adjournment of Vidhan Parishad. Assembly session has already been adjourned. 

 It was not only sort of a record, but also allowed the government to announce its plans and programmes without hindrance. And the credit for it must go to   Hriday Narain Dixit, whose deft handling of contentious and controversial issues ensured a smooth session.
 
 Both chief minister Adity Nath Yogi and leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary praised Dixit in their speeches on the last day of the session for his friendly and accommodating approach.
 
  principal secretary Pradeep Dubey told TOI that he couldn’t recall when was the last time a session progressed without a single adjournment.
 
 Dixit handled the situation deftly even when the governor objected to the procedure for election of the leader of the opposition by the outgoing Speaker. As the Opposition, mainly  , opposed the governor’s objection, Dixit convinced them by referring it to the rules committee and settled the issue.
 
 With 209 first-time MLAs in the BJP out of 317 and most of the ministers and the chief minister being new to the Assembly proceedings, it was the experience of Dixit and his stature as an eminent writer and respect in the Opposition camp that played a key role in the peaceful conclusion of the session. As Dixit allowed the Opposition to ask questions and their supplementary to vent their grievances and concern, he saved the ministers lacking in experience, by intervening.
 
 He adroitly helped the government tide over the discrepancy in dates mentioned in governor’s speech of farmers’ loan waiver and the government claim. With his conciliatory approach with the Opposition, Dixit convinced them that a communiqué from the governor for correcting the date had arrived and the House unanimously passed the resolution.
 
 
