MUMBAI: The pay dispute involving the Australian cricketers has been dragging on for quite some time now. With their tour of Bangladesh coming up, legendary Aussie pacer   said it's a shame the row hasn't been solved yet.
 
 "It's a bit of a shame where it is headed at the moment. Hopefully, they can sort things out fairly quickly so that the boys can get back to playing and fans can enjoy the game. We have got a tour of Bangladesh and an ODI tour of India coming up. Hopefully, they will get it sorted out quickly," McGrath said on Tuesday.
  
 The speedster was in the city as part of MRF Pace Foundation's two-day Coaching Programme for   for their Ranji Under-23 and Under-19 crop of fast bowlers.
  
 The dispute is over  's refusal to renew a revenue-sharing arrangement which has been part of all deals over the past two decades. The players, entering their fourth week of unemployment since the failure to reach a new agreement, are reportedly going to attend the training camp in Darwin on August 10 but will not leave for Bangladesh a week later unless an agreement is reached.
  
 
 
  
 Fast bowling puts a lot of stress on the body and that is something that McGrath, who played 124 Tests and 250 ODIs, knows pretty well. Being injury-free for a pacer is the real test and that's why McGrath said he's very impressed with the way India spearhead   has managed his workload.
  
 McGrath sung high praises of Yadav, who managed to remain injury-free during the entire 2016-17 home season. "He (Yadav) is bowling really well at the moment, he is up match after match. What's changed is that he knows how to prepare himself and how to recover. I always say being fit is not so much about how long you can bowl, it is about how quickly you can recover and as we get older we get to know ourselves better. And I think that has helped Umesh bowl well, and with confidence," McGrath, who has grabbed 563 Test wickets in his career, said.
  
 The man of the tournament in the 2007 World Cup also stressed on the importance of taking a break as a fast bowler's action "isn't natural". "A fast bowler needs an off season. If you keep bowling whole year without an off season, sooner or later injuries are going to creep in, you got to have a break to put that strength and fitness back in," he analysed.
 
