KOLKATA: When Dobrivoje Toskovic, master planner of  , came down from Serbia in 2008, he was pleased with what he saw. If he returned now, he would be proud to see that the 54-year-old township has shed nicknames like “nothingtown”, “sleepingtown” and even “lonely planet”, to emerge as an independent sphere of economic, social and cultural activities. 

 “In 2017, Salt Lake has everything a citizen could crave for. A structured milieu that reminds one of aesthetically-planned neighbourhoods outside Bengal. The spatial arrangement of houses, parks, streets and avenues with linear walkways that give it a clear urban identity,” said software engineer and Salt Lake resident Anish Goenka. 
 
 Decades back, plots (reclaimed from an unevenly developed marshland on the city’s outskirts) were allotted in Salt Lake on a 999-year lease for Rs 5,000 a cottah. 
 
 The price of a three-cottah plot in Salt Lake shot up for the first time in the nineties when plots were sold without sale agreements.
 
 “The township is now an independent sphere. The residents now have their own identity and Salt Lake is different from Park Street and other happening places of Kolkata,” said Kumar Shankar Sadhu, secretary, Bidhannagar Welfare Association.
 
 For at least four decades, Salt Lake residents suffered the ignominy of waking up to howling foxes and had to set out at least two hours earlier to get to any part of Kolkata by public transport. All that have now changed.
 
 Prasanta Mukherjee, who remembers the sixties in Salt Lake when healthcare was a great concern, said: “From Seba and Calcutta Heart Clinic, we now have   and  .” 
 
 “We’re no longer facility-starved. There’s a para, a local market and a park in every block,”said Ayushi Banerjee, a first-year student of Presidency University.
 
 The metamorphosis happened since 2004 when City Centre I was constructed and the township turned into a hangout zone for the young and the not-so-young alike.
 
 “Salt Lake is developing into a twin of Kolkata. It will be on a developmental fast-lane once the Metro alignment is complete,” said town-planner and resident Monideep Chatterjee.
 
