NEW DELHI: Shikhar Dhawan scored an unbeaten half-century to lead Sunrisers Hyderabad to a comfortable seven-wicket win over Mumbai Indians. The table-toppers put up a modest 138/7 batting first, in reply to which the defending IPL champions achieved the target in 18.2 overs.

 We have for you the various passages of play
 
 
 
 
 Sunrisers Hyderabad possesses one of the best bowling attacks in the tournament, and when it fires, the opposition batting is in for a tough time. On Monday, Mumbai Indians were in the firing line, and a side that has scored heavily and fluently inside the Powerplay, were restricted to just 36/3 by the end of six overs. And it was because of some top notch bowling effort, led by Mohammad Nabi's tidy figures of 1/13 from his four overs. Lendl Simmons, following his 66 against Delhi Daredevils, couldn't get going this time around and Nabi, Kane Williamson's replacement, cleaned him up in the second over itself.
 
 The Sunrisers crippled Mumbai's scoring rate and the pressure mounted. After Simmons, Nitish Rana went for nine, top edging a ball from Siddarth Kaul for Bhuvneshwar to take the catch at mid-off. They could have a third wicket had Vijay Shanker not dropped a Parthiv Patel cut at point. Thankfully for him, the wicketkeeper batsman was soon foxed by a slower delivery and not much damage was done. 
 
 
 
 
 The scoring rate was not what Mumbai intended, but as long as they had their captain Rohit Sharma in the middle, they had hope. With Hardik Pandya, Rohit took it upon himself to give Mumbai Indians a lift in scoring. He began with a deft late cut for four off Rashid Khan and followed it by wacking the bowler over his head. Rohit and Pandya did everything right. They bided their time and saw off Rashid, who was getting some purchase. The surface wasn't the easiest to score off hence Rohit retorted to playing the waiting game. The run rate wasn't what Mumbai would have liked but they were getting there. With three boundaries off Moises Henriques' first over, Rohit set the base for Mumbai's final flourish with Kieron Pollard yet to bat.
 
 
 
 
 Hours after he marked his return to the Indian team by being included in the Champions Trophy squad, Rohit celebrated the occasion with a superb fifty. But just when Mumbai needed him to carry on, going for a pull, Rohit played on a delivery from Kaul. And the slide began. Hardik Pandya fell to a slog off Rashid and Pollard sent a full toss straight down Henriques' throat at deep midwicket. Siddarth Kaul emerged the pick of the bowlers, finishing with 3/24, in addition to Bhuvneshwar and Rashid combining for 51 runs for three wickets in eight overs. Sunrisers bowling effort saw Mumbai post their lowest   of the season - 138/7.
 
 
 
 
 This comes as no surprise, really. The standard of umpiring has been abysmal this season and here was another case in point. First ball of the second over, Mitchell McClenaghan bowled it full, and Warner, expecting a short ball, went back for the ball to hit him on the back pad. Warner was given out instantaneously but the replays showed that there was a faint inside edge involved. Unfortunate, but Warner must know that by now. It was a big lift for the Mumbai Indians, getting the Orange Cap holder cheaply, but plenty was to be done.
 
 
 
 
 If there was a notion that the Sunrisers were heavily dependent on Warner, it was bound to change by the end of the night. After the failure of their middle order in the previous game against Rising Pune Supergiant, onus was on them to ensure that a repeat wouldn't happen. And it didn't. Moises Henriques and Shikhar Dhawan took the game away from the two-time IPL champions by putting on 91 runs for the second wicket. It was a chanceless partnership. After seeing off Harbhajan Singh and McClenaghan, Dhawan took the attack to legspinner Karn Sharma, dispatching him over the boundary twice in two overs. Henriques, with already three half-centuries, looked in a zone of his own. He welcomed Hardik Pandya with consecutive fours and dished out the same treatment to Lasith Malinga. 
 
 Henriques fell to Jasprit Bumrah but that had no bearing on Dhawan, who registered his third half-century of the season. Yuvraj Singh could last 10 balls for nine runs and looked in plenty of discomfort with his finger that received a blow earlier while fielding. Dhawan and Vijay Shankar knocked off the remaining 27 runs to strengthen their Playoff chances and knock the Delhi Daredevils out of the tournament.
 
