HYDERABAD:   president   is on a whirlwind tour of India. The former boss of  , who met the   earlier in the day, was here to discuss measures regarding road safety. The former head of   and UN special envoy for road safety , also took time out to attend the  's ( ) annual awards function on Friday . Todt, who won several rally championships as a co-driver, indicated that India may soon get a Formula E race but refused to talk about Schumacher's health. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 I have different purposes on this visit to India. I wanted to visit our motor sports organisation (FMSCI). I visited the police commissioner in Mumbai to take about road safety . It is very important as I felt very sad that lakhs of people lose their lives and get seriously injured every year here. As experts of motorsports, we need take proper measure to educate people to drive safely on roads.When we talk about drink dri ving, people laugh, but it is a serious issue and should be eradicated.
 
 
 
 
 FMSCI is a member of FIA.We are supporting them and assisting them to train drivers, marshals and helping them adopt proper safety measures. We have several members from FMSCI who are playing an active and important role at international level.
 
 
 
 That is not for FIA to decide.The Formula One promoters have to take a call. I have a lot of respect for what has been done in India like building an international standard F1 circuit in New Delhi. But I feel it is a shame that we don't have more international circuit racing in India. It is not only Formula One, Endurance championship and many more other international events can be conducted. I hope sooner or later India can host international events like Formula E. Team Mahindra is doing well and very soon you should have a Formula E race in India.
 
 
 
 I am not here to talk about Michael or how he is doing. I am here on other purposes to attend this function and talk about mobility and road safety , so I will stick to that.
 
 
 
 
 Why should we make changes.Everything is going well. Ecclestone has done an amazing job, but now we have a new ownership and we are learning how to work together and see what kind of constructive changes we can apply in future.
 
 
 
 
 I love Indian culture and its people. They are a great people, passionate and motivated. I am very excited to explore.
 
 
