AHMEDABAD: Shubham Shah (name changed), a 23-year-old student of a leading B-School in the city, was referred to a cardiologist because his blood pressure was on the higher side. 

 The doctor diagnosed him as having hypertension and immediately put Shah on medication.
 
 As in the case of Shah, very frequently there is no clear reason why the patient has hypertension. But doctors in the city say hypertension and cardiovascular disease tend to run in families. Stress and obesity may be the immediate triggers.
 
 According to   (ISH), statistics indicate that hypertension is the leading cause of preventable death across the world. The ISH further states that only 50% of hypertension patients are aware they have high blood pressure.
 
 Dr Manoj Vithlani, a general practitioner, said that high blood pressure is becoming common among the young. “Studies indicate that hypertension surfaces a decade earlier in Indians than in people of the West. People should regularly get their blood pressure tested,” said Dr Vithalani.
 
 Hypertension is a silent killer as there are no obvious symptoms. Hence regular check-ups are a must, say doctors. There is greater emphasis on awareness because hypertension is a trigger for several other life-threatening ailments such as heart attack, stroke and kidney-related ailments.
 
 Dr Sunil Thanvi, cardiologist, said that if there is a family history of heart ailment or hypertension, one must have check-ups at least twice a year after the age of 25. 
 
 “We’ve noticed that the number of patients between 20 and 30 years of age is growing. Unhealthy lifestyle is often responsible for this. One must take steps to correct this,” said Dr Thanvi.
 
 Most doctors blame early occurrence of hypertension on lack of exercise, increased consumption of processed and junk food, and high stress levels. Dr  , cardiologist, said a good lifestyle as a habit has to be cultivated from an early age. “Lack of exercise and consumption of fast food with high salt content can lead to hypertension. If one has a family history of heart disease, one must be extra careful with diet,” Dr Shah said.
 
 
