NEW DELHI: The   (PAC) has finally adopted the politically contentious report on the 2010   criticising the Manmohan Singh PMO for “passing the buck” with regard to the then Congress leader 
  and faulty supervision of the scam-hit Games.

 The PAC dismissed as “specious argument” the PMO’s response that noncirculation of minutes of the meeting of a group of ministers on January 14, 2005 under then PM Manmohan Singh was best explained by the ministry of sports.
 
 “When it comes to directions of the PM (Manmohan Singh) pertaining to projects of utmost national importance, PMO instead of shifting responsibilities, should have ensured effective follow up,” the report said, noting a two-year delay in generating monthly reports.
 
 “PMO’s submission that reasons can be best explained by the sports ministry is evasive at best,” the report said.
 
 
 
 
 The report, reflecting an all-party consensus, noted the cabinet secretariat’s failure to ensure accountability and its “apparent bending to political pressure” although it said the buck must stop with the PMO. The PMO and cabinet secretariat’s responses date back to when UPA-2 was in office.
 
 
 
 
 The PAC under BJP leader M M Joshi was examining the CAG report that highlighted irregularities in the conduct of the Games.
 
 The PAC also asked the   to take up de novo (afresh) investigation into cases of alleged corruption that were closed by the agency. A total of 33 cases, including some against Kalmadi and his close aides, were filed by the agency. The PAC report was adopted by the committee chaired by Congress leader K V Thomas recently.
 
 The political implications of the report, which is a strong indictment of the UPA-2, are understood to have held up its adoption since the Modi government assumed office but the committee has finally cleared the 357-page report that seems to reflect a compromise on language but still contains critical references to the Manmohan Singh PMO.
 
 Referring to the apparent change of minutes that led to Kalmadi, as president of the  , and not a government nominee heading the   organising committee, the PAC said, “The MYAS (sports ministry) received the minutes back from the cabinet secretariat after the decision to appoint president of   had been implemented and that too undated.
 
 “The committee abhors this culture of passing the buck and desires that the PMO/cabinet secretariat should rather lead by example and encourage a culture of pro-active disposition to work and take up responsibility.”
 
 The PAC condemned the manner in which the highest institutions of government were allowed to be manipulated by “extraneous influences” and called for more scrutiny and oversight in the future.
 
 The committee was also critical of the “imprudent decision” to appoint Kalmadi as chairman of the organising committee overruling the serious objections of the then sports minister, late  , and said this proved to be a costly mistake. 
 
 It turned the OC into a body “outside government control without commensurate accountability to the government despite the full financial guarantee and funding from the government”, it said.
 
 The committee also examined the investigation conducted by the CBI and sought an update on developments in court with regard to the cases that have been closed. 
 
 It directed the CBI to reopen investigation in six cases that were declared closed by the agency and sought faster investigation into a case relating to senior members of the CWG organising committee.
 
 
 
 
