Indore: Indore created another   — the 15th since October 2015 — to transport the organs of a 46-year-old farmer. The same day, Madhya Pradesh’s first liver transplant was also carried out in Indore.

 What makes this one unique is that the family from a village in Dewas volunteered to donate his organs. “This shows the awareness level among Indoreans,” Indore Society for   secretary Dr Sanjay Dixit told TOI.
 
 Traffic came to a standstill in the morning as the heart was transported from Choithram Hospital to the airport to be flown to Delhi for transplant at AIIMS. The liver and kidneys were transplanted at Choithram Hospital. The liver recipient is a 60-year-old.
 
 The donor, Chandrapal Singh Rajawat, was a resident of Dewas. He was admitted to a hospital in Ujjain on January 16 after an accident near his native village Mandaheda. He was later referred to CHL hospital in Indore where doctors declared him brain-dead at 7.20pm on Tuesday.
 
 Since it was decided to transplant the kidneys and liver at Choithram Hospital, Chandrapal was shifted there and the green corridor was created for the heart at 9.30am. A team of surgeons of Choithram Hospital assisted by Fortis Hospital surgeon Dr Amitabh Shrivastav transplanted the liver into Ajay Agrawal, giving him a new lease of life.
 
 The kidneys were transplanted on 18-year-old Arpit Agrawal of Rajgarh and Mukta Karamchandan, 46, of Indore. In Delhi, where AIIMS chief heart transplantation surgeon Balram transplanted the organ to 46-year-old Neelam of Rohtak, Haryana. Chandrapal’s eyes and skin have been stored.
 
 Divisional commissioner Sanjay Dubey, who spearheads the organ donation campaign in Indore, said: “We could have transplanted the heart in Indore, but at the last moment the recipient was not prepared, forcing us to transport it to the next on the waiting list,” he said.
 
 Chandrapal hailed from a family of jagirdars in Mandaheda village of Dewas and is survived by his parents and teenage children. The family performed his final rites in the evening at their native village in Dewas.
 
 
