NOIDA: The 3.9-km Metro link between Kalindi Kunj and   is not likely to roll before July-end this year. The corridor, where civil work and trials have nearly finished, is awaiting an inspection from the commissioner of Metro railway safety (CMRS).

 “After the CMRS — working under the administrative control of the Union ministry of civil aviation — is satisfied with the safety norms, he will give a nod for the passenger movement on the line,” Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications,   Rail Corporation (DMRC), told TOI.
 
 “After we get the sanction, the date for inauguration will be fixed and the Metro line will be launched,” he said.
 
 Noida Authority has also written to the CMRS to expedite inspections along the corridor.
 
 According to the officials, trials continue for nearly two months for trains operated by drivers, but for the driverless trains to be used in this corridor, meticulous trials have been undertaken for more than five months.
 
 “Currently, synchronisation of coaches with signalling and track circuiting are in the final stages, which could conclude any day,” Dayal said. Initially, train operators will run the trains, but gradually, the trains will operate on driverless mode, officials said. Trials for this link started last year in October.
 
 This particular link from Botanical Garden till Kalkaji Mandir Metro station has nine elevated stations — Botanical Garden, Okhla Bird Sanctuary, Kalindi Kunj, Jasola Vihar Shaheen Bagh, Okhla Vihar, Jamia Milia Islamia, Sukhdev Vihar, Okhla NSIC and Kalkaji Mandir.
 
 The Kalindi Kunj-Botanical Garden corridor will connect to DMRC’s Magenta line. After the launch of this line, Noida will have two colour-coded lines—Blue line and Magenta line—operating out of the city. 
 
 Once the Rs 845-crore corridor is ready, commuters will no longer have to go to Rajiv Chowk Metro station to take the Yellow line (Huda City Centre to Samaypur Badli) as the corridor will form a ringed route and connect Botanical Garden station with Hauz Khas station via Amity University, Kalindi Kunj and Kalkaji Mandir station.
 
