THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   Governor   summoned chief minister   and director general of police   at 11.30 am on Sunday to express his concern over the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.

 The Governor summoned both, after the latest killing of an RSS worker Rajesh, at Sreekaraym on Saturday night allegedly by a group of   workers. After the meeting the Governor had sent a series of tweets stating that "summoned chief minister and state police chief to know about action taken by state government on law and order issues in Trivandrum."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Chief minister informed that culprits in murder of RSS worker in Trivandrum arrested and the law breakers will be sternly dealt with, said another tweet.
 
 Later through a press statement issued by the Governor’s office it said that "In the aftermath of recent incidents of violence in Trivandrum City and the murder of an RSS functionary, the Governor summoned chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in order to ascertain first hand information about the incidents and to know about the steps taken thereon."
 
  
  
 
 
 The chief minister apprised the Governor at Kerala Raj Bhavan about the action taken so far by the state government to nab the culprits and informed that the main culprits have already been arrested. The chief minister also informed that he proposes to have a face to face meeting with the state BJP president Kummanam Rajasekharan and state RSS chief.
 
 After the meeting, Pinarayi Vijayan will be making a public appeal to maintain peace. The chief minister further assured the Governor that law breakers will be sternly dealt with, irrespective of their status or political affiliation, said the statement.
 
 The state police chief Loknath Behra also met the Governor to apprise about the situation. The Governor asked the DGP to take all possible measures to book the culprits and to maintain peace. The DGP briefed the Governor on the arrests made and the action being taken to maintain law and order.
 
 The Governor also spoke to BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan about the political murder and the attack on the BJP party office in Thiruvananthapuram. 
 
 The Governor informed him about the measures being taken by the state government. The Governor also spoke to CPM state general secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan over phone to inquire about the stone pelting at his son’s residence.
 
 The Governor also spoke to the Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh and apprised him of the situation and the measures taken by the State Government.
 
