In the midst of so much buzz about Roger Federer’s 19th   win at the   on Sunday, we caught up with the former Indian   player,  , who has played against Federer before. He opened up about the Swiss tennis legend’s comeback this year, what makes Federer one of the greatest tennis players of all time, and more. Excerpts... 

 
 Yes, it’s an incredible accomplishment. Especially, when some people had written him off two years ago, questioned whether he was going to get past 17 Grand Slams, if he would get the 18th one, and so on. Federer fans at that time would have been happy with one more Grand Slam title. But this year, he has made a comeback and now, he is fitter, stronger and faster than he has ever been before. I guess nobody expected such a comeback, including him and his team. And that is the testament to the kind of player he is, and the fact that he always looks out for new methods to improve and win matches. Winning the Wimbledon at the age of 35 without losing a set, I think that’s something that should really be appreciated. It is one of the hardest thing to do in the sport. He has done it effortlessly and that’s the kind of charm he brings in. 
 
 
 
 I’ve spent a decent amount of time with him. I’ve played against him two times and also trained with him once or twice. One of the things I’ve noticed in him is his focus on quality rather than quantity. He is always focused about the purpose for which he is out there, irrespective of the amount of time he spends for training. Of course, playing against him is a tough thing for me. In sports, it’s all about match-ups. The match-up between me and Federer is very much in his favour (laughs). Whenever I’ve played against him, he has troubled me as player. It’s really hard to be comfortable on court when playing against him. The first match against him was in Dubai and it was a good one for me, but unfortunately I lost the match. The second match against him was at the French Open in 2013. I was into the game well, but he snatched the game away from me. I definitely wasn’t playing bad, but he was too good that day. Federer is capable of doing that and that was very well evident even at the Wimbledon this year. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 There are so many factors that go into making a player greatest of all time. The first factor is the number of accomplishments. And obviously, he is far ahead of everybody else in that spectrum. But there are also factors like the way he started his career, his longevity in the sport, lesser number of injuries and the way he has dealt with them — all that add up to his greatness. He could have retired after the last injury and still been the greatest player of all time, but he didn’t give up. He made a comeback this year and won two more Grand Slams. And that sets him apart and makes him one of the greatest athletes of all time across different sports.
 
 
 
 I have high respect for all of them, for all the four have contributed to the sport incredibly. But in terms of who I root for in a Grand Slam final — it is definitely Federer.
 
 
 
 Well, I have been doing a bunch of different things. One of them is my full-time association with this charity organisation called Life Is A Ball. Through that we try to spread the positive message of what change sports can bring about in the lives of many 
 underprivileged kids. 
 
 
 
 Coaching is not in the radar as of now. But I am working closely with the government of India to find a better structure for the overall development of tennis in India.
 
