NAVALGUND/NARGUND: For the past two years, the towns of   (Dharwad) and   (Gadag) have been the epicentres of farmers' protests demanding water from the Mahadayi.

 The long-pending dispute, ever since   and Goa locked horns with each other over the sharing of water from the Mahadayi, has left the poor farmers of   and the Western Ghats suffering. Ever since the start of the agitation in Nargund on July 16, 2015, hundreds of farmers have joined it and have been holding on to hope that the dispute will be amicably resolved soon. While the agitation launched by   and other organizations in Nargund will complete two years on July 16, another launched by farmers under the banner of Malaprabha-Mahadayi Kalasa Banduri Raita Horat Okkuta and Pakshatit Raita Horat will complete two years on August 3.
 
 Lokanath Hebasur, Subhas Chandre gouda Patil and Devareddi Kurahatti of Navalgund; and Vijay Kulkarni, and Veeresh Sobaradmath of Nargund are the men who have been spearheading the agitation and keeping its flames burning.
 
 Hebasur, 56, who was a grain merchant before joining the Mahadayi protest in 2000, has been fueling the protest against the de lay in implementing the Mahadayi project, aimed to divert Kalasa-Banduri, tributaries of the Mahadayi to   river to solve the region's drinking water problem. A commerce graduate, he has 28 acres of land in Navalgund, which is managed by his wife. The family entirely depends on agriculture for livelihood. Hebasur's only son Harikrishna is eyeing civil services. To lead the agitation in an organized manner and turn it into a non-political movement, he founded  .
 
 Sixty-three-year-old Vijay Kulkarni is the man behind the agitation against delay in implementing the Mahadayi project. A farmer who has studied up to SSLC, he has been spearheading protests and creating awareness about the issue since the past 17 years. He played a vital role in drawing the attention of governments and people towards the importance of Mahadayi river, and particularly diverting Kalasa-Banduri to Malaprabha river.
 
 In 2008, he started a begging agitation to collect money to pay water bills. He keeps visiting Nargund, Navalgund and Gadag to gather support for the agitation. Kulkarni owns a 50-acre land, has two sons and two daughters.
 
 Veeresh Sobaradmath, 38, was a tailor before he took the plunge for the cause in 2012. He organized a padayatra from Kudalsangam to Kanakumbi to put pressure on the Centre to resolve the issue, and a rath yatra in Nargund. He launched an indefinite strike which will complete 2 years on July 16.Sobaradmath later became a sanysi and is now completely devoted to the movement. He runs an old-age home in Nargund with support of philanthropists and activists involved in the Mahadayi movement.
 
