LUCKNOW: Class XI student of   Alok Awasthi, who allegedly shot himself with a double-barrel licensed gun belonging to his uncle at his residence in UP State Medical Council, Mall Avenue on Sunday took the extreme step out of fear of uncertain future. 

 “Alok was a good student but given the   of the family he could not afford   and facilities available to his classmates to beat competitive examinations, which he saw as an obstacle in the way of his higher professional studies and success in life,” said Vinay, the father of the victim. 
 
 Alok’s case was the fifth such reported in the city since November in which a teenager shot himself with a licensed firearm at home. As many as six such cases have taken place, including alleged suicide of Dr Joydeep Sircar.
 
 The 17-year-old boy in Monday’s incident shot himself with the licensed gun owned by his uncle Shreeniwas Tiwari who works as a security guard in a private firm and lives with the family. Vinay Awasthi is a security guard too and had gone out with his wife to market when the incident occurred. Shreeniwas was away too. When Vinay was back, he found the room locked. He banged the door and when there was no response, he called on his son’s phone but the call was not answered. He broke open the door and when he found his son lying in a pool of blood, he called the police.
 
 The body was handed over to the family after post mortem on Monday. Autopsy report showed bullet injury on the left side of the brain. Police said the impact of the injury was intense and the head was ripped off making his blood splash on the walls. 
 
 Vinay said “Alok was studying at my native place in Banda till last year when I got him admitted to a good school here because he was good in studies and had secured 87% marks in Class X board exams. 
 
 “He was a cheerful boy and we used to take his help in studies,” said, Ravi, a resident of the campus. 
 
 Husainganj SHO Akhilesh Pandey, said Vinay Awasthi had deposited his gun but had kept the gun of his distant brother, for security. 
 
 OTHER INCIDENTS
 
 January 31: Class XI student Kushagra Verma, 17, shot himself with a rifle belonging to his maternal uncle at his house on BN Road in Kaiserbagh 
 
 January 11: A 16-year-old, class X student of CMS shot himself with a double-barrel licensed gun belonging to his father at his house in Husainganj
 
 December 10: Neha Tewari, a class XI girl shot self with licensed revolver of her father at her house in Aliganj
 
 December 3: 18-year-old Lalit Yadav, class XII student of Cathedral School,shot himself with his father's licenced pistol at his home in Madiaon 
 
 November 2: Alok Singh (18) shot himself with licensed revolver of his father at home by closing himself in the room, after he got frustrated with their nagging at his home in Itaunja
 
 
