BHOPAL: Contrary to his statement on quota in promotion, chief minister   on Thursday said, “There is no need of reservation for talented people.” Taking a dig on his latest statement, Congress said CM was running to RSS with Hindutva agenda.

 The CM’s statement has come at a time when the BJP government in the state is favouring reservation in promotion in the   and paying hefty fee to lawyers.
 
 Earlier, the chief minister in a meeting of SC/ST employees’ union had stated the government would support reservation in promotion. “Koi mai ka laal aarakshan khatm nahi kar sakta (No one can dare to abolish reservation),” Chouhan had said in the meeting in June last year.
 
 The chief minister, however, later clarified that his statement was about reservation in NCC. He also felicitated NCC cadets, who achieved fifth position at the Republic Day camp in New Delhi, at a function organized at his official residence.
 
 Chouhan said, “As far as NCC is concerned no one joins the service for reservation. It’s unfair to link everything with reservation. If there is talent then reservation is not required. This is what I feel about NCC. When cadets join NCC to seek a job in Army or police, they are self-made and develop talent on their own to move ahead in life,” said Chouhan.
 
 He further said that nurturing a talent helps in overall development. “I have never thought on this line, especially reservation in NCC, but disciplined people join Army or police service on merit. Their chances of achieving goal becomes inevitable,” said Chouhan.
 
 The chief minister reiterated that his statement should not be taken in view of reservation issue being raised in the government and the court. However, opposition Congress is leaving no chance in taking his statement with a pinch of salt. Congress said Chouhan was following the hidden agenda of Sangh Parivaar on reservation.
 
 “It seems that the chief minister is following the hidden agenda on reservation. But more objectionable is his statement that ‘talent does not require reservation,’ which is derogatory for the reserved class,” said state Congress spokesperson  .
 
 Earlier, Chouhan said that there was need to increase number of cadets in NCC to prepare disciplined, patriot and conscientious citizens. The state government is working on a plan with the NCC Directorate, he added. In all, 118 cadets were chosen from MP and Chhattisgarh to whom the chief minister presented CM flag.   won the trophy for attaining first position in all activities.
 
 
