BENGALURU: There seems to be competition in the ranks of city cops for the custody of former corporator   alias Naga and his sons, Gandhi and Shastri, who are with   now. 

 Sriramapura and Kengeri police, with whom fresh cases of kidnap and extortion against Naga and his sons have been registered, have also moved the court seeking the trio's custody. 
 
 In all, nine cases have been registered against Naga and his sons since April 14, after their house in Srirampura was raided by Hennur police. Demonetised notes worth Rs 14.8 crore were unearthed during the operation. The trio absconded after the raid. 
 
 The raid itself was the result of an alleged extortion of a businessman who was arrested by   police while he was trying to convert banned currency. In his complaint to Hennur police, the businessman said Naga first gave a sizeable sum in legal currency in exchange for demonetized notes. But later his men threatened him at gunpoint and took away all the cash.
 
 After giving the cops a slip, Naga and his sons escaped to Tamil Nadu in a Maruti Omini that they had hired from a friend. Till their arrest on May 11, the three would eat at temples and sleep on temple pavements or in marriage halls. 
 
  From his hideout, Naga released two CDs that reached media houses through his advocates. In the videos, he alleged that all cases filed against him were a conspiracy by senior police officers who had tried in vain to get their demonetized currency converted by him. 
 
 He also claimed he was contemplating doing something drastic in front of  , and if he did so, the CM would be responsible for it. "Soon, I will get bail and will walk to police officers' chambers and sit next to them. Let me see what you cops can do to me," he had challenged in one of the videos.
 
 Even as the two videos began making headlines, there was a spurt in the number of cases registered against him. Five cases against Naga have been registered at Kengeri police station, while three have at Srirampura police station. 
 
 In all the cases, the complainants have accused Naga of kidnapping and looting them at gunpoint inside his house.
 
 
