VISAKHAPATNAM: Sonti Kamesam, a reputed timber engineer of the 20th century and the inventor of ASCU (the preservative to provide protection against timber decay), was a great advocate of promoting timber plantations in India. However, his advice was thrown to the winds and Indian forest officials and various governments have failed to remove restrictions on open timber trade and promotion of timber plantations in the plains. Even today, there are severe restrictions on developing timber plantations and cutting and trading in timber.

 DN Sinha, nephew of Sonti Kamesam, observed, “Sonti Kamesam played a major role in tapping the full potential of the timber trade in the erstwhile  . He was also one of the first   to promote eco-friendly and cost-effective housing by using bamboo instead of steel. However, his appeal to get rid of restrictions on timber trade and promote timber culture in the plains fell on deaf years.”
 
 K Viswanatham, soil conservation expert and timber scientist, said India’s timber wealth is yet to be exploited to the hilt. “Whether it be red sanders, teak or sandalwood, most of the timber is either smuggled out of the country or is lying unused. The government should focus on promoting these plantations in the plain areas and focus on removing restrictions as far as cutting down the wood is concerned,” he said. Procuring cutting orders, transport orders and export orders from the forest department and other government departments has only encouraged smugglers to take to the trade while some officials do not hesitate to fill up their pockets with ill-gotten gains, he added.
 
 Even with bamboo, this seems to be the case. PS Raju, a farmer from  , said, “I planted bamboo as a natural fence all along the boundaries of my farm. However, I am finding it difficult to approach buyers, despite the fact that bamboo can be used to manufacture high quality paper and construction activity. The price offered by agents of paper mills is a pittance and it is time the government shut down this cartel.”
 
  said though India was rich in varied timber, the decreasing forest cover has made Indian timber trade deficit touch the $7 billion-mark. He pointed out that the efforts of the concerned industries will be wasted unless the restrictions are lifted.
 
 Whether it be red sanders, teak or sandalwood, most of the timber is either smuggled out of the country or is lying unused. The government should focus on promoting these plantations in the plain areas and focus on removing restrictions as far as cutting down the wood is concerned” 
 
