BENGALURU: The emergency meeting of the   (KSBC) on Wednesday , following the resignation of second seniormost judge Justice Jayant Patel, passed a resolution asking advocates across the state to abstain from the courts on October 4 as a mark of protest.

 The high court is closed for Dasara vacations and regular sittings will commence on October 3. The KSBC also said it's in agreement with the views and resolution of the Gujarat high court   which said the resignation has shaken the belief of the bar in the independence of judiciary and has the potential of adversely affecting the morale of the legal fraternity and the judiciary and the need for strongest condemnation by it.
 
 “It is to bring home the seriousness of the situation and respecting the sentiments of the members of the Bar, treating this as a rarest situation, have resolved to request the members of Bar across the state, to abstain from appearance in their respective courts on Wednesday , October 4, 2017 , as a mark of `protest' and to vindicate the independence of judiciary and express concern and request through the said process, to restore the faith in the system; the NJAC verdict having sought for transparency in collegium, appointment of judges independence of judiciary ,“ the resolution said.
 
 The resolution also notes that the entire legal fraternity is anguished and is greatly disturbed by the lack of faith confidence in the collegium system, which has meted out such treatment to Justice Jayant Patel who has satisfactorily discharged his duties and functions as a judge.
 
 The resolution adds that the transfer before the retirement of the incumbent chief justice of Karnataka makes the members of the Bar to perceive the events as decision makers in judiciary and executives have overlooked the aspirations and spirit of NJAC verdict in achieving transparency .
 
 It further notes that the Bar is greatly disappointed as well as perturbed over the treatment being meted out by the executive government at the Centre, as in the backdrop of delay in appointment of judges to the Karnataka high court the strength of judges has reduced to 25 against a sanctioned strength of 62.
 
 The meeting held under the chairmanship of Y R Sadashiva Reddy , co-chairman of the   and member special committee in charge of KSBC, appealed to the authorities to address the concerns of the members of the Bar and redress their grievances.
 
 Justice Jayant Patel, second seniormost judge of the Karnataka high court, suddenly resigned from his post on Monday , just before his contemplated transfer to the Allahabad high court. He was transferred to the Karnataka high court in February 2016 after donning the post of acting chief justice of the Gujarat high court for about six months. With the chief justice of the Karnataka high court due for retirement on October 9, it was expected that Justice Patel would be the natural choice for the post of acting chief justice. If he had not resigned and proceeded to the Allahabad high court, he would have been the No. 3 judge there.
 
