Three artistes from Lucknow, renowned bhajan and ghazal singer  , poet   and music composer- singer   have been working relentlessly to lend a unique and musical touch to the Bhagwad Gita. The three have been working to record an album of the   poetic translation of the epic penned by Anwar Jalalpuri. While Jalota has lent his voice to the songs, Vivek Prakash has composed the music for it. The album is interspersed with shers read out by Jalalpuri. The trio is also set to bring out a video of the same featuring them all. 
It all started when Jalalpuri, a renowned poet, educationist and professor of English and Urdu translated all 701 shlokas of the Bhagwad Gita into Urdu poetry. Jalalpuri, who was also seen in the film 'Dedh Ishqiya' and has penned the dialogues and songs of the TV serial 'Akbar The Great', tells us,"I had completed MA in 1978, and then I I wanted to pursue PhD. For that I wanted to work on a topic that would be interesting for both the HIndus as well as the Muslims. Since I had an interest in the Gita, I decided to translate the epic into Urdu shayari. What also spurred me on to do this was that during my research found that although there had been 24 many translation done of the epic into Urdu poetry barely 8 copies could be found. I travelled to places like Patna, Kolkata, Hyderabad and even Rampur but got to know that most of these manuscripts were either lost or destroyed. So I decided to undertake this task and I am happy that after more than 35 years, I have been able to complete the task and finally we are recording this album."
 Jalota, who was in Lucknow earlier this week and who has earlier recorded other albums of Gita says he found the language of this particular translation so appealing that he couldn't refuse the offer to sing this. "Anwar sahab has written this so beautifully that when he apprached me, I felt only I should do this. I feel blessed to be able to sing for another album on Bhagwad Gita." 
 Meanwhile, for Vivek Prakash, this has been enlightening experience. "I had read the Bhagwad Gita earlier but now while composing the music for this particular one has given me a whole new perspective to it. The language is so simple yet the effect of it so profound. I had to be very careful while composing the music for this album because I had to make it appealing to the masses yet maintain the sanctity of the subject and the words. That wasn't an easy task, I would say," he says. 
 
