
 

 The recent incident of mass   in Bengaluru has left us shocked and outraged. And to make matters worse, our so called moral guardians (in the garb of politicians); have been bombarding us with their opinions on how the incident is a result of influence of western culture on women.
 
  
  
 We are in 2017. And yet, the regressive mindset of putting the blame on the women continues. We are constantly been told: ‘You can’t wear this. You can’t drink. You can’t go out with a stranger. Carry a weapon, you never know... It’s dark outside’.
 
 
 
 It’s time we speak out. It’s time our government and lawmakers form stringent laws to put the fear in the hearts of the perpetrators. It’s time we realise that violence in any form is not okay. It’s time for the men around us to be sensitive; to stand up, acknowledge and protest when a crime is committed. It’s time we educate young minds to respect women; to tell them that it’s not funny to tease a girl or think of them as inferiors or to joke about them. It’s time we wake up.
 
 Last year, when 'PINK' released, we all lauded the efforts made by the film’s makers and conveniently forgot the message the moment we stepped out of the movie theatre. Bollywood also has an equally important role in shaping young minds. Glorifying stalkers and objectifying women needs to stop.
 
  
  
 
 Incidences of molestation have become a day-to-day experience for women in our country today. How many times have you thrown up your hands in exasperation after reading the ‘oh-so-thoughtful’ statements of authorities related to molestation, sexual abuse and rape cases? Countless, we are sure. But how long till all of this actually stops? Despite living in changing times, our view of women is absolutely regressive. Objectification of women, treating them as commodities that should be presented before us at will and counter-questioning their morality when they are subjected to harassment has become the norm for the men of today and there’s hardly any woman who hasn’t gone through such disgusting experiences. We at Pune Times decided to ask readers to write in to us with #SilentNoMore and we received several mails and tweets where women have spoken up against molestation, against abuse and highlighted the importance of a safe city, of a safe environment. We bring you a few of the responses. Let’s Speak Out.
 
 
 
 
 
 
