KOLKATA: Private hospitals in the city got together to contest allegations of inflated bills prior to their review meeting with state government representatives at the Town Hall on Wednesday. The   (AHEI), which met on Monday evening, has agreed to accept a regulatory body to audit their bills and admitted some of them `played mischief ' with bills. But it also pointed out complaints of over-billing were “largely based on perception and were rare in comparison to the number of patients they treated“. CM   and mayor   will attend the meeting to discuss issues concerning hospital charges and security in the aftermath of the CMRI ransack last week.
Most surgical procedures now have a cost ceiling imposed by insurance companies which make it difficult to manipulate charges, said P Tondon, director of AHEI and CEO of  .
 
 “The private healthcare system treats millions in Kolkata and beyond. Allegations of over-billing are few and far in between. But some hospitals tend to be mischievous and should be taken to task,“ Tondon added.
 
 Members of the AHEI also agreed to an audit of bills by a regulatory body. It has called for a screening of the private nursing homes that have sprouted across the city and districts. “We are waiting to listen to what the government has to say . But in case an audit is proposed, we are ready to accept it. This should help clear the air and remove the perception all hospitals cheat,“ said Tondon. AMRI Hospitals, too, welcomed an independent vetting of bills. It has suggested a medical board for all critical cases to avoid lapses in treatment. “It will not only help ensure better treatment, but patient parties will have multiple doctors to keep them apprised of the situation. This will automatically ensure a regular interaction between doctors and patients' families,“ said Rupak Barua, CEO, AMRI Hospitals.
 
 But measures announced at Wednesday's meeting could largely be face-saving ones, felt a section of private hospital doctors. “It will need a really Herculean effort from the government to ensure every bill is scrutinized and the charges are fair. Such consistent screening seems logistically difficult and the hospitals know that. Eventually , many will manage to get around the screening and have their way . But even a partially efficient screening will help to curb over-billing to an extent,“ said a senior medic.
 
 Cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar called for a `third umpire' to settle issues of over-billing. “This seems to be best option and is certainly better than allowing hospitals to be ransacked and patients' grievances to fester. More importantly , we need regulations to protect those not covered by health insurance. They are the most vulnerable and are prone to be taken for a ride,“ said Sarkar.
 
 
