SHIMLA: A drug peddler from Kullu supplying drugs to his customers, generally school and college going children, has been sentenced to three years imprisonment along with Rs 25,000 fine by  . In default of payment of fine, convict will have to   imprisonment for a further period of three months.

 The convict, Kamlesh, was running a tea stall at Shishamati (Dhalpur) in Kullu town from where police recovered 14g heroin. The court had observed this as a case of recovery of intermediate quantity of heroin. For the commission of an offence of this nature under Section 21 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, there is a provision to sentence the convict for a term which may extend up to 10 years and impose fine, which may extend to Rs 1 lakh.
 
 A division bench of Justice   and Justice  , while deciding the quantum of sentence on Thursday, observed that having regard to the submissions made on behalf of the appellant-state and the convict as well as the manner in which he was dealing in the drug selling business at his tea stall, the convict deserves no leniency in the matter of award of sentence.
 
 Yet, the court took lenient view of the fact that he has four minor daughters dependent on him besides his wife and old mother, coupled with the factum that he is a first time offender. Court said that period of detention, if any, already undergone by the convict during investigation, inquiry or trial, is ordered to be set off against the sentence given to him.
 
 “We have carefully considered the rival submissions. It is worth mentioning that while determining the quantum of sentence against a convict, it is magnitude of the crime committed, gravity and heinousness thereof as well as the manner in which it is committed, that weigh in the mind of the court,” said the bench. 
 
 The court added that the offence the convict has committed is not only against an individual, but the public at large because such an offence has wider repercussion in the society, particularly among the young generation. It also directed to destroy the case property strictly in accordance with the procedure prescribed therefore.
 
