PUNE: The new terminal of the Lohegaon airport will be able to cater to around 5,000 passengers during   once it is ready for operation by late 2019.

 Pune airport director   told TOI that the new terminal building, which is a part of the expansion plan of the Pune airport, will be bigger and grander with several facilities for passengers.
 
 “The terminal building will come up on the eastern side of the airport. The work will start in six months’ time and be completed within two years. A total area of 15.84 acre has been earmarked for the construction of the new building,” the director said.
 
 The   (AAI) had sanctioned Rs 408 crore for the new building last year. 
 
 In May 2016, the ministry of defence had provided 15.84 acre defence land to the AAI for the airport’s expansion. 
 
 Recently, an additional 18 acre of defence land was sanctioned to AAI in lieu of the land provided by the state government and AAI near the airport to the Indian   (IAF) to relocate their facilities.
 
 The actual land transfer of the earlier plot is still to take place and the ministry has told the AAI to begin expansion work immediately.
 
 “Maharashtra CM has already said that Pune needs two airports. So the oft-repeated question, ‘Why should the existing airport see expansion when a new Pune airport is coming up’ doesn’t stand. Until the new airport is ready, we have to provide better facilities for passengers,” the director pointed out.
 
 Meanwhile, the airport's passenger handling capacity has grown from nearly 20 lakh in 2009-10 to 55 lakh in 2015-16, which means more than 23% growth.
 
 “The existing terminal building is also being expanded. Right now, it has the capacity to handle around 1,200 passengers during peak hours. After the expansion, it will be able to cater to 1,500 passengers. The focus is on increasing the capacity of the airport and we hope that we will be able to sustain passenger growth. We predict a growth of 20% in the next financial year. Several things, including a new apron, multi-level parking facility, among others, are coming up. Presently, the airport records a total of 144 scheduled flight movements. We will be giving a free land to the new flights,” the director told TOI.
 
