 is a fighter. And a winner. While her performance in her latest show has garnered a lot of appreciation, she has weathered many a storm in her personal life, with grace and dignity. Experiences can be good or bad, but what matters is learning from them and moving on, she says. In a freewheeling chat with BT, the actress talks about her latest outing, her much-publicised divorce from   and how the experience taught her so much about herself. Excerpts...

 
 
 As actors, if we get a chance to do something different, we’ll grab it. Though both films and television sell emotions, let’s not deny that it’s way more challenging for small-screen actors to earn their respect. So, if we find passion and respect for our art, everything else will fall in place. TV is in a great space today; people don’t stereotype actors anymore. I request everybody to give us opportunities, which will help both actors and the small screen to grow, because there is no dearth of talent. Now, we are beyond crime and kitchen politics -- the content should become more progressive than regressive. 
 
 
 
 Failed is too harsh a term to refer to something your gave your best to, and tried hard at. It has not left me disillusioned. We should never close our doors on love. Why should it be restricted to a companion? There is no lack of love in my life. In fact, I have never been this happy and loved. I am in love all the time... Talking about marriage, it is a beautiful institution and it’s amazing if two people want to be together. However, the decision has to be mutual; it’s a team work. 
 
 
 
 I wanted time to understand what was going on and how to deal with it. I owed it to myself, my family and those who believed in me. People talk, but that’s alright with me. It was a life-changing experience. However, I didn’t feel the need to justify myself to anybody because it was my life and my choice. Neither did I feel the need to tell everybody that I am fine. One man entered my life and then left it -- that’s all there is to it. It can't be the be-all and end-all of my life. Now, both of us have moved on and people should move on, too.
 
 
 
 It’s sad when any relationship, not just marriage, doesn’t have a fruitful ending. I had lived with him for so long, so it obviously took me a while to deal with the situation. I experienced a gamut of emotions, but I was so strong that I came out of it without any trouble. Also, I had a lovely support system in my family and friends. Today, all of us are in a happy space. 
 
 
 
 There is no grudge at all. We are all human beings, and no one is perfect. How will I learn if I don’t make mistakes? I will tell my future children also to make as many mistakes as they can because that’s how they will learn. There is no ideal man, woman or relationship. Life is full of ups and downs. I have absolutely no bad memory of the marriage even though it has ended. In fact, I am thankful to Karan for an experience that taught me so much about myself. It has made me realise my strength, who my true friends are and how awesome my family is. I would have been a different person if this marriage and divorce hadn’t happened. I also got so much love from his parents. I regret nothing and feel blessed instead. I have come out as a better, stronger, more loving and kickass person because of whatever happened. Earlier, I was impulsive and would get carried away. Now, I pause and think before doing something.
 
 
 
 I want to marry a good person, not his profession. If the person is good, the profession doesn’t matter. I hold honesty, simplicity and genuineness above everything. 
 
 
 
 We will cross that bridge when we get to it. I have stopped planning for future.
 
 
 
 Well, that is his opinion and he is entitled to it. I won’t call our marriage a mistake, though. I don’t regret it because it was a choice I made. Waise, I don’t regret anything that has happened in my life. 
 
 
 
 There’s no hurt; I can’t decide what he does. Every person is different. I like to give myself time to deal with an issue. I get to the root of the matter and learn from it. I don’t like to repeat mistakes. I will not fall into a ditch now. 
 
 
 
 Unfortunately, no. I am so busy that I barely get to see my own parents. Also, they live in Delhi. But I love them a lot, as they have given me so much love. I will always have the fondest memories of them. They are the most amazing people I have met. They still love me, I know that.
 
 
 
 Yes, so I heard. I don’t know why a lovely, casual gesture by her became headlines and was turned into some sort of an investigation. I don't think it was fair to write so much about it. Fortunately or unfortunately, we are connected in some way. I can’t say what made her unlike it later. This question should be posed to her. All I can say is, we have moved on way beyond and are in a better space now. 
 
 
 
 Absolutely not. If somebody is good to me, I’ll reciprocate. What’s the harm? If somebody says ‘hello’ to me, I won’t turn my back on him. I know Karan, so why will I not say a ‘hi’?
 
 
 
 I have so many special people in my life. What are you talking about?
 
  
  
 
