Gender-just laws and codes are, as they should be, the critical test against which contemporary democracies are assessed. Pursuing gender equality is not easy, however, and there is no set path that can ensure the realisation of this ideal for all time to come. We need to move in that direction, learning from the experiences of other democracies while recognizing the particularity of our situation.

 If we look at Western democracies, France and most of continental Europe inched closer to ensuring equality for   through a series of legislations that changed, bit-by-bit, aspects of the   that had been formulated by Napoleon. In France a uniform code existed since 1804, but it did not secure women's equality: wives were still required to "obey" their husband; the latter alone had rights over property and women could not engage in financial transactions, to give a few examples. In the UK, USA, Australia, Canada, common law prevails and women's position has improved gradually through a series of historic judgments by the court and accompanying legislations.
 
 In each of these countries, women's equality was not realized at one go ­ that is, through a single legislation. In France, it is the Act of 1938 that granted married women their legal-civil personality; the Acts of 1942 and 1965 furthered the cause of equality for married women, but they did not resolve all women-related issues. Abortion, divorce by mutual consent, remained; and these continue to be contested issues in much of the twentieth century.
 
 The move towards women's equality did not come easily. It was a product of feminist struggles and liberal political leadership. In Western democracies that were marked by a high degree of religious homogeneity, state intervention was the main modality of change and it led from the front by taking secular and democratic forces with it. However, when minorities receive recognition, the narrative changes quite significantly in these countries. In Canada, when indigenous populations get the right to govern themselves on 'reservations', the state steps back. Even though some of the existing rules disadvantage women (for instance, they lose their status and with it the right to live on reservations, if they marry outside the community, a non-status person). The Canadian Charter of rights, which affirms gender equality as an essential norm, is not imposed on them.
 
 
 
 
 In postwar France, the entry of immigrants from Sub-Saharan Africa ­ Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia ­ similarly complicated the situation. Even though the uniform civil code applies to all, certain exceptions were eventually made for people who came from countries where polygamy was legal. Since a strict adherence to the uniform code (that only recognized monogamous marriages) would have made second, third or fourth wife (and her children) vulnerable, as they would have been left behind in their home country, partial recognition (that is, in some spheres and not others) was eventually given to these kinds of marriages. In France, they were recognized for immigration status but not for welfare benefits; in UK they were given recognition only for some income support, job seeker's bene fits and additional housing. In Israel, as the religious authority continues to control marriage laws, women's equality has been pursued by creating multiple level of jurisdiction. Women who feel that they have not been given a fair treatment within the community can appeal to the courts on matters relating to marriage, divorce etc.
 
 The road to gender equality has thus been a complicated one and the task far from complete. Nevertheless the experience of western democracies highlights three elements that need to be considered seriously. First, the issue of gender equality is closely tied to individual liberty and equal treatment. One cannot pursue the latter without pushing for gender equality. Two, the state played an important role in securing equality for women. It could to do so because the process of secularization had delegitimised the role of the church and empowered the state to assert itself as the sole legislator. Hence, opportunities could be seized to curb the influence of religious authorities in matters relating to marriage and family. Three, from the second half of the twentieth century, we see the growing influence of the community and religious groups. Whether it is the question of abortion, or nontraditional families, or practices like female circumcision, state legislation alone is ineffective and insufficient. The state might not recognise polygamous marriages, but the practice may remain intact. The court may grant divorce but the community may not recognise it, thereby restricting the option of marrying again within the community. Therefore, one has to bring the community in and the state has to incentivise change within existing structures of community power. Pursuing gender equality requires multiple strategies; neither the state nor the community can be left out entirely.
 
 (The writer is professor,   University and author of the books 'Democracy, Difference and Social Justice' and 'The Multicultural Path: Issues of Diversity and Discrimination in Democracy')
 
 Next | Why Hindu and Muslim personal law can't be compared
 
