BEIJING: China's newly-formed Rocket Force has held an exercise with advanced   with a range of over 1,000km that could 
  , including India, Japan and the US.

 Significantly the People's Liberation Army (PLA), which is secretive about its weapons systems, has released a video of the recent exercise of its troops employing the advanced DF-16 medium-range ballistic missile.
 
  is a special contingent to handle range of missiles in its military's arsenal.
 
 Several launch vehicles carrying the ballistic missiles were seen in the footage released to show the training of Rocket Force missile brigade soldiers around the Spring Festival holiday.
 
 The participating units handled a number of scenarios, including chemical/biological contamination, countering satellite reconnaissance and electronic jamming, state-run China Daily reported on Monday.
 
 The crews practiced in multiple manoeuvres, such as rapid loading, redeployment and launch sequence, though the video showed no missile actually being launched.
 
 Two types of DF-16 appeared in the exercise. The video represents the third time the DF-16 has been shown to the public.
 
 The missile made its debut at a military parade in Beijing in September 2015.
 
 In July, a television news programme showed General Fan Changlong, a vice-chairman of the Central Military Commission, inspecting a DF-16 unit of the Southern Theatre Command.
 
 Though the PLA has never disclosed its ballistic missiles' specifications, experts said the DF-16 poses a challenge to foreign military installations along the first island chain, which is what the Chinese military calls the series of islands that stretch from Japan in the north to Taiwan and the Philippines to the south, the Daily report said. 
 
 Since the election of   as 
  , China has been striking aggressive postures against Taiwan after he spoke to Taiwanese President Tsai-Ing-wen.
 
 While criticising his moves, 
  , as well as the first island chain in the Pacific and stepped up naval drills in the disputed South China Sea.
 
 Washington Free Beacon, a news website in the United States that specialises in military affairs, reported on January 31 that China conducted the first flight of the DF-5C intercontinental ballistic missile in January.
 
 China has also deployed its long range missile close to the Russian border which the Russian media said is aimed at US.
 
 Reports in the official media said China is stepping up preparedness for a 
  as Trump signalled to follow more hardline policy to counter China's claims on the disputed South China Sea, official media reports here said.
 
 A commentary in the official website of People's Liberation Army's (PLA) said on January 20 the day Trump assumed presidency that the chances of war have become "more real" amid a more complex security situation in Asia Pacific.
 
 Xu Guangyu, a retired major general and now a strategy researcher, said that DF-16 has a strike range of more than 1,000 kms, filling the gap that previously existed with the absence of a medium-range ballistic missile in the PLA's arsenal.
 
 He said the missile also is able to reach Okinawa, a Japanese island about 400km from China's Diaoyu Islands.
 
 Shi Hong, executive editor of Shipborne Weapons, said the DF-16 has a strike accuracy as good as that of a cruise missile, Shi said.
 
 It is also able to manoeuvre in its final stage to penetrate enemy defensive firepower, he said.
 
 Other PLA Rocket Force brigades also mobilised their DF-11, DF-15 and DF-21C ballistic missiles during training around Spring Festival, according to PLA media outlets. 
 
