ITANAGAR: Arunachal Pradesh on Friday became the 12th state in India and the second in the northeast after Assam to ratify the Goods and   ( )  , which was passed by both houses of the Parliament. Chief Minister Pema Khandu introduced the   and Services Tax Bill, 2017, during a day-long special session in the newly constructed state-of-the-art assembly building. 

 The Bill is aimed at making a provision for levy and collection of tax by the state on inter-state supply of goods or services and any matter connected therewith or incidental thereto. Various members across party lines, while participating in the discussion, supported the bill, saying that it is aimed at 'One nation one tax', which would benefit the state immensely. 
 
 CM Pema Khandu said, "Work on optical fibre laying is being undertaken on war footing to connect far-flung rural populace so that each and every citizen of the state benefits from IT connectivity. GST will be simple and easy to administer, ensure better control on leakages with robust IT infrastructure, higher revenue efficiency, and relief in overall tax burden, and with destination-based tax, it will greatly help in removing economic distortions and in development of a common national market."
 
 The chief minister appreciated Narendra Modi for bringing in an investment-friendly tax reform that would be of immense benefit to the state. "GST will remove a complex tax structure and lead to decrease in prices of commodities," he said. Once GST is implemented, all entry gates erected for collecting various taxes will be abolished, leading to check in revenue leakages, he added.
 
 The chief minister further added that five regional offices would be set up at Pasighat, Namsai, Jairampur, Bhalukpong and Itanagar for GST implementation and officials trained in handling the new tax system. He added that NITI Aayog and the ministry concerned were asked to address the gap in IT infrastructure for successful implementation of GST. Khandu said the government would work out the GST registration process towards checking dilution of trading licenses and tax evasion by non-Arunachalee traders.
 
