CHENNAI:  's propensity to derail projects through   has found its latest victim in the  .

 The project is now stuck in limbo and neither the corporation nor the reported consultants, the   (NFDC), can provide a status update. Making matters worse, NFDC officials told TOI that there was confusion about the role they are expected to perform in the execution of the project, as the civic body has not “properly communicated“ with them.
 
 Since July 2016, the corporation has maintained that the Amma theatre project has been “forwarded to the government“ for approval. The blame for the delay was attributed to the state government's lack of interest in taking it forward.
 
 However,   told TOI that the corporation was still awaiting a report from the NFDC that would enable the civic body to decide on locations for setting up the low cost theathes. This lack of clarity is best illustrated by the response that TOI received from N Mahesan, chief engineer (buildings), who said that he “had no idea“ about the pro ject. The buildings department is responsible for the construction of Amma theatres.
 
 The NFDC, which was reportedly brought on board as project consultants by the corporation in July 2016, is also unclear about their role. D Ramakrishnan, deputy general manager (south), NFDC, told TOI that there was an initial round of discussion with the corporation about the project. Subsequent to that, Ramakrishnan said, the corporation did not make it clear as to what is expected of NFDC.
 
 The Amma theatres project was announced as part of the corporation's 2014-15 budget proposal. It ran into immediate opposition from theatre owners as the low-cost model of the project was deemed a threat to their business. Regardless, the project gained traction and was on course for execution until the hospitalisation of former chief minister   in September 2016.
 
 In January 2017, TOI reported that senior corporation officials were re-thinking the execution of the project. It was suggested that a feasibility study may be required to determine whether the project is viable. Since then, there has been no word regarding the commissioning of such a study.
 
