AHMEDABAD: Even as the Supreme Court refused to lift National Green Tribunal’s   kite-string, Gujarat high court on Friday spared the crushed glass-coated cotton string for kite flying in the state, just a day ahead of the  .

 A bench of Chief Justice R S Reddy and Justice A G Uraizee directed the state government to strictly implement its prohibition of Chinese or nylon threads for kite flying and asked the authorities to take all possible steps to prevent manufacturing, storage and sale of ‘Chinese manja’. Action has been ordered against those persons who manufacture and sell these prohibited threads and lanterns.
 
  The HC also asked the government to stick to its prohibitory orders on   to prevent fire hazards.
 
 The high court issued these directions as interim measures in urgency, because Uttarayan is to be celebrated on Saturday. This happened in response to PILs demanding a complete ban on all kinds of glass-coated thread called manja, because their use is dangerous not only for commuters, but also for birds. They also cited the NGT order banning all kinds of threads that are glass-coated.
 
 The HC asked the authorities to make use of mass media to give wide publicity to the government notifications prohibiting Chinese thread and lanterns and to make the people aware about not using them.
 
 In sparing locally made manja, the HC accepted the state government’s view. It acknowledged the state’s argument that just by banning Chinese manja and synthetic thread for kite flying, the petitioners’ grievance regarding safety would be taken care of.
 
 The high court also accepted the government’s argument that without the glass-coated cotton thread, kite flying in Gujarat would be virtually impossible on the festival of Uttarayan. It could dampen the spirit of festival.
 
 The state government submitted that Uttarayan is the biggest festival of the state and thousands of families from the lower strata of society earn their livelihood in the cottage industry of making kites and preparing manja. The government also stressed on the religious and cultural importance of Uttarayan, stating that the festival of kite flying goes beyond religious boundaries and signifies cultural strength in the entire state.
 
