NOIDA: Afraid her son would spill the beans about her  , a 32-year-old woman plotted the murder of her teenage son, a Class X student. The boy had “disappeared” on January 2. 

 The teenager, Prashant (15), apparently saw his mother and her paramour, a friend of his father’s, in a compromising position and had questioned her about the affair. 
 
 He was later murdered by the paramour and the body thrown near a drain.
 
 According to police,   (40), a taxi driver and a resident of   in Sector 49, had lodged a man missing complaint on January 2 saying that his son did not return from a coaching class in the evening. 
 
 Amrish and his friend Jitu (27), also a taxi driver, searched for the missing boy and the two also went together to the police station to file the complaint. 
 
 The police, however, suspected Jitu’s behaviour. When the CCTV footages of the area were checked, it was found that Jitu was seen with the boy. “Questioned further, he confessed to his crime and revealed his relationship with Prashant’s mother,” said  , SHO, Sector 39 police station.
 
 According to the SHO, Jitu and Prashant’s mother got into a relationship five-six months back. On January 2, Prashant had seen the two together, following which he confronted his mother and threatened to tell his father about it. Prashant’s mothen then asked Jitu to “eliminate” him.
 
 According to police, the same evening, Amrish had asked Jitu to pick up Amrish’s niece from   station and drop her at Salarpur on the former’s bike. 
 
 However, Prashant’s mother sent him along with Jitu on the bike which Amrish was not aware of. On the way, Jitu stopped near the woods of Sector 96. “Jitu called Prashant near him and smashed his head with a stone inside the woods. He later threw the body on the banks of a drain,” Yadav said.
 
 Meanwhile, Amrish was told that the boy went for tuition and did not return. It was then that Jitu joined him in search of the boy. On Monday, the cops summoned Prashant’s mother and arrested her. The two were sent to jail.
 
 
