NEW DELHI: The election results in five states are a 
  where the poor get opportunities, rather than dole, and lighten the burden of the middle class, PM   said on Sunday.

 
  here, 
  for the rest of his term, saying the party had come to symbolise popular aspirations and must make all efforts to meet expectations. He reminded the party, without naming Congress, that its leaders depended on hard work and not legacies to rise in politics.
 
 “Ek naye Hindustan ke darshan ho rahe hain mujhe. (I can see the vision of a new India),”   said, adding that BJP’s big success in UP, with the large population and size, could help set the country in a new direction. “The 
  . The poor are saying they will rather work than receive. Give me the opportunity, I will work hard, they are saying,” the PM said.
 
 Modi also praised   chief  , saying equal credit should go to him and party cadres for BJP’s success.
 
 “Under Amitbhai, the party has not only won polls but has grown by leaps and bounds, spreading across the country and we can proudly claim to be part of the largest party in the world,” he said. Modi said the BJP government would take everyone along as “in democracy, governments are formed with a majority but run with consensus”.
 
 Striking a conciliatory note, he added, “This government is of those who have voted for it and also those who have not. Of those who have walked along, and also of those who have not.”
 
 The PM also adroitly linked his pitch to the middle class, reassuring this core BJP constituency that its interests have not been subsumed by the heightened emphasis on the underprivileged post-demonetisation, suggesting economic empowerment of the poor could mean a lessened tax burden.
 
 Expounding his formulation, Modi said, “Today, middle class has to bear the greatest burden of taxes, of rules and regulation, and observe social norms. The quantum of economic burden for the middle class is the most. This should reduce, the middle classes want hurdles to be removed so that they can be achievers. Once the poor begin to carry their own burden, the burdens on the middle class will reduce. This is new India.”
 
 He said the poor had come out of a mindset where they looked up to a patron or benefactor, an apparent reference to “mai-baap” politics he has often accused Congress of. Modi said BJP saw the mandate it had received as a “sacred direction” from the people to serve. “Work relentlessly to fulfil the aspirations of the janta janardhan,” he said.
 
 
 
 Speaking at BJP headquarters on Sunday, PM Narendra Modi recalled his 2014 speech while unveiling the manifesto and reminisced how it was criticised.
 
 “I had said I am new, can commit mistakes but will do nothing with ill intention. Hard work and transparency were the other pledges I had taken in the speech.”
 
 The PM asked the party to be humble in victory, a conciliatory message to the opposition after a bitter campaign and ahead of a Parliament session where the Centre hopes to pass the GST law.
 
 “Fruits make a tree stoop, nature inspires us that when the fruits of victory are in sight, we should stoop the most. We should not lust for office,” he said. On his reference to legacy politics, Modi said BJP should be grateful to a string of members who had sacrificed their all over generations.
 
 “Atalji, Advaniji, Kushabhau Thakre and Jana Krishnamoorthy have done everything to spread the party ideology.”
 
 Referring to the record turnout in the five states, the PM asked political pundits to change the discourse. “Political pundits should review how the party won with an overwhelming majority after a record turnout. I have seen a few experts discussing the verdict but they should change the discourse as how record turnout happened without an emotional issue in play,” Modi said.
 
 He said that rising poll percentage was a good sign for democracy. Asking people to take a pledge every year till 2022 when the country completes 75 years of independence, Modi said, “If 125 crore people of the country take a pledge every day, the country will not lag behind in the race for development.”
 
 
 
 While BJP is in the grip of euphoria over its success in assembly elections, PM Modi has struck the right note by cautioning his party against engaging in triumphalism. 
 
 He has also said, correctly, that BJP should take the mandate as abrief from the voter to perform, rather than interpret it as a licence to indulge themselves. Hubris comes easily to victors and history is littered with instances of parties frittering away their successes by misreading them as entitlements to pander to their biases and whims. 
 
 Being someone who has won his electoral battles to consolidate his position and that of the party, Modi certainly knows a few things on how to use wins.
 
 Modi has also rightly emphasised that while governments are formed by the support of the majority, they need to rule by consensus and take everyone along, including those who opposed them.
 
 Partisan combativeness is essential only during electoral battles. Parties which persist with it even after winning office have invariably done so at the cost of their mandate.
 
