A cat stirred up a controversy when it was operated in the open, just for   The animal was also put on display and even ‘made to pose’ for a photograph alongside   and   The operation was performed at the Animal Husbandry department’s stall at a Krishi Mahotsav in Bhuj. Whether it was the doctor’s opportunity to showcase his dexterity, none knows yet, but animal lovers and animal groups across the state and country were angered by the act which culminated in the death of the cat. And in what could only be called a cat’s ‘nine-life’ act – turns out it is all alive and kicking – the officials from animal husbandry department had to clarify the status, and that the cat is making fast recovery. Adding fuel to the already blazing fire, news came in of how the cat was kept under the influence of an aesthetic until State Agricultural Minister, Chimanbhai Saparia, arrived at the mahotsav. The operation was commenced once Saparia joined the ‘show’.

 
 
 Animal rights activist and Union Cabinet Minister for Women & Child Development Menka Gandhi told Mirror, “It is shameful when veterinary doctors conduct surgery on an animal for the viewing pleasure of politicians and VVIPs. Doctors must stop themselves from indulging in this sort of publicity for VVIPs. They could have displayed the surgery on a TV set in the stall.”
 
 
 
 Deputy Director of Animal Husbandry department, KG Bramhkhtriya, said, “We have put up stalls at all Krishi Mahotsavs so far. At the inauguration, we decided to sterilise a cat for the public to see. And we even sought the consent of the cat’s owner before going ahead with the operation. We administered anaesthesia on the cat first and waited till agri minister arrived, as we had planned to conduct the operation in his presence. But then, rumour spread that the animal perished on the operation table. We want to clarify that the cat is alive and well, and has been shifted to its home.”
 
 
 
 Dr Kuldip Chhatbar, who operated on the cat, said, “The cat’s owner consulted with me few days ago on neutering her pet. As we didn’t have the required medicines on the day, we postponed the surgery. However, on the eve of the Krishi Mahotsav, we received all the medicines along with necessary equipment. Thus we decided to conduct the surgery in public, so that people can see and observe how important our work is.” “We got consent from the cat’s owner and conducted the surgery in presence of the State Agriculture Minister, and local MLA Vasanbhai Ahir.
 
 The operation lasted 30 minutes and the cat’s condition is stable. This is not the first operation to be conducted in the open. I see no reason why a controversy should crop up,” Chhatbar added. Meanwhile, Chimanbhai Saparia said, “The operation was on schedule when we reached the stall. There are no operation theatres in Bhuj for animals, so we had no option. This also gave us the opportunity to display the unique work undertaken by the state government for the care of animals.”
 
