PUNE: There is no let-up in the   action against those   The department is particularly going after those who end up   on the road by breaking the law.

 From May 4, all 28 divisions of the traffic police have started a campaign to penalise car drivers not wearing seat belts. 
 
 According to statistics shared by the department, the total number of those fined in just two weeks is almost equal to a quarter of the year’s total so far.
 
 Ashok Morale, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) has urged citizens to follow rules for their own safety. “It’s unfortunate that drivers play with their lives even when the safety gear is provided in the car. All they have to do it put it (seatbelt) on when they sit in the car,” he said.
 
 The traffic police have also taken steps to discourage the rampant use of tinted film on car windows and windscreen. A drive started in April against the offence has picked up pace since May 4.
 
 Under the campaign, those caught driving vehicles with tinted film on the glass are penalized Rs 200 and the tinted film is pulled-off on the spot by police personnel.
 
 According to data provided by the department, more than 9,000 such drivers have been penalized by the police since May 4. 
 
 In a May 2012 judgement, the Supreme Court had prohibited the use of black films of any   transmission (VLT) percentage or any other material on the safety glasses, windscreens (front and rear) and side glasses of all vehicles throughout the country.
 
 Complying with the law is easy, insisted Morale. “We are catching several hundred offenders everyday. Contrary to all accusations, our department is only enforcing the rules. When there is a law in place, it is inexcusable when car drivers flout it,” he said. 
 
 Until last month, the Pune traffic police had cracked down on those driving on the wrong side of the road and had succeeded in curbing the offence to some extent. Erstwhile deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   had then hinted at bringing back the campaign.
 
  He had pointed out, “This problem definitely needs sustained enforcement. We have noticed that drivers get brazen about driving on the wrong side when they know the traffic cop is not there, or if it’s just a short distance and they can make a quick dash.”
 
