KATOL/JALALKHEDA: Resentment is running high in Katol taluka’s   hamlet, where almost every resident stands in support of 32-year-old Salim Shah, who was recently beaten up by ‘gau-rakshaks’ for allegedly carrying beef. He is currently in police custody on the same charge.

 Shah’s family is still reeling in uncertainty and fear, even as the neighbours express solidarity with the man who has grown up along with them. Local civic body employee Manoj  , local grocer Shabbir Shah, Gaffoor Sheikh, Vicky and many others came out to speak in favour of Shah when TOI visited the area on Sunday.
 
 It was only after neighbours started speaking that the family members too walked out of the house to share information. “He was in great pain, specially behind the ears and head. People consume tobacco, which is banned, but do you thrash anyone in such merciless manner,” asked a family member. “His wife (Nazreen) is still hospitalized due to the trauma. The children are on the verge of falling ill, as there is no one to take care of them; the rest of the family is engaged in arranging bail and helping Shah, who is now in police custody,” said another kin, who was visiting the family.
 
 Shah’s father Ismail was too cagey to step out of the home, while the children had fear writ on their faces. The poor family does not know how to cope with the situation. This was their first interaction with the police machinery. Every stranger at their doorstep is seen as a police personnel in plain clothes or an informer.
 
 As the bandobast has been withdrawn from the locality, strangers stepping into the neighbourhood get curious looks from nearby houses. The media has become a regular feature for the neighbours and also the Shahs.
 
 The family’s neighbour Shendre wondered how the poor trader, with the man-next-door image, has been turned into such a big villain by society. “We have been seeing Shah from the days he used to be in half-pants. He has never been involved in any kind of unruly behaviour,” said Shendre. “Living peacefully with each other is not only about Shah’s character, but it is a common factor for most living in Hattikhana,” he said.
 
 The BJP’s incumbent minority cell president of the district, Ramzan Ansari, also a neighbour of Shah, too said there was nothing objectionable about Shah’s behaviour. He still feels that those who thrashed Shah should be punished. “There is an over 100-years-old mosque in the middle of the locality. The trustee of the mosque is a   activist. There are around 150 Muslim families living peacefully with almost 200 Dalit and another 50 sanitary workers’ families in the locality. There are also Hindus in big numbers, but there is no history of communal disharmony,” he said.
 
 Outside Narkhed court, TOI met Shah’s younger brother Taslim. He said that the assaulters had repeatedly struck Shah with a stick where he had undergone an operation for renal calculus last year. “My brother did not even know in the beginning why he was being thrashed,” he said.
 
 TOI also met Shah’s mother Rehana, just discharged from hospital after being admitted on hearing about her son. She was turned away from Jalalkheda police station, where she had taken home food and medicines prescribed by the doctors of Mayo Hospital, where Shah was admitted last Wednesday after being thrashed. “I requested the cops to take the medicines at least, so he can have them. A cop misbehaved with me, saying I should consume the food myself and also gulp down the medicine,” she said.
 
 
