NEW DELHI: Scoring your first Test century must be considered one of any batsman’s best memories; to convert that into a double and finally a triple-century - that too unbeaten - ranks as an even more cherished landmark. Perhaps even the stuff of dreams.

 But cricket can be a cruel game, particularly when it comes to team selection and players drafted in a replacements for injured first-choice picks. Such is the case of  , who found himself out of India’s playing XI for the ongoing one-off Test against Bangladesh in Hyderabad, as the returning Ajinkya Rahane was drafted back in. In India’s last Test, against England in Chennai in December, the 25-year-old scored 303 not out, just the third triple-century by an Indian batsman. In reply to England’s 477, India posted their Test highest total of 759/7 out of which Nair’s contribution was that exceptional unbeaten triple-hundred. 
 
 Anil Kumble, India’s coach, had hinted this week that Nair would be extremely unlucky to miss out on playing the Hyderabad Test, on account of one-time Test vice-captain Rahane returning from the finger injury that ruled him out of the last two Tests against England. In being dropped from India’s XI, Nair has become just the second batsman in the history of Test cricket to miss their next match after scoring a triple-century (the other was England batsman Andy Sandham, who scored 325 against West Indies in 1930 and did not play again). 
 
 On that note, here’s a look at a few other instances when batsmen were dropped after scoring big hundreds.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Gillespie was a fine fast bowler, taking 249 wickets in a career spanning 71 Tests to rest at seventh on Australia’s list of leading bowlers. Against Bangladesh in Chittagong in 2006, Gillespie wrote his name in cricket’s history ledger by compiling the highest Test score by a nightwatchman and was never picked again. Walking in at the fall of Ricky Ponting, the tailender went on to feature in a stand of 320 for the fourth wicket with Michael Hussey and batted nine-and-a-half hours for an unbeaten 201 from 425 balls, hitting 26 fours and two sixes out of a total of 581/4 declared. 
 
 He was named Man of the Match and Player of the Series in Australia’s 2-0 sweep, averaging 231 with the bat at 11.25 with the ball but that Chittagong match turned out to be his final Test. Half-jokingly, Gillespie asked the chairman of selectors: “is that decision based on my last performance?”
 
 
 
 
 In June 1967 at Leeds, England beat India by six wickets in the first Test of the series, with opener Boycott making 246 not out in a total of 550/4 declared. His innings spanned 573 minutes and needed 555 deliveries, and remains Boycott’s personal best in Tests. However, he was promptly for the next match, with the chairman of selectors Doug Insole stating that England needed to play ‘brighter’ cricket. 
 
 
 
 
 One for the trivia books. Which batsman holds the highest batting average ever, scored a century in his only Test innings and never played again? The late West Indies cricketer Ganteaume, who passed away at the age of 95 in 2016, had the extraordinary record of scoring a century in his only Test innings and never being called on again. Despite scoring 112 against England in 1948, Ganteaume fell victim to racial politics and was never recalled, made to pay the price for playing in an era when teams in the Caribbean were selected and captained by members of the white establishment. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 The maverick South African-born England batsman played several gems during his illustrious but rocky Test career. One of these came against the country of his berth in August 2012, during an acrimonious time for Pietersen. That stroke-filled 149 was his 21st Test century and helped England go past South Africa’s 419, and fetched him the Man-of-the-Match award. During that innings, Pietersen crossed 7,000 Test runs and went past his captain Andrew Strauss as the eighth highest scoring England batsman. And yet for the next Test at Lord’s, England dropped Pietersen over allegations that he sent derogatory text message about Strauss and coach Andy Flower to members of the South African team. 
 
 
 
 
 Arguably Sri Lanka’s greatest batsman, the pint-sized de Silva took 206 off 235 balls with 28 fours and a six off Bangladesh’s bowling attack at the P Sara Oval in July 2002, an innings that helped the hosts won by an innings and 196 runs. It was de Silva’s second Test double-century, and helped Sri Lanka scored 509 runs in one day. For the next Test, the selectors chose to rest de Siva, Muttiah Muralitharan, Mahela Jayawardene, Marvan Atapattu and Kumar Sangakkara. That Test turned out to be de Silva’s last. 
 
 
 
 
 You come back, you score your highest score and you feature in the fourth-highest fourth-wicket stand of all time in Test cricket. And then you’re dropped. In a stop-start Test career, left-hand batsman Marsh has been in and out of Australia’s side on account of indifferent form. But in December 2015, Marsh found himself out of the Boxing Day Test after scoring a fine 182 in Australia’s crushing innings-and-212-run win the preceding match in Hobart. Back in the XI as replacement for the injured Usman Khawaja, the 32-year-old batsman forged a record alliance of 449 with Adam Voges and hit his personal best. But when Khawaja was passed fit for the MCG Test, Marsh was the man to make way.
 
