If Pune is really a hub for traditional and experimental theatre, why is there a divide between English, Marathi and other vernacular theatre? How could the form be made more inclusive and used as a tool for change? These questions, and more, seemed to be reason enough for the city’s theatre enthusiasts to convene and dialogue.

 The Empress Garden donned a purple mood on Tuesday evening as members from various theatre groups met. It was here that plans were announced to set up a platform called ‘Purple Theatricals’, one that would work towards bringing about more equality in and through theatre (and other 
 performance arts).
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Says theatre professional  , one of the brains behind the idea, “As a society, we are consistently finding our spaces to share being threatened. There’s a dearth of places where people can meet to openly discuss. Theatre is what we do, so its our medium to help address this.” Theatre professional  , also behind the initiative, adds, “We have the tendency to work in our own spheres, evident from the fact that people 
 living in Camp, for example, know little about the wonderful work in  , and vice versa. There’s a need to change many perceptions too, such as, English theatre is expensive — this is a generalisation. We’re hopeful that this platform can help work towards encouraging more safe spaces and collaborations that will ensure equality through performance arts, and not just theatre.”
 
 The evening saw members getting into groups and discussing issues affecting the circuit, such as, why it’s hard for people to come together and do a production, the feasibility of staging plays and whether there’s a divide between the various theatre groups spread across Pune, and solutions to the same. There were great ideas that came up, such as that of having regular play readings, pooling in of resources, be it spaces for practice or building a bank of actors. The evening ended with an open mic session and the promise to meet again.
 
 The platform is already gearing up for its first managed venture, a stand-up performance featuring Cyrus Broacha and Aditi Mittal. Exciting times lie ahead. Watch this space for more.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
