THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Finance minister TM   said in the assembly that the state government expects the plan fund expenditure to cross 80% by the end of the current fiscal. On Tuesday, Isaac said that local self-government institutions (LSGI) need not spend funds without prudence as they can carry forward the unspent amount for works approved during this financial year. 

 Isaac was responding to former chief minister  's statement that the government should give importance to the fact that the   government did not spend plan fund in an optimum manner in its first year. "The plan fund expenditure of the UDF government during its first year was 98% and the spending by LSGIs was 77%. But plan fund spending in the current fiscal has reached only 43% and that of LSGIs is only 23%," Chandy said.
 
 Isaac, who refuted the allegations raised by the opposition, told the house that the LDF government has come up with an alternative development agenda and it has successfully laid the foundation for all its ambitious programmes. The minister said KIIFB did not need any special sanction from the Union government or RBI. "KIIFB takes loans as per the conditions laid down by RBI for similar institutions. There is no question of KIIFB needing special sanction from RBI or the Union government to carry forward its activities," Isaac said.
 
 He was replying to the discussion in the house on vote on account for next four months. Vote on account is a special provision by which the government obtains the consent of the house for using a sum sufficient to incur expenditure on various items for a part of the year. This enables the government to fund its expenses for a short period of time or until a full budget is passed.
 
 Former finance minister KM Mani reiterated his stand that he was not against the government carrying out necessary corrections in the tax provisions so that the purchase tax, inadvertently imposed during the UDF rule, can be rolled back. CAG has recently criticized the government for not collecting the purchase tax from gold merchants.
 
