It was October 2016, the presidential elections were two weeks away, and Washington DC had one woman on its mind: Emma. The spirited heroine of Jane Austen's 1815 novel was the polestar of the annual general meeting of JASNA — the   Society of  . As Janeites — universal devotees of Jane — crowded the J W Marriott for lectures, exhibitions and, of course, the Regency Ball, one group piqued everyone's curiosity: the  . 

 "Will she be wearing a burqa? Do they allow women in Pakistan to read?" These were some of the questions milling around Laaleen Sukhera before she silenced everyone in a black Regency gown and a gold pelisse. "They said your English is very good," Sukhera laughs on the phone from Lahore as she recalls their surprise at having a preconception shattered with the flick of a ribbed fan.
 
 Starting off as a Facebook fan-page two years ago The Jane Austen Society of Pakistan (JASP) is now a full-fledged literary society. Members were interviewed this July for a British documentary on the bicentenary of Austen's death, and they've been called by the Jane Austen House Museum in Chawton, Hampshire, to be part of their Community Story Quilt project, where over 40 groups around the world will sew a quilt block, which when put together will form a patchwork narrative of Austen's life. In the Jane Austen firmament, JASP is now a rising star. 
 
 From a handful of Janeites in Islamabad, the society has grown to nearly 1,500 online members from 45 countries, including India and the UAE. While members keep up the chatter on Facebook and WhatsApp, it is their annual costume tea party that has caught the world's attention. In a ritual that unfolds once a year in an Islamabad or Lahore mansion, two dozen women from the society come kitted out in empire-waist dresses and pearls, their gloved hands dangling reticules as they take their places around a table laden with cucumber finger sandwiches, Victoria sponge cake and Earl Grey tea. 
  
 "At the second party, we came dressed as characters from Jane Austen novels," says Sukhera. "I was Caroline Bingley and my friend, Saniyya Gauhar, was Elizabeth Bennet. It was fun snubbing her." The evening was a riot, she recalls, as members got into character and the conversations became truly Austenesque.
 
 The society now has chapters in Lahore, Islamabad, Karachi and London. At meet-ups, discussions stretch from Austen in the news to Austen in their lives. "For instance, we'll discuss parallels between Elinor and   (Sense and Sensibility) and Elizabeth and Margaret Windsor (from  's The Crown); or Jane Austen vs Charlotte Bronte — do women authors create the most romantic heroes? Favourite and least favourite heroines, frenemies, heroes, cads, screen portrayals — we never run out of topics," says Sukhera.
 
 Interestingly, 7% of their Facebook membership is male, though no man has turned up for dress-ups yet, which is perhaps for the best. "A lot of us are simultaneously romantic and cynical, so there tends to be a double-edged tone to our character analyses," says Sukhera. "I remember at one meet-up, one of our members said her husband was just like Darcy to her and there was a startled hush followed by a collective sigh! And we laugh a lot about the number of annoying Mr Collinses one has to endure or avoid in our social circles, and wish there were more Wentworths and Brandons and Knightleys."
 
 They may be separated by two centuries, a continent and a culture, but the members feel they have plenty in common with Austen's 18th century world, hobbled by patriarchy, class conventions and still cleaving to the sub-continental credo that marrying rich is marrying right. Sophia Saifi from Islamabad weighs in, saying, "Like the Regency era that was gripped by the Napoleonic wars and their aftermath, turmoil beyond the social bubble remains irrelevant to the microcosm of upper and middle-class society. 'Polite' society is largely cosseted and safe from such 'vulgar' topics except as part of drawing room banter and as fuel for armchair activism." Mishayl Naek from Karachi adds: "Frivolity is key; one can never underestimate the emotional impact of the fashionably cut 'chikankari kameez' on a social gathering!"
 
 However, author and recent JASP inductee, Shazaf Haider believes Austen's books are relevant to all, not just Pakistani society. "What is familiar is that in Pakistan and the subcontinent, marriage remains the ultimate goal for all women and this determines the way they behave, manipulate each other, pretend, and so on. The books also offer a way to be authentic in the midst of such role-playing and pretence because all of Austen's heroines remain firmly themselves despite the fact that society wishes them to be otherwise. That is a timeless appeal."
 
 As Jane Austen reclines on her heavenly chaise lounge (hopefully no stiff wooden chairs up there) she must be gratified to know the sisterhood has spread to the subcontinent, and the women slipping into their customised gowns in Islamabad, Lahore and Karachi have found common cause with her line: None of us want to be in calm waters all our lives.
 
