When this beauty first appeared on the silver screen next to   in 'Lucky — No Time For Love' (2005), many mistook her to be Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s doppelganger. Though she initially enjoyed the spotlight following her uncanny resemblance, but soon set out to achieve goals being who she really is —  . And today, the actor is back and is set to start her second innings in Tollywood with debutant director-actor Charantej’s   starring   as lead. In a freewheeling chat with Hyderabad Times, Sneha reveals what kept her away from doing films, why inter-religious love affairs are difficult and her next Bollywood venture. Excerpts:

 
 
 First of all, I would like to clarify that it’s not a ‘comeback’. I think a comeback is when you intentionally leave the industry and try to make a return. But I never left the industry; it’s just that I wasn’t doing films due to severe health issues. A lot of my fans kept asking me where I have disappeared all these four years, why I wasn’t doing films. Well, I’m here now.
 
 
 
 I was diagnosed with an ‘auto immune disorder’. It’s a blood-related illness where my own immune system kept me unwell. So my body would become so weak that I would not be able to stand on my feet for more than 30 to 40 minutes and because I kept shooting for films even with this illness, it got worse. Beyond a point, I didn’t have the strength to do what an actress is expected to do — running around, dancing and continuous shooting etc. That’s when I had to stop and start my medication, because, there was no point in doing films and then falling sick every other day. 
 
 
 
 Physically I was weak but mentally I was strong all throughout these four years. All my close friends in Mumbai and the South kept boosting my morale at every point. Along with 
 medication I stated working on my fitness to gain strength. So my schedule would be getting up aramse in the morning, have healthy and heavy breakfast and wait for the food to digest. Later, in the afternoon I would go for yoga, come back and have a healthy meal. I was on a gluten free diet. I was also avoiding sugar and dairy products completely.
 Evenings would be about spending times in the gym, jogging and swimming. The workouts in the gym helped me gain a lot of strength because the medicines I was taking were pretty strong and had side effects. There were times when I did not look great, and when you’re not at your best, you don’t want to step out of the house and that’s what I did. I stopped attending events, missed so many award functions, because as an actress you have to look good all the time. And if you don’t, people won’t understand why.
 
 
 No way, I was never under depression, no chance. I have a cool family and friends who were there for me all the time. And for me my job is not everything, I spent time with my near and dear ones and went on vacations and stuff, because I always knew that when I’m fine I’ll bounce back. See, I never told spoke about my illness to people, even when my fans kept asking me on social media. I told them I’m not keeping well so not doing any films, but will be back. I did not want to gain fan’s sympathy for my illness. I felt let everybody think what they want to, I’ll wait for the right time. Now, I’m here, fully fit and fine. I won’t say I’m cured because this disease is like diabetes which is not curable but can be kept under control. So my illness is under control right now and I’m set to get going. 
 
 
 Yes, it’s true that I’ve a dual role in the film, one is of Charantej’s best friend who helps him with his love story with Amala and the second is that of a mermaid. If I’m not wrong, it’s after ages that somebody is going to play a mermaid in a Telugu film and I’m excited. The character of Charantej’s best friend will see me as a bindass, relaxed, helpful and a straight forward girl; the way I am in real life. She will sport a Westernised look in terms of costumes and stuff. I don’t want to go traditional for this movie because, till date, the way I’ve been portrayed in Telugu films, I didn’t like it a bit. The makers of 'Ayushman Bhava' are getting the best of graphic people from across India for my mermaid look and I’m sure it will be amazing for my fans to see me back in such an avatar. We haven’t decided on the look and costumes for the role yet. Let’s see, I cannot wait to start the shoot in the first week of June.
 
 
 
 Well, inter-religious love stories have always been difficult. Even my first relationship long back was with a Muslim boy. We did have glitches and I know how difficult such relationships can get. I’m a strong believer of love and think it to be nothing short of a religion, but it is difficult when either one of you is not willing to compromise. It’s very difficult if you don’t find somebody in the same wavelength, it will never work. I hope this film receives a positive response.
 
 
 Oh yes! I was to be re-launched two years back in Bollywood but I couldn’t take up that project due to my health issues. But yes, I’ve a Bollywood film in my kitty and after I finish shooting for 'Ayushman Bhava', I’ll start shooting for it in October. I cannot talk anything else about it right now.
 
 
 
