JAIIPUR: The   or   of   and chairperson or   in the state can be removed through a   

 After the state government cancelled the provision of recall for removing the heads and deputy heads of municipal bodies and introduced the provision of motion of no-confidence through the Rajasthan Municipalities (Second Amendment) Bill, 2017, the local self-government department released the rules on Thursday.
 
 As per the rules, to bring the no-confidence, a written notice of intention to make motion of no -confidence in the chairperson or vice chairperson should be signed by three-fourth eligible members of municipality together with a copy motion. It should be sent to the district collector who will convened a meeting for the consideration of motion at the municipality office on a date and time appointed by him. “ The collector shall send by registered post not less than seven days before the date of the meeting a notice of such meeting and of the date and time fixed therefore to every eligible member of municipality.” read rules
 
 It is mandatory that three - fourth of the number of eligible member should be required to form the quorum. No meeting will be held for consideration of the motion of no confidence in absence of quorum. “ The motion of no confidence shall be deemed to have been lost if required members of quorum are not present within an hour from the time appointment of the meeting.” mentioned in the rules
 
 It was informed , as soon as the quorum is completed , the collector shall read the motion for the consideration for which the meeting has convened and declare it to be open for discussion. 
 
 If the motion is carried by majority of three- fourth number of eligible members, the motion will be deemed to have been passed against the Chairperson or Vice - chairperson and he/she will have to vacate the office. 
 
 It was informed, the previous Congress government had introduced direct elections for heads of urban bodies and also gave rights to the people to remove the heads through the process of recall. The present government has reintroduced provision of indirect elections for urban bodies' heads so the amendment has been brought to give the powers to the councillors.
 
 
