MANALI: The sixth national level   on Monday with   and 39 others from Himachal and other states taking part in it. Various tableaux, folk dresses and dramatic presentations of traditional lifestyle were showcased in a procession which passed through the main market here.

 The official beginning of the carnival took place after puja at   temple early in the morning. The cultural troops came to the main town, where thousands of people queued up on both sides of the road to watch them. The processions ended at Manu Rangshala, an open air theatre, where various cultural and other programmes will be presented for the next five days. At the theatre, minister of housing and urban development Sudhir Sharma, who was the chief guest, lit a lamp.
 
 Seven states including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Assam and Karnataka will present various folk programmes till January 6. Hotels are offering a discount of up to 50% to attract more tourists.
 
 An American tourist,  , said he was impressed to see the Indian culture, especially of Kullu, at one place. “It was like I travelled through time, from the caveman era to the modern world. People should preserve their local culture which is what tourists like when visiting places,” he said.
 
 Manali sub-divisional magistrate H R Bairwa, who is also vice-president of the winter carnival committee, said, “We are ensuring maximum participation of tourists and treating them as special guests.” 
 
 Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus Khan, who is the chairman of the carnival committee, said, “We have set up a separate market where tourists will get to taste local cuisine – siddu, gicchay, aksalu and femda – which are being prepared by local women and cannot be found in shops.”
 
 The winter carnival of Manali was first held in 1977, when it was started to promote winter games and local culture. Organizers used to conduct skiing competitions at Solang. But lack of snow led to cancellation of the event for last many years.
 
 Box
 
 Monorail in Manali
 
 Housing and urban development minister Sudhir Sharma, who was the chief guest at the Manali winter carnival, said since traffic was a major problem here, they could look into the possibility of running a monorail in the township. He also released funds to strengthen parking infrastructure in the town. Given a large number of fire incidents in the region, he also sanctioned a fire sub-station at Patlikuhl, 20km from Manali. He said a DPR for Rs 3 crore has been prepared to link the houses to sewerage facility which are not availing this facility. He also directed to prepare a DPR for garbage management in the town.
 
