Thane: A dedicated   will be deployed at areas that are cleared of illegal   to make sure that they do not   again to the spots to conduct their business. 

 A joint meeting between civic chief Sanjeev Jaiswal and police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Friday, decided on the idea for both the agencies to work together and keep miscreants at bay. Civic officials said that the agencies will form separate cells to counter both illegal auto drivers and hawkers from congesting vital road stretches. 
 
 A civic official said, “The police and civic authorities will jointly monitor the affected areas in the city. A senior police official will remain present along with civic officials while we will also explore additional space for their relocation.”
 
 The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), since last week, has been undertaking drives to evict hawkers from select locations in the city, including station area, Subhash Road and Gladys Alwares Road, but the encroachers have been returning to the spot once the civic convoy leaves. 
 
 Meanwhile, the issue of haphazardly parked autos and vehicles was also discussed in the joint meeting with the TMC reportedly assuring to add teeth to the drives undertaken by the traffic police to clear road stretches of illegally parked vehicles. Three cranes owned by the TMC will be deployed in the team looking out for illegally parked cars at the station and prime areas of the city. Further, all scrap vehicles presently lying along roadsides will be dispatched to Daighar. In addition to this, the agencies have also talked of installing high definition cameras in vantage points and use of drones to effectively monitor hawker and congestion-prone areas in the city.
 
 “We will get to the root of the problem and will not spare those who covertly support the illegal encroachments or any such activity in the city. Appropriate action will be taken against those supporting the hawker menace to flourish in Thane,” said Jaiswal.
 
 Activists have lauded the effort saying it is a welcome move but added that it should not fizzle out like earlier attempts. “Most of the roads widened in the city saw encroachments and several promises made by the TMC in the past failed to clear the areas. We only hope the agencies can combat the menace effectively,” said an activist. 
 
 Meanwhile, auto unions have demanded that a police case be filed against Jaiswal for reportedly assaulting hawkers and auto drivers last week. 
 
 “We condemn the attack by the municipal commissioner on innocent hawkers and auto drivers. We have warned of a protest on May 25 and called for a Thane bandh. Around 13 unions will be supporting us,” said an office bearer of a union in Thane during a press meet.
 
 The police and civic authorities will jointly monitor the affected areas in the city. A senior police official will remain present along with civic officials while we will also explore additional space for their relocation
 
 
