COIMBATORE: Six months after Hindu Munnani activist C Sasikumar was murdered, the CB- CID sleuths arrested a 29-year old man from Coimbatore on Wednesday, marking a major breakthrough. 

 J Syed Abudhakir of Rathinapuri was produced in the chief judicial magistrate court and remanded to custody for 15 days. 
 
 Police said Abudhakir has been booked under section 302 IPC for the murder of Sasikumar, but refused to divulge details of his role or motive. Though police have questioned several people, this is the first arrest in the case. 
 
 Abudhakir, a street hawker who sold clothes at Kottaimedu, was a close friend of two key suspects in the case, who are absconding since the night of September 22, 2016, when Sasikumar was hacked to death near his house at Subramaniampalayam in Thudiyalur.
 
 The CB-CID produced Abudhakir in the court only after his father approached the court complaing that his whereabouts were not known since Monday night, after a few policemen took him away. 
 
 According to his father Jaffar Ali, Abudhakir was picked up by police at gunpoint at 11.30pm on Monday from near   in Kottaimedu.
 
 Hearing his petition, the chief judicial magistrate issued a search order instructing the judicial magistrate III to submit a report on the whereabouts of Abudhakir. 
 
 In an apparent attempt to preempt further court intervention, the CB-CID sleuths produced him in court within five hours from the time the search order was issued.
 
 The CB-CID Special Investigation Division, which took over the probe from Coimbatore police, a month after the murder, had questioned more than 150 people so far but a breakthrough was elusive. 
 
 They had released photographs of certain people who were at the murder spot and sought information about them. That attempt too hit a dead-end. But the significant clue that the CB- CID cops got was that two men from Coimbatore - B Saddam Hussain and A Mubarak -- both from   have been missing since the murder. On February 7, the police issued a lookout notice on the two, suspecting that they might attempt to flee the country.
 
 Teams were also flagged off to   to find if they were hiding there. It was during the course of this hunt that the police started questioning Abudhakir, a close friend of the absconding duo. 
 
 Police said that they have questioned Abudhakir 12 times in the past and there were several contradictions in his statements, leading to suspicion.
 
 "Abudhakir's mobile phone records showed that he frequented the murder spot in the days prior to the attack. But when he was interrogated, he claimed that he had never visited the place,'' said a police officer. He had deleted several photos from his mobile phone when it was handed over to police. 
 
 
