THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The ongoing survey of   covering a distance of 60 kilometres will be completed by March 31. In a   held here on Monday, district collector   directed the officials to determine boundaries and lay survey stones before March 31. The first 32 kilometres of the survey will be completed by March 15. The second phase of survey will cover Varkala and Chirayinkeezhu areas over a distance of 28 kilometres. It was also decided to prepare maps of wide areas along the stretch and to determine areas which are not wide.
 
 The maps of areas in Varkala and Chirayinkeezhu will be prepared in next two days. The collector directed the officials to conduct the survey in a foolproof manner considering the fact that around 1300 encroachments have been identified in 26.7 kilometres of area surveyed. The district administration was directed to furnish information of landless - homeless people and homeless people who have to be rehabilitated along the side of TS canal in a meeting convened by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in September 2016. The encroachments will be identified from Veli- Varkala.
  
 The officials however doubt that the deadline for survey can be met as directed by the district collector. The survey of Parvathy Puthanar covering three revenue villages Pettah Kadakampally and Muttathara ought to have been completed by November 2016, however the survey is still progressing. The revenue team had to withdraw from survey activities at areas around airport at Muttathara after locals raised stern objection to carrying out land survey. The protests arose from the fear that they would be evicted from the area once survey is completed. The state government is yet to formulate a rehabilitation scheme for people who have encroached areas near Parvathy Puthanar.
  
 The team needs to cover seven revenue villages across a distance of 32 kilometres as part of establishing boundaries of Parvathy Puthanar. These villages include Muttathara, Pettah, Kadakampally, Attipra, Menamkulam, Kadinamkulam and Veyiloor. The teams have so far completed surveys at Pettah, Muttathara and Kadakampally. A small portion is left for survey at the border of Pettah and Muttathara revenue village as it is being put off owing to local protests. The survey at Attipra and Menamkulam has been proceeding smoothly as the resurvey has been completed in these revenue villages.
 
