KOLHAPUR: A 29-year-old man, along with his wife and three children, attempted suicide by jumping into the Koyna river near the   national highway on Tuesday.

 The man identified as Amol Hanmant Bongale, a resident of Bilbajar road at Karad’s Market yard was unable to pay debts amounting to Rs 25 lakh. He had borrowed the money from friends and relatives as he was jobless since 2011. He decided to take the extreme step with his 24-year-old wife and three children, including a 4-month-old daughter, on Tuesday early morning. However, Amol survived the incident and the rest of the family drowned.
 
 Karad police have arrested Amol. The deceased have been identified as his wife Meenaxi, children Harsh (3), Shravan (2) and the 4-month-old daughter whose name was yet to be decided. 
 
 Pramod Jadhav, senior police inspector, said, “We have arrested Amol and booked him under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for murdering his wife and children. According to his statement, he borrowed money from friends and family since 2011 which was amounted to Rs 25 lakh. He was jobless since 2011 and was surviving with borrowed money promising to return it after he got a job,” he said.
 
 On Tuesday, Amol called told his brother on the phone that he and his family were ending their lives by jumping into the Koyna river. He then turned off his phone.
 
 “His brother immediately alerted the Karad police station. A police team rushed to the spot and found a motorcycle parked on the bridge. With the help of the passersby, the team managed to spot Amol in the river. He was brought to the shore and was saved. But, we could not find his wife and children. Later, we recovered the bodies of his wife and children,” he said.
 
 After the incident, Amol was taken to the government hospital for treatment after which he was arrested. “Amol was working as a manager at a local beer bar in 2011. After a few months, he lost his job and was living by borrowing money from friends and relatives. After his marriage in 2012, his wife worked as a housemaid to sustain family, but never cared to work and continued borrowing money,” he said.
 
 According to his statement, he borrowed Rs 25 lakh from people since 2011. He decided to end his life after realising that he was unable to pay their dues. “We are gathering information about the details of the money he borrowed from people and how they used to lend him money since 2011,” Jadhav said.
 
