
It's a balmy morning and   in T Nagar is a hub of activity.
 
 Joggers pass by the open gym where women in saris use the air-walkers, and elderly people give their shoulders a workout by rotating the giant wheels. At the entrance, T S Babuji has set up a makeshift stall, complete with medical testing kits and a weighing machine. As people stream in, they pause, many opt to get their weight, blood pressure (BP) and blood sugar checked.
 
 “I was recently diagnosed with high BP and am on medication.Since I come every day to the park for a walk, it is easier to get my BP checked here; I can't go to a doctor all the time,“ says 53-yearold businessman S Ponnambalam.
 
 Public parks and beaches have become ideal spots for health marketing. While hospitals and healthcare centres offer attractive `packages', checking BP, blood sugar and weight, small vendors sell sprouts and fruits as well as soups and juices. And a few bigger brands try to market their energy drinks.
 
 While the test packages are attractive, some centres even home deliver medicines ­ a word of caution for the doctors. While opportunistic screening has its plus points, it also has room for error. And not every drink offers you a daily dose of health.
 
 At Natesan Park, Babuji, of Al-Shifa Healthcare Centre Madipakkam, is a regular from Monday to Friday for the last one year. “I check BP, blood sugar and weight for Rs 30,“ says Babuji, who is present from 6am to 9:30am. “Every day about 30 to 40 people opt for the package,“ he says.
 
 Dr M Savugar Sathik, who runs AlShifa, says his centre specialises in alternative medicine. “We have been sending trained personnel to the park as many people come there to exercise,“ he says.
 
 Institutions such as M V Hospital for   and Dr Mohan's Diabetes Specialities Centre have been conducting free awareness programmes and health check ups at parks, beaches and other public spaces for years. “It's usually people aged 40 and above, who frequent parks. Some of them may have diabetes or may be overweight and are advised to exercise by their physicians,“ says Dr Mohan, adding that they had been part of a project, PACE (prevention, awareness, counselling and evaluation), to raise awareness about diabetes. “We had personnel going to almost all the parks, colleges, government offices, corporate places, and religious institutes,“ he says, adding that they continued the exercise after the project was over.
 
 Dr Vijay Viswanathan of   says they have been sending educators and counsellors to certain city parks. “People who have a family history of diabetes or are borderline diabetic come there to exercise,“ he says, adding that they are now doing a   programme for WHO.
 
 While healthcare centres dole out tests and advice, small vendors selling healthy snacks and juices also do brisk business in these places. Sachidananda Panneerselvam and his friends gather around Abdul Rasheed's stall, and sip hot cups of soup and munch on sprouts. “We do yoga here every day at 5:30am and then have something healthy to eat before heading home,“ he says.
 
 Rasheed sells paper cups filled with a variety of sprouts for Rs 10, platefuls of vegetable and fruit salad for Rs 20, and juices of neem, amla, gooseberry, and soups. “I sell about 5 litres of soup every day and the business doubles on Sundays,“ he says.
 
 Companies have also been swift to spot the marketing opportunity. At   in Mylapore, two young girls wander up to a group of men playing badminton. Assuring them that their “energy drink“ is better than the morning cup of coffee, they pop open cans and hand them over to the bemused people. “This drink will give you high energy for five hours,“ they say , omitting the fact that it is loaded with sugar and not the ideal thing to have on an empty stomach.
 
 “People marketing such drinks shouldn't be allowed to do it here or give out wrong messages,“ says Dr Viswanathan, adding that people should take proper advice from a dietician, cardiologist andor physician before launching on a new health regime.
 
 Dr Mohan points out random tests conducted on the field also leave room for error.“It is called opportunistic screening, which has its plus points, as you can test people on the spot. But it has its pitfalls too ­ it could be the wrong time of the day; it is random blood sugar level, and a person who has been on a jog can even show raised BP ,“ he says, adding that the tests on the field are not diagnostic tests. “It is not done under laboratory conditions, so if you are told you have raised BP or blood sugar, you need to see a doctor and get a lab test done.“
 
 
