LUCKNOW:   patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav tore into  , accusing him of hobnobbing with a “rival political party” to land the party in deep crisis. He said Ram Gopal was orchestrating a split in the SP and backed his charge by claiming that he had already approached the   to register his new party by the name of   and sought motorcycle as its election symbol.

 “Everybody knows who has met the president of another party thrice. I know about their fourth meeting as well,” said Mulayam, adding, “He (Ram Gopal) wants to save his son and daughter-in-law who have landed in a mess. He should have approached me. I would have saved them. But he went to the rivals instead.” There are allegations of Ram Gopal’s family’s association with firms linked to the associates of tainted Noida chief engineer Yadav Singh, a charge that has been denied by Ram Gopal. Yadav Singh is in jail in connection with a disproportionate assets case.
 
 In an attempt to placate his son Akhilesh, Mulayam said he had warned him about the conspiracy and asked him to stay away from the controversy but in vain. “I will do whatever it takes to save the party and the symbol and hope you will all support me,” he said, talking to party workers at the SP headquarters on Wednesday in the presence of media.
 
 In an apparent reference to Akhilesh’s claim to the post of party president, Mulayam said he had already given up everything. “I have given up whatever I had. What is left with me? I only have your support,” he told party workers, recalling how he was jailed during the emergency and how his younger brother Shivpal was forced to go underground to evade arrest and mobilise support for him. The SP founder said he will not let go the party and the symbol and will save the SP from splitting at all costs.
 
 “I will give it in writing and give a copy of the documents to you all as well,” he said, adding that he cannot sit back and watch the party fall apart. “Hum kisi bhi qeemat par apni party ki ekta chahte hain,” (I want to see my party united at any cost),” he said. Shivpal, who had accompanied Mulayam to the party headquarters, left the meeting and went home only to join Mulayam on way to the airport from where they left together for Delhi. He said he had to meet someone in Delhi but described the engagement as apolitical.
 
 Mulayam is now expected to stay put in Delhi till January 13 when the Election Commission is slated to hold the final hearing of the petitions filed by the two factions of SP staking their claim over the party and the symbol. In the feud within the SP, party founder Mulayam and his brother Shivpal are on one side and Akhilesh and Mulayam’s cousin Ram Gopal are on the other. Both factions have recently met with Election Commission officials staking claim to the ‘cycle’.
 
