LUCKNOW: A day after calling upon party workers to make BJP ‘invincible’, its national president   shared the mantra with the cadre how to make UP ‘SP, BSP-mukt’— by robbing them of their core vote bank, Yadavs and  . Shah’s advice came just a few hours after he made a surprise trip to the house of Sonu  , a BJP worker in the city, to have lunch.

 “Focus on making more and more Yadavs and dalits as party members from now on,” Shah reportedly said at a meeting of vistaraks (those directly responsible for membership drive and expansion) on Sunday evening, the second day of his three-day stay in Lucknow as part of the national programme to strengthen the organisation and make it responsible and accountable with BJP and its allies in power at the Centre and 18 states.
 
 Shah candidly told the vistaraks to go to booths, search for Yadavs and Dalits and ask the booth in charge to enrol them as members. To prove his point, Shah even asked Yadavs and dalits among vistaraks to raise their hands. When very few hands were raised, Shah said that focus would have to be shifted towards increasing the number of members from these two sections.
 
 His sudden decision to have lunch at Sonu Yadav’s house, believe political observers, was also a part of this outreach. Before Vidhan Sabha elections, the BJP had taken several steps to woo non-Yadav OBCs and non-Jatav dalits. Shah even had lunch at an OBC member’s house near Varanasi and at a dalit's house in Lucknow. Organisationally, the UP BJP has appointed 118 vistaraks for 75 districts of UP. Each of them works under the supervision of Palaks. 
 
 BJP leaders claim that at present the party had 2 crore members in UP alone. After netting such a huge number, the master strategist is now going into specific details, a ‘vistaraka’ who took part in the meeting told TOI. “For example, he asked us to focus on those who have finished runners-up in the village pradhan elections, apart from targeting Yadavs and dalits,” he said. The party chief also saluted them, calling the ‘vistarakas’ the real workers of the organisation who work selflessly to expand the party base. 
 
 In 2017 UP elections and 2014   polls, BJP was able to make substantial dent in BSP’s dalit votebank, but despite its efforts, Yadavs have remained loyal to Samajwadi Party. Out of 5 seats that SP won four are from the Yadav belt — Mainpuri, Firozabad, Kannauj and Badaun. The fifth seat won by Mulayam, Azamagarh, is also Yadav-dominated. At present dalits form 21% and Yadavs 9% of the total vote share.
 
