 It was an unusual get-together of Delhi's who's who when designer   hosted the launch of Anti-Pollution Riot campaign in  . The event saw members of the city's fashion circuit talk about the alarming quality of air, rather than fashion. Guests made sure that they match their dresses to the dress code – Be Masked.

 
  
  Need pollution-free lungs:  
 
 
 
  
  Talking about the campaign, Gaurav said, "I feel that the situation is dire, but media and people are not talking about it enough. I think, this effort from me and my friends is so that people talk about it more, and if they do there will be more awareness of the shocking facts about the poor air quality in Delhi and other metros. Beijing goes on emergency when their air quality drops to 250ug/m3, and Delhi is between 250ug/m3 and 1000ug/m3, but people are not even talking about it. This situation is so urgent that people need to 'riot' about it, that’s why we have named this campaign Anti-Pollution Riot. For me, this is just the start, from awareness comes consensus and togetherness." When asked why a party was organized to launch such a serious campaign, Gaurav said, "This is one of many efforts. We will be hosting lectures, reaching out to schools, etc. this just a start. This is my crowd; these are the people I know. Also if you make things heavy people don’t realize how important the situation is. This is my way of expressing it."
 
  
  As Sunil Sethi wore the mask at the party, he gestured how he is now breathing cleaner air as compared to others
 
 
 
  
  Forgot your mask? Nikhil Mehra
 
 
 
  
  Archana Vijaya (BCCL)
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  Hosted in association with AD Singh, the event was attended by Sunil Sethi, Nida Mahmood, Mandira Wirk and Shantanu and Nikhil, among other 300-odd guests. On the occasion, AD said, "The gravity of the situation is quite shocking. For the first time, I really worry about my daughter being in Delhi. I think about moving to other parts of India, but that shouldn’t happen. I think things shouldn’t get so bad that people have to think about leaving the city, but that’s where it’s come to now. I don't care much for me, but for my daughter, for the next generation, the air that they are breathing is just horrible. But it is so little, so late, but that’s what tonight is about, it is about building momentum."
 
  
  Samant Chauhan (BCCL)
 
 
 
 
  
  Neesha Singh
 
 
  
  Aman Nath
 
 
 
  
  Jai Dhar Gupta
 
 
 
  
  Talking about two mannequins installed at the event, Sethi said, "These mannequins were originally made for another project, but with his innovation and creativity, Gaurav has added this mask to it."
 
  
  (L-R) Anirudh Birla, Priyanka Modi and Anju Modi (BCCL)
 
 
  
  Harathi Rebello
 
 
 
  
  Nikhil and Shantanu (BCCL)
 
 
  
  Pallavi Mohan
 
 
 
 
 When asked if getting rid of 'fast fashion' will help reducing pollution, Samant said, "As Indians, we are not always polluting. I remember when I used to wear certain clothes and then when I grew out of them, they were passed on to my younger brother. And after him, my mother used to use those clothes for dusting and other cleaning purposes. So as Indians, we are anyway born with an idea to recycle and make the maximum use of a thing. But even in fashion, we should consciously wear more timeless pieces so that they can be passed down."
 
  
  Anita and Vikram Baidyanath
 
 
 
 
  Jai Dhar Gupta, CEO of Vogmask, said, "We wanted to start a campaign that works with thought-leaders and influencers of the country on board. Awareness proceeds change, and we are trying to bring awareness. Everyone here, in this party, is a thought leader and we want to get access to their followers, as we want the message to go down that we have a problem and we have to join in hands."
 
 
  
  Shivan and Narresh (BCCL)
 
 
 
  
  Gautam and Prateek Jain
 
 
 
  — Aditi.Malewar@timesgroup.com
 
