Nagpur: Last year, a small advertisement appeared in all the newspapers of Nagpur, inviting ladies staying without a partner to come together to form a group. “The full address was not given. I saw that advertisement and went searching for Varsha Basu in Abhyankar Nagar,” says Sarita Raut, an employee in a private company. 

 Raut separated from her husband after she found out that he had been cheating on her. “I used to keep feeling disturbed, but that day, I shared all my problems with the group, and now, after a year, my mind feels fresh. We’ve been engaging in productive things like learning English, for instance. This family is always there to help each other,” she says.
 
 ‘Dear Ones’, the group formed by journalist Varsha Basu, celebrated its first anniversary on Sunday evening at Pune Sevasadan Society. Basu herself has been living alone for the past 20 years owing to life’s ups and downs. “Staying alone gives you strength, but it also brings problems. I thought it will be nice to find other women who are like me, since my friends are busy and married,” she says. 
 
 The group, formed on March 26 last year, includes widows, unmarried, divorced and separated women; those who are staying with parents or only children. “That day when I advertised, I didn’t know what to expect. But about 40 women came to my house from different areas, and we decided what we wanted to do,” Basu adds. This Open Support Group, as Basu calls it, has members aged 32 to 80 years.
 
 When Sonia Yadav, 31, lost her parents about three years ago, she felt she had lost her support system. She came to know about the group through a friend. “I felt comfort when I came for my first group meeting. I work in the sales department and I sometimes come home late from work. I’ve observed how boys sometimes tend to take advantage of a woman seeking help. But with this group, I know I am safe. And now, I’m happy too,” she says.
 
 Dear Ones’ members not only share stories, but are on their way to making new stories. They go out on picnics, health programmes, and had even conducted a fashion show. Last year during Diwali, they took orders for Diwali snacks and got them made. It was on a no-loss-no-profit basis but it was an experience and a lesson in unity, says Basu.
 
 Neeta Waghmare, a housewife, speaks the best English in the group, admit several members. Last year in January, she lost her husband, and for about three months, she stopped reading newspapers, something she previously liked very much. But when she finally opened the paper, she saw the advertisement for the group. “It took me 2-3 meetings to recover. Now I want to give wings to my hobbies. I want to paint,” she says in impressive English, an influence of the group’s effort in mastering the language.
 
 
