It was a sight that the city has probably never witnessed before, taking station masters at the  ,   and Yeshwanthpur railway stations by surprise. Around 200 software professionals — all commuters on suburban trains — got off at these three stations on Thursday morning and got on to the tracks to ensure that their demands were heard and are, eventually, met. And what are they seeking? Not the addition of trains or tracks, but to better utilize the existing ones.

 For the last 3-4 months, these commuters — that largely comprises software professionals — have been seeking certain tweaks in the way the suburban trains function. For example, the Hosur-Yeshwanthpur Express is an important train as it passes through areas that house tech parks; it stops at Yeshwanthpur, Lottegollahalli, Hebbal, Banaswadi, Bellandur Road, Carmelaram,   (Electronics City), Anekal and Hosur. This train is usually 15-20 minutes late. “So,” explains   of  , “Either people end up wasting time at the station waiting for the train to come, or they miss it if, on a rare occasion, it actually comes on time.”
 
 
 
 Since November 2016, Suhas, a techie, has been spearheading a campaign to get more people to use the trains. Bangalore Times first wrote about it in December 2016. “Since then, the number of daily commuters has gone up from around 2,000 to close to 9,000. We have been waiting for these tweaks for a long time, by writing emails and meeting DRMs (Divisional Railway Managers), but no one is bothered about the issues we face. Many of us have been tweeting to (Railway Minister) Suresh Babu and I even wrote him a mail, for which I received a positive reply from him. We have even got (former railway minister) DV Sadananada Gowda involved. Since there has been no action taken, a group of us boarded the train on Thursday morning as usual, got off at Anekal, protested on the tracks, submitted a letter of demands to the station master and then boarded the same train again and repeated this when we reached Carmelaram and Yeshwanthpur stations,” says Suhas.
 
 
 
 Apart from the delays, the commuters say that changes in timetabling, slight realignments and better planning of stops can go a long way. Most techies work in three shifts — general, UK and US shifts, with the majority working in the general shift. “So, the frequency of the trains need to be changed — they have to be made to run according to the timings of the people who work in tech parks. Around 65%-70% people work in the general shift and around 20% in the UK shift. But the train that leaves Carmelaram, for instance, does so at 6.45 am and then again at 6.45 pm. No one wants to spend more than nine hours in office, so by changing the timing of the trains, you can get people who travel by road into trains and, in turn, decongest roads,” says Suhas. Similarly, even slight changes in the path and stops can fuel this change. For instance, the commuters want the Dharmapuri Express to not stop at Anekal and be pushed to Heelalige station instead. The reason? Since these are single tracks, trains usually line up one behind the other at Anekal, which leads to delays.
 Similarly, if the Hosur-Yeshwanthpur Express is allowed to deviate slightly to stop at   station from Bellandur Road and then go to Banaswadi, it will connect two   stations — Byappanahalli and Yeshwanthpur. That way, people across the city can use the Metro and then the suburban trains to reach tech parks.
 
 
 
 “These are the highest potential railway stations, but are underutilized. We already have these trains and stations, but we just need to make best use of them. We complain so much about the traffic situation in the city, but fail to capitalize on these trains that run on the tracks through the city. We are not asking for new trains; just tweak the way the existing ones function so that more people can use them,” says Suhas, signing off.
 
 
 
 
 
