AHMEDABAD : The engineering faculty is losing its sheen in Gujarat. In the past three years, the state has seen a drop of 22% in enrolments in various branches of engineering. The reasons are lack of   and lack of  .

 Figures released by   ( ) has a sorry picture to reveal for the placements in Gujarat. In 2014-15, while 47% of those who had passed engineering found the placements on their campuses across engineering colleges in the country, the figure for the same in Gujarat was only 26%. The remaining 74% engineering students in Gujarat had to fend for themselves. And even when they got jobs, the package was not more than Rs two lakh per annum.
 
  The fact that unemployment in the engineering faculty was increasing was also evident from the number of unemployed engineering graduates who had registered themselves in the employment exchanges in the state. Against the registration of 7,589 students in the year 2000 in the employment exchanges, the number of students increased to 13,418 in 2014, an increase of around 76% in 14 years.
 
 The AICTE data reveals that computer engineering in the country was one faculty which had around 88% placements. In Gujarat, too, it was the faculty which had the highest placement percentage next to pharmacy. The pharmacy placements in Gujarat were around 40%, while the same in computer science were 38%.
 
 Interestingly, Gujarat is known for its construction and pharma industry, but the campus placements in these two sectors were also much below the national average. While 63.25% students found the placements on an average in the country, this number was around 40% in Gujarat.
 
 Government colleges have failed to aggressively take up the campus placements. In Gujarat, for example, in the mechanical stream only 9.45% of the students found campus placements, while it was over 27% in self-financed colleges. However, the percentage of students who had passed from the government engineering colleges was much higher than those from the self-financed colleges.
 
 Rajiv Vastupal, chairman of Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry, Gujarat chapter, said: “Gujarat students are weak in English language and hence, when it comes to communication they fail to put their point across. In engineering, it is all about presentation which requires good English skills. This, I feel, could be the main reason why industries are not eager to go in for the campus placements.”
 
