Mangaluru: The situation in the district jail here in the city is no different than what is going on in Parappana Agrahara Jail in Bengaluru.

 Even as the issue of special treatment being given to influential prisoners in Bengaluru jail is being debated hotly, the authorities of Dakshina Kannada seemed to be in no mood to stop allowing things inside the prison much against the rules prescribed by the jail manual.  , cigarettes and tobacco packets are being taken inside the jail with impunity. 
 
 When this reporter visited the district jail premises on Tuesday evening between 4.30pm and 5.30pm, which is a visiting hour, the visitors were seen carrying all sorts of food items. Interestingly, each visitor was carrying food items in huge quantities which can be served to at least four to five people. 
 
 One person had come with pundi (rice dumpligs), parottas and chicken sukka. Another person had come with mutton dry, parotta, dosa, fish fry and rasam. Three youths carried a bag containing several kilograms of potato, tomato, cabbage, onion, beans, cucumber and huge amount of spices and masalas inside the jail. However, one thing that was common among all the visitors was that each one of them was carrying packets of cigarettes and other tobacco products. The guards present at the gates allowed these items only after a thorough inspection.
 
 A guard, who was present at the jail entrance, pointed out that supply of outside food and number of visitors has increased substantially after the Bantwal communal incidents.
 
 “No food items can be taken inside the jail premises as per the prison manual, and tobacco, alcohol and cigarettes are a big no no,” says S P Chengappa, senior advocate and president of Mangaluru Bar Association. 
 
 He adds that certain foods can be served to a convict or undertrial only if the court permits it on the recommendation of the doctors. He added that officials in the district jail have not learnt a lesson even after several untoward incidents including murders took place. “The situation inside the jail has gone out of control. Prisoners possess mobile phones and are in constant touch with the outside world,” he added.
 
 A retired jail official, who served in various capacities in Mysuru and Bengaluru jails, pointed out that ganja smuggling was rampant inside the jail and no officer could stop it till date.
 
 When TOI contacted Vijay R, in-charge jail superintendent of the district jail and drew his attention towards food and tobacco products being taken into the jail, he remained tight-lipped. “We are trying to curb tobacco supply inside jail in a phased manner,” he said. 
 
 Currently, the district jail houses over 400 persons including a dozen female undertrials as against its capacity of 210. There are many factions among the prisoners and they often clash with each other.
 
 
