CHENNAI: The mass rubella-measles vaccination drive targeting 1.8 crore children across the state was to be completed in one month. But health department officials say they have fallen behind schedule as thousands of parents have refused to allow their children to be administered the vaccine. Officials blame "ill-informed" activists who they say have been creating fear among the people through media and social media that many of the vaccines are needless and that they destroy the immune system and cause more diseases.

 Officials at the directorate of public health have countered such activists — some of whom include doctors — with threats to file complaints against them for spreading rumours. Officials have also approached the medical council with complaints against a few doctors and the child rights commission against at least four other persons for spreading rumours.
 
 Activists, however, say science is on their side and argue that there is not enough justification for a mass drive of the sort being attempted. Kalpakkam-based doctor-turned-activist V Pugazhenthi has been a frequent guest on television shows in which he campaigns against the vaccination. "Published studies including those in the British Medical Journal say that mass vaccination is used only when 5% of the population is affected and at least 1% is dead. Besides, we are vaccinating children up to 15 years whereas the vaccine is recommended only for children below six. Even independent studies recommending mass vaccinations have prescribed only rubella vaccine for adolescent girls. The safety and efficacy of these vaccines are not even tested on children above five years," he says.
 
 "You can’t cherry-pick facts from medical journals. The article in the said medical journal talks about flu vaccination. But the   vaccine is manufactured by an Indian company and has been approved for use by Indian drug authorities," says Erode-based paediatrician Dr A Arunkumar, countering Dr Pugazhenthi’s views. "When we start the programme without vaccinating older children, we will push the risk of rubella to older age groups." 
 
 The current drive aims at administering measles-rubella shots to children between 9 months and 15 years at schools and health centres. Rubella, also known as German measles, is an airborne viral infection common in children where complications or death is rare. However, if a pregnant woman is infected with rubella, she may give birth to a child with deformities of the heart, brain and eyes due to congenital rubella syndrome.
 
 The union health ministry estimates that more than 50,000 children are born with congenital rubella every year. "As of now we know that nearly 10% of all birth defects are because of congenital rubella," says Dr Arunkumar.
 
 In 2006, a community-based study in five district of TN (published in Indian Journal of Medical Research) reported that 82.2% of children in 1-5 years age group weren’t infected with rubella. But among girls in the 11-16 age group 86% children had developed the infection. The study concluded that a large percentage was susceptible to rubella and that there was a risk of congenital rubella syndrome. "There is a need to implement routine measles, mumps, rubella (MMR) immunization programme for children under five and mass scale one-time immunization with monovalent rubella vaccine for adolescent girls," says study’s author Ramamurty N of the department of virology at the  .
 
 Dr Pugazhenthi says the state should have introduced the vaccine just for adolescent girls. Dr Jacob M Puliyel, who is a member of the committee set up by the   on Immunization (NTAGI) to examine the death of children after pentavalent vaccine shots, says the infection is harmless in children and gives them immunity. "If 20% of adolescent girls who are not infected are vulnerable to the virus during the first three months of pregnancy, we should administer the vaccine at the adolescent stage. Studies have shown vaccinating newborns increases age of congenital rubella," he said.
 
 But Dr K Kolandaisamy, the director of public health, argues that most vaccines are given not because there is an outbreak, but because there is a threat. The results of the state immunization programme, where 11.5 lakh children are vaccinated every year, have been quite successful, he said. "We have eliminated polio, there are no deaths due to whooping cough or diphtheria. The incidence of deaths due to tetanus and measles is low. We have a lesson to learn from Mallapuram in Kerala, where there is an outbreak of diphtheria after scores of people boycotted the immunisation drive," he adds.
 
