LUCKNOW: Gomti Barrage will remain closed for public use or another three months because of heavy damage caused to the road during construction of the   below the bridge. The contractor had pushed huge concrete boxes into the soil on Gomti banks to cut the earth horizontally and make way for intercepting drains.

 While pushing the boxes forward, the road’s soil started caving in and a huge crater was formed on the   of Gomti Barrage near   crossing. The road also started showing deep cracks as a result of heavy construction below the bridge. To prevent further damage, state government sent a special team comprising principal secretary, engineer-in-chief, chief engineer etc of the irrigation department to the site on Monday to carry inspection. 
 
 The team found that while digging earth, contractor has also caused damage to Gomti Barrage approach road and that its repair would take about 3 months’ time. Engineer-in-chief, irrigation department, PK Singh said, “The contractor used push box technology to do construction faster but since the bank’s soil is lose, it gave in to the heavy thrusting and earth started caving in from side of Gomti Barrage. We have asked the contractor to give us an alternative plan of action and also repair road within deadline.”
 
 Officials admitted that the riverfront construction and Barrage Road’s repair would be completed by April 2017. This road was closed almost a month back when road showed signs of caving in after the bank’s soil was cut. The damage was so severe that even parts of irrigation department office on Gomti’s bank caved in too. Meanwhile, public is being asked to use 1090 crossing to move to and from Dalibagh to commute between Samta Mulak crossing to Dalibagh and   crossing. 
 
 Lucknow division executive engineer Surendra Kumar told TOI it is given that a contractor should not damage any government property while carrying on construction. “Since he has damaged the road already, he would be liable to reconstruct it too,” he said. 
 
 Contractor Vivek Chopra said because of an 11 metre deep boulder wall below approach road, he couldn’t get a proper angle to push the boxes inside the soil and since the soil was lose, the thrusting of boxes led to earth caving in from sides. He said he would be able to complete construction and repair road by March 15. 
 
 Info-Box
 
 ‘Contractor at fault’: Irrigation department officials said the contractor could have used other simpler techniques like cutting and opening earth to lay intercepting drains, because the push box technology has caused heavy cracks on the sides. 
 
