MUMBAI: The   ( ) is ready to roll out the new Invitation To Tender (ITT) for the next IPL rights cycle of five years starting 2018. The tender will be available at the Board's headquarters starting Friday 10am for interested parties to collect upon a payment of Rs 6.8 lakh.

 The ITT being rolled out is for a rights cycle of five years as against the previous ITT -the bidding for which was cancelled in October 2016 -which was brought out for a 10-year rights cycle. This was first reported by TOI on April 13 this year.
 
 The ITT being rolled out on Friday invites bids for subcontinent television rights package, subcontinent digital rights package and the Rest of the World (ROW) media rights package. In the earlier ITT, BCCI had divided the rights into three separate buckets. The Indian sub-continent television rights on offer were for 10 IPL seasons (2018-2027); while India digital rights and rest of the media rights for 5 IPL seasons each (between 2018-2022).
 
 The new ITT - which calls for separate bids for overseas rights, TV and digital - has been segregated into five territories instead of six mentioned in the previous ITT. The sub-Saharan market that had been opened up previously as a separate territory will now be clubbed along with the global rights.
 
 While agencies will not be allowed to bid for the subcontinent rights, they can participate in the bidding for the Rest of the World (ROW) media rights package. August 5 is the last date to seek clarifications on the ITT while August 17 is the deadline to buy the ITT.
 
 The previous media rights deal for IPL was originally bagged by the   (WSG) in 2008 for 10 years at US$918m, following which the deal was renewed with   -  , back then - the following year for a total of US$1.63b for the next nine years.
 
 TOI had reported last year that e-commerce giant Amazon had picked up the tender for the digital rights of the T20 league, which took the cricket industry by surprise. Going forward, the BCCI expects more such big names to come on board. Given Chinese mobile-maker Vivo's recent bid of Rs2190 crore to retain the title rights, market experts believe the IPL media rights could well hit the roof by the time submissions take place on August 28.
 
 In its July 11 meeting, the   had evaluated the ITT and eventually decided that the existing process - of submitting closed bids - continues to be the best approach going forward, both in terms of absolute transparency and a free and fair price discovery. This was after TOI had reported that BJP leader   had written to the Justice RM Lodha Committee asking that -given the scale of the bidding process -an e-auction process be called for. Swamy had underlined that such a process would be in line with government's practice in issuing tenders. The matter is still pending in the Supreme Court for hearing, even as the BCCI strongly believes that an e-auction will be detrimental to the league's financial prospects simply because it would have an effect on the overall value that the property can generate through the existing process.
 
  (SPN), the existing media rights holder, is expected to face tough competition from a sub-continent and a global broadcast perspective from Star India, who hold the rights for Indian cricket and have been eyeing the high-profile T20 league keenly.
 
