The monsoon holds a special place in the hearts of most, despite the inconveniences it poses for commuters in the city and the destruction it often causes in the rural and hilly areas. It kindles creativity in photographers, filmmakers and writers. But it has an equally profound impact on ordinary people though they may not give expression to their thoughts. For some, it brings back childhood food cravings while for others, it is a time to sit down with a book. We talk to a few people to find out how they make the best out of the season. 

 
 
 
 
 
 I love the kind of mazha without lightning and thunder. When you see the rain drops fall on your window panes, it looks like they are racing with each other. I enjoy that scene. During my childhood, my cousins and I used to name each drop and bet on who will win the race. The rain instills nostalgia and makes us feel like a kid all over again. Another thing I do is take a walk in the rain, of course under an umbrella, to have ice cream. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Getting drenched in the rains is in itself ecstatic, and coupling it with an ice cream always feels good. Showers give an instant high. I remember how my friends and I used to play football, and it used to be so much fun. Passing the ball amid water and intermittently landing on your back were all hilarious. Now that I am away from my home state, monsoons are a rarity at this time. However, when it does, I make sure to throw away my rain coat and umbrella to get myself the most wonderful shower ever.
 
 
 
 
 
 Rain is the much awaited reward that nature bestows on thirsty earth and its inhabitants. It always feels as though your patience has finally borne results. Everything about it is beautiful — the smell of the soil, the piercing rain drops, the chai and the pakoda, snuggling inside the bedsheet…
 Of course, as soon as it drizzles I go out to play with my kid.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Merely looking at the beautiful sight of water pouring out of the sky will give a sudden rush of memories of how we used to get drenched as kids. The evergreen school days come alive in the mind’s eye and the thoughts of how one deliberately kept aside the umbrella to experience the feeling of getting wet in the rain.
 At least once during every monsoon, I go out and experience the surreal feeling. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Monsoon for me is the ideal time for munching on masala cashews with a good cup of chai, while sitting on the portico and reading a novel. And, if there is a light melody from A R Rahman being played in the background, then there’s no better way to celebrate the joyous season. My wife even now makes paper boats and sets them on a sail in the water. Seeing them reach their destination is a treat for both of us. I think, there is no particular age to enjoy rains, it brings back the child in us. 
 
 
 
 
 
