Nagpur: On Saturday, when gutter water flowed through the drinking pipelines in Lumbini Nagar slums and part of Mecosabagh Christian Colony in north Nagpur, very few were shocked. The dark-yellow water emenating a strong stench was proof of something which the residents had been suspecting for long that somewhere gutter water has been seeping into the water pipelines. Though the problem was noticed four days ago, Orange City Water (OCW) engineers are still struggling to identify the source of contamination, forcing many residents to use well water instead.  Ratnamala Bagde, resident of Lumbini Nagar said, “We are using boring water from well for our daily purposes because the tap water is contaminated and of yellowish color. We try to wait for clean water but even after wastage of water for one hour, the water we get stinks really bad. We are afraid to give this water to our children but we don’t have any choice.” Harish Dhabarde, a resident said, “I have been noticing the foul smell for over two weeks and now my wife has fallen ill. She had a serious bout of vomiting and diarreha because of this contaminated water. The water used to look transparent but has a smell. Only in the last few days it has turned hazy and at times, completely yellow.”  Another resident Vaishali Sahare said, “The stink coming from the water is so bad that nobody can even smell it and they want us to drink that. In our area, there is a big water crisis from last three years and no action is been taken by civic authorities. So, we have use that water as there is no other option for us. We are not asking for continuous water supply but water we receive must be clean and must help us to fulfill our needs.”  Bharat Dhonge, another resident said, authorities try to shift the blame on them. “NMC tell us to clean our water tanks and pour medicine in it. I have cleaned it many times but no change. If the whole water supply is contaminated then how will cleaning the tank help?” asked Dhonge. Jyoti Meshram, a resident said, “It doesn’t matter how many time we try to clean it is still bad for our health. We cannot spend our whole day cleaning the water and nobody listens to us.” Sachin Dravekar, spokesperson for OCW, said their team is working to solve the problem. “The water in that particular section does seem to be contaminated and has foul smell. Our engineers are working to find the source and in the meantime we have undertaken flushing operation as well as cleaning of the end-plate. In the meantime, we are ensuring supply of tankers wherever required” said Dravekar. Harish Raut, assistant municipal commissioner (Mangalwari Zone) said, “We had not recieved any complaint from the area, at least not directly. But now I will definitely look into the issue tommorrow itself.”