HYDERABAD: Experts blame the sudden spurt, as well as annual recurrence, of swine flu ( ) cases on the lack of 'vaccine policy' in the country. They say Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are particularly vulnerable because of huge floating foreign population and lack of adequate containment measures in place.

 The word of caution comes as experts highlight the threat of 'reassortment` of influenza viruses, which can lead to emergence of new strains. In another possibility, experts warn of the coexistence of swine flu and bird flu viruses that would make for a deadly concoction.
 
 Even as the   has warned of pos sible human cases of bird flu and spurt in swine flu incidents this season, AP and Telangana governments have not taken strong scientific measures on the ground to contain the entry of bird flu from neighbouring states. There is no border surveillance. Neither is there a proper watch on migratory and wild birds that flock water bodies. Experts call for strong surveillance measures in AP and Telangana, which have a huge   and floating foreign population, as the   this month reported a `novel reassortant' influenza A (H1N2) virus that did not exist in humans previously. The new strain is a “triple reassortant“ containing gene segments from subtypes H1N2 (hemagglutinin), H3N2 (neuraminidase), and pandemic H1N1(remaining genes).
 
 “There is a possibility that the animal adapted influenza viruses undergo genetic rearrangements and select for traits that favour adaptation to new hosts. This can provide accelerated transmission potentials,“ explains Dr Niyaz Ahmed, veterinary expert and senior director at the International Centre for  , Bangladesh, and research professor at the UoH. He says, “The basic backbone of all influenza viruses is very similar. So it is possible that quasi-species and intermediate forms could be found which mimic characteristics of both the viruses.“ Ahmed points out that only one aggressive type may out survive other tyoes in a given host population. “In this light, mixed infections are less tenable,“ he adds.
 
 Dr Kapil Maithal, V-P and head of research and development, Indian Immunologicals Limited, Hyderabad, says, “as we do not have a vaccine policy against it (swine flu), although it is recommended by WHO as an annual vaccination, cases are being reported now, and every year in our country .“ He says, “Usually December-February is when swine flu cases are reported as the cold is favourable for the virus.“ Referring to bird flu, Maithal says,“In case it spreads to humans, considering that there is no vaccine, it can lead to a severe pandemic in India."
 
