BATHINDA: Alarmed over the sensational   in November last year, where in five armed men helped   (KLF) chief Harminder Mintoo and four other inmates escape, the jails department has set up 10 high security zones in central jails in Punjab to house notorious gangsters.

 The department has also begun the process of installing 4G-enabled   with the latest technology to stop misuse of mobile phones by inmates.
 
 Additional director general of police (prisons)   on Tuesday said, “Nearly 200 notorious gangsters have been kept in these high security zones in nine central jails and the Nabha high security jail. The jails department has shortlisted 400 more gangsters and the state police have been asked to ascertain their antecedents and prepare a list as per the cases in order to put more hardcore criminals under strict vigilance and keep a tab on their movements inside the jails.”
 
 ADGP Chaudhary also said the jails department and state police were mapping gangsters to know their groups. “There are nearly 10 groups of gangsters who are active and we intend to keep members of respective groups away from each other to avoid any ugly and violent incidents,” he said.
 
 Talking to newspersons in Bathinda, the ADGP admitted that in the past, complaints of some gangsters using mobile phones and intoxicants inside the jails had come to the fore and strict measures were being taken to stop such illegal practices. He said the process to install jammers would be completed in a month.
 
 Chaudhary said the jail authorities are getting complaints of some inmates getting depressed and facing difficulties in getting prompt   in case of emergency. He said, “The jails department has sent a requisition to the state government for recruitment of 20 medical officers, including psychiatrists, in jails.”
 
 He further said the jails in the state had a capacity of housing 22,000 inmates. Chaudhary said, “Almost all jails have been packed to capacity, but we are facing acute staff shortage which is why we have asked the state government to recruit 1,000 personnel to keep a tab on inmates in effective manner.”
 
