HUBBALLI: Although the   (HUDA) wasted little time to rectify its mistake after having neglected to renew its bandwidth on its website - www.hduda.org - after the comprehensive development project (CDP) was uploaded, citizens are now raising objections to some of the proposals made in the CDP (TOI had approached HUDA for a reaction to the website's bandwidth problem). 

 Engineers, social activists and citizens have drawn HUDA's attention to some of the problems in the CDP, but are yet to receive a response. Prof   told TOI that the map uploaded on the website was not clear about several issues. "For instance, the BRTS-44m layer is shown to be running all the way from NWKRTC Bus Stand, Hubballi to UAS, Dharwad. This is different from the current BRTS route, which is 44m wide from   to  , and 35m wide from Naveen Hotel to Hosur Cross in Hubballi, and from Gandhinagar to Jubilee Circle in Dharwad," he added.
 
 He pointed out that an explanation had not been offered for this change. "Or is HUDA proposing to widen these stretches later? Has a survey been done about extending the BRTS from Jubilee Circle to UAS? Will the road-widening process happen without felling of trees?" Hangal asked.
 
 Highlighting the need for HUDA to indicate the roads earmarked for widening, Hangal added, "Is this information available on the map? If so, they should provide instructions on how to read it. Citizens can then give their feedback. We also need clarity on whether there is a proposal to change the single lane Dharwad-Hubballi railway line to two or more lanes."
 
  Sunil Nalavade, a citizen, urged HUDA to upload zone or ward-wise maps. "This way, citizens can review those areas on the map they are familiar with. The size of the uploaded file is 19MB, and it takes us a lot of time to go through the same on the net," he said. 
 
 Santosh Nargund, a civil engineer, said that the CDP needed to be accompanied with an explanation. "It's essential for the authorities to share the rationale behind the plans. A detailed document that explains the various assumptions, needs and provisions must be provided along with the CDP. HUDA has to explain how the plan was prepared. Otherwise, it just becomes another bureaucratic exercise," Nargund said.
 
  HUDA commissioner Ningappa Kummannanavar, however, said that the uploaded CDP was citizen-friendly. When queried about the difficulties faced by citizens in opening and reviewing the document online, he said that one must contact town planning member Vivek Karekar. However, Karekar did not respond to queries posed to him via Telegram. Both Karekar and Kummannanavar have not responded to questions raised by citizens on the Telegram Group 'Citizens Smart City HDMC'. 
 
