PUDUCHERRY: The state planning board has recommended an outlay of Rs 6,945 crore for the   2017-18 for the   of Puducherry. 

 The board, which convened under chairpersonship of lt governor   in the presence of chief minister   at the chief secretariat on April 29, finalised and recommended the outlay after detailed discussion. The board will submit the annual   to the Union government for approval and will introduce the plan in the legislative assembly.
 
 The board also decided to approach the Union finance and home ministries seeking enhanced normal central assistance to implement welfare measures and infrastructure projects in Puducherry and also to release the non-plan gap grants to implement the 7th central pay commission. The board suggested a roadmap to raise the Union territory’s own resources by widening its tax net, improving collection efficiency and levy user charges and fees among others to overcome the financial crunch.
 
 The board directed the departments to prioritise and rationalise expenses, review schemes and prune expenditure. It also directed the departments to tap the funds under the centrally-sponsored schemes to supplement the resources of the state.
 
 The board directed the public sector undertakings and other entities to restructure and revive to augment their own resources and operate on professional lines. It stressed the necessity of controlling expenses and improving the quality of spending. It decided to hold periodic monthly, bimonthly and quarterly review to take stock of the performance and progress.
 
 Bedi in a statement urged the government to limit the expenses within the budget plan approved by the board. “We have to pay a heavy interest and loan repayment of Rs 1,216 crore, which is almost 17% of our entire budget. Hence scope for going for more borrowing is not an option as it leaves our children in debt. We must do our maximum to use funds under centrally-sponsored schemes to fund our projects. The funds have been underutilised so far,” she said.
 
 She said of the proposed draft plan of Rs 6,945 crore, only Rs 1,454 crore can be utilised for projects as the rest is all committed expenses such as salaries, pensions, power expenses, interest payments to drive home the point that funds for new projects cannot be sought if they were not included in the budget.
 
 She urged to evolve detailed project reports to get the funds from Union government. “Right now we are surrendering funds because of ignorance or lack of interest or  ,” she pointed out.
 
