PILIBHIT: After the matter of lakhs of parents buying and sending fake forms to the Centre to avail a   scheme of the   scheme was reported, the UP government has started steps to crack down on the con-men believed to be behind the racket.   Renuka Kumar has written to district magistrate, directing the administration and the police to take stringent action against the guilty. District administrations are now planning to invoke a new act of the state government, under which the guilty parties could face up to 10 years’ imprisonment.
 
  As reported by TOI, tens of thousands of the forms have been bought, filled up and sent by the parents of girls from virtually every district in the state. The forms claim that the parents will be eligible to get Rs 2 lakh in their bank accounts from the Centre when their daughter turns 18.
  
  This has created a deluge in the number of forms being posted to the Union ministry of women and child development. For instance, according to the officiating district postmaster of Pilibhit, more than 5,000 of the forms are being sent from the head post office at the district headquarters every day.
  
  After the Union ministry on February 16 clarified that there was no such cash benefit system under the scheme, post offices across the state have begun stopping dispatch of the fake application forms to the ministry, with effect from February 23, following orders from the respective district administrations.
  
  Local intelligence units have been activated by district administrations to locate the persons involved in the racket. “The state government had introduced a new act, The Uttar Pradesh Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Act, in February this year, under which those who defraud people can be sentenced to a prison term of 10 years. The act will be invoked against the con-men responsible for this Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao cash benefit racket,” said Pilibhit DM Masoom Ali Sarvar.
  
  “In this case, the sellers of the forms can’t be considered as fraudsters. They sell all forms of government schemes over the counters. The act of selling the forms alone does not prove their mala fide intentions,” the DM added.
  
  Administration officials also pointed out that the fake form required such details as the applicant’s bank account number, IFS code and Aadhaar card number, all of which could be used to siphon money from bank accounts.
  
  “Those who have already mailed the fake forms should keep an eye on their bank accounts in case of any suspicious transactions,” the DM added.
