KOLKATA: A second   offering gold loans -this time in the heart of city -has set off the alarm among the security establishment. “We work in tandem with banking institutions. We need to immediately open up a working model with these institutions that often reserve gold worth crores. In the cities that failed to put in a joint mechanism, a series of strikes on them has followed,“ said a top officer at Lalbazar's anti-robbery section.

 To be fair, there were major changes immediately after the   at   in December last year where robbers looted gold worth around Rs 8.6 crore. While senior and retired policemen were entrusted with the job of securing offices, armed personnel were recruited on an urgent basis.
 
 According to Manappuram Finan ce officials, armed men have now been recruited at most of their offices -most notably at Bowbazar and Garia.“After the incident in December, we have ensured now guards are posted both inside and outside our office. It was an old practice but is followed strictly now. While CCTVs are being monitored, we are also ensuring every person entering our office goes through the doorframe metal detector,“ said an employee at their BB Ganguly Street office. Officials at Muthoot Finance said there is now a blueprint readied by their cen tral office to ensure vital security measures are in place in all their offices.
 
 Kolkata Police and CID sources, though, say there is a lot more needed to be done. “We have been harping on the need for these firms to try and monitor the entry of customers. But most importantly , we want these firms to co-ordinate with the local police and keep them updated about gold movement and the rough estimate of gold being stocked in their reserves. The same exercise in Delhi has helped cut down on such crimes,“ said a CID official. Kolkata cops said it was important these finance firm officers recruit employees only after proper verifications.
 
 “We will soon undertake a safety and security awareness campaign -just like the ones we had held with the banks -for the branch managers of such institutions to brief them about the safety measures,“ said a top IPS officer at Lalbazar.
 
