CHANDIGARH: Three youngsters from the Tricity are all set to represent Chandigarh in the "Shape North America Summit 2017" to learn how technologies used abroad can be implemented in Chandigarh to make it smarter.

 Besides representing the city on the international platform, the youngsters will also deliver dialogues on issues related to pluralism, clean and green, innovation and artificial intelligence.
 
 The summit, jointly organized by Global Shapers Ottawa and Toronto hub, is a 5-day event which will start from July 12. It will focus on bringing together people of World Economic Forum Global Shapers from around the world.
 
 The event will aim at connecting representatives from various hubs of Global Shapers from around the world with tangible networks, capital, and resources necessary to magnify the impact in four policy priorities: North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Women in Business, Innovation and Artificial Intelligence and Clean Growth.
 
 More than 20 countries will participate in the conference in which youngsters from the Tricity, Amanveer Singh, Simarpreet Singh and Pritika Mehta will represent their club, the Global Shapers  . 
 
 Amanveer Singh, vice-curator, Chandigarh Hub said through this seminar, he is looking forward to meet Navdeep Bhains, Canada's minister of innovation, science and economic development to discuss advanced scientific policies around the world. On his return, he said, he will try using new methods in advancement of the education system of the city. He also said they will educate youngsters through workshops held every month.
 
 Pritika Mehta said she will talk about artificial intelligence. Understanding the importance of technology in the 20th century, Pritika said in India, artificial intelligence is an alien concept. But in order to meet international standards, she said it is important to teach youths about the new techniques.
 
 Chandigarh will organize its second Ted Talk in January, 2018. Simarpreet, is the curator of Tedx Chandigarh. Other speakers present in the event will be  , minister of justice and attorney general of Ontario and head of North America Paul Smyke.
 
