PATNA: Celebrities like playback singers Sunidhi Chauhan, Malini Awasthi, Akriti Kakkar and Begum Parveen Sultana are among the acclaimed artistes who will perform during the three-day   celebrations, beginning March 22. 

 Different government departments and agencies will put up stalls and pavilions at   for the grand celebrations, which will include laser shows. The state government is also at work to put up a grand show on the theme of ‘Prohibition in Bihar’. 
 
 Preparations are afoot to create at least 60 stalls apart from the main stage, where events like music and dance shows will be held, at Gandhi Maidan. The stalls will be allotted to tourism, education, health and rural development departments, among others. The departments will showcase at the stalls their achievements and details of their ambitious projects.
 
 Besides Gandhi Maidan, the S K Memorial Hall will also host various activities, including a Hasya Kavi Sammelan, that have been planned as part of the celebrations. “Fifty-six of the stalls at Gandhi Maidan have already been booked by different government departments,” said Sanjay Singh, director at the Bihar Education Project which is the nodal agency for the celebrations.
 
 The Bihar Diwas celebrations are being organised since 2012 at CM Nitish Kumar’s behest. Bihar was carved out of undivided Bengal as a separate state in 1912. Prior to that, Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Orissa were part of Bengal province during the colonial days.
 
 Foodies visiting Gandhi Maidan to witness the celebrations can also pamper their taste buds with delicacies from the state and across the country. For, the Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation will set up at the venue a food court wherein several food outlets can open their stalls.
 
 Security measures will be beefed up for the celebrations. At a meeting on Friday evening to review the ongoing preparations, Patna DM   and other officials decided that watchtowers would be erected at different locations at Gandhi Maidan to keep a tab on the movement of people. Close-circuit television cameras will also be installed.
 
 March 22: Sunidhi Chauhan at Gandhi Maidan, Begum Parveen Sultana at S K memorial Hall
 
 March 23: Malini Awasthi at Gandhi Maidan, Rajan-Sajan Mishra at S K Memorial Hall
 
 March 24: Akriti Kakkar at Gandhi Maidan, Hasya Kavi Sammelan at S K Memorial Hall
 
 
