MUMBAI: Nearly 15,000 commuters lodged complaints against errant   --mostly for refusals - in five years, statistics released by the transport department shows.

 Interestingly, there is a dip in the number of complaints since April 2015.   say it coincides with many switching to aggregators cabs like Ola or Uber, especially for airport pick-up and drop. “When there is an alternative, why file a complaint?
 
 I prefer booking an Uber or Ola which comes to my doorstep and also offers rides at affordable fares (and discounts),“ said Reema Dey, a regular commuter from the eastern suburbs.
 
 Many citizens said it was difficult to get through the RTO's toll-free complaint number180022-0110. To encourage more citizens to lodge complaints, the   this week released two new dedicated helplines for the island city. “Those facing problems from errant cabbies in the island city can call up on the new complaint numbers -022-2353432022,“ said regional transport officer Govind Saindane. He appealed to citizens to inform the RTO about cases of refusals, rude behaviour by dri vers or excess fares and promised prompt action.
 
 Sources said that in five years, the three RTOs -island city, eastern and western suburbs --had taken action against at least 14,000 drivers by suspending their licences for 15 to 30 days.The fine collected in all cases was over Rs 20 lakh.
 
 Activist G R Vora said the suspension of licence or fine was not a deterrent for the driver.“The RTO should ensure that the driver is taken off roads for a longer period if found involved in any offence such as refusal or fleecing a commuter. Since he is aRTO-badge holder, it is his duty to ferry every passenger and charge as per the approved tariff,“ he said, adding that unless there was stringent punishment or hefty fines, it will not be easy to discipline the errant drivers.
 
 Afew years ago, the Andheri RTO had started confiscating meters of autorickshaws which were booked for “tampering“ or “demand for excess fares“. But the campaign fizzled out.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 Market economics often work better than state policies and regulatory mechanisms. There is alimit to how much and how often a commuter can complain. Change is inevitable--and rapid--when the citizen has a choice. When fines and suspensions don't work, it's time for the government to crack the whip on offending cabbies and auto drivers. Repeat offenders can even be permanently delicensed. At the same time, instead of ill-advised moves to impose language norms on drivers of public transport, the government can focus more on their training to enhance customer satisfaction and safety.
 
