NEW DELHI: A 47-year-old man, who owned a soft drinks shop in Mandoli near  , was shot by three   outside his house in   on Monday night. The trader’s wife and son were also injured while trying to save him from the criminals.

 Initial probe suggests that the incident was a robbery attempt gone awry as the victim, Mukesh  , was carrying Rs 25,000 in a bag. He had taken the bag from his son and tried to throw it over a wall into his house. However, police have not ruled out personal enmity for the murder.
 
 Around 10pm, Singhal was returning home from his shop with his son. When he reached his house in Ram Nagar, Singhal handed over the cash bag to his son Saurabh (17). While he was locking his scooter, the three men on a motorbike blocked their way and held Singhal at gunpoint.
 
 The men shot Singhal when he took the bag from Saurabh and tried to throw it over the wall into his house. The bag, however, fell on the road. Saurabh then started screaming for help. His mother, Sunita, heard him and picked up a floor wipe to confront the bikers, but they even shot at her. When Saurabh tried to intervene, the miscreants fired another bullet which grazed past his neck.
 
 Hearing the gunshots, locals gathered outside Singhal’s house. One of the bikers then picked up the bag and they sped away. They also fired two more rounds in the air to stop people from following them.
 
 The three were taken to GTB hospital where Singhal was declared dead on arrival. While Sunita was operated upon and kept under observation, Saurabh was discharged after treatment.
 
 The trader’s father, Ram Prasad, said locals initially thought it was fight between two people over parking their bikes. But when Sunita grabbed a wiper and ran outside, he realised his son was under attack. “As soon as she opened the door the men shot her on the waist and then fired a bullet at Saurabh. We suspect that it was a pre-planned murder,” he said.
 
 Family members said that Singhal usually returned with the sales proceeds to deposit in the bank the next morning. Cops suspect that the bikers had been trailing him for a few days. They were aware of the approach and escape routes if cornered by locals. The possibility of someone known to the family being involved in the crime has not been ruled out. Cops also suspect the hand of an inter-state gang.
 
 CCTV footage from the area shows the men fleeing the locality. A case of armed robbery and murder has been registered on the statement of Singhal’s younger son.
 
