The smooth election process on Tuesday was marred by thousands of complaints from citizens, who said they were turned away from polling booths as their names did not figure on the voter list.

 The worst affected were residents whose buildings are curidents whose buildings are currently under redevelopment. They complained that their names were missing though they have not made any attempt to get their names deleted. They claimed they had only temporarily shifted to newer areas for alternative accommodation.
 
 Delimitation has also added to the confusion. “People's voting booths have changed and this time many residents did not get their voting slips in advance. In fact, the final voter list was released to candidates only by 2pm the previous day and even after that it was updated several times,“ said   from the Diamond Garden Residents Forum in Chembur.
 
 At Sanjay Nagar, Dindoshi, an activist said the area had been divided into four wards, 40, 42, 43, 44, resulting in chaos. “I am sitting here with the list for ward 43 and people who are in other wards are asking where to go to vote,“ he said.
 
 Redevelopment projects stuck for years emerged as one of the main reasons. Officials said the names could have been removed because of the “cleaning up“ process in which those who haven't been voting were taken out of the list. “Many buildings are under reconstruction for over a decade. Since people are not staying, the electoral machinery seems to have deleted their names. Officials did not find people staying on the addresses they visited,“ said an election official.
 
 At Yari Road, Andheri, about 40% of the 160 members of Amrut Tara housing society returned disappointed. The seven buildings of the society have been demolished for redevelop ment and residents have temporarily relocated in the vicinity.“We enquired at the Children's Welfare School polling booth, but the officials just shrugged,“ said  , a society resident who could not vote.New Chandra, another redeveloped building near Veera Desai Road, did not see any resident's name on the list, said a member of that society.
 
 Sangita Kher, principal of N M School of Commerce, went around the polling booths in the same area, but her family's name was nowhere. She claimed residents of nearby buildings complained similarly.
 
 Krunal Goda from the Kandivli Ashok Nagar Residents' Association said since morning, many people found their names missing, like those from Jeevan Shraddha society, currently under redevelopment. “There was complete mismanagement and chaos when citi zens came to vote," he said.
 
 In Chembur's D K Sandu Marg, an entire redeveloped building fell off the Election Commission's radar. “We received complaints from at least twothree other such buildings where residents have not been able to vote,“ said Sharma of the Diamond Garden Residents Forum.
 
 At Vivekanand school in Nehru Nagar, Kurla (E), around 20% of the voters could not vote, said Vinaya Rane, who was hel ping voters find their booths.
 
 At Kannamwar Nagar, the turnout was surprisingly high in the morning, but nearly 20% returned due to names “missing“, said local activist and candidate  . The area has seen a spurt in redevelopment and a few locals said this could be one of the reasons. In some of the recently redeveloped buildings in MIG colony, Bandra (East), many residents faced asimilar problem.
 
