  : Taking lesson from last year's   that ranked the   among the dirtiest cities in the country, stakeholders have come together to present a   to a three-member   (QCI) team that is conducting the survey this year. 

 The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC), Jugsalai municipality and Jamshedpur Utilities and Services Company (Jusco), a private municipal arm for the urban area, have decided to put up an impressive picture in their respective command areas. 
 
 The two popular markets of Bistupur and Sakchi, that otherwise remained dirty, now appear to be clean as large number of sanitation workers are working round the clock to keep the area free of garbage. Besides, colony markets such as Kadma, Sonari, Sidhgora, Golmuri and Telco are also wearing a better look, barring few isolated locations where some garbage can be found. 
 
 The evaluation team, comprising senior assessor Yashvanth Kumar and two junior assessors Randhir Gupta and Pranav Nayak, visited over twenty places within the JNAC command area in the first few days. The team also inspected public toilets and designated garbage dumping sites. They clicked photographs of the aforesaid places and uploaded them on the QCI portal. 
 
 "The survey work in JNAC command area will conclude today and the team will move to MNAC on Tuesday for a three-day survey work and subsequently, Adityapur municipal council area will be assessed from January 17 to 19," a JNAC official said. 
 
 The team also visited Kherbani, which is the proposed site for building a solid waste management system, and enquired about its present status. 
 
 The MNAC has deployed over 50 garbage-lifting vehicles with global positioning system (GPS) gadgets to keep track of their movement.
 
 Surprisingly, the slum areas in Ramnagar, Laxminagar, Raghubarnagar, Bagunnagar, Ramjanamnagar, Chuna Bhatta, Kalyannagar have witnessed regular cleaning in the last fortnight. 
 
 "We should thank the survey team for camping in Jamshedpur, otherwise the slums in and around the city would hardly receive any attention of the municipal officials," 48-year-old Ganesh Mahato, a resident of Ram Nagar in Sonari, said.
 
 
