When   Abdelaty’s sister Shaima got in touch with him last October through snail mail, the letter was addressed to, ‘Dr Muffazal Lakdawala,  .’

 Fat, or rather the excess of it, is a touchy issue at the celebrity bariatric surgeon’s clinic: Patients in denial who end up in his hands only when hit by a medical emergency, as in the case of this young stand up comic who was brought to the hospital by his mother “as he was flatlining.” Yet others who come to him suicidal, beset by acute shame and anger over their weight.
 
 At 500 kilos, Eman Ahmed does not have the option of being suicidal. Her weight prevents her from even turning over. For nearly two decades the 36-year-old, reported to be the world’s heaviest woman, has been lying flat on her bed, her waking moments spent staring at the ceiling. Until this week, she could not even lift her hands. For Shaima, watching her sister live entombed in a room at their home in Alexandria, Egypt, was steadily becoming unbearable. Their modest means did not allow for much but Shaima’s determination led her to appeal to President Sisi last year, which drew media attention. A story on Eman by CNN Arabia caught the eye of a certain Dr Diaa in Saudi Arabia, who happened to know Muffazal Lakdawala. ‘Write to the doctor in Mumbai,’ Dr Diaa suggested to Eman’s sister.
 
 With that letter, a chance at life also unfolded for Eman.
 
 The operation though, if and when it happens, is fraught with risk. “At every 100 kilos the risks don’t just add up, they multiply,” Lakdawala accepts. Obesity is tracked through Body Mass Index. BMI between 27.5-37.5 is considered obese; higher than 37.5 is termed morbidly obese; anything above 60 is categorized as super obese. Eman’s BMI is 252.
 
 Most of her other readings too are offthe-chart, and until she loses over a hundred kilos he won’t operate. “My instruments will break if I try. At the present weight we can’t give her anesthesia.” But while he awaits genetic reports to determine whether Eman suffers from monogenic obesity — “If that’s the case certain drugs might work better than surgery”— there are small everyday changes that are improving her quality of life. “Already, she has lost about 35 kilos, she can now pass urine through a catheter as opposed to soiling her clothes, her body is softening, and she can even raise her arm a little. I deliberately salute her when I go to see her and she attempts to salute me back.” Something more ineffable, miraculous has also happened. Eman is now smiling, her spirit found again.
 
 Meanwhile, outside Saifee Hospital where she is admitted, Mumbai has embraced Eman with the enthusiasm it reserves for all curiosities. Newspapers have an Eman beat, Hrithik Roshan’s mother wants to donate funds for her treatment, and even   is keenly tracking her progress.
 
 For Dr Lakdawala, this interest and media frenzy is neither new nor unwelcome. In 2003, when he travelled to China to perform   on Asia’s heaviest man (285 kilos) such was the media frenzy that “there was press inside the OT! And this being China, one couldn’t even say much.” Rising obesity figures since has meant that Dr Lakdawala has performed bariatric surgery on 73 Indian patients who have weighed above 200 kilos. India now reports the third highest number of obese people after United States and China. While the US conducts about 200,000 bariatric surgeries each year (as compared to 8000 in the UK), India conducts approximately 1,50,000 surgeries each year according to data provided by the Obesity Surgery Society of India. There are 450 registered bariatric surgeons in India. Lakdawala, the most well-known among them, says he conducts “5-6 surgeries a day.”
 
 Like many other medical marvels, bariatric surgery was discovered almost by accident, and not too long ago. According to a report in the New York Times, the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass was meant as a cure for stomach ulcers. “It involved cutting out most of the stomach, leaving just a small pouch, and connecting part of the small intestine to the tiny stomach that remained. In 1966, when Dr. Edward Mason of the University of Iowa tried it on a very heavy woman, she lost weight. He began offering the procedure to very fat people for weight loss, but it did not catch on until the late 1990s, when surgeons discovered how to do it laparoscopically, making it much safer,” says the report. The other popular operation, the sleeve gastrectomy, was also discovered accidentally in 2000 during an operation on an extremely obese woman at Mount Sinai in New York.
 
 In India, the first bariatric surgery was done in Pune in 1999 by Dr Shrihari Dhorepatil. Muffazal Lakdawala was then a newly-minted laproscopic surgeon. Around that time Johnson and Johnson wanted to take doctors to the US to train in bariatric surgery. “But none of the top rung surgeons wanted to undergo that training. They were only invested in big surgeries, so then Johnson and Johnson lowered its sights to the next rung, and I got my chance.” In 2003 he was nominated as one of the six surgeons from India to the Thought Leaders Summit in Seoul, South Korea. Lakdawala, the youngest at the summit, subsequently underwent training in Seoul, at the Cleveland Clinic in the US, and at the Ghent Hospital in Belgium.
 
 But his most essential lesson came from India. He discovered most of his patients did not want it known that they had undergone bariatric surgery. “As a laproscopic surgeon I began doing single incision gastric sleeve surgeries. These were pretty much scarless.” Unlike mental or sexual health problems which can be addressed in relative privacy, obesity is a visible problem often carrying private shame. “It will happen that someone will undergo bariatric surgery and lose tonnes of weight but insist publicly that the weight loss has been the result of only dieting and vigorous exercising,” he grins. “And we play along.” Which is why the publicity around Eman’s case is welcome. He is also grateful to politician patients like Nitin Gadkari, Venkaiah Naidu or Vinod Tawade, who have openly discussed the benefits from bariatric surgery.
 
 While the weight loss results from bariatric surgery are pretty quick and impressive, maintaining that requires a lifelong regimen. Sometimes, his patients fall off the wagon. Azad Kavi, who plays the popular Dr Haathi in Taarak Mehta Ka Oolta Chashma was brought to Lakdawala after collapsing on the set. He was on the ventilator for over a week before the surgery could be performed. “From 258, he came down to 140 kilos. The diabetes disappeared, his mobility improved but he’s started gaining weight again because it’s impacting his popularity on the show. I am sure he’ll come back to me soon”
 
 Lakdawala credits his tenacity to his cricket-playing days. “I have imbibed that khadoos quality Mumbaiya cricketers have.” In Eman, he has found a patient who reflects that quality too. “She’s like a little sumo wrestler with a great spirit. It’s my belief as a doctor that a patient’s will to live makes it that much more difficult for God to take them away.”
 
 
