KOLKATA: The two houses on Brabourne Road — 42, Strand Road and 2, Raja Woodmunt Street — fell silent amid the hustle and bustle of Burrabazar and looked haunted on Thursday. KMRC, the implementing agency of East-West  , had vacated the buildings and shifted all the residents to a nearby hotel a day before.

 On Thursday, the entire area – the evacuated houses, space below and above the flyover — was put under round-the-clock   surveillance. The Afcons engineers were found busy taking periodic counts of different safety parameters, including soil settlement, tilting, subsidence, vibrations. If any of the parameters go beyond the permissible limits while the tunnel-boring machine (TBM) passes below Brabourne Road, immediate mitigation measures will be adopted. The TBM has already started boring and will be right below Brabourne Road flyover on Friday night.
 
 While the entire area has been kept under watch, the two buildings are high on the priority list. Apart from ensuring noone intrudes into these two buildings, the buildings are monitored so that any attempt of sabotage can be foiled. “These buildings are highly litigated. Some owners even want these buildings to be razed. Since the building is in our custody, we want to ensure its full security,” said an engineer.
 
 The Afcons engineers have carried out meticulous search in these two buildings to ensure that not a single person stayed inside. On Wednesday night, they evicted 18 Burrabazar porters who managed to sneak into the house to catch a nap. On Thursday, powerful search lights were installed inside the buildings and above the flyover.
 
 “We will monitor the vital parameters of these buildings and the flyover for next the one and a half months, long after the TBM passes this unsafe zone. Before the passage of TBM, it will be a hourly reading and at the time passage, the reading will be taken every 15 minutes. We will record slightest distress on the structure and keep taking mitigation measures till there is no more settlement of these buildings,” said an engineer.
 
 Apart from ensuring the stability of the unsafe buildings, great care is being taken to measure the structural strength of the flyover. Sophisticated meters have been installed on either side of each pier. “These meters are linked online with our server. So we are getting minute-by-minute reading of structural issues,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the evacuees of these two buildings, away in a hotel on M G Road, are unaware of the goings-on at their homes. “We really don’t know what is going on in our houses. We are confident that our houses are in safe hands. We are thankful to Afcons engineers, who did everything to ensure our comfortable stay in the hotel,” said Shreya Dubey, a resident of 42, Strand Road.
 
 
