CHANDIGARH: Haryana government has failed to shortlist even a single suitable candidate out of the total 33 applicants for the director-principal post of prestigious Motilal Nehru National   (MNSS) at Rai in Sonipat. The government has decided to re-advertise the post.

 K K Khandelwal, additional chief secretary of sports and youth affairs department, told TOI, “We haven’t found anyone fitting our advertised criteria. So we will soon re-advertise the post and we may have to re-frame the eligibility criteria.”
 
 The sports and youth affairs department had advertised the post on April 1 and had received 33 applications in response. Applicants also included retired officers of the Army as well as the Air Force. However, after scrutiny of their applications only 12 candidates were found worthy for an interview. The interview was conducted on June 24 by a committee headed by chief secretary  .
 
 Meanwhile, IGP Bharti Arora is at the helm of affairs as director-principal of the sports school since December 29, 2015. She is likely to continue on the post till the appointment of a new principal.
 
 The senior secondary co-educational sports school was established at Rai in 1973 to support students to excel in sports along with their academics. School’s campus is spread over 300 acres land and it has produced many national level players in various disciplines of sports in the past. Affiliated to the central board of secondary education, the sports school has infrastructure for athletics, swimming, gymnastics, tennis, basketball, volleyball, football, hockey, cricket, squash and equestrian.
 
 In the recent past, Rai sports school had been in limelight for all the wrong reasons where allegations were made against the school management for irregularities in purchase of sports items. The issue had even prompted war of words between the Haryana health, sports and youth affairs minister Anil Vij and the finance minister Captain  . After the finance department had carried out audit of the sports schools finding irregularities, Vij had moved a letter to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar seeking probe from a senior IAS officer and also stating "interference of unconcerned ministry be stopped immediately."
 
 Earlier the state government had on April 27 handed over probe into the issue to IAS officer  . But after Khemka sought special powers to summon witnesses to examine the case threadbare, the decision was changed and the probe was handed over to chief secretary D S Dhesi in May.
 
