BENGALURU: While it's never too late to decide your career, for students who have just finished class 10, the options seems to be increasing by the day. Usually, students joining classes 11 and 12 who choose   also opt for a commerce/arts subject to keep their options open. Schools and   in the city are offering interesting course combinations to take the burden off those pursuing science. 

 Maths being a tough subject for most, combinations like science (physics, chemistry, biology) and home science or electronics instead of biology are growing in demand this admission season.
 
 Science is the best bet for a confused student, says Jagannath G, who is enrolling his son in the science stream with computer science. “Aashrit isn’t able to decide on what next after schooling. I’m not forcing him to make a decision right now. Taking up science will buy him time to make a decision,” says Jagannath. 
 
 Navya Hegde, who completed her class 10, has decided to apply for the PCME (electronics) combination. One, because she wants to become an electronic engineer and also because she loves electronics. With the subject being available for her at the   levels itself, Navya will have a better idea about whether she cut out for the subject going forward. 
 
 “I still haven’t done much research in the field and about my career prospects. But for now I have this as my option. Only once I start learning the subject will I know about its positives and negatives,” said Navya.
 
 Since long, Mount Carmel PU College (PUC) has been offering home science instead of mathematics in one of the combinations in its science stream. The other three subjects being physics, chemistry and biology. 
 
 Delhi Public School, North (CBSE) on the other hand, although has physics, chemistry and maths as compulsory subjects in the science stream, the same can be matched with optional subjects such as economics, psychology, legal studies, fine arts or even a course on human rights and general studies.
 
 Said Manju Balasubramaniam, principal, DPS North: “Earlier, we’d offer these subjects only for commerce or arts streams, but with students showing more interest now, we decided to introduce these in the science stream too. Science students want to keep their options open while trying something they may be interested in.” 
 
 Pursuing science in senior secondary years (class 11 or PUC) can open doors to a much larger platter of options, believes 16-year-old Meghana Choudhari. “I can switch to commerce or even arts in my under-graduation. Pursuing another two years of science in PUC will allow me this luxury. If I like this, I can continue in the same field in future. Commerce and arts courses are more restrictive in that sense,” she added.
 
 
 
 
 In the ISC stream of  , students can mix and match all kinds of subjects. The subjects are divided in four groups and students need to select one subject from each to make a combination.
 
 If science isn’t for everybody, then there are options for commerce and arts students too. At St Joseph’s PU College, students can opt for computer science along with statistics, business studies and accountancy. On the other hand, MES PU College, Malleswaram, offers logic along with history, economics and sociology in the arts stream.
 
 Said Sharon Prithika, who’s awaiting her class 10 ICSE results: “I have chosen to pursue commerce because I want to do chartered accountancy. But the option of computers with commerce is a good one.” 
 
 At Bishop Cotton Boys’ School, one can choose from mathematics, business studies, bio technology, computer science or physical education to go along with the compulsory subjects – english, economics, accounts and commerce.
 
 Karen Vincent, another commerce aspirant, adds that students must utilize the two months they get after their exams to think about what they want to pursue. “If we don’t think it through, we end up making general choices during admissions. It’s nice to be able to chose a stream that I’m interested in independently.” 
 
 
