Yes, he finally said it. Almost! After years of ignoring gossip, homophobic Twitter trolling and mean jokes, (and dropping the odd hint himself),   finally addresses his sexuality ' in an almost coming-out.

  
    talking about sexuality during his adolescence in this excerpt from his upcoming book 'An Unsuitable Boy'.
 
  
  The director shares how he was traumatised and hurt by rumours about him and Shah Rukh.
 
  
  Karan's mother Hiroo Johar was in attendance at the AIB roast last year, where his sexuality was the butt of several jokes
 
  
  
 
 
 'What Karan Johar is rightly hinting at is the homophobia that exists, and one has to fight it every day. Homophobia exists because by the law of the land, we are made to look like criminals, and Section 377 empowers those who want to harass us. But the good thing is that when someone like Karan Johar speaks about it, he is also saying that everyone has to deal with it, and what is important is to not let your sexuality take over you. One has to work hard, continue with their lives and do well, and that is what matters.'
 
 
 
 
 'When a person of Karan's stature says he is scared of going to prison, that shows how marginalised the LGBTQ community in India is. The law itself doesn't protect them, which is against the constitution. When Karan Johar is scared, one can only imagine what people from the lower strata must face. When a significant section of a community ' or, for that matter, even a single person ' does not feel they are protected by the law, it is very sad. That being said, I believe this will encourage people to come out because they will see that a person of this stature has taken the courage to speak about their sexual orientation, despite knowing how people can react.'
 
 
 'One thing we all need to understand is that coming out is a voluntary and personal process. It's great that KJo has come out at his own pace now, where he feels that sense of security to be able to talk about these things. He's resisted pressure over the years from various people who've tried to grill him about it, like that awkward Simi Garewal interview where she tried to force the words out of him. He's tried over the years to incorporate these themes in his movies, like Bombay Talkies and Dostana. He's shown incredible bravery by what he's said.'
 
 
 'His sexuality is his business and we shouldn't have anything to do with it. The trolls shouldn't matter to him. This will definitely empower the community because he is at least talking about it. And I think the day he decides to come out, the number of trolls will be nothing compared to the encouragement he will get from the community and other people.'
 
 With inputs from Divya Kaushik, Kshriya Sharma, Abhimanyu Mathur, and Riya Sharma
 
