CHENNAI: At the   (SMRI) in  ,   and his team are working on protective gear for bull tamers who would take part in the next jallikattu season. Another group has decided to make a bowling machine that would cost lesser than those presently available.

 These are just one of the many areas in which students and faculty at the institute – among the handful in the country touching upon   – are conducting research. That’s because, as Sijin says, the field is ready for play, but there are hardly any players.
 
 “We started a six-month certification course because sports engineering is a field with a lot of scope but no engineers,” says Sijin, who co-founded SMRI last year.
 
 “The course is for engineering graduates interested in sports. We get people who have a background in some sport or the other,” he says.
 
 One of their students, Kundan Kumar Sinha, for instance, decided to enroll after he completed his degree in electronics and communication at Cochin University for Science and Technology. “I was a state level badminton player and figured sports engineering was a good way to combine my interest in sports with my area of study,” says Sinha. “All through my sporting career, what disappointed me was that though there is so much talent in our country, we fall behind because there is very little tech support. There are hardly any biomechanics labs or technical analytics. So I wanted to try my hand,” adds Sinha, who has just landed himself a job as a sports scientist.
 
 Sports engineering — a field that focuses on design and production of sports equipment and facilities, performance measurement, and biomechanics — overlaps other fields of science and engineering, such as mathematics, physics, and civil, mechanical and electrical engineering.
 
 In India, though more courses are being offered in sports management and sports sciences, there is a vacuum in engineering, says Dr Pintu Modak, head of physical education at Birla Institute of Technology & Science which is hosting an international conference on sports engineering this October. “We have sports engineers, professors, researchers, 15 colleges both Indian and foreign, and sports management company representatives, who have signed up for the conference,” says Dr Modak. “The equation is simple. Unless we have engineering in sports, we cannot improve the level of playing in India,” says Dr Modak.
 
 The conference will cover aero and hydrodynamics, analysis and simulation of equipment for an athlete, facility maintenance and sports performance, sports textile, sports analytics & data science, virtual reality and wearable technology, says Dr Modak.
 
