MANGALURU:   (CIIL), Mysuru has come forward to digitize 1,400-odd publications of  . The work is presently under progress as per a MoU signed by the Parishat with CIIL and the Institute has already digitized 150 books, noted  , president of the Parishat. The project has been taken up under the   of the Institute under guidance of a  , he said.

 Addressing reporters on the eve of 101st annual general body and executive committee meeting of the Parishat, Baligar, former director, department of Kannada and culture, said digitizing Parishat publication is sure way of ensuring it remains for posterity and remains available for use by future generation. The remaining publications too will be digitized in a phased manner, he said adding that CIIL has also come forward to digitize eight major Kannada dictionaries as well.
 
 Expanding its literary reach beyond the state, the Parishat has also entered in to a MoU with Nepali Samskruthika Sangh to translate and publish 50 English works of eminent Nepali poets in to Kannada. Likewise, the Sangh will undertake the task of translating around 60 English poems of Kannada poems in to Nepalese, he said adding the Parishat and the Sangh will take responsibility of publishing them. This entire work is expected to be completed by March 2018.
 
 Noting this is a pioneering work that the Parishat has taken since he assumed charge 18-months ago, Baligar said   or the erstwhile Anuvada Academy too has not ventured to do so. “We intend to make a foray in to translating Nepalese stories in to Kannada and vice-versa,” he said, adding the Parishat has an open mind in taking up a similar literary exercise with other foreign languages including Portuguese and French as well.
 
 The Parishat is also backing a project to set up Kannada Sahitya Bhavans to promote Kannada language and literature at gram panchayats. “Donors need to register a minimum of 2400 sqft plot of land in the parishat’s name and the body will provide Rs 15 lakh for its construction. Minister H K Patil too has assured to provide Rs 15 lakh per each of these bhavans,” Baligar said, adding the Parishat has received 14 such proposals thus far and cleared seven of them.
 
