When it comes to watching television or web series, youngsters swear by the ones in English – be it fiction or talk shows. However, there are many creative minds who are making their own fun videos in English and Hindi, more contemporary and relevant to our society. In such times, web content in Gujarati is fast catching up and how! AT takes a look…

 
 
 The likes of AIB and TVF have set the bar high for web content. Story lines with a finite timeline have the youngsters waiting for each episode to release – keeping things short and quirky. Closer home, actors and writers are experimenting too. “We borrowed equipment from friends and shot the videos in my house. The budget is minimum but we wanted to explore the narrative styles. The quality is not amateur and the settings more relate-able to our cities and state,” says actor Raunaq Kamdar, who has acted in web episodes.
 
 
 
 The freedom to explore subjects and concepts online lends itself to trying out different content to experts and amateurs equally. “We brainstorm a lot and even after five to six drafts there are improvisations on the spot. The   is growing at its own pace. More and more people are trying their hand and even if at first it looks amateur, it is important for learning and getting better,” says Chirayu Mistry, who writes for online videos and content for a top channel. Henil Gandhi, co-creator of another such channel agrees. “We were a group of friends who made the channel a year and a half ago just for fun. But the response was amazing and we started creating content continuously, which is relevant to the times we live in and the festivals we celebrate,” he says.
 
 
  
 
 For the new age Gujarati actors, doing web content is just the right way to bond, unwind and be a part of something not serious. “I am a part of a Valentine special, 3-episode long web series and this was my first shot at it. The channel is known to come up with 
 hilarious stuff and I had a lot of fun being a part of it. In fact, I was recently approached by another team recently for another web series,” says actress Deeksha Joshi. Mahnaz Damania, theatre artiste and actress, who has worked for web series in other languages says, “This content is more relatable and closer home in terms of the lingo and situations created.” 
 
 
 As web content created across the country attracts ample branding to make money, back home the producers are trying their best too. Rahul Tejwani, one such producer says, “We are planning on a proper web show with a single story line. For that our focus is on the narrative so that brands will want to 
 collaborate with us and go regional.” He adds that their content is not slapstick or cheap, but bold. “You do not have to force in the ‘Gujju stereotypes’ to make the Gujarati content popular,” he adds.
 
 No wonder then that the internet generation of Amdavad is becoming loyal to the new bandwagon of web content.
 
 
 
