AMRITSAR: Ending all speculations, jathedar of Akal Takht (supreme temporal seat of Sikhs)   reached Patna on Tuesday to participate in the 350th birth anniversary celebrations of the Sikhs’ 10th master Guru Gobind Singh.

 “We are in Patna Sahib and the jathedar has gone to pay obeisance at Takht Sri Harmandar Sahib,” said Bhupinder Singh, who picked Gurbachan Singh’s mobile phone and identified himself as his personal assistant. He said the jathedar would stay in Patna Sahib till Thursday and participate in the celebrations functions. “Nobody can stop a Sikh from going anywhere to pay obeisance, and I will go to Patna Sahib,” Gurbachan Singh had told TOI before leaving for Patna.
 
 When asked about Iqbal Singh’s letter advising the Akal Tahkt other jathedars not to attend the function as they could face the ire of Sikh bodies for pardoning Sirsa’s Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Raheem Singh, Gurbachan feigned ignorance. He, however, said Iqbal was also one of the high priests who was a signatory to the decision taken by them with respect to the Sirsa dera head. He said there were certain forces trying to create controversy out of nothing.
 
 Those in Panthic circles questioned whether preventing jathedars of the three Takhts in Punjab to attend the historic event in Bihar was a fight for supremacy among religious heads given the fact that in past the jathedar of Takht Sri Harmnadar Sahib (Takht Sri Patna Sahib)   had denied accepting the supremacy of the Akal Takht.
 
 In 2008, during the time of the then jathedar of Akal Takht Giani   Vedanti, jathedar Iqbal had openly refused to accept the supremacy of the Akal Takht and had advocated that Takht Patna Sahib could also take decisions on significant religious affairs. His statement had forced the then Sikh clergy to announce before the media that only Akal Takht could take decisions on significant religious matters concerning the entire community, whereas other Takhts, including Takht Patna Sahib, could decide on local issues.
 
