Mumbai: The government should come out with dos and don’ts for   visiting sensitive shrines in the country, said Yashwant Dungre (52), one of those injured in the terrorist firing in J&K on Monday. Dungre, a hardware businessman from Kasa in Dahanu, suffered two bullet injuries below his waist. His wife Yogita suffered a bullet injury on her leg.

 The couple was seated in the third last row. When terrorists opened fire on the bus operated by Om Sai Travels, Dungre got up from his seat to see what had happened. He had no idea the bus was targeted by terrorists. Two bullets hit him on the waist. He tried to help Yogita and pulled her down when she too tried to get up. Yogita ended with a bullet on her leg. They are undergoing treatment at Surat civil hospital.
 
 Dongre said he was unaware about the bus not being registered with the   shrine. “Like everyone, we booked the bus to undertake the religious trip. Nobody told us the shrine was at a sensitive spot,” said Dungre.
 
 He said hundreds of buses leave   district and other places for the shrine. He said the government should have strict rules for vehicles going to sensitive shrines. 
 
 He recalled how he fell unconscious and found himself in hospital in Srinagar. He and Yogita were later moved to Surat. His son and daughter visited them at the hospital and they are expected by home by Friday.
 
 Pushpa Gosavi, who arranged the bus for the pilgrims from Dahanu, is also recovering following surgery. She was hit by a bullet on the back. She is at Srinagar hospital. Her husband Dinesh said his wife was recovering and will take sometime to return.
 
 Meanwhile, Palghar and Boisar observed a   to express solidarity for the victims.
 
 On Wednesday, shops, establishments and markets remained shut. School, colleges and medical shops were exempted, so were autos and buses.
 
 Two women pilgrims from Dahanu, Nirmala Thakur and Usha Sonkar, were among the seven killed. They were returning from Amarnath shrine and heading to Vaishnodevi shrine. The bus operated by Valsad-based Om Sai Travels was not registered with the shrine and was plying without police security.
 
 When the two bodies arrived in Dahanu on Tuesday evening, anti-Pakistan slogans were raised by people, who vowed to visit the shrine in large numbers next year.
 
 Wednesday’s bandh call saw a good response in Palghar. In Boisar too, shops and markets stayed shut. Dahanu city shut down on Tuesday as a mark of respect for the victims.
 
 Thane Bajrang Dal vice-president Vikram Bhoir, who led a morcha to protest the attack, said they would prevent Haj pilgrims from proceeding for Haj if the terrorists who targeted the bus are not nabbed.
 
