MANGALURU: After 48 days of prohibitory orders following communal clashes and murders, the Dakshina Kannada administration held a peace meeting on Thursday. Major political parties, including the   and JD(S), boycotted it.

 BJP state chief BS Yeddyurappa said the party leaders decided to boycott the meeting because the government has failed to arrest the killers of RSS worker   Madivala. “We don't trust the government that protects miscreants.We have decided to boycott the peace meeting. I, along with MPs Shobha Karandlaje and Nalin Kumar Kateel, have decided to stage a satyagraha in   if Sharath's murderers are not arrested,“ he said here on Thursday .
 
 Meanwhile, at the peace meeting, JD(S) leader Vasanth   and other party workers staged a walkout as their request to hold a peace padayatra from Mangaluru to Kalladka was turned down by the district administration and police. “We sought permission for a peace padayatra by party chief HD Deve Gowda and state president   , but it was declined by police and district administration. Hence, we are boycotting the meet,“ Poojari said.
 
 Leaders of CPI(M), Congress and Indian Union Muslim League, meanwhile, blamed lack of stringent police action, hate campaigns on social media and provocative speeches by leaders for communal friction in the district.CPI(M) leader Yadav Shetty said false messages of religious conversion, love jihad and cow slaughter lead to hatred among communities. “The administration has the responsibility to clarify whether such instances were actually reported,“ he said.
 
 CPI(M) state secretariat member KR Sriyan said, “Parties are trying to politicize murders and crimes through statements. Action needs to be taken against leaders who make provocative statements.“
 
 Fr Denis Moras Prabhu, vicar-general of Mangalore Diocese, suggested that leaders of all religions advise their followers and promote communal harmony .
 
 V Seetharam Berinja, CPI Mangalore taluk secretary, said provocative speeches by leaders were responsible for communal tension. “Hate speeches by leaders provoke miscreants, who take land into their hands,“ he added.
 
 Muneer Katipalla, DYFI state president said, “Political leaders are adding fuel to the fire by making provocative speeches. Accused in the murders of   and Sharath Madivala should be arrested at the earliest.“
 
