NAGPUR: Proving the myth that marriage ends most sportswomen’s career wrong,   has in fact begun to find her old magic on the   court since she tied the knot with fellow shuttler   last year.

 Her recent performances on the national circuit are a proof. Post-wedding, Arundhati has finished runner-up at the   at Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh. Earlier this year, in   she got a chance to represent Chennai Smashers that finished third in the competition.
 
 In the Senior Nationals at Patna last month, unseeded Arundhati surprised everyone with a semifinal finish.
 The icing on the cake was the triumph at Bareilly on Saturday. The 28-year-old city shuttler repeated her achievement of 2010 when she annexed her maiden All India crown at the western Uttar Pradesh city to mark her arrival at the big stage.
 
 The former India No. 1 dedicated the recent success to her husband and family members. She had a torrid time dealing with injuries but like a true fighter she bounced back “It took me little time to come back but I always believed that I could do it. My parents, Arun and my friends believed in me. They are my real strength. They are helping me a lot when it is needed the most,” said Arundhati.
 
 A trainee of Hyderabad-based Pullela Gopichand Academy for the last 11 years, Arundhati refused to accept that a woman cannot perform after marriage.
 
 “Definitely Arun is lucky for me. I think setting up family is nothing to do with your performance on the sports arena as long as you are focused. Marriage should not be a hurdle for any woman. There are people out there who think so. I have heard such things and never believed in them. No woman should listen to such things. It’s just a waste of time,” said Arundhati.
 
 She is enjoying life on and off the court and keen to extend her recent winning streak. “Yes, I am playing well right now. I am sweating it out during practice under the new singles coach from Indonesia. So I will play until my body supports,” said Arundhati. She thanked her sponsors Vishvaraj Infrastructures Ltd for their support.
 
 Arun is obviously happy with her better half’s success and committed to support her as long as she wants to play. “She has been working hard for the last few months and the results show. Last 2-3 tournaments, she has done really well. Marriage has not restricted her from playing her game,” said Arun.
 
 After creating a record of winning the fifth mixed doubles title with Aparna Balan in the Senior Nationals at Chandigarh last year, Arun decided to hang up his boots and began a new innings as coach. Originally hailing from Kerala, Arun is assisting national doubles specialist coach Kim Tan Her of Malaysia at the national camp at Hyderabad.
 
