GAYA: Virtually ridiculing opposition efforts to form a grand alliance (mahagathbandhan) led by the Congress to take on the BJP- RSS combine, CPM former general secretary   on Sunday gave a call for worker-peasant unity to meet the economic and political challenges facing the country.

 Speaking at a convention to commemorate 100 years of the Russian Revolution, Karat said there was little difference between the economic policies of the PM Narendra Modi-led BJP government and the policies of the previous Congress governments.
 
 “It was Congress which introduced liberalization that gave a crushing blow to the basic principles of socialism and caused irreparable harm to the trade union movement,” the CPM politburo member said. The convention, held in Hasrat Mohani auditorium, was jointly organized by different trade union organizations.
 
 “The only difference between the economic policies of the BJP and its Congress predecessors was that Modi was executing the anti-poor and pro-capital policies in a more aggressive manner as compared to Manmohan Singh. Assets of the a particular company have gone up by 400% during the last three years,” alleged Karat.
 
 Moreover, the pro-American tilt in the country's foreign policy was also initiated by the Congress government. Instead of forming unprincipled political alliances, the political parties of the country should present an alternative economic agenda and governance model, he said, toeing the line proposed by CM Nitish Kumar.
 
 Expressing concern over the growing rich-poor divide the world over and more so in India, he said, “Whereas one per cent of the people around the globe possessed 48% of the total economic resources, the condition in our country was more anti-poor, as in India top one per cent of the population owned more than 58% of the national resources.”
 
 Neo-liberalism, everywhere in the world, was facing crisis and the more unfortunate fact was that rightist political forces were taking advantage of this crisis in the name of nationalism, thereby adding a political dimension to the issue which, in turn, was harmful for the general public. He attributed the birth of neo-liberalism to the decay of former Soviet Union.
 
 Karat also cautioned against the move to privatize defence production. “Privatization of defence production will compromise with national security and sovereignty. Indian industrialists do not possess the technique and resources required for weapons needed in modern warfare and the foreign collaborators of Indian industrialists entering the hitherto prohibited defence production cannot be trusted in matters concerning national defence,” he said.
 
 
