NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   has sought popular participation to make the Swachh Bharat campaign a success, saying even a 1,000 Gandhis and a lakh   and all the CMs will not succeed unless the mission is adopted by India’s 125 crore population.

 Aware of the daunting targets even three years after the launch of the mission, the PM said hurdles should not be a deterrent and appealed to the opposition not to politicise the cleanliness project that aims to bring about social change.
 
 “Just because there are difficulties, should we let it be?” he asked and reiterated his government’s resolve to take the   forward. He asked his critics not to “politicise and make fun” of the cleanliness initiative. He said people’s participation in the initiative will ensure the mission is successful despite scepticism in some quarters.
 
  You have thousands of topics to criticise Modi. I give you something every day, utilise them. But don’t make fun or politicise an issue which is essential to bring change in our society,”   said at a function to mark the third anniversary of the government’s flagship mission.
 
 Lack of toilets affects women the most, he said. Why can’t men learn from their female family members who don’t urinate until they reach home despite facing problems, the PM asked. “Wherever you get space, you simply stand there... Is it simply because we are men and we are allowed to do this? Until this change comes, we can’t understand the real meaning of cleanliness,” Modi said.
 
 PM said he is aware of the challenges and recalled how there was criticism that he had “spoiled” the holiday on Gandhi Jayanti when the scheme was launched. But today, it has become a mass movement, he said.
 
 “Because there are difficulties, should we only do things that will bring applause? Should we run away from difficult tasks? We all can do this together; this is what my countrymen, civil society and media have proved,” Modi said.The PM also said politicians did not talk about cleanliness and sanitation, perhaps as they were wary of being blamed for the mess.
 
 
 
