BHOPAL: Clamour grows against transfer of IPS officer   continued in   district for the second consecutive day on Wednesday with more sections of the society red-flagging the decision. 

 While traders in Katni downed shutters in market,   workers staged protest outside home minister’s bungalow demanding cancellation of the SP. Even auto-rickshaw and other transport vehicle drivers joined the protest in Katni claiming Tiwari put an end to the ‘hafta’ system in the region. Intelligence officials say that BJP and RSS workers in region were against SP’s transfer from Katni.
 
 Director General of police (DGP) R K Shukla, who was on a routine audit in Jabalpur, told media persons “Gaurav humara Gaurav hain or wo humare saath hain (he is our pride and he is with us). Shukla said local residents in Katni should understand that the transfer was an administrative procedure and they should be patient.
 
 He has been replaced by another officer, Sashikant Shukla, who is likely take charge, on Friday.
 
 A Jabalpur-based Congress worker filed a PIL before the principal bench of high court seeking orders to the state police to cancel his transfer. On Monday, the state government transferred Katni district superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Tiwari to Chhindwara.
 
 The 2010 batch young IPS officer was investigating some influential leaders in the ruling BJP for their alleged links in an alleged Rs 500-crore hawala racket. State Congress has alleged that state MSME minister Sanjay Pathak was behind Tiwari’s transfer since he reopened investigations into the transactions running into multi-million crores.
 
 Pathak, however maintains that he has nothing to do with the transfer and he was ready to face any inquiry related to so-called scam.
 
 Home minister Bhupendra Singh made it clear that there was no need for a separate inquiry into the case. “There is no need for formation of any special investigation team for this case. If required later, the government may consider shifting it to any other agency,” the home minister was quoted as saying by a section of media.
 
 The case is likely to be forwarded to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of special task force for further investigation (STF), sources said.
 
 Congress president Arun Yadav maintained that the government has transferred an honest officer instead of taking appropriate action against those involved. Tiwari, who has been transferred to Chhindwara will be reporting to AIG Dr G K Pathak.
 
 
