GUWAHATI: In view of the admissions to   (DU) affiliated colleges, the   ( ) has hastened the process of declaring the state class XII board exam results within May. Last year, the results were declared on June 2. 

 Sources in AHSEC, which conducts the class XII examination, said the board is most likely to prepone the announcement by a week. The class X state board exam results is also set to be announced simultaneously with CBSE results towards May-end.
 
 "Class XII state board examination results may be declared any time after May 20. Early announcement of the class XII results is crucial if we want to give more time to the candidates for career planning. Obviously, students rushing to Delhi for admission to DU-affiliated colleges and other renowned higher educational institutions in other metros is an important factor kept in mind," a senior official of the AHSEC told TOI on Friday. 
 
 While Delhi has always been the most preferred destination for the most brilliant students from the northeastern region, Bengaluru has emerged as another popular destination. After six DU colleges secured positions among the top ten colleges of the country in the NIRF India Ranking 2017 recently released by the   resource of Development, DU is bracing for admission rush once again.
 
 "We have almost reached the last stage of the results declaration process. Candidates can certainly expect the results in the last week of May," said the AHSEC official. 
 
 Although most class X state board examinees aspire to get admission in class XI within the state, the Secondary Education Board of   (Seba) too has geared up for declaring results at the earliest.
 
 "Seba is likely to declare the class X results within May. We are planning to declare the results simultaneously with the CBSE so that the examinees don't face any hurdles due to delay in declaration of board exam results," said a source in Seba.
 
 While the class XII state board results has had few errors in the last few years, the class X state board exams has always been under the scanner for reported goof-ups, including faults in marksheets. Around 2.5 lakh students took the class XII state board exam this year, while about 3.91 lakh students appeared in the state X state board exams in February this year.
 
