AURANGABAD: The   of the   on Friday directed commissioner of police   to entrust investigation of Shruti Bhagwat murder case to the State CID. 

 The division bench, comprising justices SS Shinde and KK Sonawne, in its order has asked superintendent of police (CID) to carry out the investigation himself and also ordered Special IG CID Pune to monitor the probe.
 
 The division bench, while passing the order, stated that as the matter dates back to 2012, expeditious investigation is expected. In any case the investigation has to come to a logical end within six months and compliance report of this order is to be filed on or before October 10, concluded the court.
 
 Shruti (47) was brutally murdered in the early hours of April 18, 2012 at her house in Shrinath Apartment at Ulkanagri. Till date the case has remained undetected despite special investigation teams being formed by the city police from time to time. The police have questioned about 2,000 people and recorded statements of over 500.
 
 After the city police failed to detect the case, victim's sibling  , hailing from Gujarat, filed a writ petition before the HC seeking directives for a CID or   probe.
 
 Abhaysinh Bhosale, the lawyer representing Karandikar, contested that it is unfortunate and depressing to note that the investigation agency has utterly failed to investigate the crime and there has not been any progress in the said case since 2012. Moreover, the investigation team has neither filed a report in the case nor has submitted a charge sheet.
 
 After hearing the petition, the high court on March 8, granted time to assistant public prosecutor representing the case to seek instructions from the home department whether the state government is inclined to transfer the investigation to the state CID.
 
 Meanwhile, on March 30, Aurangabad commissioner of police shot a letter to the state home department requesting transfer of investigation to the state CID, while the inspector general of police also echoed similar views.
 
 This was followed by the state home department tendering an affidavit on April 4, giving green light for the CID probe. The department also confessed to the local police department's failure in detecting the case.
 
 While passing the order on Friday, the division bench ruled that keeping in view the grounds put forward by the petitioner and the fact that the manner in which the crime has been committed, we are of the opinion that justice would be met once the investigation is transferred to the state CID.
 
 The high court directed the state home department to handover the investigation to the state CID forthwith. The bench stated that the said investigation be headed by SP CID, Aurangabad and overall supervision of the further investigation should be monitored by the special IG (CID), Pune. The said authority shall constantly monitor the investigation and seek report after every fortnight.
 
 The judgment stated that the new investigation team to carry out the further investigation thoroughly and properly and take it to its logical end. Since the crime was registered in the year 2012, the investigation should be completed as expeditiously as possible, however, six months from today (Friday). The court has listed the matter for compliance of its order on October 10.
 
