PATNA: Otherwise not known for   cultivation, Bihar recently produced the nutritious miniature vegetable on ten acres of land at Ekania in Mansi block of Khagaria district. The “experiment” yielded 500 to 600kg of baby corn per acre. 

 The   per acre came to Rs 20,000, including seeds, irrigation and labour costs, according to Kunal Kishore, a manager with the Pristine Mega Food Park that is coming up in Mansi under the Mega Food Park Scheme of the Union ministry of food processing industries. 
 
 The food park will serve as a platform for reaching farm to processing units and on to the consumer markets.
 
 “It was a demonstration exercise for the farmers of the region... Now that the Centre’s food park will be there to take supplies, baby corn cultivators need not worry about the marketing of the produce,” Kunal said.
 
 Also known as candle corn in Thailand which first started seriously cultivating this   in 1970s, the   comes to Bihar from Delhi at the wholesale rate of around Rs 70/kg. In retail, it’s available at select places for Rs 24 to 30/200gm.
 
 “Even if the farmers of Khagaria and adjoining areas sell their baby corn at Rs 50/kg, they can earn a net profit of Rs 25,000/acre. For, the fodder generated from per acreage produce of baby corn will sell for Rs 20,000,” Kunal explained the economics, adding it’s a 60-day cultivation process which can be undertaken thrice a year with the only condition that the crop should be protected from extreme cold conditions.
 
 Rajendra Agriculture University’s agro scientist Ashish Narayan, known for his works on quality protein maze, told TOI that baby corn cultivation was certainly an option for farmers in Bihar if its market was instantly available.
 
 “In pockets of Samastipur and Begusarai, farmers did sporadic cultivation of baby corn in the past,” Narayan said, pointing out it was only now that the vegetable rich in protein, carbohydrate and fibre was now becoming popular in Bihar.
 
 The state government has also made efforts to create awareness among farmers about baby corn cultivation, claimed state agriculture department’s deputy director  . “Proper market tie-up is a must for this crop for it is perishable,” he told this reporter on Wednesday.
 
 Kunal sold his produce of approximately 5,000kg of baby corn in the local markets in Patna, Bhagalpur, Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Dhanbad. Once the food park turns functional, he said, baby corn farmers can sell it to the baby corn units in this food park in their neighbourhood.
 
 
