CHARMINAR: Fasting for long hours during   improves the functioning of the heart. The blood circulation also improves making people, who fast for the entire month, healthier.

 A research study by doctors from two city hospitals revealed that fasting induces a change in the electrical activity of the heart. This is because of increase in vagal tone (functioning of vagus nerve). The positive change in the electrical activity of the heart will decrease the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) and sudden cardiac death (SCD).
 
 Ramzan has been the favourite month for researchers around the world as the Islamic holy month of fasting provides the scientific opportunity to conduct research on a variety of health subjects ranging from diabetes to cardiac diseases and kidney functioning to sleep patterns.
 
 Abstinence from food and water for periods ranging up to 14 hours daily for 30 days provides the perfect research setting for doctors and scientists to understand about how the human body responds to fasting.
 
 The research on fasting and improvement in the electrical activity of the heart was conducted recently by doctors from   and   for  .
 
 As part of the research, as many as 50 people on fast were studied. They found positive outcome of cardiac functioning at the end of 28 days of fast. Fasting during Ramzan is either for 29 or 30 days depending on the sighting of the crescent. Ramzan will begin on May 27 or 28 subject to sighting of the new moon.
 
 “Fasting does produce a change in the electrical activity of the heart as a result of the increase in vagal tone.Apart from having beneficial effects on different systems, Ramzan fasting brings about promising changes in the electrical activity of the heart, which may decrease the risk towards coronary heart disease and sudden cardiac death,“ the researchers said.
 
 There have been only a few research studies on the impact of fasting on the electrical conductivity of heart. The researchers said their study will serve as a reference for further work on the beneficial aspects of Ramzan fasting on the overall functioning of the heart. The positive changes were more pronounced in healthy young people, who kept fast for a month.
 
 “Several research studies during Ramzan in previous years reveal that fasting improves to a significant extent the para-sympathetic modulation. The good result can be observed through ECG tests.The strictly disciplined life coupled with increased physical activity in the form of regular and special prayers has been found to positively impact those on fast,“ said senior geneticist Dr MN Khaja.
 
