CHANDIGARH: A day after TOI reported that the   education department will shut down 57 unrecognized schools on the basis of an inspection report of 65 such establishments, a source in the department said its officials will start carrying out checks at seven schools which were found to be meeting all norms during the initial check.

 The UT   will start inspecting the seven schools from Tuesday. Officials from the district education office (DEO) will be carrying out the checks. They will first inspect two schools in Dadumajra, Green Valley Public School and Navyug Public School.
 
 An official of the education department who did not wish to be name said a deputy district education officer will head the team of officials which will carry out the checks. Sources added that education secretary B L Sharma had asked the department to act fast and ensure that children did not suffer any harassment.
 
 During the inspection, the team will look at various aspects in detail — including safety measures, accessibility, and infrastructure. The four committees had earlier inspected schools when they had applied for recognition. The committees mentioned the anomalies in the schools, whether the school can be considered for recognition or not and suggested names of nearby government schools to which the students could be shifted if the schools are closed down.
 
 TOI had reported on Monday that the report prepared and submitted by the committees formed for inspecting unrecognized schools, recommended only seven schools of 65 schools that had applied for recognition. Since these schools don’t meet requirements under Right to Education Act, the education department will be shutting down more than 57 unrecognized schools having more than 15,000 students. However, this will be done only after students are shifted to government schools, which are overcrowded in most areas.
 
 Under the Right to Education Act, schools cannot function without obtaining a certificate of recognition and are liable to pay a fine of Rs 1 lakh or more for this.
 
