Noida: The Uttar Pradesh government has given its nod for the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) to carry out audit of the three development authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar—Noida,   and Yamuna expressway authorities. In a letter to accountant general (economic & revenue sector audit) Uttar Pradesh, Vinita Mishra, on Tuesday, principal secretary, industries, Alok Sinha, has asked for the audit to be conducted immediately.

 Earlier this year, at an election rally in Ghaziabad, Prime Minister   had openly pitched for CAG audit of development authorities in the state. On April 11, the Yogi Aditya Nath government in its second cabinet meeting gave its approval for CAG audit of  . At that time, the government had also given indications that it was open for CAG audit of Noida and Greater Noida authorities. 
 
 Several stakeholders of the three areas have also been regularly demanding scrutiny and investigation of records and accounts of the three authorities by a competent authority.
 
 Industrial development minister Satish Mahana said in Lucknow that CAG had been requested to take up audits in Noida, Greater Noida, Yamuna expressway authorities. A letter to this effect has been sent to the CAG by the department, Mahana said. Speaking to TOI, Alok Sinha, who is also the chairman of  , said the CAG is likely to begin the audit of the three development authorities soon. “We have permitted the CAG to conduct a regular audit. The income and expenditure of the three authorities will be audited,” Sinha said. For the purpose of transparency, audit will be allowed for all funds that have been used. Initially, the current financial year’s audit will be done. If the audit throws up any discrepancies or irregularities, the teams will probe further and if required, will delve into expenditure incurred in the past too,” he said.
 
 “An audit by the CAG, as provided under Article 22 (2) of UP Industrial Area Development Act, 1976 should be the starting point to unearth any financial irregularities of the past and make necessary changes to strengthen the points of failure in the financial system of the three authorities,” he added.
 
 Officials said the provision implies that majority of projects of the three areas such as elevated roads, Metro, flyovers, underpasses and road projects will come under CAG audit. Apart from carrying out checks on utilisation of funds, CAG may audit the terms of contracts, agencies and contractors to whom the projects have been awarded.
 
 Till now, there has been a tug-of-war between the Centre and the UP government about CAG’s prerogative to probe the affairs of the three authorities. The former UP governments have in the past maintained that the three authorities do not fall under the ambit of the CAG because they do not use resources out of the Consolidated Fund of India. Successive governments including those led by BSP and SP have maintained that the three authorities generate their own resources and are non-profit bodies.
 
 According to officials, UP has its own system of audit. A state government agency, Sthaniya Nidhi Lekha Pariksha in Allahabad, audits these development authorities and its report is presented in the state assembly.
 
 The financial health of the three authorities is on the decline and they are collectively facing a huge outstanding amount of more than Rs 30,000 crore.
 
