BILASPUR: Three unemployed youths hailing from Ratanpur fell victim to the fake job scam and have reportedly been duped of Rs 14.28 lakh by a man claiming to be an official at   ( ) . 

  confirmed this report, saying that a case was registered against suspect Tiikam Sahu on Thursday, on the basis of a complaint filed by   Dhevar and two of his friends. 
 
 Devkinandan Dhevar, a resident of Gidhour village had been desperate for a job as he had been unemployed for long even after completing his studies. One of his relatives told him that Tikam Sahu. a resident of Raigarh is an official at SECL and later introduced him to Sahu. Taking advantage of Dhevar and two of his friends' desperation for a job, Sahu reportedly demanded a considerable amount of money from them in exchange of providing them jobs at SECL.
 
  He assured them that there were vacancies in the company. Between October 10, 2015, to June 16, 2016, Devkinandan and his friends gave him a total amount of Rs 14.28 lakh.Later when Devkinandan enquired directly at SECL, he found out that there were no vacancies. Realizing they had been tricked, all the three friends demanded their money back from Tikam Sahu but he refused, following which they filed a complaint against him at Ratnpur police station. Police said that a special team was sent to Raigarh on Thursday to arrest Sahu.
 
 In a separate incident, a youth hailing from Tifra village was duped off Rs 1 lakh by a man who assured him a job in the police force. Additional superintendent of police   confirmed this and said that a case under section 420 of IPC has been registered and the police are currently investigating the matter. 
 
 According to sources, Ashok Mere from Tifra village was seeking a job in the police force for quite some time. 
 
 One of his friends introduced him to Kamal Sonwani a resident of Masturi. Sonwani introduced himself as a police officer and offered to get him a job in in Bilaspur police if paid an amount of Rs 1 lakh. 
 
 Ashok somehow arranged Rs 1 lakh and gave it to Kamal in February, this year. After three months, when Ashok wasn't contacted by Kamal again, he demanded his money back from him but was refused. He immediately filed a police complaint against Kamal. Police is on the hunt for the suspects.
 
