  : After one of their colleague’s allegedly died of   due to excessive workload,   employees from eight districts of   resorted to a day long strike to protest against the quantity of work being thrust on them. 

 Members of the revenue employees association went on to demand registration of offence against the senior officers of department including the additional collector of Aurangabad.
 
 Gajanan Choudhary (47), a senior clerk, who was deputed with the district  , was complaining of too much work before he collapsed at his home on Thursday evening and died of heart attack.
 
 Choudhary had incidentally made an application for voluntary retirement citing excess amount of work and had even threatened of taking extreme steps if his demands of either appointment of additional staffers to the mining department or transfer to any other department were not met.
 
 On February 6, three days before the incident, Choudhary, along with members of the Marathwada Mahsul Karmchari Sanghatna, had made a representation to the additional collector pressing for his demands.
 
 Mahendra Girge, general secretary of the organisation told TOI, “The district mining office is headed by a woman officer and it is her first posting since clearing the MPSC exams. Surprisingly, Coudhary’s office had just one clerk, which was also a deputation post.”
 
 When ToI tried contacting the additional collector regarding the non-appointment of staff at the district mining department, the calls went unanswered.
 
 Girge said that Choudhary being the only senior there, he had to play all the roles right from an office boy to the district mining officer’s personal secretary.
 
 Association members citing a couple of representations they made along with the deceased stated that in spite of several reminders and requests, the authorities failed to take cognizance of their plight.
 
 Medical sources said that the according to the post-mortem report the senior clerk died of brain haemorrhage and heart attack. 
 
