JAIPUR: In a  , body parts of a 28-year-old woman were found strewn all over the road near   after a   ran over her on late Saturday night.

 Panchu Devi was crossing the road to shield effigies of Ravana which she had made in the morning. A speeding car hit her and dragged her for 800 meters. “The driver did not stop the car after hitting the woman. Instead, the driver accelerated the speed due to which her body got stuck to the bonnet of the Honday city,” said Badan Singh, investigation officer of   police station (Jaipur-South).
 
 Upper half of the woman was found near flyover whereas other remains were found near a drain. Her body was found by a passer-by who informed the police. The body was brought to the mortuary after which the accident police station was informed about the accident.
 
 
 “She was a resident of Jalore district and had come to Jaipur for a few days to sell effigies of Ravana ahead of Dushera festival. Her husband Shri Chand and their three children were sleeping when the accident took place,” Badan Singh informed TOI.
 
 The body was handed over to the family after post mortem and police and NGOs donated money so that her body could be send back to Jalore for final rites.
 
 Meanwhile, accident police station filed a case against the unidentified driver who killed the woman. “CCTV footage captured a speeding Honda city car passing through the area. We are very close to identify the registration number of the vehicle. A case has been registered against the driver,” Singh said, adding that police are now scanning CCTV of other nearby localities to arrest the accused.
 
 
 
 
 The family of Panchu Devi had their world falling down in front of them after they saw a badly mutilated body of her. Shri Chand, the husband told cops of accident police station he did not have any money to take her body to Jalore as they had spent all their savings in buying raw material to make effigies of Ravana.
 
 “We were about 10 people in the police station, all of us came together and donated whatever we had. We collected about Rs 8,000. Other NGOs, and local people also donated the money and we collected Rs 24,000 which were enough for the ambulance,” said Badan Singh, adding that constables Govind Singh and Nemi Chand sought help from NGOs.
 
 
