Mysuru:  , the teaching hospital attached to the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI), will soon have a full-fledged Child Rehabilitation Centre. It will train parents of children with mental and physical disabilities on special needs besides providing physiotherapy, occupational therapy and other medical support.

 According to Dr Rajendra Kumar, associate professor of pediatrics, MMCRI, "Currently, we have a small centre in the department without any major equipment. We provide counselling to parents of children with special needs. Now, the tender process has been completed to develop a full-fledged centre which will come up in a separate building on the premises of Cheluvamba Hospital," he said.
 
 "The centre will have a multidisciplinary team to provide rehabilitation and counselling support to both children with special needs and their parents. This includes physiotherapy, occupational therapy, psychiatrists, ortho-surgeons, etc," he said.
 
 "Currently, a clinical psychologist of the psychiatry department, physiotherapist, counsellors and orthopaedic surgeons from KR Hospital and paediatrician from our department go to the existing centre. But it is not a full-fledged place so we provide only counselling support to parents and children. The new centre will come up in a renovated building where all the facilities will be made available under a single roof," he said.
 
 According to health department sources, the Child Rehabilitation Center is expected to help hundreds of needy children and parents not only from Mysuru but also from neighbouring districts. "Mysuru city already has a District Early Intervention Centre (DEIC) at JP Nagar. This centre was set up under the Centre’s ambitious Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK). DEIC has all the facilities for early detection of various growth-related issues among children and adolescents. Both these centres will help parents and children full-fledged medical and counselling support," he said.
 
 "Originally, DEIC was planned at Cheluvamba Hospital, but due to the space-related issues, it was shifted to JP Nagar," he said.
 
 
