KOLHAPUR: Nestled in the  , Kolhapur boasts of rich   in its   and  . The vibrant ecosystems, however, is under threat due a rising number of wildfires over the past five years. 

 The number of wildfires has increased from 74 in 2013 to 143 in 2017, almost doubling in the five-year period. Wildfires not only destroy biodiversity in the affected area of the forest, but also cause disturbance to wildlife corridors.
 
 The district has a total forest coverage of 1,672 sq km, of which, 417 sq km is a protected forest. The forest area is about 22% of the total geographical area of the district. There are three main types of forests in the district - sub-tropical evergreen, moist deciduous & the semi evergreen and dry deciduous forest. 
 
 In sub tropical evergreen forest, the principal trees are Jambul, Hirada, Anjan, Surangi, Fanas and the ground is covered with the flora mostly consisting Karvi, Brachen. 
 
 Deputy conservator of forests, Kolhapur, Prabhunath Shukla, said the number of forest fires have increased this year due to flowering of karvi plant in the forest areas. After flowering, Karvi plant dries up quickly and becomes easy source for quick spread of forest fires. 
 
 He added that since the forest area is well connected with road network, revellers often engage in arson. Even some villagers living along the forest area set dry grass on fire, that spreads quickly during summer. The villagers hope to get fresh grass during monsoon for the cattle. 
 
 "They do not realise that they actually destroy quality grass seeds. Even private land owners set fire to clear the land, but fail to control and fire once it reaches forest. These private owners would held responsible for causing damage to forest areas," Shukla said.
 
 Forest officials said that the ground flora is adversely affected by fires and affects valuable grass and regeneration. It affects vegetative composition of plants and leave the soil exposed to natural elements such as sun, wind and rain. This, in turn, triggers soil erosion, resulting in loss of the fertile soil on top. 
 
 
