MUMBAI: The   in Andheri (west), which had been held up for more than a decade, can finally proceed now with the   dismissing a plea for intervention by four   who refused to vacate. The members, in minority, have a   of May 10, to leave peacefully or be forcefully evicted. The Bombay high court had in February observed that the refusal of four flat-owners to vacate when remaining 28 occupants had vacated the premises “held up the redevelopment” of a dilapidated building, which is over 50 years old.

 The Supreme Court this week upheld an April 7 order of the appeal bench of the Bombay high court which directed that if Laxmi Bahinala and three others do not hand over vacant and peaceful possession of the premises which they occupy on or before May 10, 2017, then, the court receiver will step in to take steps to have them removed.
 
 Justice Gautam Patel had in February rapped the “minority’’ members, observed how their “obstruction harms their own society and hurts their fellow members and neighbours and said they “must be put to terms”.
 
 Builder Pratham Varadvinayak Developers had moved the high court earlier this year against the four flat-owners after they refused to abide by an unanimous resolution passed by Azad Nagar Shiv Sagar Cooperative Housing Society. The society roped in the builder last November after a 2006 plan for redevelopment lay mired in legal battles for a decade. Justice Patel had wrapped up hearing the dispute in a day and set a March 10 deadline for them to vacate the premises.
 
 The four members had challenged Justice Patel’s order. On April 7, a bench of Justices S C Dharmadhikari and B P Colabawalla after hearing their advocate Sanjay Jain, senior counsel Ravi Kadam for the developer and Birendra Saraf with Manjiri Chitnis for the society who also wanted the development to finally proceed without any obstructions, did not go into merits of the dispute but ordered the reluctant four to move out of the premises. They chose instead to move the SC, but lost the battle once again. A three-judge bench of Chief Justice of India J S Khehar, Justices D Y Chandrachud and S K Kaul, after briefly hearing Advocates Vinay Navare for the four flat owners and former union minister senior counsel Salman Khurshid for the builder, held, “no ground for interference is made out’’ and dismissed their special leave petition.
 
 
