NEW DELHI:   picked the big fish in  , but that isn't all the side has to offer. Losing R Ashwin and   before the season are big blows but the side has made up for their absence with some thoughtful local additions. They have even made a couple of trades that they hope yields the desired results.
 
 
  
 Pune snatched England allrounder Stokes for a staggering 14.5 crore, making him the costliest buy in the history of   auctions. Stokes was the highlight of the auction having bagged a blockbuster deal from a base price of Rs 2 crore.
  
 The 25-year-old has played 77 Twenty20 matches in which he has scored 1272 runs at an average of 22.71, with five fifties, and taken 32 wickets at 36.40 apiece, with an economy rate of 8.60. He brings to Supergiant a strike-rate of 134.03, and most recently in India turned in a good showing in the ODI series. After that series,   tipped Stokes to "earn millions" at the auction.
  
  
 
  
 
  
 Pune acquired Mayank Agarwal in the second trading window. Agarwal started the IPL playing for Royal Challengers Bangalore between 2011 and 2013 before he was signed by  . For them, he played 21 matches spanning three seasons and scored 355 runs at an average of 17.75. Supergiants failed to find a reliable opening partner for Ajinkya Rahane last season and finished second-bottom in the table. Agarwal's signing comes on the backdrop of his performances in the Karnataka Premier League where he finished as the leading run-getter in the tournament. He made 414 runs at an outstanding average of 103.50 to go with a strike rate of 172.50, including one century and three half-centuries.
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 An allrounder who can bat in the middle order and squeeze in economical overs, Daniel Christian has always delivered in big match scenarios. Recently in the BBL, Christian, who has played 15 T20Is for Australia, took 5/14 - the tournament's second best bowling figures - for Hobart Hurricanes against Adelaide Strikers. And ever since, his wily medium-pace fetched him a wicket almost every two overs at all stages of the innings: inside the Powerplay, middle overs or at the death.
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 It was an anxious wait for Tiwary before being finally picked by Pune during the auction. The Bengal skipper was one among the nine cricketers from the state to be listed at the auction. In the end, only Tiwary and pacer Sayan Ghosh were picked by the Supergiant and Kolkata Knight Riders respectively. He led underdogs East Zone to their maiden Syed Mushtaq Ali title. Against a star-studded North Zone, Tiwary struck an unbeaten 43-ball 75 to lead East Zone to an eight-wicket win. After sharing the KKR and Delhi Daredevils dug out in the past, will he find a settled home at Supergiant?
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 Ferguson is New Zealand's newest pace bowling hope. In his only T20I, Ferguson picked up three wickets against Bangladesh as New Zealand won the game by six wickets. Ferguson also claimed the prized wicket of David Warner in his very first ODI, and that was when the batsman was going through a brilliant run of form notching up centuries almost every second match. At some point, Ferguson he will feature in the Pune' playing XI.
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 The lanky left-armer Unadkat has been in the IPL scenario for quite a while now, but inconsistency due to injury concerns have always restricted him from giving his best. His current form isn't the greatest but he has shown time and again how well he can use his domestic experience to good effect. Remember, Pune's domestic bowling strength isn't the greatest. In such a scenario, someone like Unadkat, who is aware of the nuances of IPL will be a big factor in the bowling department.
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 Thakur is Pune's second trade of the season. His addition will add substance to their Indian seam bowling group, which includes Ashok Dinda, Deepak Chahar, Ishwar Pandey, Rajat Bhatia and Unadkat. Thakur was bought by Kings XI Punjab in 2014 for 20 lakh but he ended up playing just one match for them in 2015, after which he was released. Thakur overcame the disappointment by putting up a string show for Mumbai in the Ranji Trophy and even earned himself an India call-up when he was named in the squad for the West Indies tour last year.
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 Brother of Rajasthan batsman Deepak Chahar, Rahul is a 17-year-old legspinner who played a vital role in India's Under-19 campaign in the Youth Cup ODIs against England. He picked up 4/33 in the third match as the Indian boys chased down England's 216-run target in 44.1 overs. Rahul's stock ball is the googly and there is a strong chance Steve Smith includes him in the Playing XI at a point considering how weak Pune's spin department is.
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 An aggressive left-hand bat, Saurabh is coming off a productive Ranji Trophy season where during a Group A, ninth round match, a century from him against Baroda lifted Uttar Pradesh to 481 after being reduced to 207/7. Prior to that, he had scored two half-centuries - 53 against Railways and 52 against Punjab. Saurabh bowls effective left-arm spin and has two first-class five-wicket hauls. Hence, his all-round skills cannot be neglected.
  
  
 
 
