KOLKATA: Hours before the three-member committee “pinpoints” those responsible for medical negligence in the   death case and fixes responsibilities, legal experts have advised anxious   doctors that arresting them wouldn’t be easy given the existing legal provisions and   orders. 

 The doctors sought legal advice from at least two senior criminal lawyers in Kolkata and one in New Delhi. The legal shield is applicable only when they comply with all notices issued to them by Phoolbagan police which is probing the case, they were told.
 
 The doctors’ apprehensions were not without reason. Two days after Roy’s death on February 24, his widow Ruby lodged an FIR against “Apollo hospital authorities and Dr Shayamal Sarkar”. The FIR was registered under sections 304 (A) IPC (death due to negligence) and 384 IPC (punishment for extortion). While the first penal section is a bailable offence, the second is non-bailable for it has a maximum three-year prison term. The state probe report has already singled out medical negligence, among one of the reasons for the death. An arrest, therefore, can’t be ruled out.
 
 A lawyer said, “According to the penal sections in the FIR lodged, police have already issued a notice to examine them under Section 41A CrPC. This is done when there is no immediacy of arrest.”
 
 The apex court in July 2014 in the   case had detailed this in its judgement elaborating the provisions of Section 41A CrPC. These were also stressed in 2016 by the Supreme Court in the Rini Johar case.
 
 In order to arrest anyone now, the investigating officer has to record the exceptional circumstances to reason why arrest is required and a judicial magistrate has to ratify that. If either the police officer or the magistrate fails to do it they will face immediate departmental action. In addition, the police officer will face contempt of court proceedings. “So, there is no need for any immediate concerns as long as they are following police directions and complying with them,” the lawyer said.
 
 The lawyers advised the doctors that depending upon the probe outcome they can — at a later stage — consider moving high court to quash the FIR under Section 482 CrPC.
 
