Mangaluru: Mugisha N, a postgraduate in MSc (electronics) and Fathima Ahmed, a political science student, were the centre of attraction and inspiration at the Mangalore University’s first International Graduation Day. Reason; Despite being pregnant and had to manage things on their own away from their home-land, they did not compromise on their studies.

 Mugisha, 32, a citizen of Burundi, married to a physiotherapist, had enrolled in Mangalore University in 2015. She was carrying when she returned from holidays after first year. “I had none of my family members with me here and I stayed in a hostel. I managed everything on my own till the seventh month after which my mother came to help me. Today, I am happy because my struggle helped me to adorn a degree certificate for which I longed for years,” elated Mugisha told STOI.
 
 To everyone’s surprise, Mugisha received the degree from Mangalore University vice-chancellor K Byrappa holding her three-month-old son. Mugisha’s husband Indephonse N works in Burundi.
 
 She added that during her last months of pregnancy, Mugisha had to work on her projects. “Though it was tough working on projects when I was pregnant, I managed it,” she added.
 
 K Byrappa during his graduation address said that her son is considered as the first foreign child born in the Mangalagangothri Campus.
 
 Another student Fathima was not present for the ceremony as she had returned to her home country Afghanistan after delivery here. Her husband is a PhD scholar in the same campus.
 
 Byrappa added that the birth of two children has given our university campus a ‘gender-friendly’ tag.
 
 33 PG students graduate
 
 As many as 33 students from nearly 11 countries were graduated from the university on Saturday. The graduating students come from countries like Nepal, Afghanistan, Syria, Egypt, Sri Lanka, Kazakhstan, Indonesia, Vietnam, Hungary, Tanzania and Burundi.
 
 Student sharing their experiences their stay in the campus said that it’s completely a different atmosphere and it made them to grow. Indang Sarthika, a student from Indonesia, shared that the campus has given her new birth.
 
 
