Pune: The robbers who had shot at inspector Mahesh Nilganji and had stolen his car on September 11 used the same vehicle for a heist of Rs 5 crore just two days later in neighbouring Telangana state. 

 Mohammed Suvez Haque, the superintendent of Pune rural police, on Wednesday said the Telangana police officials had the numbers of two vehicles used in the heist. The cops from the neighbouring state even visited Yavat after they found that one of the cars was owned by Nilganji. “We working in coordination with the Telangana police to track down the suspects,” Haque said.
 
 “Investigations so far have revealed that the inter-state robbers’ sole objective was to take inspector Nilganji’s car. However, when Nilganji put up a strong resistance and started drawing the attention of passers-by, they panicked. Sensing trouble, the robbers fired a shot at the inspector’s leg and fled with his car,” Haque said. On September 13, two days after the attack on Nilganji at Yavat, his car was used in the heist. 
 
 The robbers had intercepted inspector Nilganji’s car at Yavat while he was on way to the police training centre at Nanvij, about 80 km from here. The inspector, who is posted as an instructor at the PTC, was making his daily trip to the office from his home at Manjri near Hadapsar. 
 
 The probe also revealed that the gangsters had used another four-wheeler — a Maruti Ertiga — which they had robbed from a person in Gujarat. The gang had abducted a Gujarat-based man at gun-point on July 12 and had only released him near the Rajasthan border after taking Rs 50,000, a gold chain and one cellphone. This car was also used to intercept Nilganji’s car. 
 
 “The suspects had been in Pune for four days before they Nilganji was attacked. Images of their four-wheeler was captured by a CCTV camera at a toll post on Solapur highway,” said an officer from the local crime branch.
 
 Initially, the police were working on a theory that the attack on the inspector was the handiwork of three undertrials who had escaped from police custody on April 10. However, that theory has now been ruled out, police said.
 
 
