BENGALURU: One week after a staffer was arrested for alleged molestation, parents of the Bellandur preschool kids are in a fix. With the institution shut indefinitely, they don’t know where to send the children. Most other preschools in the city have already closed the admission process, leaving the aggrieved parents with little choice.

 The preschool with over 160 children has been closed until police complete investigation into the eight complaints of molestation against the office boy, Manjunath.
 
 “We aren’t sure where to get our kids admitted. We can’t keep them at home for the next few months,” said one of the parents whose child was enrolled in the preschool for one and a half years. 
 
 While the Bellandur franchise’s registration was suspended a few days ago by its headquarters, parents still don’t know if they will be able to send their children to another franchise of the same group or will have to pick a different school. “Most of us are working professionals, and having a preschool right in the neighborhood was a boon for us. The mess has not only triggered paranoia but has also made us worry about our children’s schooling,” said another parent.
 
 According to the parents, the preschool charged Rs 50,000-Rs 70,000 for a term (one year), which could be paid in installments. “We don’t know if we will get the money back for rest of the term. What about those parents who have enrolled their children for the next term and have paid a part of the fees,” asked a parent. 
 
 Swati Popat Vats, president of the NGO, Early Childhood Association, suggested parents contact the head of preschool chain if they have paid the fees. “The brand owner has to be involved in the process of readmitting the children because he/she has taken the decision of subletting the brand name to the franchise. Typically, if a franchise loses its recognition, the brand has to take over that campus. But these are the norms followed by all preschools under our association. Incidentally, this brand of preschool is not a member of our association.”
 
 “If the head does not reciprocate to parents’ queries regarding admissions or fee refund, they can approach the consumer court,” Vats added.
 
 Parents wait for law to take its course
 
 Bengaluru: A week after the development, parents have decided to wait and watch, and let the law take its course.
 
 “Ever since we began this fight against the preschool management, we have barely been able to spend time with our children. As police have begun the investigation, we have decided to take a break and be with our children as it hasn’t been an easy time,” a parent said.
 
 The incident has garnered much attention on social media after parents of a three-and-a-half-year-old complained the child was molested by   in a classroom. Though he was arrested last Friday, the parents have been up in arms against the school, alleging that the principal, Dr Veena, and other administrative staff refused to act.
 
 Seven other parents came forward with complaints against Manjunath and the school authorities. Some parents met MP   on Friday morning, seeking his help. 
 
 Urging the police department to keep the momentum going, Chandrasekhar said: “Schools are supposed to be safe places with positive experiences for children. If schools become havens for criminals, the managements must be held responsible for the crimes.” 
 
