ITANAGAR: Former chief minister Nabam   on Wednesday lodged an FIR at the   against defamation by a 'deed' which has been doing the rounds on   and has been published by a Noida-based online news portal. 

 According to the 'deed' in question, Tuki sold the post of chief minister to   for Rs 60 crore by executing the deed on July 15 last year.
 
 In his FIR, Tuki described the deed as "false and fabricated" and said his name and that of Khandu, along with four other legislators - Phurpa Tsering, Jambey Tashi, Nabam Rebia and Techi Kaso, was doing the rounds on social media after the alleged deed was uploaded on social media sites. It then spread like wildfire, he said.
 
 Tuki said the circulation of the false documents is possibly the handiwork of people with vested interests, who want to assassinate his political career and tarnish his image.
 
 "The contents of such false and fabricated documents have brought about irreparable loss to my political career and to me, in person. It has not only tarnished, defamed and maligned my name but also has brought down my image and reputation in the eyes of the public, causing irreparable loss and injury," Tuki said. 
 
 "It is believed that some vested interested persons have conspired to carry out such illegal steps and design in order to achieve their illegal goal and for extraneous consideration. From the WhatsApp and Facebook, it could be seen that one Bengia Augung and Tsering Norbu are spearheading such illegal activities," the senior Congress leader said.
 
 Tuki further added that a Noida-based news site had gone ahead and published the story, with "not an iota of truth". He accused the news site of being "in connivance with some people who have vested interests" and added that the editor is also liable to be prosecuted under the relevant provisions of law.
 
 "Uploading of such false and fabricated document with baseless and unfounded allegations is an offence under the law and also the same amounts to an offence under cyber law, which needs to be thoroughly probed and enquired. And, it needs to be stopped immediately from further circulation by arresting the culprits involved in such illegal activities under the relevant provisions of law in the interest of justice," Tuki added in his FIR.
 
