BHOPAL: Speciality government-run medical colleges across   are not able to utilise more than 10,000 litres of life saving blood   annually.

 If the plasma is sold to pharma agencies, the by-product would enable needy patients to avail its human therapeutic use at subsidised rates — less than half the market rate.
 
 According to experts, consumables, reagents and plasma products can cost anything from Rs 3,000 to Rs 3 lakh, depending upon the ailment. As per policy, a litre of plasma can be sold for Rs 1,600. In return, the government stands to gain a vial of albumin for about the same price or subsidised rates. A vial of albumin can cost about Rs 3,000 in the open market. Generally, around five vials are utilised in seriously ailing patients.
 
 In a move to bring about transparency in the system, National Blood Policy 2016 fixed an exchange value for surplus plasma. However, neither the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) nor the   Corporation Limited (MPPHSCL) has taken initiatives to enable blood banks sell the plasma to pharmaceutical agencies.
 
 “We have not been approached by any medical college with the proposal to sign MoU for the sale of blood plasma. It is up to the medical college to take such initiatives,” said MPPHSCL managing director Pankaj Jain.
 
 “Since the matter has been brought up, the DME would take appropriate measures in accordance with the rules,” said a top DME official.
 
 Assuming the base price set under the National Blood Policy, the loss of revenue for non-utilisation of plasma could be about Rs 1.6 crore. In terms of volume, blood banks waste about three average size water tankers of plasma each year.
 
 Experts in government medical colleges, indicate that the government top brass were sent a proposal for the sale of plasma. A tender needs to be floated to invite companies. “We try to minimise the waste of plasma. However, it can be utilised in patients that require plasma transfusion. When steroids fail, plasma transfusion is considered vital in therapeutic use,” said an expert.
 
 Plasma after factorisation is used for human therapeutic use. It can be lifesaving in some conditions like trauma, massive transfusion and bleeding associated with Vitamin K antagonist anticoagulation. Commonly used proteins including albumin, immunoglobulins and clotting proteins such as fibrinogen are factorised from plasma.
 
 Whole blood is divided into three parts plasma, RBC and platelets.
 
 
