CHANDIGARH: Unfazed by the criticism that UP’s   have faced,   on Wednesday launched its own version of the anti-harassment policing operation across the state. The state police’s flying squad, which works directly under CM  , conducted ‘Operation Durga’ to detain 74 men in 14 different districts in one day.

 While the opposition parties and activists have slammed the initiative by the newly-elected BJP government in UP as moral policing, CM   has defended the decision. The UP government had even praised the squads for “doing a good job”, though it was forced to issue guidelines to police after multiple reports of overzealous squads acting against couples appeared. 
 
 In BJP-ruled Haryana, in charge of the CM flying squad SP Dheeraj Setia said 24 teams, which included 14 women sub-inspectors and 13 women constables, were pressed into action during the operations.
 
 “The operations were carried out on the basis of specific complaints from public and the inputs given by the intelligence wing. Those detained were charged for loitering. In some cases, however, young boys were let off after a stern warning,” he said.
 
 On Wednesday, sleuths from the intelligence wing also accompanied the women cops and all of them moved around in plain clothes. The teams were stationed outside girls’ colleges, schools and universities. Most of the action, however, took place in vicinity of 31 colleges. 
 
 Kurukshetra saw a maximum of 12 youths being detained, with the teams being posted outside D N College and Sanjay Gandhi Girls’ School. Those rounded up by cops were making passes at girls coming out of the school or the college. Squad rounded up 10 persons in Dadri.
 
 The other districts where the teams were active included: Yamunanagar, Kaithal, Hisar, Dadri, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Karnal, Rohtak, Jahjjar, Sonipat, Rewari, Faridabad, Gurugram and Fatehabad.
 
 Haryana CMO called it routine exercise for the flying squad and justified taking a cue from the UP government. “What is wrong in following good moves of other states? So far as this exercise is concerned, we have carried out it on the basis of complaints received from various sources,” said Amit Arya, media adviser to Khattar.
 
 This is second such major drive carried out by the CM flying squad over the past one week. On April 4, a special drive was launched against bootlegging.
 
 
