LUCKNOW: No financial issues like estimate, tenders or selection of contractors were handled by the high-powered committee formed to ensure inter-departmental co-ordination for completion of the   project on time, said former UP chief secretary  .

 The present BJP government had set up a judicial inquiry to probe alleged irregularities in the project, which was initiated by the   government. On Saturday, TOI had reported that the committee—headed retired chief justice Alok Kumar Singh—had, in its report, indicted Ranjan for “misappropriation of funds, favouring tenders, insensitivity towards environmental issues and lack of transparency.”
 
 “I merely monitored the Gomti Riverfront project to ensure inter-departmental co-ordination and to see that the project progressed on time. For this purpose, I headed a high-powered committee. The mandate of the committee was to see that the project progressed as per timelines. Financial aspects and awarding of tenders was not within the purview of this committee,” said Ranjan.
 
 “Estimates are prepared by engineers of irrigation department. Original estimate as well as revised estimates are approved by the EFC. This is the standard procedure in the government. The EFC of Gomti Riverfront project at that point of time was chaired by then principal secretary (finance)   and estimates were approved by the EFC,” said Ranjan, in a letter to TOI.
 
 “Tendering and awarding of work was done by the irrigation department and issues related to estimates and tenders are never put up before the chief secretary and hence cannot be held responsible for lack of transparency in favouring contractors or misappropriation of funds,” he added.
 
 “As far as environmental issues are concerned, I had written to the principal secretary (irrigation) to ensure all aspects of environmental clearance. The department took up the matter with the environment department and took necessary action. The chief secretary can also not be held responsible for wilful negligence, connivance and favouritism as estimates are drawn by the EFC and tendering done by the irrigation department. I reviewed the project 16 times and there was no lack of supervision. I monitored the project till my retirement on June 30, 2016, and the project was on schedule till then,” said Ranjan.
 
