

 Recently, a case of death by   was reported in the  . A 23-year-old youth in Delhi died after his mother massaged his leg which had a clot. The massage dislodged the clot and it travelled up the bloodstream, blocking an artery to the lungs and resulting in the youth’s death.
 
 Getting a massage at a neighbourhood barber shop or   is not any safer if delivered by a pair of inexperienced hands, and could land you in the emergency room with a  .
 
 Last year, 40-year-old Babu Reddy, a businessman in Bengaluru, suffered a stroke after getting a   at the barber’s. "In less than 24 hours he started complaining of giddiness and imbalance. An MRI revealed a tear in a major artery supplying blood to the hind brain, which resulted in the stroke," says Dr Ramkumar Iyer, consultant intensive care, Columbia Asia Hospital where Reddy was treated.
 
 Strokes from massage are not common but they happen. Dr Praveen Gupta, director of neurology at Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurgaon says he sees two to three such cases in a year. "Barbers jerk the neck from side to side while giving you a massage. This movement can rupture the vertebral artery, resulting in a brain clot. It can turn fatal at times but if treated immediately, the clot dissolves and the patient recovers," says Gupta. He suggests getting massages only from professionals or just avoiding them altogether.
 
 That’s a tough advice to follow because nothing soothes frayed nerves at the end of a hectic week like a vigorous massage. In the giddy anticipation of this sensory treat, customers rarely bother to check whether the masseuse/masseur is professionally trained as long as the massage is cheap and relaxing.
 
 While stroke is an extreme outcome, pain and swelling in the massaged area are fairly common, going by anecdotal evidence. Charanya Chidambaram, a marketing director based in Bengaluru, says she has suffered a swollen neck after a back-and-head massage more than once. "I had to exercise my neck a bit to reduce the swelling… it went away in a couple of days," says Chidambaram who now makes it a point to get massages only at a good spa.
 
 Head washes, too, can lead to strokes. Tilting your head back in a basin with your neck hyper-extended over the slim, cold ceramic edge can on rare occasions tear crucial arteries in the neck, resulting in clots and strokes or what is known as the ‘beauty parlour stroke syndrome’. Doctors suggest basins with neck cushions or propping your neck on a rolled towel for a safe head wash. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
