This past month, as I read about an 18-year old Patna girl's ordeal with   (TB) and her battle to access the lifesaving  , I couldn't help but recount the horrors of my own experiences with the disease, which I have had for close to eight years. Just like the Patna teenager, extrapulmonary   shrunk me from 55kg to 32kg. It also left me almost completely deaf--a condition that I have lived with for over three years now.

 My battle began in August 2007, a month after I started graduate studies at Ramnarain Ruia College. I was 17.The first symptoms were severe abdominal pain, evening fever and loss of appetite. I went to a general practitioner who diagnosed me with viral fever. Despite medication, the symptoms would return after a few days. I changed doctors, but it didn't help. Then, I decided to see an infectious diseases specialist. Her diagnosis was intestinal TB (also called abdominal Koch's). Until then, I thought TB only affected the lungs. I was perplexed and confused. I finished my semester exams in October with difficulty , and was put on the basic TB drugs in November 2007-a good three months after the first symptoms.
 
 Consuming 15 tablets a day and battling their side-effects--nausea, vomiting, and weakness--affected my self-esteem. I worried about losing out on college experiences such as forming friendships and creating memories like other students. My doctor also warned me against telling others about my disease because of the stigma attached to TB. I had to hide it as if it were my fault. I was declared TB-free in 2009. Overjoyed, I studied hard and went on to pursue PG studies at the Indian Institute of Mass Communication, Delhi. I later accepted a job at a media house and thereafter returned to Mumbai to study further and pursue my career.
 
 Without warning, the bacteria returned to haunt me. On May 22, 2013, as sunset gave way to a moonlit sky , I held my mother's hand and broke down, as the doctor informed us of a possible intestinal reinfection. A CT scan and sonography confirmed our worst fears. Life as I knew it was going to change, forever. I was 23.
 
 The infection was severe and the available drugs proved ineffective. Surgery was the only option, I was told. On my fa ther's birthday , July 24, I was wheeled into the operating theatre, for what would be the first of six major surgeries. Although the surgery was declared a success initially , my condition worsened soon after. I was transferred to a multispecialty hospital--and went through a cruel play of life and death as the bacteria spread to other digestive organs.
 
 I never felt lonelier as I fought to stay alive in the ICU, far from family and friends. As my condition deteriorated, my parents were forced to ask the question every parent dreads: “Will my child survive?“ I did, and finished what I thought was my quota of suffering. But, life was yet to throw the biggest curveball. On November 22, 2013, two days after my 24th birthday , I woke up to pin-drop silence. I was diagnosed with 70 % hearing loss; it has since deteriorated to 90 % (profound deafness), due to a rare side-effect of Kanamycin, a second-line TB drug. A conversationalist all my life, the impairment is a stark contrast to the very person I am.
 
 I took to dance as a way to heal my wounds, and gave two Bharatanatyam performances, without hearing the music. As a deaf dancer, I could only sense the rhythm through my hearing aid, but dance helped me embrace the new tunes in my life with renewed confidence.
 
 Tough as it has been, I am lucky to be alive. With 2.8 million new cases in 2015, India has the highest TB burden worldwide, but it is mostly swept un der the carpet.
 
 We need to raise awareness.We need less toxic drugs and timely diagnosis, through increased government funding to TB research. The disease not only ravages the body but financially ruins victims. My illness cost me four years of lost productivity and wages, as well as skyrocketing medical expenses and a huge out-of-pocket expenditure (Rs 40-50 lakh). My family bore the entire burden.
 
 As a journalist and a TB advocate, my sole purpose for speaking up is to ensure that no one ever has to endure the horrors I have. It's time to tackle TB on a war footing.
 
 
 
 
 
