PATNA: The   (HC) on Thursday stayed the appointment of candidates recommended by the   (BSSC) for 4,391 posts of agriculture coordinators in Bihar.
 
  The stay was ordered by Justice Dr   on a batch of six writ petitions, alleging malpractices.
  
  The BSSC received 15,136 applications for the appointments in the salary band of Rs 5,200-20,200 and grade pay of Rs 2,800 per month. The selection procedure was over and the state government has issued appointment letters against the BSSC’s recommendations.
  
  The selection was made on the basis of academic qualification and job experience. Senior advocate Y V Giri, who argued on behalf of one of the petitioners, said candidates with three or more years of job experience were given 10 marks while a few with less than three years’ experience were given 30 marks. Also, the list of recommended candidates includes at least 13 candidates who are 60 years old, he said.
  
  “All the recommendations of the BSSC made during the tenure of secretary   (now in jail) are mala fide,” Giri claimed to have informed the court.
  
  The court has also served show-cause notices to the state government and the BSSC, Giri told TOI and added the matter would come up for hearing again on February 23.
  
  Parmeshwar, BSSC’s computer operator Avinash and 22 others were arrested for their alleged involvement in a job racked that came to light following leakage of questions meant for a four-phase examination. The examinations for selection of 13,120 candidates to fill up clerical grdae vacancies, were held on Janaury 29 and February 5. The state government scrapped the exercise even before the last two phases of examinations could be held on February 12 and 19.
  
  According to sources, the BSSC since its inception in 2002 has recommended at least 55,689 recruitments. It is currently assigned to select candidates for 24,034 vacant positions at various levels.
  
  Though the BSSC was formed in 2002, it started conducting examinations from 2005-2006. Quite a few of the 40-odd competitive examinations conducted by it are facing litigation.
  
  The BSSC conducted examinations for recruitment of junior engineers (JE) on two occasions, but the exercise was mired in controversy every time after anomalies surfaced and aggrieved job aspirants moved the HC.
  
  In response to a writ petition in 2011, the HC ordered cancellation of the JE examination because the BSSC’s strongroom had been illegally opened and answer sheets were tampered with.
  
  The same examination was conducted again on September 23, 2016, but the candidates moved the HC again and disputed the sanctity of the examination as the question booklets of second shift were distributed in first shift at Ara. The state government later told the HC the examination would be held afresh.
