MYSURU: In an effort to position   as an  , the   is planning to host   like the one hosted at Bengaluru. The festival is one of the series of events which will be held to attract tourists throughout the year. 

 The festival which will be held for the first time in Mysuru, is planned on a Sunday in the second or third week of July. It will showcase the city's rich heritage and culture where an entire stretch from Hardinge Circle to KR Circle or till Devaraja Urs Road will be transformed into a carnival-like atmosphere.
 
  During the daylong celebration, more than 15 activities including painting and photography competitions, magic and puppet shows, story-telling, cycling, skating, games for children will be held on the streets. There will be foodstalls with a wide array of choices for all the food lovers. 
 
 Traffic will also be prohibited on the stretch during the day to allow revellers to celebrate freely without the hassles of vehicle movement. 
 
 Before the festival, the district administration is also planning to celebrate International Yoga Day on June 21 on a grand scale to project the tourist city as the capital of yoga in India. "Last year, around 12,000 yoga enthusiasts participated in the Yoga Day celebrations, which was held at the Mysuru Palace and other places, but this year we are expecting more participants," said a senior officer attached to the tourism department. 
 
 In August, a 'festival of lights' event has been chalked out for three days where 3D mapping projections will be displayed at three places in city including Town Hall and Mysuru Palace buildings. On September 27, the district administration will celebrate 'World Tourism Day', in December or January, Kannada Sahitya Sammelana and from September 29 onwards, events for Dasara festival will be held. 
 
 "Entire year, several events will be held in Mysuru. We have prepared a tourism calendar. We have already increased the timings of Mysuru Palace lighting for an hour during Sundays and public holidays and the musical fountain at Kuppanna Park will remain open from next week. The English version of 'Sound and Light' show will be ready by July. For 'International Museum Day', which is on Thursday, arrangements have been made to tour tourists to seven museums and other historical important places in buses of KSTDC," said deputy commissioner D Randeep to TOI.
 
 
