MUMBAI: Even as the Indian team is fighting Australia in what has been a tightly-contested Test series so far, the host camp has accused the visitors of “breaking protocol,“ and “leaking stories in the media“ during the second and third matches in Bengaluru and Ranchi. The India camp has accused Australian team manager   and media manager   of facilitating a meeting between an Australian journalist and match referee for the  , Chris Broad, soon after   questioned   for seeking the help of the dressing room over a DRS call.

 The BCCI is all set to take up this matter with the relevant authorities. “At the end of the Bengaluru Test, Dovey went to meet Broad and he (Broad) assured him that there would be no action taken against Steve Smith,” a member in the Indian team camp told TOI on Tuesday . “Broad assured the Australian team manager that this entire incident would not be reported by field umpire Nigel Llong.”
 
 Llong had taken objection to Smith looking at the dressing room after his dismissal during the Bengaluru Test, following which Kohli had lashed out at the Aussie camp for using tactics that were not in the spirit of the game.
 
 “Dovey then introduced an Australian journalist to Broad and asked the latter to give him bytes on whether the dressing room review was reported or would be reported. The journalist tweeted the following on March 17, 2017, at 4.14 pm: ‘Match officials say only time they are aware of Australians looking up to dressing room for guidance was Smith incident today .'” With Kohli accusing Australia of looking at the dressing room more than once, what has left the India camp surprised is that the match official spoke with the said journalist. “Broad has broken the ICC protocol here and nobody is looking into it,” a Team India contingent member said.
 
 Further, the Indian cricketers have been left aghast at the “synchronised effort“ on part of Australian team and media managers to share dressing room conversations with the Australian journalists from session to session.
 
 “At the end of every session, the Australian media manager goes to the dressing room where she is briefed by the team manager. She then goes and plants it with the Australian journalists. For instance, in Ranchi, when Australian players were sledging Virat by using physio Patrick Farhat's name, even the stump mic didn't catch it nor Virat spoke about it. However, at the end of the day's play, the Australian journalists started asking Virat about the incident,“ the source said.
 
 
