HYDERABAD: On Sunday, the curtains will came down on The   in Secunderabad, perhaps the last of the iconic structures that defined the city of the last century. But those who relished on its food, need not fret as a newer version of the hotel is slated to come up at the same spot in 18 months’ time.

 Known for its simple vegetarian food, the hotel is frequented by morning walkers, daily customers and floating ones by the hundreds. “We would open at 6 am mainly for the benefit of morning walkers. Recently, we started closing at 10:30 pm, instead of the usual 10 pm. As a result, we started opening at 6.30 am,” Taj Mahal Hotel partner   told TOI.
 
 While its tiffins are lip-smacking, the afternoon draws scores of meal-seekers. The non-AC section serves simple vegetarian thali called plate meals, which currently is priced at Rs 85. “It is the closest that comes to home food,” said Rajender, who has been having his lunch almost every day for last two decades at this hotel. There is also an AC section and a banquet hall as well as rooms.
 
 Taj Mahal Hotel, Secunderabad, was started by three people a couple of months after Independence in October 1947. They were  , his brother Sundar Rao and their friend, P Anand Rao, all hailing from Udipi in Karnataka. Subsequently, the three of them opened a branch in Narayanguda and then Abids and Koti. While the Koti branch eventually closed down, the other three are thriving and are famous landmarks in their respective localities.
 
 While branches at Secunderabad and Narayanguda are managed by Babu Rao’s sons, the ones at Abids, Jubilee Hills and Taj Tristar are Belsons Taj are managed by Sundar Rao’s sons. “In January 1968, Congress held its 71st AICC session in Hyderabad. The event was held at Methodist School in Abids and we catered food to all delegates, who included then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi,” Babu Rao’s son, Hari Rao, told TOI.
 
 The new   will be a multi-storied structure and will able to accommodate parking for at least 100 cars. The non-AC section will be on the first floor and the AC one on the second. Besides, there will be banquet halls and rooms. “We will ensure we continue to serve simple plate meals at reasonable rates,” said hotel partner B Ashwath Rao.
 
 Until the building comes up, a temporary branch of the Secunderabad Taj Mahal will open at Malkajgiri in March this year.
 
