NEW DELHI: The   in New Delhi is set to undertake its first ever excavation project in Kunal, in Haryana’s Fatehabad district, to study the pre-Harappan culture dating back to 7,000 BC.

 The objective of the excavation, scheduled to start next month, is to ascertain whether the remains of the civilization here may be older than the pre-Harappan culture.
 
 Kunal, a small village, gained prominence in the 1980s and 1990s after excavations by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the Directorate of Archaeology & Museums, Haryana, revealed some of the earliest pre-Harappan settlements to be discovered in India.
 
 “Our idea is to check the ancestry of the village and the pre-Harappan culture and cross-check the dates we have from 7th to 6th millennium BC,’’ said B R Mani, the director general of National Museum, also the head of the current project.
 
 The forthcoming excavation by National   will be in collaboration with the   (IAS), New Delhi, and the Directorate of Archaeology & Museums, Haryana.
 
 “Initially, it will be a small-scale project and will include only around 10 people, including experts from the National Museum, National Museum Institute, and Haryana’s state archaeology department,’’ Mani said.
 
 Among the most notable ASI finds from the mid-90s excavations were copper furnaces with smelting material and a steatite round button seal inscribed with two deer on one side and geometrical pattern on the obverse, datable to 4,000 BC, says the “Indian Archaeology 1998-99—A Review”, published by the ASI.
 
 “We are looking to cross-check the actual dates calculated to 7,000-6,000 BC for the finds—similar to the ceramic materials found in Kunal—in sites like Bhirana,’’ an official said.
 
 An ASI report of 2014 claimed—based on C-14 dating done at the Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeobotany in Lucknow—that the largest and oldest sites of the   Civilization were both located in Haryana; the oldest being at Bhirana village, also in Fatehabad district, dated to 7,570-6,200 BC, and the largest being Rakhigarhi, a village close to Bhirana, spread over 400 hectares, nearly double the size of Mohenjo Daro in Pakistan.
 
 The project will be funded by the Indian Archaeological Society, New Delhi, where B R Mani is also the general secretary.
 
 Previous excavations at Kunal have revealed the remains of three successive phases of the early and mature Harappan culture, and the Painted Grey Ware culture.
 
 
