Yavatmal: The usage of more effective even though costlier pesticide sprayer from China is one of the main reasons that caused the death of 7 farmers of Yavatmal district in the last three months. With pests striking cotton plants due to bad weather conditions, farmers told TOI that they were forced to spray more than the recommended doses.

 To tackle the problem of the early onset of pests like pink bollworm, jassids, thrips and white flies, many cotton farmers in Yavatmal chose to buy the Made in China sprayer which cost Rs4,000 but could be used to spray 10 acres in a day. The price range of domestic pumps is in the range of Rs1,100-2,600 but it could be used to spray only two acres per day. Moreover, the Chinese make had other clear advantages too.
 
 The fickle monsoon this year saw the height of the cotton plants shoot up and in most farms they were as tall as a farmhand whereas normally they are only waist-high. With many of them not choosing to take the recommended precautions, the backlash of the Chinese sprayer was felt strongly.
 
 “This pump can spray pesticides in ten acres in a day at very high speed and with great force. This year due to the tall growth of the cotton plants, the spray was being used at nose level. The user was exposed to the toxic spray and naturally there were many who took ill,” said  , a relative of Maruti Ramuji Rathod who is one of the several admitted at the   here. 
 
 According to Rathod, intermittent rains “led to more absorption of fertilizers which resulted in tall plants”.
 
 Hospital dean Dr Ashok Rathod told TOI that this year they got 316 patients in three months. Of these, 24 patients were admitted in July, 114 in August and 178 in September so far. 
 
 Seven, and not 9 as the college authorities had informed on Tuesday, have died so far. Four patients died in August and three in September, including one on Tuesday. All seven who died were on ventilator.
 
 On Wednesday, 45 patients from various talukas of the district were admitted for treatment due to respiratory problems arising out of inhalation of pesticide from various talukas of the district. Nine are in the ICU, 12 in ward 18 and 24 in the medicine ward.
 
 Excessive use of pesticide sprays is known to affect the health of farmers every year. “The hospital gets 10-12 patients every month of poisoning due to unprotected spraying but this year almost double the number of patients were admitted,” says Dr Rathod.
 
 Farmers and daily wage workers, who are being treated at the hospital, told TOI that they are also using other chemicals like monocil, emacatin benzoate, coragon etc. On Tuesday, Maharashtra’s farm task force chief Kishore Tiwari had suggested that it was the rampant use of Profex Super that was causing the problems.
 
 “We have used these chemicals earlier too but this year the affect is unprecedented. And the affect is not uniform, Some farmers have not taken ill at all,” said Ramesh Shrirame, father of the patient   from Dabhadi village in   tauka.
 
 The condition of patients in the ICU continues to be critical. Bharat Kshirsagar, of   village in Kalamb taluka, couldn’t talk at all. Gyaneshwar Zude, of village Beed in Arni taluka, too was unable to talk but managed to write down the names of the pesticides he uses on paper when TOI spoke to him.
 
 Vilas Tekam, of Ralegaon, was admitted with severe vomiting after he followed the advice of other farmers and bought and sprayed the problem pesticide.
 
 There were patients with severe eye problems too. “Their corneas have taken a bad hit but they have not lost their vision. They need to come for repatching though for total cure,” said a doctor in the ward.
 
 
