CHANDIGARH: With the   government working to keep its poll promise to rid the state of drug menace in four weeks, the party leaders are coming together to contribute in the effort. For one, there are plans to launch a campaign involving party volunteers to identify peddlers, and to reach out to those seeking medical help.

  Congress vice-president Himanshu Pathak said that a plan would be finalized after getting a nod from chief minister Captain   soon and the focus would be on using the party cadre to tackle drug abuse for better reach in every part of the state.
 
 Incidentally, Pathak was instrumental in launching a similar campaign in his previous party –   (AAP), of which he was a founder member and was part of a campaign wherein the party had sought videos and pictures from its volunteers and general public on any drug related tip off on WhatsApp. However, the campaign lost steam and largely inconclusive.
 
 Confident of winning the assembly election, AAP had started a survey of drug addicts across the state on March 1, so that efforts to rehabilitate them could be launched. The party volunteers were provided forms to be got filled with details of addicts in their areas and information from drug addiction centers.
 
 Even party leaders, who had applied for candidature during the assembly elections, were asked to mobile the volunteers to approach families having drug addicts. The idea was to get a head start on the drug issue in case it formed the government. AAP manifesto had promises like help for the drug addicts with preference in jobs.
 
 “The details of the campaign are yet to be worked out but the large cadre of the Congress can do a lot for keeping the key poll promise. Already, various government agencies are on it. Being a party in power will be an added advantage to get things moving,” he said.
 
 A key point in the party’s manifesto was, “Drug menace will be rooted out from Punjab in four weeks. All drug users will be provided free treatment.”
 
 As deputy Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, Amarinder had raised the drug issue in Parliament, calling for a National Drug Policy to fight the menace of drug addiction. Referring to the ongoing   of the Punjab government, he said, catching the addicts was not a solution. Besides, he pointed out; the addicts need to be put in hospitals for treatment and not in the jails, while actual producers and suppliers should go to the jail.
 
 
