Trichy: Many motorists who were riding along Anna Nagar Uzhavar Santhai Road on Friday took a sudden brake near Ukirama Kaliamman temple after noticing a heap of the fruits with a pink hue being loaded on a push cart. They soon realised that the fruit was ‘champakka’, most commonly seen in Kerala.

 The pink and white textured fruit has been selling like hot cakes in the city. The vendors who usually sell rare varieties of fruits such as rambutan get this fruit from Sengottai and sell about 250 kg a day.
 
 Those approaching the push cart of S Gnanasekar, 38, a native of Pazhur near Manachanallur who was selling it, were given a piece toasted with red chili and salt mixture and asked to taste. “Clearing their doubts” , he would spell it out as ‘ice nelli’ (Ice Amla). Nevertheless, after tasting the fruit, almost all motorists bought it without any hesitation. 
 
 “It is slightly sour. It has seeds inside which is bitter in taste. Even though its juice is not common it is also very tasty”, said L Kesavan, a two wheeler mechanic who bought half a kilogram.
 
 The fruit is one of the most commonly seen in Kerala. It looks very similar to the small size guava but with a very different texture and flavour. The bell-shaped fruit is used in a variety of dishes and desserts in Kerala. 
 
 “I used to visit Sengottai, where often I happened to notice the variety of fruits that arrived from Kerala with attractive colours and taste. As those are rare ones, I decided to sell them in Trichy”, said Gnanasekar.
 
 He gets the fruits from Sengottai by bus. As the reception was good for the fruit, he had decided to increase the consignment. He sells the pink fruits for Rs 200 and the green ones at Rs 240 a kg. If the arrival increases, the cost would also come down.
 
 Champaka fruits are believed to be rich in vitamin C, dietary fibre, vitamin A, calcium, thiamin, niacin, iron, sulphur, and potassium . 
 
 In terms of organic compounds, rose apples contain jambosine, betulinic acid, and friedelolactone.
 
 R.Baskar
 
 
