NAGPUR: Even though   has been in power in   (NMC) since last ten years, it has failed to fulfil many of its promises from its civic manifesto of 2012 and even that of 2007. Some projects are in the process of being completed, but many remain only on paper. Pace on these works picked up only after BJP came into the power in centre and state in 2014.

 BJP, which had allied with Shiv Sena and RPI (A) for 2012 NMC polls, had come out with a 19-point manifesto. The major promises included starting Metro Rail and increasing number of Starbuses. Other assurances included an international expo centre on the lines of Noida, an integrated sewage plan, creating new dumpyards and deletion of dumpyard reservation on undeveloped land at Bhandewadi and Chikhli Khurd, NMC’s own English medium schools, mobile pathology clinics, dhobi ghats, 24X7 water supply in the entire city, beautification of Nag and Pili rivers and major city lakes, 135km cement roads at the cost of Rs300 crore, Dr Ambedkar birth centenary memorial, Suresh Bhat auditorium, sickle-cell free city, hawkers zones, multiplex parking on BOT basis, modern vegetable and mutton/fish markets, traffic system on green fuel and CNG, regularization and development of 60,000 plots, CCTV cameras in main areas, landscapes on footpath after  , self-employment camps for youths and malls for women.
 
 The frequency of Starbuses was increased by the BJP-led government only at the fag end of its tenure. Most of the Gunthewari layouts have been regularized by the   (NIT). Work on Metro Rail is in progress and is expected to be complete by 2018. Work is also in progress on cement roads and Suresh Bhat auditorium. Round-the-clock water supply is not available in the city but water shortage has certainly reduced. Rest of the promises have only remained on paper.
 
 The 2012 manifesto had omitted some of the unfulfilled promises of 2007. They include making the city bin-free, setting up a 500MW power plant to get rid of load-shedding, street light strengthening, tourism information centre, plantation of 5 lakh trees and distribution of orange saplings to every household, completion of outer ring road, increasing revenue from property tax with the help of better mapping and starting mobile dispensaries. By 2012, there was no load-shedding in the state and so the power plant was not needed. However, the other promises are still unfulfilled.
 
 Citizens are, however, not aware of BJP’s civic manifesto and hence can’t say whether the promises made were fulfilled or not. Rajshekhar Pusadkar, a pharmacist, said that while he could not recall the manifesto, BJP-led NMC’s working left much to be desired. “The quality of civic services has remained as it is and there is no improvement. However, the construction of cement roads and Metro Rail is a good thing,” he said.
 
 Vikram Singh, a central government employee, said that it was common for parties to ignore their manifesto once they came to power. “I am not aware of the manifesto but the things BJP leaders promised since last few years are yet to materialize,” he said.
 
 Ruling party leader Dayashankar Tiwari refuted the allegations and claimed that 90% of the works promised made by the party before 2012 civic polls were either completed or in are final stages. He also cited example of making city load-shedding free and regularization of slums. “The ruling party has also improved standard of education in NMC schools. Moreover, our schools have also received ISO certification for improving quality of education and infrastructure,” he said, adding that the work on Suresh Bhat auditorium is in the final stage. “Besides this, we have also introduced four new city bus operators to improve public transportation system,” he said. The beautification of Nag river plan is in an initial stage and would commence soon, Tiwari claimed.
 
 BJP MANIFESTO OF 2012 & ITS STATUS
 
 Metro Rail | Work in progress
 
 Increase no of Starbuses | Fulfilled
 
 Gunthewari layouts’ regularization | Almost complete
 
 International exposition centre | Not fulfilled
 
 Integrated sewage plan | Not fulfilled
 
 24X7 water supply | Adequate supply only in some areas
 
 Beautification of Nag and Pili Rivers | Not fulfilled
 
 Cement roads having 135km length | Work in progress
 
 Dr Ambedkar centennial memorial | Not fulfilled
 
 Suresh Bhat auditorium | Work in progress
 
 NMC English medium schools | Not fulfilled
 
 Hawkers’ zones | Not fulfilled
 
 Multi-level parking | Only one started
 
 Regularization of Gunthewari plots | Complete to a large extent
 
 Malls for women SHGs | Not fulfilled
 
