TIRUVANNAMALAI: After hacking a 56-year-old man, who was an AIADMK functionary, to death on Sunday morning over personal enmity, three people have surrendered before the   Town police.

 The deceased has been identified as V Kanagaraj, former Tiruvannamalai Town secretary of the party and resident of Tiruvannamalai. The incident took place near the Town Police Station at about 7 am along the South Mada Street as Kanagaraj and his friend G Kannadasan were riding a two-wheeler on their way to the Government College along the Girivalam path to play badminton there.
 
 The accused were identified as Funk Babu alias N Babu, 44, P Raja, 31, and A Saravanan, 26. The   was filmed on CCTV camera installed in the vicinity.
 
 While Babu was tailing Kanagaraj and Kannadasan on a bike, the other two waited next to a car somewhere ahead along the road. As Babu intercepted the scooter, Kanagaraj and Kannadasan fell off the vehicle. Raja and Saravanan then started attacking Kanagaraj with sharp weapons. Kannadasan who was overpowered in his bid to save his friend started running to the nearest police station with Babu on his trail. But before the police could reach the spot, Kanagaraj was killed.
 
 The police shifted the body to the Government Tiruvannamalai Medical College Hospital. In the meantime, the trio reached the police station and surrendered.
 
 The preliminary inquiry revealed that Babu and Kanagaraj had been involved in real estate business. Kanagaraj had to give Rs 2 crore to Babu. Since Kanagaraj was avoiding him lately, Babu asked Kanagaraj to give him one of his shops in Gandhi Nagar in the town. This led to an enmity between them.
 
 Denying any political motive behind the murder, Tiruvannamalai Superintendent of Police R Ponni said, “One of the murderers (Babu) and the victim were realtors. The motive behind the murder was personal enmity over money issues.”
 
 She added Kannadasan, who was injuried in the incident, was admitted to a hospital. They have registered a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 302 (murder) of the IPC against the trio. “They are being interrogated. We will produce them before the court on Monday,” the SP said.
 
 
