MARGAO/PANAJI: A day after   claimed to have made headway in stitching together a non-BJP alliance to bring down the Manohar Parrikar-led government, the coalition partners of the ruling front, on Saturday, rubbished the opposition talk and said there was no threat to the stability of the government.

 The strongest rebuttal came from the minister for town and country planning (TCP), Vijai Sardesai, the leader of the   (GFP), which has three ministers in the cabinet, all holding major portfolios. 
 
 “Congress is a devastated house. There is no question of even touching it,” Sardesai said, while addressing reporters in Margao. 
 
 “It is we (GFP) who made Manohar   the chief minister. We were the ones who devised the scheme of bringing Parrikar back to Goa to head the government. I will definitely not backstab him,” he said. 
 
 The Fatorda MLA was referring to media reports that the   was working out a plan to cobble together a non-BJP government with Sardesai as the chief minister. 
 
 “We have no reason to be dissatisfied with the chief minister. The chief minister is working overtime. We have complete confidence in the chief minister that he will take everybody together and get the necessary funds from the Centre…” Sardesai said, thereby setting to rest any speculations of unrest among the GFP ministers. 
 
 “The GFP is the voice of the government…and our voice is heard within the government,” Sardesai, who was with the Congress for many years till 2012, further stressed. 
 
 Taking a dig at the Congress and its state president, Luizinho Faleiro, Sardesai said, “Faleiro and Congress are an episode of the past. Goa Forward is the future…The person who was expelled by the Congress is now asking for the expulsion of the person who had expelled him. And the Congress secretary in-charge (A Chellakumar) even says that the party is considering the demand. See what level the Congress has stooped to!” Sardesai said. 
 
 Stating that the GFP was committed to delivering on its promises within the confines of the “coalition dharma”, Sardesai, pointed to certain contentious issues within the government.
 
 “There are issues like the industrial promotion board (IPB), which are contentious. The IPB has given approvals in no-development zones and we have told the chief minister that all the cases under IPB will be reviewed,” he said.
 
 Health minister Vishwajit Rane also rubbished claims that there was resentment in the government and said people have felt let down and cheated by the Congress party. 
 
 “Nobody is interested in the Congress at all, especially with the failed leadership of Rahul Gandhi, who is going to be whitewashed in 2019. Why should anybody go to the Congress party? We all have our future and accountability at stake. Whatever decision I have taken is in the interest of the people. Even out of power they fight. This is the situation in the Congress party. There’s no point discussing them at all. They’re irrelevant,” he told reporters on Saturday.
 
 Stating that “nothing good would come out of the leadership of Chellakumar,” Rane said that the Congress would lose the election in the next five years. The upcoming panchayat elections will also be an indicator of how the party will fare, he said.
 
 Reacting to the disqualification petition filed against him by the Congress, Rane said that even he could take up the issue of disqualification of (Congress MLAs) Alexio Reginaldo Lourenco and Francis Silveira for being absent for the elections of the speaker and deputy speaker of the legislative assembly.
 
 Senior MGP leader and PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said there is no question of anyone from the coalition government moving anywhere. “Because of our condition, Manohar Parrikar came back to Goa from the coveted position of defence minister. Our government is very stable,” he said.
 
 Revenue minister and Independent MLA from Porvorim Rohan Khaunte, too, affirmed that the Parrikar-led government is strong and stable rubbishing reports of any threat to the government. “Our government is doing a good job,” he said adding that coalition members are happy under the Parrikar’s leadership.
 
