 BAREILLY: A wave of resignations by   workers that started following the expulsion of CM   from the party for six years on Friday continued a day after. In a mass show of support for Akhilesh, more than 55 leaders of the party’s youth organizations resigned from their posts on Saturday morning.
  
  The Bareilly city head of the ‘Mananiya Mulayam Singh Yadav Youth Brigade’, along with all 21 members, put in their papers declaring Akhilesh to be the leader of young party workers. Though the expulsion of Akhilesh has been revoked, party workers who have resigned said they will wait for further directions from him.
  
  Speaking to TOI, Faheem Haider, who quit from the post of city president of ‘Mananiya Mulayam Singh Yadav Youth Brigade’, said, “Though we belong to the youth brigade of Mulayam, our loyalty is with Akhilesh, who is the party’s future. We were disappointed with his sudden expulsion for six years. Akhilesh is a true socialist and will be leader of every youth party worker.”
  
  After Akhilesh and his uncle,  , were taken back by party chief Mulayam, Haider said they are not going to withdraw their resignation which has been submitted to Mulayam. “We are waiting for directions from Akhilesh and will act accordingly. We want Samajwadi Party to form the government again after the state assembly elections in 2017 and Akhilesh Yadav to be chief minister,” said Haider. Apart from him, 21 members of the group also resigned.
  
  Similarly, disappointed with Akhilesh’s expulsion, all 22 members of the ‘Mahanagar Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha’ in the city put in their papers. City president of this committee, Saif Khan, said for them Akhilesh was a youth icon and his expulsion from the party was a big blow to all organizations which were cohesively working under his leadership.
  
  Former state secretary of SP, Rizwan Barkati, who quit along with 14 leaders. said, “Akhilesh, known for development, is a partner of the youth. He gives respect to women, is sympathetic to the elderly and supports farmers and Muslims. We want a compromise in the family and after it, Akhilesh should be made national president of SP.”
  
  Earlier on Friday, SP’s city unit president Zafar Baig had resigned.
  
  Akhilesh supporters burnt effigies of Amar Singh on Saturday. They claimed that Singh had played a role in creating misunderstanding among members of the Yadav family. The former’s effigy were burnt at a few places, including near   and Chowki Crossing.
