NEW DELHI: “Mosquitoes don’t wait for  ,” an exasperated Delhi high court remarked on Tuesday as it again found the AAP government and the corporations wanting in their efforts to check   and chikungunya.

 Reminding everyone that Tuesday was also National Dengue Day, a bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice C   directed the agencies to map geographic locations that were worst hit by the vector-borne diseases last year. It also sought a comprehensive status report highlighting steps taken to prevent another outbreak.
 
 “We don’t see any fumigation on the ground and no geographic mapping of vulnerable areas. Should Delhi suffer again? The government should have taken an umbrella lead in this,” an anguished bench observed when it saw that neither the Centre nor the corporations had spread awareness about the disease and its treatment.
 
 The court also observed that the agencies were not keeping a tab on stagnant water or doing vigorous fumigation. “In April and May we have seen 90 cases of chikungunya and 30 of dengue. This is when monsoon is yet to start. And the corporations can’t even map where it occurred most last year, or where   breed the most,” the court noted, citing a TOI report.
 
 HC also took a dim view of the AAP government’s standing counsel   interjecting midway in the PIL proceedings where he argued that government is taking preventive and curative steps. “You have come in with a lot of aggression and raised the pitch,” the bench pointed out to Mehra, asking him to produce records of how early the government started work on its preventive and curative plan.
 
 “Today we observe National Dengue Day without any concrete steps from even the central government,” the court noted, asking the Centre to place its proposed plan before the court.
 
 The bench made it clear that the commissioners of the corporations run the risk of being held liable in case it finds laxity in enforcing directions. It asked them to file information on the number of people prosecuted last year for allowing dengue mosquitoes to fester. HC is also mulling over setting up of a high-level committee for taking effective measures against recurrence of dengue and chikungunya this year.
 
 The court had earlier asked all local bodies to place before it their respective factsheet to verify who can be held responsible for ensuring its directions are complied with. It had also asked   to ensure that good water is supplied to people for drinking as many of these diseases occur due to poor supply.
 
 The court’s observations came while hearing two PILs, one filed by advocate   and the other by Gauri Grover, accusing the AAP government and the corporations of not acting vigilantly and responsibly to control dengue and chikungunya outbreaks.
 
