GURUGRAM: The result of the recent municipal elections in Faridabad, in which the   did not contest on the party symbol, has forced it to have a rethink. The state leadership feels that the party could have fared better had it contested on its symbol.

 Talking to TOI,  , president of   and a former MP from Sirsa, said that in the coming  , the party should contest on the party symbol. Meanwhile, after winning the municipal elections in Chandigarh and Faridabad, BJP has already announced it will contest on the party symbol.
 
 “I feel we should contest on our symbol, so that voters know who our official candidate is. I strongly feel that in the recent municipal elections in Faridabad, one of the main reason we could not get the majority is that we did not fight on our symbol. Had we done so, I’m sure we could have won easily. There were multiple candidates in each ward who claimed that our party was supporting them, which confused our voters and divided the votes,” he said.
 
 The ultimate decision, though, will be taken by the party’s senior leaders. “We will discuss this issue in the party forum, and a final decision in this regard will be taken soon,” he said.
 
 Following accepted convention, Congress had not contested on its symbol even in 2011, when the first-ever election for the MCG was held. It still managed to get a majority, as several candidates who contested as independents were hand-picked by Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit Singh, who was in Congress at the time. He, though, crossed over to the BJP before the 2014 General Elections.
 
 BJP has said it will take strict action against disgruntled members. 
 
 “We have already decided to contest MCG elections under the party symbol, and we want the party cadre to fully support candidates nominated by the party. There could be some disgruntled members, who, after failing to get party tickets, might contest as independents. We will keep a watch over them and take action if they work against the party,” said a BJP leader.
 
