Thane: The   ( ) is developing a mobile-based application on the lines of fleet cabs in a bid to help commuters find and hire empty auto rickshaws within city limits. 

 The initiative, a first of its kind for any municipal body in Mumbai or surrounding areas, is likely to help local commuters in their daily travel as finding autos during peak hours is an arduous task. The function of the application would be same as that for fleet cabs wherein residents can book autos from anywhere in Thane city through their mobile or a telephone number. 
 
 A draft presentation of the concept was made by a team of experts and was discussed before civic chief Sanjeev Jaiswal on Monday. A consultant that had devised a similar application for Kolkata taxis was also present at the meeting held in the civic headquarters. A proposal to customise the application for residents based on local needs and transport patterns was also discussed, said an official.
 
 Presently, a fleet cab operator has tied up with an union and is already operating a service in Thane wherein customers are charged a small fee in addition to the regional transport approved fare. 
 
 The TMC said it is presently in talks with a few vendors who would work out a final project report while the civic body will simultaneously coordinate with the transport department and auto unions to make the initiative a reality soon. A revenue and operational model will be worked out but the TMC is unlikely to look at it as a revenue source, added an official.
 
 There are nearly 25,000 autos operating in the city catering to the roughly 18 lakh population in the city but commuters often complain of not being able to locate an empty auto in time. A few far flung areas of Ghodbunder are some of the worst hit wherein commuters end up waiting for several minutes before finding a mode of transport. 
 
 “The application will be at par with   and   and will help ease the problems faced by residents in finding an empty auto in the city, especially during peak hours. The TMC will spend on software costs only and could possibly help out with finding space for back office and allied requirements,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner. 
 
 Officials said that the application will also save the cost of constructing auto stands in the already space-starved city. There are nearly 125 authorised stands in the city while requests for many others are also pending with the authorities.
 
