SHIMLA: With devastating fire gutting almost entire Benwari (Tangnu) village of Rohru tehsil in Shimla district on Saturday night, affected families were left homeless in freezing cold. Located at an altitude of around 9,000 feet the place is known for heavy snowfall. The incident has once again exposed the vulnerability of villages which are mostly made with wooden structures and store fodder (mostly dry grass) for cattle in winters.

 In January 2008, almost all of Malana village was razed to the ground in a   leaving around 900 people shelterless as over 160 houses were gutted. In November 2008, 35 houses of Solang near Manali were destroyed by fire in. In 2015, around 72 houses of Kotla village in Kullu district were gutted in a major fire.
 
 Former IAS officer and social activist from Kinnaur, R S Negi said that tough geographical conditions and remoteness of villages make it difficult for the fire tenders to reach there during emergency. He said there is a need to build large water tanks equipped with water hoses in each village which can be used during fire incidents.
 
 According to sources, in the last 10 years the state has witnessed over 16,500 fire incidents including forest fires in which an estimated loss was calculated to be over Rs 1,200 crore.
 
 After finding that fire tenders cannot reach the remote location the state fire services department had formulated a plan to set up personal hydrants in thickly populated villages. A trial was also conducted in Chansu village of Kinnaur where a huge water tank was built on a hill top and its main water outlet was in the middle of the village.
 
 Sources said five water hoses, each of 50 meter in length, and capable of reaching all 90 houses of the village were kept ready for emergency use but this plan could not be implemented in other villages.
 
 Chief minister   said that the state government would provide all possible assistance for proper rehabilitation of all the affected families who lost their houses and belongings in the fire incident. He said that an immediate compensation amount had already been dispersed by the district administration as per the relief manual to all the affected families besides distributing blankets and clothes.
 
 He said that directions have been issued to the administration to ensure medical facility for these families and that they do not face difficulties due to shortage of water and power supply. Singh said that he himself would take stock of the rehabilitation work from district administration on regular basis and would visit the fire-affected families soon.
 
 He said that all the affected families would be provided financial assistant under   and   on priority basis and they would be provided TD by the forest department for the construction of houses.  's Kangra MP Shanta Kumar has given Rs 25 lakh from his MPLAD fund for the rehabilitation of affected families.
 
