 Barely four days into the new year, Twitter has already found it’s first hot topic of discussion. The Department of Consumer Affairs announced earlier this week that ‘service charge’ (which varies between five and twenty per cent at different restaurants) will now be entirely up to the customer to pay or simply ignore. As you can imagine, a vast majority will chose the latter and so, social media is going berserk about the whole point of including   (SC) on bills now. 
 
  Tejpal Gandhi, whose The   does not levy any SC, says, “I don’t believe in imposing SC on the patrons and have discontinued it at our restaurant. We do the best we can to please people, but everyone has a different perception about being ‘served well’. People should realise that we are providing a service and tip voluntarily. If you eat at a restaurant abroad and don’t tip, the person comes up and asks you if the service was not good.   is a personal choice, but given the choice, no one will pay it here.” But the important question now, is what this sudden change is going to mean for everyone. 
  
  
 
  “We don’t charge any SC at our restaurant. A customer is never happy to pay it when it’s included in their bill. Now that it’s voluntary, there will be no point in levying an SC since no one is going to pay. So instead, restaurants might resort to a marginal hike in prices,” says 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  As expected, there are mixed opinions across the industry about the way forward. While some restaurateurs feel that SC needs to be mandatory, there are others who says that it should be scrapped entirely. Praful Chandawarkar, the owner of  , insists that SC is a multi-dimensional charge. “Service includes the parking space, ambience, hygiene, variety of food and beverages available, technology used by the restaurant and so on,” he says, explaining that these are all expenses incurred by the restaurant and hence, are part of the SC that they levy. Chandawarkar feels that SC is necessary here, as people do not tip well in India. On the other hand, businessman and restaurateur Subhash Sanas feels that SC should be completely wiped out from the industry. “It should be left to the customer’s discretion whether he wants to tip the staff. It should not be added to the bill, thereby forcing the customer to pay. The hefty service tax by the government already puts a damper on your meal experience, so adding SC to it only increases the bill,” he insists.
  
 Kunal Mhaske, the owner of  , has an interesting take on this situation. Clarifying that paying SC was always at the discretion of the patron, he adds that SC covers the daily expenses of restaurant staff, and so, perhaps setting a cap on it might be more beneficial to both parties, is his opinion. “Salaries vary as per restaurants, so I feel patrons should respect the service and pay the charge. But right now, there is no specific limit on SC being levied. This value can be capped so that the people providing service get their due and the patrons don’t feel like they’re overpaying,” says Kunal. 
  
 
 
  The   and Hoteliers Association has asked restaurateurs to put up signs mentioning that both service charge and service tax are levied by the restaurant. Ganesh Shetty, president of the association, informs, “The amount of service charge varies according to the restaurant’s management, but it is between 5-10 percent by local restaurants and 20 per cent by national and international chains.” 
 What’s interesting to note here, is that many waiters across the city feel that this is not going to affect their earnings. Hevan Lala, a waiter at a restaurant on   says, “Certain customers give tips on a regular basis even after paying service charges.” Another waiter at an FC Road restaurant says, “As service charges has been made voluntary, if restaurant’s stop levying it, there is the possibility that we may get it as a tip. It depends on the customer satisfaction and mood, which the waiters can influence.”
  
 - with inputs from Anup Satphale
 
 
  
  
 
