CHENNAI: It was a day of mixed fortunes for city police commissioner   at the  , where one judge warned him of a non-bailable arrest warrant if he failed to appear on March 27, whereas in another case he got relief, as a division bench dispensed with his personal appearance on March 22.

 Justice S  , pointing out that the commissioner had not appeared in person on Monday as directed by him and that the government law officers gave incorrect information to court on submission of a report, said, “Admittedly, the report has not been filed before December 6, 2016. There is non-compliance. Since this court intends to clarify as to the exact date of filing of the report, the commissioner of police, Chennai, is directed to appear before this court on March 27, and explain the same, to avoid non-bailable warrant.“
 
 The matter relates to an August 22, 2016 order directing the commissioner to furnish details of   cases pending and being kept in cold storage till 2011. The report should be in by December 6, 2016, the court had said, adding that if the report was not filed, the commissioner would have to appear before the court to give an explanation verbally and in writing thereafter.
 
 Since it was not filed within the time frame, the court directed the commissioner to be present in court on Monday. When the case was taken up, the judge spoke of a few 'black sheep' in the high court establishment and said the report on cases pending with   (CCB) wing of city police was not available till Friday evening when he called for the bundle. However, Monday morning's cause list mentioned that the report had been filed.
 
 The government lawyer said police had `inadvertently' filed the report in the first additional sessions court. On verification, this claim was found to be incorrect. Citing all this, Justice Vaidyanathan said, “Thus, it is clear that the report has been filed in the eleventh hour only to prevent the appearance of the commissioner before this court.“
 
 Later in the day, the first bench of acting Chief Justice Huluvadi G Ramesh and   dispensed with the appearance of commissioner George before the court of Justice N Kirubakaran on March 22. The judge had summoned the officer since the latter had failed to comply with the court's order to provide police security to a whistle-blower.
 
