AHMEDABAD: In a rare case,   high court has permitted a minor and mother of a one-month-old infant to live with the family of her boyfriend till the time she turns major and can marry him.
The HC made it very clear that it passed such an order because of peculiar case details and this order must not be treated as a precedence.
 
 The case pertains to Santarampur town in   district. A15-year-old girl eloped with her boyfriend after her parents insisted that she should marry a boy of their choice. Af ter various litigations and FIR against the boy for kidnapping a minor, police apprehended the couple and brought them back. The girl was sent to the women shelter home on HC's order because she did not want to live with her parents.
 
 The girl's father obtained the girl's custody from the women shelter home through an order of a special POCSO court though the HC had ordered to place her in protective custody .The POCSO court even got a rap for this misadventure of superseding the HC order.
 
 When the girl went with her parents, she was pressurized again to marry another person.Parents' advocate even threatened her that if she did not agree to marry on her parents' wish, her boyfriend will be jailed on charges of her kidnapping.
 
 After some time, the girl eloped with her boyfriend once again. Her father filed a habeas corpus petition in the HC. Police launched an extensive search operation. Last week, cops brought her to the HC along with her one-month old son.When the judges tried to explain her the situation, the girl flatly refused to go with her parents. She even declined the offer to stay in women shelter home. She told the court that it was impossible for her to live in the shelter home with the infant.She insisted to go with her boyfriend, who was the father of her son.
 
 The HC did not find any way out. It summoned the boy's parents who assured the court that they would look after her and the child because he was their grandchild only . They also promised the court that when the girl turns 18 years of age, they would arrange her marriage with their son.
 
