THANE: Fifty policemen lying in wait, a gang of  , and then a 115-km   at night. This is not the climax of an action film, but how the   foiled a robbery at Bank of Maharashtra’s branch at   along   in the early hours of Saturday.

 The police action started Friday evening when four crime branch teams launched a search for suspicious elements, following tip-off about a robbery bid at a bank, jewellery store or gold finance company. At the other end, an eight-member gang from Jharkhand conducted recce of the locality for two days, stole a getaway car from Rabodi area on Thursday, arrived outside the bank around 11 pm and started waiting for the nearby shops to shut for the day.
 
 Around 1 am Saturday once everything was clear, four of the robbers, carrying drilling machine, gas cutters and other equipment to break the bank’s vault, launched the strike by breaking the shutter of Raj Motor Training School’s office, which shares a brick wall with the bank. Once inside the office, they started breaking the wall between the shop and the bank. “One of the teams that reached the spot felt something amiss and closed the shutter from outside. The police team swooped down on the four men who had a country-made revolver, a gas cutter and drilling machine,” said additional commissioner of police (crime) Makarand Ranade.
 
 By then, the four men had drilled a huge hole in the wall to enter the bank. Upon questioning, they told police about their associates waiting outside in a car. The police team took down the vehicle’s registration number and description and immediately sent another team to nab them. 
 
 But the car sped away on seeing the police, leading to a 90-minute-long chase.
 
 DCP (crime) Abhishek Trimukhe, who led the operation, said, “The control room and officials in the area were informed about the vehicle. A team chased the car till Ghoti in Nashik, where the Nasik gramin police had caught hold of them. All the eight accused are from Jharkhand and the prime accused is Sakim Shaikh (33), who worked as a mango seller. He was part of the gang that robbed the Manappuram Finance's gold loan branch in Ulhasnagar and made away with 32 kg of gold jewellery worth Rs 9 crore.”
 
 All the eight men hail from Sahibganj in Jarkhand, police said adding that the dacoits mainly targeted banks, jewellery stores and finance firms.
 
 “The gang would choose their target carefully after reconnaissance of the locality. They would roam around in the area in the guise of fruit vendors or hawkers and conduct a surveillance,’’ Trimukhe said.
 
 “They would go separate ways after robberies so that they are not traced. Even this bank was targeted on a weekend as the crime would have come to light only on Monday,” added Ranade.
 
