Are you one of the many students attending college away from home here? If so, you’d probably be aware of the nightmare that comes with looking for that perfect little place to stay.   asked the experts — students themselves — for some handy tips to keep in mind before looking for a cosy pad. 

 
 
 Due to the competitive nature of the property market, students sometimes end up living in poor conditions. Being new to the renting process, it is very hard for students to make a decision. So, to reduce the stress and make it easier to choose, it is always good to decide on a budget before you start looking for a place. “From experience, I would say it’s very important to keep a budget in mind while looking for a  . Without a planned budget, you will end up wasting a lot of time looking at spaces you cannot afford or maintain,” says Mahima Bijlani, a student of St. Joseph’s College.
 
 
 
 Make sure that the place you choose is safe and fairly populated at all times. A lonely area might spell trouble for a young person who does not know the city well. Always trust your intuitions, and never be in a hurry to finalize things in this regard. If you find yourself in two minds about a living space, just look for another one. Your home is a place that you should love and feel comfortable in, so do not compromise. “No one likes to be stuck in traffic for hours together. It makes sense to look for a space that is close to your college rather than spend hours travelling to and fro,” adds Mayukh Sen, another student of St. Joseph’s College.
 
 
 
 Before you move in, you should always do an area check. Look for accessibility to basic necessities, without which you will not be able to live comfortably, no matter how big your new space is. “Take your time to check out the new locality and see if you have all the basic facilities, such as medical stores, grocery shops, super markets, food joints, ATMs, etc., close enough for your comfort,” says Mahima. If you are among those who travels to and fro by public transport, see how far your house is from the bus stand. Never settle for a space that does not have adequate drinking water and hygienic toilets.
 
 
 
 Sharing helps in various ways. Consider getting yourself a housemate to help you split rent costs and other utility bills. But do keep in mind that you need to invest a lot of time in choosing a housemate as well, as you don’t want to be stuck with someone you don’t get along with. The key to finding the perfect housemate is to not rush. 
 
 
 
 Before putting pen to paper and signing the rent agreement, make sure you check every single thing properly. Read the fine print well and double check the house for leakage and other damages, because you would not want to keep paying extra for the repairs. “Opt for a house that has less deposit and make sure that you check the terms and conditions of renting the space. Also, make sure to check on basic rules, and do’s and don’ts list put out by the landlord. You don’t want to end up getting yourself a bad rep just because you did not know the rules,” points out Bharat Sharma, a student from St. Joseph’s College. 
 
 
