BENGALURU: The Karnataka government’s blanket ban on plastics has now come under the scrutiny of the Centre and is being questioned at the   (NGT). While the NGT has dismissed the petitions which questioned the total ban,it has nonetheless given room for the Centre to curtail the total ban if it is in violation of the Environment Protection Act and the   (PWM) rules of 2016, passed by the Centre.

 The Centre and other stakeholders have raised concerns over Karnataka’s blanket ban on plastics irrespective of the difference in thickness. They have argued that while plastic is a versatile material, playing major role in delivering and sustaining quality, comfort etc., it also provides safety of modern life. The NGT has observed that the Union ministry of chemicals and fertilizers, “...in effect made a case, that the plastic materials should be allowed and the rules framed by the government of India regarding regulation of plastic materials must be scrupulously followed.”
 
 On January 13, while hearing the case between various plastic manufacturers and the state of Karnataka and others, the NGT noted that the department of chemicals and petro-chemicals under the Union ministry of chemicals and fertilizers has sought for avoiding a blanket ban on the manufacture, supply, sale and use of plastics.
 
 Sharing the Centre’s concern, another of the respondent, the Central Institute of Plastics Engineering and Technology (CIPET) echoed the view that the blanket ban was not correct. In its submission, the CIPET said “...complete ban of manufacture, use and sale of plastic carry bags and other items is against the public policy.”
 
 During the hearing, the state government argued that the environment protection was unmanageable without the plastic ban and that it formed a sizeable amount of municipal solid waste (MSW) in the state. Quoting the Karnataka environment report 2011 statistics, the NGT was told that the state generates 450 tonnes per day (TPD) in plastic refuse out of the 9,000 tonnes of MSW.
 
 Taking all these into consideration, the NGT exposed a possible loophole in the total ban on plastic by Karnataka. Citing that the states were only delegatees of power granted to them by the Centre in issues concerning the Environment Protection Act, the NGT said: “...if the central government is of the view that either there is excess of the exercise of the powers or the powers are in violation of rules, it is always open to the central government to pass appropriate orders under section 5 of the EP Act.”
 
 As per the rules fixed by the Centre under the Plastic Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 2016, the manufacture, stock, distribution and sale of carry bags made of virgin or re-cycled or compostable plastic with a thickness below 50 microns is prohibited. 
 
 The   in its notification on March 11, 2016 had barred all such manufacture, supply, sale and use in the state, without exception to the thickness of the plastic of 40 or 50 microns and below. The only exception given by the state was for plastic which was for export purpose, an integral part of packaging goods, used by forests and horticulture department and for milk and milk products.
 
 Plastic generation in the state
 
 Agencies Plastic waste Total MSW
 
 State environment report 450 TPD 9000 tonne
 
 NEERI, Nagpur 750 TPD 14,500 tonnes 
 
 *FKCCI says Karnataka manufactures 8.46 million metric tonnes of plastic as of 2013.
 
 *KSPCB says of the 201 plastic manufacturing units in the state, 120 of them are located in Bengaluru alone, producing 77,247 tonnes every year.
 
 *Estimated Pan-India investments : Rs 30,000 crore
 
 TPD: Tonnes Per Day
 
