VARANASI: The   has asked senior officials of   (RPF) to initiate action against policemen, who caught a constable and thrashed him when he was chasing a prisoner fleeing from custody after jumping from a   between   on Wednesday evening. 

 Three cops of Mau, including Ramchandra Saroj, were escorting an undertrial Ravindra alias Raju, who was shifted from Varanasi district jail to Mau last year for conspiring violence inside jail. On Wednesday, Raju was taken to Varanasi under police custody for hearing in chief judicial magistrate's court in a murder case. After hearing, Saroj and his colleagues boarded Krishak Express to take Raju back to Mau jail.
 
 When the train was moving between Mahpur and Audihar, Raju asked the police to take him to toilet. When Saroj took him there, Raju pushed him and jumped from the moving train. Saroj pulled the chain to stop the train and also jumped out to catch Raju. When he was passing through the guard's bogie, some RPF personnel caught him and started beating, on charges of chain pulling. Saroj continued shouting to let him catch the prisoner trying to escape but the RPF cops took him inside the guards bogie where they and the guard thrashed Saroj. Taking advantage of it, Raju fled the scene.
 
 Someone prepared video clips of the RPF personnel and handed them over to Saroj's colleagues. When the train reached Mau railway station, Saroj and his companions reached the SP office to report the matter. An alert was sounded and Raju was caught in Saidpur area of Ghazipur district late at night.
 
 SP Mau Abhishek Yadav sent a report to RPF commandant. The report sent to RPF commandant contains details of the act of RPF personnel. The video clip of incident had also been attached with it. The RPF officials have been asked to initiate action against the cops who caused hurdle in the work of police and allowed the prisoner to escape. No action had been initiated against Saroj or other cops of escort team as there was no laxity in their duty.
 
 
