BENGALURU:   was denied permission on Thursday to meet his aunt and leader, VK Sasikala, by authorities at Central Jail, Parappana Agrahara, where she is serving a four-year term after being convicted in a  .

 Accompanied by three TN MLAs, the AIADMK leader arrived in an SUV in the afternoon but was stopped at the gate. His request to meet his aunt was turned down. Dhinakaran waited in vain for permission till 4.30pm, and then returned.
 
 Speaking to the media outside the gate, Dhinakaran denied that Rs 2crore was paid to jail officials to ensure VIP treatment for Sasikala. “They are baseless allegations,” he said, adding: “I had come for a routine meeting.”
 
  came hours after the newly appointed head of the prisons department, ADGP NS Megharikh, made his maiden visit to the prison. According to a source, Megharikh surprised jail officials by walking straight into the prisoners’ barracks and interacting with the inmates.
 
 Megharikh arrived at noon and asked prison officials to wait for him in the admission room, prison police officials said. Megharikh interacted with inmates from C and D barracks. 
 
 “He asked them about conditions inside the prison. Then he enquired about the quality of the food, time of serving and the quantity. Also, he asked about water supply inside the prison, including drinking water availability,” the sources said.
 
 Later, Megharikh returned to the admission room and interacted with staffers, the source said. 
 
 “Somashekar, prison superintendent from Kalaburagi, was transferred to Parappana Agrahara in place of Krishna Kumar, chief superintendent. R Anita, superintendent at Parappana Agrahara prison, was transferred to Dharwad prison,” jail officials said.
 
 VIP treatment to Sasikala and several other irregularities were raised last week by then DIG (Prisons) D Roopa in her missive to her then head DGP (Prisons) Sathyanarayana Rao. The letter went public and protests broke out in prison in support and against Roopa.
 
 Earlier this week, the state government transferred Rao, Roopa and Krishna Kumar.
 
 
 
 Former IAS officer Vinay Kumar, who is heading a probe into the affairs in Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara, on Thursday spent time inside his chambers located on the third floor of MS Building. “Vinay Kumar was busy collecting details of the last week’s spat between prison department honchos. He also went through media reports on the spat,” a source said.
 
 On Wednesday, Vinay Kumar had visited the jail and spoken to inmates.
 
