Trichy: Six boys rescued from the streets escaped from TMSSS Sontham boys’ home in Trichy city on Sunday evening, bringing to fore the lack of security at the children’s homes. Though the home administration tried to keep the issue under the wraps, the police and the district child protection unit (DCPU) confirmed the escape of the boys and also the rescue of four of them on Monday. 

 Six boys, all minors, allegedly escaped from the home at V N Nagar 3rd street at Chinthamani in the city on Sunday. They were brought to the home after they were rescued as child labourers and runaway children. The authorities were waiting for orders from the child welfare committee (CWC) for proper rehabilitation. 
 
 When TOI enquired with the home administration on Monday afternoon, one of the staff denied that boys had escaped from the home. The staff also maintained that all the children kept in the home were safe. 
 
 Meanwhile, the matter reached the city police which began investigation during the course of which the home admitted to the fact that six boys had indeed escaped from the home. The information of the escape of the home was not even passed to the district child protection unit (DCPU). 
 
 Initially, district child protection office (DCPO) M Geetha feigned ignorance about the escape of the children but later she confirmed that they had escaped from by climbing over the gate. 
 
 “Though the boys ran away from the home in the evening on Sunday, the home did not inform us. After I came to know about the escape, I enquired with them. We have asked them to give an explanation for not reporting the matter to us,” DCPO Geetha told TOI. She also said that four boys were traced and the search was on to trace the remaining two. 
 
 “Four boys who went back to their parents were brought back to the home,” said Geetha. 
 
 A Mylvaganan, DCP (law and order), Trichy city, said that the home told the police about the escape after the police enquired about it based on information. “The search is on to rescue the boys. They should file a complaint based on which we will register a case,” Mylvaganan told TOI.
 
 
