NEW DELHI: The contingency plan taken by the east corporation appears to be woefully inadequate given the enormity of the sanitation crisis in the trans-Yamuna areas. While the dhalaos along commercial stretches like Vikas Marg were being cleared on Monday, the ones on the internal colony roads are overflowing with kitchen  , blocking the traffic flow. The filth and the stink apart, walking along these streets is fraught with health risks. 

 Kishan Chand Sethi (79), whose house is located near a dhalao in Geeta Colony, said, “It has been four days now, but the corporation has failed to come up with a solution. All drains in my mohalla are choked with garbage and senior citizens are falling ill. The same story gets repeated every six months. Will they (corporation) ever wake up?” 
 
 In some colonies, privately-engaged workers have started dumping garbage on the roadsides since dhalaos are bursting at the seams. Rakesh Momin is one such worker who collects trash from over 200 houses of Geeta colony. “I find no place to dump the garbage. Dhalao is full and one side of the road is already strewn with garbage. We are dumping the waste wherever we can.” 
 
 In Krishna Nagar,   of waste littered the roads caused massive traffic snarls. Rajiv Nayak (31), a resident of A-block Shani Bazar, said, “The garbage has now started blocking the entrance to our house. Some kids in the neighbourhood are suffering from diarrhoea. There is a school next to our house and the children are at a risk of contracting some disease or other.”
 
 Said Daljeet Kaur (53), a housewife: “There was a garbage collection problem earlier too, but it has worsened of late. My three-year-old granddaughter has caught fever. We have stopped opening our windows to avoid the stench.” 
 
 The problem is severe in Krishna Nagar, Vishwas Nagar, Bihari Colony, Bholenath Nagar, Gagan Vihar, Ganesh Nagar, Farsh Bazar and parts of Geeta Colony. 
 
 Kamal Jain (45), a trader in Vishwas Nagar, said: “Massive traffic jams occur on this stretch in the evening. The main road has turned into a dump yard. Forget customers, even I can’t stand the stench.”
 
 Meanwhile, the striking sanitation workers took out a march along Vikas Marg and burnt an effigy of CM Arvind Kejriwal near the Mother Dairy plant in protest against non-payment of their dues by the Delhi government and EDMC. Radhey Shyam Gupta, president of Vikas Marg Traders’ Association, said “Although cleaning of the dhalaos has started, the streets continue to remain filthy as no sweeping has been done in the past few days. Vikas Marg is the vital link to trans-Yamuna areas, but people would soon avoid this stretch if the garbage problem persists.”
 
 EDMC has deployed 35 private trucks to clear the accumulated waste. On a normal day, the Gazipur SLF receives almost 500 truck-load of domestic waste from east Delhi. RWAs have reported that dhalaos near Vikas Marg, West Vinod Nagar, Sanjay Park in Shakarpur and   are being cleared. 
 
 However, the sanitation workers’ union are crying foul at the corporation’s move to engage private contractors. Rajendra Mewati, president of  , said, “Where is the corporation getting money from to pay these private contractors while its own employees are forced to go without salaries for months. Is this a solution?” 
 
 
