A 14-year-old girl was gang raped by three youths, including two minors, in the city’s north division.

 The accused apparently used the victim’s  . The main accused, her neighbour, would take the seventh standard student to restaurants to buy her chaats.
 
 The main accused was friends with the victim for the last two months. He would wait for her near her school and after her school hours, would take her to eat chaat.
 
 As summer vacations were on at the victim’s school, the accused took her to watch a movie. After the movie, he took her to a dilapidated building in Peenya II stage and allegedly raped her. He then called his friends who also raped her. All the three have been arrested. The third youth is suspected to be minor too.
 
 “Fearing that her mother would scold her, the victim had taken shelter at her friend’s house for five days after the gang rape. The incident came to light on May 13 after the girl returned back home. She was allegedly raped five days before. After she went missing, her mother had filed a complaint suspecting that somebody had kidnapped her daughter. After the victim returned home, her mother questioned her and got to know about the gang rape. The victim’s mother later brought her to the police station after she had told the police about the incident,” said an officer, who is part of the investigation.
 
 The girl’s father died two years ago. Her mother works with a blood bank. The accused would approach the girl when her mother would go to work. He is alleged to have been taking her even to his house and had also introduced the victim to his mother.
 
 In April, when the accused’s mother was not at home, he is alleged to have raped her and had made her consume contraceptive pills.
 
 “On May 8, the main accused took the victim to watch the movie at a theatre in Yeshwanthapura. He also brought two friends for the movie. After the movie, around 8.30 pm, the trio under the pretext of dropping her home took her in a bus to Jalahalli and got her juice. From there, they went to Peenya II Stage and found a dilapidated building, where they allegedly raped her,” the officer said.
 
 After the rape, the accused trio is said to have gone away from the spot. From there, around 10.30 pm, when the accused was walking home, she found her friend and told her about the incident. Fearing that her mother would scold her, the victim took shelter at her friend’s house for five days.
 
 
 The North division police, who have registered the case, have arrested all the three accused and have sent them to a juvenile home. Among the three, two are confirmed to be minors. The police have subjected the victim and the accused to medical tests.
 
