 (en route to Sandakphu): Several trekking enthusiasts and tourists are stranded in   after the tracks turned hazardous following unseasonal heavy   on Saturday. With roads and tracks buried in 8-9 incheds of snow, vehicles could not move beyond Tumling, around 19km from Sandakphu. 

 Adventure-seekers have been asked to stay put in camps till the weather clears and tracks become safe.
 
 Locals said Saturday's snowfall was the heaviest in March in recent memory. The last time it snowed as much in 24 hours was six years ago, but that was in the height of winter, not spring.
 
 The light snowfall on Friday was perhaps a warning of what lay ahead. But no one really paid any heed. Rather, most were pleasantly surprised to experience snowfall at a time when they least expected it. The joy, though, was shortlived. On Saturday, the popular Sandakphu-Phalut treck route experienced heavy snowfall. "It snowed continuously from 11am to 8pm. Though it had snowed on Friday as well, the snow that fell on Saturday was so heavy that it made movement outside the trek huts impossible," said Aparna Chakraborty, a tourist from Hooghly who was stranded in Tonglu but managed to trek down to Tumling on Sunday afternoon.
 
 Tourists said cost of food as well as porterage had shot up three-four times after the weather worsened. A plate of khichri was being served at Tonglu for Rs 200, while proters were charging Rs 600 to carry luggage from Tonglu to Tumling, 2km away. News trickling in from Kalipokhri and Sandakphu hinted at an evolving crisis as water had frozen and supply of food had dried up.
 
 Jawans from the camps of paramilitary border force   in the belt, one at Tumling and the other at Sabarkum, who trek down to Sandakphu and back in two hours took four hours to trek half the distance in shin- to knee-deep snow. "From Meghma onward, the section has become extremely hazardous. As the snow compacts, the tracks are becoming extremely slippery and can cause accidents," a jawan warned.
 
 The trek to Sandakphu at 11,929ft and Phalut at 11,811ft begins at Manebhanj, at 7,054ft. A 9km trek takes one to Meghma. From here, there are two routes to Tumling at 9,600ft, one direct and another through Tonglu at 10,130ft. The track then descends to Gairibas at 8,600ft before the climb to Kalipokhri begins.
 
 
