 While almost every second Amdavadi thinks it’s perfectly acceptable to abuse existing   rules,jump signals,park on the road and never get caught, it is time to look around and recheck the situation. Ahmedabad’s traffic police has decided to draw up a list of five time repeat offenders and bar them from driving for three months. If the person is caught violating rules during those three month the license will be permanently cancelled. AT takes a look at how the offenders will be apprehended and punished. 

 “I received a challan, but I went to court the first time and paid the fine,so I will be able to drive my vehicle again is what I feel,” says an offender on condition of anonymity.“It is not even my fault as the vehicle is being used by my brother who had been jumping signals but because the vehicle is registered under my name the   came to my place.” The challanis given by the traffic   at the offenders’residence in person the reason behind which B K Patel, DCP (traffic- admin) says,“If we post it or send it through any other medium it may take time which we don't want,so currently the traffic cops are going to the offenders’ residence and are handing the challans over to the offenders themselves.” Another offender who received a challan says, “The other day when the traffic cops came to give me the challan at home they had a whole bunch which they gave to a lot of people in our building. I think people are still unaware of the rules.”
 
 The offender is barred from driving any vehicle for three months after he receives the challan. The Ahmedabad Regional Transport office has also decided to suspend licenses of 6,700 Amdavadis. When asked would the rule apply to someone who doesn’t belong to the city, Patel states, “The vehicle will be seized and released only after the fine is paid, so it is almost impossible to miss an offender.” In case of stolen vehicles, Patel says, “The owner must immediately inform the police about the same so that if the robber is caught on camera, it might help us catch the accused.” While most Amdavadis are blissfully ignorant about most of the rules, only those repeating their offences need to be worried as their licenses will be suspended. “How the offender will be punished and fined will be decided by the court, as and when the offender marks his presence in court. Licenses of those who do not appear in court will be suspended immediately,” says Patel.
 
 
 
 ■ If the offender doesn’t turn up at RTO within 15 days of receiving the challan his license can be cancelled 
 ■ If the offenders are caught driving during the suspension period their licenses can be cancelled 
 ■ Five time offenders are likely to be fined heavily and barred from driving for three months. 
