BENGALURU: As many as 42% of students of Class 4 to 8 and 36% of Class 9 to 12 said they are subjected to harassment by peers on school campuses, a five-year study conducted at 15 locations across the country has found. Harassment comes in various forms on school campuses: Students are made fun of, bullied, teased, insulted, and ridiculed, besides physical fights. Experts said rampant harassment on campuses confirmed by the   underlines the lack of social and emotional learning in Indian schools.

 “Schools do have value education and moral science, but these are restricted to books. Bringing in practical social emotional learning can help everyone in schools and beyond,“ said Maya Menon, director, The  , which carried out the survey in association with Wipro Applying Thought In Schools ( ). The survey covered Bengaluru, Shivamogga, Mumbai, Chen nai, Bhopal, Guwahati and nine other cities. During the survey, 69% of students from grade 4-8 admitted to difficulties in working with students who are different from them in attire and mannerisms. Also, 53% teachers reported students are aware of their good qualities and talents.
 
 Those part of the survey said these findings stress the fact that schools need to focus more on relationship management and selfawareness, which are among the five social emotional competencies identified as relevant to Indian students.
 
 More boys -54% -reported physical harassment and complained of beating and fighting among themselves, compared to girls -46% -across country . The other major concerns reported in the study are interpersonal relations of student with peers, friends, and teachers.
 
 The research is part of a nationwide exercise to develop a framework of standards for social and emotional learning (SEL) in Indian schools. Prior to the study , national and international research on SEL was reviewed to come up with a draft framework based on the five social emotional competencies. The other social emotional competencies are self-management, social awareness and decision making.
 
 “The study highlights the key strength and areas of improvement of the Indian school environment to nurture social-emotional competencies in students. We have tried to gather the data and experiences from mental health experts, heads of schools, teachers and students,“ Maya Menon said. Based on the study, a set of gui delines for developing social emotional learning will be compiled for teachers and schools and submitted to the authorities like the ministry of women and child development or the HRD for putting them into action.
 
