NEW DELHI:   on Monday accused NDA’s vice-presidential candidate and   veteran Venkaiah Naidu of irregularities, citing four instances where he and his kin allegedly benefited from official favours. The party demanded that Naidu and BJP clarify the allegations in the interest of accountability.

 In a bid to embarrass BJP during the campaign for the VP’s post, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh said Naidu, “as BJP national president, was accused of grabbing 4.95 acres of land in Andhra reserved for the poor and the destitute”. He said the “embarrassment caused by public accusations forced Naidu to return the land in his native town of Nellore”.
 
 Ramesh claimed the Telangana government secretly passed an order on June 20, 2017, to waive development and other charges to the tune of Rs 2 crore owed by Swarna Bharat Trust to the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority.
 
 He said Naidu’s daughter is the managing trustee.
 
 Ramesh said alleged that the Telangana government, in July 2014, awarded an order worth Rs 271 crore for purchase of police vehicles to two companies — Harsha Toyota owned by Naidu’s son and Himanshu Motors owned by chief minister KCR’s son.
 
 Ramesh said the   on April 6, 2011, quashed the allotment of 20 acres of land in Bhopal to ‘Kushabhau Thakre Memorial Trust’, chaired by Naidu. He added that the land was allotted by MP’s BJP government for a pittance and that the land use was changed from ‘residential and forestry’ to ‘commercial’.
 
 Naidu refuted Congress’s allegations against him, saying they are false.
 
 “It is evident that these issues have been referred to a few days before the election to the post of vice-president, clearly reflecting the political motives and the mischievous intentions.
 
 This is clear evidence of the sense of... political bankruptcy of Congress,” he said in apoint-by-point reply to the questions askedby Congress.
 
 Naidu said the Telangana government had clarified that Swarna Bharat Trust was not the first or the last to be given exemption from development charges, and gave details of several organisations given such exemptions, including by Congress governments.
 
 About the supply of vehicles by Harsha Toyota to the Telangana government, Naidu said the dealer never dealt directly with the government in the procurement of vehicles.
 
 “The parent company, i.e. Toyota, offered to supply vehicles as desired by the state government at DGS&D rates and the supply order was placed on parent company, i.e. Toyota Kirloskar,” Naidu said.
 
 About the allotment of land by MP government to Kushabhau Thakre Memorial Trust, Naidu said that, as BJP chief, he was ex-officio chairman of the trust and had no role in the allotment. “Isn’t it a fact that several trusts were similarly allotted land by various governments, including Congress governments?” he asked.
 
 On the 4.95 acres of land in Nellore, he said the issue was raised by local Congressmen in 2002, but the charge of landgrab was dismissed by a court.
 
 
