Biker gangs rule the streets of Kolkata every night, pulling a stunt or zigzagging along cars posing threat to their own lives as well as to thousands of others on the road heading home.

 The increasing number of accidental deaths and the cops’ inability to restrain the bikers have even made chief minister Mamata Banerjee worried. Banerjee, on Friday, said that the government was planning a new law to rein in the bikers by confiscating their two-wheelers.
 
 A week after bike racing snuffed the lives out of two teens on Kamalgazi flyover in south Kolkata and a day after the CM’s prod, TOI hit the streets to find out the ground situation
 
 EM Bypass near Ruby crossing (Biker 02)
 
 Time: 11pm-11.15pm
 
 What we saw: Rows of motorcycles are parked in front of two tea and cigarette shops at the crossing. Three youths on a high-speed bike cross over the road against incoming traffic to reach the spot. They were not wearing helmets. They parked their bikes on the road, bought some puffs and sipped tea before zooming at at least 80-90kmph towards Ajaynagar.
 
 Neither any cop nor a patrol car was visible in the area.
 
 “Youths on bikes assemble here. They park their bikes beside the road, lean on them and harass girls passing by. Then they start racing against each other from Ruby rotary till Patuli,” said a resident of Abhyudoy Housing co-operative Society.
 
 Prince Anwar Shah Road Connector-EM Bypass crossing (Biker 03)
 
 Time: 11.20pm-11.40pm
 
 What we saw: The Prince Anwar Shah connector is one of the most favoured racing tracks for the bikers who start from Sapuipara crossing and take a sharp turn towards Patuli from Kalikapur crossing and then again take a U-turn from Ajaynagar to return to the starting point. On this route, there are at least three police checkpoints. But after 11pm, no cops are found, be it on the road or at the kiosks. TOI spotted several bikers, without helmet, speaking over phones, occasionally smoking and passing on the counter to the pillion riders while speeding at above 100kmph.
 
 “The youths drive so dangerously zigzagging past cars that I fear one of them may hit my car any time while taking sharp turns,” said Saikat Dasgupta, a Jadavpur resident, who take the road to return home.
 
 Kamalgazi flyover (biker 04)
 
 Time: 12am-12.30pm
 
 What we saw: Travelling against traffic seems to be the norm on this flyover as not only bikes but even cars were found racing against traffic using the wrong flank. This is the same flyover where two teenagers, Rahul Banerjee and Payel Guha, had died after Rahul’s bike hit the side rails. Payel fell 35 feet down on the road after being flung off the bridge, while Rahul was killed on the flyover itself.
 
 A week later, TOI found no cops at either end of the flyover as bikers, without helmets, sped at ease. Two SUVs were also found climbing the south-bound flank from Narendrapur end and speeding towards Garia against traffic.
 
 Deshapran Sashmal Road-Prince Anwar Shah Road (biker 06)
 
 Time: 1.30pm-2pm
 
 What we saw: The crossing has three shacks that remain open all night serving tea, cigarettes, Maggi and even cannabis. The stretch from   has three more shops that remain open all night selling cold drinks, cigarettes, potato chips and even alcohol, albeit in hiding. TOI spotted at least four bikes parked in front of one of the shacks opposite the Tipu Sultan Mosque. Some bikers were found sitting on their two-wheelers with one of them pouring alcohol in a soft drink bottle. Another was found preparing a cannabis joint.
 
 As a car passed by with a girl stretching her head out of its window, one of the bikers whistled and said: “Bike pe aja darling. Zyada mazaa aayega (Ride my bike darling. You will get more fun).”
 
 Two policemen were found on the other side of the road near Tollygunge Phanri leaning against chairs and occasionally dozing. But the youths are unperturbed and so are the cops.
 
 
