The   administration has reclaimed nine acres of government land in Talegaon-Dabhade in Pune district from Dadar-based Balmohan Vidyamandir Trust. 

 The trust did not adhere to guidelines related to land lease use. The land was given on lease in 1974 and extensions were granted twice. It was allotted for construction of a swimming pool and a stadium. The estimated government value of the land is about Rs 6 crore.
 
 Resident deputy collector Rajendra Muthe, who initiated the drive under the collector’s orders, said the land was reclaimed after issuing notices. “We have entered the government’s name in the 7/12 extracts after reclaiming the land this week. We have noticed that such plots are taken on lease and are not used for the purpose,” he added.
 
 The drive by the district   was initiated after the Comptroller and Auditor General had pointed out discrepancies in the use of government land leased to educational institutions in the district.
 
 When contacted, Girish Rege, one of the directors of Balmohan Vidyamandir and a trustee, told TOI that the trust will decide how to deal with the matter.
 
 “Our trust was established in 1940 and runs two schools in Mumbai and a residential school in Talegaon Dabhade. The school was granted government land on lease for Re 1 per acre per year for 15 years which was renewed. The total land on government lease is 30 acres which includes the nine acres in question,” Rege said.
 
 Currently, nearly 1,400 institutions, government offices and members of the public have been granted nearly 4,500 hectare of government land in the district.
 
 The tehsildar of Maval had drawn up a report in 2012 stating that the land was not being used for the purpose it was granted. Under directions of the Public Accounts Committee, checks were conducted and notices issued to Balmohan Vidyamandir Trust in 2013, 2014 and 2015.
 
 In a written reply in May 2014, the trust stated its inability to construct the swimming pool and stadium, citing huge expenses and the depleting water table as reasons. It sought permission for a bird observatory on the land.
 
 Revenue officials said they filed a land-use violation case with the divisional commissioner, who issued orders last year for the collector to initiate proceedings to reclaim the land from the institution.
 
