DARJEELING: Indicating that he is keen on leading the fractured party, rebel GJM leader   on Wednesday said he would go to Delhi before the Puja to gauge the Centre's mood on the Hills impasse, after talking to the West Bengal government.

 “I am a party `sevak'. At the moment, my party is in crisis and being one of the founder members, it is my responsibility to steer it out of trouble,“ Tamang said. “Party leaders are either hiding or have gone out of the Hills to safer place with their families. But I am still here and will remain here with my family to work for Gorkhaland,“ the expelled leader added, taking a dig at party chief Bimal Gurung.
 
 Tamang, however, asserted that the need of the hour was to lift the strike that has paralyzed the Hills -without undermining the demand for Gorkhaland. “The Centre has already made it clear that it is up to the state government to call for a tripartite meeting.Therefore, we engaged in talks with the state. The strike has not affected the state or the Centre, but the Hills people.We can always adopt different strategies to continue democratic agitation for Gorkhaland, without the strike,“ he said and appealed to the people, tea garden workers, government employees to help restore normalcy .
 
 “But it is important to know Delhi's mood and how they look at the present crisis in the Hills. I will go to Delhi and try to find that out,“ said Tamang.
 
 His haste to go to Delhi isn't without reason. Critici sing the Tuesday's meeting for not discussing Gorkhaland, GJM assistant secretary   had appealed to the Centre to convene the tripartite meeting immediately .“The death of 11 Gorkhaland supporters and 90 days of strike were not to bargain for bonus, salary , winter allowance for teachers and development issues,“ he said.
 
 Amar Singh Rai, the Darjeeling MLA who also represented the GJM in the second round of talks, said a party central committee meeting would be convened to prepare a report on the pros and cons of the strike. “I will place before our central committee what transpired in the September 12 meeting,“ he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the 91st day of the strike passed off peacefully. Some banks and offices remained opened. Teachers of government schools reported to duty. Two state buses also ferried passengers from Siliguri to Darjeeling and returned with police escorts. Vegetables, fruits, meat and other edibles were sold on roadside throughout the day.
 
