AURANGABAD: A 40-year-old man committed suicide after killing his wife in   village of   tehsil on Thursday. 

 The primary investigation has revealed that the man suspected his wife of having an affair and this led to altercations between them. "The couple would fight so often that their two sons, aged 12 and nine years, had started residing with their grandparents in a nearby locality," said a police officer investigating the case.
 
 The deceased duo - identified as   (40) and Kavita (35) - was married for 15 years.   (rural) superintendent of police   said, "The husband has committed suicide, while his wife has allegedly been murdered. There are specific reports of the man frequently assaulting his wife citing alleged illicit relationship."
 
 The officer added that the police are trying to connect dots between the two deaths, as both of them are unnatural.
 
 "The incident came to light after the couple's oldest son   came to the house on Friday and found his mother lying motionless with injury marks on her face. After she did not respond to his attempts to wake her up, he raised an alarm and alerted the villagers. Soon the police was also informed and the woman was taken to the hospital, where she was declared brought dead," said a police officer.
 
 "Family members expressed fear of   being behind the alleged murder and they along with the villagers launched a search for him. He was finally found lying motionless in their farm. He was rushed to the hospital, where he was also declared brought dead," he added.
 
 According to the police, when Kishor reached home on Thursday after completing his work at the farm, he got into a fight with his wife. "In a fit of rage he smashed her face with a stick and later forcefully fed her poison. Following this, the man latched the door from outside and left home before reaching his farm, where he too allegedly consumed poison," said the officer.
 
 "Their bodies have been sent for autopsy and reports are awaited. We would be registering a case of murder in to the incident," he added. 
 
