PATNA: With the election of ward councillors of the   (PMC) round the corner, it’s time for the sitting councillors to tell the voters how hard they worked to improve civic amenities for them during the last five years.

 Almost all the councillors TOI spoke to said they performed spectacularly as people’s representatives in the civic body. However, residents complained about lack of civic facilities in their locality, including street lights. 
 
 Kumar Sanjeet, councillor of ward number 34 which falls under the   circle, claimed his was the only ward which did not face the problem of water-logging last monsoon. “Many localities in Kankarbagh were water-logged,” he said, adding he also got street lights installed.
 
 Ward 22 councillor   also said he was satisfied with his work. “My area is from   to Rajapur Pul. I spent maximum funds on construction of approach roads,” he said.
 
 However, residents did not acknowledge the claims. Homemaker Jyotsana Pandey of Boring Canal Road said she never saw any sanitation worker clean her locality, except during festivals. “There is sufficient parking space on Boring Canal Road, but most of it is encroached,” she further complained.
 
 A doctor residing in New Patalipurta Colony complained about the street dogs roaming in her area. “Also, our locality’s roads are in poor shape; there’s not even a single garbage bin anywhere near my house,” she said, but appreciated that street lights were installed in her locality.
 
 Residents of   Path off Boring Road complained of overflowing drains in their locality. “We are in ward 23 that shares borders with ward 22. Whenever we approach the councillor of ward 23, she tells us the drain work will be taken up by ward 22 councillor. Ward 22 councillors says it falls under ward 23,” realtor Rajiv Kumar said, adding the locals were living in unhygienic conditions for nearly a year now.
 
 A resident of ward 44, which falls under the Kankarbagh circle, Bashshar Habibullah, also complained about absence of street lights. “And I don’t remember when did the the municipality workers last do fogging in my locality,” he said.
 
 
