AURANGABAD: With the civic body yet to clear the outstanding   to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited ( ), the city’s   is facing an uncertain future.

 The possibility of power cut at the civic body’s water treatment plant at Jayakwadi cannot be ruled out as the distribution company on Sunday said it will review the situation on Monday.
 
 “The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has not cleared the dues as it promised on Thursday. Thus, we will meet the civic authorities again on Monday and ask them to resolve the issue. However, if they keep buying time, we may take an extreme step and disconnect the power supply,”  , MSEDCL superintendent engineer, said.
 
 However, Fulkar said the company is hopeful that civic authorities would clear the bills in the next two to three days. “The civic authorities recently told us that the AMC would soon receive funds form the state government that would enable them to pay the dues,” he said.
 
 The civic officials recently promised the MSEDCL that it would clear the pending electricity bill within the next two days, but they failed to keep their promise. On Thursday, the municipal authorities managed to avoid disconnection of the power supply to water treatment plants and its main supply system.
 
 It should be noted that the MSEDCL recently served a notice to the AMC, threatening to cut the power supply within 24 hours if the civic body fails to clear the dues. The deadline ended on Wednesday and there were speculations that the power distributor might disconnect the power and eventually disrupt city’s water supply system.
 
 A senior officer in the civic body’s water supply department, on condition of anonymity, said efforts are on to arrange funds.
 
 But considering the slow pace of tax recovery and civic body’s over-dependency on government funding, it seems that the municipal authorities might not be able to pay the dues anytime soon. Besides, the AMC will also have to pay Rs 1 crore to the MSEDCL in the coming week on account of power charges for street lights.
 
 The civic body has to pay over Rs 32 crore to the power distribution company in lieu of power supply to its water supply scheme.
 
