MUMBAI: Back in the seat once again, India's newly-appointed coach   has already gotten busy charting out the roadmap ahead.

 In doing so, the former India allrounder has been given the go ahead to work with the core team of assistant coaches and support staff that he wanted.
 
  president CK Khanna and secretary Amitabh Choudhary; Diana Edulji, member of the Committee of Administrators (CoA), and Board CEO Rahul Johri met with Shastri in Mumbai on Tuesday to give their assent to Shastri's core team, also alongside handing him his new contract that will run until the 2019 ICC World Cup in England.
 
 As TOI had first reported on July 14, 54-year-old   - a former India Test cricketer - has been appointed bowling coach with the senior national team. Arun will join  , who has now been made assistant coach, and R Sridhar who is the fielding coach.
 
 As a result, Arun, who has been national bowling coach between 2014 and 2016, will now have to give up two coaching positions in two separate T20 leagues. Arun will discontinue his stint as bowling coach at Royal Challengers Bangalore and Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) franchise VB Thiruvallur Veerans.
 
 "I was very clear in my mind what my core team will be. What you just heard is my core team," Shastri said on Tuesday, after his meeting with the BCCI office bearers and administrators.
 
  and  , whose names had been 'recommended' to the BCCI by the three-member Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC) comprising  ,   and VVS Laxman, are mere recommendations that ­ in the context of any present-day development, have no relevance.
 
 This has not only been clarified by the Committee of Administrators ­ with Vikram Limaye telling TOI that CAC went beyond their brief in recommending consultants ­ but has also been conveyed to the office-bearers of the Board. Going further, it is Shastri who will decide if the team requires a consultant at any point of time, and a decision will be taken based on the recommendation of the head coach, his core team and captain  . 
 
 "A lot of unnecessary things have been said and done and it's time to put a stop to this. Everybody who matters in this scheme of things knows that the buck stops with Ravi and Virat. Whatever someone outside of this says, as far as the Team India camp is concerned, does not matter," senior BCCI officials revealed on Tuesday evening. 
 
 “I would like to thank the CAC because it is a privilege and an honour to be the head coach of the   and I would like to thank them for thinking I am worthy enough to do the job," Shastri said.
 
 Meanwhile, Australia's Patrick Farhart and Shankar Basu have also been retained as the physiotherapist and physical trainer of the Indian team until the 2019 World Cup.
 
