Gaanyogini Dhondutai Kulkarni’s name is highly revered and respected in the Hindustani classical music circuit and in memory of this doyen, Sangeet Natak Akademi, New Delhi, is hosting a music festival along with Kala Academy, Panaji, from July 21-23. An exponent of Sangeet Samrat ustad Alladiya Khan’s highly famed Jaipur-Atrauli Gharana of Hindustani music, Dhondutai hailed from Kolhapur in Maharashtra. Her father, contrary to prevalent social norms of the time, decided that Dhondutai will learn music. At the time, Kolhapur was a centre of arts under the patronage of the king of Kolhapur, Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj. Dhondutai’s training began at age five under ustad Nathhan Khan. She then trained under ustad Bhurji Khan for 10 years, followed by three years under Gaanchandrika Laxmibai Jadhav. Simultaneously, she trained under ustad Baba Azizuddin Khan Saheb. Both guru’s honed her skill bringing out a depth in her singing. At that time Kesarbai Kerkar was considered Ustad Alladiya Khan’s foremost disciple. She had not accepted any singer as her disciple, although there was a line of aspiring singers wanting to learn under her. Kerkar had a condition. Any disciple she would accept would have to have the resilience and willingness to undertake rigorous training. Azizuddin Khan Saheb coaxed Dhondutai to write to Kesarbai expressing her desire to learn under her.  Much to Dhondutai’s surprise, Kesarbai accepted her as her only disciple and trained her for almost 10 years. Extensive training under four revered gurus of the Jaipur Atrauli Gharana enriched Dhondutai’s music repertoire and she performed all over India in concerts and festivals. Kesarbai was very choosy in selecting concerts for her disciple.  Sangeet Natak Akademi acknowledged her contribution to Hindustani classical music and honoured her in 1990 with the Sangeet Natak Akademi award. Dhondutai remained unmarried as her sole intention was to keep a promise given to her father of establishing herself as one of the doyens of Jaipur Atrauli Gharna of Hindustani classical music.  Dhondutai passed away on June 1, 2014. In her musical career spanning over almost eight decades, she set a unique example for music students, one of dedication and sole devotion to music, sacrificing all pleasures of material life. Dhondutai’s legacy by her disciples some of the prominent one’s being Vasantrao Karnad, Manjutai Modak, Namita Devidayal, Smita Bhagwat, Aditya Khandwe and Rutuja Lad. (The writer is the programme and development officer at Kala Academy Goa, Panaji)