Hold on to the reins in Cody, the rodeo capital of the world. First, rein in your heartbeats, though. In the squat town in Wyoming (USA), you will be torn between a showman, a painter and a rogue. A showman so drop-dead handsome and famous that he was once tagged the ‘most recognisable celebrity on Earth’. A painter who rarely put the paint brush to the canvas – he let the paint drip. And the spunky rogue who robbed banks and ambushed caravans. As if these were not enough heartbreak alibis, there are handsome cowboys who trot into the ring every summer evening with their horses. The horses kick, the cowboys bounce around, the punters bet and evenings meld into night with puffed winners and played-out horses. 

 Cody sits coquettishly close to Yellowstone National Park, but here there are more stories about showman Buffalo Bill, painter Jackson Pollock and rogue Sundance Kid than about Old Faithful, the geyser that faithfully spurts at predictable intervals. Cody borrows its name from the showman William Frederick Cody (1846-1917) – in history and popular culture known as Buffalo Bill. 
 
 
 
 Buffalo Bill was no ordinary man. He was an American scout. A bison hunter. A trapper. A bull whacker. A showman. His Wild West show, a circus-like show about cowboys, horses and the American West toured Europe, Great Britain and the US. Such was the popularity of Bill that even Queen Victoria attended the show in London. In Irma Hotel, built by Bill and named after his daughter, there’s a redwood bar-back that was gifted by Queen Victoria to the master showman. Millions recognised Buffalo Bill in his showman’s boots and Stetson hats who performed for kings, princes, presidents and queens. Mark Twain wrote of him, “It is often said on the other side of the water that none of the exhibitions which we send to   are purely and distinctly American. If you will take the Wild West show over there you can remove that reproach”.
 
 The   of the West is everyone’s first stop in Cody. Tepees and a chuck wagon stand outside the Centre which houses five museums:  ,  , Cody Firearms Museum, Whitney Western Art Museum and Buffalo Bill Museum that chronicles the life of the man and the American West shows that took the world by storm. 
 
 In a town that is still cowboy-ish in its character, the Old Trail Town brings alive the days of the yore. The Town is a restoration of more than 25 historic Western buildings, 100 horse-drawn carriages and artefacts. Desperadoes Kid Curry and Sundance Kid used a hide-out (now in Trail Town) before they robbed a bank in Montana. Another 1883 cabin harks back to a meeting of Butch Cassidy and Sundance Kid. 
 
 
 
 During the summer months, Cody gets horsy. Literally. Calling itself the Rodeo Capital of the World, Cody gets crowded with cowboys, bulls, horses and loads of spectators who gather for the daily rodeo. The Cody Nite Rodeo is an amateur rodeo, but the annual Cody Stampede brings the best cowboys into town. Held between July 1 and 4 every year since 1919, the Stampede is called Cowboy Christmas where the best cowboys and cowgirls ride the best stock and win fat purses. 
 
 In Cody, do not get too caught in the horse’s neigh. Lend a ear to the whispers about a dalliance between the British queen and the dishy Bill. No one confirms the story. But in Cody, the once-upon-a-time Buffalo Bill stories never end.
 
