Kolkata: If Monday’s rain was the trailer, Kolkata witnessed the   supershow on Tuesday when it poured uniformly across the city. Kolkata Municipal Corporation ( ) pressed into service 342 of its 363 pumps — something it did after years — but could not prevent large-scale waterlogging. 

 The timing of Tuesday’s shower compounded the trouble for commuters. It started to rain heavily around 4pm, when many schools got over for the day and professionals started their homebound journey. 
 
 Incessant rain for two successive days reminded residents of Amherst Street and Sukeas Street of the days when civil defence volunteers would evacuate them from their houses and rubber boats would be used to evacuate them. Though it rained over 100 mm over the last two days, residents of these areas were spared this time with the improvement of drainage system over past five years. However, residents of Muktarambabu Street had to bear with pains of prolonged inundation. Rajesh Gupta, a resident of the area left his home for a safer place as his one-storey house got submerged in last 24 hours.
 
 Mahatma Gandhi Road, Bidhan Sarani, Chittaranjan Avenue, Beliaghata, Ultadanga, Manicktala and Kankurgachi remained under knee-deep water for hours. In central Kolkata, officegoers had a harrowing time wading through water as Park Street, Camac Street, Sarat Bose Road, Theatre Road and AJC Bose Road turned into rivulets.
 
 The biggest casualty of Tuesday’s rain, yet again, was rush-hour traffic. Kolkatans on the move were held up traffic trickled along major roads like CR Avenue, MG Road, Strand Road, Theater Road, Alipore Road, DH Road, JL Nehru Road, Ballygunge Circular Road and Amherst Street. The west-bound traffic movement on Maa flyover was shut for a brief period as Park Circus seven-point crossing went under water and failed to bear the traffic pressure. Cars remained stuck on the flyover for hours. 
 
 Sushant Singh, a Delhi resident, who was travelling from the airport to an Alipore hotel, was stuck on Maa flyover for one and a half hours. “I got a taste of Kolkata monsoon right after landing,” he chuckled.
 
 Durnibar Ghosh, who was travelling from   to Wellington, took one hour and 45 minutes to cover 1km between Beliaghata and Wellington. The stretch generally takes less than 10 minutes to cover. In Salt Lake, traffic was held up at several places as uprooted tress blocked busy stretches. App cabs made most the situation and charged way above the normal fare. A ride from Behala to Esplanade, for example, cost Rs 750.
 
 “Almost all thoroughfares were waterlogged and traffic crawled on most roads from 4pm till late in the evening,” a senior officer at the Kolkata Police traffic control room said.
 
 The scene in south Kolkata was somewhat better. Jodhpur Park, Dhakuria, Lake Gardens, New Alipore, Alipore and Kalighat received less rain compared to the north.
 
 Worried over large-scale inundation, mayor   called an emergent meeting on Tuesday evening to discuss ways to combat flooding in case of a fresh downpour. Chatterjee claimed that though the pumps in civic body’s pumping stations functioned well, plastic materials chocked the drainage lines and caused waterlogging. “We are worried about the plastic menace that has done enough damage to our drainage system,” Chatterjee said.
 
