AMRITSAR: Indian fishermen, who were released from the   on Monday, stated that merely a day and a half spent with the volunteers of   on way from   helped them forget years of agonizing and strenuous captivity. 

 “Despite bitterness in the relations between India and Pakistan, we help Indian fishermen as they are innocent workers and not criminals. They had set out for fishing in high seas to arrange two square meal for their family,” managing trustee of Edhi Foundation Faisal Edhi told TOI over phone from Karachi on Tuesday. He said during a short period their volunteers did their best to make the hapless fishermen forget the hard times they had spent in jail.
 
 Faisal’s son Saad Edhi had received 78 Indian fishermen at the Karachi Cantonment railway station on July 9 after they were released by Pakistan government on completion of their jail sentences. All of them were held by Pakistan maritime security agency for trespassing into their territorial waters while fishing in the sea.
 
 Faisal informed that after receiving them from Karachi jail authorities, each one of them was given Pakistani Rs 5,000 in cash, clothes and toys for their children besides buying them Rs 3,000 ticket from Karachi to Lahore from where they were taken to Wagah border in buses for repatriation. “We had booked a full bogey for Indian fishermen since there were no tickets available for the required date,” he said.
 
 Faisal commenting on the treatment meted out to the victims said, “These people are not criminals, they are hard workers. It is shame to put them behind bars for all these years for accidentally trespassing the territorial waters.”
 
 Expressing concern about the confiscated items like boats and fishing nets of fishermen by both India and Pakistan, Edhi appealed to both nations to immediately return them to their owners. “A boat and fishing net costs fortune. No government has right to seize these,” he said.
 
 Karsan, one of the freed Indian fishermen, while talking to TOI before boarding a train on Tuesday said, “I may forget the time spent in jail but not the love and affection shown by Edhi Foundation volunteers. They didn’t know us and yet they gave all of us Rs 5,000 each, along with gifts. It’s their generosity,” he said.
 
 Another Indian prisoner Kanji said for a minute they were scared after being handed over to some unknown persons but were rather in for a surprise when they were given eatables, cash and gifts. “I wish government of both the nations also behave like the volunteers of Edhi Foundation.”
 
 
