KOLKATA: Kanyashree  , the   government’s flagship cash-transfer scheme aimed at checking child marriage in Bengal that was awarded the  , is all set to make its debut on the Bengali folk-theatre stage. In a fortnight's time, Digbijoyi Opera will unveil their new ‘jatra pala’ titled ‘Kanyashreer Joware Biswajoyee Mamata’. While the Bengal chief minister has earlier been portrayed on the jatra stage, this is the first time a jatra is going to highlight her UN award for this project.

 Director Kartik Samanta had staged a jatra titled ‘Maa Maati Manush’ that traced how Banerjee had come to power. The next attempt was ‘Mahasangrame Joyi Mamata’. "This is the first time we are going to have someone play Narendra Modi. However, that casting hasn’t been decided yet,” Samanta says. 
 
 The screenplay of this ambitious production is now being written and if the director is to be believed, the rift between the prime minister Narendra Modi and Bengal’s CM will also be highlighted there. That obviously means it will have scenes showing the clash over demonetisation. As for the Netherlands portion, Banerjee will be shown giving a speech. 
 
 To pack in more punch to his production, Samanta will show the CM alighting from an air craft in Kolkata that flies her back from the Netherlands. “We have created an aluminium plane for this purpose. The budget for the jatra is approximately Rs 1.5 lakh and has 150 members in the cast and crew who need seven cars to travel across the length and breath of the state,” Samanta says. Bookings for the jatra that is expected to being performances during Kali Puja have already started coming in though the production house is now busy with two other plays - 'Kurukhetro Kandchhe' and 'Krishna Sokhi Draupadi'.
 
 Banerjee apart, the jatra will also have other important Trinamool leaders including Aroop Biswas, Goutam Deb, Subhendu Adhikari and Partha Chatterjee. “The Gorkhaland issue will also touched upon and we will highlight how the CM has insisted that she will not let Bengal get divided. Dialogues are being written to demonstrate how the Kanyashree Prokalpa came much before the Centre’s Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao campaign,” the director says.
 
 Besides, he also claims to be keen on showing how the Centre isn’t giving enough funds to help our CM’s development plans for Bengal. “The stage will show two power centres – one in Delhi and the other in Kolkata. Our art director has designed television sets that will air speeches given by Bengal’s CM and prime minister. We might also have a character like that of Dilip Ghosh who often makes controversial comments. There will be some characters with Left leanings. But we won’t highlight them,” the director says.
 
 Essaying the role of the chief minister in the play is jatra actress Dipa Ghosh. In 2013, she had played the lead role in a jatra titled ‘Ekaler Durga’. But that was for a different production house called Natya Company. This year, she has been approached by Digbijoyi Opera to essay the lead role. “In ‘Ekaler Durga’, my character was written keeping Mamata Banerjee in mind. I have been following didi for all the years. What I like most about her is the fact that she is a straight talker. What you see is what you get,” Roy says.
 
 Samanta is also planning to ask the CM to watch this jatra. “When we had done ‘Maa Mati Manush’, many political leaders had said we must show it to the CM. This time around, we will make sure that our jatra reaches didi’s eye,” the director signs off.
 
