When British tennis player Heather Watson blamed her first-round loss in the 2015 Australian Open to  , she tiptoed into unchartered territory. 

 “I think it's just one of these things that I have, girl things,” she had said. 
 
 Her admission met with several hushed tones, most oozing disapproval.
 
 Two years later and many countries away, not much has changed. Menstruation and   are seldom mentioned in the same breath, period (quite literally!). In India as well globally, female sports persons are silent sufferers of the vagaries of Mother Nature in the form of menstruation. 
 
 What makes it worse is the lack, sometimes complete lack, of awareness to deal with the ‘side-effects’ associated with the natural phenomenon. 
 
 Most sportswomen can tell you a thing or two about that dreaded moment when they sense the call of the red tide. 
 
 “The first instinct is to freak out. Then you rush to your bag or coach or a senior for a sanitary napkin,” said national-level   player Vaibhavi Swaroop. 
 
 Most players admit that their performance is affected by periods and the symptoms associated or by pre-menstrual syndrome (PMS). 
 
 Khyati Sahni, 19, who has represented Lucknow in many national-level athletic tournaments, says, “Obviously, your performance is affected, but do you have a choice? Any national-level player preparing for tournaments like Asian Games is not going to risk her hard work for a few hours of discomfort.”
 
 Such is the adrenaline rush and their passion for the sport that players willingly ignore their discomfort for the sake of their performance. However, given the difference in bodies, not everyone is able to forget about the condition and perform.
 
 A rather ignored aspect of the issue is the advantage male players have over female players. Varsha Pandey, a national-level volleyball player, says, “If you are menstruating, your performance is affected. There are many girls who are even unable to stand, but you can’t rest for an indefinite period. In volleyball, we have substitute players so you can send one of those, but you have to play in the next match. For males, there are no such issues.”
 
 Away from their homes, for these players, their coaches are their go-to-person during tournaments. However, when it’s “that time of the month” having a male coach can make things a bit difficult. 
 
 “I am not saying that all male coaches are ignorant, but there are many who don’t take you on the team. Besides, girls are not very comfortable taking such problems to a male coach,” says Pandey. 
 
 A hockey coach at KD Singh Babu Stadium, Neelam Siddiqui says that male coaches are unable to gauge the mindset of girls and often even scold girls for slacking.
 
 Sushma Awasthi, a judo coach at Sports Authority of India, says it helps to have a female coach as she is prepared for emergency situations. “I recall an incident when during a tournament a girl had her period and her trouser was badly stained. I took the girl aside and gave her a sanitary napkin. The surprising part was that the male coach was clueless about the girl’s condition though he was married,” says Awasthi. 
 
 For swimmers, the problem assumes more significance because they can’t back out once they dive in the pool. 
 
 “I know coaches who ask a girl to go ahead and perform despite knowing that she is on her period. They also know very well how unhealthy it is for everyone’s hygiene and the sportswoman herself,” says a national-level swimmer, on condition of anonymity.
 
 Female sportspersons sometimes even resort to medicines to delay their   cycle. Effective as they are, the action is considered an unfavourable option as it may cause health complications in the future.
 
 Regional sports officer, Lucknow, Shyam Sunder Mishra, says, “I know there is a lack of awareness about the issue. However, it is never too late to start something good so that more people understand how to make it better for sportswomen.” 
 
 Incidentally, the officer never mentioned the word ‘menstruation’ or ‘period’ during his six-minute conversation with this reporter.
 
