VISAKHAPATNAM: Upbeat about the latest rank as the cleanest station in India, citizens and railway officials said there is scope to develop the station further and ensure better passenger facilities. 

 Vizagite V Kiran said, “It’s good news to regular railway passengers like me. I congratulate the railway team, but suggest the authorities keep up the rank with regular maintenance.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, G  , divisional commercial manager of Waltair division of East Coast Railway (ECoR), said Vizag station moved from the 42nd rank in 2016 to the first in A1 category. 
 
 “We will have to keep certain things in mind to improve the station like covering the apron sheet of the railway tracks on all eight platforms, making footpaths with tiles and improving dormitories, plantation and gardening and augmentation of CC camera surveillance for sanitation besides raising awareness among the passengers about the importance of the cleanliness at the railway station,” he said. 
 
 With 853 marks out of total 1,000 in all parameters, the city railway station topped the charts as the cleanest among 75 A1 category stations and second among 407 railway stations in the ‘Swachh Rail’ campaign. 
 
 Vizag got 323 marks in citizen feedback category, 284 in direct observation and 246 in process audit. Vijayawada ranked fourth, while   ranked second in the A1 category.
 
 A third party agency carried out the survey for the   and visited the station on April 4. 
 
 Toilets at platforms, tracks and dustbins were some of the criteria for judging railway stations for cleanliness. The survey was carried out in 407 stations, including 75 A1 category and 332 A category. Beas railway station was rated the cleanest in the A category. There are 8,000 stations in India classified into seven categories - A1, A, B, C, D, E and F based on their annual passenger revenue. A1 station contributes more than Rs 50 crore a year in passenger revenue, A category stations contribute between Rs 6 crore and Rs 50 crore.
 
