PATNA: Patna University ( ) girls once again outsmarted boys by bagging 68 out of the 81 gold medals awarded to the toppers of undergraduate honours examinations of 2016 and 2017 at the university’s 101st foundation day function at Wheeler Senate House here on Sunday. Altogether 38 of the girl toppers were from Patna Women’s College.

 Awarding the gold medals to the toppers, state energy minister Vijendra Prasad Yadav and PU vice-chancellor (VC) Ras Bihari Prasad Singh recalled the glorious past of the university and called upon the students to take inspiration from it. “Students must remain disciplined in every walk of life and help ensure creating a better society. The brilliant alumni of this seventh oldest university of the country are occupying topmost positions in almost all institutions of the world and the present day scholars must follow this glorious tradition,” he said.
 
 The VC pointed out that Magadh Mahila College girls claimed 11 gold medals, Patna Science College students got nine and Patna College and B N College students had five each. The Directorate of Distance Education (DDE), which stands derecognized by the Distance Education Bureau for the last one year, showed somewhat better performance as its students bagged altogether eight gold medals.
 
 The gold medallists of 2016 batch (conventional courses) include Divya (Hindi), Mamta Prasad English), Sneha Kumari (Sanskrit), Md Afaque Alam (Urdu), Pankaj Kumar (Maithili), Priyadarshini (philosophy), Md Jawaid (Arabic), Sadia Sultana (Persian), Kanchan Kumari (music), Somya Agrawal and Sushant Raj (history), Puja Krishna (sociology), Rachna Kashyap (political science), Nilesh Pandey (economics), Rabiya Fatima (psychology), Laxmi Raj (geography), Swati Anand (ancient Indian history & archaeology), Puja Kumari (home science), Priya Kumari (mathematics), Akanksha Kumari (statistics), Khusboo Kumari (physics), Neha Ashique (chemistry), Shakshi Kumari (botany), Roseleena Minz (zoology), Adila Ali (geology), Radha Tulsyan (mathematics), Maria Samreen (statistics), Ankita Singh (commerce), Tanwi Tejaswita (law), Shampy Srikrishna (library & information science) and Prachi Jain (fine arts). 
 
 Besides, the students who are awarded gold medals in vocational courses include Ankita Singh (advertising and sales management), Shumaila Bano (biotechnology), Priyanshu Priya (computer applications), Abhinav Anshu (computer applications), Sanskriti Shah (BBA), Shaista Shamim (communicative English), Khubru Naseem (environmental science), Prashant Kumar (functional English), Alankrita Rani (industrial microbiology) and Ritika (mass communications).
 
 The gold medallists of 2017 batch (conventional courses) are Dipti Arya (Hindi), Rimjhim Kumari (English), Kajal Kumari (Sanskrit), Halima Sadiya (Urdu), Megha Madhuri (Maithili), Anjali Kumari (philosophy), Rashmi Kumari (music), Devika Suraksha (history), Sourav Kumar (sociology), Shubha Shah and Kumari Shashi Bala (political science), Navjyoti Mishra (economics), Priya Ray (psychology), Riya Singh (geography), Jamila Chawala (home science), Jaya Kumari (mathematics), Deepak Kumar (statistics), Akanksha Srivastava (physics), Abhishekk Kumar (chemistry), Anjali Kumari (botany), Awantika Dilip Kumar (zoology), Rahul Raj (geology), Rahul Kumar Trivedi (mathematics), Prince Kumar (statistics), Aahna Singh (commerce), Rakesh Kumar (law), Soni Kumari (library & information science) and Pratibha Jamuar (fine arts).
 
 Besides, the students who are awarded gold medals in vocational courses (2017 batch) include Noor Fatma (advertising and sales management), Farzana Naushin (biotechnology), Chanda Rani (BSc in computer applications), Alpi Prakash (BA in computer applications), Ayushi Sinha (BBA), Kaveri Priyambada (communicative English), Rakshita Kumari (environmental science), Ishika Sinha (functional English), Priya Rani (industrial microbiology), Pratikha Jha (mass communications) and Raishamaa Raj (social work).
 
 At the outset, PU pro-VC Dolly Sinha welcomed the guests. Patna Science College geology department head Atul Aditya Pandey conducted the programme. PU registrar Rabindra Kumar proposed a vote of thanks.
 
 Most of the toppers were accompanied by their parents and guardians at the venue. The function was attended by university officials, faculty members, non-teaching employees besides a large number of students.
 
 
