NEW DELHI: Finance minister Arun   took a sharp dig at   saying that while PM   is thinking of a modern, technology-oriented cleaner economy, the Congress leader is only considering how to disrupt the next session of  .

 The PM wants a clean-up of political funding but his opponents want a cash-dominated, “cash generating and cash exchange system” to continue. “The difference between the PM and Rahul is clear — the PM is thinking of the next generation while Rahul Gandhi was only looking at how to disrupt the next session of Parliament,” Jaitley wrote in a blog.
 
 The sharp and somewhat disparaging attack on Rahul signals that the political heat is only likely to rise with the announcement of assembly polls which are being seen as a referendum of sorts on demonetisation. Jaitley asserted that   has displayed “courage and stamina” in implementing the decision.
 
 Modi and   have pitched demonetisation as a major issue in the elections in UP, Punjab, Manipur, Goa and Uttarakhand and this had raised the stakes for the NDA. Jaitley’s comments seem part of an exercise to counter the opposition narrative that demonetisation jammed the economy.
 
 The PM, Jaitley said is seeking to create a “new normal” in place of undertaking transactions partly in cash and partly in cheque. “Pucca and Kachha” accounts are a part of the business language. Tax evasion has been considered as neither unethical nor immoral. It was just a way of life,” he said. Jaitley said the opposition’s gloomy predictions have been disproved.
 
 “Their exaggerated claims on the disruption of the economy have proved wrong. It is a tragedy that a national party like Congress decided to adopt a political position, opposing both technology, change and reforms,” he said.
 
 Admitting that demonetisation was disruptive, he said this was the nature of most important reforms and added that the opposition had chosen to side with black money friendly status quo. “Opinion polls conducted by independent media organisations have shown that an overwhelmingly large percentage of people have supported the government’s decision,” Jaitley said.
 
 The minister claimed that the size of the GDP would grow as lakhs or crores of loose currency floating around the market is now in the banking system. “Money entering into the banking system and officially transacted would give an ample scope for higher taxation — both direct and indirect,” Jaitley said.
 
