GOA:   is a bustling hive of activity, where hundreds of traders, merchants and shop owners converge every morning to earn their daily living. Trade here starts as early as 5am and goes on well into the late hours of the evening. Obviously then,   play a vital role in keeping this trading eco-system alive and kicking. 

 While the place boasts numerous eateries, there are some that have become ingrained in the DNA of the market and have instant recall value. One of these is  .
 
 The present premises, which is in proximity to the Mapusa bus stand, is as old as the new Mapusa market itself. The eatery, however, originated in 1934, when the market was located near Alankar theatre. Cafe Corner was started by  , who died within just six months of initiating the business. It was then taken over by his brother, Atmaram.
 
 Reins were subsequently passed down to the second generation; Hanumant (Mahadev’s son) and his cousins, Shankar and Tulshidas (Atmaram’s sons). Today, the business is in the capable hands of the third generation, Hanumant’s son, Kiran and Salil. While Kiran looks after the family’s agro-tourism business that they branched out into recently, Salil looks after day-to-day functioning of Cafe Corner.
 
 There is a buzz in the eatery right right from 7am, when it opens for customers, till it downs its shutters at 8pm. Preparations though, start as early as 5am. “If we do not start that early we will not be in a position to begin service at 7am,” Salil says.
 
 Serving a variety of Goan and South Indian snacks and tea and coffee, there is barely a dull moment or an empty seat at Cafe Corner. “Some people come in only for the tea we serve. It is like their daily fix,” says Kiran. 
 
 Their main clientele, Salil says, are the daily vendors who often have just enough time to pop in for a quick plate of bhaji-pao, or samosas, or some South Indian fare and a steaming hot cup of tea.
 
 The eatery is open through the week, except Sundays. The only time it takes a ‘long break’ is during the 11-day Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. After the customary one-and-a-half-day veneration of Lord Ganesha, Salil takes off for his annual holiday. “Our popularity is evident from the fact that people can often be heard enquiring about when the joint will reopen,” Kiran says.
 
 Cafe Corner is famed for its biya bhaji, samosas and chakris. “Such is the popularity of the chakris that people even parcel them and take them abroad,” says Salil. Ask him about what makes the eatery such a hit, and he attributes it to two crucial factors: the quality of the products offered and the focus on keeping the price range reasonable. “We serve basic food that can cater to the most minimum budget. A simple meal of a bhaji with two pao can fill the stomach of a poor person. And nothing spells success better than a satisfied customer. This is what has ensured an enduring relationship between us and our customers,” Salil concludes.
 
