The popular sitcom will return as a web series with many of the original actors, but will take a seven-year leap.
 
  After a hiatus of over a decade the popular comedy show,  , is set to return as a web series with its original cast, including  ,  ,  ,   and Rajesh Kumar. Shooting will start by the month-end.
  
  “After the show wrapped up, all of us, including the actors, got busy with other commitments. However, at every public event and even at private functions in the last 10 years, I was always asked when Sarabhai vs Sarabhai was returning. It was public demand which finally compelled us to set aside everything else and concentrate on developing a quality script which lives up to the audience’s expectations. Shooting will continue all through April. We we are targeting a May release,” informs actor-producer-director Jamnadas Majethia.
  
  
 
  
  The sitcom revolved around a quintessential upper-class Gujarati family in SoBo, with the older son and his wife living in the apartment across the hallway from the parents and their younger son.
  
  The ensuing conflict and comedy derived from the interactions between the ma-in-law and her bahu, the prankster father and his poetry-sprouting younger son, exposing class differences. The idea of bringing back the show came up last year at Satish Shah’s belated 65th birthday bash and was met with a general consensus that it should return on the digital platform as none of those associated with the show wanted a never-ending TV series and agreed that a shorter term online version was a better idea. Satish played the Narad Muni-like father always picking on mamma’s boy Roshesh.
  
  Sarabhai vs Sarabhai, which started airing in 2004, had acquired a cult following. In the final episode, the main characters had announced that they would be back with another season. In 2012, director Deven Bhojani denied this. It’s taken another five years for impatient fans to be appeased.
  
  The sitcom will now take a seven-year leap with the actors’ looks changing with the times. But Majethia promises not to change anything people have loved in the past.
  
  They will also be introducing some new characters. Writer Aatish Kapadia has spent three months on the script and will be co-directing the series with Deven.
  
  They have already had two readings and look tests with the entire cast last month. “Alim Hakim tried a new hairstyle with Rajesh last month. We’ll be meeting for readings again closer to the shoot,” concludes Majethia.
