NEW DELHI: In a big relief to lakhs of home buyers who have been opposing dilution of   regulation norms by state governments, particularly to exempt incomplete projects, the Centre has said rules and regulations cannot be in violation of the provisions of Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA). It has also cautioned states that any such dilution may face legal challenge. 

 “It is a settled law that subordinate legislation such as rules, regulations, schemes etc cannot be in violation of the provisions of the principal Act and any such provision inserted in the rules will be open to legal challenge and liable to be struck down by the courts,” minister of state for housing Rao Inderjit Singh said in a letter to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Haryana has diluted norms in its draft rules to keep most incomplete projects out of the ambit of RERA. Rao is the MP from Gurgaon.
 
 “This has been the stand of the housing ministry and we have appealed to every state to frame their rules in sync with the Act and they can follow the rules that the ministry has notified for Union Territories without legislatures,” said a ministry official.
 
 While Gujarat has kept all housing projects launched before November 2016 out of RERA’s ambit, states including Haryana,  , Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh have incorporated provisions to give complete relief to incomplete projects. Sources said UP and Karnataka are going to amend their rules to bring all incomplete projects under regulation.
 
 Rao also suggested that since the Act clearly defined terms such as carpet area, flats, ongoing project, disclosures to be submitted by builders and specified penalty for offences by builders, states should stay away from defining them further, which may create more confusion and lead to interpretational difficulties and litigation.
 
 Home buyers associations have been demanding that states follow the rules notified by the housing ministry. “Why can’t states follow them rather than coming up with versions that make consumers feel that the governments are more keen to protect interest of builders. The primary objective of the law was to bring relief to people who have paid and are waiting for years to get their houses,” said   of Fight for RERA, a pan-India organisation of flat buyers.
 
