NEW DELHI: Staff shortage looms large over Delhi University colleges. While the premier government institution has failed to appoint over 4,500 teachers in the past five years, the problem is going to become worse as over 42% colleges are currently   and the numbers are going to rise as superannuation of more   is on the anvil next month.

 Teachers claim that the biggest casualty has been governance and decision making at the colleges. Many see the non-appointment of permanent principals by the previous   a ploy to run the colleges at their whims and fancies.
 
 Of the 66 colleges, 28, including Hans Raj and Hindu, have been running via officiating principals for over five years. Top colleges like   (SRCC) and Kirori Mal (KMC) too don’t have permanent principals.
 
 The permanent principal of SRCC, P C Jain, superannuated in October 2014. The principal’s post in Hans Raj fell vacant in 2009 with the superannuation of S R Arora, while Hindu has been under an officiating principal since 2008. The governing bodies of Hindu and SRCC had sent names for appointment of new principals in December 2016, but the   administration is yet to approve them.
 
 Former principals believe that there has been total callousness and indifference on the part of the university administration.
 
 P C Jain said, “Vested interests have prompted non-appointment of permanent principals. Thousands of teachers have long been protesting for the appointments, yet no action has been taken. We want to create centres of excellence, yet the institutions have been running headless for the past 4-5 years. Is this the way to run educational institutions in the country?”
 
 Slamming the university administration, colleges and other authorities, Jain said, “There is so much of callousness and complacency. It’s shocking that people sitting at responsible positions are not responding to the requirements. If this can happen at DU, think about the fate of other institutions.”
 
 “The biggest casualty in such a situation is governance and decision making,” said Rudrashish Chakraborty, an English teacher with KMC.
 
 Most the posts fell vacant during the tenure of the previous administration. “It is a ploy to not fill up the posts so that the DU administration can dictate terms into the functioning of the colleges, including appointments,” said Abha D Habib, DU executive council member.
 
 Assuring that the matter would be taken up on priority, DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi said, “This major issue has been taken up by the administration on priority. We will fill up all the positions soon.”
 
 
