NAGPUR: A case of an   took an intriguing turn when the 13-year-old daughter of a deceased woman landed up at the   claiming that her mother was killed by her father by administering poison. 

 Following the statement of Manisha (name changed), the   on Wednesday arrested her father Radheshyam holding him responsible for his wife Rekha’s death. Radheshyam has a case of cheating against him registered in 2015 by the Kalamna police.
 
 It has come to fore that Radheshyam’s friendship with girls on social networking sites had led to tension between the couple. There had been several exchange of messages between Radheshyam and other women which Rekha and Manisha had spotted in his mobile phone. Radheshyam used to frequently change the password of his mobile phone.
 
 Rekha, who had consumed sev puri brought by her husband, had collapsed within 15 minutes at the family’s rented apartment at Garoba Maidan on January 2 this year. Manisha claims that her father poisoned the sev puri before serving it to her mother. 
 
 Police, who are baffled by Manisha coming forward to speak now, have procured a three-day remand custody of Radheshyam on Thursday. 
 
 Police said the family shifted to the city in 2002 from Indore. Radheshyam worked with a private transporter till 2012 before shifting to another. Rekha supplemented the family’s income by taking tuitions at her place between 4 and 8pm. 
 
 On the day of the incident, Rekha wanted to change a Rs2,000 note after finishing tuitions. She had given the note to Manisha and asked her to seek Radheshyam’s help. Radheshyam asked Manisha and her nine-year-old brother Ayush to come along with him to Chhapru Nagar Chowk to eat sev puri and paani puri.
 
 After the siblings enjoyed paani puri, Radheshyam asked the vendor to keep a parcel of sev puri ready, which he was to collect later. Radheshyam dropped his children home and returned to the vendor to collect the parcel.
 
 After coming home, he asked Manisha to serve the sev puri to Rekha. Manisha told police that her mother consumed the sev puri while she was teaching the students. Soon she fell ill and was declared dead at Mayo Hospital. 
 
 The Lakadganj police had registered an accidental death case. When the post mortem report was released on February 15, the cops were shocked to learn that death was due to poisoning.
 
 Manisha, who had gone to reside with a maternal aunt in Thane, was summoned to the police station. In the meanwhile, police tried to get a quick report from the regional forensic   but could not. Following a sustained pressure from Rekha’s family, the police registered the case as murder taking Manisha’s complaint. 
 
