BENGALURU: In the wake of the recent cases of molestation, the government announced that 5,000 CCTV cameras will be installed at sensitive locations. But there has been no word on strengthening the monitoring capability of police. 

 While it’ll take a few years for the city to get all 5,000 cameras, at least 550 will be installed in two months, taking the total number to 1,000. With even BBMP and   installing cameras, cops are now mulling decentralizing the monitoring process.
 
 An 80-foot wide video wall in the   (TMC) monitors live feed from CCTV cameras. A similar one is functional at the command centre. But even these gigantic walls won’t be enough once the number of cameras increases. Also, at the TMC, the focus is on traffic management. A room where footage can be monitored on a large scale was planned by the state police headquarters but the proposal is in cold storage.
 
 According to police, CCTV footage is crucial to crime investigation nowadays. “If you look at recent cases, CCTV footage has been the single most important piece of evidence. With more cameras tracking streets, we have better chances of cracking cases,” a senior police officer said.
 
 Asked about the role of surveillance cameras in crime prevention, the officer said even though monitoring takes place centrally, police stations too are assigned a role. “The feed from CCTV cameras is sent to police stations too. We are asking police stations to monitor the feed, especially in cases of chain-snatching and harassment of women,” the officer added.
 
 However, cost is a major concern when it comes to monitoring live feed from private CCTV cameras and other organizations. “The lack of manpower is also a problem. For the current CCTV network, we spend Rs 10 crore to rent the fiber cable which is used to send the feed. Availing private feed would only escalate the cost,” he added. 
 
 Overlapping will be avoided
 
 CCTV cameras were first used by traffic police. A senior police officer said the difference between a CCTV camera used to monitor traffic and law and order has reduced in recent times. But CCTV cameras are mostly installed at prominent junctions. “With more and more cameras available, surveillance cameras will not be location-specific. They will be installed with a focus on the area they cover. Overlapping will be avoided. We have already chalked out an elaborate map for the installation of CCTV cameras,” a senior police officer said. 
 
