VISAKHAPATNAM: The gunning down of cloth   in Parvathipuram and a recent bid to bump off a chitfund businessman in Bobbili point to a growing rise in the use of firearms to scare people. Unlike a few years ago when firearms were used by goons only in big cities like Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam, the   is slowly but surely spreading into smaller towns in north coastal Andhra.

 Corroborating this, Vizianagaram SP Polaraju told TOI, “This is disturbing. The latest incident could be a fall-out of business rivalry. But, the fact that pistols, whether country-made or expensive, are being used to settle personal scores concerns me a lot.”
 
 Both Parvathipuram and Bobbili are small towns with a combined population of 1.3 lakhs. Shockingly, there have been two incidents of shootings reported in the towns in a short span of six months. A senior cop with the Vizianagaram district police says, “Earlier, brandishing pistols and deadly firearms was restricted to urban areas and metro cities. Now, this gun culture is spreading far and wide, even to the rural hinterland.” 
 
 The cops, however, hastened to add that gun-related violence was prevalent in the interior Agency mandals of the north coastal region as a result of the Maoist conflict.
 
 Differentiating between Maoist violence and violence associated linked to money matters between business rivals, the senior officials say the recent trend has shown an increasing presence of gangs or individuals from Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand indulging in such violence. The main accused in the Bobbili shootout case was Keshav, who shot the chitfund businessman Jaganmohan Rao, was a native of Cuttack. 
 
 In Saturday’s Parvathipuram case, cops are not ruling out the hand of a gang from across the border. Circle inspector G Rambabu said the way it was carried out indicates that this job was done by professionals with expertise. They could be gangsters from across the border.”
 
 Rahul Dev Sharma, Visakhapatnam rural SP, points out, “The whole region shares a border with a major city like Vizag.” Even in Visakhapatnam, the trend started a decade ago with the murder of a railway scrap contractor Satyanarayana back in 2007 and the bank robbery in Visalakshinagar in 2008.
 
 From then onwards, gun-toting goons have become regulars in Visakhapatnam, which has seen immense growth in the industrial sector. However, experts are baffled by the fact that such incidents are becoming common even in places such as Bobbili and Parvathipuram. Sources in the Vizianagaram police department blame it on the nexus between the inter-state gangs, ganja smugglers and illegal arms traders in the vulnerable border areas which could be responsible for such  
 
