BEIJING: In a rare appearance in military uniform as the chairman of the Central Military Commission, Chinese President   told a large gathering of troops that the People’s Liberation Army was capable of defeating any intruder.

 “I firmly believe that our heroic PLA has the confidence and capability to defeat any intruder,” Xi said, without mentioning China’s ongoing threats that include the border standoff with India at the Doklam plateau and the latest missile launch by its neighbour,  .
 
 “The world is far from tranquil and peace needs to be safeguarded,” Xi said, ahead of the 90th anniversary of the PLA, at Zhurihe training base in China’s Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region on Sunday. Today, we are closer than ever to the goal of the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation. And more than any time in history we need to build strong armed forces of the people,” Xi said.
 
 “Our heroic PLA has the confidence and capability to safeguard the nation’s sovereignty, security and development interests,” he asserted.
 
 Speaking soon after China established its first military base on foreign soil, Djibouti, on the Horn of Africa, the Chinese president indicated that the country plans to expand the PLA’s international role. Beijing is also investing heavily in the   which has military connotations.
 
 The Zhurihe military base covers more than 1,000 sq km and the parade displayed J-20, China’s newest generation stealth fighter, that could possibly rival the F-22 or F-25 with the US military.
 
 The PLA also displayed its nuclear warhead-capable DF-31AG mobile intercontinental ballistic missile, an upgraded version of the DF-31A introduced in 2009. State TV declared these to be “symbols of a major power”.
 
 Xi did not respond to US President Donald Trump’s complaints that China has not done enough to constrain its close ally, North Korea. 
 
 More than a hundred planes flew past and displayed of almost 600 types of weaponry, nearly half of which were making their debut in public, according to the defence ministry.
 
