PANAJI: The five-member fact finding team comprising members of the Archdiocese of Goa and Daman’s council for social justice and peace and the centre for study of society and secularism have requested for a judicial commission to investigate the   to ensure transparency and have stated that Francis Pereira’s arrest was made to pacify the public.

 The team has also refuted the theory of Goa Police that   single-handedly desecrated and vandalized 140-odd religious symbols over the past five years.
 
 ‘The team strongly feels that the arrest appears as a familiar script to similar crimes across the country to pacify civil society and the affected communities and divert attention from the actual perpetrators. The extensive damage caused as witnessed by the fact-finding team could not have been inflicted by a single person, moreover one who is 50 years old. The team demands an impartial investigation into the crimes,’ it stated in a pressnote.
 
 The team recommended that strict action, in accordance with law, be taken against individuals/ organizations indulging in hate campaigns against minorities in Goa and those responsible for desecration and vandalism. During their field visits on Friday and Saturday, the team found that ‘the general perception of the community pointed to certain statements at a Hindu conclave and during the visit of a national office-bearer of the party in government as possibly encouraging such incidents’.
 
 The team arrived at the conclusion that the atmosphere in Goa is vitiated and communalized to cause polarization through relentless anti-minority narrative and stated that the desecrations were carried out in a form of a campaign to strike fear, insecurity and mistrust among communities in Goa. 
 
 They recommended that strict action be taken in accordance with law against individuals and organisations indulging in hate campaigns against minorities in Goa and those responsible for desecration and vandalism.
 
 “Most of the desecrated crosses visited have been targeted more than once in the past, more particularly hinged around political developments in the state. The helplessness and fear prevalent in the Christian community is giving rise to a feeling of being treated as second class citizens,” it further stated.
 
 
