JAIPUR: The   (JSML) will install air and water quality monitoring systems at many points in the city under the   project.

 While the real-time air pollution monitoring system has already been installed in three locations, the water quality monitoring system will be set up at 56 locations across the city by June 2017.
 
 The air pollution system monitors and displays air pollution parameters, including oxides of sulphur and nitrogen, besides providing wind velocity and live temperatures, an official said.
 
 The levels of particulate matter suspended in air, i.e. PM10 as well as PM2.5, will also been monitored by the system. The existing sites were chosen after a team of officials from the   (RSPCB) carried out an inspection. More sites will be identified in the city. “These systems will be connected to our centre for real-time monitoring. It will provide us with different zone identifications of air quality in a particular area,” said an UDH official.
 
 Sandesh Nayak , chief executive officer, JSML, apprised the new UDH minister, Srichand Kriplani, on the online water quality monitoring system at the introductory meeting on smart city projects.
 
 He said that tenders for the project would be invited by March 15 and work completed by June 2017.
 
 The UDH minister and city mayor was also informed that under the area-based development, an area of 650 acres of the   (or old city), between   and Jorawar Singh Gate, has been identified for retrofitting. Modern infrastructure that has been missing in the old city will be developed now.
 
 It was further informed that tenders for seven smart city projects, including smart mobility and passenger information system, smart Krishna trails with ‘swadesh darshan’, restoration of heritage buildings as smart buildings, rejuvenation of traditional ‘bawdis’, development of automated solid waste collection system, 24X7 water supply with smart metering, will be floated in three months.
 
 Taking the smart city work forward, JSML has also invited tenders worth approximately Rs 270 crore for major projects. “To carry out civil construction work on the smart road, JSML has invited tenders worth Rs 167 crore, while for developing the smart multi-level car parking at Anaj Mandi, tenders for Rs 30 crore have been invited,” said Nayak.
 
 At the meeting, attended by many public representatives, including city mayor Ashok Lahoti and MP Ram Charan Bohra, it was also decided to hold group discussions on these projects every two months.
 
 Public representatives also proposed inclusion of Chandpole and ghat area under the project. However, the idea was turned down.
 
