A sprawling house near Joggers Park in Vasant Kunj Colony attracted the Singh family to up root from their rented house in Jankipuram, where they had spent 10 years.

 “We found the location was booming in terms of property and constructed a house where we shifted in 2013. But things have not been that smooth,“ said Dr   about her new abode which comes under  .
 
 Apart from connectivity issues and lack of public transport, Kanchan is among thousands of people who stay in Lucknow West under constant fear. House break-ins and thefts are very common in developing colonies across IIM Bypass Road and Ring Road. After a spree of burglaries, Kanchan's husband wrote to the district administration to apply for a firearms licence in July last year.
 
 “Some criminals had fired before escaping from the colony after a robbery attempt was foiled. My daughters did not sleep that night,“ said Kanchan.
 
 Though five candidates vying to get elected as MLA from Lucknow West have knocked on Kanchan's door in the past four days, nobody was vocal about security concerns.
 
 “I had to ask them whether they would ensure that a police outpost comes up near the colony,“ said Kanchan.
 
 Dominated by traders, businessmen and roadside hawkers, Lucknow West witnesses the highest number of street crimes such as vehicle thefts, clashes and accidents. This year has been extremely unpleasant for the businessmen operating out of Rajajipuram, Chowk, Chaupatiya, Saadatganj, Buddeshwar, Campbell Road, Napier Road and Dubagga.
 
 “With political patronage, notorious youths have been extorting money from businessmen and traders. We all know how traders in Saadatganj are living in fear,“ said Mahesh Gupta who runs a cosmetics and general merchant store at Bulaki Adda, referring to the Shravan Sahu murder case. Sectarian clashes also result in loss of money in loss of money and property in Old City. Mohamaad Asif Ismail, 30, from Shivajipuram said there is growing an archy in Alamnagar.“I run a computer institute and a lot of women attend classes. Two liquor shops and model shops have been allowed to come up within a distance of 400 metre in a residential area. It becomes almost impossible to step out in the evening,“ said a frustrated Asif who said multiple complaints to local leaders and administration had been made. Asif has formed a group of 42 people in his locality who have agreed to collectively support a candidate who ensures to check the menace around liquor shops.
 
 Sarfarazganj resident   said that though population density was high, petty crimes at night such as thefts of taps, sanitary ware and construction material was common. “There are scores of drug addicts roaming around. They can steal anything to buy drugs. Police never takes these offences seriously,“ said Wasif.
 
 Rajajipuram resident Lalit Singh said, “Vehicle thefts are very common. We have been asking the MLA 's representatives to get some CCTV cameras installed. We have also agreed to pool in money but nothing changed. An independent candidate has come forward to help us. We will support him as he is supporting the local community.“
 
 Mohammad Aziz (32) resident of   said, “I hope the MLA ensures increased police vigil around women's colleges. I often go to pick and drop my cousins and harassment on streets is very common.“
 
