SAMBHAL: A day after Valmiki community in Fatehpur Shamsoi village threatened to embrace Islam, the district administration and police officials intervened into the matter and asked village barbers to give haircuts and shaves to the community members. Bhajoi station house officer (SHO) Ranjan Sharma told TOI that all the three village barber shops are now open and cops are ensuring that Valmikis get haircuts. On Monday, fed up after decades of being denied haircuts at their own village due to an upper-caste diktat, Valmikis of the village had threatened to convert.
 
  There are about 15,000 Thakurs and Brahmins, and about 1,250 Valmikis in 250 families in the village. For decades since Independence, Valmikis were allegedly not been allowed to get haircuts or shaves from the village barbers because upper castes had declared that if the Dalits were given haircuts they would not get haircuts from the ‘impure’ implements. Over the decades, Valmiki men have had to travel 15 to 20 km to towns such as Chandausi, Bhajoie and Islamnagar to get haircuts.
  
  On Monday afternoon, national president of  , Lalla Babu Dravid, along with other community leaders reached Fatehpur Shamsoi and called a panchayat . Former village pradhan Sanjeev Sharma and Bhajoie SHO Ranjan Sharma were also present. Dravid gave a 24-hour ultimatum to the upper castes in the village to reserve the diktat, or the community would leave the Hindu fold.
  
  Dravid said, “After our long struggle, the Valmikis of this village finally got haircuts in their own village. But that doesn’t mean we have withdrawn our decision to denounce Hinduism because Dalits in adjacent villages such as Nehta, Akroli and Vijaypur still can’t get haircuts in their own areas.” 
  
  Dravid also led a procession of the Valmiki community members in Moradabad on Saturday, carrying idols of Rama, Ganesha and other Hindu gods, which they later immersed in the Ramganga river in what they said was a symbolic farewell to Hinduism. The Valmikis said that because of continuous atrocities against Dalits in the state, in places such as Saharanpur and elsewhere, more than 500 members of their community would be converting to Islam. The protesters had also declared that they would re-build the Babri mosque in Ayodhya and raised slogans against the BJP.
  
  The protesters shouted slogans against the ruling BJP and chief minister  , condemning his silence on the recent incidents of attacks on Dalits in western UP.   activists reached the spot and tried to stop the procession, but they did not succeed as the   members outnumbered them. 
  
  The Valmiki Dharam Samaj head had announced that over 500 Dalits in the region would embrace Islam and offer Namaz if the situation does not improve soon. “Immersing idols of Hindu gods was our first step in that direction,” he had added.
