JAIPUR:   has ruled that the   of an employee could not be denied on the ground unrelated to his service. The   of   and Vijya Kumar Vyas ordered the   to pay full pension benefits to the petitioner with 12% interest within two months.

 Counsel for petitioner Mahendra Shah said, the petitioner H R Chaudhary was an employee with the BSNL and superannuated on December 31, 2004. The department suspended him a few days before his retirement on December 13 in contemplation of departmental proceedings. Meanwhile, he was convicted on a criminal charge for the death of his daughter-in-law under Section 306 of IPC (abetment of suicide) on December 16, 2004.
 
 On January 18, 2005 orders were issued that in view of the pendency of a vigilance case, provisional pension was sanctioned withholding death-cum-retirement gratuity till the conclusion of the vigilance probe. 
 
 The petitioner approached the Central Administrative Tribunal which had turned down his petition on which he appealed in the high court. The high court said the petitioner was suspended in contemplation of a departmental proceedings but no chargesheet was filed before his superannuation on December 31. A departmental proceeding commences only after issuance of chargesheet.
 
 It said, “Therefore, the suspension and withholding pension benefits are factually nonexistent.” 
 
 The court said the petitioner already convicted in the criminal case before January 18, 2005 when provisional pension and withholding pension benefits were issued. But the respondents made no reference to the same as they never intended to withhold full pension or gratuity for that reason.
 
  If no charge sheet was issued or served before superannuation and there were no proceedings under the pension rules for withholding of full pension and gratuity was not only arbitrary but illegal and unsustainable under law, the court said.
 
 
 
 
 Jaipur: Rajasthan High court directed the Rajasthan Public Service Commission to release the result of the exam for the junior accountant and tehsil revenue accountant as per the reconditions of the expert committee at the earliest.
 
 The court had earlier stayed the result of the exam after a bunch of petitions challenging the result was filed in the court on the ground that a number of questions and the answer key relased was not matching and constituted an expert committee to remove the anomaly. 
 
 
