THRISSUR: The   ( ) has stated that toll gates will not be opened even if the number of vehicles queuing up at the toll plaza goes beyond five or if the vehicles have to wait for more than three minutes.

 The NHAI clarification comes in the wake of the series of protests at   toll plaza demanding that toll gates be opened if more than five vehicles queue up or the vehicles have to wait for more than three minutes at the toll plaza.
 
 The protesters argue that as per the original agreement, toll gates must be opened when more than five vehicles are queuing up or vehicles have to wait for more than three minutes.
 
 Several cases are also pending before the high court and state human rights commission on the issue. 
 
 According to the clarification issued by the NHAI on July 20, Union ministry of road transport and highways notified the list of vehicles exempted from payment of user fee, in the rules released on December 3, 2010. “There is no specific exemption applicable relating to either time taken or distance of queued up vehicles at plaza, as part of the transaction. As such it is clarified that there is no provision of exemption to the user fee in case time taken for crossing the plaza is more than three minutes,’’ the clarification issued by Udeep K Singhal, general manager of the NHAI stated. 
 
 The NHAI clarification has invited severe criticism from various political parties including Congress and CPI. 
 
 DCC vice-president Joseph Tajet said the clarification violated the agreement signed between the state government and the road construction company for the construction of Mannuthi-Angamali-Edappally highway.
 
 Tajet, who has filed a petition in the high court on the issue, said information elicited by him through RTI queries shows there is no substance in the claim of the company that uniform toll rules apply across the country.
 
 The district committees of the CPI and AIYF have said that the NHAI move to support the toll collection company was an affront to the people.
 
 
