NAGPUR: On February 18, 2017, Sandeep Singh turned 36. The pacer hadn’t entered the ground for the last one-and-a-half years. He quietly walked to   Cricket Association office in Civil Lines, submitted his retirement letter and went back to his work.

 Sandeep retired as the most successful Vidarbha pacer. He took 189 wickets in 58 First Class matches—the most by any Vidarbha pacer — at an impressive average of 24.45. His best was 8-82 against Saurashtra, which had the likes of Cheteshwar Pujara.
 
 He had an average 2013-14 season and was dropped next year. Sandy, as he was fondly known by his teammates, never played for Vidarbha again. Sandeep made his debut against a star-studded Railways side and soon became an integral part of Vidarbha. Two years later, he was the spearhead of a young Vidarbha attack.
 
 Sandeep spoke to TOI about his 15-year career which ended on a sad note.
 
 
 :
 
 
 
 Actually, I have been thinking about it for the last one-and-a-half years. However, I wasn’t getting enough time to give the official letter. I was busy with my family business. A close friend advised me to call it a day, so I did it on my birthday.
 
 
 
 I am satisfied with what I achieved. When I started playing cricket, I didn’t think I would achieve so much. It was just for fun. I don’t know when enjoyment became passion. I felt I could have represented the Zone more. I had performed consistently for three years between 2003 and 2006 but didn’t get desired opportunities. I also wanted to be a part of   winning team. I played a crucial role in Central Zone’s Deodhar Trophy victory in 2007-08. Vidarbha won the zonal championship for the first time in the history same year.
 
 
 
 Yes. Nobody spoke directly to me. I was ready to fight for my place. I learnt that the men who matter wanted youngsters in the team. They felt I wasn’t fit enough. I always believe in bowling fitness. I felt I could do the job for the team, whether it’s bowling long or shorts spells. I believe in being effective. If you are bowling 25 overs, it means the team is bowling around 100 or more overs. If you are bowling 15-20 overs, it means you are restricting the opposition to a manageable score. Somebody like Pankaj Singh has been doing it successfully for Rajasthan. I missed out in 2013-14. I was working out for a comeback next year. However, midway through the season I realized it won’t happen and that’s where I started to concentrate on my family business. I don’t want to blame anybody. I am happy that I gave 100% whenever I played for Vidarbha.
 
 
 
 My childhood coach Nitin Patel played a crucial role early on. Later on, when I became a regular in Vidarbha fold, Preetam (Gandhe) Bhai helped me a lot. He always motivated me and taught me so much about bowling. I always picked his brain. He would always push me to give something extra. I also enjoyed playing under Sulakshan (Kulkarni) Sir. I wish I could have played more under him. He was a task master. He would always be ready with his inputs if we miss out on anything on the field. Of course, our association (VCA). It’s easily one of the best in the country.   has always provided great facilities and support. I would like to thank Shashank (Manohar) Sir and all the present and past officials. I would also like to thank all the members of support staff, especially Dr Ashish Agrawal, who helped me all these years.
 
 
 
 Vidarbha have a great future ahead. The senior team is doing well. This year junior teams have also done well. I feel Vidarbha can win Ranji Trophy in another two-three years. Faiz (Fazal) has always been an outstanding performer. Shalabh (Shrivastava) has improved a lot. We have some talented youngsters like Sanjay (Ramaswami), Jitesh (Sharma), (Aniruddha) Chore, (Sachin) Katariya, Apoorv Wankhede and Akshay Wadkar. In bowling Lalit (Yadav) and (Rajneesh) Gurbani are doing well. Shrikant (Wagh) has been around for a while. We have a good spin attack too.
 
 
 
 At the moment I am busy with my family business. I can’t give full time to coaching. However, I am open to a short stint.
 
 
