MOTIHARI\PATNA: Following the startling revelation by East Champaran police on Tuesday that the two recent train accidents near Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh were the handiwork of Pakistan’s ISI, the   (NIA) and   (IB) sleuths reached Motihari on Wednesday to interrogate Umashankar Patel, Motilal Paswan and  , the three terror suspects who had confessed to their involvement in engineering the accidents.
 
  A team of   (ATS) also reached Motihari and interrogated the three for their role in the train accidents. Altogether 151 people were killed and over 200 injured in the Indore-Patna and   accidents near Kanpur on November 21 and December 28, respectively.
  
  The three were arrested in Motihari on Tuesday for planting a cooker bomb on the Darbhanga-Raxaul railway track near Ghorasahan station on October 1. The bomb was, however, defused.
  
  The three suspects, taken on six-day police remand from a local court on Wednesday, were taken to an unknown location for interrogation. The trio had received around Rs3 lakh from one Brij Kishore Giri alias Baba Giri, who was arrested along with Mujahir Ansari and Shambhu Giri in Nepal. Brij was the ISI link through another Nepal citizen Shamshul Huda in Dubai to carry out terror activities in India. The three men in Motihari were arrested on the information received from Nepal police, who had nabbed Brij and his two accomplices from Bara district in Nepal.
  
  Sources said the intelligence agencies interrogated the trio for several hours inside the Motihari central jail.
  
  “We are also trying to ascertain if any terror training camp was organised to impart training to sabotage railway tracks by planting explosives. If any such camp was organised, did criminals from different parts of the country take part in that,” said an intelligence bureau official.
  
  More than 12 criminal and Maoist-related cases are lodged against the trio with Motihari police. Intelligence agencies are scanning all the Maoist activities along the Indo-Nepal border to ascertain any links with the ISI.
  
  This is for the first time in India that ISI has used criminals and Maoists, instead of dedicated sleeper cells, to carry out terror activities.
