QUEPEM: Quepem assembly segment stretches from the Khola coast to Molcornem in the foothills of the Sahyadris, close to Goa’s border. Hence, its problems are as diverse as its topography.

 The villages are far-flung in hilly terrains and a few places are not well-connected by road transport. Areas like Morpirla are plagued by lack of electricity and drinking water. In terms of healthcare, 24-hour medical facilities are unavailable in most parts of the taluka, except Curchorem.
 
 “Real development always benefits public. Quepem hasn’t seen much development, and this does not mean only roads and buildings,” says Tribio Goes, a Khola resident.
 
 Many villagers in remote areas such as Gocoldem, Bendurdem, Coddem and Horna in Fatorpa do not have toilet facilities, Goes said. The electricity wires in some places are found tiedto trees in the absence of poles especially in Horna. Quepem town, the nucleus of the constituency, isn’t short of its problems either. Citizens are bitter that none of the MLAs have been able to tackle them. “There is no bus stand and market complex in the town,” a citizen said.
 
 Quepem has been famous for its Sunday market for decades and draws villagers from outlying areas. Vendors and consumers crowd the narrow road stretches and pavements, thereby slowing down the traffic. Inadequate parking facilities further add to their woes.
 
 The movement of mining trucks on narrow roads makes life dangerous for the public. “The killer trucks have taken many lives and there is an urgent need for a mining corridor,” Doffy Pinto, a resident of Quepem town, said. Citizens and activists have been demanding a bypass for mining trucks for so long. Quepem MLA and Congress leader, Chandrakant Kavlekar had promised to take up the issue with the government and ensure its completion.
 
 “But he has failed in his promise,” Navin Naik, another voter said. Kavlekar’s pet project, Quepem primary health centre is lying idle. The Rs 1.4 crore hospital building doesn’t have requisite equipment. Kavlekar had promised to complete it within six months. Ten years later, neither the MLA nor the government has taken the initiative to make it functional, citizens alleged.
 
 All these issues are likely to dominate the February 4 polls in some way or the other. The Quepem segment, with a predominant schedule tribe (ST) population, has not remained any party’s bastion for a peculiar reason. Voters have invariably elected a new legislator after three terms.
 
 Former minister and Congress MLA, Vaikunth Desai and his MGP-BJP counterpart, Prakash Velip shared six terms between themselves. Kavlekar who nudged out Velip is trying to retain the seat for the fourth time.
 
 Most parties, except Congress, have fielded candidates belonging to ST community. Kavlekar belongs to Dhangar community, which is waiting to be included in the ST list. 
 
 Kavlekar, a former ZP member, who first won in 2002 by defeating Velip from  , was in some trouble after he was accused of being involved in   (GIDC) land fraud, and later crime branch was looking into his alleged land deals in Kerala.
 
 But the status of investigations is not known. Kavlekar gained from denial of BJP ticket to Velip in 2012, as BJP’s ally, MGP fielded Prakash Arjun Velip. 
 
 The three-time MLA stood as an independent and Kavlekar won convincingly. He bagged 10,998 votes while Velip as independent got 4,637. MGP’s Velip received 4,436 while former chairperson of Quepem municipal council, Manuel Colaco (UGDP) got 4,356 votes.
 
 But in a changed scenario, BJP has managed to quell the rebellion in its camp by getting an independent candidate to withdraw from the fray. Another factor that may be crucial is Colaco’s support to AAP nominee tribal leader, John Fernandes. Colaco withdrew and paved the way for Fernandes, citing health reasons.
 
 The presence of Sudesh Gawde (MGP) may affect Velip, but it remains to be seen to what extent. Charles D’Silva of   is another candidate. Can Kavlekar or Velip create history? Or can others upset their apple cart?
 
