TEHRAN: Fourth seed Grandmaster   entered her third tiebreaker in as many rounds, while   Rout also made it to the final day of the third round of World Women's chess championship here.

 With the quarterfinal berths at stake, Harika did not get much with white pieces and attained a draw against   of Georgia, while Padmini pressed hard but also could not manage a draw against Tan Zhongyi of China.
 
 As both Indians had drawn the first game under classical time control too, the match will now be decided in a maximum of seven games in the tiebreaker.
 
 Harika has been tentative in normal games and the trend continued for the sixth game in a row.
 
 In the first round she had drawn both games against much lower ranked Shamima Akter Liza of Bangladesh while in the second Dinara Saduakassova had proven to be a tough nut.
 
 Although she tried hard against Guramishvili in the first game and was close to pressing her advantage home, the second game proved that Guramishvili was well-prepared too.
 
 For the records it was a Queen's gambit accepted wherein pieces changed hands at regular intervals and the Georgian even managed an optically better position in the ensuing queen and minor piece endgame.
 
 However, Harika gave nothing away and drew in 36 moves.
 
 Padmini faced the Berlin defense from Zhongyi and looked slightly better in the typical endgame that arises from the opening. Zhongyi was also up to the task in defense and the game was drawn in a mere 23 moves.
 
 Both Harika and Padmini will now first play the two rapid tiebreak games with 25 minutes each and a 30 seconds increment after every move, if still tied two games will be played with 10 minutes each and a 10 seconds increment and if the deadlock continues two blitz games with five minutes for both players and a three seconds increment will also be played.
 
 If the tie remains unsolved after six more games a final Armageddon game will be played with five minutes to white and four minutes to black and increment of three seconds coming in only from move 61.
 
 In the final game white must win in order to qualify. The second round of USD 450000 championship had seen two tiebreakers leading to the Armageddon game.
 
 There will be four matches in tiebreak in all.
 
 Top seed Ju Wenjun will battle it out against Olga Girya of Russia while Alexandra Kosteniuk of Russia will have to tackle veteran   of Sweden.
 
 Meanwhile, second seed Anna Muzychuk of Ukraine made it to the quarters beating Pham Le   of Vietnam. Nana Dzagnidze of Georgia, Ni Shiqun of China and   of Bulgaria also made it to the last eight at the expense of Shen Yang of China, Natalija Pogonina of Russia and Nino Khurtsidze of Georgia respectively.
 
 Results round 3: Ju Wenjun (Chn) drew with Olga Girya (Rus) 1-1 goes to tiebreak; Pham Le Thao Nguyen (Vie) lost to Anna Muzychuk (Ukr) 0-2; Alexandra Kosteniuk (Rus) drew with Pia Cramling (Swe) 1-1, goes to tiebreak; Sopiko Guramishvili (Geo) drew with D Harika (Ind) 1-1, goes to tiebreak; Nana Dzagnidze (Geo) beat Shen Yang (Chn) 1.5-0.5; Natalija Pogonina (Rus) lost to Ni Shiqun (Chn) 0.5-1.5; Antoaneta Stefanova (Bul) beat Nino Khurtsidze (Geo) 1.5-0.5; Tan Zhongyi (Chn) drew with Padmini Rout (Ind) 1-1, goes to tiebreak. 
 
