Kolkata: Had a young Narendranath not loved to eat rasogollas, he might never have, years later, become Swami Vivekananda. For, a family elder, had persuaded him to meet Ramakrishna by saying the priest distributed the sweet amongst those who went to meet him. It is entirely possible that Naren, as he was known then, went more because of the rasogolla than Ramakrishna.

 Mani Shankar Mukherjee — or Shankar, as most of us know him as — has this and hundreds of such priceless nuggets of information in a new book on Swami Vivekananda. ‘Ahaare Anahaare Vivekananda’, as the name suggests, examines the spiritual life of the monk in a hitherto little-explored light — through his love of, almost bordering on obsession for, food.
 
 “In my journey through Swamiji’s palate, I have actually been able to map several spiritual landmarks of his life,” laughs the author when the spirituality-food connection is remarked upon, and recounts the rasagolla story. “Again,” he says, “it was severe stomach ailment that kept bothering Swamiji’s general health, especially after he left his mother’s care and accepted sanyas at the age of 23. But this proved to be a boon in the larger sense. He had to travel first class both on train and ship so that he could access the toilet at peace. So he rubbed shoulders with the elite. On one such trip he met JRD Tata and told him not to depend on foreign products but start manufacturing steel in India itself. Later, he even advised him to start a science learning institute of excellence and IISc Bangalore was born.”
 
 Many other fascinating nuggets emerge. Though it is commonly known that Swamiji loved to eat fowl cutlet from Chacha’s Hotel next to his ancestral house on Shimla Street, it was Peeru Hotel, again not too far away, where he was a regular customer. “He probably got this from his father, who got a Muslim cook to instruct cooks at home how to prepare non-vegetarian dishes. Soon, with his young friends, Swamiji started the Greedy Club at home to experiment with food. What’s more, the first item that he ever bought by saving up his pocket money was an encyclopaedia of French cooking,” the author mentions in the book.
 
 And because the monk loved cooking and feeding people as much as he loved eating, he did quite a lot to popularize Indian cuisine wherever he went and with whomever he met. This penchant for cooking and feeding people went on unabated through early monkhood and even when he went abroad to tour the US and the UK. “Just as he spread Vedanta among foreigners, he started making Indian cuisine popular too. He used to offer to cook Indian meals in the kitchens of whoever offered to host him during his long years of stay abroad. Cooking excited him so much that he decided to start a home delivery service in 1896. He was perhaps the first Indian to think of this kind of startup,” Shankar says.
 
 In fact, Vivekananda’s mortar and pestle, Indian spices and a liberal ration of cooking ingredients followed him wherever he went. He used to telegram the other monks at the Ramakrishna Mission to replenish his supplies whenever he ran out. “Once he had asked for sona moong dal to be sent to him urgently because his khichudi had become a hit with his hosts. The monks roasted the entire supply of moong dal and sent it to him. He was so angry that he sent back a volley of verbal abuse, saying roasted moong dal spoils easily,” Shankar says from his book.
 
 Vivekananda also loved spicy food and used to pep up everything he ate with a dash of green chilli. He missed this abroad, and his hosts tried their best to get some for him whenever they could. Once, in 1896, a host in England paid three shillings to buy just three green chillies for him, which he devoured in one go. “Just as he loved the heat of spice, he loved the chill of ice-cream too and devised his own recipe. He would add sugar and crushed ice to scraped coconut and relish it. Was it his sweet tooth that finally led to diabetes or whether it was hereditary is not known, but both blood sugar and high blood pressure were added to his chronic stomach ailments to make life miserable for him. Towards the end, he even lost his eyesight because of diabetes. Unfortunately, insulin had not been invented then,” Shankar rues. However, two of his brothers who outlived him and offered valuable insights into his life through their writings, lived to be over 80. Shankar met both of them and collected valuable information from them about Swamiji.
 
 Some of Vivekananda’s critics used to pounce upon the fact that he ate non-vegetarian food abroad, something they considered “sacrilege” for a monk. “Ask them to send me a cook and ingredients that can help cook food that they think is suitable for a monk. I don’t think there can be any restriction on the food that a monk can have. In a foreign country, I have to eat what my hosts eat, no matter what the pundits at home say. I have allowed my fellow monks of the RKM order to have any kind of food they want. I don’t want to impose vegetarianism on anyone but at the same time I must emphasise the benefits of a vegetarian diet. Give me khara (drumsticks) and I can walk any length of the earth to chew them,” Swamiji had said.
 
 A lot of dust is often kicked up over whether Vivekananda had tasted beef or not. Reams have been written for and against it. “There is no absolute proof on this,” Shankar says. “While he had said that he would gratefully eat whatever his hosts would prepare for him abroad, which might mean that he tasted all kinds of meat that foreigners have most naturally, on the other hand, he denied having had steak after his lecture at Chicago, though a monk of another religion who had travelled with him alleged that he had ordered steak after the speakers met at the basement for refreshments. Steak in America those days obviously meant beef steak.”
 
 But fish he loved, and of the many varieties he had, Hilsa was his favourite like a true-blue Bengali. Once, while on a steamer crossing over to Narayanganj, now in Bangladesh, he bought 20 Hilsas so that not he alone but even the boatmen could have a feast. But as the fish were getting cooked, he realised that he salivated for hilsa head cooked with pui shaak, a traditional Bengali delicacy. So he got off the steamer midstream, arranged for a smaller boat, went to the bank, disembarked, looked for pui shaak everywhere and finally managed to get some from a farmer who gave it to him in exchange for diksha, according to a nugget from the book. “He bought 20 Hilsas for Re 1. That was in 1897, and can be easily used as an inflation index,” Shankar says.
 
 “You cannot separate food from Vivekananda,” says the author. “In fact, if you have to appreciate his philosophy, you have to understand the gastronome in him that loved to eat and feed and experiment with food. I personally believe that food was his other mission in life, if not the most important one. It lorded over other topics in most of his letters and other pieces that he wrote himself and in what others wrote about him. Though we have access to many of these documents, there’s much that is lost, and I will strive to discover them. His correspondences with his mother, for example, can throw open another unknown world of the Swamiji who never fails to inspire,” Shankar signs off.
 
 
