PATNA: A division bench of Justice Naviniti Prasad Singh and Justice Vikash Jain of the Patna high court came down heavily on the Centre and state government for not being responsive in the case of Lebanese citizen Fadi Aziz Fadel (36), who has been languishing in Sitamarhi district jail for the last eight months.

 Fadel, a native of Zaleh city in  , came to Nepal in 2015 to help the earthquake victims and inadvertently entered the Indian soil on July 7 last year. He was arrested by Sitamarhi police with a two-wheeler and some other items of daily use.
 
 The court has ordered both the governments to file a detailed counter affidavit as what they intend to do with the petitioner, especially when the Embassy of Lebanon is seeking deportation of its citizen.
 
 Fadel’s counsel Shama Sinha said the court also said why the Indian tax payer’s money was being wasted on the Lebanese citizen when his embassy was ready to take his responsibility.
 
 “Upon completion of investigation, police could find nothing, except violation of the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946, for illegally entering the country. The petitioner informed the Embassy of Lebanon in New Delhi. The embassy has written to the ministry of external affairs that Fadel is innocent and wandered into the Indian territory and should be deported as per the Foreigners Act. The Lebanon embassy is ready to take his responsibility. There is no response by either the central or the state government,” the court observed.
 
 Lebanon ambassador to India Ghassan Abdel Khalek told TOI over phone on Friday that they were awaiting the Ministry of External Affairs’ response for Fadel’s deportation. “The embassy is providing all necessary help to Fadel in clearing the legal hurdles. We will completely abide by the Indian rules. The embassy also takes responsibility that Fadel’s antecedents are clear in Lebanon and he was not involved in any criminal activity,” the ambassador added. 
 
 The matter would come up for hearing again on March 20.
 
 
