PANAJI: Detention figures for Class IX in Goa are at an all time time high, the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry’s   ( ) data has revealed. A total of 4,988 students had to repeat the academic year 2015-16 across schools in the state, a figure that translates to 16% of the Class IX enrolment.
 
  The figure is up by over 1,000 compared to previous academic years as per earlier DISE records.
  
  In their hunger for a place in the roll of honour as a school with cent percent pass out rate, schools forced 3,260 boys and 1,728 girls to repeat Class IX.
  
  During the same academic year, the repetition rate for other classes, where the stakes were not as high, was less than 5% of the enrolment.
  
  The no-fail policy, which was introduced in Goa in 2010, prohibits schools from detaining students up to Class VIII. But there is nothing to prevent schools from detaining students from Class IX onwards.
  
  But as the academic year 2016-17 draws to a close,   of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education expects that this figure of students kept behind in Class IX will come down from this year. From June 2016, the board quietly introduced changes in the evaluation pattern of Class IX, introducing more projects and assignments, making it easier for students to score marks and tougher for schools to justify a detention.
  
  “A student failing to secure A to G grade in the school assessment subject/s will be given enough opportunity by the head of the institution to improve his/her grade in such subject/s, before the declaration of final results,” the new pattern of evaluation for Class IX students states.
  
  It also asks schools to carry out project work in the second term to be evaluated group-wise. “It should be activity based and promote teamwork. In case of languages, testing in orals should be used to enhance communication skills,” it states.
  
  “Making students repeat a class, actually affects the morale of the student. It is unlikely that a student will perform better on being detained in a class,” said Goa Board chairperson  .
  
  The board has long acknowledged the practice of detaining students in Class IX for better Class X results. The board’s data in 2013 had shown that city schools are likely to make a bigger chunk of upto 50% of its Class IX students to repeat the class.
  
  While the officials feel that the trend has always existed, it is not clear if there has been a rise in detentions in Class IX due to the no-detention policy.
