PUNE: The Shivajinagar police on Wednesday registered an FIR in connection with the obscene and threat messages sent to Shiv Sena spokesperson and MLC Neelam Gorhe, a day after an RTI activist was arrested from Jalgaon on the suspicion of sending the texts to her and an NCP leader.

 Shivajinagar police inspector Rajendra Mokashi said sub-inspector   had registered the FIR based on the complaint and text messages forwarded by Gorhe. 
 
 “We shall initiate the process for seeking his (the arrested man’s) custody in connection with the offence registered here and record the detailed statement of Gorhe after she reaches Pune on Wednesday evening or Thursday.”
 
 The Mumbai police on Tuesday evening picked up the RTI activist, Deepak Pyarelal Gupta (41). He is in the custody of the Vile Parle police in Mumbai at present.
 
 On Tuesday, city police chief   had ordered an inquiry into the complaint of Gorhe. She had said a case would be registered soon.
 
 After Gorhe complained to Shukla and Mumbai’s joint commissioner Deven Bharti for appropriate action against the person(s) sending her obscene and threat messages on her cellphone, the police in Pune, Mumbai and Navi Mumbai swung into action. They zeroed in on Gupta after tracing the location of his cellphone.
 
 The Mumbai police took Gupta into custody from Jalgaon around 4.30pm on Tuesday. 
 
 Gorhe, a resident of   in Shivajinagar, had sent a written complaint to Shukla and forwarded the text messages she received on her cellphones, but did not visit the police station for registering the complaint because she was in Mumbai on Wednesday.
 
 The Shivajinagar police registered the FIR in connection with the obscene and threat messages sent to Gorhe under sections 354 (a), (d) [punishment for sexual harassment and stalking], 506 (2) [punishment for criminal intimidation], 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) and 509 (word gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of IPC and Section 66 (a) [punishment for sending offensive messages through communication service] of the Information Technology Act.
 
