KOCHI: Calling the recent arbitration award which requires Delhi   Rail Corporation (DMRC) to pay Rs 2,782.33 crore to Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited (DAMEPL), a subsidiary of Reliance Infrastructure (RInfra), as “totally wrong”, former DMRC managing director E   has said that the way the project was handled by RInfra was “atrocious”.

 Speaking to reporters on Thursday, he said there was no reason why the arbitration award, decided by a three-member tribunal after a three-year hearing, should have gone against DMRC. “I started the airport line and I have a great grievance against Reliance for the way they handled the project, delayed it and then ran away midway, and that company got the award,” he said, expressing surprise. He clarified that he was speaking in his personal capacity and not as principal advisor to DMRC.
 
 The Airport Express Line, started in 2011, has been mired in controversy from the beginning. The high-speed corridor started behind schedule and was taken over by DMRC in 2013 after the line was closed for a few months. The case was taken to the tribunal as DAMEPL claimed damages after walking out of the concessionaire pact. “DMRC has taken the issue to court and I have no doubt that it will win the case,” said Sreedharan. “We respectfully disagree with the views of Sreedharan, expressed in his personal capacity. At present, the matter is sub judice in the high court,” a DAMEPL spokesperson told TOI.
 
 Sreedharan, who is now helping in the construction of Kochi Metro, the first phase of which was recently commissioned, said that though he visits Delhi twice a month, he doesn’t interfere in the work of DMRC at all. When asked about the frequent snags faced by Delhi Metro and the ever-increasing rush, Sreedharan said the network is expanding fast and running it smoothly is a big responsibility.
 
 “Ridership is high and the trains are congested. DMRC needs more trains and trains are being procured,” he said. However, with more corridors being opened, such as the Heritage Corridor, congestion on arterial lines would come down, he said.
 
 Talking about the delay in construction of Phase III of Delhi Metro, Sreedharan said the situation has changed a lot since he was at the helm. “We had a lot of help from the public, government and other agencies but acquiring land has become a big issue now. It was not so difficult when I was in charge,” he said.
 
 When asked about a lot of popular support for him when his name was being proposed for President of India, Sreedharan said it was media speculation and he was never approached. “Even if I was approached, I would have declined,” he said, citing his advanced age. Sreedharan turned 85 on June 12.
 
 He said he wanted to retire after stepping down as MD of DMRC but was approached by Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy to help with the construction of Kochi Metro. “There was a lot of pressure on me to continue as the MD but I thought I was too old to shoulder the responsibility. While leaving, I ensured that my shadow shouldn’t hover over DMRC,” he said, adding that the present DMRC management is very competent. “They have done well and shouldn’t need any guidance,” he said.
 
 “I promised to myself on my 85th birthday that I won’t take any more projects,” he said. He said he wanted to resign from his positions in Lucknow and Kanpur metros but UP chief minister Yodi Adityanath asked him to help in construction of metro networks in Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Agra and Meerut. He said feasibility studies are now being conducted in these cities.
 
 
