COIMBATORE: An inquiry commission led by retired   judge S   on Thursday inspected the   ground where thousands of students protested demanding ban on   to be lifted.

  Rajeswaran said he would conduct a meeting with the students and other people of Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem and Madurai who participated and sustained injuries in the protest and submit a report before the government within three months.
 
 The commission also visited  , where police lathi-charged the protesters who pelted stones at them on January 23, and Codissia Road, where the district administration had arranged rekla race that was abruptly concluded after the protesters gheraoed the local minister S P Velumani.
 
 The movement had seen college students, youths and general public staging protests across the state, urging the central and state governments to bring in a permanent law for the smooth conduct of jallikattu. More than 50,000 people had gathered at the VOC Park ground and staged the protest round-the-clock. Finally, the state government brought in an ordinance to conduct the bull taming sport.
 
 On January 22, the district administration had orgainsed rekla race at Codissia Road. The event, however, saw participation of just three carts. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated the race but more than 500 youths gathered there and gheraoed the minister, who managed to escape from the protesters.
 
 On January 23 around 8.30am, a team of police led by city police commissioner A Amalraj started to evict the protesters from the VOC Park ground. All the youths were forcibly removed. Meanwhile, some staged a protest at Gandhipuram Junction. When the police reached the spot, the protesters pelted stones at them, forcing them to lathi-charge the crowd. The Chennai police were also involved in violence.
 
 Following the violence, the state government formed an inquiry commission led by S Rajeswaran. On February 9, he had visited various places in Chennai where the violence was reported. On Thursday morning, he inspected the VOC Park ground. Deputy police commissioner S Lakhsmi provided the details to the commission.
 
 “I came here to inspect the spots where jallikattu protests were staged. The city police officials have submitted photos and videos as evidences. We will conduct a meeting with the students, youths and general public who participated in the protest and recorded their statements. The meetings will be held in Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem and Madurai in two weeks,” Rajeswaran said.
 
 District collector TN Hariharan and police officials accompanied the commission.
 
 
