CHENNAI: Should the   fix minimum marks for students joining   courses in foreign institutions, asked the  , concerned that many low scoring students were landing medical seats in foreign colleges.

 Noting that only academically brilliant students must join MBBS as people entrusted them with their bodies, justice M Kirubakaran asked why the Centre was not asking states to start a medical college in each district.
 
 “It is not understandable how moneyed persons who get comparatively low marks are allowed to get admission in foreign medical colleges or universities and they are able to get   which is also permitted by MCI which recognizes the degrees. Only meritorious students should be allowed to enter medical colleges, as the lives of patients are with the prospective doctors. Further, our country needs more doctors and hence urgent measures have to be taken to establish more government medical colleges to so that medical education is not commercialized,” he said.
 
 The judge was passing orders on a writ petition filed by Thamarai Selvam who did his MBBS at International University of Health and Sciences, St Christopher and Nevis in the West Indies. He completed the course in 2011 and cleared the MCI screening test in 2016.
 
 He filed the petition after his application for provisional registration certificate was not considered by the   medical council.
 
 Pointing out that the institution was MCI-recognised and the candidate scored just 77% marks in Class XII, the judge raised the following questions: 
 
 How many medical graduates from foreign medical colleges took screening tests in the past 10 years?
 
 Is MCI aware students with less marks are able to get admission in foreign institutions and get medical degrees? 
 
 Will allowing such students to get medical degrees not go against public interest?
 
 Whether or not minimum marks are prescribed by MCI for graduates of foreign medical universities? 
 
 How many medical colleges/institution are there in India?
 
 How many more medical colleges/institutions are required to meet Indian requirements of doctors?
 
 Why can Centre not direct all states to establish at least a government medical college/institution in every district to produce more doctors to meet the demand and to prevent/reduce commercialization of medical course by private medical institutions?
 
 The judge the adjourned the hearing to April 10.
 
 
