CHENNAI: Chennai is staring at a severe water crisis in the coming months following a 60 per cent deficit in the  . Water in the reservoirs may feed the city for a month or so, officials say.

 On Tuesday, minutes after chief minister  's statement on the drought-like situation in the state, municipal administration minister SP Velumani held a meeting with local body officials. While Metro water officials say they are maintaining daily water supply, in several pockets, residents have already started complaining of erratic supply.
 
 In a cause for concern, weathermen have predicted no rain for the rest of the week. Met officials said a system that is likely to form near the Andamans may give Tamil Nadu a pass and move towards Myanmar, as the winds that would steer such systems are now moving in northeasterly direction. “Chennai will see dry weather and the temperature would be a mini mum and maximum of 24 and 31 degrees Celsius,“ said S Balachandran, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, Regional Meteorological Centre, Chennai. 
 
 Velumani has instructed officials to initiate measures to provide unin terrupted water supply across the state. In his advisory for Chennai, the minister issued a slew of instructions to Metrowater officials. He instructed area engineers, deputy and assistant engineers to begin monitoring water supply at 6am. Officials were told to speed up work to change blocked pipelines and certify unused wells for drinking water purpose upon cleaning and inspection.
 
 Metrowater officials said they con tinue to supply 831 million litres of water per day (MLD) to the city, but admitted they may not be able to sustain it for long. No official was willing to be quoted but said the combined storage level in the Poondi, Chembrambakkam, Red Hills and Cholavaram reservoirs wast just 14 per cent of the total capacity of 11,057 million cubic feet. The reservoirs account for more than 50 per cent of the city's daily supply. “We are still sustaining supply with the two thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) available in the reservoirs. This will be enough for a month,“ said a Metro water official.
 
 The PWD officials brought more bad news ­ the much-awaited supply of Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh, which flows into Poondi reservoir through the Poondi-Kandaleru canal, may be delayed further. Supply was suspended in the middle of December ­ for the third time since October -after cyclone Vardah lashed Chennai. “We have been constantly in touch with officials in Andhra Pradesh. Their concern is that water will be illegally tapped along the way," said an official. The state received only 1 tmcft of water this year. As per an agreement under the Telugu Ganga project, Tamil Nadu is entitled to 12 tmcft. The desalination plants in Minjur and Nemmeli, which together account for a quarter of the city's water supply, are struggling to reach their maximum capacity of 100 mld each since the cyclone.
 
