ALLAHABAD: The Allahabad   on Thursday directed the state government to apprise it within two weeks about the steps taken to ensure  . 

 While hearing a   seeking CBI probe into mass exodus of Hindus from Kairana in Shamli district, the court also asked the state government to inform it about the whereabouts of the families that had left Kairana fearing communal violence and what was done to ensure their safety and facilitate their return.
 
 Hearing a PIL filed by a social worker, Lokesh Kumar Khurana, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Dilip Babasaheb Bhosale and Justice Yashwant Varma directed to list the case after two weeks for next hearing.
 
 The petitioner submitted in the PIL that the majority community in Kairana was committing crimes in the name of ‘jihad’ and such criminals were being called as ‘jihadis’. Hence, if no immediate steps were taken, places like Kairana will become another Kashmir where only one community resides after ousting the rest. The state police was not investigating the issue fairly under political pressure, the PIL added.
 
 Appearing for the petitioner, senior advocate V C Mishra argued that Hindus have become target of communal violence, specially in areas where they were in a minority, due to the appeasement policy of the state government. Many Hindu families had left such areas. Kairana is one such example where mass exodus of Hindus had taken place and as many as 346 Hindu families left the locality, it was argued.
 
 It was also alleged in the PIL that though the   (NHRC) had taken cognizance of Kairana incident and even issued notices to UP DGP and chief secretary to appear in the case, neither the officials were assisting the commission, nor were they appearing before it.
 
 A request has also been made in the PIL to direct the Union ministry of home affairs to take cognizance of such incidents and take action in accordance with law. 
 
 Central government through its principal secretary (home), Uttar Pradesh government through its chief secretary, principal secretary (home) and DGP, DM and SP of Shamli and DM and SSP of Muzaffarnagar have been arrayed as respondents in the PIL. 
 
 With a majority Muslim population, Kairana had witnessed communal riots in 2013.
 
