NAGPUR: Expressing disappointment over prevention of   in Nagpur district, DCP Deepali Masirkar revealed that she herself has been a victim of the malaise. “When I was five years old, my maths teacher used to touch me inappropriately, but because of lack of awareness, I never spoke about it to elders,” said Masirkar, while addressing paediatricians on Sunday at the installation ceremony of   (IAP), Nagpur, held at a city hotel. The annual theme of IAP this year is ‘Stop Child Abuse’.

 Lata Mangeshkar Hospital’s paediatric department head Dr Nilofer Mujawar took over as the new president of IAP, while Dr Rishi Lodaya as the secretary. IAP national president Dr Santosh Soans, president elect of central IAP 2017, was the chief guest, while Masirkar was the guest of honour.
 
 Masirkar said, “Most of you, during childhood, must have gone through some or the other form of abuse. The problem is we don’t speak up. Parents only warn children not to speak to strangers but my maths teacher was not a stranger. In most cases, the demons are at your home.”
 
 Masirkar also shared a case in the city where a 72-year-old retired scientist used to rape his three adopted daughters. She said, “Out of frustration, the 15-year-old narrated her plight to her schoolteacher. But the teacher told her not to share this to anyone, and even her gynaecologist and the NGO she asked help from did not disclose it to police.”
 
 Politicians don’t bother about the issue because the issue has no bearing for their vote bank, the IPS officer said. Nagpur district still doesn’t have a child welfare committee. “The committee requires a dedicated force to educate rescued children, but instead of setting it up, the government planned to dissolve the committee. At present we are forced to use the Child Welfare committee of Bhandara who spend three days a week at Nagpur. Whenever we rescue children, they have to be kept on wait for the availability of Bhandara committee,” she added.
 
 Masirkar asked IAP members to adopt one rescued child each. She said, “You don’t have to spend money on them. They just need your care and guidance. I am going to provide the list of such children. Let’s set a target of adopting 50 such children this year.”
 
 Dr Soans talked to TOI about growing usage of antibiotics in paediatric intensive care units (PICU) in the absence of a policy, which is slowly resulting into growing antibiotic resistant bacteria. Paediatrician Dr Vasant Khalatkar talked about unavailability of trained paediatricians which is leading to shortage of PICU in the country.
 
 
