CHENNAI: Reiterating his stand that   of courts is not an option available to practicing lawyers,   of the Madras high court  , who has been elevated to the Supreme Court, said: “Choice of abstaining from work is not available to the practitioners of this noble profession.   are the officers of the court who are meant to advance the cause of justice by prosecuting the case of their clients.”

 Delivering his farewell address in a packed hall on Thursday, Chief Justice Kaul who is expected to be sworn in judge of the Supreme Court on Friday, said, “Closure of the temple shakes the faith of the common man. It is my firm belief that the temple of justice has to remain open for the litigants to knock the doors at any time.”
 
 The judge, who began his tenure as chief justice of Madras high court on July 26, 2014, lauded the Tamil Nadu Bar and requested senior lawyers and judges to encourage younger members of the Bar to argue cases. 
 
 “Yearning of the younger members of the Bar is palpable. Senior members must provide leadership in the Bar and give opportunities to youngsters. It is their bounden duty. I have had the opportunity of listening to a number of younger members of the Bar, who are both erudite and committed. I do believe that it is equally the duty of the Bench to encourage youngsters in the Bar, as we have all evolved only through such a process. My appeal to the younger members of the Bar is to take the opportunities which come their way.”
 
 Use of technology for better administration is the need of the hour, as it enables transparency, whereby the progress made in a case can be monitored not only by the advocate, but even by the litigant, at the click of a button, Chief Justice Kaul said, adding: “Court should be a friendly place and not have trappings which overawe the litigant in his quest for justice.”
 
 The Alternative Dispute Redressal (ADR) mechanism, both via mediation and arbitration, has worked well, he said, adding, “We have to create infrastructure to facilitate resolution of disputes. Endeavour to expedite the delivery of justice necessitates the resolution of some disputes through these mechanisms, which are, in fact, more appropriate than the usual adversarial system which prevails in courts.”
 
 Noting that the 75-judge court, having about 55 judges at present, had ensured that there was no addition to pendency of cases, Chief Justice Kaul said the situation could only improve from now on. 
 
 “One of the most important duties of the chief justice is to see that the judicial and administrative vacancies are filled in at the earliest. Existence of vacancies affects the administration of justice.” He said increase in the number of cases showed that people were more aware, and added that one could have a very unhappy situation at hand if courts were not there. 
 
 “Can we meet the expectations of disputants without requisite manpower and infrastructure? It has been my endeavour to address this as a primary objective, and we all can take pride in the fact that the enhancement in the strength of sitting Judges has enabled us to have disposals equal to the filings in court. With an active strength of 56 judges, we have come to a point where this court does not any longer add to the existing arrears. A full complement of judges according to the sanctioned strength can only make things better.”
 
 He said: “I go with a sense of satisfaction that whatever little I may have achieved could not have been possible but for the assistance of the members of the Bench, the Bar and the people of Tamil Nadu, who have been equally magnanimous in showering their love and affection on me.”
 
 
