

  The extraordinary year-long literary journey of Season 1 that began in India in 2015 is over. 
  is now available online on Amazon as well as Flipkart.
 
  Write India started off as an idea, the root of which was the belief that there is no shortage of literary talent in India. Readers and authors across the world acknowledge the skill required to bring beauty to prose within a caged word-limit. The difficulty invariably is in selling a product with unknown faces, irrespective of their talent.
 
  That is where the   stepped up with an initiative unlike any seen before in the Indian literature industry.
 
 
 
 
  For the first time ever, 11 of India's bestselling fiction authors got together to be guides and judges for Write India Season 1. Every month, one of the 11 authors would give out a paragraph as a prompt and ask the people of India to draw inspiration from that paragraph and write a short story. 
 
  
  
  Can you imagine what that entails? 11 months of entries pouring in from all over the country with no restriction of age or any other bar; your talent was the only criteria. 11 authors who had sold more than 16 million books between them judged the entries for their individual months, whittling the number down from a few thousands to top 10, including a winner for their month. 
 
  I was the winner for the month of February 2016. 
 
  
  
  It would be pedestrian of me to blandly jot down the events of the book launch. I think it is far better to share with you snippets and visuals from the weekend that was for the winners of Write India Season 1.
 
 
 
 
  With all of us flown in from different parts of the country to Mumbai, our weekend began with the promised literary workshop at the   office. Following a warm welcome and introduction by Vinita Dawra Nangia (Director- Write India), we were left in the able hands of Dipankar Mukherjee (founder of  ).
 
 Dipankar helped us deconstruct the very art of storytelling, showing us the layers that go into the process and engaging us with many an interactive creative session so that we understood the nuances. And trust me, I do mean interactive creative sessions. If you have any doubts, you can ask the other winners about my quickly cooked-up mystery of 'a Thailand prostitute who wakes up on top of the Himalayas'! 
  
  
  (author of the bestselling 'Losing My Virginity and Other Dumb Ideas' in addition to being a film writer, a columnist and presently in the television industry) was her vivacious self as she peppered her session on character development with plenty of examples, showing us how to flesh out our protagonists better.
 
  Mahendra Jakhar (author, screenplay writer for Manjhi & Shagird) went the cavalier route, asking us to think outside the box instead of colouring within the expected lines of our story's genre. 
 
 The icing on the cake was a wonderful session with best-selling author  . Honest, self-effacing and polite-to-a-fault, he regaled us with many a tale of the industry (and various author) secrets. We literally turned off the video camera at least half a dozen times just to get these juicy details from him! 
 
 
 
 
  The country's tallest hotel tower, St Regis in Mumbai was luxury personified. Every floor shone with regalia. One of the authors who was a judge said it best when he told me this: 'The scale of this launch is something I have never seen for any book in India. Leave aside short stories, we haven't seen anything like this even for our novels.'
 
 
 
  It is a giddy feeling to be in the same room as celebrities you adore, is it not? Now imagine having a dozen of them in the same room and they are all here to congratulate you. Yes, the surrealism of it takes awhile to sink in. We maybe doctors and experienced lawyers in real life but over there, we were initially giddy teenagers gawking and pointing as we saw each of the best selling authors walk in.
 
 
 
 
  What became obvious fairly quickly was that these celebrity authors were friends in real life. The quick wit that marks their prose was on hand too, whether it was in response to queries or simply pulling each other’s legs at any given opportunity. 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  Courtesy   and the judges, we got to hear so many interesting anecdotes about the event and what went on behind the scenes.
  
 - We got to hear of Vinita's resolve to fight for the genre of 'short story' and bring it back into the limelight, proving wrong the naysayers in the publishing industry who felt the genre was dying. 
  
 - Ashwin Sanghi had the audience in splits as he told us his secret to being a good fiction writer - being a good liar as a child!
 
 - Ravi Subramanian had to explain to us all why he chose a prompt of infidelity when he was a judge. His answer? Mid-life crisis!
 
 - There were some interesting observations too. The oldest entry for the contest came from a 90-year-old man and it was a tale of second chances and looking back. 
 
 -The youngest winner, Prapti Panda was 14 years when she wrote such an amazingly mature tale on infidelity.
 
  After the felicitation by the authors, Nainesh's winning story 'Palwasha's Revenge' was portrayed on stage in a brilliant one-woman play by Swati Das. Gut-wrenching, harrowing and yet uplifting, it left us all stunned. 
 
 
 
 
  We were doctors and engineers, lawyers and students. We were giving our board exams and had university exams the day before we sent the story. We were as young as 14 and as old as my balding head. We were as diverse a set of people as you could imagine, spanning three generations. 
 
  But we all had one thing in common. We beat out 25,000 entries to be the top 11. 
 
  We were 'the Top 0.044% of all entries'.
 
  In the years to come, there will be other winners. We know that. There will be better stories too.
 
  But you can never take this tag away from us - Winners of the First Season of Write India, the largest crowd-sourced writing competition ever held in the country. 
  
  
 
 
 
  To say that the Write India event was unlike any other writing contest ever held in India sounds like a blatant exaggeration but consider the facts.
 
  When has there ever been a yearlong short story contest held in India, featuring 11 National bestselling authors as judges?
 
  When was the last time you had 11 authors who together have written millions of words and sold over 13 million copies of their books, flying down from different parts of the country and applauding you for your 2500 words of prose? This does not happen even for book launches of full-fledged novels.
 
  When has a short story book launch received this kind of fanfare and publicity with support from a globally recognizable media house? 
 
  I have been lucky enough to be a part of more than a dozen short story collections prior to this, including anthologies from the top 3 publishing houses of the country. I have attended three book launches in three different major cities as a co-author over the years. So, trust me when I tell you this, no short story collection in India has received the kind of media attention and grandeur that greeted us at the starry St Regis.
 
 Write India Season 2 is here and the simple fact is that you are never - I repeat, never - going to get an opportunity like this in your lifetime. This is the   &   Australia of the Indian writing universe. One single short story can catapult you into the limelight. 
 
 
 
  Understand the scale of this event. The 2016 edition of the coveted Commonwealth short story contest had 4000 entries sent in over 2 months from 5 continents. In comparison, Write India was a contest that lasted an entire year. You had a chance to write 11 times over the year. And in the end, a colossal 25,000 entries came in. 
  
 The final product consists of the best 36 stories curated from this list of 25,000 stories. Meticulous editing and attention to detail has been the key, delaying the launch until everything was in place.
 
  In the book, you get to see the original passage by the judge before turning the page and finding out how the top 3 entries took the prompt forward in their own unique styles. The very same author's passage that elicited a poignant tale in one author brought out an energizing thriller in another. This is not 'just another short story' collection. 
 
  Only the top 0.1 % made it into the book. Think of that. 
 
  I hope you do participate. And I hope you win. Because winning this will open publishing doors for you that no other short story you ever write could.
  
 
