Playing a UPite in the popular show 'Bhabi Ji Ghar Par Hai',   aka  , says people mistake her for a UPite now. And with election season on in the state, the actor claims she’s been invited by several political parties to canvass for them. “I have been getting calls from representatives of various political parties from the state, who are offering me a decent amount of money to come and campaign for them in Lucknow and other cities in UP. While I have an okay idea about politics, especially politics of UP, I can’t come and campaign for just anyone. I don’t want to be the face of any political party in UP elections. I need to thoroughly research which party is good for UP, only then can I support them,” says Shubhangi, who was in Lucknow on Saturday. She adds, “People are probably calling me because my show is based in Kanpur, so they might be thinking that I can influence voters or that I have some UP connection.”

 She adds, “But instead of campaigning for any one party in particular, I would rather motivate people to come out and vote in the upcoming elections. The voting percentage in our country is not that great, so even if people don’t want to vote for anyone, they have the option of choosing to use NOTA and not vote for anyone. Ghar se baahar aana chahiye and one should cast their vote. Every single vote counts.”
 
 While shying away from telling us which is her favourite political party, Shubhangi talks about her favourite politician instead. “Undoubtedly PM  . Though I had a really difficult time during demonetization as I was literally asking for chhutta from my spot boy and driver, I admire him a lot.” 
 While Shivangi is a pure vegetarian, she will be going to Lucknow’s famous Tundey’s this time for kebabs. “I will be taking Tundey kebabs for Vibhuti ji (actor Aasif Sheikh) and my real-life husband, who also likes them a lot. I was specifically told by Aasif ji to bring Tundey kebabs for him as he is really fond of them,” says Shubhangi, who travelled to Kanpur from Lucknow. 
 
 
 
 
 
