CHENNAI: When he ruled the Tamil   world, all of Ilaiyaraaja's time and energy went into conjuring up tunes and background music. In semi-retirement, Ilaiyaraaja -widely feted by Tamils as a maestro for his symphonic music - has been working to secure his rights to the music he created over three decades.

 Peeved that the record company to which he had signed away his songs had shortchanged him, in 2015, Raaja warned FM and television channels of legal action should they broadcast his music without his consent. More recently, he has turned his attention toward digital rights -an area in which his successor   has been successful.
 
 Raaja's recent missive against S P Balasubrahmanyam for singing his songs in public perfor mances has thrown the spotlight on complexities in   in film music. “There is a need for a measure that will protect the interests of all those in the musical value chain,“ said TV Rubin, music producer and singer.
 
 Vakilsearch's Hrishikesh Datar explains the law. “Section 17 of the Copyright Act, 1957 says the author of a work is the owner. However, if this work is done under employment, it is the employer who gets ownership,“ he said. Datar adds composers or authors can assign their work to another person for a fee and that is how the music industry works generally . The composer is paid a one-time hefty sum after which it is the producer who owns the copyright.
 
 “If SPB made a CD of Raaja's songs and made money out of it without giving any royalties, that would be copyright infringement. However, the present case is fair use of the copyright and must be encouraged,“ he said.
 
 In the digital age, when audio rights include a spectrum of digital rights like downloads through mobile networks, ring tones, caller tunes, internet streaming etc, it has made matters even more complex. To tackle piracy, platforms like Gaana and Saavn track downloads and help in monetising music, say experts.
 
 IP consultant Swapna Sundar of IP Dome said, “With cassettes and DVDs, one could monitor sales and earn royalties. Today, it is practically impossible to monitor how one's composition is used and the number of people using it,“ she said. Typically, artists become members of The   and assign their rights to the society. The society collects royalties on their behalf based on notified tariffs. For example, if Raaja's music is used in a TV ad, the royalty rate as mentioned on the   is Rs 45,000 per 30 seconds per annum though experts suggest the amount could be three times higher.
 
