CHENNAI: Former   skipper and current selector   was a happy man as he witnessed his nation's win in their   on Sunday. Bashar, part of the team that played its inaugural five-day game back in 2000 in Dhaka against India, felt the victory against   at P Sara Oval was one of the most cherished ones. "I didn't miss a single ball of this Test match. I always had the belief that we would win this as we did most of the things right throughout the match. For me, the turning point was Bangladesh taking a substantial first-innings lead of 129. Even in the previous game at Galle (first Test), we fought hard in the first innings but once Sri Lanka got the lead - it was difficult for us," Bashar told TOI, moments after the team's four-wicket win.

 Bangladesh had beaten West Indies and Zimbabwe overseas earlier, but this win was all the more special because it came against a Sri Lanka team that is extremely strong in their own backyard. It was only last year when the Lankans had handed  's Australia a whitewash at home.
 
 Bashar said that the biggest problem with Bangladesh in Test match cricket has been their inability to close out contests. "If you see, in the Test series against New Zealand and even in the one-off Test in India - we competed well. I have always believed that this Bangladesh unit is far better in Tests than their records show. All they needed to do was to hold their nerve, believe in themselves which is what they did so well in the second Test. I am sure people will talk about the win against Sri Lanka for a long time," Bashar said.
 
 For Bashar, the high-point for Bangladesh in their Test journey was their win against England last year at home. "We were 0-1 down, and that series-leveling performance gave us the belief that we can stretch the top sides in world cricket. While Bangladesh is now a formidable side in limited-over formats, the aim for us is to do consistently well in Tests as well. I think we are on the right track now. No one will take Bangladesh lightly in any format," he said.
 
 Bashar felt the biggest pluses for this unit is a mix of senior and juniors who have gelled well. "We have some fantastic seniors in our skipper  ,  , Shakib Al Hasan among others. They are guiding the younger lot and that's heartening to see," Bashar said.
 
 Most importantly, Bangladesh - ahead of the second Test - made the bold decision of dropping out-of-form batsman Mahmudullah from the side. Bashar felt the current team management didn't shy away from taking decisions which were the need of the hour. "Mahmudullah has been a valuable member of the side for many years, and one of the best batsmen to have come out of Bangladesh. But, you have to understand that there are occasions when tough calls have to be made in the interest of the team," he said. 
 
