LUCKNOW: Expelled BSP leader Naseemuddin   getting Mayawati’s telephonic conversation taped has brought the spotlight on the BSP chief being caught unaware of the growing apprehension and resentment within her party cadre. Known to wield an iron-like grip on her party functionaries,   had earlier been taken by surprise after former BSP national general secretary Swami Prasad Maurya and former party MP Brijesh Pathak turned rebel and defected to the   camp.

 Siddiqui, who was expelled for anti-party activities on Wednesday, claims of having many more audio clips and CDs as ‘proof’ against Mayawati. "Mujhse zyada unke baare mein koi nahi jaanta...agar saare tathya saamne le aaya to saare desh mein bhuchaal aa jayega (noone knows about Mayawati better than me...I have earthshaking facts about her),” Naseemuddin had said on Thursday. Mayawati, who has termed Siddiqui a ‘taping blackmailer’, has admitted that she was not aware about her close aide getting her conversation recorded.
 
 Sources said Siddiqui was getting insecure about his position in the party after Mayawati reportedly scolded him for his failure to woo Muslim voters in favour of BSP during UP elections. “I decided not to quit even though there were clear signs that I would be thrown out of the party one day,” Siddiqui said.
 
 Mayawati had faced the first major rebellion on June 22 last year when close aide and BSP MLA Swami Prasad Maurya revolted accusing her of selling tickets to party candidates and ignoring Dalit mission. Surprisingly no one got a whiff of the rebellion when Maurya attended a party meeting just a day before. Next revolt came from RK Chaudhary who revolted and quit the party in July last year. He too took Mayawati by surprise by calling a press conference and accusing the BSP chief of running the party like a real estate company.
 
 The defection of ex-Rajya Sabha MP Brijesh Pathak also surprised Mayawati. Pathak, a senior party functionary entrusted with the job to woo upper caste voters, managed preparations for Mayawati’s rally in Agra on August 22. Just after Mayawati left the venue after addressing her supporters, Pathak drove to Delhi and met BJP top brass. Within hours, he was seen sporting a saffron scarf and sitting by the side of BJP national president Amit Shah. Maurya and Pathak won UP assembly elections on BJP ticket and are now ministers in the Yogi government. Chaudhary won the assembly election as an independent from Mohanlalganj seat. 
 
 The revolt by Maurya, Chaudhary and Pathak sparked a flurry of defections. 
 
 Political experts say BSP functionaries growing insecurity and suspicion about Mayawati may not be without reason. “It is bound to happen in all parties where respect for a leader is driven more by fear,” said political commentator JP Shukla. Mayawati’s style of functioning has been undemocratic, he said, adding, “BSP ranks, therefore, seems to have got their own shield prepared.”
 
