KOLKATA: Amid his tight schedule in Kolkata, Boris Johnson found time to be the with kids on Friday.
 
 The secretary of state for foreign and commonwealth affairs managed to visit ‘Future Hope’, a charity that looks after street and slum children of Kolkata and launched their 30th year celebrations the same day.
 
 Johnson dropped in at the NGO for street and slum children run by fellow Briton Tim Grandage on Rowland Road. The 30-minute unscheduled visit came about after Grandage happened to mention to Johnson that it was a pity he couldn't visit any of the NGOs on this short trip, at a reception hosted for Johnson at Hyatt Regency on Friday evening.
 
 “This is an amazing place”, said Boris Johnson, after singing a full throated Heal the World with the children in the school assembly. “What are your ambitions,” he asked the children, “Who wants to be chief minister of West Bengal?” In response scores of hands went up. “Your children have a future!” said Boris. He shook hands with all the children and teachers, went round the classrooms and asked perceptive questions about access to education in India. India enacted the Right to Education Act in 2009, and charities like ‘Future Hope’ provide access to those children whom government and private schools miss out. 
 
  began its journey 30 years ago. Established in 1987 by Tim Grandage, then an executive with HSBC on a posting to Kolkata, Future Hope looks after vulnerable street children who have nowhere safe to sleep, no access to medical care and no responsible adults to look after their welfare. Tim began by taking a handful of children from the streets, found accommodation with a colleague, medical attention from a customer of the bank, and eventually schools for them to attend. 
 
 Future Hope now has seven homes for children, a full fledged school for K-12 with 250 children, alumni in universities and with good jobs, a skills centre and a new sports academy coming up on 24 acres in the New Town Rajarhat of Kolkata. 
 
 “What a lovely man Boris Johnson is. He’s so engaging and clearly loved speaking to the children who in turn were overthrown by his charm,” said  , chief executive of Future Hope.
 
