KOLKATA: The number of companies participating in placements on a single day at the established IITs will be capped from next year to reduce stress on job aspirants. Consequently, the recruitment process will get extended. Besides, blacklisted start-ups will get a chance to participate in the campus interviews in 2017-2018 session provided they give an explanation for withdrawing job offers last year.

 The decisions were taken at a meeting of the All-IIT   ( ) at Udaipur over Monday and Tuesday.“At times, students have to appear in multiple job interviews on a single day and take written examinations if recruiters so demand. All these put them under severe duress. So, the placement committee wants to limit the number of companies visiting the campus each day.
 
 We also want to spread out the span of placement instead of trying to fit in so many companies within just 12 days during the first phase,“ said a member of the All   (AIPC). The placement committee will decide on the daily cap in its next meetings. Keeping in mind the requirements of the newer IITs, the committee has also agreed to let them hold their campus interviews in October for another year. The placements for the other IITs begin on December 1.
 
 While reviewing the decision on startups, the committee held that the blacklisted companies would be allowed to rejoin the recruitment process only if they give a written explanation on why they had withdrawn their offers in the 2015-16 academic session. “Once we get a satisfactory response, we may waive the bar. Also, the companies may be called to one of the AIPC meetings to give a clarification. However, everything depends on the explanation,“ said AIPC convener Kaustubha Mohanty of IIT-Guwahati.
 
 In August last year, the placement committee had blacklisted as many as 30 firms from participating in the recruitment process following withdrawal of offers and withholding of appointments last season. At the meeting, the AIPC ice bearers discussed the office bearers discussed the problems plaguing the newer IITs like Patna, Ropar, Indore, Jodhpur, Bhubaneshwar and Gandhinagar.
 
 For   Mandi, however, it is the severe December cold that is the biggest obstacle.
 
