MYSURU: Days after CM   reprimanded the IFS top brass for   fire cases, senior officials have started the probe. This comes ahead of the CID investigation ordered by the government to locate the cause for the wildlife.

 Additional principal chief conservator of forests (vigilance)   on Wednesday, visited Gundre, N Begur and A M Gudi ranges and collected details from the field staff. Filed director (Project Tiger) G V Ranga Rao and   chief T Heeralal accompanied the senior IFS officer from Bengaluru, who visited the tiger sanctuary and supervised the fire fighting measures.
 
 Heeralal told TOI that the APCCF visited the three ranges which have been devastated by the wildfire and gathered information. He said the CID team will commence the probe as ordered by the CM.
 
 Sources said he also visited Moliyur range in the tiger reserve, though it is not affected by the wildfire. The tiger park is divided into eleven ranges. “The official is looking into fire fighting measures adopted ahead of summer,” they stated.
 
 While there are charges that fire line was not created adequately in the tiger sanctuary which helped the fire to engulf the park, an official said the senior officials didn’t focus keenly on creating fire line, especially in the ranges that is ravaged. Except for Moliyur range, fire lines were not created adequately in other ranges, said the official. There were also complaints that the officials fudged the number of labourers employed to create fire line, he added.
 
 BOX
 
 A 25-year-old female elephant, which was stuck in the slush in the Kabini backwaters, was rescued by a team of foresters on Wednesday in Bandipur Tiger Reserve. 
 
 The jumbo was spotted by the field staff early in the morning at Naayi Halla, who alerted the senior officials. Though they tried to scare it away, she didn’t move. The officials then got trained elephant Kumaraswamy from Balle elephant camp located in Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. A wooden log was placed near her through which she managed to come out and ran into the wild, sources stated.
 
