GURUGRAM: The   tangle around 464 acres of prime land, worth around Rs 3,000 crore, in   could get more convoluted as the   on Wednesday begins hearing arguments of 322 private entities — individuals or companies — who claim their right over the plots.

 The hearing follows showcause notices issued by the   to these entities. The civic body claims they have “illegally occupied” land of which MCG is the true owner. But there is no straitjacketing a controversy that has raged for four decades, fuelled by a series of contradictory orders from government officers. 
 
 Among those who have been issued notices is a group housing society and two special economic zones, one of which exists while the other is in the planning stage, along  . In the revenue department’s   (right of records), these entities are mentioned as owners of the land.
 
 There is wariness among government officials that the MCG notices could throw up a rash of litigations. YS Gupta, the civic body’s joint commissioner, acknowledged all 322 entities were identified with the help of ‘jamabandi’. He will hear the arguments on Wednesday and Thursday. Whoever is not satisfied with the hearing can approach MCG commissioner V Umashankar for a fresh hearing.
 
 “Almost all 322 entities are bound to approach the civil court following the meeting on Wednesday and Thursday as MCG has claimed ownership of this land on the basis of a mutation that has been found to have been carried out in violation of the orders of two financial commissioners (revenue) and a restrain order from the civil court,” said one individual who received the notice.
 
 Located in the Aravali foothills, the disputed land shares its borders with Delhi and Faridabad and is in possession of several developers, realtors and VIPs, including retired judges and former Union ministers, who own farmhouses there. 
 
 Referring to former Gurgaon deputy commissioner T L Satyaprakash’s inquiry, this person added, “It was carried out on the instruction of the chief secretary and at the behest of the CM, and has underlined that the land in question belongs to private individuals.”
 
 In January this year, days before his transfer, Satyaprakash had observed that some officials had exceeded their powers and jurisdiction and had not followed due process of law while erroneously sanctioning Mutation No. 3249 in gross violation of an earlier order passed in 2014 by YS Malik, then financial commissioner (revenue). Hence, Satyaprakash inferred, this mutation number was void. This is what MCG rushed to get stayed, fearing the land’s ownership would pass entirely into private hands. 
 
 The 464 acres, in official records, are referred to as Mutation No. 610. On July 2, 2012, a new mutation was done to recognise the MCG’s ownership over a significant portion of the land. This new mutation was referred to as 3110. Following Malik’s order, on December 1, 2015, mutation 3110 was cancelled and the land given back to private entities. Additional civil judge Rajesh Kumar Yadav of Sohna civil court, on December 17, 2015, while hearing a related case, said till the time the case was decided, district revenue officials cannot interfere in possession or alter the revenue records without following due process of law. Despite this, on December 18, 2015, mutation 3249 was once again entered in the name of MCG. 
 
 Umashankar, the current MCG chief, said his department was only trying to the right what was wrong. “We are working on the principle of restitution. We are trying to restore things as they were in 1989. The order passed by Harbaksh Singh (former deputy commissioner) in 1989 was set aside in 1992 and land records should have been reversed in 1992 itself but that has not been the case. We are just trying to get back the land that belongs to us and that is why we have issued these notices.”
 
 
