New Delhi: The number of air passengers checking in for their flights at the city counters of the Delhi Metro’s   Express Line went up from around 45 air passengers every day to 500 this month. The total number of check-ins at the non-airport counters since   took over the corridor in July 2013 stands at two lakh now.

 Jet Airways and Air India were offering the city check-in facility at the New Delhi and Shivaji Stadium   stations on the airport line and have been joined since Tuesday by Vistara.
 
 Airport passengers travelling on this line can obtain their boarding pass at the city check-in counters operated by these airlines. They can also check in their luggage at both the New Delhi and Shivaji Stadium metro stations. The baggage gets transferred to Indira Gandhi International Airport’s Terminal 3 through a secure baggage handling system. Passengers can check in from two hours to 12 hours before the scheduled departure of their flight.
 
 While the Airport Express Line was witnessing a ridership of less than 10,000 passengers per day when DMRC took over the operations from private concessionaire   in July 2013, the average number of people using the corridor daily now stands at 43,000. The corridor also crossed the benchmark of 50,000 passengers in August last year.
 
 The rise in ridership was facilitated to a great extent by DMRC slashing the fares on the line by 50% in 2015 and also extending the line to Dwarka Sector 21. The corridor is going to be further extended to Sector 25, Dwarka.
 
 On Tuesday, while inaugurating the city check-in facility of Vistara at the New Delhi metro station, Mangu Singh, DMRC managing director, said that more people would begin using the corridor once the upcoming Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) got connected with the Airport Express Lineline at Dhaula Kuan metro station next year.
 
 “We also expect more airlines to come forward and introduce check-in counters at these metro stations and give their passengers an alternative to busy airport counters. Delhi Metro provides a world-class experience and great convenience on the Airport Express Line,” Singh said.
 
 Ashwani Khanna, vice-president (terminal management), Delhi International Airport Ltd, said that with Vistara passengers now being able to check in at metro stations, the number of fliers using the off-airport check-in facilities is expected to go up to around three lakh next year.
 
