LUCKNOW: With the arrest of three youths, city police claimed to have worked out the sensational   murder case which was executed on February 1 in Saadatganj. However, police were yet to gather concrete evidence against the trio and the case had been worked out on the basis of circumstantial evidence.

  
  SSP Manzil Saini said Aqeel Ansari, a listed criminal from Thakurganj police station, was the key conspirator who plotted the murder before he went to prison on January 27. The youth, aged between 21 and 25 years , were identified as Satyam Chaudhary, Ajay Patel and Aman Singh. While Satyam had shot the 61-year-old Sahu outside his residence in Daalmandi in Thakurganj, Aman was driving the motorcycle. Satyam’s distant relative, Ajay, stayed in Shivpuri colony in Indiranagar and gave shelter to the duo in his room before they escaped to Delhi on the same night. 
 
 Three more persons, including the owner of the motorcycle used in the crime, Vivek Verma, supplier of .32 bore revolver and pistol, Raju, and Rohit were yet to be nabbed. Aqeel’s personal driver Rohit had helped Satyam and Aman in carrying out recce in Daalmandi. The three arrested came in contact with Aqeel six months ago when the historys heeter also stayed on rent in Shivpuri colony after coming out on bail in old cases in September last year. Police said Aqeel spent a lot of money and took care of Satyam’s and Ama’s expensesbecause of which they decided to help him out. A joint team of city’s crime branch and special task force jotted down the cellphone numbers which were active in Daalmandi between 8pm and 8.40pm when the crime took place. Additional superintendent of STF S Anand said that call detail records of Aqeel’s three cellphones were also being scanned. A team of sleuths was asked to trace the people who used suspicious cellphone numbers. And on Thursday evening, Satyam and Aman were nabbed from   in Delhi. Police were yet to trace the firearms which were used to gun Sahu down and the motorcycle used in crime. Saini said they had substantial inputs from the arrested trio and would question Aqeel in the coming days.
 
 While Satyam had a criminal record and had been to prison, Aman was a first timer. “They are educated youths. Satyam has studied from a Lucknow-based school and college. They are not connected to any established  ,” said Anand.
 
 
