KOLKATA/DARJEELING: With the Gorkha Janamukti Morcha spearheading the monthlong Darjeeling strife, reluctant to talk to the   government, speaker   on Sunday offered them a window indicating “his doors are always open for the three GJM legislators“ who will vote for the NDA presidential nominee Ram Nath Kovind from Kolkata on Monday.

 While one of them,  , reached Kolkata on Sunday , the other two MLAs will arrive on Monday morning.
 
 The Speaker said, “As MLAs they keep meeting me.They have not asked for any formal appointment on Monday but my doors are always open for them. The chief minister will also be in the assembly. She is expected to chair a state cabinet meeting (in the state assembly) on the sidelines of the Presidential polls.I cannot comment further.“
 
 The speaker's statement ap peared indicative.
 
 Rai, GJM's Darjeeling MLA, said, “As of now we do not have any plan to personally meet anyone from the government. We will just cast our votes for the Presidential candidate of our party's choice and return to Darjeeling.“ Rai said while he was in Kolkata and was out with his son, the other MLAs will ar rive only on Monday morning.“We haven't even discussed anything among ourselves.We will engage in a quick huddle before the election tomorrow but the party hasn't given us any instruction to speak to either the speaker or any of the leaders from the Bengal government,“ he said. On being asked, who will the MLAs vote, Rai said: “We have strict party instruction to vote for the BJP candidate.“
 
 BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, “I will meet them (the GJM MLAs). I spoke to them last week too. However, I have no instructions from the party leadership on taking them to meet either the speaker or any government representative.“
 
 The prospect of the Kolkata deliberations comes even as Darjeeling continues to be rocked by incidents of arson and violence. In the wee hours of Sunday , unidentified men torched a forest training cen tre in Kurseong's Garidhura that was closed for the past several years. Four CRPF contingents marched into Darjeeling on Sunday to keep with the high court's 48-hour deadline.
 
 GJM, which has consistently rebuffed the state's “dialogue sans violence“ offer, has also refused to ask its three MLAs -Rai, Rohit Sharma (Kurseong) and   (Kalimpong) -to tender their resignations from the assembly .
 
 
 
 
 Authorities at St Joseph's College in Singhmari alleged that the CRPF personnel who arrived in the Hills on Sunday forcefully entered its premises breaking the lock of the main gate.They, however, left in half an hour after the authorities asked them to move out claiming they had no permission to barge into their property. Jayashi Dasgupta, the Darjeeling DM, said she was in talks with Darjeeling college and school officials to allow the CRPF to camp in their institutions as most of the government premises have been set ablaze by the agitators.
 
