HYDERABAD: With the Trump administration tightening its visa norms, leading to 'misconceptions' and 'uncertainty' among people, the footfall of travellers to the US has seen a steep drop in numbers, say agents. The recent incident of alleged `hate crime' that left Hyderabad techie Srinivas Kuchibhotla dead at a bar in Kansas, has only further added to the slowdown they rue pointing to the long list of cancellations reported in the last few weeks.

 At least 70-80 per cent of travellers have cancelled their bookings with agents, said industry insiders. And these include not only those travelling for leisure, but even those scheduled to attend important occasions ­like the convocation ceremony of graduating children. These parents, agents say , are now skeptical of going ahead with their plans.
 
 Even the peak tourist season for the US, which usually kicks in mid-April continues till August, is likely to be bleak this time around. “Bookings are usually made about three months in advance. Many of those are now being cancelled.Also, people who had earlier shown interest in travelling to the US are now backing out,“ said Rashid Ali, director, Hyderabad Tours and Travels that is also an authorised travel coordinator for US visas.
 
 Tourists apart, even corporates and students from the city are increasingly found either cancelling or deferring their US plans. “Corporates are thinking twice before deciding to send their employees to the US. Many are putting their visits on hold. In fact, extremely unsure of what the future holds, particularly on the visa scene, 60 per cent of the applicants are not ready to appear for the visa interview,“ said Abdul MajidFaheem, chairman (Telangana and Andhra Pradesh chapter),   (TAFI).
 
 Predictably , student visa applications have dipped by 30 per cent in the last one month alone with observers expecting further southward movement in the future. “New applications for student visas are expected to drop further. About 65 per cent of our leisure trip bookings have been cancelled and many student visa applicants have expressed their desire to back out, particularly after the hate crime incident reportedly last month,“ said the director of another tour operating agency .
 
 In comparison to the previous year, the count of visa applications submitted this year is much thinner, said a source in the know of things.
 
