KOLKATA: Learning a lesson from the brutal murder of a seven-year-old at the Ryan International School, the Bengal school   has issued instructions to government and government-aided schools asking them to ensure the   of their students. CBSE and CISCE have also sent out similar instructions to the schools under their aegis. 

 The state on September 13 had advised schools to stop allowing outsiders into the school compound. In a letter to the district inspectors of schools, the government urged them to put in place a system which will provide complete protection to students in schools. “It is the responsibility of schools to make the child feel comfortable and also throw a safety net around him or her while the child is in the school,” said a source.
 
 “The aspect of safety is to be ensured by giving protection to children from outsiders and strangers. The institutes should also give protection to students from any sort of inconvenience or injury,” added the source.
 
 At Barasat PCS Government School, there is security deployed at the entrances and exits. “We have guards at the gates. But all schools may not have the opportunity or means to employ security. As a result, at times, outsiders can slip inside the school campuses. In some schools, although there are security personnel, their number is low. As a result, there are gaps in the security net. The government should sanction more security personnel for the safety of pupils,” said headmaster Narayan Das.
 
 The government has also raised an alarm over service and supply of mid-day meals and has asked the schools and district administration to serve it in a hygienic manger. Another major issue which has been addressed in the circular is to put an end to the vector-borne diseases like dengue and malaria.
 
 “Mid-day meals are not completely under control of the schools. In some schools, meals are delivered from a central canteen which caters to several other institutes. Hence, quality control is not always in our hands. The number of students who partake of the mid-day meal are few on regular days. It increases only when the menu is lavish. That’s why we find it difficult to keep count,” said principal of a government-aided school in Jadavpur.
 
 Another important aspect which the government has asked schools to look into is cybercrime and cyber threat. In Barasat PCS Government School, cybercrime workshops are regularly held. The school also bars students from accessing unauthorized websites. “We do not allow students to access social networking sites,” said the headmaster.
 
