Gandhinagar/Vadodara: Even two years after the announcement, the project of Ambedkar memorial in Vadodara, where the ‘Father of Indian Constitution’ worked as civil servant, has remained a complete non-starter.

 This, even as, the central and state government planning a mega show on April 14 to mark the 125th birth anniversary of Baba Saheb.
 
 The Gujarat Government announced in Febuary 2015 to develop ‘Sankalp Bhoomi’, Ambdedkar memorial at Vadodara also allocated Rs 10 crore for the same. 
 
 Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of the erstwhile Baroda state had facilitated his education abroad. Ambedkar was contemplating under a banyan tree at the famous Kamatibaug after facing untouchability during his stay at Vadodara. He resolved to fight for equality for all Indians at this place that was subsequently christened as Sankalp Bhoomi. The banyan tree itself fell in 2013 and a shoot from the original tree has been replanted there. When asked about the project, social justice and empowerment minister Atmaram Parmar said, “We have not been able to work on the project. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has yet not given the land. 
 
 There are technical issues like who will develop and manage the memorial. Government hopes that the VMC may take up the project or government can form some foundation or engage a NGO. 
 
 Government may decide all these issues as soon as possible.” The issue was also raised in the VMC general board on Monday by the opposition Congress, who said that their repeated letters had yielded no results. VMC mayor Bharat Dangar said that the memorial will definitely come up. “We have a meeting in Gandhinagar on Tuesday to discuss the project. All issues would be resolved in the meeting.” 
 
 Earlier, the state government had requested the Government of India for grants but those too have not come in yet. 
 
 “Once we have clearance for land and other issues are finalised than we will approach the central government,’’ Parmar added. 
 
 Last year, the state announced to launch state-wide Ambedkar yatra to mark the celebration of the 125th birth anniversary of Ambedkar but it avoided due to political reasons.
 
 
