BANKURA/RAIPUR: Udayan Das, who murdered and entombed his girlfriend Akansha Sharma, planned to kill her parents to keep the truth buried. The thought had occurred to him when he visited the Sharmas in Bankura town last October, nearly two months after he had killed Akansha and buried her in a marble tomb at his Bhopal residence. He had then invited the Sharmas to Delhi, perhaps with a plan to eliminate them.

 Why he did not act though is a mystery that cops in Bankura will try to unravel during Das' interrogation.
 
 The murder probe has already seen more skeletons tumble out with Das leading cops to   where he had murdered and buried his parents. He was escorted to Kolkata on Monday en route to Bankura where the original FIR was lodged in the case that now spans Bengal, MP and Chhattisgarh.
 
 Police sources said during his interrogation in Raipur on Saturday , Das indicated that he had thought about eliminating Sharma's parents fearing queries over their missing daughter and attempts to track her down could lead cops to his doorstep. The `confession' confirms Akansha's father Shivendra's charge that Das was planning to eliminate the family and had even visited them last October. Akansha's father Shivendra Sharma, too, suspec ted the reason behind Udayan Das's previous Bankura visit was to assess their assets. Das had earlier killed and buried his own parents in Raipur, sold off the house using forged death certificates and encashed bank deposits to go on tours to Singapore and Russia.
 
 Bankura   said the interrogation in Bankura will include the motive of his October visit, and why he did not meet the Sharmas after calling them to Delhi the next month.
 
 Shivendra recounted that Das had introduced himself as Akansha's colleague during the visit. “He had stayed in our son Ayush's room even though we had offered our guest room.It now appears that Ayush was really lucky to survive as he would have been Das's automatic target since he is the natural heir of our assets,“ said Shivendra, shivering at the thought .
 
 On Monday, the victim's maternal uncle, Rajesh Singh, revealed that Rs 1.2 lakh was missing from Akansha's bank account and accused Das of siphoning it.
 
 The investigation into Akansha's murder has so far indicated that she was murdered somewhere around August, a month-and-a-half after she left home in June claiming she was taking up a job in the US with Unicef. Since then, Das had kept in touch with the Sharmas over WhatsApp, posing as their daughter. While Das will be questio ned, police also want to question why Shivendra, a senior bank officer, didn't approach them when Das did not meet them during the three-day stay in Delhi in November and why he never doubted it was his daughter they were conversing with on WhatsApp.
 
 Police are investigating whether Akansha had grown close to Das while she was studying electronics at a   . Chhattisgarh police have registered an FIR against Das after two skeletons, believed to be that of his parents, were exhumed from a house at Raipur's Sundar Nagar.
 
