BHUBANESWAR: Death of   Subal Sahu and subsequent flight of his family members into   fold will put to test the efficacy of   to retain Bijepur assembly constituency in the ensuing bypoll. 

 In news for infighting and lobbying for leadership change in Odisha, Congress insiders said the party is yet to start groundwork for the Bijepur byelection, let alone selection of candidate. “We feel sorry that neither our state leadership nor the party high command drew any strategy for Bijepur bypoll. The party is yet to overcome the dual jolt—demise of local heavyweight Subal babu and BJD’s announcement to field his wife in the bypoll,” said a Congress leader in Bijepur. 
 
 The development assumes significance as BJD and BJP already galvanized their bases in Bijepur, even as the election commission of India is yet to announce the date of the bypoll. BJP is upbeat as the party won six of the seven seats in Bijepur in February Zila Parishad election. While BJD had won only one seat, Congress failed to open its account. 
 
 “It will definitely be a testing time for us in Bijepur, which Sahu had been representing thrice in a row since 2004. We will soon choose a suitable candidate following consultation with Congress legislature party. We hope to win the byelection,” said   general secretary in-charge of Odisha B K Hariprasad. Congress state president Prasad Harichandan, who has been facing revolt from several MLAs within the party, was unavailable for comment. 
 
 Senior Congress MLA from Jharsuguda Naba Kishore Das, who wields considerable influence in Bargarh region, exuded confidence that the party will perform well. “Our party will soon finalize name of a candidate. I don’t think Sahu’s family joining BJD will have much impact on the electoral result in Bijepur bypoll,” Das said. 
 
 Political analysts said both Congress and BJP would try to capitalise on the infighting that has been in the BJD ever since chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced late Subal Sahu’s wife Ritarani as the ruling party’s candidate in Bijepur. “We have been noticing resentment among some BJD leaders, who were aspirants for a ticket. This may work as a boon for BJD’s rivals,” said a political analyst.
 
