Indore: A jawan serving in the Army was hacked to death and another critically injured when a group of people attacked them – reportedly, the bloody outcome of a running feud over parking space – in Banganga area on Sunday night. Three others were injured in the attack that took place in the late hours in Sai Suman Nagar.

 Varun Chouhan (25) and Yogesh Pal (26) were returning after watching a mud-wrestling match on a motorcycle when the assault took place, the Banganga police said. The victims were returning home, when around 10 people, armed with swords and knives, stopped them in Kharcha area and unleashed violence.
 
 As Yogesh, who was riding pillion, got down, one of the attackers swung a sword catching Varun on the neck. Before Yogesh could recover from the shock, they surrounded him and attacked with sharp-edged weapons, police said.
 
 Hearing a commotion, Yogesh’s brother Shubham, mother Latabai and father Babulal tried to intervene, and the assailants turned on them to. The attackers fled as residents of the area came out of their houses and raised an alarm.
 
 The injured were rushed to a hospital, where Varun was declared brought-dead. Yogesh sustained critical injuries and was admitted to the ICU. Shubham, Latabai and Babulal also sustained injuries and were being treated at the hospital at the time of going to print.
 
 Banganga police station in-charge Vinod Dixit said Varun was an armyman posted in Pathankot, while Yogesh was posted in Sikkim. Both of them were in Indore on a 40-day leave.
 
 An old enmity is suspected to be the reason behind the attack, the police officer said, adding that the attackers had had an ongoing feud Yogesh’s brother over parking of a vehicle in front of their house. The dispute had often led to fights.
 
 Varun’s elder brother Arun said that the deceased had joined the army in 2015 and was posted in Pathankot, after being trained in Sikandrabad. His father had died 15 years ago, and he is survived by his mother and two elder brothers.
 
 
