JALANDHAR: After Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s disclosure about the killing of 21 militants whose surrender he arranged after talks with then Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar, demands for full disclosure, investigation and legal action are being raised. 

 Rights group   ( ) and Sikh group Dal Khalsa, in separate statements, said if it was really a burden on his conscience, he should help the truth come out and ensure justice to the families of those killed. Now that he admitted that 21 militants, whose surrender he facilitated himself, were subsequently eliminated in stage-managed encounters, he should follow it up with action, they said. 
 
 “This disclosure is from an incumbent CM and now he should make the names of the 21 and those of the guilty public. He should initiate legal action in the case. The Supreme Court and high court should also take cognisance of the disclosure made by the incumbent CM and initiate legal proceedings,” KMO activists, led by its patron Paramjit Kaur Khalra, Satwinder Singh Palasaur and Haramndeep Singh Sarhali said in a joint statement issued here. 
 
 “Amarinder is known for bold admissions and going by his character, he has made public how security forces and state police carried out illegal killings with impunity during the period of militancy. It is an admission that they were killed in fake encounters. But mere regret on deaths means little to the victims and justice-seekers. Coincidentally, he is in the saddle now and in a position to entrust a probe into the unlawful killings. If Amarinder has any burden on his conscience, doing justice to the victims can relieve him. A fair and impartial investigation is essential to bring the guilty policemen to book”, said Dal Khalsa members Kanwar Pal Singh, Satnam Singh and Ranbir Singh. 
 
 Kanwar Pal said he read the book on   and there were no detailed references of 21 militants except for Anokh Singh Ubhoke, who approached Amarinder to surrender. According to the book, he was handed over to the IB director in the presence of former PM Chandra Shekhar in 1991. Ukhoke was shown to have been killed in an encounter in December 1992. 
 
 Releasing his biography in Delhi on Wednesday evening, Captain Amarinder Singh said he arranged for the surrender of 21 militants but they were killed. “I felt betrayed by then PM Chandra Shekhar after 21 Khalistani militants I arranged to surrender were killed. Never spoke to him after that,” he tweeted.
 
 
