CHENNAI: Australia’s success over the years has a lot to do with the quality allrounders they had at their disposal. In India for the limited-overs series,   once again bank on their allrounders  ,   and   to give them the much-required balance.

 While Stoinis and Faulkner are medium-pace allrounders, Agar is a left-arm spin allrounder. Captain Steve Smith also has the advantage of using offspin part-timers Travis Head and Glenn Maxwell in the middle-overs.
 
 However, Smith is still in a dilemma whom to play in the series opener on Sunday. “I think it just depends on the conditions. We have got a spinning allrounder, we’ve got allrounders who take the pace off the ball (Faulkner and Stoinis). We’re not going to name our team today. We’re going to have a look again on the match day and see what we think is the best (XI),” Smith said.
 
 Smith took the weather forecast too into consideration. “There is a bit of a weather around (murky conditions for most part of the day on Saturday) and might be a bit of rain around on Sunday as well. It gives us a chance to have a look at that,” he added.
 
 Although both teams expect the series to be a high-scoring affair, Smith, who had earlier said that leg-spinner Adam Zampa is their trump card, mentioned the spinners are going to play a major role in the series in the middle-overs.
 
 “I still think spin could play a part, particularly in the middle overs. Just to change things up and take the pace off the ball and things like that. Spin has always played a pretty big part in ODIs particularly in these conditions. I’d say it’ll play a reasonable part throughout this series too,” he added.
 
 Sticking to spin, Smith and Co. are well aware of the wrist spin threat in the Indian camp, in particular chinaman Kuldeep Yadav. In fact, the Aussies had invited a chinaman in KK Jiyas from Kerala during the last two days of practice to get a hang of the mystery spin.
 
 “There aren’t too many around the world who bowl chinaman. They’re different, so it’s good to be able to get someone who bowls a bit of that. A few of the guys played against Kuldeep in the IPL and saw what he did in Sri Lanka as well. He is a good young talent and can be difficult to pick at times. He’s someone who you have to watch really closely. Hopefully we can put him under pressure early in his spell and try and take him for as many as we can,” said Smith.
 
 
