Nagpur: Around 5,000 cases were settled at the   held at the District court premises on Saturday. District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) under the aegis of National Authority and Maharashtra State Legal Service Authority organized the Lok Adalat to dispose off litigation and pre-litigation cases with principles of mediation and alternate dispute resolution (ADR).

 VD Dongre, chairman, DLSA, told TOI, “Today almost 12,000 litigation cases and 17,000 pre litigation cases were brought forth to be dissolved in the National Lok Adalat with the satisfactory judgment to both the parties. Notices were sent to both the parties regarding their cases and turnout this year has been very inspiring. Settlement is being done at the free will of both parties.”
 
 Dongre added that the main aim of the lok adalat is to aid the litigants in their legal matters and reducing the manpower as well as money spent by the government and litigants.
 
 Panellists for the adalat comprised sitting and retired judges, senior advocates, social workers and paralegal volunteers.
 
 “We are acting as facilitator between both the parties and provide satisfaction to both parties. Our experienced panel mediated in the settlement of cases ranging from compoundable criminal cases, family and labour matters, insurance cases, private disputes etc. Our aim is to conduct the Lok Adalat every two or three months to help people and decrease the pendency of court cases”, added Kunal Jadhav, secretary, DLSA. He added that around 200 litigation and 2,500 pre-litigation cases were solved.
 
 Jadhav informed TOI that this year, DLSA has set up a total of 57 panels, with 25 in district court, 24 in talukas, 4 in family court, 2 in Debts Recovery Tribunal and one each in cooperative and labour court. Law students were also invited to witness the proceedings and mediation procedure.
 
 Shilpa Sharma, faculty, Raisoni Law School, said, “This is a good and innovative method to provide justice and aid to public who cannot pay fees of the court during the proceedings.” Divyesh Modh, student of Raisoni Law College, added, “Lok Adalat is also known as ‘Festival of justice’ or ‘People’s Court’. ADR is one of the major ways to prevail justice without too much hassle or paper work.”
 
 Anuradha Nerkar, a litigant, told TOI that her dispute was with ICICI Lombard related to the insurance of her deceased husband which was hanging since 2015. Nerkar said, “Today ICICI Lombard agreed to pay Rs1.15 crores to me, and Lok Adalat played a major role in my case.” Nerkar added that she initially demanded 1.5 crores but Lombard refused to pay the amount, requesting to reduce it to 1 crore. Another litigant Shiv Rao settled his dispute with ICICI for Rs39 lakhs under the Motor Accidents Claim Tribunal which was pending since 2013.
 
 
