CHENNAI: The syndicate of   (UNOM) has decided to impose a penalty on many affiliated colleges which have started courses and admitted students for the present academic year (2016-17) without the university granting them the permission to run such courses. 

 This was after a report submitted by the   on recognition, affiliation and   to the syndicate on January 12 detailed the violations. TOI has a copy of the report. The committee has been strict and recommended that affiliation be granted only after all the conditions were met. The report has detailed such violations for at least 20 colleges.
 
 Syndicate members told TOI that the penalty amount would be the fee collected from the students; for instance if a college has admitted 10 students for a Bachelor in Arts (BA) course at a fee of 5,000 each, they would have to pay up 50,000. The registrar of UNOM said that it was a sensitive issue and declined to comment. 
 
 For starting courses, colleges need to apply before the start of the academic year so that they have all approvals in place before admitting students. However, the report shows that many of the colleges have not appointed enough number of qualified staff members and, in some cases, not taken approval for appointment of the principal.
 
 One particular college, which got the permission from the state government in October 2016, has already admitted students and demanded a post-facto affiliation from UNOM for the 2016-17 academic year.
 
 This college has not yet given an advertisement in newspaper for inviting applications for principal or appointed librarian, physical education director or faculty for the courses which they have started. The committee has recommended that the affiliation should be granted only after the appointments are made.
 
 One college based in Chennai has requested to admit two extra students in a B.Sc degree course, which is over and above the sanctioned strength. The committee has recommended a fee of 10,000 per student, to be borne by the college management. 
 
 A senior syndicate member, requesting anonymity, said that this showed the brazen attitude of colleges who cocked a snook at due procedure of the University. "After admitting students, the colleges emotionally blackmail the university to give post-facto approvals, citing the future of the students. They are also supported by some university officials," the syndicate member said. A source in the affiliation committee said that the issue has precipitated due to the lack of a vice-chancellor for the past one year. "The colleges had applied in Septemnber 2016. The approval was delayed," the source said.
 
  vice-chancellor   said that this situation existed in all major universities in Tamil Nadu and can be avoided by a strict VC. "Violating colleges should be disaffiliated for the indiscipline. VCs have imposed similar penalties in the past, but political appointees might not take such tough decisions," he said.
 
 
