KOLKATA: A 23-year-old student at the   (ISI) died on Tuesday after falling off the terrace of an eight-storey building on the Baranagar campus. Cops suspect second-year MStat student Rohit Das killed himself, though all possibilities are being investigated.

 Rohit’s batchmates said two security guards, alerted by a loud thud, found him lying in a pool of blood. From the way he was lying, it was clear that several of his bones were fractured. A group of students, faculty members and ISI staff rushed him to   and Hospital a few kilometres away, but he was declared dead on arrival. 
 
 Senior police officers of the   said there was little possibility of Rohit’s fall being an accident, as the roof had a parapet. A police team visited the spot and spoke to students and authorities, including the rector. “We shall also speak to family members. We are investigating all possibilities,” said Dhrubajyoti De, DCP, Zone II, Barrackpore Commissionarate.
 
 Rohit’s family in Uttarpara, Hooghly, went into shock after receiving the news. At the campus, too, there was a sense of utter disbelief. The authorities said they were yet to piece together the sequence of events that may have caused him to take such a step. They said students and hostel-mates were unaware whether he had been suffering from depression. “He was a bright student. I am too shocked to react,” said ISI director  .
 
 A teacher said students are normally tense during this time of the year, as they have to decide on their future. Rohit had possibly gone to the resident counsellor on campus on Tuesday morning. “It is possible he was depressed. I was expecting to hear good news from their batch, as placements are round the corner. He seemed happy, though a bit introverted, and preferred to keep things to himself. He even completed an internship and returned to campus. Given his academic record, it is unlikely he was under any stress,” he said. One of Rohit’s friends said he had applied in three companies, but there hadn’t been any response.
 
 After passing Class XII from Uttarpara Government High School in 2013, Rohit cleared the tough entrance examination for ISI. He completed his BStat in 2016.
 
 
