PATNA: Deputy CM   has said that   of climate change as they frequently face floods and drought that adversely affect development.
 
  He was speaking after releasing the State Action Plan Financial Framework at a national symposium on ‘Climate Change Mainstreaming in Bihar’, in Patna on Tuesday.
  
  The symposium was organised by the Centre for Environment, Energy and Climate Change at the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) in collaboration with the Action on Climate Today (ACT), DFID-Climate Change Innovation Programme.
  
  “Bihar faced disastrous floods in the years 2007, 2008, 2011, 2013, 2016 and 2017. The deluge caused loss of life and property and damages to crops, roads and other infrastructure,” Modi said.
  
  As late as 2017, floods claimed 514 lives. “The most serious aspect is that the frequency of natural disasters has been rising due to climate change,” he said and informed the audience that the state government has made a provision of Rs 68,000 crore in 2016-17 for its ten departments to deal with natural disasters.
  
  The deputy CM said it would be difficult to meet the challenge of climate change until and unless every individual of the country moderated his/her lifestyle.
  
  “The affluent will have to reduce carbon footprint. We need to create awareness about how to moderate one’s lifestyle,” he said and advised people to avoid packaged food items, plastic bags and bottles and develop the habit of switching off lights, fans and water taps when not in use.
  
  State energy minister   underlined the need for a detailed study on the impact of climate change in Bihar.
  
  On this occasion, ACT’s regional programme manager Cristina Rumbaitis del Rio and ADRI treasurer Dr Sunita Lall signed an MoU to continue working together on climate change adaptation measures in Bihar.
  
  Earlier, ADRI’s member-secretary Dr   welcomed the guests. Prof Prabhat P Ghosh, director of ADRI, spoke on the background and objectives of the climate change adaptation programmes.
