MYSURU: After a city-based youth died under mysterious circumstances in   on Saturday, where he was working as a domestic help, his family members are struggling to have his mortal remains brought to the country. They alleged that his employment agent was demanding Rs 3 lakh to send the body to India, and have sought the intervention of Mysuru MP Pratap Simha in the issue.

 Shabir, 27, the only son of Wazir Saab and Dilshad, was a resident of Vidyaranyapuram. Nine months ago, with the help of a distant relative Khaleel, Shabir entered the service of a sheikh in Dammam in Saudi Arabia.
 
 Shabir's relative Aftab   told TOI, “Khaleel has been working as a mechanic in Saudi Arabia for the past 12 years. He helped Shabbir get a job in Saudi Arabia, for a monthly salary of Rs 22,000.“
 
 Shabir's family members suspect foul play. They alleged that a dispute broke out between Shabir and Khaleel on Saturday over a new expensive phone that the former had purchased. “We suspect the two of them must have got into a fight, leading to Shabir's death,“ a relative pointed out.
 
 Ahmad Khan said, “Khaleel called me late on Saturday night to tell me that Shabir had committed suicide.He said that Shabir had hanged himself in his room with the help of a vest.“
 
 Ahmad Khan said Shabir's phone had not been reachable since Saturday night. His friends sent photographs of Shabir hanging in his room to his family members. “We can see Shabir's legs touching the ground in these photographs, which is why we suspect foul play,“ Ahmad Khan said. He said Khaleel called the family at 3am on Sunday. “He said that Shabir's body would be sent to Mysuru if the family agreed to send him Rs 3 lakh,“ Ahmad Khan added.
 
 The family met Simha on Sunday, and urged him to talk to the authorities concerned to help bring Shabir's body home. DC D Randeep told TOI, the family members “If the family members approach me, I will talk to the officials in the ministry of external affairs, and arrange for the body to be brought to India.“
 
