New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday ordered Delhi Police to ensure that the vice-chancellor and other staffers of JNU have unhindered access to the administrative block.

 HC said the police should make necessary arrangements so that the VC and other officials are not stopped from entering or exiting the administrative block.
 
 Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva further directed that any ‘dharna’ or protest at the university shall be held peacefully but not within 100 metres of the administrative block as mentioned in the university’s rule book. The court said that it expects the police to comply with these directions but clarified that they should be sensitive in dealing with students so that there are no flare ups or untoward incidents.
 
 HC also issued notice to the Jawaharlal Nehru University Students Union (JNUSU) and sought the presence of their office bearers on the next date to explain the reason for their agitation and to hear their grievances.
 
 The court said it wanted the student leaders present since “the issue pertains to a university and the relation between the university and students” and dialogue is better than any adjudication. “I feel, the issue instead of being strictly adjudicated should be resolved by way of dialogue, mediation and counselling,” the judge observed while hearing the plea filed by   seeking police protection to carry out day to day work.
 
 The students are protesting against the recent amendments made in the JNU admission policy which they claim will lead to a massive cut in MPhil and PhD seats. The admission policy was framed subsequent to a University Grants Commission (UGC) notification of May 5 last year capping the number of students per supervisor in MPhil and PhD courses.
 
 The JNU administration, which had come to court against the blocking of its administrative block by agitating students, said the “university will install CCTV cameras in and around the administrative building” to step up security.
 
 HC then asked it to preserve 30 days footage of the cameras and to make it available to local police, if required by them.
 
 
