Thiruvananthapuram: Taking heed of the massive number of accidents in the city, the traffic police are all set to launch awareness campaigns about lane driving. Though most of the newly-widened roads have well-marked lanes, motorists are unawareness of lane discipline. Traffic police officers have pointed out that spreading awareness and implementation of lane driving would be the only solution to the recurring accidents.

 A recently conducted study by National Transport Planning and Research Centre (Natpac) had found that the city has one first order black spot (Thiruvallam-Kovalam stretch) and three second order black spots (Karamana, Pappanamcode and Pattom to Plamoodu). The police are planning to reduce the number of accidents in these areas. The campaigns on lane driving will be launched in connection with ‘Subhayathra 2017’, an initiative of the state traffic police to reduce the number of road accidents. “Public should strictly adhere to lane driving in order to avoid accidents, especially in the areas which are identified as black spots. We are planning to launch LT-mobile (lane traffic-mobile), which is an awareness cum enforcement vehicle which will have keep-left sign boards to guide the vehicles that is riding behind in the lane. We have already launched a LT-mobile in Kochi some months ago and it had helped a lot in the enforcement of lane driving. The campaign along with other schemes is in its inception stage now,” said Arul R B Krishna, DCP (traffic).
 
 “At present there are no facilities to identify the people who dodge the traffic light. People not following lane driving is the major reason for accidents,” said Bijoy P, SP (traffic south zone).
 
 Meanwhile, TRDCL vice-president Anil Kumar Pandala pointed out that a campaign for lane driving will not work out in a society which has no sense of road discipline. “In Kerala, majority of people are illiterate about traffic discipline, let alone lane driving. The lack of enforcement of lane driving is the main reason behind the increasing number of road accidents. Firstly, rules for maintaining minimum distance between vehicles should be enforced. ,” he added.
 
 Motor vehicles inspector Brinda Sanil said that lane driving should be made compulsory everywhere in the city. “Road behaviour of motorists as well as pedestrians is the reason behind all road accidents. People should be taught how to maintain distance between vehicles on road and creating awareness about lane driving is very vital especially in places like Karamana-Kaliyikkavila stretch, which has six lanes,” she said.
 
 
