MUMBAI:   plans to extend some of its services originating or terminating in Andheri to   once the   line corridor is extended to this station by March. The move will be a boon for commuters in the western suburbs and is expected to significantly ease crowds at Andheri.

 The Harbour Line extension to Goregaon is part of the   Project-II, which is being executed by the   (MRVC). As of now, the Harbour Line corridor on WR, which operates from Andheri, caters to services to CST and Panvel. However, after the extension of the tracks, the route will remain under-utilised if only Harbour trains are operated on it. CR has not yet specified how many of its Andheri services will shift to Goregaon.
 
 Meanwhile, WR has already begun a study on shifting some of its Churchgate-bound services to Goregaon from Andheri.
 
 A senior WR official said, “We run a total of 34 services between Churchgate-Andheri from the Harbour platform at Andheri. Of these, around 20 services can be shifted to Goregaon, which will be a huge relief for commuters of this suburb. Of these, three to four services each can operate during the morning and evening peak hour.”
 
 The official further said, “There are only 91 services operating between CST-Andheri on the Harbour line. We are aware that some will shift to Goregaon, but the path on the extended route would still remain under-utilised unless we decided to migrate some Andheri-Churchgate services to Goregaon.”
 
 MRVC had initially hoped to commission the Harbour services up to Goregaon by June 2014. However, the ‘right of way’ was not available due to the presence of some structures. Now the structures have been removed and work is going on in full swing. An MRVC official said, “Work is expected to be complete by April, if not by March 2017.”
 
 However, once the tracks, over-head equipment (OHE) and signalling system is in place, the commissioner of railway safety (CRS) will have to give its approval before the trains can run on the section.
 
 WR runs few a services originating from Goregaon as well as Malad but commuters say these are grossly inadequate as the number of passengers have increased due to growth in population, especially in and around Dindoshi in Goregaon (West) and Link Road in Goregaon (East).
 
 Commuters said boarding any train from Goregaon is a nightmare. Goregaon commuter Anish Khan said, “Trains come overcrowded from Borivli and Virar. We have to let go of many trains before making a successful attempt to board the train. The Goregaon local will help us breathe easy.” Another commuter Sucharita Naik said, “We take share autorickshaws to Andheri station from Goregaon on the Western Express Highway. It is costly, but at least it is better than risking our lives in an overcrowded train.”
 
 However, Andheri resident Amey Naik said, “Instead of taking away services from Andheri, the Railways should run new services from Goregaon as crowds have increased after the Metro service was introduced.”
 
