Bhopal: State cabinet on Tuesday endorsed inking of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for the formation of a joint venture company with Indian Railways to increase railway connectivity and network. Madhya Pradesh has one of the lowest raildensity in the country with 17 km of train tracks per 1000 sq km as against the national average of 24 km.

 This would be for the first time when despite railways being in the central list, the state government will have a 51% share of joint venture company and would bear the same amount of monetary burden for increasing railway network. The decision comes soon after the Union government did away with a separate annual railway budget.
 
 Briefing the media after the cabinet meeting on Monday, finance minister Jayant Malaiya said, “Cabinet under the leadership of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan endorsed formation of a joint venture company between the state and the Indian Railways to increase railway connectivity in the state. Chief secretary of the state will be chairman of the company and state government will have 51% share while Union government will pitch in with 49%.”
 
 Malaiya confirmed this is a new concept that is being introduced to have the state government’s participation for laying railway tracks. He said projects will be proposed, prepared and after approval will be implemented through the joint venture company.
 
 For funds, the state government will initially start with an initial contribution worth Rs 100 crore. “Thereafter, the state will arrange funds by borrowing from financial institutions,” Malaiya said. This means, the state government already reeling under a huge loan burden will have to take fresh loans if it wants the railway connectivity to improve.
 
 Formation of the joint venture company will be executed by the state transport department. The company will be responsible only for laying railway tracks while trains will be run by the Indian Railways. The company will conduct surveys, prepare detailed projects and manage the monetary affairs. Thirty years after the railway tracks become operational, they will be handed-over to the Union ministry of railways.
 
 
