THANE: Independent candidates contesting the civic elections here could face a daunting task in the four-panel system of elections where voters are said to have shown limited support to the nominees from non-established or popular political parties.

 A majority of independent candidates, who were considering to throw their hat in the ring, are now rethinking their decisions after analyzing the Herculean task that lies ahead of them.
 
 Dr. Mridul Nile, associate professor at the department of civic and politics,  , said that the new panel system doesn’t provide a level- playing opportunity to all candidates. While a candidate from an established group can ride piggyback on its manpower, those contesting independently will have a tough job managing the entire show themselves.
 
 Under the present four-panel system where voters from four wards will cast their ballot, the independent candidate will have to secure a sizeable number of votes from a constituency of more than 45,000 voters who are part of the freshly redrawn wards. The existing system is likely to increase the volume of his target audience by nearly four times, which could pose a challenge considering his limited resources. ‘‘Not only does the independent candidate need to reach out to nearly 45,000 people in the ward, but also has to ensure a huge number for ensuring victory in the ward,’’ which seems unfair.
 
 Further, supposing he would have needed around 4-5,000 votes for a comfortable margin as per the old system, he will now have to garner nearly four times more votes to retain his seat, which is a daunting task. ‘‘I have been actively working in a small pocket of Naupada , but now with the new system in place, I may have to rethink before taking the plunge,’’ said  , an aspiring candidate.
 
 Activist-turned politician   said the four-panel system will easily push independents out of the race and give a leverage to established parties in the fray who have the money and manpower to reach out on a large scale.
 
 The situation, in comparison, is easier for heavyweights like the   and Sena or maybe the NCP who can use their volunteers to help reach out.
 
 
