GURUGRAM: Commute on the highway was a nightmare for most of Wednesday, with a lane each on either side blocked by construction work for the   underpass. It was made worse by unusually high traffic that had hit city roads, as the jam spilled on to service lanes and arterial roads. The highway was cleared only by afternoon, i.e., five hours later, but service lanes continued to be gridlocked throughout the day. 

 It was precipitated by a pit NHAI had dug in the night before, for the foundation of a pillar of the underpass. Around a metre-and-a-half wide, the pit at Iffco Chowk divider near Sukhrali cut blocked a lane each on either carriageway, creating bottlenecks.
 
 By 9.30am, Iffco Chowk was the epicenter of thick  . On the Delhi-Jaipur route, vehicles didn’t get enough passage at the C-cut near ABW Towers, which soon led to tailbacks till Shankar Chowk. Across the road, vehicles had an equally narrow passage, and tailbacks continued till Jharsa village. Service lanes and routes between Signature Tower and South City 1, Iffco Chowk and sector 17/18 crossing, MG Road and MDI to Atul Kataria Chowk were choked by 10am.
 
 A fortnight ago, traffic police had asked NHAI not to expand construction work without informing them, but the highways body failed to do so, resulting in the jam.
 
 By noon, heavy vehicles had entered the city. Sources revealed there were at least 30% more heavy vehicles on Wednesday, as Delhi Police had announced it would seal borders by 8pm, for Republic Day on Thursday, and Haryana Police had followed suit, declaring it would close borders by 5pm. This meant heavy vehicles wouldn’t be allowed in Gurgaon till Friday. As trucks rushed towards Delhi, snarls ensued and there was an average delay of 30-45 minutes.
 
 “I crossed the stretch twice as I had to visit a friend in Sushant Lok. It took over two hours on the way, and one and a half hours while returning to Maharana Pratap Chowk. My whole afternoon was wasted,” said Sumant Modi, a college student.
 
 Over 75 traffic cops, in addition to highway inspectors, eventually took charge, but the jam could only be cleared by 2.30pm, though there was heavy traffic throughout the day, with delays lasting for 15-25 minutes on the stretches. Later, a meeting was held between traffic cops and NHAI. “We’ve asked them to inform us in advance, even if they dig in the night, so that we can take measures,” said  , joint commissioner of police, Gurgaon. 
 
 
