NEW DELHI: President   hailed the 
  and the surgical strikes on terror launchpads across the LoC in his address to the joint sitting of Parliament on Tuesday. The President’s speech also indicated that the government’s third Budget, to be presented on Wednesday, may provide more funds for schemes focusing on the poor, farmers and other vulnerable groups of society. 

 In the speech, which is the government’s narrative on what it has done during the year and what it plans to do in the new financial year, the President said, “At the core of all my government’s policies is the welfare of the garib, Dalit, peedit, shoshit, vanchit, kisan, shramik and yuva. My government is guided by the Antyodaya philosophy of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. Financial inclusion is key to poverty alleviation.” 
 
 With BJP engaged in a tough 
  , increased government spending would be a politically prudent move to assuage the poor and farmers who were hit by the demonetisation move. Terming demonetisation as a “bold decision in the interest of the poor”, the President said, “The resilience and forbearance demonstrated by our countrymen, particularly the poor, recently in the fight against black money and corruption is remarkable.” 
 
 Speaking on the 
  , the President said it was a decisive step to give a fitting reply to the repeated incursions on India’s territorial sovereignty. “On September 29, 2016, our defence forces successfully conducted surgical strikes at several launch pads along the LoC to prevent infiltration by terrorists. We are proud of the exemplary courage and valour displayed by our defence personnel and owe a debt of gratitude to them,” he said. 
 
 India has been widely acclaimed as a bright spot in the global economy at a time when global growth has been slow, the President said. He added that inflation, balance of payments, current account deficit and fiscal deficit had consistently reduced since 2014. He said FDI and foreign exchange reserves had reached record levels and the country’s macro economic fundamentals were very strong, creating a platform for sustained high growth. Prices of pulses were under control after the government took proactive steps, Mukherjee said, emphasising that the government’s focus had been on “holistic development” of the farm sector. 
 
 He mentioned that the acreage under kharif and rabi crops had risen this year on account of favourable monsoon after consecutive years of drought. Mukherjee said Jammu and Kashmir had been affected by terrorism sponsored and supported from across the border. Mukherjee also said the government had 
  . 
 
 During his hour long speech, the President mentioned the word poor at least 21 times and farmers and kisan nine times.
 
