HYDERABAD: City police are on tenterhooks. Reason: Brokers, who engage  , are going incognito while booking rooms for their prospective clients. 

 The rise in use of third-party websites to book rooms has resulted in a shift in sale of sex online. Incidentally, it has made it easier for pimps to avoid detection. 
 
 In a raid on a prominent hotel at Somajiguda on Friday, police learnt that rooms were booked using a third party   and fake IDs were provided during check-in, which meant there was no paper trail to the organiser of the prostitution ring.
 
 Acting on a specific alert,   sleuths conducted a decoy operation and arrested one Narasimha, a pimp who was acting at the behest of the prostitution racket organiser. Narasimha's boss Sandeep reportedly operates on WhatsApp from Goa and he recently brought a 22-year-old model from Delhi to Hyderabad and made her check into the star hotel.
 
 "The organiser had booked the room through a travel website. So, the hotel management had no information about the payment gateway. They only had information about the rooms booked," Task Force inspector Raja Venkat Reddy said. 
 
 He further added that most of the victims were aged between 20-25 years and their clients were upper middle-class men aged between 25-55 years. 
 
 Senior police officials, however, confess that the internet has made their task tougher. "Earlier, the brokers used to maintain physical record of their clients and the women they provided. Now, the records are all digital. It is difficult for us to crack the case. Now, we have to obtain records from the website used to book rooms to cross-check details," a senior Task Force official said. 
 
 Officials rue that they were able to get information about such rackets from tip-offs from their sources.
 
 According to the   data, 72 cases of prostitution were booked in Hyderabad last year. 
 
 "There could be many more cases, but most cases are dismissed as petty cases," assistant commissioner of police ( ) city crime records bureau G Jogaiah said.
 
