MUMBAI: India and   Bangalore skipper Virat Kohli, down with a shoulder injury right now that he suffered during the third Test against Australia, could end up missing the first six or seven matches for his team this   ( ) season.

 Kohli, who missed his first Test match after a stretch of 54 consecutive five-day games since India's 2011 tour of the West Indies, sustained the injury to his right shoulder in Ranchi when he dived to stop a boundary at wide long-on but landed heavily on his shoulder.
 
 Sources in the know of things said: "He's recovering very well but it's been a long, very long, wearing out home season. He needs a break". The skipper, also one of IPL's most sought-after names especially after his batting performances for the franchise last year, could find himself back in the RCB dressing room either for their April 23 match in Kolkata or the April 25 game against   at home.
 
 Kohli missing the IPL, although partly, tops the list of big India names that are bowing out of the tournament this season because of injury or fatigue.
 
 The skipper's RCB teammate KL Rahul, meanwhile, is traveling to London for a surgery to his shoulder and sources said the team has already put in a request to seek a replacement. Chennai-based offspinner   is set to miss the entire tournament because of a muscle strain. Those in the know of things say "Ashwin is fine and could participate in the tournament but if anybody's had a tiring year, it's him. And he's got to be fit and fresh for the Champions Trophy. So, he's just taking it easy".
 
 Meanwhile, Murali Vijay ­ the Chennai-based batsman who plays for Kings XI Punjab ­ has been asked to undergo a rehab to rest his shoulder and is presently seeking medical advice. The opening batsman too is all set to miss out on the entire duration of the tournament. Barring Mumbai Indians, almost every other franchise is hurting somewhere or the other.Ravindra Jadeja, the star allrounder in the series against Australia, is gearing up to play for Gujarat Lions but will be look ing to take it easy after a season as gruelling as one that has Ashwin sidelined. Delhi Daredevils have been hit by the absence of JP Duminy and Quinton de Kock with mentor Rahul Dravid calling them "huge losses".
 
