GURUGRAM: Hundreds of people working in the factories in the Sector 37 industrial area on Tuesday approached the lead district manager RC   urging him to help them open  . These employees working in the different factories in the area said they have been facing difficulties in receiving their salaries over the past three months after the demonetisation move.

 Following the November 8 note ban announcement last year, around 350 labour camps have been organised in Gurgaon in the last three months, and around 55,000 daily wagers have got their bank accounts opened, according to the official figures. However, there are still tens of thousands of people, as per rough estimates, who have not been getting their salaries as they do not have bank accounts.
 
 Some of the factory employees have alleged the staff in the banks has not been cooperative. “We were told that Aadhar card is mandatory to get a bank account. However, even when we carried Aadhar cards, we faced difficulty in getting the account opened,” said Umesh Kumar, who works in a garment manufacturing unit.
 
 Raju, who also works with a factory in Sector 37 industrial area, said he has been trying hard to make ends meet for the last three months. “My landlord is threatening to throw me out as I have not been paying the rent. But I haven’t got my full   yet. The employer says he will transfer it to my bank account but I do not have an account. I am managing household expenses by borrowing money.”
 
 Explaining the aftermath of   in the factories in Sector 37 industrial area, Satyender Singh, a union leader, said, "There are hundreds of   who still haven't got their salaries because they do not have bank accounts. The employers say that they cannot pay so many workers in cash because even if one person is given Rs 10,000 a month, even then they need to have lakhs of rupees to pay 50-100 people.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the lead district manager   told TOI that the employers have not been sharing the required details with him.
 
 “As per rules, a company has to share the details of their official retail banker with the lead district manager. After this, the lead district manager instructs the bank to hold camps and open bank accounts for the employees. However, no company has written to us about this issue, probably, because the employer has to be the guarantor if the employee cannot produce the required documents. Still, we will hold more camps there for workers,” Nayak explained.
 
 
