Bengaluru: Hundreds of students appearing for the   Kannada examination on Thursday had a tense morning answering the paper, after noticing several mistakes in the questions. They said they had to write the answers based on their own assumptions, as they couldn’t make out what was printed on the  .

 A student of a city school, requesting anonymity, told TOI that the words in most questions had ‘aum’ and ‘arkavaththu’ missing. “Our invigilators took 15 minutes to rectify all the questions and had given us 20 minutes extra to complete the paper as well. After they corrected the first question, we were able to start writing the paper which was otherwise quite easy,” the student said. 
 
 Chetan Singh, a parent, informed TOI that his daughter returned home with a tense look on her face. “I couldn’t believe that there were more than 15-20 spelling mistakes in the question paper, significantly affecting entire sentences,” he said. 
 
 “My daughter complained that even the invigilators at her centre in Rajarajeshwari Nagar couldn’t identify what was actually printed and had to write the paper, assuming what was printed,” Singh added.
 
 Anahita Kallur, a student of a school in North Bengaluru, added that although she had done well, a lot of time was wasted in trying to make sense of the text. “I think I’ve done well but there were so many mistakes in the paper that I hope it doesn’t affect my performance badly,” she said.
 
 Maureen Ojha, principal, Turnbridge High School, said that there was one visually impaired student from her school who appeared for the Kannada examination, but the matter was reported to the school by the council. She said, “The council had intimated us that there was a problem with the spellings in the question paper but we were able to take care of it and the student has done her paper well enough.”
 
 Officials at the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination said that they had received the information regarding mistakes in the question paper and were looking into it. “Parents can mail us at ces@cisce.org for further details or queries,” the officials said. 
 
 
