GURUGRAM: YP Anand is in his seventies. His feet don’t have the strength they once used to and he must be careful while walking. These days, he has simply stopped stepping out of home because he needs a smooth surface to walk without the fear of stumbling or falling, and there are none in Sushant Lok, his neighbourhood.

 Sushant Lok is one of the three privately developed neighbourhoods, besides the DLF phases 1-3 and Palam Vihar, that were to pass into the custody of the MCG for maintenance last year after chief minister   made the announcement on February 4. Instead, what happened was that these places turned into no-man’s land. 
 
 The developers were no longer interested because MCG was to take over maintenance, and the MCG refused to do so till the private companies fixed infrastructure deficiencies. This sent the entire process into a spiral of delays. A year on, Sushant Lok’s crumbling internal roads stand testimony to the civic dysfunction that these otherwise tony neighbourhoods find themselves in.
 
 And while residents continue to pay both property tax and maintenance charges, they are not getting these services.
 
 At the root of why the civic transfer is stuck is a basic document — the completion certificate. None of the developers has got one yet, and without it, a takeover is not legally possible. The MCG has cited the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act 1975 to argue that developers need to procure completion certificates first. In the absence of legal ownership, it is not feasible to use public money on maintenance and infrastructure work, is how MCG has argued its case.
 
 The lack of completion certificates is surprising as none of these areas is new —allotments for Sushant Lok 1 and Palam Vihar started in 1985, and for DLF areas a year earlier (1984). 
 
 A K  , president of the Sushant Lok RWA, said, “The previous MCG commissioner had said the developer must rectify infrastructural deficiencies before the takeover. Accordingly, we had drawn up a plan for the developer, but it backed out.”
 
 Officials in the town and country planning department (DTCP) said the developers had not received completion certificates because some infrastructure work is still pending. “None of the developers has approached us for a completion certificate either,” said a senior DTCP official. 
 
 Another DTCP official said developers haven’t been too keen on the completion papers because they handled maintenance themselves all these years. “The day developers get completion certificates, they stop getting money from residents for maintenance,” said the official.
 
 Dhruv Bansal, president of Qutub Enclave Residents’ Welfare Association, said, “It is difficult to understand why even after the CM’s announcement things have not moved. In the meantime, developers have given up even basic maintenance work.” In the DLF phases, old power infrastructure leads to frequent outages, residents complain.  , president of the Palam Vihar RWA, blamed the government. “We are ready for the takeover, but the government is still not as it involves a huge responsibility. They are taking taxes and expenditure is zero, but they know they will have to be answerable to residents for the lack of infrastructure,” he said.
 
 MCG commissioner V Umashankar said the civic body had sent a representation to the urban local bodies department and the DTCP. “We have expedited the matter (transfer) after residents’ protests demanding MCG takeover of their areas,” he said. The developers, Ansal API and DLF, did not respond to calls and text messages for their comment. TOI will publish the comments when they offer their views.
 
