KOLHAPUR: Corporators cutting   lines slammed the  ,   and   for delays and alleged irregularities in the ambitious Kalammawadi  

 During the general body meeting held on Friday, the corporators forced the civic administration to initiate inquiry against officials for issuing faulty bills to the contractors.
 
 The corporators even alleged that the difference between the estimates of the works proposed and actual costs of the works is around Rs 50 crore and suspected there is a scam involved in the project floated to provide clean and regular water supply to the citizens.
 
 Satyajeet Kadam, corporator of Tararani Aghadi, said “The difference between the actual cost and estimated cost is around Rs 10 crore in each major work proposed in the project. The design of the jack-well has been designed such that it will cost the KMC additional Rs 15 crore. We demand that every bill should be cleared after confirming that the work is done.”
 
 Sunil Kadam, another corporator of Tararani Front, without naming Satej Patil and Hasan Mushriff of Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) alleged that the two ministers who got the project are involved in the corruption taken place in the project.
 
 After his statement, the ruling corporators created ruckus for a while and demanded Kadam to prove his allegations with evidence. Countering the allegations by the opposition NCP's senior corporator Jayant Patil said he was the first to raise doubts in the project and the Congress and NCP never indulged in corrupt practices levelled by the opposition.
 
 “Two years ago I had raised doubts over the detailed project report (DPR). It was only because of us that the civic administration had to change the route of the pipeline project. The consultant was finalised by the then members of the standing committee. The tenders were finalised by the committee and they too have responsibility of the mess created today,” he said.
 
 Since the last few weeks both factions are involved in verbal war over the alleged irregularities in the project. The opposition had claimed that the civic administration had cleared the bills of Rs 2.2 crore for the works with actual cost Rs 25 lakh.
 
 The civic administration, too, agreed the mistake and claimed that the amount issued was for nine such works proposed along the routes and the bill cleared was a lump sum amount.
 
 Vijay Suryawanshi, leader of Opposition and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator said the civic administration has inspected the quality of the pipes used from the agency that has been blacklisted by other municipal corporations.
 
