NEW DELHI: A tech park near Thiruvananthapuram has take a big step in its attempt to ensure unfettered power supply to the companies operating out of its campus.   is now looking at a   to improve upon efficiency in transmission, and trasnlate the gains to greater availability of electricity for its sprawling campus.

 Technopark is among India's largest Information Technology (IT) park in terms of built up area. It spans about 9.3 lakh square metres, and is home to more than 350 companies which employ over 50,000 people. 
 
 Technopark's order for a 110 kilovolt (kV) digital substation is aimed at using the advances in digital transmission.
 
 Why digital? Because it is simpler to maintain and extend and more compact, flexible, reliable and safe compared with a traditional substation. In addition, one of the major impacts of digitisation is that real-time data can be acquired and managed, which would result in greater cost efficiency. 
 
 "This will be among the first digital substations in India and supports the country's vision of smarter grids and cities", said Claudio Facchin, president of  's Power Grids division, which has been awarded the contract for this project.
 
 Using fibre-optic cabling instead of copper wires reduces material and labour costs and also affords a more optimized panel design. Digitizing signals at their source reduces the risk of electrical hazards to operators, which in turn creates a safer work environment. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 A digital substation uses about 60 percent less space in its relay house, compared with a conventional substation. And as the digital substation's equipment is also enabled for digital communication, it will allow Technopark to monitor and maintain equipment in an easier manner, as it will use real-time data. "It's new technology. We, at Technopark, are always interested in clean, green technology," says Ansaj NS, Assistant Manager (Electrical) at Technopark. 
 
 "India is today a global hub for digital services and transitioning from conventional to the digital power grid is the need of the hour. Digital substations are more dependable and flexible while reducing life-cycle cost and physical footprint," said Pitamber Shivnani, President, Power Grids Division,  .
 
 India is the world's third-largest energy consumer and demand for power is only growing. Digital substations can be adapted to the country's growing power needs - especially for industrial campuses and IT parks, significantly enhancing 'Make in India' initiatives and PM Modi government's vision of providing 24/7 access to electricity for all.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
