KOLHAPUR: Goddess Mahalaxmi has got a 23.5 kg golden   with contributions from more than 26,000 devotees across the country. But, the basic facilities on the temple premises continue to be in a bad shape as the temple committee has turned a blind eye towards these problems.

 Shri Karveer Nivasani Mahalaxmi Suvarna Palkhi Trust (palanquin trust) has handed over the palanquin to officials of the   (PMDS) on May 1, in a traditional religious ceremony. 
 
 Despite making heavy donations for the palanquin, the devotees have been facing lack of basic facilities such as drinking water and a permanent shelter for ‘darshan’ queue. Though the temple management has erected a temporary shelter on the premises, it falls short during the rush periods on weekends and other important days.
 
 The devotees coming from other states face many problems as they fail to under understand the Marathi signboards. The management has failed to provide information regarding parking, donations, etc, in Hindi, English and other languages. 
 
 Nilesh Tupe, a devotee from Pune who recently visited the temple, said, “The problems starts at the parking space on the temple premises. There is no proper parking facility, or proper information centre to provide information about rituals. Lack of cold water facility forces devotees to buy packaged mineral water. It is not possible for the common man to buy packaged water. The temple management should provide the facilities.”
 
 Another devotee, Tukaram Yenege from  , said, “The Mahalaxmi temple lacks facilities for devotees to stay. Devotees have to rely on private accommodations which are expensive. People have no option other than stand under the sky even in summer and in rainy days. There should be a permanent shelter for the ‘darshan’ queue.”
 
 Vijay Powar, secretory of the Paschim Maharahstra a  , said, “It is true that there are no permanent sign boards in other languages. But during the nine-day festival period, we take temporary measures for devotees from other states. The permanent shelter for ‘darshan’ queue is part of the temple development plan.”
 
 
