NEW DELHI: It is common enough to see cars in the city driving in a direction prohibited on that width of the road. Most streets in Delhi allow   to move in opposite directions on either side of the central divider. 

 But often enough, the bunching up of traffic due to the traffic lights or a vehicle breaking down sends scores driving illegally on the wrong side of the divider. According to a traffic police study, almost 30% of   are caused by this dangerous convenience of driving into  . Though the cops have already booked 1,53,891 drivers till date, they admit that it is a losing game.
 
 When TOI caught Suresh Kumar (name changed) a school van driver, driving on the wrong side on Mall Road near Delhi University with around 10 children in his Maruti Eeco recently, he pleaded that driving a few metres on the prohibited lane saved him fuel. 
 
 “There are no U-turns till Chhatra Marg and it is easier for me drive this way for a few metres,” said Kumar, rather unapologetically.
 
 Such expediency can prove  . In March, four people were severely injured when the BMW car they were travelling in rammed into four vehicles while driving on the wrong side near RK Puram. The driver explained that he was in a hurry to reach his destination and had lost control of the speeding car while trying to avoid autorickshaws parked by the roadside. 
 
 What aggravates the problem is the city’s usual disregard for traffic rules and road etiquette. Drivers use every ruse in a me-first frenzy on the streets. Given this on-road belligerence, the traffic cops make only feeble attempts to impose discipline, like identifying 14 roads last year and deploying special teams to check motorists driving on the wrong side.
 
 Police officers say that stretches with no central verge and ones pitted with holes or prone to traffic jams see the most cases of wrong-side driving. “The civic bodies and PWD must ensure that road dividers near the exits of colonies have adequate gaps to allow vehicles to cross,” advised road expert KK Kapila. “Delhi Police must also start surveillance on marked stretches, including those near markets and malls, especially during weekends and peak school hours.”
 
 Explaining why people look for easy ways out of congestions, Kapila pointed out, “It is said that six years of a city resident’s life is spent in traffic snarls. Gridlocks cost seven million man hours and Rs 100 crore in productivity every year.”
 
 Delhi Police has sought the permission of the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety to seize licences for such violations. Currently, traffic police can recommend suspension or cancellation of licences to the transport department, which then sends a notice to the offender for the surrender of the licence. Mostly, however, the notices remained un-served. Even when asked to physically present themselves with the licence at a local transport office, violators often ignore the orders. A licence is considered valid so long as it is in the possession of the holder.
 
 
