PATNA: With last year’s infamous topper scam still fresh in minds, the   (BSEB) is leaving no stone unturned to conduct the ongoing Intermediate examinations in a “free and fair” manner. TOI’s   caught up with   to know the steps the examination board has taken this year to curb malpractices. Excerpts: 

 Q. Despite strict measures, use of unfair means is still rampant. Why so?
 
 Along with the government, it is also the responsibility of the parents to desist their children from using unfair means. We have decided to launch a district-wise awareness campaign to address the issue. Cooperation of the society is a must to improve the system.
 
 Q. How many examinees have been expelled till today?
 
 At least 1,304. 
 
 Q. The physics question paper was leaked in Aurangabad on Friday. What action have you taken against the culprits?
 
 First of all, it was not a leak. Leaks take place before the examination and not after the students get the question papers. However, eight people have been arrested so far in connection with the case. The role of a private coaching institute, Narayana, is also under scanner. 
 
 Q.   (BSSC) chairman Sudhir Kumar had written to the home secretary to suspend internet services at places with exam centres to prevent spread of rumours on question paper leak. Have you taken any such initiative?
 
 No, we have no such plans. If need be, internet services would be suspended at places with examination centres in future.
 
 Q. The BSEB has made several changes in the examination system in the wake of last year’s topper scam. What, according to you, is the most important change? 
 
 The most important change is bar coding of answersheets. In course topper scam investigation, it came to light that the answersheets were tampered with. Either the blank pages were filled later on or the entire answer booklet was replaced. However, the answersheets which would now be sent for evaluation, would not have any information of the candidate, except the barcode. 
 
 Q. Many students, who submitted the forms online this year, did not get admit card. Some received admit cards with full of errors. As a result, they are not writing papers. How would you justify this?
 
 The online system was introduced to check errors. However, some students got admit cards with certain errors. The number is just around 500. These students would be allowed to appear in the examination later on.
 
 
