LUDHIANA: A day after a major chunk of road caved in near   market, the Ludhiana municipal corporation decided to take stringent measures against illegal digging of roads by telecom and cable companies to lay underground wires. The civic body would recommend on-the-spot FIRs against the companies.

 The officials have already started a door-to-door survey in various parts of city to check total cable connections in houses. From this survey, they will also come to know about illegal cable laying work in particular areas.
 
 The illegal digging of roads leads to several issues like damage to water supply and sewerage lines and even roads have caved in several times especially in the rainy season. Therefore, the local bodies department has issued these directions to all MCs, including Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Amritsar and Bathinda. The government has asked the officials to take this illegal digging as encroachment on government land and a factor that leads to financial loss to the departments. Moreover, the public infrastructure also gets damaged several times.
 
 Issuing the orders, the government has asked the officials to check illegal digging and go ahead in getting a police case registered against the company followed by which the user charges along with penalty should be recovered from the company.
 
 Meanwhile, one of the officials requesting anonymity said they recommend the   against the telecom companies in case they catch anybody red-handed. Now after receiving the orders, they would do it on a regular basis, they added.
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh admitted that they have received the government orders to get FIR registered against companies for laying underground cables without permission.
 
 Recently, local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu had highlighted the loss to government exchequer due to illegal cable mafia. The government had even hiked the road cutting rates threefold just to keep tabs on the excess digging of roads.
 
 Box: Illegal digging of roads a major issue
 
 In   area, a major diarrhea outbreak was reported in the last week of June. The main cause was contaminated water supply. During checking, the officials found damaged water supply lines in   and these lines were damaged by a private telecom company. Despite recommendation, the officials did not take any action against the company. Several incidents have taken place earlier too. 
 
