JODHPUR: Despite the initial attempts to keep the incident under wraps, it has now come to the fore that barrel of the one of the two M-777 155mm, 39-caliber Ultra Lightweight Howitzers ( ) which reached India on May 18 was damaged during the trials in   on September 2.

 As per the Army officials, it so happened that the   was firing the Indian ammunition and the projectile, instead of ejecting out in single piece, ejected from the barrel in multiple pieces thereby damaging the barrel of the artillery gun, which reached India after a three-decade wait in May. 
 
 Official sources from the Army headquarters said that as per the preliminary information, the Gun Howitzer M-777 being acquired through FMS route and undergoing field firing at Pokhran field   had an accident on September 2. Officials further said that the field firing is aimed at compilation of firing tables. It is to be mentioned that the US manufactured gun was firing Indian ammunition. 
 
 “During the firing on September 2, the projectile, which was fifth of the series, exited the barrel in multiple pieces, thus, causing the accident,” said the official, adding that while there has been no injury to any person, the barrel of the gun has been damaged.
 
 The incident which took place on September 2 during the trials while firing Indian ammunition in Pokhran field firing range here in Rajasthan is being jointly investigated by both Army and BAE to assess the exact cause and extent of the damage to the gun. 
 
 It was on May 18 that two M-777 155mm, 39-caliber Ultra Lightweight Howitzers (ULH) , the first amongst the lot of artillery guns for Army from the BAE Systems, reached India in a chartered aircraft and were further brought to Pokhran field firing range for three-month long test bed fires for ‘preparation of firing tables’. 
 
 Following this, the guns with a strike range of 24-40 km (depending on kind of ammunition used) were to be tested for different kinds of indigenous 155mm Indian ammunition for drawing out the firing tables and calibration of the range of the guns with different kinds of ammunition for hitting the target, etc.
 
 As per the contract agreement, firing tables were to be prepared by the contracted agency, i.e., US Government and BAE GCS Ltd with support of  . Three more guns were to be received in the second stage in September 2018 for training. Thereafter, induction will commence from March 2019 onwards at the rate of five guns per month till the complete consignment is received by mid-2021. As of now, further test firing has been suspended. 
 
 
