MANDYA: A debt-ridden   who wanted to meet the district in charge minister to narrate his ordeal but was denied permission attempted suicide by consuming poison in front of the minister in Mandya on Saturday.

 Farmer Appaji, 63, a resident of Ankanathapura village of Maddur taluk, had come to Mandya to meet minister M Krishnappa. When the minister was busy with   celebrations in   auditorium, Appaji tried to meet the minister by breaking the police cordon. He had a letter in his pocket which he wanted to submit to the minister, a request to waive of his loans and release compensation amount as his agricultural land was acquired by the state government.
 
 According to Appaji, 20 guntas of his agricultural land was acquired by   (CNNL) for construction of a village tank in his native village, Ankanathapura. After CNNL acquired Appaji’s land, they paid him only Rs 1,50,000, another Rs 1.5 lakh is still due to him.
 
 Appaji had submitted several memoranda to CNNL officers, requesting for release of the remaining compensation amount due to him. He had even requested officers to acquire his remaining land as he could not farm such a small piece of land. The land acquisition and the delay in compensation pay out had left Appaji financially crippled. He borrowed from banks and moneylenders to make ends meet as he had no source of income now. Appaji was forced to borrow at exorbitant interest rates.
 
 When police did not let Appaji through to hand over his memoranda, he consumed poison and fainted. He was immediately shifted to   and is out of danger.
 
 Minister M Krishnappa met Appaji in the hospital and assured him that all his problems would be solved and that he would direct officers of CNNL to speed up the compensation money.
 
 Another farmer commits 
 
 suicide
 
 Another debt-ridden farmer commit suicide by hanging from a tree in his field in Valagerehalli village of Maddur taluk on Friday night.
 
 Marigowda, 62, committed suicide as he was under pressure to repay his loan of Rs 4 lakh taken from banks and moneylenders. Marigowda also lost his crops due to the severe drought. A case has been registered in Maddur Town police station.
 
