TRICHY: Indian Institute of Management ( ) Trichy has concluded summer placements for the 2016-18 batch of PGP (  in Management) with a 56% increase in the highest domestic stipend offered compared to the previous year.

 The average stipend offered for the internship period was Rs 53,030 and the highest domestic offer was Rs 2.50 lakh per month. This year saw an increase in the average stipend by 4 per cent. According to the summer   record released by IIM Trichy on Thursday for the academic year 2016-17, a total of 159 candidates were offered various roles in over 70 companies that participated in the   process. 
 
 Roles were offered across domains like sales & marketing, finance, general management, consulting, strategy, operations & HR. Some of the major recruiters were Microsoft, Dabur, World Bank, Mahindra, Accenture, Cognizant, Deloitte and Yes Bank. There was an even distribution of the visiting companies too spanning sectors like BFSI, consulting, manufacturing, IT & services, FMCG, retail, e-commerce, supply chain & infrastructure. 
 
 The average of the top 10 per cent offers for domains like sales & marketing, general management & finance witnessed a growth in the range of 20-25% compared to the previous year. The median stipend offered to the top 10 percentile of the batch was Rs 1.31 lakhs while that offered to the top 25 percentile of the batch was Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Speaking at the conclusion of the summer placements, Abhishek Totawar, chairperson-placements and external relations at IIM Trichy, said, “Despite a 67% increase in the batch size, this year witnessed an even better performance over the last year with every student getting a paid internship with better roles and stipends.”
 
 Director, IIM Trichy, Prafulla Agnihotri said, “The result of summer placements with a 56% increase in the highest domestic stipend and once again the whole batch getting placed in professional companies all over India proves the quality of academic processes at IIM Trichy. I heartily congratulate the students of the first year as well as my colleagues in the placement team.”
 
 
