PUNE: Two men on a scooter   of their gold chains at   on Wednesday morning after threatening them with what appeared to be a pistol. The two crimes happened within a span of barely 15 minutes.

 The police said this was perhaps for the first time that robbers have targeted the elderly while threatening them with what seemed to be a firearm.
 
 Police commissioner Rashmi Shukla told TOI, “I suspect that the robbers used a toy pistol because we have seized a large number of illegal weapons ahead of the civic elections in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The two robberies are serious and we will try to detect them at the earliest.”
 
 The robbers, who were wearing caps but had not covered their faces, first targeted a 72-year-old man, who is the director of a private firm, while he was out on a walk in lane number 6 in Kalyaninagar at 7.15am. The robbers tried to shake hands with the man, pretending to know him. However, they soon became hostile and asked him to hand over his cash and valuables. 
 
 The man said he did not react even when one of the robbers brandished the pistol. “The other robber then got down and pushed me. I fell and sustained injuries on my hands. The robber snatched my gold chain worth Rs 50,000 and the duo fled. I raised an alarm and a security guard from a nearby building came to help me. There were no eyewitnesses to the incident. A number of people go out on their morning walks. I want the police to ensure that such incidents are not repeated again,” he said.
 
 Fifteen minutes later, the same robbers snatched the gold chain of a 62-year-old retired state government health officer at Vimannagar. The man told TOI that the robbers, who were speaking in Hindi, told him to hand over whatever he had with him. “They threatened me with a pistol. When I questioned them, the robber sitting pillion got down and snatched my chain. Everything happened so quickly that I could not even raise an alarm. Even passersby did not think anything was amiss,” he said.
 
 The man said he suspects that the robbers came from Srikrishna chowk and fled in the direction of Datta temple chowk. He registered a complaint at the Airport police station.
 
 Deputy commisisoner of police   claimed there was sufficient progress in the investigations but refused to offer details.
 
 The police suspect the robbers were first-time offenders since they were using an old scooter. “Professional chain-snatchers use motorcycles so that they can get away at top speed. Besides, they do not use firearms when targeting the elderly,” a police source said.
 
 TIMES VIEW
 
 The use of firearms to threaten and rob the elderly is worrying, more so because the police claim to have acted against criminals and seized illegal weapons ahead of the civic polls. People on their morning walks are again becoming soft targets. The police must act fast and step up their presence on the streets.
 
