Panaji:   Sports Club have confirmed that they will not be part of the   later this year despite winning promotion only a couple of months ago.
 Penha de Franca had finished runners-up in last season’s First Division League and earned promotion to the top tier since winners   FC (juniors) are not eligible for promotion. The club, however, have realised that they do not have the financial muscle to compete in the Goa Pro League.
  “This is to bring to your notice that we have not managed to find a sponsor for our team for the Professional League and therefore after our club meeting on July 27, we have decided to withdraw,” club secretary Elvis Rodrigues wrote in a letter to the   on Friday.
  Incidentally, the letter was received by the GFA just hours before the managers meeting scheduled at its headquarters later in the day.
  The GFA were hoping that the club would find the strength to compete among the big guns of Goan football but that was not to be. Penha de Franca first wrote to the GFA on the eve of the general body meeting – on July 22 -- informing the association of their withdrawal due to “financial problems.”
  Penha de Franca, however, informed the GFA in writing two days later that they are withdrawing their earlier letter – dated July 22 – which had confirmed the pull-out. It meant there was still hope but on Friday, there was yet another twist; this time the club confirmed that they are in no position to participate.
  The GFA is now likely to invite Panjim Footballers to take part in the Goa Pro League. Panjim Footballers finished third in last season’s First Division League.
  The GFA intends to have a 12-team Pro League this season. The inclusion of Panjim Footballers would leave them with 11 teams. The last slot could be handed over to FC Goa, the Goan franchise in the Indian Super League at a cost, or Goa Police who finished fourth in the First Division League.
  “We will have 12 teams for sure. Let’s see who occupies that slot,” said a senior GFA official.
  The GFA wants a substantial fee from any team which desires a direct entry. FC Goa is the only team which continues to show interest.
