From celebrating the college’s feats to showcasing students’ talents and other achievements, campus newsletters and annual magazines have been a tradition for years now. However, with digitisation, the joy of flipping through these magazines has transformed, with more people preferring their online versions. These are a reflection of the current generation’s preference — that of accessing information online. 

 
 
 An e-magazine is not just easier to access, but also has greater visibility. And it falls in place with the ideology of saving paper — something that most colleges wish to achieve. KC College’s magazine that comes out in French, English, Hindi, Marathi and Sindhi has started its online version this year. In addition, students also have an ‘Art’ section, where digital paintings and artworks are uploaded. Vice-Principal of the college, Dr Shalini Sinha, who is also the editor of the magazine, says, “We are working towards building a website, too. The students have contemporarised the magazine’s content. So, we had a section called Emojipedia, where students asked each other what they thought a particular emoticon stood for and had other listicles like ‘Things Townies say to Suburbanites’, which were a hit!”
 
 
 
 Students of   have alread started working on their annual magazine, Synergy, which comes out in the middle of their academic year. Currently in its 27th year, the magazine went digital three years back. Karthik Krishnan, the editor, says, “We have a website where we upload the PDF version. We have articles in English, Hindi, Marathi and Punjabi and it is entirely designed by students. Through an app, we ensure we reach out to everyone from college. Next year, we are planning to have QR codes embedded, so one can watch videos of talks by dignitaries and other important events that take place on the campus.”
 
 IIT-Bombay’s bi-monthly magazine, Insight, documents the latest happenings besides regularly updating it on their Facebook page. Final year student Shreerang Javadekar, chief editor of the publication, says, “For every edition, we have a cover story and also have themes at times. Over 100 volunteers conduct an on-ground research and collect articles from different departments. Besides a design team, we also have a dedicated video team that covers important issues. For instance, we had a vox populi when the Lord Hanuman mural at our annual college fest was covered with a white cloth.”
 
 
 
 Blog magazines or blogzines are quite the ‘in-thing’. SIES Sion’s Dakshinayanam is a case in point. Professor Rashmi Bhure, vice-principal and editor of the magazine, says, “The blog helps us in regularly updating the college’s activities, including the teaching and the non-teaching staff — right from fests to events and memorial lectures. We also have a theme every year, this year’s theme being ‘Retrospect’. As per that, we’re taking a look at the important events that took place in the last 100 years and on any particular day, upload a post talking about the same. All these years, our magazine was limited to English, Hindi and Marathi but this year, we have some articles and poems in Tamil as well.”
 
 
 Not really. Under the University of Mumbai’s mandates, it is compulsory to have few hard copies. So, while magazines have gone online, 500 to 1,000 copies are printed to hand them over to guests and other visitors.
 
 > Many colleges have been approached by a service provider to start an online library where all college magazines will be available on a single platform, so everyone knows what’s up with other institutes.
 
 
