Ahmedabad: The state government has decided to introduce textbooks published by National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) beginning next academic year from in class I to class VIII. The textbook, which are textbooks for CBSE curriculum, will be introduced in a phased manner.

 A notification issued by the state government states that the NCERT syllabus will be introduced in Gujarat schools from the next academic year in class I, III and VI. In 2019-20, the syllabus will be introduced in class II, IV and VII.
 
 The NCERT syllabus will be introduced in 2020-21 in class V and VIII. It may be mentioned that the government has decided to introduce NCERT syllabus from Class IX next year.
 
 Officials of the education department said that the books will be translated into Gujarati before they are introduced into schools. Mathematics as a subject will be implemented according to NCERT in all classes from class I to VIII. 
 
 However, the science and social sciences subjects will be introduced as per NCERT in classes VI to VIII. The board has also made it clear that Gujarat-specific topics will be introduced in the NCERT books for Gujarat students.
 
 Board officials said that the books on language subjects will be as prepared by the Gujarat State Textbook Board. The board has stated that since Gujarat does not have a separate science subject in class I and II, the two subjects would be introduced in class I and II to match the NCERT syllabus.
 
 The state government has also made it clear in the circular that if NCERT permission was required this, it should be obtained by the state textbook board before sending the books for printing.
 
 The education department had introduced NCERT syllabus on a pilot basis. Nearly 50 English-medium schools in the state had agreed to be part of the pilot experiment. Over the last seven years, there has been a growing demand from parents and teachers for adopting NCERT books as they are well-written and are also principal textbooks for central-level competitive exams. 
 
 
