GUWAHATI: Eleven   staged a sit-in demonstration here on Monday in   by the state and the government's "conspiracy" to include   in the   (NRC). 

 The parties - including CPI, CPM, NCO and Samajwadi Party - are firm in their demand for considering 1971 as the cut-off year for the NRC update in Assam and the deportation of illegal immigrants. They also want the state government to stop eviction drives in fertile areas where the landless have settled to earn their living.
 
 "The Assam government must stop conducting eviction drives without providing an alternative to the evicted people for earning their livelihood. They must get adequate compensation. The government should, instead, give land rights to families which have settled in various parts of the state for years," said a memorandum sent to chief minister   by the protesters.
 
 The parties also alleged a "conspiracy" is afoot against religious minorities in Assam. They pointed to the extensive eviction drives near Kaziranga National Park, Mayong in central Assam's Morigaon district and in Darrang district in the last few months.
 
 "The government needs to stop its communal prejudice in the name of eviction drive," the memorandum said.
 
 The parties said they were apprehensive of the direction the NRC update process is taking in Assam, to the extent that they wonder if the Centre and the state government want to bring the process to a halt. They urged the government to respect the unanimous decision by the people of the state on the detection and deportation of illegal migrants.
 
 "The Centre is keen on passing the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016 in the parliament before the completion of the NRC update process so that those belonging to religious minorities from Bangladesh can be absorbed into the state. It shows utter disrespect for the common mandate of the people of Assam, who accepted 1971 as the cut-off-year for detection and deportation of illegal immigrants after the Assam Agitation," said state secretary of CPM, Deben Bhattacharyya.
 
 The protesters warned against granting citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh for vote bank politics. "The NRC update process started in Assam with 1971 as the cut-off year. No question arises for relaxing the norms for immigrants on religious grounds," Bhattacharyya added.
 
 
