CHENNAI: Union I & B and urban development minister M   on Monday said he was not in favour of former Tamil Nadu chief minister J  's body being exhumed as suggested by Madras high court judge S  .

 “I am not in favour of it personally . I hold Jayalalithaa in high esteem. Exhuming the body somehow does not go down well with me,“ said Naidu during an interaction with reporters at the BJP headquarters in Chennai.
 
 While taking up a petition seeking a probe into the circumstances leading to Jayalalithaa's death, Justice Vaidyanathan, expressing unhappiness about the secrecy surrounding her treatment, had wondered why her body should not be exhumed. “It is the judge's opinion. If he has issued notice, the Centre will reply to it. Let us wait and see what the court says,“ said Naidu. “We have no reasons to disbelieve the doctors. I too had enquired with them,“ he said, adding that Jayalalithaa died of a cardiac arrest after she had briefly recovered.The Apollo Hospitals had come out with frequent medical bulletins on her health condition.
 
 On doubts being raised about Jayalalithaa's death, Naidu said, “There will always be doubting Thomases. They will get appropriate replies by authorities concerned and not by an individual Union minister.“ On the political developments in the state, Naidu said, the Centre would not interfere in the working of the state government. He added that the government was ready to work with any chief minister.
 
 “Whether it is O Panneerselvam or any other person ( ) as chief minister, Centre is not bothered. We are going to work only with the state government and not with an individual,“ said Naidu.
 
 The minister said people have elected the AIADMK in the assembly election.“AIADMK MLAs can elect their leader and Centre is not interested in interfering in its internal matters. AIADMK can function as it wants.“ On the performance of Panneerselvam as chief minister, Naidu said it was too early to rate his performance.“How many months or years has Panneerselvam been the chief minister of Tamil Nadu.We all know the circumstances under which he took charge.The entire party was in grief after Jayalalithaa`s death. Only time will tell about his performance,“ said Naidu.
 
 Asked whether he proposed Panneerselvam`s name for chief minister, Naidu shot back: “Who am I to propose or dismiss Panneerselvam`s name. On the day of Jayalalithaa's funeral I stayed back and wanted to check the preparations. I did not propose any name in the place of Jayalalithaa“.
 
 The minister dismissed allegations by former chief secretary P Rama Mohana Rao that the Centre was targeting the state. “There are many IAS officials both present as well as retired who said that the raids on Rao were as per law. Stating that Centre is targeting state is nothing but a politically motivated charge. Law will take its course,“ said Naidu.
 
