Madurai: With the ‘Swachhta hi Seva’ rath being flagged off by Minister Sellur K Raju in Madurai on Sunday, the Madurai   has chalked an action plan to carry out intensified cleaning operations in various sectors from September 18 onwards.

 Many initiatives are being carried out by the corporation under the Swachh Bharat mission. As part of the programme, intensified cleaning has been undertaken since August 15 this year and will go on till October 2. The aim of the rath that was flagged off on Sunday is to take the message of keeping the city and environment clean to the people and also stress upon the need for individual action.
 
 Meanwhile, the Madurai Corporation has decided to carry out a more detailed program, from September 18 onwards. To begin with all hospitals in the city will be cleaned intensively on Monday. Vegetable, fruit and flower markets, the places where large amounts of garbage is generated on a daily basis will be taken up for cleaning on September 19 and all corporation, zonal, ward offices , lorry sheds, overhead water tanks would be cleaned the next day. 
 
 Vaigai River and its surroundings would be taken up for cleaning on September 21 and schools would be asked to keep their premises clean on September 22. Public toilets and community toilets in the corporation limits would be sanitised and cleaned on September 24 and channels in each ward would be rid of their garbage the next day.
 
 A ward in each zone would be taken up for intensive cleaning on September 25 and Meenakshi Amman temple and its surroundings would be the next in line. People can also contribute with their efforts and Teppakulam and Mariamman temple would be cleaned on September 27. The places of tourist interest like Thirumalai Naicker Mahal, Gandhi Museum among others would be cleaned on September 28. The next day would be day for churches, followed by mosques on September 30.
 
 Madurai Railway junction and the bus stands would be cleaned on October 1 and the best participating colleges, schools and NGOs would be awarded prizes on the conclusive day October 2.
 
 
