PONDA: Rehabilitation, or work on strengthening the   over  , which was delayed by six months due to heavy vehicular movement, is now expected to be complete by May according to public works department ( ) officials. Steel used for building bridges loses its tensile strength and suffers from the heavy impact of corrosion due to the high salinity of Goan rivers.

 “Several jobs like joint replacements, replacement of damaged concrete with hard-setting concrete, waterproofing, tarring, etc. are yet to be completed. We can only work for a limited time in the hours between midnight and early morning, thus delaying progress. The project, however, will be completed by May this year,” PWD assistant engineer Shashikant Desai, said.
 
 The 431-metre-long bridge is the only link for vehicular traffic between the Ponda and Salcete talukas and was built between 1977 and 1986 at an expense of Rs 303 lakh. It was commissioned in 1986 and had never undergone repairs before this, except for oiling of joints carried out by the PWD. The traffic flow on the route increased manifold about a decade ago when the existing Zuari bridge weakened.
 
 Following a study by a consultancy firm, it was decided that the cables needed tightening to strengthen the structure. It is now being rehabilitated through external pre-stressing by tightening the cables (strands) to avoid deflections. The work, being done by Fressinet India Limited, Mumbai, commenced in July 2015 and was expected to be completed by December 2016 at a cost of Rs 9.91 crore. But, heavy vehicular movement that leaves labourers with very little time to carry out the necessary repairs, slowed down the work.
 
 “This is the first time the PWD has employed an expert organization for strengthening the bridge,” Desai said.
 
 The operational load capacity of the bridge was decided in mid-70s, as per the status of transport movement and vehicular population at that time. At present, the bridge witnesses movements of over 30,000 passenger car units (PCU), wherein a motorcycle is half PCU, a bus is three PCUs and a truck is four PCUs.
 
 
