UDUPI: It's not every day that one hears of an engineer, with an MBA to boot, aspiring to get a doctorate in rangoli ­ the   of   on the floor.

 However, Mahesh Rao, 29, who completed his   to fulfill his parents' wishes, has now set his sights on obtaining a PhD in rangoli at the  . Driven by the ambition to distinguish himself as a  , Mahesh will be guided by Vijay Khot, a professor at Allahabad University. Although natives of Udupi, Mahesh's parents are settled in Belagavi. It was at the behest of his father, Vikas Rao, an engineer, that Mahesh studied engineering and got an MBA. On his enduring love for rangoli, Mahesh told TOI, “Rangoli is an integral part of Indian tradition. Women in north Karnataka draw rangoli in front of their homes since there's this belief that it brings good luck.“
 
 Lamenting the effect that the influence of western values had on the popularity of rangoli, Mahesh added, “It is not too popular with the new generation. Hence, I want to start an institution dedicated to the promotion of rangoli. To me, the model institution is the `Sanskar Bharti' rangoli programme in Pune."
 
 Mahesh's tryst with the art of rangoli dates back 15 years. “I accompanied my elder sister to a rangoli competition when I was in class eight. I found it very interesting and decided to participate myself. What I made was bad, and I got laughed at. But I took it up as a challenge and continued practising the art. My mother Neeta has been the biggest source of inspiration.I am proud of being a rangoli artist, and when I obtain my doctorate, I will be the fifth person to have a PhD in rangoli in India,“ said Mahesh.
 
 Highlighting rangoli's international imprint, Mahesh said, “The mandala patterns are used in Russia and Italy. I aim to make the longest rangoli in the world. At Krishna Mutt, I have drawn an 80ft-long rangoli.“ Mahesh's prowess in has earned him several laurels, including a gold medal at the Red Fort in 2012.
 
 “Udupi recognized me, and afforded me a chance to explore myself,“ said Mahesh. The district has already seen Arathi Maravanthe secure a PhD in rangoli.
 
