KOCHI: Even as the fire and rescue services department filed an affidavit before the high court stating that giving a fire no-objection certificate to the   was against the Kerala Municipal Building Rules (KMBR), the   has taken a stand that the building plan was as per the  . It has come to the fore that a corporation official had issued a certificate to the mall owners attesting that the construction by the mall owners above 40 metres was as per the KMBR. 

 Last month, the fire and rescue services department had filed the affidavit stating that "as per Rule 55 (9) of the KMBR, all the requirements in respect of the fire protection in assembly occupancy building shall conform to part 4, Fire and Life Safety of the National Building Code". The affidavit also states that buildings of height above 30 metres were not permitted for assembly occupancy as per the National Building Code.
 
 At the same time, based on a request by the Centre Square, executive engineer-I of the corporation issued a certificate attesting to the claims of the mall owners that the building was did not violate the KMBR. Taking a dig at the corporation, the fire and rescue department had said in the affidavit: "While issuing permit to construct assembly building of height above 30 metres, the corporation failed to examine the matter in detail in the light of Rule 55 (9) of KMBR as well as Rule 55 (8a) and thereby committed gross illegality."
 
 Meanwhile,   Mall authorities told TOI that the building had all the required firefighting equipment. They also said the board of officers of the fire department had conducted an inspection and reported that the firefighting arrangements in the building were satisfactory. The officers also noted that additional safety measures such as beam detectors were in place, the mall authorities said. When asked about the letter sent by the   department asking the corporation to file an affidavit on why they could not revoke the provisional occupancy given to the mall, the authorities did not respond.
 
 But the fire and rescue services department, in its affidavit, stated that the board members were not aware that a multiplex was being constructed above the fifth-floor of the mall. The construction of the area above the fifth-floor was not completed during the time of inspection and the application was for partial   up to the fifth-floor having a height of 28.5 metre only.
 
 
