PUDUCHERRY: A   of Jawaharlal institute of postgraduate medical education and research ( ) hailing from Mysuru, Karnataka, committed suicide by administering to herself a   at her residence in the town. 

 Police said C Reshmi, 27, who completed MBBS and MD (anaesthesia) at Jipmer, joined as senior resident doctor, a week ago. The doctors at the institute suspect that she might have administered high dosage of propranolol (used to treat heart conditions) to kill herself. "High dosage of Propranolol immediately leads to cardiac arrest," said a doctor, seeking anonymity. 
 
 Reshmi was staying on her own after her mother C Shalini left for Mysuru three days ago. Her mother attempted to contact her through mobile on May 15. When she did not respond her mother got her colleagues to visit the house and ascertain her safety. Her colleagues broke open the door only to find her unconscious on the bed.
 
 A police team, which arrived at her house, found an empty syringe beside her. The team also recovered a suicide note in which she said, ‘I don’t want to live and nobody is responsible for my death’. 
 
 Inquiries revealed that her mother and father S Chandran were separated several years ago and this affected her deeply. Reshmi injected herself with propranolol in a bid to end her life. Police sent the body for postmortem examination. D Nagar police registered a case under Section 174 of the CrPc and began investigation.
 
 Superintendent of police Rachna Singh, however, said, “We suspect that she administered a lethal dose of anaesthesia. We can ascertain the nature of anaesthesia she used and its adverse effect only after a detailed chemical analysis,” Singh said. 
 
 This is the third suicide by students or resident doctor at Jipmer in the last eight months. A second year postgraduate nursing student at Jipmer identified as N Vimala, 24 from Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling of her room in the hostel on March 30.
 
 A 25-year-old student pursuing MD (radiotherapy) in Jipmer identified as U Sumanth from Bangalore committed suicide by administering lethal injection to himself in his room in the hostel on the institute premises on August 27 last year. 
 
 
