NEW DELHI/HYDERABAD: Foreign Secretary S   will visit the US from Tuesday during which key bilateral issues, including India’s concerns over a possible clamp down on H-1B visas and safety of Indians are expected to be discussed. 

 According to officials here, Jaishankar will also be holding talks on regional and international issues of mutual interest with senior members of the Donald Trump administration during his four-day visit. Maintaining that the government was engaged with the Trump administration as well as members of the US Congress on concerns regarding the H-1B visa issue, they said India’s view that Indian IT companies were contributing to the American economy by increasing the competitiveness of their firms will be conveyed by the foreign secretary during his meetings. 
 
 During the visit, which will be taking place barely days after killing of an Indian engineer in a crowded bar in Kansas City in an apparent hate crime, the issue of safety of Indian nationals is also expected to figure during the discussions between the two sides. 
 
 In Hyderabad, Union minister Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday condemned the killing of the engineer, saying the US government should respond to such incidents and take the “strongest action”. “The US should respond to this incident. American president and people of America, they should come out openly to condemn such actions...and then take strongest action. Also send a message that it is not acceptable,” Naidu said. “These kind of incidents involving racial discrimination are shameful. They will dent the image of USA. So the US president, administration and civil societies should unequivocally respond and condemn such incidents. I as a central minister condemn such incidents,” he said. 
 
 According to reports, the shooter who has been arrested, yelled “get out of my country” before opening fire on 32-year-old Srinivas Kuchibhotla and his Indian colleague Alok Madasani on Wednesday night. Srinivas was killed while his friend was injured. A third person, an American man identified as Ian Grillot, 24, who tried to intervene also received injuries in the firing in Austins Bar and Grill in Kansas City. 
 
 Naidu said he spoke regarding the incident to his cabinet colleague and external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj, who gave appropriate directions to the Indian high commission. “It is shocking that Kuchibhotla was shot dead in an alleged (case of) racial discrimination. It caused mental agony to all Indians. I express my sympathies to the bereaved family,” he said.
 
