KOLKATA:   Basudeb Bagchi and his son Aveek were arrested by CBI on Wednesday on charges of fraudulently amassing Rs 2,862 crore in investment schemes and duping investors. 

 Prayag group features on the list of ponzi companies against whom the Supreme Court directed a CBI probe in May 2014. The father-and-son duo was questioned at CBI’s CGO headquarters during the day and later arrested. 
 
 According to CBI spokesman, the agency had registered a case against   in June 2014 under sections 120-B, 420 and 34 of IPC and under several sections of Prize Chit and Money Circulation (Banning) Act. 
 
 The CBI official said: “The two illegally collected Rs 2,862 crore from investors for its investment schemes by fraudulently promising very high returns. They collected funds without any permission from the regulatory bodies and lured investors. Thus they committed cheating and criminal misappropriation of public funds.”
 
 Gopal Halder, advocate for Prayag group, said the CBI probe was on for a long time and now the chairman and his son had been arrested. “I will plead for bail in the court on Thursday.” The duo will be produced in Bidhanangar court. 
 
 Following an Alipore court order, Prayag had started refunding deposits but there were allegations by some depositors that they were not getting their dues.
 
 According to the complaint, Bagchi, originally a realtor and based at Bhupen Roy Road in Behala, later set up a film city in Chandrakona, Midnapore (west). It is alleged that by showcasing a Bollywood star, Prayag collected deposits from investors. It even had huge deposits from neighbouring states Bihar and Jharkhand.
 
 Sources said the group initially acquired several hundred acres in Chandrakona for setting up a herbal medicine plant during the Left Front regime. Later, the plot was used for setting up the film city, which is considered to be worth around Rs 1,000 crore. Bagchi was close to a Left Front minister, sources said, and he thus managed to acquire the plot.
 
 Prayag’s website claimed its chairman   had established the group in 2002. “Our businesses range from real estate and construction, fishery, biotechnology, hotels and resorts, solid waste management, cement, food processing, organic farming, media, FMCG and of course the prestigious Prayag Film City,” says the website claims.
 
 The Bengal government had sealed the office of Prayag in May 2013 during a crackdown on ponzi companies. But there were complaints by CBI that Prayag was collecting funds even after that.
 
 
