Indore: It seems that in fiscal year 2016-17 industries violating mandatory safety norms under Factories Act in Pithampur, state’s largest industrial belt, will increase as compared to the last year. Till now, a total of 33 industries have been found violating mandatory safety norms under Factories Act and the figure is likely to rise in near future.

 Industrial safety and health department has registered cases against the 33 industries for violation of provisions of Factories Act. The department has registered prosecution cases against them for risking life of employees since they did not have followed fire safety measures. Also, they were found to have open air ventilation and extended working hours.
 
 Industrial safety and health department assistant director Anand Rai Sardar said, “So far 33 industries of the region have been found guilty of violating mandatory safety measures. The numbers may increase in future as we have to wait for submission of inspection report and approval from head office.”
 
 He said every year about 35 cases of violation of mandatory safety norms are registered in Pithampur. The department has received large number of complaints about industries violating safety norms and the action was a response to those complaints.
 
 According to the industrial safety and health department, the process of checking factory premises is on in Pithampur and more industries caught violating safety norms may be penalized by the department. 
 
 They said that many industries were found taking services of workers for over 12 hours in a day as against the factory norm of eight hours. Some industries were caught for paying less overtime to workers as against the prescribed rates.
 
 Sardar said, “Most of the factories of the region do not have upgraded fire safety measure to deal with any emergency. Fire safety equipment on industry premises is a mandatory provision in the Factories Act.”
 
 The guilty is liable to be facing two years imprisonment or Rs1 lakh penalty, he added. 
 
 According to the industrial safety and health department, the registered cases have been forwarded to the CGM court. 
 
 
