Ghaziabad: A village panchayat in Bhojpur near Modinagar allegedly forced a 25-year-old man to drink urine in front of over 100 people after he accidentally peeped into a neighbour’s house in an inebriated condition. The crime took place on February 14.

 As per a complaint filed by the victim’s wife, the accused also took turns to physically assault him in full public view before forcing a bottle filled with urine down his throat. The police, which initially tried to hush up the incident, filed an FIR and arrested four persons on Saturday when the issue got highlighted. Meanwhile, the youth, who works as a labourer in a tent company, left the village with his family as he could not bear the humiliation.
 
 According to Chaman, the victim’s acquaintance, the youth was passing in front of one Amit’s house at around 10.30 pm on February 10. “He was drunk and in that state he accidentally peeped inside Amit’s house following which he was caught and thrashed. He somehow reached his house,” said Chaman. 
 
 “The next day, the youth left the village and went into hiding in nearby Sihani village after a complaint was lodged against him in   by Amit. However, on February 14, he was called to the village on the orders of the panchayat,” said Chaman. “The panchayat sat and there were 100-odd people watching the proceedings. Around 1.30pm, the victim confessed to his crime and just when the panchayat members were deliberating on the punishment, Amit and his brothers Vikas and Deepu pounced on him and thrashed him mercilessly,” said Chaman. 
 
 “Not satisfied with it, they brought a bottle filled with urine and forced it down his throat,” said Chaman. 
 
 In the complaint, it was also alleged that the prime accused Amit, his wife Sushma and brothers Vikas and Deepu all took turns to thrash him
 
  “When the matter came to the notice of officials, Amit’s wife Sushma told police that it was not urine but black tea,” said Chaman. 
 
 “It was a minor incident between two groups and there was no such case,” said Shiv Prakash Singh, SHO, Bhojpur police station on Friday when TOI sought his reply. 
 
 However, on Saturday, all four accused named in the FIR were arrested and at least five sections of IPC were slapped against them. 
 
 “We have registered a case against four persons under Section 352 (assault or criminal force), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 500 (defamation), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. ,” said Devender Mishra, circle officer, Modinagar.
 
 
