BENGALURU: If Bengalureans, especially those residing in low-lying areas, have been spared   this year, it's only because there has been no rain so far. With the   at over 700 spots along   (SWDs), a good spell is enough to trigger flash floods in several parts of the city. 

 After the flash floods that inundated more than 2,000 houses in   in July last year, chief minister Siddaramaiah had ordered the clearing of  . However, the initial momentum was lost owing to shortage of surveyors and pressure from influential people whose properties were located on drains.
 
  Of the 1,953 drain encroachments identified in the city, the Palike had cleared 820 before the flash floods last July. And since August last, only 405 cases have been dealt with. Flood threat now looms large as encroachments still remain at 728 spots along SWDs, admitted sources in the BBMP. 
 
  Sources said most of these encroachments yet to be cleared are in Bommanahalli, Mahadevapura, Yelahanka and Rajarajeshwari Nagar. 
 
  A senior official associated with BBMP's SWD drain division said they need more surveyors to continue with the encroachment- clearance drive. "Last year when we had to stop the drive, the revenue department agreed to send some surveyors to mark the boundaries of the sitting on drains. Based on the work they had done, we restarted the drive and recovered some drain stretches in north Bengaluru early this year. However, the service of the surveyors was withdrawn. We have written to the revenue department again and are awaiting their reply," he added. 
 
  Nagaraj K, a resident of Rajarajeshwari Nagar, said the BBMP is not going ahead with the encroachment-clearance drive mainly because properties belonging to influential people and some tech parks and malls are also sitting on these drains. "Whatever demolition has happened till now is only of properties belonging to the poor and middleclass people. Even the compensation plan proposed to help those who lost their houses hasn't been executed," he added. 
 
  Mayor G Padmavathi said they are hopeful of getting surveyors in the coming weeks so that the demolition drive against drain encroachments can resume. "We will soon convene a meeting of officials of the stormwater drain division and revenue officials in this regard," she added. 
 
 
