VISAKHAPATNAM: To stop cyber crime cases, the state government is planning to set up cyber digital forensic labs with all modern facilities by spending more than Rs 20 crore. This centre would be helpful in investigating cases registered in the district, said district collector Pravin Kumar during his Republic Day speech at the Police Barracks on Thursday.

 The collector said the government has been committed to develop Vizag as an IT hub and so initiated the twin towers at IT SEZ, Madhurawada. He also said that to encourage sports, the government has been constructing a mini stadium at Kommadi on a six-acre land.
 
 As part of the CII Partnership Summit last year, around 26 MoUs were inked drawing Rs 56,443 crore investments to Vizag district. All these would be implemented shortly generating jobs for around 43,500 youth. Around 200 companies will set up medical equipment manufacturing units in the Med Park in the city outskirts. 
 
 The collector also said the government has taken a decision to regularise lands below 500 square yards on which people have constructed houses in government lands. The district has received 16,425 applications and 16,146 people will get land regularisation pattas soon. Also, to bring transparency in the public distribution system, the district administration has implemented ePoS system in 1,624 ration depots. The remaining 394 depots will soon come under the same system.
 
 The 68th Republic Day was observed at all major government organisations and education institutes in the port city on Thursday. For the first time in the district, the AP police organised a motorbike display.
 
 At Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), P Madhusudan, CMD, RINL, said the steel giant is presently stabilising its new units and ramping up production. On commercial front, he said RINL is concentrating on value-added steel production, identifying niche markets and new customers to improve its bottomline. 
 
 At Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT), MT Krishna Babu, chairman of VPT, unfurled the national flag at   and inspected the CISF platoons of the major port. Addressing the occasion, the chairman said despite challenges, VPT handled a quantity of 49.6 MT with an increment volume of 3.5 MT and a growth of 7.6%.
 
 Rajesh Tripathi, CMD of Dredging Corporation of India unfurled the national flag at Dredge House, Port Area and congratulated all officers and staff for completing the Vikramaditya Project at Cochin Ship Yard Limited. He lauded the efforts of the DCI employees for timely completion of the projects at Kattupalli, Andaman and Nicobar and Bhabol. 
 
 At BHEL, J Govindaswamy, executive director, BHEL participated as the chief guest. On this occasion, security, fire personnel, NCC Cadets and scouts and guides and school children performed march past and a cultural programme. 
 
 At   Rear Admiral LV Sarat Babu, (Retd.), CMD HSL, highlighted the major decisions taken by the company in the recent past regarding enhancement of wages/salaries, payment of leave salaries to retired employees and payment of gratuity to the discharged employees. 
 
 Besides the public sector units, 68th Republic Day Celebrations was observed in King George Hospital (KGH) and in various educational institutions including Andhra University.
 
