KOLHAPUR: The city’s first-ever cleanliness rating did little to bring cheer. 

 Ranked 177th in the national survey, Kolhapur fared worse than the adjoining textile town of Ichalkaranji and Satara. With an overall score of 1,048 out of 2,000, Kolhapur fared better than the state and national average in this matter but lagged behind in some crucial parameters. 
 
 Of the 10 parameters for solid waste managements, Kolhapur could achieve only one that informal waste pickers were deployed in more than 50% wards. None of the parameters regarding access to sanitation were met.
 
 Regarding the efforts towards capacity building and  , only one of the five criteria was achieve. The civic body has ensured that over 75% of the garbage vehicles are tracked by GPS systems.
 
 When it came to the on-site observations, the area around the main bus stand and railway station was found to be 100% clean, more than 75% public toilets are well lit, ventilated, have water supply and are connected with on-site safe disposal systems.
 
 The city, however, failed to ensure that more than 75% residential and commercial areas are substantially clean. Also, more than 75% of the public toilets, including the one near the main bus stand, were not found to be gender, child and disabled friendly
 
 Kolhapur municipal commissioner   said the parameters in the survey will be looked into to improve the city’s ranking next year.
 
 “We will identify the areas that need to be improved upon to make sure the city represents its true potential in terms of cleanliness. The city, which has gone through the third-party inspection of the Quality Council of India (QCI), has been recommended as an open defecation free city. We also want to make the city container free in future and the efforts will be taken to achieve it,” he said. 
 
 Vijay Patil, chief sanitation inspector of the KMC, said they were totally clueless about the presentation and the filing system, which was needed there to be shown to the QCI panel in the  . However, it would not be the case in the future.
 
 “If you observe the cities that have got better rankings, almost all of them have had their previous experience with the ranking system and how to proceed with it. The file showcasing the city’s achievement in the coverage of individual and public toilets, status of open defecation free, door-to-door collection and disposal of the waste was there but not necessarily in the format that the panel wanted,” he said.
 
 He added that since the department has now got the experience about the requirements of the survey and how it should be presented, the city with its better cleanliness will surely be placed in the top 50 cities across the country the next time. “The city will soon be equipped with dust bins in the prominent places, which is also one of the important requirements in the survey,” he said.
 
 As far as the ODF is concerned, around two-year long efforts have paid off. On the solid waste management front, new logistics such as containers, cycles, refuse collecting vehicles and decentralised treatment measures will be put in place, officials said.
 
