Rajeev.Dikshit@timesgroup.com

 Varanasi: Muscleman MLA Vijay Mishra is struggling to prove that discarding by Samajwadi Party president and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav cannot stop his winning streak at Gyanpur seat in Bhadohi. The presence of   in seats like Saiyyedraja in Chandauli and Malhani in Jaunpur is making the contest more interesting.
 
 Among the seats where polling is taking place in last phase of Assembly election, Gyanpur, Malhani and Saiyyedraja are in focus because of musclemen in fray from these seats.
 
 After Akhilesh denied SP ticket to Vijay Mishra, the latter revolted and announced to contest the election to retain Gyanpur seat. Vijay, his wife and daughter were expelled from SP. Initially he wanted to contest as Independent but later joined a lesser known Nishad Party. SP has fielded former MP Ramrati Bind.
 
 Due to Mishra’s presence, the contest at Gyanpur seat has remained triangular between SP, Bahujan Samaj Party’s Rajesh Yadav and Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Mahendra Bind. Mishra enjoys Robinhood-like image among the people of his constituency. Amit Singh of Gopiganj and Ravi of Gopapur explained that Mishra might be a muscleman for his rivals but for the people of constituency he is the man who works for development and help those who seek his help.
 
 Safdar, Ekhlaq and Lalu, all traders in Lai Bazaar, said that Mishra is also popular as trader fraternity feel safe under his patronage. People of the constituency said that despite enjoying support from people of all castes, his fate would depend on Brahmin and Muslim votes. It the votes of these two are divided, retaining his seat would become difficult for Mishra.
 
 At Saiyyedraja seat, the battle is interesting because the sitting SP MLA Manoj Singh Dablu, who had surprised in 2012 assembly election by defeating jailed mafia-don-turned-MLC Brijesh Singh, is facing challenge this time from another jailed don and former MLC Shyam Narain alias Vineet Singh and Brijesh’s nephew and BJP MLA from Sakaldiha Sushil Singh. Here poll managers of all camps are blaming rivals for using money power to influence voters. But a voter Dhirendra Singh of Bhujna village near Bihar border revealed that due to impact of demonetization and increased vigil of election authorities and police, use of money power is lesser in this election like previous  .
 
 In his small public meetings, Sushil, who also has image of a muscleman politicians, could be found praising his uncle and exposing Vineet for allegedly running the trade of kidnapping and extortion. Vineet had made trouble inevitable by posting an objectionable poster on CM about six months back as he came on the radar of police. About a month before commencement of Assembly poll process, he surrendered in some old case and went to jail. In his absence, his wife Pramila Singh and son managed his campaign. Through recorded and text messages, Pramila tried her best to prove that Vineet had been victimized by ruling party.
 
 The prestige of another muscleman politician Dhananjay is also at stake at Malhani where his wife had suffered defeat from SP’s heavyweight and UP minister Parasnath Yadav in 2012.
 
 
