Chennai: A visit to the Mandaveli post office would bust the myth of the place being a haunt of the elderly. Most days see a good number of yuppies and millennials jostling for space and carrying out banking transactions. The reason being post offices are richly reaping the benefits of demonetisation and their upgrade to core banking.  Officials said that circles are seeing 7-8 lakh account additions every month, up from 1-1.5 lakh account additions earlier, primarily because of these two changes. And some of these additions are because of youngsters like 18-year-old Smiley Thirunavakarasu, who opened a post office account because of accessibility. “I have a post office right outside my college, my home and my dance class - so I thought it would be easier to open a savings account,” she says. Accessibility being a keyword, the postal department's 1.5 lakh-network is paying rich dividends as shown by RBI data that more people are using post offices for small savings. For 2015-16, post office deposits grew 9% year-over-year to Rs 4,287.13 billion from Rs 3,961.81 billion in 2014-15. Small savings on the whole increased 33% to Rs 3,224.88 billion from Rs 2,411.58 billion. Officials said that while demonetisation definitely pushed up post office usage, the biggest impact came after adoption of core banking solutions (CBS). “So earlier, people could only transact at their local post office. But with the introduction of core banking, our reach has become immense, contributing to the recent spike in accounts,” said A Govindarajan, director postal services, Tamil Nadu Circle. Post offices also seem to benefit from the attractive interest rates they offer on deposits, compared to banks.  Post office time deposits increased 27% to Rs 228.76 billion from Rs 179.75 billion, while recurring deposits grew 38% to Rs 130.41 billion from Rs 94.31 billion.  “The deposit rates we offer for senior citizens is attractive as is our 7.7% rate for our monthly income scheme. The Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme or Selva Magzhal scheme as we call it TN has also has seen lots of interest, as has PPF,” he said. Public provident fund (PPFs) grew 19% to Rs 113.82 billion from Rs 95.38 billion in the year-ago. Another major plus point customers find in post office accounts is that they do not have to maintain a minimum balance in their account. “Customers can open an account with as little as Rs 50. And there is no requirement of a minimum balance or charges levied for non-maintenance of the same. For issuing a cheque book, of course we insist that the account has a minimum of Rs 500 as balance,” said Govindarajan. With the Department of Post likely to introduce internet and mobile banking in the next few months, post officials are expecting the growth momentum to continue. The department has also been actively campaigning to motivate its staff to work longer hours and train them to improve their relationship with customers. “We have visited many institutions, government departments to create awareness. We have even set up stalls in IT campuses to showcase the department's services and products. We have seen quite a good response among youngsters,” he said.  Customers also find the lack of charges at post offices an attractive point. “There is no charges for using our postal ATM cards at our own ATM network for any number of transactions. There is a slight charge with interoperability -- using other bank networks -- but that is because we need to pay those banks for using their network,” he said.