PATNA: Even as the controversy over the age of superannuation of college principals has generated much heat and dust in the academic circles recently, principals of several constituent colleges under different universities in the state have allegedly been allowed to continue even beyond 62 years of age, though they have been declared non-teaching staff who are supposed to retire at 62. Only teachers of colleges and universities are supposed to retire at 65. 

 Quoting various sections of the Patna University and Bihar State Universities Act, 1976 and Universities (Amendment) Act, 2013, Patna University English department head Shiv Jatan Thakur has urged the chancellor to direct all the universities to retire the principals at the age of 62, since it has been established beyond doubt that the principal of a college is a non-teaching employee of the university. 
 
 Some principals who are continuing in service even beyond 62 include   principal Rakesh Verma, College of Commerce, Science and Arts principal Baban Singh and B D College principal P K Verma.
 
 “Their retention in service beyond the date of their superannuation, i.e. 62 years, for any consideration whatsoever is manifestly fraud on law and financial misdemeanour, which is amenable to penal action under Sections 409 & 420 of the Indian Penal Code for the offences of criminal breach of trust by public servant and cheating,” Thakur added.
 
 Legal experts say Section 2 of Patna University (Amendment) Act, 2012 and Bihar State Universities (Amendment) Act, 2012 clearly excludes “principals” from the cadre of teachers as it states that “teacher means person holding the post of only university professor/professor, reader and lecturer”. While upholding the validity of the Universities (Amendment) Act, 2012, the Patna high court, in its judgment in the CWJC No. 4395/2014 on January 6, 2014, had ruled, “The UGC Regulations are made applicable inter alia to every university established or incorporated by or under a central Act, a provincial Act or a state Act. Thus, it is apparent that apart from the aforesaid three cadres of professor, reader and lecturer, other cadres in a university or affiliated institutions are not recognized as teaching posts under the UGC Act and the UGC Regulations.” 
 
 The Patna high court judgment was upheld by the Supreme Court in the Civil Appeal No. 6176-77/2015 dated February 27, 2017. Besides, Para 1 of the UGC Regulations, 2010 clearly states that “there shall be only three designations in respect of teachers in universities and colleges, namely assistant professor, associate professor and professor”. Furthermore, Para 4 of the Ordinance and Regulations governing the award of PhD degree notified by the governor’s secretariat stipulates that a supervisor must be a teacher of the university and the maximum number of candidates to be registered under an assistant professor, associate professor and professor shall be 4, 6 and 8, respectively. Evidently, principal has been excluded from the cadre of teacher for the purpose of being supervisor for the PhD scholar. 
 
 
