Popular TV reality shows   is all set to hit the TV screens from October 1st. The show will witness an interesting mix of celebrities and commoners. For the 11th season, the makers have come up with a spacious and vibrant house. A look at some pictures of the house.
 
  The house has been themed around pop art. The brief that was given to Art Director   was modern, colorful and vibrant.The living area looks like a comic strip. It has colorful lips, faces all over the wall and also on the coaches. One of the walls in the houses also has colorful buttons.
  
  The thought behind designing the house was something to aspire from and a lot of modern art has been used. To make things in the house a talking point between the contestants,   and his wife have placed small, but unique things.
  
  
 
  
  
  Omung has designed the house situated in   and his wife   has propped it up. The theme of the show Bigg Boss’ eyes has been very creatively used in different types of furniture like sofa and walls.
  
  Bathroom and store room have been merged together. The bathroom entry is from inside and a lot of greenery and plants has been used in the bathroom.
  
  Omung has tried to balance the colors by using a black and white theme in the confession room which is an important part of the Bigg Boss every year.
  
  The room has eyes all over the wall and the chair is very creatively designed like a car with car number plate. It looks very fascinating.
  
  
 
  
  One of the most discussed parts of the   this year is definitely the Jail. This year there is an underground jail with three beds and bathroom and toilet.
  
  The brief that was given to Omung was to make a jail that looks dangerous like it was in Sarabjit.
  
  The house has been constructed in the area of 19400 sq ft and there are 90 cameras installed which is more than last year. The house is more spacious and has a lot of greenery not only on floors but also on walls. The kitchen area is also very colorful and wooden crates have been used to make shelves.
  
  
 
  
  The floor has 3D pattern, there is a phonebooth sofa in red which is also one of the highlights. The dining table is round this time unlike past seasons. Bedroom walls are full of black and white photographs. The theme for bedroom was black, white and red. 
