CHENNAI: Opposition parties cornered the   in the assembly on Friday with 26 MLAs moving a calling attention motion, demanding to know what measures were being taken to mitigate the drinking  . Saidapet DMK MLA and former Chennai mayor M Subramanian moved the motion followed by Congress legislature party leader K R Ramaswamy. 

 Municipal administration and water supply minister SP Velumani said people will have to face the situation. “Unless there is sufficient rainfall, the situation is unlikely to improve,” he said. 
 
 “There has never been such an occasion in the past when so many MLAs have jointly moved a calling attention motion. The situation is so bad that barring the minister and the vacant seat (R K Nagar), all 232 MLAs will surely want to move the motion on the drinking water situation,” said Subramanian. He reeled out data on the number of panchayats, town panchayats, municipalities and corporations and said people across the state were suffering.
 
 He alleged that in his constituency people collected money and installed Sintex tanks. “Each tank cost Rs 25,000 and they have been set up with public contribution. Even though we set up tanks, there was no water in it for the past 15 days. Only last night it was filled up,” said Subramanian. 
 
 Ramaswamy pleaded with the government to give water free of cost instead of freebies. “You provide free rice and other goodies, but in villages in Sivaganga district people are forced to purchase water at Rs 15 per pot. Please provide water free of cost,” said Ramasamy. 
 
 The minister began his speech, describing the “historical drought” the state was facing. “We are doing our best to mitigate the sufferings. But, nature has failed us. In Chennai for instance, in April we were providing 500 million litres. Now, 470 million litres are being provided,” said Velumani. 
 
 He said water was being sourced from wells in Tiruvallur and Neyveli and borewells in Paravalaru, using high powered borewells to draw water from Sholavaram and Red Hills reservoirs. “The number of trucks with water tanks has been increased to 700 and they make 7,000 trips every day. Steps have been taken to install 150 India Mark 2 pumps in Chennai,” said the minister. 
 
 The poor storage situation in all the four reservoirs has worsened with water evaporating fast. Work has been taken up on a war footing at a total cost of Rs 105 crore to sink borewells in the reservoir beds. “A total of 10,800 storage tanks have been set up and water provided through tankers for streets that don’t get piped water,” Velumani said. 
 
