Edited. 500 words. Times News Network Panaji: Opposition leader Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar and his wife Savitri were booked on Friday in connection with a Rs 4.78 crore disproportionate assets case. Anti-corruption branch (ACB) sleuths also raided the Congressman’s Quepem residence, his party office in Quepem and his commercial office in Margao, and seized documents for examination.  ACB superintendent of police (SP) Bosco George, said if Kavlekar was unable to satisfactorily reply to questions pertaining to the case, the branch would consider arresting him and subjecting him to custodial interrogation.  In 2013, the ACB had received information that Kavlekar, the then chairman of the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC), had acquired 14 landed properties in Kerala worth crores of rupees. The branch had accordingly begun preliminary investigation and had conducted a slew of verification drives into his entire tenure as MLA and up to 2013.  George said the Quepem MLA had not disclosed details of the properties purchased in Kerala in his assets and liabilities statement submitted before the Lokayukta for the 2013-15 period. Investigations also revealed that Kavlekar had acquired most of the properties between January 1, 2007 and April 4, 2013, which has been termed the ‘check period’. “During the check period, Kavlekar’s declared income was found to be over Rs 8.8 crore, while his declared expenditure was over Rs 87.88 lakh. It is therefore likely that his savings amounted to only Rs 7.2 crore. Kavlekar had, however, acquired property worth over Rs 12.5 crore during the same period. Upon calculation, his total disproportionate assets during that duration were found to be worth Rs 4.78 crore,” the ACB SP said.  George further said the Congressman had obtained another Rs 5.5 crore through unsecured loans. “Although we believe this amount was obtained from shell companies in an attempt to account for payment of the assets he had purchased, we have given him the benefit of doubt and have not included it in the FIR. The matter, however, is subject to verification.” The ACB SP pointed out that it was unclear whether Kavlekar had received the Rs 5.5 crore through cheque, draft or cash, and how he was repaying it.  The branch said that of the total amount, the Congressman had taken Rs 1.7 crore from Akshit Exports, Rs 3 crore from Vibha Star and Rs 80 lakh from Prime Star. “Both, the Quepem MLA and his wife, have declared before the Lokayukta that their income is over Rs 1 crore. We have also looked into his tax returns and income generated from agriculture. Despite all these benefits, the disproportion is still very high,” he said.  The FIR against Kavlekar has been registered under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, while his wife - who is a director in his companies - has been booked under provisions of the Indian Penal Code. She will also be summoned for questioning. A team of ACB sleuths is expected to travel to Kerala to record the statements of the individuals who had sold the properties to Kavlekar. x-x-x-x-x-x-x-Gfx matter-x-x-x-x-x-x-x NOT ADDING UP * In 2013, ACB receives information that Kavlekar has purchased various properties in Kerala * The branch begins preliminary inquiry in the same year and finds that 14 properties were acquired by him * Also finds that a maximum number of properties was purchased between January 1, 2007 and April 4, 2013 * ACB questions Kavlekar in the case, but he fails to give satisfactory replies * The branch decides to register an FIR. Obtains approval of the chief secretary * Books Kavlekar and his wife, Savitri, on September 15, 2017 for disproportionate assets Kavlekar’s companies * Savitro Packing Products * Vrushal Estate and Development Pvt Ltd * Vrushal Hotel and Resorts Pvt Ltd * Vrushal Enterprises * M K Enterprises x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-Original copy noted-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x