NAGPUR: The latest transfer of officers, especially IPS cadre, has raised questions about the policy being followed by the  . This is even more surprising, said some senior police officers, since the city is the political and residential base of chief minister  , who also holds the home portfolio.

 Joint CP Santosh Rastogi, an officer of 1998 batch, has been transferred to Mumbai as Joint Commissioner of  , after little more than six months in Nagpur. IG, Nagpur range, Ravindra Kadam too was posted as Joint CP Pune in place of Sunil Ramanand, who was supposed to join   (State CID). The order was completely reversed within a fortnight, with Kadam now heading to State CID.
 
 M Rajkumar, IPS batch of year 2010, who had been transferred to the city in mid-2016, has got a plum posting as Yavatmal SP within six months, when the expected minimum tenure for an officer of his rank is two years. After serving in Naxal-affected Gadchiroli, Rajkumar had got a choice posting in Mumbai before being sent back to Vidarbha to join at Nagpur. However, Rajkumar’s luck smiled again and he was transferred as in-charge of a district, away from the gruelling post as chief of Zone-III in the city. His prompt transfer from the CM’s city, which is considered a tough proposition for any officer, has raised many questions.
 
 Similarly, Rajkumar’s batchmate Shailesh Balkawade deservedly got the post of SP, Rural. However, his former Zone-III colleague G Shreedhar too made a quick exit from the city after joining in mid-2016, leaving many shocked. Shreedhar, an officer of 2011 rank, is now posted as SP, Beed.
 
 Even as relatively junior officers like Rajkumar and Shreedhar are now joining as police chiefs of districts, their senior colleagues have been held back for reasons best known to the government. Batchmates Ishu Sindhu and Abhinash Kumar, belonging to 2007 batch, have been serving in the city since February 2014. Even DCP, crime, Ranjan Kumar Sharma, officer of 2006 batch, too has been in the city since 2014. DCP, Zone-1, Deepali Masirkar, belonging to 2008 batch, has been in the city since August 2014, after her inter-cadre migration to the state from Nagaland.
 
 An officer said that such   only affect the morale of the concerned personnel, who end up opting for central deputation. “Effective officers with proven track record leaving the state certainly does not augur well for the force,” he said.
 
 Also, the posts of three additional CPs in city, including that of crime, have been lying vacant in turns, with officers either making a quick exit or not turning up on being transferred here. In the latest farcical decision, additional CP Pratap Singh Patankar was promoted, but within a week he was shifted out to range, leaving the post vacant yet again.
 
 “It is not clear why the CM is not putting his foot down and regularizing transfers as per the laid down provisions and seniority,” said an officer on condition of anonymity.
 
