COIMBATORE: The   in   summoned former  , VC Arukutty in connection with the accident of the prime accused in the Kodanad murder case. Police officials said that as per phone records,  , former driver of J Jayalalithaa was also working for Arukutty in the past few years.

 “This is just a routine investigation and does not have any connection with the murder case. Since the accident took place at Attur and Arukutty is acquainted with the deceased, we wanted to question him regarding that,” said Attur Deputy superintendent of police, Pon Karthik Kumar.
 
 VC Arukutty who went to Attur after being summoned said he knew Kanagaraj as he had employed him to drive his friend car in Chennai. “I got acquainted with Kanagraj two years ago. I even got him a job at my friend’s house in Chennai and whenever I visited Chennai, he would only drive the car for me. I have helped him financially as well many times. But I never knew he could get involved in something as serious as this. It has been a long time since I spoke to him, almost a month,” he said.
 
 The inspector of Attur police station who is the investigating officer of the accident case registered at Attur said he was in Coimbatore attending the national women commission’s meeting. He reached Attur only late in the evening and questioned Arukutty. “It is part of the routine investigation process. We have summoned friends, family and acquaintances of Kanagraj and since Arukutty is also one of the acquaintances, he was summoned,” said inspector, Kesavan.
 
 Superintendent of Police, nilgiris district, Murali Rambha said that they had secured eight accused in the case. S Kanagaraj, the prime accused had died in an accident at Attur and Sayan was in the hospital recovering from the injuries. “We are still on the look-out for one more accused and are hopeful of catching him soon,” he said.
 
 On April 24, around 1.30am, a gang entered the Kodanad estate and murdered Om Bahadur and injured Krishna Bahadur, the guards at gate 10 of the estate. The gang is said to have looted the estate. However, police are yet to establish the details of loot. Following this, police named Jayalalithaa's former car driver S Kanagaraj and KV Sayan as the accused in the case. On April 28, Kanagaraj died in an accident near Salem, while Sayan sustained injuries in a separate accident in Kerala the same day.
 
