LUDHIANA: Ten days after a Barnala-based businessman was robbed of his car at gun point on   road, a city-based businessman from Sector 32 of Chandigarh road became a victim of two car thieves, who looted his at gunpoint in broad day light on Thursday.

 Businessman Harman Kumar along with his friend Gurjinder Singh had gone to a private bank in the sector 32 market on Chandigarh road. While returning, their car (Ford Fiesta) developed a technical snag following which they parked it on the slip road.
 
 Harman Kumar said oil was leaking from the engine. Meanwhile, two motorcycle-borne persons came and started thrashing him. The miscreants tried to snatch keys of the car. When he resisted, the accused pointed a gun at him following which he handed over the key to the miscreants. One of the miscreants drove away his car towards Samrala Chowk, while other fled on the motorcycle.
 
 Police from Division Number seven police station reached the spot and started investigations.
 
 Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police-IV Sandeep Sharma said that the mobile phones of victims were in the car when the incident happened. The police are trying to trace the location of car through mobile phones.
 
 He added that separate teams have been formed to trace the car. The police are also scanning   cameras installed in the area.
 
 Harman Kumar said that the accused were clean shaven, but had covered their head with cloth.
 
 Four unidentified miscreants had robbed a Barnala-based businessman of his car on Ludhiana-Ferozepur road on February 6 at gunpoint.
 
 
 
 
 Businessman Harman Kumar along with his friend Gurjinder Singh had gone to a bank in sector 32 market. While returning, their car (Ford Fiesta) developed a technical snag following which they parked it on the slip road
 
 Shortly, two motorcycle-borne persons came and started thrashing him. They tried to snatch keys of the car. When he resisted, the accused pointed a gun towards him following which he handed over the keys to them. 
 
 One of the miscreants drove away his car towards Samrala Chowk.
 
 Police are trying to trace the location of the car through victim’s mobile phone, which was in the car when the incident happened.
 
