PUNE: The district   has directed the   to pay a   of Rs 35,000 towards   and Rs 5,000 compensation to Wanowrie-resident   for wrongfully repudiating his claim for medical treatment. 

 The company had rejected the claim arguing that dental treatment was not covered under the policy. But the consumer court pointed out that dental treatment was only one of the various treatments Ghodke had availed during his three-day hospitalisation. As such, the insurer was liable to pay for other treatments and hospital room rent rather than reject his claim in toto, the bench ruled on May 15. 
 
 Ghodke had secured the insurance company’s ‘Good health group mediclaim policy’ for a sum insured of Rs 7.50 lakh and paid Rs 39,273 annual premium for the same. The policy was in operation from February 1, 2014 to January 31, 2015. A few months later, he underwent MRI and CT scan tests, which revealed that he was suffering from spondylitis. 
 
 Ghodke took radiculopathy and other treatments at a private hospital where he was admitted between December 24 and 26, 2014. 
 
 He spent Rs 61,971 for the same and submitted a claim with his insurer’s regional office on Karve Road, which the latter repudiated on the grounds that he took dental treatment that was not directly attributable to any accident or injury and was not within the purview of the policy. The company also claimed that hospitalisation was not succeeded by active line of treatment. 
 
 The consumer court bench of V P Utpat and Kshitija Kulkarni observed that the policy provided for a daily hospital room rent at 1% of the sum insured. In this case, the complainant was entitled to Rs 22,500.
 
 Referring to the hospital’s discharge summary, the bench pointed out that apart from dental treatment, the complainant took radiculopathy and other treatments. “In these circumstances, this forum is of the considered opinion that insurance company has wrongly repudiated the claim of the complainant,” the bench observed. However, it noted that the complainant had made certain excess claims that he was not entitled to and partly allowed his plea by ordering a lumpsum amount of Rs 35,000 towards settlement and Rs 5,000 compensation towards physical and mental agony.
 
 
