NAGPUR: The   assembled at various masjids in the city on Wednesday morning to listen to ‘waaz’, the discourse by the 53rd Da’i al-Mutlaq   from Surat, the centre of milad majlis celebrations. Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin, the religious leader and guide of Bohra community, celebrated his birthday along with his father the late 52nd Da'i al-Mutlaq Mohammed Burhanuddin’s birth anniversary. The much-awaited discourse was approximately four hours long in which Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin, apart from delivering a religious talk, spoke on certain key issues to uplift the Bohra community.

 Yusuf Topiwala, a businessman, said, “We began the programme by remembering the incident of Karbala where we lost Muhammad’s grandson  , and also ended the gathering by mourning him. Syedna sahib told us to keep ourselves pure through our deeds and keep the surroundings clean as extension of Swachh Bharat campaign carried out in Surat. He emphasized that “We take care of our parents and elders and respect our spouses in order to enhance relationships.”
 
 Hatimbhai Dhamangaonwala, secretary of the masjid in Shanti Nagar said, “We had been given a target this year to uplift community members who were below poverty line. We pooled in money and helped people either shift to new homes or repair the existing ones. And we also distributed utilitarian items.” Programmes to commemorate Syedna saheb’s birthday begin 40 days before the actual date. “We undertook tree plantation near the masjid and also invited doctors to give health tips to members,” he added.
 
 Community members also celebrated the day at their homes with lighting and preparation of sweets. “Women at home applied mehendi. We purchased new clothes for children and cut a cake,” said Yusuf Badsah, a trader. “A programme to inform members about GST was held at   and sports events were held at madrasa in Lakadganj,” he added.
 
 “Hakimi Masjid in Shanti Nagar saw the presence of about 1,200 people. After the discourse, we cut a cake, offered namaz and organized a feast for visitors. During the discourse, we were told to be loyal to our nation and keep our body and mind pure. Problems will always come in life and go. We must refrain from any kind of discrimination,” said Dhamangaonwala.
 
