Pimpri Chinchwad: After five years, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has finally started the process of drawing water from the   and   dams. 

 A total of 267 MLD (million litres per day) will be supplied to the twin cities to meet the growing needs for a population till 2045. Five years ago, the state irrigation department had sanctioned 167 MLD water from Bhama Askhed dam and 100 MLD from Andra dam. 
 
 The water from these two dams will be provided to the fringe areas of Bhosari, Chikhali, Dudulgaon and Dighi. Currently, the only water source is Pavana dam, from where PCMC supplies 450 MLD water to Pimpri Chinchwad areas.
 
 The civic body has invited bids for appointing a consultant to select an agency for implementing the project. The consultant agency, which would comprise a town planner and experts from finance, instrumentation technology, water and structural design, would have to prepare the tendering process. 
 
 A detailed project report has been prepared by Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran. The indicative cost of the water supply project is about Rs 500 crore. PCMC would bring the water through pipelines, construct water treatment plants and carry out allied works for equitable distribution of water in the city. 
 
 Currently, the population in the city is about 20 lakh. Due to increased urbanization, PCMC will have to cater to the needs of the increased population. PCMC has already listed the proposal for bringing in water from the two dams in 2017-18 civic budget. 
 
 Last month, PCMC had decided to give Rs 200 crore in instalments to the irrigation department for bringing water from the two dams. The irrigation department had sought the charges for the civic project. 
 
 PCMC on the other hand had told the irrigation department to waive the charges. The project was delayed as the municipal corporation had not paid the charges. PCMC would pay the amount in instalments, BJP leader of the house Eknath Pawar had said. 
 
 Another reason for bringing water from the two dams is to boost the direct pipeline supply from the Pavana dam which has been delayed for nearly nine years. 
 
 Currently, PCMC draws water from the Pavana river at Ravet village bund. The project, listed under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission, began in May 2008.
 
 
