NAVI MUMBAI: A school bus ran over a nine-year-old student while he was crossing the road to reach his building in Sector 27,  , on Monday at around 1pm. Samved Taralkar, a student of NCRD Sterling School in Sector 19, Nerul, died on the spot.

 The boy had alighted from his school bus and was crossing the road to reach his building, when a speeding private bus that was ferrying children of various schools knocked him down. The   took place right in front of the victim’s mother, who was standing at the gate of her building, Ishwar Bliss CHS, watching her son cross the road.
 
 Samved was rushed to Apollo Hospital in Nerul where doctors declared him brought dead. The accused, bus   Govind Rai (21), was  . Rai was employed as a driver by Ansari Enterprises, a private bus firm.
 
 Investigating officer, assistant inspector Santosh Jadhav said, “The accused sped away after the incident as he might have feared that he would be beaten up by the public. He was arrested from the Nerul office of Ansari Enterprises.” 
 
 He has been booked under section 304A and 279 of the IPC along with the Motor Vehicle Act under Section 184 and 134(a) (b) for rash and negligent driving causing death of the schoolboy.”
 
 Jadhav said, “The victim’s father, Vidhyadhar Taralkar, 42, works for an MNC in Andheri, while his mother is a homemaker. He has a six-year-old sister who studies at St Augustine School in Nerul. The boy’s mother was inconsolable but yet managed to give her statement to the police, saying she saw her son being hit by the private bus while he was crossing the road. The bus driver was speeding though the spot was an intersection of four roads. 
 
 She stated the bus came suddenly from the opposite lane and ran over her son while he was crossing the road to reach the building’s gate where she was waiting to receive him after his school bus dropped him near the building.”
 
 When contacted, Vashi deputy RTO Sanjay Dole said, “The mini-bus involved in the fatal incident has the mandatory RTO permit for ferrying school children. Ansari Enterprises has inked an agreement with a school and has been permitted to ferry school children. Hence, the said school bus was not plying illegally.”
 
 
