LUCKNOW: With polling for the seventh and last phase over and only three days left for the long awaited results of the Assembly elections, it would now be interesting to see who will be writing the final chapter of the raging family feud in the   clan. Will it be  , chief minister and president of the  , who addressed 221 rallies across the state in the last 40 days, or his father and founder of SP,   Singh Yadav.   may have upstaged his father to become party president and but he has learnt much from Mulayam Singh, which was evident from the way he mingled with the public. No other leader campaigned for Ambedkar Nagar seat which was countermanded following death of a BSP candidate, while Akhilesh campaigned in the region till Wednesday. 

 On the other hand, Mulayam’s second wife Sadhna Gupta speaking against Akhilesh Yadav on the eve of the last polling day while defending the stance of   Yadav proved that the fight over Mulayam’s legacy that began on November 1 at the Janseshwar Mishra Park in Lucknow has not ended yet and would keep cropping every now and then.
 
 The ouster of Shivpal and Amar Singh by Akhilesh and later his victory in the battle for the party symbol cycle gave him confidence to handled all ticket distribution single-handedly, even at the cost of denying it to some winnable MLAs like Zeenat Khan in Patiyali in Kaasganj and Sadaf Fatima in Ghazipur.
 
 As Akhilesh and his wife Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav took control in place of Mulayam and Shivpal, the family feud raised its head in stray incidents as of Shivpal threatening that those who have harmed him will not be spared even as he appealed to Jaswantnagar voters to ensure his victory, it was clear that the feud was far from over. 
 
 Shivpal Yadav was further angered when his cousin and Akhilesh’s new guide and mentor Ram Gopal Yadav—also the party’s Rajya Sabha member—and said “party ka bachaa hua kooda bhi March 11 ko baahar kar diya jayega (remaining scrap of the party would be thrown out on March 11 after the results)”. Isolated and marginalised, Shivpal has remained tight- lipped. When the ToI contacted him, his reply was “Wait for March 11. Kabhi kabhi samay bahut see cheezon ka jawab de deta hai (time has the answer to many posers)”.
 
 Sadhna Gupta, who has never spoken in public for over 25 years since she was married to Mulayam gave a new twist to the family saga when said that she and her son Prateek Yadav would also battle for Mulayam Singh Yadav’s and said, “Ab nahin chup rahoongi...bahut sah liya (I have tolerated enough. Will not remain quiet any more).
 
 The performance of the SP-Congress alliance anchored by Akhilesh Yadav without taking Mulayam Singh or any other party veteran into confidence would pose a challenge for Akhilesh Yadav and that would be his litmus test on dealing with the family feud. Obviously, if the alliance does well, Akhilesh Yadav would remain undisputed heir of Mulayam’s legacy as he has now but if the alliance doesn’t live up to the expectations, he could be facing another rebellion in the family, while those in the party who have been lying low all through the drama may raise questions over the decision to dislodge Mulayam Singh Yadav, taking total control of the party and joining hands with Congress besides the stance of denying tickets to Mulayam-Shivpal followers.
 
 Before the election process began, the dismissed state president of the party Shivpal Yadav had announced he would form his party after March 11. In any eventuality, it remains to be seen whether he does what he claimed or is shown the door from the party by the new party chief.
 
 Akhilesh has already weighed all his options and seems prepared. An electoral defeat or two in any political party is part of the game. What makes Akhilesh confident of no threat to his leadership is his direct contact even at the village level among party workers as well as public, who have accepted and welcomed him as the leader of the Samajwadi Party .
 
 
