GOA: Subhash Velingkar, who stormed out, karyakartas and all, of the   (RSS) last year, says the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Goa is more corrupt than the Congress government that had earlier ruled the state. As his Goa Suraksha Manch (GSM) goes to polls, the long-time former   chief says Union defence minister   is making desperate attempts to get the   re-elected in Goa. He also said that after the polls, he would return to the original RSS and that his breakaway faction will cease to exist.

 At present, there’s every possibility of Goa heading for a hung assembly. What would be the GSM’s stand if such a circumstance arises?
 
 In such a situation, GSM would prefer a re-election. Where the MoI issue is concerned, Congress, BJP, AAP and GFP are of one view and our alliancecomprising GSM, MGP and Shiv Senais of another view. So there is no question of backing anyone else who has a differing stand on the MoI. 
 
 What if BJP seeks GSM’s support to form the government?
 
 We feel such a situation will not arise. BJP itself doesn’t believe it will get that many seats, which is why you see a frantic and desperate Manohar Parrikar. They are taking in the likes of (Pandurang) Madkaikar and Mauvin (Godinho), readymade candidates who are sure of being re-elected. It is the same Parrikar who chargesheeted these people. It shows desperation. BJP will not win more than five seats. It may seem like a joke now, but this is the undercurrent.
 
 But the BJP is campaigning quoting its various schemes and developmental projects.
 
 People are not only about money. There is more to them than that. They have sentiments and ideologies. Where the question of development is concerned, everyone has done something; the Congress has done it, the MGP has done it.
 
 According to you, what is the difference between the Congress and BJP?
 
 There is no difference. In fact, BJP is a step ahead in every way, even in terms of corruption.
 
 The state BJP leadership claims that its MoI policy, which includes grants to 134 English-medium primary schools, has been accepted by the RSS headquarters in Nagpur and you opposing it led to your removal from the post of Goa RSS chief.
 
 The excuse given was that a sangachalak cannot be part of political activities. But I was always part of political activities, even during the ‘Congress hatao’ movement, which brought the current BJP government to power. At the March 2012 Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha of the Sangh, a resolution was passed stating that primary education should be in regional languages only. At first, the Sangh supported the same policy for Goa. The Konkan prant’s office-bearers, Sunil Sapre and Abhijaat Gokhule, accordingly held two meetings in Goa, where sangh karyakartas were told that they should fully support this policy. But then, the elections came by and the karyakartas were told not to cause any obstructions.
 
 Would it not be correct to say that RSS’ Nagpur headquarters agreed to Parrikar’s version of the MoI policy?
 
 No one in RSS had the guts to tell Manohar (Parrikar) to toe the line on the MoI policy. The Parrikar-led government had, in fact, been elected on the slogan that grants to English medium schools would be withdrawn. He could have immediately withdrawn the grants, but he didn’t. In fact, he even cheated the Sangh leadership. At a meeting in Delhi with Sangh leaders like Bhaiyyaji Joshi, Parrikar promised to form an academic authority consisting of educationists. On returning to Goa, he told all his BJP colleagues that he had managed everything. This meant that BJP leaders in Goa stopped responding to us.
 
 A panel on MoI was formed much later.
 
 When we (RSS Goa leaders) told the Sangh leaders that Parrikar had gone back on his promise, a second meeting was held where Parrikar tactfully claimed he was now a central minister and sent Vinay Tendulkar and Laxmikant (Parsekar) to attend the Sangh meeting. They didn’t know Parrikar had already formed an academic authority in 2012the SCERTin a two-line notification. In Goa, the SCERT does not even have a full-time director and its staff are under-qualified. But Parsekar promised the Sangh leaders that an academic authority would be formed and so the current MoI panned was constituted. It is not an academic authority. All this was done only to keep the BJP government in Goa intact.
 
 You have said previously that you will go back to the RSS post the elections.
 
 We are swayamsevaks. We remain swayamsevaks. We will attend the shakas again as usual after the polls. There are no two groups in the RSS. We came out99% of usonly because we wanted to be true to our principles.
 
 So, after February 5, the breakaway RSS faction will cease to exist?
 
 Like I said, we are the Sangh’s swayamsevaks. We didn’t want to abandon our principles for elections. I have been with the Sangh for 55 years. We, swayamsevaks and karyakartas, earned a credibility for ourselves in Goa. If we had compromised for the BJP, our credibility would have been lost and nobody would have entertained us again.
 
 So you mean to say that the RSS headquarters has diluted its principles in a way.
 
 There definitely is a different feeling among the cadre. It’s just that its members have not yet shown the courage to rebel in other states. It is for the first time in 90 years of the RSS that I have shown such courage in Goa. In Ratnagiri, there was a movement against the foreign company, Enron, based on the swadeshi principles. The Sangh accordingly pitched karyakarta Surendra Thatte, an architect, who turned it into a big movement. But then, the state BJP took big bucks, running into crores, from Enron, to finance the elections and the prant’s RSS went silent on Enron. Even today, if anyone brings up the subject of Enron, they shut you up and Thatte has been sidelined since. Others didn’t have the courage to stand with him. They should have. In Goa, karyakartas stood with me.
 
 The RSS cadre has always backed the BJP. This time around, will the cadre choose the GSM over the BJP?
 
 Cent per cent. The Sangh and the BJP are different. The cadre concept of a political party and the Sangh is different. It is not attached to any leaders. The Sangh never has slogans like ‘Manohar Parrrikar, tum aage bado, Subhash Velingkar tum aage bado’. BJP, or other parties, are attached to individual figures. The Sangh is attached to principles.
 
 Won’t a culture of voting for the BJP translate into votes for the BJP again?
 
 Not necessarily. If the BJP gives up on its principles, karyakartas won’t vote for it. There have been such examples. Atal Bihari Vajpayee-ji, as the party president, tried to change the ideology of BJP to Gandhian socialism. Socialism was not acceptable. Atal-ji went ahead by setting aside the RSS view. BJP had 99 seats at the time, which were reduced to two because no one from Sangh cadre voted or worked for them. In Delhi recently, they brought in Kiran Bedi as the CM candidate. There were ideological differences, and so AAP was elected. May be karyakartas voted on a large scale for the AAP, but that doesn’t mean they are with the AAP.
 
 They wanted to teach BJP a lesson?
 
 Yes. When the BJP loses in Goa, the losing MLAs and everyone else will hold Manohar Parrikar responsible. He has worked hard but he is not a team player. He takes a decision and expects everyone to follow it chanting, ‘Yes sir, yes sir.’ The Goa elections will be an eye-opener for the BJP and the Sangh nationally. It will force them to carry out a major overhaul.
 
 BJP itself doesn’t believe it will get that many seats, which is why you see a frantic and desperate Manohar Parrikar
 
 
