MUMBAI: Rajiv Mishra, who had first filed a  , filed a fresh petition on July 7, challenging the amendment to the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act ( ), allowing regularisation of illegal constructions.

 In his petition, Mishra In his petition, Mishra has said that the amendment to the MRTP Act is illegal and arbitrary. It has been done “to give shelter to illegal and unauthorised constructions by developers, land grabbers, wilful defaulters who have carried on unauthorised construction in complete disregard of the law, and with the amendment will be eligible to regularise the illegal construction as a matter of right,“ states the petition.
 
 Mishra has asked for the amendment to be declared illegal and set aside.
 
 Mishra had first filed a petition in 2013 against illegal constructions in Digha, Navi Mumbai. When the court ordered demolition of illegal constructions on CID CO, MIDC land, the government came up with its first regularisation policy in 2016 which was rejected by the court. The government did not challenge the court's order in Supreme Court but came up with a second regularisation policy which also was rejected by the court in March 2017.
 
 The government then took the legislative route to amend the MRTP Act and allow regularisation of illegal constructions. The draft rules were issued on Friday .
 
 In his petition, Mishra said the inclusion of the definition of Compounding structure under section 5A of the amended Act gives unfettered power to collector and planning authority to regularise illegal constructions on any land whether its on Govt. Acquired Land, Inam Land, Gairan Land, Playground, public places etc or whether the unauthorised and illegal construction is constructed in blatant and deliberate disregard of the law by developers for profits, by charging compounding charges, infrastructure charges and premium etc.
 
 “The object and intent of the MRTP is that the development in Maharashtra state should be done in planned manner. However, the amendment seeks to negate the very object of the MRTP Act,“ states the petition.
 
 The high court has set August 9 as the date for the next hearing.
 
