BENGALURU: Dissidence in the BJP’s state unit escalated on Friday with senior party leader and former minister   expressing dissatisfaction over party chief B S Yeddyurappa’s style of functioning.

 “Yeddyurappa has changed a lot after becoming the party president. He has isolated himself from many seniors and listens only to a few second-rung leaders in the party. We desperately want Yeddyurappa of yore to lead us into the 2018 assembly polls,” said Somanna, after holding talks with former deputy chief minister R Ashoka in the backdrop of reports that he was contemplating joining the Congress.
 
 Without taking names, Somanna said some leaders are misguiding Yeddyurappa and forcing him to take hasty decisions against the party’s interest. This has caused severe heartburn among many party leaders, he added. 
 
 Union minister  , who was in Bengaluru to attend a public function, said he has been apprising the national leadership of the unsavoury developments in the party state unit. “It’s my duty as a Union minister. What’s happening is very unfortunate, and it’s not good for the party, especially when it’s gearing up to face 2018 assembly polls,” he added.
 
 Exhorting Yeddyurappa to take everyone into confidence and lead the party, Gowda said he too had faced similar dissidence when he was the state unit president before the party came to power in Karnataka for the first time in 2008. “But I had never let my ego or anger control me, and took everyone into confidence,” Gowda added.
 
 BSY refuses to react: Yeddyurappa, however, refused to react to Somanna’s comment, and said the party’s national leaders are watching all the developments in the state unit and they’ll take an appropriate decision at an appropriate time.
 
 “Some leaders have their differences with me, and I’m ready to hold dialogues with them to sort it all out. At the behest of my senior leaders, I have decided not to air my views before the media,” he said. Yeddyurappa said he’d rather focus on the two-day state BJP executive committee meeting starting Saturday. He also clarified that the meeting will only discuss important issues plaguing the state, and not Eshwarappa or the  .
 
 I’m not joining Congress: Somanna
 
 Four-time MLA and former BJP minister V Somanna rubbished reports that he was planning to join the Congress. "I’m not going anywhere. I will continue to work and strengthen the party," said Somanna.
 
 Earlier in the day, Ashoka held talks with Somanna in the backdrop of reports that he was joining the Congress. Somanna, who is a known party-hopper, joined the BJP in 2009 when BS Yeddyurappa was chief minister, after he lost twice to Priya Krishna, son of housing minister
 
 A Krishnappa from Govindrajnagar assembly constituency.
 
 In 2016, he was elected to the legislative council despite stiff opposition from Yeddyurappa. Somanna had fallen from the former CM’s grace after he refused to quit and join Yeddyurappa’s own political party, KJP. Though he eventually managed to become MLC with the help of a powerful pontiff, Yeddyurappa refused to accept
 
 him in his team.
 
 Upset with this, Somanna was reportedly considering joining the Congress. Party leaders, at the behest of chief minister  , have been trying to lure him to the party. Congress desperately needs a Lingayat face in south Karnataka to fill the void left by late H S Mahadeva Prasad, who was cooperation minister.
 
 Congress leaders have reportedly offered Somanna a ticket from Hanur constituency in Chamarajanagar district, which has a sizeable Lingayat vote bank. Sources, however, say Somanna is keeping his options open.
 
