NEW DELHI: On a day Delhi assembly speaker Ram Niwas Goel accepted the resignation of AAP’s Bawana MLA Ved Prakash who joined BJP on Monday, AAP’s   Rajesh Rishi created a stir as he took to Twitter to dispense advice on staying away from “sycophants”. Though he didn’t name anyone, he tagged chief minister   and even   in some of the  .

 Though he later deleted some of those tweets and reportedly rejected reports that he was leaving AAP, BJP was quick to seize the opportunity to attack Kejriwal. However, AAP functionaries denied there was any trouble.
 
 BJP’s leader of opposition in the assembly   pounced on Rishi’s tweets to allege that several AAP MLAs were unhappy with the party. “Rishi today voiced concerns of majority of AAP MLAs by saying that they are unhappy with the way some leaders around the CM have monopolised AAP’s functioning,” said Gupta. 
 
 Rishi could not be reached on phone despite several attempts but earlier in the day, he had reportedly admitted that he was unhappy about the candidates being nominated for the municipal polls in his constituency, but this could not be verified from him as he was not available for comment. 
 
 Meanwhile, former   Ved Prakash on Thursday alleged that he was being “mentally tortured” ever since he has resigned from the party. He claimed that the speaker has not accepted his resignation even after three days. “I’m being mentally tortured even after leaving the party (AAP). They are sending MLAs and party members to ask me to reconsider my decision,” said Ved Prakash, who was called by speaker Goel on Thursday.
 
 Rejecting the allegations, Goel told TOI that since Ved Prakash had submitted his resignation to his office, he was trying to contact him over phone, but he was unreachable. 
 
 “Finally, I told my office on Thursday to contact Ved Prakash and ask him to come and meet me at 3pm. Ved Prakash told my office that he could come at 1pm. This was a well thought-out conspiracy as I was with a candidate for the municipal polls from my assembly constituency, who was filing his nomination papers. I rushed form there and reached by 1.45. So, I did not make Ved Prakash wait unreasonably. Circumstances were created to make it look like I was making him wait,” Goel said.
 
 “As speaker, it is my duty to ask an MLA if he was resigning of his will or under any kind of pressure. I just followed my duty when I met Ved Prakash and then accepted his resignation. That is it,” Goel added.
 
