Patna: The state government has started deliberations on extending subsidy on the new power tariff proposed to be implemented from April 1. Chief minister   held a meeting on the issue with senior officials from energy department on Wednesday.

 Later, another meeting was held on the same issue under the chairmanship of chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh. Sources said a final meeting on the issue is slated to be convened by the CM on Thursday.
 
 Energy department sources said the state government might announce the subsidy to be given to different categories of power consumers in the state assembly on Thursday or Friday as the new tariff structure is slated to be implemented from Saturday.
 
 Though the   (BERC) on March 24 said the hike was average 55%, it would be in the range of 70 to 90% for urban domestic consumers. The hike was announced without taking subsidy into consideration, the   had clarified. 
 
 “It was initially decided that the state government would take a call on subsidy to be provided to different categories of consumers after finalization of tariff. The department had prepared an overall framework for subsidy to be given to different categories of consumers even before announcement of tariff order by BERC. The final round of deliberations is now being held to finalize the subsidy structure,” said a senior official in  .
 
 Till the fiscal 2016-17, the retail tariff for the   families, rural domestic and rural non-domestic consumers besides farmers were subsidized to a large extent from the resource grant assistance received from the state government.
 
 The BERC, while announcing the power tariff for 2017-18, had stated that if the state government extended subsidy support to BPL and rural consumers, as agreed under UDAY scheme of the government of India, the overall hike may come down from 55% to around 28%.
 
 Sources said this time even urban domestic consumers are likely to be extended subsidy, though less than for the rural and BPL consumers.
 
 
