 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For any actor the moment his/her show is about to get over, they would be seriously looking for their next project to ensure they are in circulation and not be a thing of past. And if not like that they would be working for their next big B-town break. But for small screen's well-known actor,  , 2017 seems to be an interesting year as his plate is full of interesting assignments that’s sure going to keep him busy for the coming months. The actor gets candid and talks about his future assignments, his   and why success and failure will never affect him. Excerpts:
 
 
 The experience of working in Jamai Raja where the male lead was given equal importance as the female lead was an enriching experience for me. As for now, there are many things that I’m looking forward to, and working on few interesting projects, but I can’t reveal much now. Also   and I are planning to launch our production house and want to churn out edgy and captivating content that suits audiences of all age-groups. 
 
 
 
 I’m really happy about Sargun’s debut movie and I’m happy with the way her career is shaping up. Again, I’m reading scripts,but cannot say much at this point. But I will make an announcement soon.
 
 
 I cannot comment whether the content is really that regressive. Till now I have done projects where the story line has always been engaging. However, if story lines are regressive, then it is time we churn relevant stories.
 
 
 
 I believe that the culprits should be given dire punishments to make them understand that there is no mercy for such heinous crimes. Unfortunately, we delay in taking strict actions towards the criminals which gives them freedom to do more crimes. The moment we start taking strict actions and change the mentality of men, things will improve.
 
 
 
 I never let success and failure affect me because they don’t control my life. But I control my life, I have been practicing Nichiren Buddhism for the last for years now, and I feel far happier now. 
 
 
