Nagpur: On the final day of Expressions  , attendees were treated to soul stirring lines of poetry recited by actor and lyricist Piyush Mishra in the evening. 

 “I have lived a bad life, ruined by alcohol and ego,” he said. On being asked what independent cinema means to him, he said, “Cinema is meant to entertain. We have made the definition of art complicated. Art is life. Why can’t you describe art in a song?” Kumar shared events from his life, his take on movies, and about his younger days. 
 
 “I was a big achiever in life but would have sleepless nights. My achievements weighed heavy on my head. There is no bigger thing than humility,” he said, adding, “I am not a cinema person, but I might have a problem if you take my acting away from me.”
 
 In the afternoon, a panel discussion was conducted on the topic, ‘How can you make big impact with short films?’ Producer Milind Kulkarni and filmmakers Kundan Sad and Aditya Sharma interacted with RJ Preeti and organizer Shailesh Narwade. While panellists agreed that short films in Nagpur are not at par with the rest, they underlined the reasons why. “People here want success quickly. They don’t look in the mirror. People think their debut movie is brilliant because they haven’t worked before. You have to persevere to rise,” said Sharma.
 
 Kulkarni pointed out that women are too less in the industry, and the movies we see have subjects out of men’s mind. Giving advice to aspiring filmmakers, Sad said, “Socializing and making contacts will help you a long way. Meet people, go to different movie sets. You don’t realize the number of people you will meet and how you might bond with someone in future.”
 
 On Saturday, the festival saw a discussion on women’s place in the industry, being helmed by actor-producer Rajshree Landge. Sharing her views, Landge said that a woman in the industry should strive towards being called an artiste rather than just performing a peppy item song. She also spoke about how it is important to respect one another and for films to showcase strong women.
 
 A panel discussion on ‘Can theatre be a gateway to cinema?’ was also held on Saturday evening. Founder of Bahujan Rangbhoomi theatre Virendra Ganvir, Rangrasia theatre founder Sandeep Daberao, theatre artiste Rupesh Pawar and Sanjay Bhakre of SBF non-profit theatre organization came together to share about various phases of films and theatre.
 
 When asked about the opportunities for theatre artistes in film industry, the experts answered positively. Yes, there are opportunities, but the method of entering into film industry is not uniform. Bhakre, said, “Many of the budding artistes’ run behind the glamour but none of them understand the process.” He suggested aspiring actors to work in theatre for 8 to 10 years.
 
 (With inputs from Konika Miglani)
 
 
