GURUGRAM:   ( ) on Wednesday slapped notices on all hotels, restaurants and pubs in Sector 29 for flouting   and dumping their   into the municipal drains that finally connect to the  . The board has also asked the hotel and pub owners to immediately install effluent treatment plants ( ) on their premises so as to treat waste water coming out of their establishments.

 Officials said the notices were issued after HSPCB found, during multiple inspections, that restaurants and pubs were causing major pollution — especially the microbreweries as they release untreated malt waste into the drains.
 
 “For the past one year, we have been giving warnings to the restaurants and pubs in Sector 29, especially the microbreweries to install ETPs. However, no action has been taken yet. We, therefore, had no option but to issue notices so that the pollution norms are followed at the earliest. Now, if any restaurant, hotel or pub fails to comply with the norms, we will impose heavy penalty on that unit,” a senior official of HSPCB told TOI.
 
 In fact, during the inspections, HSPCB found the level of BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) and COD (chemical oxygen demand) are way above the prescribed value. As per norms, one litre of discharged water shouldn’t have BOD levels more than 30 mg and COD levels more than 250 mg. As per an estimate, a restaurant, on an average, discharges 2,000 to 3,000 litres of waste water every day, while a microbrewery discharges 2,500 to 4,500 litres. A three-star or four-star hotel discharges 4,000 to 6,000 litres of waste water daily.
 
 According to the effluent standards for hotels notified by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, owners of restaurants, hotels, eating joints, banquet halls and restaurants with a minimum seating capacity of 36 need to adhere to waste management norms.
 
 Talking about the damage caused to water bodies by waste discharge from restaurants and hotels, Vivek Kamboj, an environmentalist, said, “While a few housing societies have taken a lead in waste management, restaurants and hotels that cause major pollution via discharged water are never talked about. Discharge of effluents generated by restaurants and hotels get mixed with city’s sewage and ultimately lead to contamination of groundwater and rivers.”
 
 The Sector 29 market has 54 restaurants, five microbreweries and five three- and four-star hotels.
 
 
