Nagpur: This year the first day of March or Ash Wednesday marked the beginning of 40-day Lent period for Christians, who observe it with fasting and piety. Falling 46 days ahead of Easter, (six Sundays are not counted as they are not fasting days), Lent is a period of intense austerity and prayer with Wednesdays and Fridays holding a special meaning.  “Though not everybody fasts during this period, it is mandatory to do so on Wednesdays and Fridays for all who are above 18 years and below 60,” says Father Jerome Pinto, vicar general of St Martin Deporres Chruch at Jaripatka.  Fridays are sacred as they are days of mourning and also the day when Christ was crucified. “We prepare for the resurrection of Jesus Christ through prayer, penance, repentance and self-denial,” adds Father Pinto. The sacrament of confession is mandatory for all Catholic Christians the priest says. “Our advice to all practising Christians is that they should reflect inwardly to change their relationship with God first and then with their family and others if it requires change. Prayer, penance, alms giving and fasting are desired acts during this time,” he says.  The church holds special programmes to involve the youth like the Way of Cross held on Wednesdays and Fridays. “I make it a point to be present in the church during these two days,” says Bevin McLeod, a class X student. “The period is of abstinence so most of us give up one meal. I also give up non-vegetarian food,” he informs. The fast-paced life and the race to acquire material wealth has made many forget the real purpose of being born, feels scientist Blaze D’Souza. “Today people have loads of money and lots to eat so not many do fasting. As a child we would give up a meal and the money saved would be given to the needy as alms giving is also desired during Lent. I feel people today should be polite and forgiving if they want to do some penance during this period,” he says. Being a part of the church choir and singing hymns also helps one to introspect says Cynthia Titus, a corporate employee. “I fast and visit the church on Wednesdays and Fridays. The prayers are deeper when we sing the hymns and it also help us to understand and follow the path that god wants us to take,” she says.