MANALI: The higher reaches of   received moderate to heavy snow on Wednesday. A heavy spell of   has cheered the residents even though normal life has been thrown out of gear as the valley is covered with 60-90cm of snow. This is the heaviest spell of snowfall in landlocked Lahaul this season.

 Snowfall has snapped electricity lines in most villages and telephone service has also been partially paralyzed. As all internal roads have been completely blocked, dozens of villages have lost contact with  .The region has been experiencing continuous snowfall since Tuesday . While Keylong and Udaipur have received over 60cm snow, Sissu and Koksar have got over 90cm and 100cm fresh snow, respectively.
 
 “We have finally received good snow. We are used to living without electricity and road connectivity for weeks. We want more snow as it will be be neficial for us in summer,“ Sher Singh Bodh, a resident of Keylong, told TOI over phone.on January 18, the locals had taken refuge of deities and prayed for heavy to very heavy snowfall.
 
 Meanwhile, the district administration has issued an alert and requested people to stay indoors. Lahaul-Spiti deputy commissioner Vivek Bhatia, superintendent of police Raman Kumar and other officials on Wednesday took stock of the situation in Keylong.The administration has asked all departments to be ready to deal with any disaster.
 
 “People have been requested not to venture out unnecessarily. As the snow accumulation is increasing, there are chances of avalanches at some places. There is prediction for heavy snowfall in the next 24 hours. We are on an alert and keeping an eye on the situation,“ Bhatia said.
 
 Kalpa, ancient capital of Kinnaur district, also received heavy snowfall. The region has received over 30cm of fresh snow since Tuesday evening.Solang and Kothi in Manali received 5cm each while Rohtang is expected to have received over 120cm snow. All high altitude peaks in the state are continuously receiving snow while lower regions have been lashed with rain. Minimum temperature in Keylong, Manali and Kalpa was recorded at minus 0.2°C, 1°C and minus 1.2°C, respectively . The day temperature in the state has decreased by 3-4°C in the last 24 hours.
 
