NAGPUR: The  , in collaboration with other departments and  , will be planting   between July 1 and 7 in Nagpur as well as five neighbouring districts under the state government’s initiative of planting 50 crore saplings in the next three years.

 Addressing a press conference held at the office of the Nagpur Divisional Commissioner on Monday, chief conservator of forests Sanjeev Gaur stated that the objective is to achieve 33% green cover from the current 16% in the state by planting different species of trees in as many barren places as possible. “This will also help to conserve environment which has been suffering due to global warming,” said Gaur.
 
 He informed that the state will also focus on participation by general public in the drive which will serve as an awareness programme too. Saplings of tamarind, bakul, mango, peepal, teak, kino, bamboo custard apple etc will be planted in residential as well as open fields.
 
 Pits 2-1.5 feet in width and depth will be dug up depending on the requirements of different tree species and 3-4 feet tall saplings will be planted, Gaur added. Trees like mango, banyan etc will be planted three metres apart from each other while ones with a wider spread will be planted four meters apart from each other.
 
 Target for the current year is 11.93 lakh trees in Nagpur, 8.63 lakh in Wardha and 7.90 lakh in Bhandara. The rate of   across the state will increase year-on-year as 13 crore saplings will be planted in 2018 and another 33 crores in 2019 to reach the 50 crore target. On July 1, 2016, 2.83 crore saplings were planted in the state.
 
 According to Gaur, no funds have been allocated for this drive, instead participating departments will utilize funds allocated for various government schemes.
 
 Drive for fresh water fish
 
 Divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar, who chaired the conference, said that Nagpur division’s ‘Talav tethe masoli (fish where lake)’ campaign starting on Tuesday is aimed at increasing fish population in fresh water bodies within the division. “This will help strengthen the fishery industry,” he said.
 
 He added that the diet of people below the poverty line lacks protein, making their children prone to diseases. “Availability of fresh water fish can help improve their health,” said Kumar.
 
 The campaign will start from Bhandara district since it has the maximum water bodies in Vidarbha, said Kumar and added that the campaign is being carried out under the central government’s ‘Blue Revolution’ for integrated development and management of fisheries.
 
 The campaign will later spread to Nagpur, Chandrapur, Gondia and Gadchiroli districts which boast a total fresh water coverage of 1.1 lakh hectare. Funds from schemes like Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee and Maharashtra Gramin Jeevanonatti Abhiyan will be utilized for the drive.
 
