AMARAVATI: The state government's zeal to create permanent   in rural areas under National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS) is benefiting contractors more than daily wagers. While NREGS was initiated to provide employment to the rural poor particularly during summer months, the mass migration of villagers in search of jobs indicates the partial failure of the programme in AP. 

 Officials on the ground said that the panchayat raj department's focus on works which need more material and machines than manpower is the root cause of the problem. Notably, the state government won several awards at the national level for effective implementation of NREGS in the just concluded financial year. This development greatly contradicts the situation in   where thousands of locals had migrated last year to other states in search of work. In fact, the state government itself admitted in the assembly that spending on wage component in many districts was much less than 50 per cent.
 
 As per the document prepared by panchayat raj department, an amount of Rs 5,715.42 crore was spent under NREGS during financial year 2016-17. However, the department could give only around Rs 2,914 crore in the form of wages to the workers, which accounts for a poor 54 per cent of the total spending. Many districts reported spending less than 50 per cent on wage component while a few districts utilised around 55 per cent for wages. As per the rules, the material cost in any work should not exceed 40 per cent.
 
 Sources said preference to construct  ,   and other structural works is the reason behind spending more on materials and machines than on labour. In another glaring violation, the field officials spent around 8 to 9 per cent on administrative costs. The government cap is 5 per cent. "Spending Rs 358 crore in the name of administrative cost is very huge," said a senior official of the finance department.
 
 PR commissioner   claimed that they have spent Rs 5,715 crore on wage against the actual target of Rs 5,345. "We have provided 20.83 crore man days of employment against the target of 16.53 crore man days. This comes to around 126 per cent, which is one of the highest in the country," Ramanjaneyulu told TOI.
 
