MUMBAI: For the first time in past five years, the average   cover provided by organisations has increased from Rs 3 lakh to Rs 3.5 lakh, and   during hospitalisation has increased to Rs 4,000 from Rs 3,000 per day. Also, another trend in health insurance is that employees are chipping in to buy a wider range of benefits from employer-funded group covers. 

 Until now, insurance companies have been periodically hiking health insurance rates due to high claims in group insurance policies. Many employers had been responding to the rate hikes by placing curbs on covering parents or other restrictions on the cover. But employers are now discovering that employees are willing to pay out of their pocket for a wider cover.
 
 “Organisations are embracing positive trends from developed countries, and are working to provide a competitive and effective health and benefit package to retain and hire the right talent,” said Sanjay Kedia, CEO, Marsh India, one of the world’s largest brokerage firms. The trends emerged in an annual survey by   on employee benefits. According to Kedia, employees are prepared to contribute to corporate group plans rather than buying their own because of wider coverage, cost efficiency and better claims experience.
 
 He added that employers are adopting a structured approach to address changing needs. “Their strategy is based on three pillars — maintaining costs, increasing benefits, and offering choice-based plans,” he added.
 
 The trend of growing dependence on employer cover even as companies pull back is clearly visible on parent coverage. According to Marsh, cost-sharing is crucial for sustainability of the parental cover. “Only 35% companies fully pay for parents’ insurance as against 41% in 2015 and 45% share premium cost as against 35% in 2015,” the survey said. Because of this cost sharing, the proportion of organisations that facilitate parents’ coverage has increased to 80% from 76% in the previous survey.
 
 Almost 90% of the respondent employees were found to be willing to share premium costs, and buy organisation-offered and -facilitated voluntary benefit plans. Of this, approximately 37% respondents are willing to part with 3-5% of their salary and 30% are willing to spend in excess of 6%.The survey showed that as compared to last five years, for the first time the median sum insured of medical insurance has increased from 3,00,000 to 3,50,000 along with an increase of Rs 1,000 in room rent eligibility limit.The findings of the survey are interesting, considering that insurance companies were expecting a shift from corporate to individual plans as they hiked their group rates.   had recently said that, following large claims in group insurance portfolio, it has decided to hike rates.
 
 
