Actor   has added another feather to his hat. The actor, who has been part of shows such as Bhagonwali-Baante Apni Taqdeer, Aap Ki Antara and film, Wajah Tum Ho, has turned an associate producer with his film In The Shadows. The film stars Manoj Bajpayee, Neeraj Kabi,   and  .
 
  Talking about the film, he says, “It's my childhood' friend, Dipesh Jain’s film. He is the writer and director of the film. In the Shadows is a psychological drama about a man, who is trapped within the city walls in his mind. He attempts to break free to find a human connection. Having worked in TV and films for more than a decade, it’s the best script I have read since a long time. The film engages and grips you till the last frame.”
  
  The film will have his world premiere at the 22nd BIFF (Busan inter
  national film festival). It has been selected in the top 10 films in the India Gold Category in Mumbai Academy of Moving Images this year. The film is being produced under Exstant Motion Pictures.
  
  Ask him what prompted him to turn producer, and he says, “Sometimes, you don't plan things in life, they just happen. Dipesh and I connected around 4 years back, he's been wanting to create this project since then. Since he's my childhood friend and we share a fabulous bond, I offered to give him a helping hand at which later on translated into me becoming an associate producer in our film.”
  
  Sitting on a producer’s chair is a very different feeling says Himmanshoo. “It's a different process in its entirety. As an actor, you only think about yourself but as a producer, you first think about everybody else. The film, the crew and then, in the end, it's you. Having said that it's an amazing process that teaches you so much every day and you get to meet people at a different level, compared to being an actor. I am totally enjoying this amazing process of creation,” he says.
  
  Talking about future plans to produce, he says, “It's just begun, hence there's a long way to go from here. Whatever I feel connected to, I am going to put my foot forward, create and produce it in future. I don’t want to set any boundaries right in the beginning.”
  
  Himmanshoo interacted with Shahana Goswami, who he is says is a great artist. “She's a fabulous actress and an extremely warm human being. I personally loved the way she portrayed her character in the film. She's a powerful performer,” he says.
  
  
 
  
 
