HYDERABAD: In a move to boost revenues, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is rolling out a mega plan of fixing   (RFID)  .

 It might be a costly affair, but the cash-strapped   says it was forced to propose RFID meters as it wants to plug thousands of gallons of water lost due to leakages. As per a pilot project, the Water Board has selected three sections, including Jubilee Hills in Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Division-VI, Red Hills in O&M Division-IV and Gachibowli in O&M Division-XV for the project.
 
 The Water Board earmarked the three sections as district metered areas (DMAs), which comes under a water distribution network for the detailed study. “We have asked general managers of the concerned O&M divisions to send proposals and estimates to purchase and fix the RFID meters,“ HMWS&SB di rector-revenue, D   told TOI.
 
 Once they receive the estimations from these three sections, they will float tenders to fix RFID meters. “We have plans to complete this tendering process as early as possible and carry out the study for about two months to identify where are the leakages.While supplying potable water to our customers, we noticed loss of revenue every month due to leakages. The Water Board does not have separate mechanism to plug leakages, except fixing meters,“ he said. Officials said the decades-old pipelines are one of the main reasons for water leakages. A series of road caved-ins were also reported re cently, damaging pipelines.
 
 Currently, the Water Board is supplying 378 million gallons of water per day (MGD) to denizens, but from this 165 MGD is lost. “We consider this quantity of water as non-revenue of water (NRW),“ said the Water Board official. The Water Board will fix the RFID on the lines of a similar project in Bangalore.“Through fixing of RFID meters, we can get a complete data like pressure in water supplies, water supply timings, consumer-wise water supply (depend on water connection sizes) and leakages, online.Based on the study, the Water Board will rectify the mistakes to improve services to customers,“ added D Sridhar Babu, director (revenue).
 
