PANAJI:   has thrown a lifeline to several discarded players and handpicked 10 new faces to travel with the India U-17 World Cup squad to Europe on an exhaustive preparatory tour.
 
  The Portuguese coach took charge of the squad preparing for the   later this year at home and was impressed with some players who had failed to catch the eye of former coach  .
  
  “When I joined I told the   I want to see as many players as possible. My idea of a good player may be different to what was (being thought) earlier and I am very surprised with what I saw. I must have seen about 40 players and am now more confident that we have good options,” Luis told TOI at the end of a training session at the Trinity ground in Benaulim on Thursday.
  
  Luis takes the team to Mumbai for a couple of days and thereafter to Europe next week where the boys are expected to train in Portugal – till May 15 – before moving to France, Spain and later Italy.
  
  Those definitely travelling to Portugal include Rahul KB, Rishi Das and Mohammad Rahim Ali, all of whom were part of the India U-17 squad at the start but were relegated to the reserve team by Nicolai.
  
  Ozone FC defender Gurmeet Singh will also make the cut if he nudges ahead of Jeetu and Sharif, while four new Minerva Punjab FC players – Anwar Ali, Mohammad Shahjahan, Amarjit Mishra and Jackson Singh – are part of the 26-member squad, thanks to their impressive solitary-goal victory over the World Cup squad last month.
  
  “I am very clear with my ideas about training in football. If we win all games, it’s good but I don’t want to sacrifice my objectives. I was surprised with the quality of Minerva players but I didn’t want to play with players who were guaranteed of being with us,” explained the Portuguese coach.
  
  After the friendly loss against Minerva, Luis asked at least three players to leave the camp because they had no future with the World Cup squad, and gave the go ahead for the inclusion of four Minerva players for the preparatory tour to Europe.
  
  “I have seen a big difference in the team for the last five weeks (since taking charge). For me, it was important to know the players as quickly as possible and provide solutions. Luckily, we have found new players and now the second rung is very strong. We have two good players for each position, plus another two who can play in multiple positions and still be as good,” said the Portuguese coach.
