LUCKNOW: Drastic decline in number of palm trees in the city has led to a crisis for those busy with   celebrations for there were no palm leaves for the ritual decoration of   on the occasion of  . 

 The bigger churches managed to get palm leaves from the outskirts, while the smaller ones had to ask volunteers to source the essential item of decoration. Palm Sunday marks the day Jesus Christ came to Jerusalem as the Saviour of mankind and his followers welcomed him on the occasion with Palm leaves. Such is the scarcity is that palm leaves now have to be brought in from either Mohanlalganj, Bakshi ka Talab or Jail road.
 
 “Earlier, the church was decorated artistically with palm leaves, but with the decline in availability since past couple of years, we now use only a handful of branches to place around the altar. Some churches in the city have started using the raw, yellow palm with non-availability of the green ones,” said Rev Herbert Able, Central Methodist Church. 
 
 “Till about four years back, there were adequate number of palm trees in the city but now, while the old trees dried up, new were not planted,” he said, adding that at the Central Methodist Church the decoration is restricted as palm leaves are not widely available. 
 
 At Cathedral Church, a member of the decoration team, Raju said, “We brought the leaves from Mohanlalganj this year.”
 
  has started using ordinary plants and flowers for decoration instead of palm leaves for the past few years. “We follow all rituals but do not use palm leaves for decoration because of shortage, unless gets them,” said Luke, in charge of gardening at the church.
 
 The Nishatganj cemetery had more than 10 palm trees now reduced to one. “Nobody plants palm trees and this has created a shortage of palm leaves so important on this day,” said Anita Pandey, resident of Indira Nagar, who had come to visit the grave of her husband. 
 
 Retired teacher   (65) said, “A few years back one could easily get palm leaves from outside the church, but these days only florists keeps Chinese palm leaves, which are of no use.”
 
