AHMEDABADd: Around 50 delegates from 32 African countries met at   ( ) on Saturday and discussed the importance of forensic science in crime detection and prevention in the global context.

 The delegates discussed crimes such as cross-border and global terrorism; wildlife-related crimes; pirates and sea-related felonies and economic activities; frauds; uniformity of investigation across the continent and the ‘new age’ crimes including cyber and mobile phone-based illegalities.
 
 Organizers said that more than 15 countries had given letters of intent (LoI) to take the association further after completion of the two-day ‘Forensic Science Awareness Meet for African Countries-2017’ held in Gandhinagar.“The delegations were led by ambassadors or high commissioners,” said a GFSU official. “Proceedings of the meeting will be discussed with government officials after which individual delegations led by police or administrative officers will come to sign MoUs.”
 
  The official further said that a number of African nations faced similar problems as the digital world has made several crimes such as online frauds and those committed using ‘borderless’ technology where the accused and victim might be in different countries with the proceeds from the crime may go to a third country.
 
 Some areas that were of interest to all participants included new methods of crime scene probe and scientific questioning; cyber crime investigation and prevention; and training of police, specialized probe agencies and the judiciary.
 
 On Saturday, Alem  , ambassador of the Republic of Eritrea and dean of African Missions in India, delivered the inaugural address of the forensic science awareness meet. He mentioned that forensic science has become a standard tool for prevention of crime and better criminal justice delivery system. He asked the participants to make the best of GFSU’s facilities. ACS (home) MS Dagur was the chief guest at the event. He laid stress on training of judicial and police officers along with public prosecutors in forensic investigating methods, for better results.
 
 Dr  , director general of GFSU, gave a speech on various branches of forensic science and their application,.
 
