Vellore: A differently abled student, who was reportedly denied admission to Class X citing his disability, has sought the help of the district administration to continue his education.

 The boy, Jayaprakash, 75% disabled due to muscular dystrophy, was carried by his father Chinnappan, a farmer from Eripudur village, to the Collectorate to submit a petition to draw the attention of officials. The boy studied from Class VI to VIII in a residential school in Vallalar in   City and joined Class IX in a day-care centre under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan scheme in the Block Development Office in Anaicut.
 
 Caretakers in the centre reportedly told the boy to continue his studies in a regular school. Hence, he approached the Government Higher Secondary School in the vicinity to join Class X. However, the head master of the school allegedly denied admission citing his disability. “The HM of the school told me that the classroom for standard X was on the first floor of the school building,” Jayaprakash told TOI.
 
 Jayaprakash added that the HM reportedly told him if he slipped and fell from the stairs and hurt himself, the school management would be in trouble. “I am not attending classes since the school reopened on June 7,” he said.
 
 Chinappan said he met the HM on several occasions to help his son to continue his studies, but the HM was avoided him. “Even today, I went to the school to meet the HM. Since there was response from the HM, I decided to approach the collector,” he said.
 
 “The school is located about 3km from our village. I am take my son to school daily and pick him up from the school. I want him to study and he is also willing to study, but the teachers are not showing interest to help us,” he added.
 
 Chief education officer (CEO) S Mars said he has instructed the HM of the school take necessary steps to facilitate Jayaprakash continue his studies. “He will be admitted in the school. I have also told the HM to all possible measures to help the boy to continue the studies,” said the CEO.
 
 When asked the reason for not admitting the boy in the school, the CEO said the boy was not good at academics. Hence, the HM might have thought that admitting the boy would affect the pass percentage of the school in the board examination.
 
 
