I was not spotted in a coffee shop by any director and offered an opportunity to act in films. Neither was my debut film a blockbuster nor did I land in big-hero films and started getting huge sums. My film career hasn’t been a fairy tale at all,” starts  , while talking about her journey as an actress so far. Unlike other actresses, who say that they ‘accidentally’ got into films or it wasn’t really their cup of tea earlier,   says that she has always been determined about acting, despite all odds. In a chat with us, Aishwarya, who is is currently the lead heroine in Vetri Maaran’s   and Gautham Menon’s  , tells us about her struggles, upcoming films,   venture, her relationship status and more.

 
 
 The first salary that I earned as a teenager was `225, when I worked at a super market as a part-time employee. My job was to help customers try out new products that were launched in the market then. I also used to distribute pamphlets of new products at Tidel Park, for which I was paid `400. Later, I started hosting small birthday parties and anchoring corporate and dance shows. And I started earning close to `4,000 per month. I like multi-tasking. And I managed to do all these things even while I was in school, to support my family. But the desire to earn more, say, something like `25,000 per month, kept haunting me. So, when someone told me that serial artistes were paid well, I wanted to try it out. But when I got an opportunity, finally, I was paid only `1,000-`2,000, whereas a few other artistes were given up to `20,000. Later, I realised that only film actresses, who turned into serial artistes, were paid huge sums. That’s when I seriously started thinking about becoming a film actress. I felt that I should become a film actress first, and then come back to serials and earn good remuneration from it. 
 
 
 
 I used to visit one production house every day and I used to take up auditions even for small roles. Before my debut, I must have auditioned at almost every single production house. The funniest part was that, after every audition, the production house people would tell me, ‘You are the heroine’. Overwhelmed by their words, I would come home and tell my mom that, I’m going to be the heroine of some four or five films. But during the film’s puja, someone else would be announced as the heroine. This had been my luck for a very long time. I was being offered only kutty roles. I was even offered roles opposite comedians in some films. One of the weirdest experiences was when I was asked to come to the filmmaker’s office at 6am to attend the acting workshop; the other actors would come only by around 10am! One day, I was sent back home because I had forgotten to bring a notebook and pen for the workshop. When the same kind of treatment continued for a couple of days, I politely opted out of the film. I can recall many such treatments during my audition phase. Finally, I passed in one audition and that’s how I got my debut film, Avargalum Ivargalum, offer. Then, I managed to get a small role in Attakathi, and from there, my film career began step-by-step.
 
 
 
 After acting in a critically acclaimed film like  , I didn’t get any offers for more than a year. That one year, without any job, was the toughest time of all my trials so far. I thought the time of struggle was over after Kaaka Muttai, but actually it was not. It continued... I decided to be patient and strong. Once again, I started waiting for good roles to come my way. Then, my period of waiting was over, and I again started getting challenging characters.
 
 
 
 I play a local girl in Vada Chennai and I have to speak the local slang in the film. While working on Gautham Menon’s film, initially, I found it a bit difficult to understand his style of dialogue delivery. But later, in a few days’ time, I picked it up. Like all   heroines, I hope to look beautiful in this film. I may have got into the big league of actresses, but I’m yet to earn money like a lead actress.
 
 
 
 Vaangitaalum (laughs). I don’t even own a house and I’m still staying in a rented house. I drive a simple i10 car. While some offer good salary for a mokkai film, a small production house that gives me a good role may not be ready to offer a big salary. So, most of the times, I compromise on salary for the sake of the role. I think I might get my dream salary only when the combination of solid roles and high remuneration comes my way (laughs).
 
 
 
 My confidence level doubled only after signing this Bollywood film, Daddy, with  . I play a gangster in this film. I got this rare opportunity amidst much competition, thanks to Kaaka Muttai. The film is currently doing the rounds at film festivals. It will hit screens here soon.
 
 
 
 Right now, I would like to focus only on films as my career has just started. Also, I cannot give my 100 per cent to films if I’m in a relationship. Because, once you are in a relationship, you will be under pressure to pick only certain kinds of roles. Also, you should give enough time to nurture the relationship. It is after considering all these factors that I have chosen to be single for now.
 
 
 
 (Laughs) May be 10 years later, I will be a serial heroine.
 
 
