CHENNAI: They don’t lurk in the dark looking for a lock to pick or a wall to scale. Police are confronting a new breed of   burglars who tap and swipe their way into homes using smart phones. The giveaway: the victims’ status messages and photos on social networking sites.

 Posts by netizens may be revealing more than they intend to – their travel plans, exact locations that are geo-tagged and the timeline -- details that would suffice for a burglar, who may be in the list of friends and followers, with or without the person’s knowledge. At a seminar held in the city recently, senior officials in the police department held discussions with cyber experts to tackle these cases. A police officer recalled a   in the city that was traced to a serial thief, who had just finished his term in prison. “He had befriended the victim, a 55-year-old businessman on Facebook, claiming to be an old friend of his. He then kept a tab on everything he did – from the new watch he bought, to his address, and who he stayed with,” said the officer, who did not wish to be named. The thief finally struck when the entire family was away on a week-long vacation. In another case, a teenager’s   posts and photos led a burglar into their home when they were away for two days. “The burglar was on the boy’s father’s friend list although he was complete stranger to the family,” said another officer. 
 
 Befriending strangers and updating ‘check-ins’ frequently are not just a fad among the young. “We are more worried about children and the middle-aged who may not be aware of the privacy settings in these sites,” said S Balu former additional superintendent of police, cybercrime. Balu is now part of a forum, Cyber Society of India, which holds workshops for officials and the public on cyber security. When people ‘check-in’ at a restaurant, a potential stalker would know they are out for a couple of hours; pictures of a holiday, a couple of days. “Even casual mention of your work schedule or an event you are planning can give away important clues about your routine,” he said, adding that officials he interacts with have been citing a rise in cases where the source of information has been traced to posts on   – a trend that has been fast gaining popularity among burglars in the west. 
 
 It isn’t just an unknown face in the list of friends or followers who could be a potential thief. “Even if your friend’s privacy setting is poor, people may be able to access your post or photos,” said S Ravichadran, cybercrime investigator and member of data security council of India. He said mobile stores were often a mine of personal information as people forget to format it before giving their handsets. He cited three recent cases in Coimbatore where the culprits revealed they were able to stalk their victims on social networking sites using information they gathered from their handsets in mobile stores. 
 
