JAIPUR: On the eve of Holi, food inspectors conducted inspections at sweet shops in the city Friday and collected samples of sweets made of mawa.

 Inspections were conducted at sweets shops in Vasundhara Colony, Tonk Road, Bajaj Nagar and Gandhi Nagar. A health department official said they have collected samples of sweets made of mawa. “We have been conducting inspections for last five days to ensure that sweets being sold in the market should not be adulterated, which may cause various stomach related illnesses,” the official said.
 
 The samples were sent to laboratories for quality check. Health department is focusing mainly on Jaipur as four teams of food inspectors are collecting at least 20 samples of sweets daily.
 
 Holi fervour is already in the city. Makeshift shops have cropped up in   market selling myriad colours. However, health authorities have warned against the use of any chemical colours.
 
 “Toxicity of colours may affect eyes badly. So, take proper precautions to prevent colours from entering eyes. Corneas are quite sensitive to the toxicity of colour. In case, if colour enters eyes, immediately wash eyes with water. Don’t waste time in finding clean water. Wash eyes immediately with whatever water is available just to ensure that impact of colour on eyes should be minimal,” Dr  , former ophthalmologist of SMS Hospital, said. 
 
 Post Holi, city hospitals get patients with redness in eyes and other skin problems. “People should take precautions in buying colours. Colours containing chemicals may harm both eyes and skin. In government hospitals, people come with complains of itching. It is because skin is sensitive and chemical colours affect it badly. Safe colours are also available in the market and people should use them to avoid any health related complications,” chief medical health officer (Jaipur) Dr   said.
 
 Dos and don’ts: 
 
 — Wear spectacles and sunglasses while playing with colours
 
 — Wash eyes immediately if colours enter eyes
 
 — Visit to an ophthalmologist if needed
 
 — Apply oil or moisturiser on skin on the hands, face and other exposed parts of the body to keep skin safe from colours
 
 — Wear hat or cap while playing Holi
 
