BIJNOR: Taking a cue from a recently-aired episode of ‘Mann ki Baat’, in which   mentioned a district in Andhra Pradesh that constructed 10,000 toilets in a week,   has taken up the task of doubling the figure in the same amount of time. According to district officials, a one lakh-strong workforce has set out to construct 20,000 toilets in the Najibabad and Noorpur blocks of the district within this week.
 
  “We have decided to construct 20k toilets within a week. It is special programme which has been inaugurated from Monday. The construction work of the toilets has started. Around one lakh people including workers and officials are engaged to attain the target. The work will be done from 4:30am to 9pm. Around 6k trained masons are constructing the toilets. All officials have been deployed to supervise the work,” said district magistrate Jagat Raj, addressing a press conference here.
  
  “Several supply committees have also been formed to arrange for the raw material to build the toilets. We have also formed some committees to test the quality of the material and ensure transparency in executing the project. The toilets will be constructed in 155 village panchayats of Najibabad and Noorpur blocks of the district. For poor villagers who do not have money to construct a toilet on their own, Rs 12,000 each is being provided under the scheme.”
  
  Chief development officer Indramani Tripathi said, “PM Modi had mentioned Vijaynagar district of Andhra Pradesh in his ‘Mann ki Baat’ for constructing 10,000 toilets within 100 hours. Taking a cue from this, we have also assigned a target of 20,000 toilets within a week. We hope we will achieve the target within the specified time.”
  
  “All village heads, panchayat secretaries, masons, supply committees, officials and other workers and social workers have set out to fulfil the target. If we managed to attain the target, our district will make a new record. The entire project is to be completed in a transparent manner,” Tripathi added.
  
  On Monday, the DM, CDO and other officials visited some villages including Feena and Paijaniya to see the work and inspire the residents and the government workforce.
