RANCHI: Having suffered a debacle along with its partner in Uttar Pradesh, the  , the   has decided to play it safe in the   The party's state committee on Wednesday said it would support JMM candidate   and is considering a   in the run-up to the April 9 election. 

 Trying to put aside its differences with the JMM during the Lohardaga by-election in 2016, the state Congress leadership is seeking permission from the high command in New Delhi for joint campaigns to help their one-time ally retain its seat. 
 
 Although an official announcement is still pending, state Congress president Sukhdeo Bhagat and veteran legislator Alamgir Alam will appear with Marandi in his rallies after working out modalities with the JMM working president and former chief minister Hemant Soren. 
 
 "The Raghubar Das government in Jharkhand has taken anti-people decisions in recent months by amending the land laws and different oppressive measures to usurp land. Our fight is against the BJP and the objective is to stop them from getting stronger in the assembly," Bhagat said.
 
 Taking its lessons from the assembly election of 2014, the Congress has decided to throw its weight behind the JMM. The Congress candidate, Shivshankar Malto, was defeated by the JMM candidate, Anil Kumar Murmu, for the Littipara seat by a margin of 45,000 votes. "It is a JMM seat and we are also looking at a future alliance in Jharkhand after the defeat in Uttar Pradesh," a senior functionary of the State Pradesh Congress Committee said. 
 
 While all opposition parties united against the BJP after the Das government amended the Chotanagpur and Santhal Parganas Tenancy Acts last November, the Babulal Marandi led JVM-P fielded its own candidate for the seat after Kishto Soren filed nomination papers on Tuesday. 
 
 According to JVM-P sources, Marandi backtracked from a united front after the JMM did not field any of the wives of Murmu and gave its symbol to Marandi, who had filed papers as an Independent candidate. "Babulal was in talks with Hemant for fielding one of Murmu's wives," a senior JVM-P leader said. 
 
 The state unit of the Rashtriya Janata Dal on Wednesday also offered its support to JMM candidate Marandi.
 
 
