HYDERABAD: Bharat Interface for Money (BHIM) app for Aadhaar-enabled payments released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday can be an immediate success in both Telugu states and capital Hyderabad. Latest figures released by Unique Identification Authority (UIDIA) in December shows both states have touched saturation in enrolments.

 The   developed by National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) for cashless transactions requires citizens to have Aadhaar-linked bank accounts. UIDIA undertook a drive between October 15 and November 15 this year across India to check Aadhaar status. Figures released after the drive show Hyderabad alone had more than 66 lakh Aadhaar enrolments. In both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, enrolments in the above-18 age-group are 102% and 97% respectively.
 
 "Both states and Hyderabad will be able to quickly adopt cashless payment on BHIM app because of a high percentage of Aadhaar-linked bank accounts. When UIDIA began enrolments in 2011, undivided AP was already ahead," said MVS Rami Reddy, deputy director general of UIDAI.
 
 Till date, 10 crore bank account have been mapped with Aadhaar numbers. Telugu states are ahead as their mapping was almost complete during the launch of Direct Benefit Transfer of LPG scheme. Hyderabad tops with 85% Aadhaar numbers linked with bank accounts and nearly 80% in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Besides, 333 banks are live on this platform which makes both states app-ready.
 
 Citizens can check status of Aadhaar-Bank account linkage by dialling *99*99# on their mobile phone. This facility is provided by NPCI at a cost of Rs.1.50 per enquiry.
 
 Officials said, the app is tested for security reasons. It will be regulated under UIDIA (Transaction of Business and Meetings) regulations, 2016, Aadhaar (Enrolment and Update) Regulations, 2016 Aadhaar (Authentication) Regulations, 2016, Aadhaar (Data Security) Regulations, 2016, Aadhaar (Sharing of Information) Regulations, 2016.
 
 Recently,   declared UIDAI as best agency for "security in e-governance".
 
