 that’s currently underway in the US, will soon get a little taste of Noida. City-based filmmaker Vinod Kapri’s film   – which has been shot entirely in the city – has been selected in the World Cinema category of the prestigious film festival. "It’s a great honour. Palm Springs is a very prestigious festival, and there’s only one other Indian film that has been selected for it. It’s a matter of great pride, and I’m confident that the film will be received well there," says an overjoyed Kapri. The Palm Springs International Film Festival, which has been held in California since 1989, is known for its focus on world cinema. Pihu will be screened in the competitive section of the World Cinema category on January 9 and 13.

 'Pihu' is a social thriller that tells the story of a two-year-old girl whose life turns around when she finds herself alone in her apartment one day. While the film isn’t set in any particular city, it has been completely shot in Noida, and also stars a local in the lead role. The film’s star is three-year-old  . Myra, whose parents are journalists based in Noida, faced the camera for the first time ever for this film.
 
 
 
 
  
   , director of 'Pihu', with Noida's tiniest star on the block, Myra Vishwakarma
 
 
 Elaborating on the challenges of shooting with a toddler, Kapri says, "When we began, it seemed like filming would be next to impossible because we couldn’t get the child to do exactly what we wanted in one take. But over time, with support from Myra’s parents and a highly professional team, the film did get completed. All credit goes to the team, and of course, the little angel who is our star." This is Kapri’s second feature film after the 2014 release, 'Miss Tanakpur Haazir Ho'. He has also won a National Award for his documentary Can’t Take This Sh*t Anymore.
 
 'Pihu' – set indoors – was shot in a flat in a residential colony in Greater Noida in 2015. Talking about the film, Kapri says, "Without divulging too much about the film’s plot, I can say that it revolves around a two-year-old girl and her experience of being alone. As far as I’m aware, it is the first such movie in the world, wherein a two-year-old is not just the star, but the only character of the film. We are hoping that apart from festivals, the film is received well by audiences when it releases." Kapri will soon be travelling to the US for the film’s screening at Palm Springs. However, he will not be accompanied by the film’s lead actress. "Our star is a little too young to be travelling to festivals for now," he quips.
 
 
