BENGALURU: The 67th Senior   will get under way in Puducherry on Saturday without representation from   and  , the defending men’s and women’s champions.

  ( ), which has the recognition of international body   to run the sport in the country, said both the teams have refused to pay their annual affiliation fees, which has resulted in their ouster.
 
 As a result, both the Services Sports Control Board (SSCB) and Railways Sports Promotion Board (RSPB) have decided not to release any of their players to their state units for the tournament.
 
 “Railways and Services have refused to pay their affiliation fees, which is just Rs 5,000 for a year,” BFI secretary general Chander Mukhi Sharma told TOI on Wednesday. “Railways, in fact, haven't paid for two years. Last year, when they came for the Senior Nationals in Mysuru, they said they forgot to bring the money. They went on to win the women's title and we paid them Rs 75,000 as prize money in cash. Still, they refused to pay. And now when we contacted them for their participation, they said they cannot pay the fee.”
 
 Sharma further said the BFI was even willing to let them compete if they give in writing that they will pay later. “However, both units are reluctant to do so. How long must we wait? We have to make arrangements — lodging and food, fixtures — and if both teams pull out in the last minute, we will have to bear the loss,’ he explained.
 
  
  
 
 The BFI, in August last year, had also banned 95 players, 17 coaches and 10 technical staff members for their association with the UBA Pro Basketball League. Some of the top Indian players among those banned include Services duo Joginder Singh and Narender Grewal, Akashdeep Hazra (Railways) and Gurvinder Singh Gill (Punjab) in a list that features 16 cagers each from Delhi and Services, 15 from Railways and 10 from Punjab.
 
 “The ban continues to stay,” Sharma said. “We had informed every state, player and coaches well in advance against playing in the UBA League, which had not been recognized by us.”
 
 ‘WHO SHOULD WE PAY?’
 
 The Indian Olympic Association (IOA) and the Union Sports Ministry support the rival faction led by Poonam Mahajan and are yet to recognize the K Govindraj-led BFI. “The BFI said since we haven't paid the affiliation fee, they have not given us the invitation. But which federation should we pay? The one affiliated to FIBA or the one associated with the IOA?” Services coach Jora Singh said.
 
 Singh and a handful of his championship-winning Services players are among those banned by the BFI for playing in the UBA League. “Yes, they warned us through a circular, but apart from saying that we should not compete in any 'unrecognized championship/competition of the BFI' there was no mention of UBA or any list of tournaments that we shouldn't play in,” he said. “Also, every ban has a time-frame — six months, one year, life ban etc. We have no information when our bans will get over,” Singh added.
 
 ‘CHANCES BLEAK’
 
 While sources said that the BFI could consider including Services if they paid their fees immediately, Singh said the chances were bleak. “Our SSCB joint secretary, Wing Commander Deepak Ahluwalia, has been in touch with the BFI and is set to have a final discussion with Services’ higher authorities. But the chances of us competing look bleak,” he added.
 
 
