Vadodara: In their desperation to clear exams by hook or by crook, at least 100 engineering students of Gujarat Technological University (GTU) have fallen prey to fraudsters.

 The Vadodara local crime branch (LCB) arrested two persons from Ankleshwar who conned large number of GTU students across the state by promising to help them pass exams in lieu of money. 
 
 The arrested duo Vipul Parmar and Jaimin Prajapati were arrested after Rinkesh Patel, an engineering student of Babaria Institute of Technology, registered an FIR at Varnama police station on Wednesday. Patel was contacted by a woman on a social media website and told that if he should contact one Mahesh Rathod of GTU on WhatsApp if he wanted to pass in the exam.
 
 After Patel contacted Rathod on WhatsApp, Patel was asked to pay Rs 6,000 for two subjects through a mobile wallet application and check his results when they are declared. But, when the result was declared, Patel had failed to clear both subjects. When he tried to contact Rathod, the number was not available after which they contacted the cops.
 
 The LCB sleuths tracked down the duo, on the basis of the trail of their mobile wallet application numbers. During interrogation, the duo admitted that they had made a fake account of a woman on the social media website and contacted students.
 
 Police investigations also revealed that there was nobody named Rathod and it was the accused duo who used to chat on WhatsApp as well. A police official said that from one mobile wallet number they used to transfer the money to another and then to their bank account.
 
 “Going by their transactions, it looks that they have conned more than 100 students across the state,” said J J Patel, police inspector, LCB.
 
 When asked if the money given by students can be considered as bribe, Patel said, “Technically we can say that since GTU is a government university, but often people get lured in loan and investment schemes and lose money. Similarly, these students were lured and have lost their money.” He added that their transaction details revealed that in past two months they have taken Rs 2.5 lakh from students across the state.
 
 
