BENGALURU: An undergraduate student of Maharani’s Arts, Commerce and Management College for Women has been allegedly molested by her Kannada lecturer more than once. When the issue came to light, the teacher was transferred to another college at Jevargi in Kalaburagi district. 

 Students allege that Ramalingappa, who has been working with the 79-year-old institution for the past five years, had attempted molestation in the past too, and that when the matter was taken up with the management, the initial response was to sweep it under the carpet.
 
 Sources said during the ‘Nudi Habba’ fest, the lecturer allegedly asked the student to take a bag to the staff room, followed her there and touched her inappropriately. The matter was then taken to the department of collegiate education, and commissioner Ajay Nagabhushan ordered the transfer of Ramalingappa. His order dated March 16, 2017, is with TOI. 
 
 “There has been a case and we’ve transferred the person. It’s not true that we did not want to take any action or hush up the issue,” Maharani College principal R Shanthakumari told TOI. 
 
 On why the punishment has been limited to a transfer, she said: “We are investigating the matter; the complaint came earlier this week and we need to look into that.”
 
 In March last year, the expert committee to  , had found merit in complaints against another lecturer from the college, who was also transferred. Committee chairperson V S Ugrappa said: “He was a commerce lecturer. Based on complaints from girl students, a decision was taken to transfer him.”
 
 Cases in Tumakuru & Mysuru
 
 Ugrappa said that the committee had found another case involving an English lecturer in a government college under  . “He was accused of coercing students to come to the library and touching them inappropriately. He has been suspended,” he said.
 
 In another case, a women from the University of Mysore had complained that she was discharged of duty for not cooperating with a faculty member. “We found merit in her case and recommended that the university reinstate her,” Ugrappa added.
 
 No police complaints
 
 “While the powers of the committee are limited to making recommendations, there must be a police case that follows such findings. We cannot just end the matter with departmental action,” Ugrappa said.
 
 Echoing the same, experts said: “Police must be involved so that such cases do not recur. How is it fair to put a man, who has a history of misbehaving with girls, in another college?”
 
