HYDERABAD: The   may be competing with the likes of Gujarat and Maharashtra in attracting investments, but its ambition may be derailed due to the fact that 84% of districts have lower literacy levels than the state   of 66.5. After the  , of the 31 districts, 26 have literacy levels that are less than the state average. Even among the  , 34% of them are  . 

 These revelations form part of the Socio Economic Outlook-2017 of Telangana released by the state government recently.
 
 According to the report, Hyderabad has the highest number of literates with 83.25 %, while Jogulamba district, that was carved out from erstwhile Mahbubnagar district, has the lowest literacy at 49.87%. Only five districts -- Hyderabad, Medchal, Warangal, Ranga Reddy and Karimnagar -- have literacy rates higher than the state average. Interestingly, Medchal and Ranga Reddy are part of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Region (HMR).
 
 Officials said the state average of 66.5% is less than the national average of 72.9% placing Telangana at 32 among all 37 states and Union territories in the country. Only states such as Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Manipur and Bihar are lagging behind Telangana.
 
 The literacy rate among the Scheduled Castes and Tribes is lower than the state average at 58.9% and 49.5% respectively. Interestingly, 17% of STs and 16% of Muslim minority children never attended school. 
 
 "Children in rural areas do not go to school or parents do not send their children to schools either because of lack of schools in their villages or due to poverty. Poverty-stricken parents would rather send children to work than school," M Chakradhar, who runs an NGO in Cheriyal mandal in Janagaon district said.
 
 "To improve literacy rate, the government has been emphasising on setting up of new schools. As of now, 299 schools are being run under social welfare department and 487 more have been sanctioned this year. New schools are being set up where SC, ST population is more," deputy chief minister Kadiyam Srihari said.
 
 Education department officials said the drop-out rate has come down in the current academic year (34.70%) compared to 2014-15 academic year (37.56%) among the secondary school students which is a sign of improvement in literacy rates.
 
 The Socio Economic Outlook report also said that of the state's 2.39 crore working population, about 34% are illiterate. Even among the literate, seven per cent are educated up to primary school level, 29% have completed secondary school level and 10% studied up to Intermediate. Another 20% have earned either a bachelors degree or a post-graduate degree.
 
 
