NAGPUR: Six persons filed nomination papers on Thursday for the post of co-opted member of   ( ). But there was high drama as two from the   filed papers even the party has quota of only one seat.

 More intriguing was the official decision to put on hold the issue of recognizing the rebel Congress group led by Tanaji Vanvem which has already proven its majority.
 
  members went through smoothly with the nominations. Four nominees — Sunil Agarwal, Kishor Wankhede, Munna Pokulwar and Nishant Gandhi — submitted nomination papers to municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal in the presence of additional commissioner Ramnath Sonawane and civic secretary Harish Dube. BJP nominees were accompanied by MLAs Sudhakar Deshmukh, MLCs Girish Vyas and Parinay Fuke, standing committee chairman, deputy mayor Deepraj Pardikar and ruling party group leader Sandeep Joshi.
 
 The infighting in the Congress came to the fore again with city president and former mayor Vikas Thakre filing nomination papers staking claim over the lone co-option seat. Thakre’s papers were approved by leader of opposition in the house Sanjay Mahakalkar. But at the same time, the municipal commissioner also received nomination from Kishor Jichkar, whose papers were endorsed by Vanve.
 
 There was clear indication that the infighting would soon end up in the court as one of the candidates would challenge nomination of the other.
 
 The Vanve-led group was aghast that they have not received due recognition from the divisional commissioner and mayor/ municipal commissioner despite the fact that its majority was established without any doubt on Wednesday. They said 16 of the 17 persons, who signed the letter seeking change of the group leader, were paraded before the officials.
 
 Rebel group members, who did not want to be identified, alleged that the decision was put on hold because of political pressure mounted by the Thakre faction. With Vanve failing to get the required nod, Mahakalkar continued in the post of Congress civic party group leader and hence, had power to nominate Thakre as per the ‘pre-planned script’.
 
 Divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar told TOI that the procedure of establishing majority of the rebel group was not yet completed as the matter of the 17th member of the Vanve group, Ramesh Punekar, abstaining from the physical parade was being investigated.
 
 “The Mahakalar faction had complained that Punekar’s signature was a forged since he had left the rebel-requisitioned meeting halfway,” said a Congress source. Kumar maintained that his action of keeping the decision on hold had full legal backing.
 
 Meanwhile, the Vanve group alleged that the delay was a direct consequence of the pressure from BJP quarters, which wants to ‘help’ Thakre to ‘return the favour’ of helping the party in past several elections in the city.
 
 
