SATARA:   and  , both of same age and educational qualification, but from different villages of the drought-prone areas of Satara district are scripting an inspiring stories through their successful ventures.

 They are among the 550   from the region who have made it a mission to beat drought conditions and make their small enterprises work wonders. Their life stories caught the attention of Cherie Blair, wife of former prime minster of UK Tony Blair. 
 
 35-year-old Dhanashree from Dudhebavi village, which falls in the rainshadow region of the Satara district, has known what it means to live through successive droughts. Educated till standard X, she is originally from the drought-prone Marathwada region. 
 
 Two years ago, she lost her left hand in an accident while working with a chutney-making machine. The loss, however, didn’t come in her way of becoming one of the best entrepreneurs of the Mann Deshi Foundation. Blair’s ‘Cherie Blair Foundation for Women’ has tied up with the foundation. 
 
 A multitasking woman, Dhanashree now runs the dairy business, a grocery shop and a saree shop. “We have water for drinking only for four months in a year and that too during monsoon. Other days, we have to buy the water,” she says. 
 
 Her family’s three-acre land has turned barren since last few years. “Considering the situation, I decided to do start a business and started with two cows. The self-help groups helped me to get two more cows. I started selling milk and earned enought to own ten cows in all,” she says. 
 
 The income from the dairy business is enough to fun her sons’ engineering education and daughter’s graduation. Her work has inspired many from her village and sarcastically, the locals say the village village has more milk and less water. 
 
 After listening to Dhanashree’s story, Cherie said “Amazing”. Dhanashree replied in Marathi “What it means?” Blair laughed and hugged her. 
 
 Preeti from Nimbhor, a tiny village with 2,400 residents, has inspired 25 women from her locality to take up small businesses such as broom making and spices from locally-available ingredients. 
 
 Last week, she participated in the exhibition in Mumbai and in four days, sold spices and chutneys worth of Rs 1.5 lakh. She used the money earned to build a pucca house. Her family has been living in a shanty for so many years. 
 
 Her proud husband, Anand, says, “She runs my family now. Women should get support in their career. More women should come forward to change the picture.”
 
 Blair distributed cycles to the young girls from the rural areas to continue their schooling. “I am amazed listening to such stories from these areas. These women are taking up so many efforts for their families. It’s commendable and we will continue to help them achieve their dreams,” said Blair. 
 
 Mann Deshi Foundation works in rural hinterland of Maharashtra’s southern districts for making women self-reliant by providing credit and training. It was founded in 1996 in Mhaswad in Satara district by Chetna Gala Sinha. The bank run by the foundation is the first cooperative bank set by and for rural women. 
 
