KOLKATA: All things that you associated with a rock show might just have become a thing of the past in Bengal.

 Couples swaying together to the beat in the dark,   of  , cheering, dancing and singing as the strobe lights throb. The trend now is to have bamboo barricades  , couples parting to head to their respective enclosures and lights shining on the audience all through the show.
 
 DJ David Guetta's Bengaluru concert may have been cancelled on safety concerns following the molestation nightmare in the tech city on December 31, but measures being adopted to ensure security for women at Bengal's rock shows has become a bigger talking point here.
 
 Amit Chowdhury , artiste manager of E365 Media Solutions, admitted that security concerns have prompted many to segregate the crowd on the basis of gender. “There are bound to be some unruly elements in a 10,000-strong crowd.They often don't listen. Since no one wants to take a risk regarding the security of women, many organizers now insist on this. Not just rock shows, even a `para' programme at Deshbandu Park with reality-show winners had such a seating arrangement,“ Chowdhury said. Rock concert regulars say separate arrangements women during jatra and kirtans in the districts might not raise eyebrows, but to implement it for rock shows seems like a step backwards. On January 8, when folk-rock artiste Timir Biswas went to do a live show at Nicco Park, he was surprised to find a separate zone in front exclusively for women. A day later, Timir attended a Fossils show in New Barrackpore, which also had a similar seating arrangement.
 
 Rupsha Dasgupta, manager of Fossils, pointed out that such segregation goes against the way rock shows are held world over. “ At the New Barrackpore Pushpa Mela, there were barricades to divide male and female audience. We found the same thing at our recent shows at the Kalna Porjoton Utsav and   at Kalyani. If this was happening 50 years ago, one could still understand. But to have bamboo dividers at rock shows look weird. However, if this is the only way to deal with security of women, so be it,“ she said. To fit into the changed scenario, Fossils' frontman, Rupam, has now introduced a mock-fight between girls and boys on who can sing louder. “On stage, I also use humour to register my protest when I see this gender divider. I don't support this sexist arrangement,“ Rupam said. To avoid any untoward incident, the lights are no longer limited to the stage. Even the auditorium or the open ground has all lights switched on.
 
 Tushar Debnath, frontman of the rock band Blood, has also noticed the same during a college fest at Nazrul Manch recently . “In the districts, almost all rock shows now follow this pattern. On December 28, we did a show at Mankar College. Both this show and the one we did at Haldia Law College had the same arrangement. Even Ja ved Ali's show at Barasat Evening College had done this,“ Timir said.
 
 Gaurab Chatterjee of Lakkhichhara had done such a college show at Diamond Harbour. “Organisers are doing it for security concern but I shudder to think what would have happened if I had gone with my girlfriend and had to sit separately ,“ Gaurab said.
 
 Baji of Cactus, however, says districts have long been following this seating arrangement. “I don't see any signs of this going down. But bamboo dividers can't do much.Mindsets have to change,“ Baji said.
 
 
