LUDHIANA:The issue of sealing of   H-I and C block has taken legal turn with the complainant sending legal notices to officials of the local bodies department and  . If no action is taken, the complainant will file a writ petition in the Punjab and Haryana High Court. 

 The issue of construction of the community centre without approved building plan, non-payment of dues to the department and other illegalities was raised by city-based RTI activist Baljeet Singh. State vigilance teams also conducted an inquiry into the matter and found the management at fault on many issues. 
 
 Singh took up the matter with the former additional chief secretary, who acted on his complaint and issued sealing orders on October 6, 2016. He complained against the LIT chairman with   (ECI) saying he was not issuing sealing orders deliberately under pressure of SAD BJP leaders, who are using community centres for selfish interests. 
 
 On February 17, LIT officials went to seal the community centre but failed to do so under alleged pressure of BJP leaders. The management of the community centres took the plea that the government has ordered a review of sealing orders issued on October 4, 2016. Officials also said they have to send their comments to the government before further action can be taken in the case. 
 
 The complainant and RTI activist Baljeet Singh said legal notices have been served to the local government, Punjab (additional principal secretary, regional director and deputy director) and Improvement Trust, Ludhiana (The Chairman and Executive Officer) to implement orders to seal community centres. 
 
 According to him, more than four and a half months have passed but the LIT chairman and executive officer brought police force only to give in to political pressure and give time to the management to submit their dues. 
 
 He accused the chairman and executive officer of giving lame excuses that welfare societies have submitted review petitions and that welfare societies fall under the purview of the new policies declared by the state government. As per the legal notice, he said, officials have 30 days to seal community centres and cancel allotment to the management, failing which he said he would file a writ petition in the HC. 
 
 Meanwhile, LIT executive officer H S Chahel said he has no information about the legal notice but as far as community centres are concerned, the government had asked for comments on the review petition. He said comments have been sent and a final decision has to be taken by the government. 
 
