Best Actor (Male) winner Achyuth Kumar is so versatile that he excels in every role he does. For him, playing a pourakarmika, or manual scavenger, in BM Giriraj’s Amaravathi was more than just a challenging role. “The issue of pourakarmikas is relevant and needs to be addressed. Their problems are big, but go unnoticed. They work for very little money, with no health insurance and faulty equipment. Most of them are not assured of permanent employment and this needs to be discussed and addressed. Playing a pourakarmika in Amaravathi is my way of being part of the issue. We are a nation with great technological progress, but we still need men to go down sewage lines and manually clean them. We need to find a solution to this. My preparation for this role was based on my observations of these people from my childhood. The biggest necessity for this role was concern and sympathy for them,” says Achyuth.

 
 
 Sruthi Hariharan, who bagged the award for Best Actor (Female), is happy about winning it for director Jayatheertha’s Beautiful Manasugalu, because it helped her evolve as a person. “This film is based on a real-life incident involving a raid in Mangaluru. The role was different from what I have done till date and a change from the usual ones offered to me. As an actor, Beautiful Manasugalu also broke me from within and helped me evolve as a person. I became bold as a person after playing that character and I began voicing my opinions about the way I feel more openly by being a little more upfront in my statements. This can be attributed to the strength the film gave me. This role also required me to be a lot more dramatic in a few scenes and I’m grateful to have a director like Jayatheertha control me for that. I hope this award opens doors for greater opportunities.”
 
 
 
 BM Giriraj is someone whose films are always looked at with great excitement for their content. This year, his film Amaravathi won awards for First Best Film and for the Best Dialogues. “I have been following this topic since 2002, when I used to do street plays to create awareness. In 2012, Bengaluru faced a tough situation after all pourakarmikas went on a strike for three days and the city was on the verge of breaking down with dangerous epidemics. This inspired me to write this story and that’s when Amaravathi was conceived. It took me three years to get funds for this film. My only motive was to ensure that this issue reaches people and creates awareness on the situation around us in a metropolitan city like Bengaluru,” says Giriraj.
 
 
 
 College caper Kirik Party won the award for the Most Entertaining Film. Debutant producer and lead actor Rakshit Shetty, who had many roles behind the camera for this film, ranging from writer to choreographer, is ecstatic. “This award is very special to me as it was my first production and it getting a State Award is something to be proud of. This belongs to the whole team. I am particularly grateful to my investors from Dubai who believed in us. Since it was our first production, our aim was to give the audience a film that was high on entertainment, be it through the story, dialogues, music or acting and to get noticed in the market. This award is going to be a great motivating factor for us to ensure that we continue giving good cinema that spreads across different genres,” says Rakshit.
 
 
 
 Charan Raj is, by far, the biggest musical find of 2016, with commercially successful music albums like Godhi Banna Sadharna Mykattu and Pushpaka Vimana and the festival circuit favourite Jeerjimbe that won him the State Award for Best Music. “Working on Jeerjimbe was very satisfying, as this film is very good and is helmed by a director with a good vision. The other encouraging bit for me as a composer was the fact that director,  , is a very good musician himself. Working with him for the music was both satisfying and challenging. It was a task for me to satisfy his vision, as he wanted folk music from rural Karnataka, but still make it contemporary to appeal to listeners of today,” says Charan, adding, “I also want to thank  , who has encouraged me very much as a music director during our stint with Godhi Banna Sadharna Mykattu. I also had the good fortune of being a part of a film team like Pushpaka Vimana. Last year will remain special for me.”
 
 
 
 The biggest winner at the State Awards was Karthik Saragur’s Jeerjimbe, which took home four awards, including Best Children’s Film, the director won the Best Lyricist too. Karthik says, “I am overwhelmed by the kind of ownership that my team is having over this award. Even though it was a children’s film, it had over 500 people part of it, so I dedicate this to the community behind the film. Filmmaking today, in fact, has reversed in terms of the trend. Earlier, filmmaking was an individual process while film viewing was a community thing. Today, filmmaking is a community aspect with the crowd-funding concept picking up, while film viewing is increasingly becoming an individual activity.” Jeerjimbe, or jewel beetle, is based on a real-life incident about a young girl who aspires to study, but is being married off to an older man. This makes her pedal to chase her dreams. 
 
 
 
 D Sathyaprakash won the Best Debutant Director award for the film Rama Rama Re, which has won great critical acclaim from the media, audience and his industry peers alike. He still feels that the film could have reached a bigger audience had they a bigger producer backing them. “This film is a four-year journey. While we began scripting in 2011, we began our hunt for producers after it was completed in 2013. We approached a lot of people over two years, but no one was willing to invest on our project. This was when we decided to produce it ourselves. In that sense, everyone who has worked on the film is a producer and despite shooting the film in extreme conditions 600 kms away from Bengaluru, everyone worked passionately. We are glad that the film managed to release and run for 100 days. But, if we had a bigger producer, it would have perhaps run longer and been more visible. Many people beyond Mysuru and Bengaluru have no idea about the film and we wished we could have reached them,” says Sathya. 
 
 
 
 Art director-turned-director Chethan Mundadi believes that it’s indeed divine providence that’s fetched his debut film Madipu the National and State Awards for the Best Regional Film in the span of a few days. “As a child, I was an atheist and would often ask how we can worship a god who is invisible. One day, my father said, ‘The only proof you have that I’ve sired you is because your mother says so. If you can believe it based on her word, why can’t you believe in the existence of a larger power when so many people believe in him?’ That was an eye opener. Another instance that gave me further insight was when I saw a Muslim man play Bhagavatha in a Yakshagana performance close to home,” shares Chethan, talking about the two biggest inspirations behind making Madipu. The debutant, who has been the art director for several art films in Kannada, concurs that helming an art film as his first venture was an organic choice. “And what better subject to convey one’s thoughts than Bhootharadhane? It is what our culture stands on in spite of all the modernity that is sweeping our way. I’m glad our language and ethos has found resonance on both the national and state level,” sums up Chethan.
 — Madhu Daithota
 
 
