Cleared/Anil (434)

 Coimbatore: The city-based environmentalists on World Wetlands Day on Thursday urged both the state government and the civic body to take all possible steps to prevent wetlands from becoming dump yards. They said it was high time that the city corporation fenced the water bodies and imposed fine on people who dump debris, garbage and effluents in the tanks, as part of saving the wetlands.
 
 Referring to the need to fence the water tanks, Mohammed Saleem of Environment Conservation Group said, “It will prevent large vehicles from reaching near the tank banks. As such dumping of waste in water bodies will come down.”
 
 N I Jalaluddin of Nature Conservation Society feels that fencing alone won’t solve the problem. “The civic body needs to deploy officials to monitor the tank round the clock so that erring people could be caught red-handed. The guilty should also be fined heavily,” he said.
 
 Saleem supported the idea. “If you fine them Rs500/Rs 1,000, for a consignment worth Rs20,000, it won’t have any impact. But if you fine a few people to the tune of Rs25,000 for a few months, illegal dumping of garbage in wetlands will naturally come down,” he said.
 
 According to environmentalists, the role of the public is also critical to keep the tanks clean. “Around 30 years ago, people could not count the number of water bodies in the Western region, but today it has come down to a handful. And it’s a man-made calamity,” Jalaluddin said.
 
 “More people should be aware of the roles and importance of water tanks and ways to preserve it, so when they see someone dumping garbage they would to stop that person from doing so or inform the concerned authorities,” Saleem said, adding, “This will go a long way in keeping the tanks clean.”
 
 Once dumping of waste in water bodies is stopped, activists said, desilting and removing weeds will be a lot easier. “The corporation should desilt the tanks, so the water storage capacity is reinstated. Once that is done, removing water hyacinths can also be taken up,” Saleem said.
 
 On the occasion of World Wetlands Day, a group of school students were taken to a bird watching session at the Ukkadam big tank. “This year, the district saw 121 species of bird visiting the district during the winter. This is despite many of our tanks going dry because of the lack of rain. The birds seem to have come to our district because of the lack of water in surrounding regions. But Coimbatore region will face the same situation if wetlands are not maintained properly,” Jalaluddin said.
 
 
