BHOPAL: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s diktat — not to seek ticket for your family members — clouded the proceedings of BJP’s state working committee in Sagar, on Tuesday, with party leaders hailing the decision as a crackdown on political nepotism.

 However, Modi’s decision could cause heartbreak to many political heavyweights in Madhya Pradesh who are eyeing a ticket for their kin in the ensuing bypolls and lobbying for assembly and Lok Sabha elections in 2018 and 2019, respectively.
 
 At present, more than 10 prominent party leaders of the state have a family member who is in politics and also holds an influential position. Former chief minister Kailash Joshi’s son Deepak and late Sunderlal Patwa’s nephew Surendra are both ministers of state in the   government. Their colleague and former MP Kailash Sarang’s son Vishwas also got the coveted berth of minister after a long battle.
 
 Similarly, family members of senior leaders like late Virendra Kumar Sackhlecha, late Nirbhaya Singh Patel, late Laxmi Narayan Pandey, late Ishwar Das Rohani, Phool Chand Verma, Thawar Chand Gehlot, Vikram Verma and Prahlad Patel are also holding political positions because they belong to a political family.
 
 Some influential leaders are eyeing political platform for their kin in the forthcoming by-elections and assembly polls scheduled in 2018. State minister Gopal Bhargava wants a seat for his son Abhishek while party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya is seeking ticket for his son Akash from Mhow or Indore assembly. However, on record, all the ministers rule out any such plan.
 
 It was state legislative affairs minister Narottam Mishra who outrightly supported Modi’s decision, saying that the PM’s order should be implemented in words and spirit in the state, as it implies to the entire party.
 
 “This is a clear message by Prime Minister Modi. We should respect the decision in the interest of party’s growth,” he told reporters during the inaugural session of two-day meet in Sagar, on Tuesday.
 
 Minister Gopal Bhargava, though, did not find anything wrong when relatives intend to join special service and work for the party as a grassroots worker. “Those who are working and are active within the party should be given importance over those who were airdropped,” he said.
 
 The leaders also justified selection of Manju Dadu, daughter of late Rajendra Dadu, who was elected from Nepanagar in the recent bypoll. They said she was active even when her father was alive and is a known BJP face among the public.
 
 State home minister Bhupendra Singh and higher education minister Jaibhan Singh Pavaiyya also supported PM’s decision, saying it would encourage young talent and control nepotism.
 
 The party also cleared a resolution on PM’s diktat in the working committee meet, with state general secretary Ajay Pratap Singh saying, “Suggestions given by Prime Minister Modi on purity and transparency will be adopted by the state unit. Our party gives poll tickets on the basis of efficiency, activeness, popularity and efforts, but not nepotism.”
 
 GFX
 
 LEADERS AND THEIR KIN
 
 Kailash Joshi, former CM — Deepak Joshi (son), Minister
 
 Prahlad Patel, MP (Damoh) — Jalim Singh (brother) MLA from Gotegaon
 
 Kailash Sarang, Ex-MP — Vishwas Sarang (son) Minister
 
 Sunderlal Patwa, former CM — Surendra Patwa (nephew) Minister
 
 Satyendra Pathak, former Minister — Sanjay Pathak (son) Minister
 
 Laxmi Narayan Pande Ex-MP (Mandsaur) — Rajendra Pandey, MLA (Jaora)
 
 Virendra Sackhlecha, former CM — Omprakash Sackhlecha, MLA (Jawad)
 
 Nirbhay Singh Patel, former Minister — Manoj Patel (son), MLA (Depalpur)
 
 Phool Chand Verma, Ex-MP — Rajendra Verma (son), MLA (Sonkutch)
 
 Pushpraj Singh, former minister — Divyaraj Singh (son), MLA (Sirmour)
 
 Thawar Chand Gehlot, union minister — Jitendra Gehlot (son), MLA (Alote).
 
 Ishwardas Rohani, former Assembly Speaker, Ashok Rohani (son), MLA (Jabalpur Cantt)
 
 Rajendra Dadu former MLA — Manju Dadu (daughter) MLA (Nepanagar)
 
 Vikram Verma, former union minister — Neena Verma (wife), MLA (Dhar)
 
 SEEKING TICKETS
 
 Gyan Singh, MP from Shahdol seeking ticket for son Shikumar Singh from Bandhavgarh assembly
 
 Gopal Bhargava, panchayat minister, seeking ticket for his son Abhishek Bhargava. During 2014 Lok Sabha elections, he had sought ticket for Abhishek from Damoh.
 
 Kailash Vijayvargiya, BJP national general secretary, seeking ticket for son Akash Vijayvargiya from Mhow
 
 Jayant Malaiya, finance minister, seeking ticket for son Siddharth from Damoh
 
 Ramkrishna Kusumariya, chairman, Bundelkhand Development Authority, seeking ticket for son Rajendra Kusumariya
 
 Uma Bharti, union minister, seeking ticket for nephew Rahul Singh for assembly 2018. He was a candidate from Khargapur during previous assembly election.
 
 
