THANE: The   community celebrated   or new year on Monday with prayers, feasting and loads of merriment. 

 Members of the community visited fire temples and offered prayers to mark the start of the start of the 1386 year according to the  . 
 
 The day not only marks the spring equinox, but also commemorates the just rule of King Jamshed of Iran. The day is observed by the Irani community as well as the Fasli sect of the Parsi community.
 
 Kersi Bilimoria, a   resident, said, “We wear new clothes and begin our day by visiting the fire temple. We offer sandalwood in the holy fire that is kept burning throughout. The rest of the day is spent eating good food like patrani machhi and dhanssak.”
 
 “The table in each home will have a pread of seven items that begin the leters ‘sh’ as they have a special significance. There has to be a balance between sweet, spicy, bitter and sour. So, the iteams used are sharab (wine), shakar (sugar), shir (milk), shirin berenjor (sweet meat), shahad (honey), shirin (sweet), and shira (syrup).
 
 The seven eatables spread on the ocassion are sirka (vinegar), sumac (spice), sumanu (pudding made from wheat germ), sib (apple), sabzi (green vegetables), senjed (sorb tree berry) and seer (garlic). A picture of prophet   is kept on the table, along with flowers and incense,” he added.
 
 While this New Year celebration has always taken place on March 21, it has been celebrated from March 20 itself for the past two years.
 
 “Since the last 75 year, I have been celebrating Navroz on March 2. However, due to some changes in calculations, the date has changed. The New Year calendar turned at 3.58pm on Monday. The temple will be hosting a massive function on the second day of the two-day festivities on Tuesday,” said Pervez Bhesania, trustee of the Thane Zoroastrian Charity Fund.
 
 The table in each home will have a pread of seven items that begin the leters ‘sh’ as they have a special significance. The seven eatables spread on the ocassion are sirka (vinegar), sumac (spice), sumanu (pudding made from wheat germ), sib (apple), sabzi (green vegetables), senjed (sorb tree berry) and seer (garlic)
 
 
