NAGPUR: If you thought contesting elections is a cakewalk for candidates belonging to bigger parties, you are mistaken. It is a struggle all the way for many. First, it was to get nomination and now, it is to find funds to campaign.

 While the BJP has somewhat eased the burden on the candidates, those representing NCP, Congress and other parties say managing campaign finance is an uphill struggle every day. “Till now, I have spent over Rs 50,000 from my pocket. This includes every campaign expense — right from printing banners, pamphlets to arranging vehicles and sound system,” said NCP candidate Nutan Rewatkar, who is contesting from ward no. 17.
 
 Another NCP candidate from ward no 2 said, requesting anonymity, that the party didn’t give anything apart from the ticket. “Being a party loyalist since years, I was asked to contest. I was expecting some campaign assistance from the party, if not financial aid, at least in the form of material such as banners and flags,” she said, adding that parties are helping those who have the wherewithal to contest.
 
 Candidates further complained that most of their time was wasted on taking permissions and completing other formalities. “Candidates are handling everything alone. Permission has to be taken for everything, whether for putting up banners or sound system. Parties could have assisted in obtaining these clearances,” Rewatkar said.
 
 However, a senior BJP leader said that the party provided material at 25% less than the market rate. “The party is buying items in bulk at a cheaper cost,” he said.
 
 But another BJP contestant   contesting from ward no. 2 said that campaign finance is being taken care of by the candidates. “We are contributing for all the expenses,” he said. Manish Madke, a BJP candidate from ward no. 6, also said the same. “The party doesn’t bear campaign finance. It’s divided between the candidates,” he said.
 
 Some Congress candidates said that apart from the party manifesto, they were not provided anything else. Some of them are trying to keep the campaigning cost minimum. “We are keeping the campaigning low-key, without mikes or speakers. We arrange public meetings and discuss problems faced by the residents,” said Pankaj Thorat, a Congress candidate from ward no. 35.
 
 Crowd-funding is another way out for candidates facing cash crunch. “Supporters of our area are donating money for printing banners and brochures,” said some contestants.
 
 Though political observers don’t find anything wrong in crowd-funding, they feel that political parties must fund campaigns. “Most of the parties think of campaigns as the candidates’ business and that they have nothing to do with it. Ideally, campaign finance should come from both the party and candidate,” said  , senior assistant professor of political science at  .
 
 On parties which cite lack of resources for funding campaigns of large number of candidates, Jambhulkar said that they should be able to raise funds and distribute them evenly.
 
