NAGPUR: The Bharatiya Janata Party wave and the   wiped out smaller political parties in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation on Thursday. For the first time more than 31 smaller parties, including the Shiv Sena, NCP, BSP and new entrants AIMIM, were in the fray. But their presence failed to impress the voters.

 The results shocking for BSP which had hoped to increase its tally from 6 to 12. For the first time, BSP had fielded 103 candidates. 
 
 The party was went into the polls with ‘corruption’ written all over it. Workers, even sitting corporators, accused the party of selling tickets for cash. Many rebels contested as independent candidates too. 
 
 As a result, the party could not handle the cadre and also mobilize votes through booth management.
 
 Despite the traditional support from the Dalit and Muslim community, intraparty fight dented the party’s credibility.
 
 Rebels were a stumbling block in the party’s chances to increase its present strength. Party’s sitting corporator Gautam Patil too lost.
 
 However, new entrants in the party like Priyanka Bhiwgade, Mohammed Jamal and Mangala Lanjewar managed to win their seats.
 
 Shiv Sena’s strength too decreased by from 6 to 3. Mangala Gawre, Kishore Kumeriya and Ramesh Ingle won their respective seats. However, sitting corporators Alka Dalal, Suresh Talwekar, Jagtram Sinha were among those who lost.
 
 Senior party leader Shekhar Sawarbandhe blamed the party’s poor performance due to lack of unity among the party’s candidates. According to him, party has fielded 85 candidates but most of them campaigned for themselves only.
 
 Nationalist Congress Party too received a major setback as only one its six sitting corporators, Duneshwar Pethe, managed to hold on to his seat. This time as the party failed to strike an alliance with the Congress, it formed a grand alliance with 14 political parties to take on the BJP and Congress in the civic polls. 
 
 Though the NCP was confident to improve its strength, even its sitting corporator like Raju Nagulwar lost. 
 
 First-time entrant AIMIM, which had fielded 19 candidates, failed to open its account. Party chief   had addressed a rally in Nagpur but that failed to rouse the voters. 
 
 Vidarbha Maza Party (which had fielded 19 candidates) and Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi (1) too failed to open their accounts. 
 
 
