On wooden benches which doubled as the Indian dugout,   and team sat like nervous turkeys before Christmas as the batters unravelled at the most inopportune time, denying themselves a date with history.

 In a nerve-wracking ICC Women's World Cup finale at the Lord's in London on Sunday, Mithali and her band of gutsy girls fell short by nine runs as pacer Anya Shrubsole's match-winning 6-46 handed England their fourth World Cup.
 
 After Jhulan Goswami (323) -playing her fourth World Cup -restricted the home team to a modest 2287, India were on course for most part of the chase, but were bowled out for 219 in 48.4 overs.
 
 The Indians could not finish their riveting journey through the tournament with a flourish due to a few elementary mistakes which cost them the match and the Cup. For starters, most of them were sloppy in the field and doled out at least 20 runs as freebies to Heather Knight and her team. The running between the wickets left a lot to be desired and it was a classic case of the nerves getting the better of the two-time finalists, who virtually threw the Cup into the hands of the hosts.
 
  (0) again failed to give the team a start as she misread a Shrubsole delivery and lost her stumps in the second over. In-form Mithali was runout as she was caught strolling in mid pitch with the team total at 43. The star of the semifinal win over Australia,   (51, 80, 3x4, 2x6) joined opener Punam Raut (86, 115b, 4x4, 1x6) to revive the team's fortunes with a 95-run third-wicket partnership. The 53run fourth-wicket stand between Punam and Veda Krishnamurthy (35, 34b, 5x4) too saw the team move towards the target, but Shrubsole - with the lethal inswingers - had other plans and the Indians thereafter only played into her hands, losing five wickets for 23 runs.
 
 Earlier, the home team rode on a timely 68-ball 51 even as Jhulan turned in a stunning spell which saw her claim three wickets in 10 balls. Tam balls.
 
 England who chose to bat were given a stead start by Lauren Winfield and   before left-arm spinner   broke the opening stand. After losing two wickets, Sciver and a patient   (45, 62b) stitched together a 83-run fourth-wicket partnership before Jhulan struck again.
 
 At one point, with the Indian spinners cutting runs, it looked like crossing 200 was an uphill task for England, but   (34) and Jennifer Gunn (35) saw the home team to a respectable total.
 
 It was a total the Indians failed to breech. Alas, Miithali and Jhulan will finish their World Cup journeys as two-time bridesmaids.
 
