HUBBALLI: Facing flak from various quarters, the state government may restore the ‘conservation reserve tag’ to Kappatagudda in Gadag district.

 The   will hold a meeting on this issue on Monday, chief minister Siddaramaiah, who is also chairman of the  , said on Sunday. He was at Hubballi airport, on his way to Noolvi village.
 
 The Wildlife Board had cleared a proposal to declare 17,872 hectares of reserve forest of Kappatagudda as a conservation reserve, under Section 36A of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, on December 19, 2015.
 
 On November 4, 2016, the state government decided to withdraw the notification declaring Kappatagudda a conservation reserve, stating that no public consultation was held.
 
 Environmentalists, supported by seers of various Lingayat mutts in the region, had launched a relentless campaign over the past three months to restore the tag for Kappatagudda. Some protesters said the government had, under pressure from a section of the mining lobby, withdrawn the notification. 
 
 Activists and the people of Gadag and other parts of   are eagerly waiting to know the outcome of Monday’s meeting. If the board decides to restore the conservation tag, it would be a celebration for the people. If not, they will prepare for big protests in the days to come.
 
 Organizations led by social activist S R Hiremath, seer Siddalingaswami of Tontadarya Mutt, Gadag, and several activists and writers observed a dharna for three days and nights last week to pressure the government to meet their demands of giving conservation reserve status to Kappatagudda.
 
 There was anger among the people which found voice at a public consultation meeting held on January 16, 2017, at Dambal. The forest department and Gadag district administration had already submitted the report on the meeting, 249 people had submitted petitions on the issue
 
 -- 217 people were in favour of declaring Kappatagudda as a conservation reserve while 32 had opposed it.
 
 RDPR minister and Gadag district minister H K Patil told TOI: “I attended the public consultation meeting and expressed my opinion on the Kappatagudda conservation tag. Our government is in favour of protecting Kappatagudda. On Monday, the CM and 25-30 members of the Wildlife Board will meet, and the government will definitely announce its decision to protect Kappatagudda as a conservation reserve soon.”
 
 S H  , activist and secretary, Jagadguru Tontadarya Vidyapeeth, Gadag, said Kappatagudda should be protected as a conservation reserve. If the government fails to make its decision clear on Monday, we will plan our future course of action, he said.
 
