Nagpur: While transferring investigation of FIRs related to dispute between two parties to criminal investigation department (CID), the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court censured the Ajni police making it clear that “police station is not a place to settle private disputes”. The bench further flayed cops for not conducting fair investigation into the complaints filed by warring factions. “The police station can’t be a place to be used where private disputes between parties can be settled by its officers by acts of commission or omission and under threat of putting into motion criminal law on the basis of complaints,” a division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Manish Pitale tersely stated. While allowing businessman Rajendra Padole’s plea, the judges noted that in criminal justice system, fair, impartial and truthful investigations are of greatest significance so that faith of citizen is reinforced. “A fair trial also depends on the manner of investigation. If there is any indication of either callousness or high-handedness in functioning of investigating agency, the very root of criminal justice system is adversely affected,” the judges said. The petitioner had moved court after respondent Deepraj Khobragade lodged a complaint at Ajni police station alleging that the former had cheated him by not repaying Rs55 lakh related to a plot. Padole also lodged a counter-complaint against the respondent and his wife. The court made it clear that setting criminal law in motion to facilitate settlement of private scores or civil disputes amounts to abuse of power by the competent authority. Similarly, failure to set the criminal law in motion in genuine cases amounts to abdication of function by the authority. “We noticed that promptness or efficiency shown by the police officers in registering offences, in spite of settlement is not reflected in petitioner’s complaint. The sequence of events and manner in which investigating agency proceeded demonstrate its unfair and partial approach. This leads to an apprehension that neither the investigation in matter will be fair nor the trial would be conducted in a fair manner.” The judges pointed out that the investigating authority is expected to professionally conduct probe with promptitude and without taking sides. “We feel that right from the first instance, when respondents filed three complaints, making grave allegations against the petitioner, till stage of inordinate delay in registering FIR, the Ajni police hasn’t acted in a fair, truthful and impartial manner. In the face of such conduct, the investigation does not inspire confidence and the entire process is vitiated,” the HC said. The judges added that in these circumstances, the probe ought to be transferred to an independent investigating agency. “We believe that the ends of justice would be met if two FIRs and investigation are transferred to the CID to be investigated by an officer not less than the rank of deputy superintendent of police. He should conduct investigation and file a report before the trial court at the earliest, so as to ensure fair trial for both sides,” the court said before disposing of the plea. 