The city hosts several music festivals each year, and a lot goes into the preparation for one. It all begins with the setting up of stages, printing of tickets and putting up flex boards to advertise the event. Apart from that, there are several food and beverage stalls at the venue that dish out goodies in plastic plates, spoons, cups and bottles. Just think about all the garbage that is generated as a result. Didn’t spare a thought to that before, did you? Well, the organizers of   — touted as India’s first ecologically crafted music festival — recognized this, and like the first edition last year, the second one, that is scheduled for mid-November, will follow the ‘reduce, reuse, recycle’ mantra.

 “Last year, one side of the festival was dedicated to Karnataka’s oldest performance art forms, and the other was about sustainability and reuse. Eighty percent of festival was produced with recycled and upcycled material. This year, we are going to take it a couple of notches higher,” says  , one of the organizers.
 
 This year, the festival is themed around the bugs of the ecosystem, which will be reflected in the installation art and the stages. Why bugs, we ask? “We all speak about the cutting of trees, which is a terrible thing. What many may not realize is that when trees are chopped, there are several life forms that are affected, such as bugs. The loss of bug life has quite an impact on the environment,” says Roshan.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 This is a no-plastic festival, so, the organizers say there will be no flexes and nothing printed out. “We didn’t sell plastic water bottles last year. We had RO filters onsite and gave away free water. We had glass water bottles as part of the merchandise for those who wanted to buy water. The rejected water from the RO filter was used to plant saplings, which was a part of a drive — we planted a sapling for every ticket sold. We had put a huge waste management system in place, and the food stalls only served on bio-degradable crockery. We will replicate all this and more this year,” Roshan adds.
 
 
 
 What’s a music festival without, well, good music? The fest is for people of all ages, and is children and pet friendly, which will reflect in the music. So, you will be treated to electronic music, classical performances, reggae, hip hop, jazz, blues and more, with Indian and international artistes coming together for the sake of planet Earth.
 
 Since one of the aims of the music fest is to bring about synergy and get the youth to go back to their roots (as far as   is concerned), the focus was on   last year. This year, the spotlight will be on   toys, with one stage being completely dedicated to the art form, apart from toy-making workshops.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 In its first edition, the Echoes of Earth had an entrance signage made entirely out of junked media, while recycled and upcycled items were used to create festival elements, zones, installation art and décor. What will be used as part of the décor this year? Here’s the lowdown:
 
 
