Shortly before she left for the Koovathur resort on Monday to meet the MLAs,   narrated to AIADMK workers the “plight of Jayalalithaa“ who was accompanying the body of M G Ramachandran. “A few of Janaki's (MGR's wife) relatives pushed Amma from the vehicle and Jeppiar (of Jeppiar college of engineering) hit her on the back. He was tall and well-built.  , who was just a small boy then, was standing behind him. He caught Jeppiar's hand and bit him.That's all he could do,“ she said, evoking loud applause from her supporters at Veda Nilayam, Jayalalithaa's residence.

 Hours before she was to surrender on Wednesday, Sasikala chose her now grown-up nephew, popularly known as TTV , to helm the party as its deputy general secretary. In what could be seen as an ambitious move to wield control of the party despite her conviction in the DA case, she re-inducted Dinakaran along with another nephew S Venkatesh into the party. Jayalalithaa had expelled the duo along with 12 others, including Sasikala and her husband M N Natarajan, in December 2011 for committing “treacherous“ acts. While Sasikala was re-inducted three months later, the others were not.
 
 The emerging power centre was visible when Dinakaran sat by Sasikala's side when the latter met governor C Vidyasagar Rao on February 9 to stake claim to form a government, triggering a huge backlash on social media. The point person also accompanied Edappadi K Palaniswami when he visited the Raj Bhavan on Wednesday. “He is a good team leader and an acceptable face for the cadres as he takes everyone into his fold. There was talk among seniors that Dinakaran should take over as general secretary but that did not happen,“ said a former associate. It came as no surprise that Dinakaran became a war room manager for Sasikala.
 
 His rise in public life began at Periakulam, the home turf of chief minister O Panneerselvam. The Sasikala family's clout in Poes Garden was evident when Dinakaran was fielded in the Periakulam parliamentary constituency in 1999. The outsider won by a margin of 45,000 votes, thanks to his poll manager O Panneerselvam, who was Periakulam municipal chairman then. Dinakaran had stayed in OPS' house during the campaign.The modest and hardworking Panneerselvam caught the attention of Dinakaran, which resulted in   taking over the hot seat of chief minister thrice, when Jayalalithaa had to vacate the seat following legal impediments. When Dinakaran failed to wrest the seat for a second term in 2004, Jayalalithaa offered him a Rajya Sabha seat on a platter within months.
 
 But the elder son of Vanithamani, Sasikala's sister, was shown the door along with his brothers V Baskaran and V N Sudhakaran (the disowned foster son of Jayalalithaa) in 2011.“He could enter only after Amma's demise,“ said AIADMK leader Karuppasamy Pandian, who resigned the post of organising secretary to protest against Dinakaran's appointment.
 
 Incidentally, the Madras high court has confirmed an order of the FERA Appellate Board imposing a penalty of Rs 28 crore on Dinakaran in a case initiated by the Enforcement Directorate in 1996. The case was related to the receipt of over $1 crore by Dinakaran in alleged contravention of FERA in 1994-95.
 
