

 
   ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  
 
 
  Shiva Nirvan
 
 
 07 Jul, 2017
 
 
 2 hrs 02 mins
 
 
 Ninnu Kori is an Telugu romance film directed by debutant Shiva Nirvana and produced by DVV Danayya under DVV Entertainments. Nani and Nivetha Thomas play the lead roles in the movie while Aadhi Pinisetty plays a pivotal role. Gopi Sunder was roped in to compose music for the film. Prawin Pudi and Karthik Ghattamaneni are the editor and cinematographer of this movie respectively. The movie was launched in November 2016 and shooting commenced in February 2017 in the United States.
 
 
  Till the first half, Ninnu Kori plays out like any other routine film with the trappings of a quintessential love story, but the treatment is fresh. With striking visuals and two songs, 'Unnatundi Gunde' and 'Adiga Adiga', the movie keeps one glued to the seat. 
 .
 
 
  The first half has a bunch of cute scenes, depicting Uma and Pallavi’s love story, and then the story moves ahead to establish the reasons behind their break-up, why Uma chose career over love, and Pallavi let go of opportunities to reconcile with him. Post intermission, the narrative continues at a comfortable pace with several interesting elements thrown in to make the audience gasp and even well up at certain points. Attempts by debutant director Shiva Nirvana to stay true to the film’s tagline — Let’s welcome life (by giving it another chance) — is on point. Youngsters would be able to relate with many of the situations shown in the film. The focus is on the complexities of relationships, married life and understanding between a couple. 
 . 
 
 
 : Actor Nani is North America's new favourite as 'Ninnu Kori' crosses $ 170,000 right in its premier shows. Watch this space for more updates on box office collection of movie Ninnu Kori. 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
