BHOPAL: You hear of flag marches usually in times of widespread mob violence or riots. But police and   had to march down the streets of   in an unprecedented show of strength on Friday to instill confidence among businessmen who are scared of trigger-happy goons.

 The latest trigger was a brazen daylight shooting at a mobile phone shop on April 4 that injured two persons. It rattled the town’s traders so much that they flocked to police for reassurance.
 
 On Friday, over 100 policemen and SAF jawans performed a   led by additional SP Yashpal Rajpoot. The contingent includes personnel from three police stations, the police lines and SAF.
 
 “We went around the city, passing through Hanuman Chouraha, Ganeshpura, Ganj and Sunder Nagar. Earlier, such marches were done by individual police stations but this time it was highlighted a little more. There are directives to hold such exercises to send a message to criminals,” Rajpoot said.
 
 On April 4, a group of youths had a dispute with a mobile shop owner. They started beating the businessmen but shop employees fought back and nabbed one of them. A little later, more goons arrived and started shooting at the shop, hitting two persons. Glass panes of shops shattered and shot out like missiles. In the chaos, the goons freed their accomplice and fled. The street was crowded at the time and it’s a miracle that the casualty figure wasn’t higher.
 
 The shooting sparked panic in the area. Some shopkeepers downed their shutters, a witness said. Four suspects were arrested immediately after the incident but the traders were frightened and demanded security, said the ASP. “The shooting sent shockwaves among the traders’ community,” said Vipin Goyal, president of Morena Vyapari association. They met SP Vineet Khanna and demanded protection.
 
 The SP assured them security and directed police to carry out a flag march. “We wanted police presence in the market areas and asked for protection from the SP. The march past has sent a message. But we want regular police patrolling,” Goyal said.
 
 
