NAGPUR: HSC students who appeared for maths paper this   even though they were ineligible for it because of taking   in  , may not only get to save an academic year but also get a shot at  . 

 A senior state board official told TOI that asking these students to appear for regular maths Std X paper in the July/August supplementary will solve multiple issues. “First of all, it will make their HSC maths paper legit and also allow them to apply for engineering course,” said the official. 
 
 The problem relates to the issue of students who opted for general maths (easier version) in Std X and were allowed to opt for maths in Std XI and XII. As per the rules, general maths Std X students are barred from choosing maths in HSC, thus effectively closing down engineering as career option. 
 
 To counter this problem, and save the students’ academic year, board officials were thinking of allowing them to appear for sociology paper in the supplementary exam. An official said, “Appearing for sociology saves their academic year as its marks are off-set against their cancelled maths paper. But then doing so obviously shuts the door on career options in engineering. A more comfortable option can be to give them special permission for Std X’s maths paper during the supplementary exam. If they clear that, then everything gets sorted out.” 
 
 These are some of the options board will consider when its top officials meet on May 25 in Pune. Though the meeting has multiple agendas and not called for the maths subject issue, sources say it will be discussed in detail. The board official said, “The immediate action will be to fail the students because they are ineligible for HSC maths paper. I think on May 25 we will be able to get views of different people and a solution will be found.” Board officials maintain that the fault lies with colleges for not checking documents properly.
 
 Divisional board offices are still uncovering students like these and hence no final figure has been reached at. On an average, there are 30-50 students each from a couple of districts under Nagpur and Amravati divisions. Board officials say this is pan-Maharashtra problem, so the final figure will easily be in a couple of thousands.
 
