BATHINDA: District police have launched a campaign to keep a strict vigil on   who smuggle liquor from   to various villages of Bathinda. The police are using Section 110 (security for good behaviour from habitual offenders) of CrPC and also roping in sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to support them on their mission to contain the crime. 

 An SDM is authorised to send offenders behind bars or getting assurance from eminent persons that they would not return to criminal activities. According to sources police begun preparing a list of habitual offenders across the district 10 days ago, and finished the job in three days. The lists were handed over to various police stations in Bathinda with the direction to pick those persons and produce them before the SDMs.
 
 When contacted, Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP)   said, “The district police have identified over 450 habitual offenders involved in many types of crimes, including liquor and drug smuggling. We have arrested 175 persons in the last one week and more arrests are on the anvil.” According to police, Section 110 is generally used in metropolitan cities where the commissionerate system is in place and the police have magisterial powers. 
 
 Bordering Haryana, Bathinda is prone to liquor smuggling which has increased manifold in the current fiscal with a big variation in the rates of country-made liquor in Haryana and Punjab. Over 110 cases of liquor smuggling have been registered in Bathinda in the past 50 days making an average of more than two cases of liquor smuggling from Haryana everyday.
 
 As per excise and taxation department officials, a country-made liquor is priced between Rs 800 and Rs 1,000 in Haryana and is sold between Rs 1,400 and Rs 1,700 per case in Bathinda. A bottle in Haryana is available between Rs 80 and Rs 120 and minimum price for a liquor bottle in Bathinda is Rs 180.
 
 Smuggling of liquor from Haryana to Bathinda is mainly operated through cars. More than two dozen cars in liquor smuggling have been impounded. A small quantity of liquor is also smuggled through motorcycles. In the past two months, 110 cases of liquor smuggling have been registered and more than 150 persons have been arrested. Nearly 1,500 cases (18,000) bottles have been recovered from the bootleggers. Porous areas of Bathinda adjoining Haryana, where liquor smuggling is reported, are Talwandi Sabo, Rama and Sangat. Smuggling takes place from Doomwali, Narang, Panniwala and some other villages falling on link roads, said a police official.
 
