CHANDIGARH: The wife of the   whose video about inferior food served to paramilitary personnel hit the headlines spoke out in defence of her husband on Wednesday.

 “If my husband was mentally unstable or indisciplined, why was he given a rifle by the   to guard the country’s border in crucial areas?” asked Sharmila  , wife of  .
 
 My husband’s problem is that he is in the habit of not tolerating injustice, for which he has suffered during his service tenure,” Sharmila Yadav, wife of Tej Bahadur Yadav, told TOI on Wednesday. Around 90 lakh people have watched the video and around 4.4 lakh have shared it on social media sites in three days.
 
  
  , but BSF IG DK Upadhyaya had asserted on Tuesday that 
  .
 
 Talking to TOI over phone from Rewari in Haryana, Sharmila claimed her husband had won a gold medal after completing his training before being inducted into the BSF. She also claims to be in possession of 14 awards given to him by BSF authorities in his 20-year career.
 
 Sharmila alleged that her husband had been punished in the past by the BSF for speaking the truth. “BSF is a disciplined force and in the armed forces even a small mistake is intolerable. If he had such a bad record, why was he retained ” she asked.
 
 Sharmila, who lives with her 17-year-old son, Rohit, said her husband wanted to continue for another five years in the BSF, but officers compelled him to take voluntary retirement after completing 20 years of service on January 31. His VRS application has been approved. “My husband had discussed with me many times the poor quality of food served to them but I was stunned when he posted the video. I told him that he may be in trouble.” She said many people had questioned the authenticity of the video and the social media account. “Since I know Tej’s Facebook password, I logged in to clarify that it was genuine account and post.”
 
 Tej is the youngest of five brothers. One of his brothers is also a BSF jawan and another serves in the Gujarat police. Sharmila works in a private company. Son Rohit recently completed his Class XII exam and is preparing for engineering entrance exams.
 
 
