After a terror attack in Jammu and Kashmir killed seven Amarnath pilgrims on Monday evening, Delhi witnessed several protests and candlelight vigils on Tuesday. While Jantar Mantar saw a gathering of citizens under the #NotInMyName banner,   was the venue for a candlelight vigil by teachers, students and members of Khudai Khidmatgar. Jantar Mantar, the protest centre of the city, saw at least two other protests organized by the student wings of different political parties. However, despite several protests being planned, the turnout was not huge because of heavy rains. 

  
  A candlelight vigil at   against the attack
 
 
  Saba Dewan, a Delhi-based documentary filmmaker and co-founder of the #NotInMyName campaign, told us, "We are here today in grief and remembrance of the killing of seven Amarnath pilgrims. We believe that every human life is precious and we stand against hatred regardless of the perpetrator." Imad Ulriyaz, a social worker from Kashmir who has been living in Delhi for eight years, said, "I joined the protest as I completely denounce the attack. Every Kashmiri is against it and I came here in solidarity."
 
  
  (BCCL)
 
  Anjali Yadav, a recent graduate from Miranda House, was at Jantar Mantar carrying a placard that read 'Violence is evil. Bas keh diya.' She told us, "I condemn the violence. I remember my grandmother telling me how safe the   is. This protest will send across the message that any kind of hatred is not acceptable."
 
  
  
 
  Apart from Jantar Mantar, a candlelight vigil was held at Jamia Milia Islamia, which was orgainsed by the university's teachers, students and with the members of Khudai Khidmatgar (an organization that works to address social and educational issues). While the turnout was low because of the rains, the participants carried placards with messages in solidarity with the Amarnath victims.
 
  The vigil was held at Bab-e-Mahmud-ul-Hasan, the Gate Number 17 of Jamia. Sahil Ahmed, a final-year student at Jamia, said, "When Mahatma Gandhi started the Non-Cooperation Movement, the call to start the Khilafat Movement (which supported Hindu-Muslim unity) was also taken. These two movements contributed to the birth of Jamia, and it is a symbolic place. Hum chahte thay ki yahan se aawaz jayegi toh logon tak pohonchegi. It is important to condemn the attacks because we believe in the philosophy that the world is one family."
 
  
  
 
    Abbas, secretary of Jamia Teachers' Association, also condemned the attack and said, "In our country, we have always respected all religions and when I read the news, it really disturbed me. Some of the members from the Jamia Teachers' Association have also taken part in the vigil at Jantar Mantar. Agar hum logon ko lag raha hai ki kuch sahi nahi ho raha hai toh humein aage aake batana padega, ghar pe baithke sochne se kuch nahi hoga."
 
  
  Students and teachers protested against Amarnath killings at the university 
 
 
  Khushboo Khan, who is pursuing masters in Sociology from Jamia, added, "We did not come here to raise slogans; we are here only to stand in solidarity with all those who were killed. We wanted to make it very loud and clear to the terrorists that they don’t belong to any religion, they are against humanity."
 
 
  
  
 
 
