KOLHAPUR: The divisional controller of Kolhapur division of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) claimed that no incident of fraud was committed using the demonetised   across 12 depots in the district. 

  A city-based organisation had levelled allegations against the conductors for exchanging old currency notes with passengers after the demonetisation news was announced in November. Taking a note of the allegation, guardian minister   instructed the divisional controller to file a detailed investigation report to the district collector. 
 
 District collector,   said, “As per instruction from the guardian minister, I went through the transaction records after the demonetisation news was declared. We have investigated collections across 12 depots and have found that none of the conductors had made an exchange in Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 old currency notes.”
 
 “We found that few conductors on longer routes had accepted high currency notes on November 26, 2016 as they were not aware about the decision of scrapping old notes,” he said.
 
 “We did not find any fraud while investigating the case. We have found some technical errors but that cannot lead to any criminal charges against the employees.”
 
 A detailed report will be submitted to the district collector on Monday.
 
 An MSRTC official said, “Conductors travelling on longer routes are forced to receive high denomination notes. Immediately after demonetisation, people used various ways to exchange their old notes. We cannot keep a watch on each and every conductor. We do not have any mechanism to find out transactions done by the conductors. They submitted an accurate amount as per their tickets. It was difficult to find out whether they exchanged money or not.”
 
 President of   Patit Pawan Sanghatana who levelled the fraud in old currency exchange against MSRTC   said, “We had presented our point before the guardian minister and have demanded a transparent investigation in the case. We will seek for the final report and present our opinion before the district collection. If needed, we will also file a public interest litigation against MSRTC.
 
