Pune: The   has granted an   anticipatory bail to a   engineering student, who is facing charges of abetting his 23-year-old girlfriend to commit suicide on May 16.

 The student’s girlfriend, a techie, had committed suicide by jumping from the fifth floor of a residential highrise in Kondhwa. The young woman’s father had lodged an FIR on June 30, alleging that the suspect established friendship and, later, physical relationship with his daughter and forced her to undergo an abortion when she conceived. 
 
 On the prosecution’s request, Justice A S Gadkari adjourned the matter to October 4 and ordered the interim   to the student on September 19.
 
 Additional sessions judge Lata L Yenkar here had rejected the suspect’s anticipatory bail plea on August 2, observing that the case was not fit for such a relief. The sessions court relied on the medical papers and the statements by three witnesses, who knew the woman and the suspect and were present when the two had a quarrel before she jumped from the fifth-floor staircase duct area.
 
 “In the present case, the ingredients of abetment of suicide appear to have been fulfilled and it cannot be said that custodial interrogation of the applicant is not necessary,” judge Yenkar had said while rejecting the plea for pre-arrest bail. 
 
 The suspect has since moved the high court by filing an anticipatory bail plea through his lawyer Aashutosh Srivastava. When the matter came up before Justice Gadkari, additional public prosecutor S R Agarkar sought time on the ground that the investigating officer needed to bring some relevant papers to the court. 
 
 The   bench then ordered, “In the event of arrest of the applicant in the case registered by Kondhwa police, the applicant shall be released on bail on his furnishing a personal release (PR) bond in the sum of Rs 25,000 with one or two solvent local sureties in the like amount.” The bench has restrained the suspect from tampering with the evidence and/or influencing the prosecution witnesses.
 
 
