PUNE: Climate change is creeping closer home, in  . 

 Over the past 15 years, the highest rise in land surface temperature has been observed over the built-up area of Pune, where buildings and structures have increased during the last decade. The average temperature rise in such areas has been over 3 degrees C in 15 years — from April 2001 to April 2016, a recent College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP), analysis has found.
 
 The analysis, based on satellite data from the US Geological Survey’s Earth Resources Observation and Science (EROS), also found that areas developed over the years like Aundh, Kothrud, Vimannagar and Baner are experiencing the “heat island effect” due to the use of heat-absorbing construction materials (concrete, brick, ceramic) for building roads, pavements, footpaths, parking lots and terraces.
 
 The term " " describes built-up areas that are hotter than nearby surrounding areas.
 
 Urban heat islands develop as heat is emitted from a range of built-up surfaces, under favourable meteorological conditions, said Omkar Parishwad, who headed the analysis and is an assistant professor, town planning, civil engineering department, CoEP.
 
 The analysis, which was recently presented in the national conference on urban environmental management in India in Jaipur, estimated the land cover change in the city during the past 15 years and consequent heat island   due to  .
 
 The research said that over the last 15 years (2001-2016), the rise in land surface temperature has been higher in areas where there is more built-up and barren land, due to reduced green cover in these areas. “The temperature was found to be low in the core areas of Pune, which does not relate it with most of the western cases for the urban heat island effect. However, the outskirts or nodes of development of the city show elevated temperatures than the core areas of the city, exhibiting the heat island effect,” said Parishwad.
 
 Lower temperature in the core areas — like Peth areas and Pune cantonment — is a result of the ‘vernacular city pattern’ observed here. This pattern plays an important role in dissipating heat by obstructing and circulating winds. “Also, the building materials used in the core city are stone and other natural materials, instead of concrete and asphalt. These materials have thermal properties which absorb and radiate very less heat,” said Parishwad.
 
 The analysis also found that the average land surface temperature over built-up city areas has increased by 3.9 degrees C in April 2016 in comparison to April 2001. The rise in the average land surface temperature over Pune’s barren land during this period has been around 2.9 degrees C, around 1.3 degrees C over city’s water bodies and 1.45 degree C over its sparse vegetation.
 
