RANCHI:  , these days,   in the   of the state   with them. 

 These women, the   (friends of the internet), have taken up the task of   among the villagers, even though they are illiterate, to make the Digital India a success. Around 170 of them have trained 1.45 lakh individuals including 90,000 women of 514 villages since last year.
 
 The digital literacy programme for rural Jharkhand under the mission 2020- Lakhpati kisan: smart villages programme, is a joint initiative of the Collectives for Integrated Livelihood Initiatives (CINI) of Tata Trusts and Google India where efforts are made to equip the villagers to use internet facilities and leverage its benefits towards their own empowerment.
 
 In an event organised by the Tata trust and rural development department on Thursday, the internet saathis were felicitated. Speaking about the impact of the initiative, Md. Moazzam, Coordinator, CINI, said, "This is a first-of-its-kind intervention in digital literacy towards enhancing the overall quality of life of tribal communities, which is the goal under the Mission 2020 programme. 'Internet Saathi' has helped address the digital gender disparity in the rural areas of the state by facilitating digital literacy among rural women and making them aware about the benefits of the Internet."
 
 Under the program, training is provided to women master-trainers, identified from their self help groups and women's federations. These master-trainers teach the women to make use of the internet to pay school fees, learn about the various farming techniques, payment of utility bills, etc. More than 20 village-level 'soochna divas' events were held to create awareness among tribal villagers about the various possibilities available on the internet in terms of agriculture, career, government schemes, products made from online information, passport photography, etc. Keeping up with the current emphasis on moving towards a cashless economy, the internet saathis are also trained to transact successfully using digital payments. 
 
 
