Nagpur: Statistics maintained by the RST Regional   Hospital (RCH) show the incidence of head and neck cancers rising dramatically in the city. Of all the cancer cases in 2012, 18.33% patients had head and  . By 2016, the number of such patients had risen to 27.27%.

 RST is now calling the city the world capital of head and neck cancer, with one third of such cancer patients registered last year in the city suffering from oral cancer.
 
 RST assistant director and head and neck cancer department head Dr SG Sapre said, “In 2012, RST treated 2,870 cancer patients, which increased to 3,247 patients in 2015. Keeping the statistics in mind, RST, in collaboration with Indian Medical Association (IMA), is organizing a public awareness program on July 27 from 9am, which is the world head and neck cancer foundation day.”
 
 Cancer Relief Society (CRS) joint secretary Dr Ramkrishna Chhangani said, “RST has completed 43 years of service to the poor from Vidarbha and adjoining states. In coming years, our aim is to make sure no poor is deprived of free cancer treatment.”
 
 CRS secretary Ashok Kriplani said, “With the help of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, RCH has treated more than 5,000 cases free of cost in 2016, while 12,890 cases have been treated since 2012 till date.”
 
 Dr Chhangani also said, “Under the guidance of RCH joint director Dr BK Sharma, RST began the department of head and neck onco surgery in 1984.” Sharma is the first person to operate on a head and neck cancer patient at RCH. After running the department alone for six years, he was later joined by ENT surgeon Dr Madan Kapre and Sapre.
 
 Sharma said, “Last year, RST conducted more than 900 major and minor head and neck onco surgeries. From 2011 till date, total 3,405 such surgeries have been performed. Throughout the journey, the department has grown to its peak with the support of many head and neck onco surgeons.”
 
 Sharma, along with Kapre, Sapre, Dr Sanjeev Golhar, Dr Waqar Hasan, Dr Avinash Deshmukh, Dr RB Deshmukh, Dr MM Mahore, Dr Mukund Bhide, Dr Sandeep Agrawal, and Dr Ashish Chikhale will be felicitated on the occasion for their valuable service to RST.
 
 
