PANAJI: In a meeting held recently, members of   ( ) urged South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar to seek the central bureau of civil aviation security’s nod to make the multi-level car parking facility, which has been lying unused for over three years, at Dabolim airport, operational. 

 During the interaction facilitated by GCCI’s  , a recommendation was also given for authorities to develop a logistics hub near Mopa. Concerns over the collapsed Portuguese-era Borim bridge were also aired.
 
 “The MP was asked to ensure that a technical audit of all Portuguese-era bridges and culverts in Goa was conducted by a committee of experts to ascertain their structural stability,” chairman of GCCI’s Logistics Committee Chandrakant Gawas said.
 
 Gawas later called on CM Laxmikant Parsekar and requested him to direct the concerned authorities to urgently remove the underwater debris of the collapsed Borim bridge.
 
 Pointing out that the Captain of Ports had already warned that there should be no traffic in the river, during low tide, Gawas said, “Any delay in clearing the debris and the overhanging part may cause may bring traffic in the river to a complete stop.”
 
 The committee members also voiced their concerns over the benefits of declaring six of Goa’s rivers as national waterways under the National Waterways Act. According to GCCI, Sawaikar attempted to assuage the members’ apprehensions and assured them that he would take up Goa’s concerns with the Union government and work to clear up impediments that exist in the execution of the project as it was a prestigious proposal.
 
 Committee members also sought information on the Sagarmala Project and the benefits it would bring to Goa. The other issues that came up for discussion included the development plan for Mormugao Port, completion schedule of the four-lane highway from Patradevi to Canacona, the status of doubling of railway track from Vasco to Londa and the revival of the feeder service from Mormugao Port Trust to   Port Trust in Mumbai.
 
