BENGALURU: Reiterating that India is not interested in buying any aircraft if the firm selling it cannot be a  , defence minister   said on Tuesday that issues pertaining to clearances — for transfer of technology and other offset-related clauses — are the priority of the firms offering their product.

 Speaking specifically about US firms offering aircraft for the single-engine fighter sought by the Indian Air Force (IAF), he said: “I don’t think they would have made the offer if they didn’t have clearances to give us what we need. That is their problem even if there are issues, although I’ve not heard of any. And, so far as India is concerned, we are very clear about buying from a strategic partner. We don’t want to just buy the aircraft.”
 
 He was answering a specific question about US President Donald Trump being critical of American firms setting up manufacturing units outside of the US. Lockheed Martin, which makes the F-16, and Boeing, which makes the F/A 18 Super Hornet, have both offered to move their units to India. “I think any further questions on this matter need to be asked to the companies,” Parrikar said.
 
 LCA-Navy has full support
 
 Notwithstanding the Indian Navy’s rejection of the LCA-Navy, Parrikar allayed fears of the project being shut down. “The Navy is supporting the project. In fact, the second line of LCA production, which was approved at a cost of Rs 1,359 crore, will have the Navy’s contribution too.”
 
 The Navy will be contributing 25% of the cost, while the IAF will contribute another 25% and HAL will put in the remaining 50%, as TOI had reported earlier. At present, HAL can make eight aircraft a year and this line, once functional, will be able to make eight more per year.
 
 However, this line will become the third line for LCA, with HAL already having converted its old Kiran hangar to expedite production, given the demand. The clearance for the line Parrikar spoke about got the clearance of the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) only last week.
 
 “It is wrong to say the Navy does not support the LCA ...You are being misinformed by an internal lobby,” he said.
 
 Conceding that the fifth-generation fighter aircraft (FGFA) India is developing with Russia has some unresolved issues, Parrikar said: “A small team has been created to deal with these issues (pertaining to manufacturing, how exports will be done, other approvals and so on) and we are confident of resolving them.”
 
