Visakhapatnam: If trials conducted by the authorities yield desired results, commercially viable fruits will be cultivated in Visakhapatnam. 

 Plants of some fruits such as pears, kiwi, almond, cherries, peach and Japanese persimmon are being tried on a pilot basis in Visakhapatnam agency by the horticulture departments. 
 
 Confirming this to TOI, G Prabhakara Rao, assistant director of department of horticulture for Paderu division in Visakhapatnam district, said they planted the saplings of pears, cherries and almonds on a trail basis at the Padmapuram Gardens in Araku Valley recently. 
 
 “Earlier, we planted apples and we were successful. For these fruits, we would have to wait two years to get the results. We believe that the climatic condition in Visakha agency is viable for these fruits, which are commercially sold across the globe and will be economically helpful to the tribals living there,” said Prabhakara Rao.
 
 He said they were taking technical help from Shimla-based Dharti Dhan Agro Farms, which are experts in organic farming and apple cultivation.
 
 Speaking to TOI from Shimla, Dharti Dhan’s head and apple grower V Purushothama Rao said Visakhapatnam agency is 100% viable for pears, kiwi, peach and Japanese persimmon, but not food for cherry. Purushothama Rao said the horticulture department could have planted the saplings in a bigger area for trail basis. 
 
 “Vizag agency has the potential for growing commercially viable fruits like apple, kiwi and pears but the authorities concerned are not showing much interest in it. I am personally interested in taking up pilot projects in Vizag agency, but I need at least one acre of land,” Purushothama Rao said.
 
 Purushothama Rao further said there is an urgent need to cultivate fruits in Vizag agency to help tribals. The state would also earn recognition across the globe from these fruits, which contribute a big share in the economic development of countries like Australia, New Zealand and China, he said.
 
 FRUITY PUNCH
 
 Persimmons are popular autumn fruit in Japan. They are bright orange in colour
 
 Pear is an edible fruit. The pear needs soil that is neither too dry nor too wet. It grows in humid climate
 
 The Kiwi is native of South China. It is rich in vitamin C and K
 
 Peaches are also called stone fruits. They are yellow or orange in colour. They taste sweet and sticky
 
 
