PATNA: The ongoing tussle between   (PU) and   (PWC) over online admission to various vocational, graduation and post-graduation courses has left many applicants confused. Both PU and   have uploaded application forms on their respective websites, making it difficult for the students to decide which way to go.
 
  Despite being a constituent unit of PU, PWC has decided not to join the single window system prescribed by the university for online admission of students to different courses this year.
  
  Monica Kumari, who wants to pursue bachelor of mass communication from PWC, said, “I don’t know which form is valid. I really want to get admission in this college. While some have suggested me to follow the single window system introduced by the PU, the others are of the opinion that following the college online portal is the right move,” she said.
  
  Like Monica, many girls are equally confused. “If I sit silent, time will run out for me. Hence, I have decided to apply online on the websites of both PU and PWC,” said Shailey Gupta, a BA (political science) aspirant.
  
  “The problem is between the college and the university authorities. They should clear the confusion. Innocent applicants like us should not be made scapegoats. Many of my friends have applied on the websites of both PU and PWC, but I would like to wait and watch,” said Roshni Sinha, another aspirant.
  
  PWC principal Sister   A.C. said except BEd, students can apply online for all other courses on the college website. “More than 700 students have already applied for various courses. We conduct our own entrance exams and interviews to select the candidates,” the principal added.
  
  Last year, the college had released application forms for vocational courses only, while forms for regular courses were issued by the university. However, in a surprise move, the PWC administration invited online applications for both regular and vocational courses on March 30 this year.
  
  PU vice-chancellor Sudhir Kumar Shrivastav said in case of any confusion, students can check the website of the university and apply for the course of their choice in any constituent college of the university. “The last date for submission of online applications is May 2,” the VC added.
