NEW DELHI: The government wants   to mention the quantity of each   item in their menu – in grams or number of pieces - so that consumers can decide how many plates will be enough for them.

 Consumer affairs minister   said the advisory on this will be issued after holding consultation with their representatives and other stake holders.
  
 Paswan said the main objective this move is to check  . The minister had first talked about this proposal in January when he had mooted the idea that every hotel or restaurant should also introduce half plate norm.
 
 “We will seek suggestions and feedback from the hotel and stakeholders to find a way out. We will not make it binding on them and we don’t want a law to regulate such issues. Our focus is to make consumers more aware and that will create pressure on the industry to find solution,” Paswan told TOI. He said similar exercise against dual MRP of bottled water and service charge levied by hotels and restaurants have borne fruit in the recent months.
 
 His remarks came nearly a fortnight after Modi expressed concern over   in the country. “This idea has come out of my personal experience. When we go out for eating, we see a lot of food being wasted. There are people in our country who do not get food,” the minister told reporters. He cited how there are numerous example of one plate or serving is actually enough for 3-4 persons.
 
 Responding to whether government wants any uniformity about the quantity across all hotels and restaurants, Paswan said they don’t expect such practice since every eatery has its own norms. “We want them to clearly spell out the quantity. We are not getting into pricing issue at all,” he added.
  
 Asked whether the government wanted to introduce uniformity in the amount of food served in a portion, he said, "We just want them to specify and mention (in the menu card) that how much they would serve in a portion."
 Meanwhile, consumers have come out with suggestions such as every hotel and restaurant should offer preparations in “half plate” and also introduce “kids menu”.
 
