GHAZIABAD: In an attempt to bridge the gap between residents of gated colonies and their domestic helps, the   district administration conducted a meeting with the Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs) of several housing societies in the district on Sunday.

 The meeting, which included in-depth discussions over the process of hiring domestic helps and ensuring their welfare, was conducted under the aegis of  , a Delhi-based NGO campaigning against human trafficking, for child rights and for empowerment of women. Ghaziabad district magistrate   and senior officials from the administration and the police were also present. More than ten housing society RWAs participated in the discussion.
 
 Referring to the recent conflict between domestic helps and residents in Mahagun Moderne housing society, Noida, the officials present in the meeting stressed that the incident took place due to mismanagement of the procedure of hiring people. The   said residents have to very careful while hiring people from placement agencies, as most of the agencies were dubious in nature and deducted part of the workers’ wages.
 
 Officials also asked RWAs to keep an eye on the employment of underage children as domestic workers, and to also flag such issues if they come to their notice. “In a situation like this, residents can become an unwitting partner in crime. Everyone must do their part to spread awareness and raise these issues,” Ministhy said.
 
 The district administration and Shakti Vahini members also recommended that RWAs display short messages regarding child labour in the   office premises, along with emergency helpline numbers. They are now planning to formulate a set of guidelines to be followed by residents while hiring domestic servants. “A hired domestic help may be part of various issues like human trafficking, criminal conspiracy, forced labour and even sexual abuse. Proper verification and timely probing from the employers’ part can avoid unseen consequences or even save lives,” said Ministhy S. According to the administration, around 32 domestic workers have died in the past year under mysterious circumstances in the district, like alleged suicides by jumping off society buildings.
 
 The officials also expressed that there were around an 32 deaths of domestic helps in the district which happen under mysterious circumstances like alleged suicides by falling off buildings. 
 
 The DM also urged RWAs to form committees within the society to resolve disputes regarding domestic servants, so that the issue is resolved amicably and does not lead to full-blown conflicts.
 
 Citing the fact that there might be various forces at play behind a domestic maid hired from unscrupulous agencies, officials once again stressed on verification of identity, addresses and other details of the person. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Rishi Kant, a representative of Shakti Vahini, said maids are mostly sourced from far-flung areas of Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar and the north-east. “They either come of their own wish in search of work or are trafficked by flesh traders. Many placement agencies running in the guise of NGOs and registered societies have been involved in such crimes. Residents must be aware about the people they employ in their homes,”   said.
 
 Kant further said that at times children aged under 14 years or the ones aged between 14-18 years are employed as a cheaper alternatives, and there have been instances of children employed in high-rise societies. “The RWAs are responsible bodies and their actions can save lives,” Kant said.
 
 The district administration is also considering conducting registration camps for domestic helps, so that they can benefit from various schemes of the government. It is also set to conduct an in-depth discussion on human trafficking and making Ghaziabad a beggar free district.
 
 Lipika Bhushan, a member of the ATS Advantage society RWA, Indirapuram, said the initiative is a great effort by the administration as the issues are being discussed out in the open. “These unfair practices happen right in front of our eyes but people do not not realise implications as they have already become used to with it. Spreading awareness will definitely have some impact,” Bhushan said.
 
