CHARMINAR: Believe it or not, many families in the   survive on a measly income of   . And in a number of families the income earners are women.
Added to this meagre daily income is the heavy burden of debts incurred on medical bills due to health issues. This has affected the education of children in many families in Old City.
 
 These startling facts came out during a house-to-house survey conducted by a non-governmental organisation,  . The report was released on Tuesday.
 
 “In almost 85 per cent of families surveyed, women members not only took care of the household chores but also earned bread by making a living on an earning of `50 to `60 a day,“ Helping Hand Foundation founder   said.
 
 Ironically, a large section of women are abandoned by their husbands due to their illness. These women are either dependent on their parents or employed in me nial jobs earning not more than `60 a day.
 
 The survey began on May 2 and concluded on May 20, covering 5,485 families spread over 88 localities in Old City. It focussed on the health and socio-economic problems of the principal minority community living in the Old City and other urban slums of Hyderabad.
 
 Askari said 12 per cent women were found to be working as domestic help and 78 per cent involved in stitching, sari and bangle works and artificial jewellery. Ten per cent of women were involved in other works. About 80 per cent of men were daily wage earners. The rest 20 per cent earned money by selling fruits and vegetables.
 
 He said 22 per cent of the respondents did not posses white ration cards, a prerequisite to access various health-related and other welfare schemes of the state government. A whopping 87 per cent households surveyed have one or more than one chronic disease or disability.
 
 Health problems like hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, disability due to traumainjury, blindness, strokeparalysis, joint and back pain, and kidney related problems are common.
 
 In all 86 per cent of the respondents have stated that they do not get proper attention and care in government hospitals. A majority of people prefer treatment in private hospitals, he said.
 
