MUMBAI: The 28-year-old pregnant woman whose plea to abort her 27-week   was turned down by the   on Monday is worried about history repeating itself in her home. Her younger brother has such neurological problems that he has been bedridden since birth. “I used to carry him to the bathroom and toilet till I got married three years back. I now fear me and my husband will have to live the same life my parents have led,“ she told TOI.

 Her parents' lives have dictated by their son who has “80% disability .“ Her 60-year old father, who works as a pe on, said, “My family has ne ver enjoyed life for a day . Du ring Diwali, we fear the so und of firecrackers will trig ger seizures in my 27-year-old son. During the night, we have to wake up every few hours to check if he is seizing. During the day , we turn him over in the bed or prop him on a chair every two hours so his muscles don't get stiff.“ Tears welled up in his eyes as he said he didn't want his daugh ter to undergo the same trials he has been through.
 
 The woman's 31-year-old husband is upset. “We come from a humble background.Now that the   has directed us to not terminate the pregnancy , will the government step in to take care of the child's needs?“ Was a thought spared to consider what if the child is born and needs round-theclock care, asked the woman. The young couple is also upset with the lack of information. “I was never told one needs to undergo an anomaly scan before the 18th week. Every time I went to the municipal hospital, a different doctor would see me,“ she said, showing the file with details of her visits to the BMC maternity home near   railway station.
 
 When she was admitted to the maternity home on March 2 with abdominal pain, she had no idea her foetus had problems. “They kept me overnight and asked me to return on March 4 for a sonography ,“ said the graduate who left her job due to morning sickness.She was told her child's spinal cord wasn't continuous and there was swelling in the head.
 
 “There was no mention of liquid buildup in the brain or degree of malformation,“ she said, adding she was merely asked to return on March 30. The couple on its own went to the family doctor who explained the extent of the problem. They plan to visit the maternity home as scheduled. They haven't yet got a copy of the SC order.“Soon as I get it, I will petition the PM on his app,“ she said.
 
 
