KENDRAPADA: More than two decades ago, the government had planned to rehabilitate all the 571 families of  's  , hit by sea erosion, to  . Cut to 2017, they are still where they were, thanks to the sluggish pace of the  . 

 "With monsoon having announced its arrival, the process of relocating the villagers of Satabhaya to Bagapatia has become an uphill task. Therefore, the residents are preparing to face the onslaught of the raging sea in the rainy season," said Suchitra Panda, a member of the Panchayat Samiti of Satabhaya.
 
 The sea has crept almost three km into Satabhaya over the last two decades. "This village is one of the state's worst affected by sea erosion. The situation along the 12 kilometre Satabhaya has deteriorated in the last decade. The sea has washed away several houses and engulfed vast tracts of land belonging to villagers," said Sudrashan Rout of Satabhaya.
 
 Special relief commissioner Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra had visited the rehabilitation colony at Bagapatia on May 18 and directed the officials to expedite the work before June 30. "But the officials committed gross negligence towards the villagers of Satabhaya by not shifting them to a safer place by June-end," added Rout. 
 
 "We had allotted 10 decimal of land to each family for constructing their house. As per the government rehabilitation work so far, 150 families built their pucca houses and around 200 families thatched houses over 188 acre of land at the rehabilitation colony in Bagapatia. Other families are still building their houses. All the 571 families got 1.5 lakh each to build their houses from the government under the Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana and chief minister's relief fund. We have already constructed a school, an anganwadi centre, a gram panchayat office and a cyclone shelter in Bagapatia. The rehabilitation work will be completed by the end of this year," said Khirod Behera, the nodal officer of Satabhaya Rehabilitation Project and the tehsildar of Rajnagar. 
 
 The state government had in 1992 decided to move the villagers of Satabhaya to a safer place. 
 
