As Kerala embarks on another year with renewed hopes, aspirations and optimism, we catch up with a few personalities from various walks of life to know their expectations for the year ahead:

 
 
 
 I hope the novels will return to prime with more writers coming up with fantastic fictions
 
 Malayalam literature has been showing remarkable growth over the past few years. I wish this graph grows vertically and bestow us with greater works. We are seeing more number of writers coming up with excellent short stories. Let this continue and at the same time I hope the novels will return to prime with more writers coming up with fantastic fictions. I hope in this year, we would be able to express ourselves freely without any curbs.
 
 
 
 
 Dance can help break barriers between nations and foster love 
 
 This would be a year in which, I would be officially representing Kerala to present Mohiniyattam in the Far East for the Indian High Commission. Hence we will be getting a chance to introduce our art form to other cultures and give it a global visibility. This might also help us to break the barriers through art. I am also adding a lot of elements from other culture in Mohiniyattam without tampering its ethnicity. This cultural exchange will bring in more conversations and thus will help us to create understanding between nations and also nurture compassion in the minds of people. 
 
 
 
 
 
 I dream of a conducive atmosphere for women in the IT industry
 
 I see very few women in top positions across various industries in Kerala including media. I wish there is greater female representation at senior levels in corporate sectors. Let 2017 open up a path for women so that they have equal space in boardrooms on par with men. Also, I dream of a conducive atmosphere for women in IT industries, encouraging them to come back after maternity.
 
 
 
 
 I am hopeful of a glorious year for Malayalam cinema
 
 The year 2016 with its movies reminded us of the golden days of Malayalam cinema of the 80s. The audience completely shunned piracy and opted to watch movies in theatres. I hope this trend will continue in 2017 as well. However, the tussle between producers and theatre owners was a setback. I wish, everybody understands that cinema is not just a business but an art too. If that happens, we can expect another glorious season in Malayalam cinema with many trend-setting films. 
 
 
 
  
 Fashion choreographer Street fashion could become popular in 2017
 
 Our State, especially Kochi is becoming a place to reckon with when it comes to fashion. 2017 will see a huge boom in fashion. Our girls and boys have been making it big in the national fashion scene and reputed fashion pageant organisers are eyeing Kerala. Big fashion designers have started coming to Kerala and the numbers would go up in 2017. Our youngsters are attuned to the fashion trends and I foresee street fashion becoming popular in Kochi, soon. Brides will increasingly opt for designer or custom made outfits, and by 2017 end at least 70% of our youngsters will be opting for custom made attire for special occasions.
 
 
 
 
 I wish children in Kerala understand the aesthetics of life through art
 
 Art plays an integral role in the formation and reformation of the society. Hence, I think art should be introduced to every child by implementing it in the curriculum. From childhood, they should get a chance to know what aesthetics is. This will help children to have a sense of appreciation and thus the coming generations will be able to nurture compassion, benevolence and empathy. This will make the world a better place. Also in Kerala’s art scenario, we need more patrons to sustain in the universal art world. So it is important to have experts in every field in the form of curators and researchers who take the subject to serious studies not just those who hog the limelight.
 
 
 
 
 Youngsters’ dreams to make it big in football will come true
 
  has a great year to look forward to, with matches like Under 17 World Cup having one of its venues in Kochi. From the perspective of players, the upcoming year will offer abundant opportunities to watch games of international level players and learn from them. The junior players will also get to understand the professional attitude required to reach heights, through such tournaments. Several football academies are coming up and it would give wings to the dreams of several youngsters to learn many techniques and grasp the polished basics of football.
 
 
 
 
 I hope people are not pushed to express their pride for nation 
 
 From the tag ‘you are under scrutiny’ I wish we could be able to live in a world without fear. Freedom should not be related just to the function that is held on August 15 but it should be for all species. We need a freedom that can be enjoyed by every living being in this universe. I hope the pride about a nation should not be expressed through stringent rules but it should be realised from within. Let everyone understand the idea of a border-less world and no land is another’s enemy. 
 
 
