MUMBAI: Demonetisation, Prime Minister  's pet peeve, threatens to fracture the city's nexus between politicians and moneybags ahead of the BMC elections, said analysts.

 As city gears up for the polls, corporators, especially those occupying Opposition benches, have begun to feel the heat of demonetisation.“No notes, no votes is the bottom-line of the polls,“ said a Congress veteran, referring sarcastically to the politics of patronage.
 
 According to the political grapevine, the poll expenditure is likely to be anywhere between Rs 40 lakh to Rs 50 lakh per ward, irrespective of the EC's limit of Rs five lakh.Just how to meet the expenditure is the worry nagging non-saffron parties. “A candidate who doesn't have over Rs 25 lakh in his pocket at the time of filing nomination papers is in the danger zone,“ said a Shiv Sena functionary .
 
 There is consensus in the political establishment that time-tested sources of funds are fast drying up. “Fund-raising has become a hair-raising task,“ said a Sena MLA.The construction sector is wary of polls following recent crackdown on developers, it is learnt.
 
 “Builders know they are on Centre's radar. The mercantile class too is down,“ said MNS corporator Sandeep Deshpande. “For the last three days I have been visiting a local builder. But he keeps sho wing me the door,“ sighed a corporator from western suburbs. Speaking on condition of anonymity , he said, “The same gentleman was liberal with funds in 2012.“
 
 Unfazed, city netas are quick to learn new techniques to keep the cash flow intact. “A merchant or builder can make cheque payments to a charitable body which, after keeping a little portion for itself, can fork out the remainder sum to the candidate,“ said a political activist. “A candidate can accept cheques from friends or relatives too as loan,“ he added.
 
 Observers say Sena may fall back upon ganesha-govinda organisations and charitable mandals it has nurtured over the decades. But many think restriction on withdrawal of cash is a deterrent.“The Rs 24,000 per week cap can ruin calculations,“ said the Sena MLA.
 
 Paying in kind is another way of coping. For instance, a mandap decorator can seek a favour from the candidate. A folk singer recently performed in a ward in western suburbs.Instead of cash payment, the corporator footed the acoustics bill for the vocalist's subsequent concerts in the ward.
 
 The non-BJP parties--the Sena, Congress, NCP, MNS, SP and RPI--have planned cost-cutting measures for the polls, it is said. Said  , president of Mumbai regional Congress committee, “We will tap the social networking media and language papers to mobilise supporters. No party funds will be given to our candidates.“
 
 On the sunny side, paucity of funds has prompted politicians to fall back on homespun methods of wooing voters. “We will soon start a mass contact drive. Also, door to door campaign and square meetings will help,“ said Deshpande.
 
 Also, netas have started trying cashless transactions. Sena man Pandurang Sakpal pays the tea stall next to his `shakha' by cheques. “ All payments will be made through cheques by our candidates,“ Sakpal said.
 
 
