LUCKNOW: Her eyes open wider through the wrinkles on her face and her flicker of a voice turns into a flame as she speaks about the freedom struggle she witnessed and took part in. Packed in Swaroop Kumari Bakshi’s 97 years are ages of pre and post-Independence India, in both of which she played a part as a voter,   and minister. She answered Gandhi ji’s call to women to contribute in their own way to the Swaraj Movement and after 1947, first did her bit as an author promoting writing by women and then as a public representative in the House, for four consecutive terms. She quit politics but continued with social work and interaction with people.

 At the age of 10, Bakshi was inspired by the words of Jawaharlal   and actions of Mahatma Gandhi and by 21 she was completely involved in the freedom struggle. From a writer to academician, a consecutive four-time MLA of the Lucknow East constituency and finally a state cabinet minister, Bakshi adhered to the ‘karo ya maro (do or die)’maxim. 
 
 As Lucknow goes to polls, popularly known as Bakshi Didi, spoke to Times of India and presented the perspective of an Indian who has seen and been the nation’s history and saw all the elections held after independence. Holding herself firm, she sits under the many black-and-white photographs of herself with Indira Gandhi, Rajeev Gandhi and other noted politicians in the drawing room of the old but architecturally splendid haveli called Raj Bhawan. Talking about her many endeavours within and without mainstream politics, the frail voice gets louder suddenly . 
 
 With a twinkle in her eyes, she narrates, “Nehru Ji was speaking while Gandhi ji was on ‘maun vrat’ (fast of silence) that day and cutting thread from his charkha on the banks of Ravi river during Congress’s session in 1929. Nehru ji said with his blood he had written to the Viceroy for ‘poorna swaraj’ (full independence) and nothing short. I remember it all well. Some time later, in another gathering, Gandhi ji exhorted all women to join the independence struggle serving as a reservoir of power. His words have stayed with me,” she said. 
 
 Later, lost completely in the memories, Bakshi recalls getting cane charged while protesting the Simon Commission and also when she led an underground movement of women and students and how both times she had a narrow escape from death. She was later sent to jail for 22 days for her ‘sedition’ activities. “I never hoped I would come out alive. But I wanted to die for the country,” she said.
 
 A writer by choice, with 36 books published, Bakshi is an academician who upgraded the Nari Shiksha Niketan from school to a degree college. She confessed it was on persuasion of state minister Shiela Kaul and Premwati Tiwari that she entered politics. Contesting for the Lucknow east seat, her consistent efforts to reach voters in times of trouble and otherwise, making rounds of the constituency on foot and forging personal bond with people made her the invincible MLA for four consecutive terms—1974, 1977, 1980 and 1985.
 
 “The fifth time, when I lost, the women writers’s association was more than ecstatic to get me back among them. But I never stopped working on field,” she said
 
 Even after her political stint ended, she continued to make rounds of polling booths, helping with lists and logistics in every  , rain or shine. “In 2012, Begum Hamida Hamibullah and my mother had both gone to the polling booths to help while casting their vote in 2014. She will be voting this time too,” said Bakshi’s daughter Usha, who is helping her with an ongoing compilation of her poetic work on the great souls of India. “Everyone agrees that none before or after her had worked for the constituency the way she did,” added Usha.
 
 
