MUMBAI: For a month during Ramzan, Irfan Shaikh would head towards Thane Central Jail after evening prayers. He would enter the compound where people wait to get their names registered, so they can meet an incarcerated family member. Walking past rows of squatting women and kids, Shaikh would step into the jail’s store and grab samosas and pav before the stock ran out. Samosas are sold only during Ramzan at the store which retails products made exclusively by convicts. Shaikh is one of many regular customers who have helped the jail earn Rs 1.33 crore in 2016-17. 

 Housed in an 18th century Portuguese fort, the jail has 3,200 inmates, 197 of who are convicts. Those sentenced to rigorous imprisonment have to work and are assigned tasks according to their interests and abilities. Every morning, 70 convicts troop into the ‘factory’, a two-storey structure inside the compound where   make everything from   to  . The furniture and   sections have earned maximum   in the past year. 
 
 “Our goodies are cheaper than those sold outside,” says the female instructor who supervises an all-male team. “Our pineapple and chocolate cakes are very popular. But orders have to be placed in advance so that the inmates get sufficient time to bake,” she says. Wooden chairs made by the furniture section are in great demand in government offices, according to jail superintendent Nitin Vayachal. “The wood is genuine and the furniture will last for several years,” says Vayachal. The powerloom unit in the factory makes cloth for hospitals and uniforms. “The uniforms are largely for use inside the  ,” admits Vayachal, “but the laundry section gets clients from across the neighbourhood.” A couple of judges get their clothes stitched from the tailoring section too. 
 
 The prison department pays a meagre Rs55 per day for skilled labour, Rs50 for semi-skilled labour and Rs45 for unskilled labour. The convicts have to work for eight hours on weekdays and can save their income to buy things for themselves. They are eventually given a certificate to help them find employment once released from prison. 
 
 Kiran Bedi, the first inspector-general of Tihar Jail, had changed the face of the dungeon-like jail. One change she made at Tihar, which is the largest prison complex in India, was assigning constructive activities which endowed inmates with confidence and dignity. “I wrote a book on how it’s always possible to bring about a transformation,” Bedi, the current governor of Puducherry, told TOI.
 
