NEW DELHI: Pulling up East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Friday for not disposing of garbage for days, National Green Tribunal ( ) asked the corporation why it had failed to   the funds allotted for paying sanitation workers. 

 Terming it “ill-planning”, NGT asked for details on EDMC’s income and both planned and non-plan expenditure, and the money given to it by the Delhi government to determine the reason for the delay in payment of  . 
 
 The sanitation workers at EDMC went on strike on January 5 demanding the salaries for November and December. Since 2015, they have gone on strike five times over the same issue. The strike is not fully over, with some unions demanding a permanent solution. “A final call will be taken on Monday,” said Sanjay Gahlot, president of MCD Swachata Karmchari Union. United Front of MCD Employees Associations is mobilising employees for a mega protest at Civic Center on January 18. 
 
 “Why don’t you apply your (EDMC) mind before doing things? Why didn’t you protect the money allotted to you for payment of salaries? Why don’t you apply your common sense that if you don’t pay salaries, your work will get affected? Your problem is that your officers complicate things instead of solving them. You can’t make people suffer because of your ill-planning,” a bench headed by the NGT chairperson, Justice Swatanter Kumar, said. 
 
 The bench also asked   (CPCB) and Delhi Pollution Control Committee to explain what action they have taken to deal with municipal solid waste in Delhi and whether any action has been taken against the violators.
 
 “As a corporation, you have done nothing. You have not cleaned Delhi. Sewage is flowing in the drains, there is no waste management plan and rivers are being polluted every day. Why should you have such a large number of employees if they don’t work? How many are ghost employees? Have you carried out any study for rationalisation of staff? Tell your officers not to waste energy on fictitious documents,” the bench said.
 
 The green panel made it clear that it was “entirely dissatisfied” with the corporations, Delhi Development Authority, CPCB and other stakeholders in cleaning Delhi as “nobody has provided appropriate help”. NGT directed the corporations to submit data on total generation of waste in the city and the methodology adopted for collection, segregation and disposal of garbage. The case will come up again on January 17.
 
 
