LUCKNOW: Following a recent ragging incident at the   , Kanpur (IIT-K), in which first-year students alleged being bullied, abused and forced to do some “formidable tasks“ by a group of senior students, a senior professor at IIT-K has expressed on public platform his opinion on how ragging is considered a `part of IIT-K culture'.The panel constituted by IIT-K to probe the allegations found students guilty and has recommended stringent action against them.

 On insideiitk.blogspot.in--meant primarily for the IIT-K community and talks about happenings on the campus--Dheeraj Sanghi, faculty of computer science engineering wrote in a blog in a day and age when there is consensus in society against ragging saying there are better ways for introduction,  's student body is struck in 20th century beliefs.
 
 Sanghi said it is just not the ragging incident which is odd but also the widespread support this activity enjoys and the way it is being justified anonymously on the IITK Confessions page on Facebook saying the act is neither ragging nor sexual harassment. Picking up random justifications from IITK Confessions page, Sanghi wrote, students believe this is part of `IITK culture' and that professors won't understand the value of culture anyway . Therefore, students feel, a probe panel should not have investigated the matter, more so, when majority of them are professors in the committee, says Sanghi.
 
 The second justification given by seniors (second-year students) is that they are doing a great favour to first-year students by doing to them what they don't enjoy but has to be done. Sanghi said seniors claim this will initiate the freshers into adulthood; they will become more mature, more confident. “By reading these confessions, it seems sexual harassment is a magic that converts instantly a shy villager into a confident Kanpuriya,'' Sanghi wrote. Seniors too feel this is the price juniors have to pay for all the help they will give them in the next three years of their stay at IIT-K, and even after graduation. Many students confessed that such abusive acts are completely voluntary. They claim, those feeling uncomfortable may leave as after all it was for their own good, and that consensual acts can't be deemed ragging or harassment, said Sanghi.
 
 The blog also highlight ed arguments by senior students why no action can be taken against them even if it is a case of ragging--because it is impossible to get any proof of anyone's involvement as it has been going on for several years, and since student guides (Counselling Service) are involved.
 
 Strongly recommending authorities to terminate the guilty , Sanghi wrote, “The only point I agree with is that innocent students must not be punished, particularly if the punishment is removal from IITK.''
 
