AJMER: Holding a camera and clicking pictures was a distant dream for these young kids. But now this dream has become a reality, courtesy a group of Italians who are   from Pushkar. The group wanted that these students should learn to capture not only happy moments but also nature and their community traditions. Interestingly, the Italian ambassador to India   will distribute about 60 cameras to these students on February 24 in Pushkar.

 Seema, a 10-year-old girl of   near Pushkar had never seen a camera and when she clicked a photo, her happiness knew no bounds. She felt so excited that she wanted to keep that picture with her. Other children from different schools and mostly from economically weak background too shared Seema’s feelings.
 
 The aim of this Italian group is to bring a smile on children’s faces. “They learn a new perspective of life while capturing shots,” said Elisabetta Masini, psychologist and a photographer.
 
 He said that they selected students, mostly girls, without discrimination of caste, creed, color or religion. “The goal of this training is that children should learn to capture their tradition and understand what is important in life,” added Elisabetta.
 
 The group known as   (AFLIN) is happy to see smiling children. “All cameras are donated by Italian citizens and most of them are new. Those who are old are in very good shape. These cameras vary - from common to expensive,” said Emanuela Sabbatini.
 
 She added that the organization will also publish a magazine that will include photographs of these children describing how they felt about their new exposure. These children will keep these cameras with them so that they understand the importance of capturing happiness.
 
 She also said the that Italian Ambassador to India will share this happiness with these children on the occasion of   in Pushkar. He will distribute cameras to children. “This is such a great movement for the team, specially when we see the smiling faces of these children,” said Emanuela.
 
