BENGALURU: Senior IPS officer Rupak Kumar Dutta, who recently missed out on being appointed   director, may be the next director general and inspector general of police (DG&IGP) of Karnataka after incumbent   retires by January-end. Dutta is a top contender if the government goes by the seniority criteria.

 But there is a rider: Dutta, a 1981 Karnataka-cadre officer who is now with the ministry of home affairs, has to get a clean chit in a case pending against him in the  . It is expected come up on Monday.
 
 The charges against Dutta pertain to his tenure in 2009 as ADGP (anti-corruption wing) in the  's office, when he pursued an LLB course from a Bengaluru college. He was accused of either forcing the college to give him the mandatory 70 per cent attendance or he was attending classes while he should have been on duty . Four months after the Karnataka High Court quashed the criminal case filed against him, an appeal was filed in the apex court by activist G Mallesh.
 
 Dutta was eligible to be Karnataka police chief in 2015 but was overlooked because he was a special director in the CBI and a strong contender for the director's post before he was transferred to the home ministry in December last year. Common Cause, an NGO, moved a petition in the Supreme Court, accusing the government of shifting Dutta to stop him from becoming CBI director. If selected, Dutta will be left with just eight months as he is set to retire in October this year. If he isn't chosen, Karnataka could create history with a woman officer becoming the top cop; senior IPS officer Neelamani N Raju is a strong contender after Dutta.
 
 A 1983-batch officer, she was on central deputation for 23 years before returning to Karnataka in 2016. Her husband Narasimha Raju, who retired as special secretary of chief minister Siddaramaiah, is now the state chief information commissioner.Neelamani is currently DGP (internal security division).
 
 Two others are in race for the top post-DGP H C Kishore Chandra and DGP M N Reddi.
 
 Siddaramaiah is keeping the cards close to his chest and is expected to take the final call only a day or two before Omprakash retires.
 
