KOLHAPUR: The shift of one of the first liquor shops located along the highway to a residential area has hit a hump.

 Residents from hockey stadium area in the B ward of the city have decided to protest against the shifting of a   in their locality. They have formally approached the excise department and the district collector’s office to shut the liquor shop claiming that the long queues outside the shop are creating trouble and it has become difficult for women and children to step outside after evening. 
 
 As per the officials of the excise department, after the Supreme Court's decision to shut the liquor shops located along 500 meter periphery of national and state highways, the shop in Sambhajinagar was shut. It was among 400-odd shops from the city that shut down after the apex court order. Its operator applied for shifting the shop to the hockey stadium area and the permission was granted on April 24. The operator was asked to shift after paying Rs 45 lakh as fee. 
 
 Amol Ganpule, a resident of the area, said they had filed a complaint with the authorities on May 8, a day after the shop was shifted to their locality. “The area is residential and an IT park is also located. The area gets crowded in the evening and the tipplers sit in the open space near the shop. It has become difficult for women and children to move out of houses as they feel insecure. Considering the inconvenience, we have written to various authorities to close the shop,” he said. 
 
 After the SC decision, around 100 shops have approached the district administration seeking permission to shift the location of their vends. So far, the administration has given the approval to around 9 shops for relocation. 
 
 As per the state government's Liquor Vendors Act, no liquor shop in the city should come up in the 50m periphery of educational institutions or religious centres. Also, no sign board should be displayed along the highways with the name of the shop as per the SC's order. 
 
 A Jain temple is located in the area and Shree Ashapuran Parshwanath Jain Shwetambar Murtipujak Sangh too has written to the authorities to shut the wine shop. The Jain association has also written to chief minister   stating that the shop has come up in violation of rules. The association claims that the shop has been granted permission without taking no-objection certificate from the residents. 
 
 Amrutbhai Shah, trustee of the temple, said, “Several rules have been violated during the shifting of the liquor shop. The shop lacks occupation certificate and does not have a licence to operate. Also, the shop is located not more than 50 metre away from the temple.”
 
 For issuing licence to start the new liquor shop or shift the shop to another location, a committee comprising the district administration officials, police authorities and excise department officials has been formed. The district authorities claim that if the permission is granted, then the application should have been scrutinised thoroughly. District collector   said, “I have not yet read the complaint made by the residents. The scrutiny will take place and if the shifting is in violation of the rules, necessary action will be taken.”
 
