NAGPUR: In what can be termed as a balancing act, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) financially strong candidates are bearing expenses of weak candidates in their respective wards. The party has reportedly issued a missive to some rich candidates to support the average and poor ones.

 Some of the candidates didn't wait for the letter and had started supporting their party men. This has resulted in unity among all four candidates in a ward which will be a must for contestants and for the party.
 
 A keen watch on election campaign of few wards revealed BJP candidates campaigning together in a group. Be it a two-wheeler rally, hiking (padyatra) or meeting with communities, group of four candidates can be seen together.
 
 The election campaign of bigwig candidates in ward no. 31 stands as a good example. Deputy mayor Satish Holey, former deputy mayor Dr Ravindra Bhoyar, Usha Pilot and Sheetal Kambde are campaigning together despite all being heavyweights in their own areas. Financially, Holey and Bhoyar are said to be strong while the remaining two are comparatively weak.
 
 “Panels of BJP and   are equally strong. Therefore, candidates require help of each other. Pilot comes from financially weak family. Therefore, other candidates like Holey and Bhoyar are bearing the total expense of election campaign,” one of the BJP activists told TOI.
 
 Similar is the situation with BJP candidates of ward no. 16 from where former standing committee chairman Sandip Joshi, sitting corporator Munna Yadav’s spouse Laxmi, Lakhan Yerawar and Vanita Dandekar in the fray. Here, Joshi and Yadav are bearing the expense of Yerwar who financially weak but a hit among public. The case is same in other 15 wards as well.
 
 One of the candidates told TOI that some of the party leaders were asked to support financially weak candidates in the panel. “Party leaders are closely watching whether all candidates are campaigning together or not,” he added.
 
 There are few wards where BJP is likely to give financial support to the candidates as majority of them are financially weak. One such ward is no. 32 from where Dipak Chaudhary, Abhay Gotekar, Kalpana Khumbalkar and Rupali Thakur are contesting from BJP. Excluding Gotekar, all candidates are said to be financially weak.
 
 BJP sources said that the party fund is likely to be given to such candidates. “BJP has smartly adjusted candidates in majority of the wards. Financial strength of candidates was one of the merits for being selected as party candidate. BJP gave financial assistance up to Rs2 lakh in the name of party fund to some candidates in 2012 NMC elections,” sources said.
 
 Of total of BJP’s 150 candidates, over 54 are crorepatis and have shown their property over Rs1 crore in their affidavits. BJP is having highest number of crorepatis.
 
 The expense limit of a candidate is Rs10 lakh. However, candidates of major political parties are likely to end up spending minimum of Rs25 lakh each and maximum up to Rs1 crore or even more.
 
 
