CHANDIGARH: On Baisakhi-eve, Chandigarh residents had an extra reason to celebrate as they saw victory in the Delhi high court verdict on Wednesday that cancelled the clearances given to Tata Camelot’s proposed high-rise township in Kansal, Mohali.

 Clearances for the project were accorded by the Punjab government and Nayagaon village panchayat.
 
 Heritage lovers and experts feel a favourable verdict for the project would have had a catastrophic effect on the city’s heritage, especially Capitol Complex. Considered as one of the finest works of Le Corbusier, Capitol Complex was declared as   site on July 17, last year.
 
 After the Chandigarh administration made unsuccessful attempts to get the Unesco tag for it since 2006, the complex was included in the transnational dossier on the work of Le Corbusier, submitted by Paris-based Fondation Le Corbusier to Unesco on behalf of seven countries, including France, Argentina, Japan, Belgium, Switzerland and Germany. Capitol Complex comprises three main buildings — secretariat, legislative assembly and Punjab and Haryana high court. It also has the Open-Hand Monument and a memorial to the martyrs of freedom struggle.
 
 The landscape behind the Capitol Complex is an integral part of the design of the complex and Corbusier had laid stress on controlled development of the entire area in backdrop of the complex.
 
 In November 1960, Corbusier had written to then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru raising objection on building a military cantonment within the sightlines of the Capitol.
 
 Valuing the opinion of Corbusier, Nehru had asked the then Punjab chief minister   not to overrule him and was assured that the “sacred area” around the lake would be preserved and would continue to be agricultural land.
 
 Elated with the verdict, former UT chief architect   said that it will help in safeguarding the world heritage status of the Capitol Complex.
 
 As per rules, if the basic characteristics of a site for which it was included in the World Heritage list is not maintained, the site is put on the list of ‘world heritage in danger’. 
 
 The state is asked to take corrective action, failing which, the site is delisted from the World Heritage list.
 
 “The project would have put immense pressure on the existing infrastructure of Chandigarh,” said social activist Ajay Jagga. 
 
 He further said that the decision of the court has come as a blessing for residents of the city. “The environment and heritage of city has been saved,” he added.
 
 
