It is said that whenever any Puneite bought a gramophone in the 1960s a record of renowned   Gajanan Watve used to be the next immediate purchase. 

 "Those were the days when Pune was a quiet city and when Watve's record was played by the proud gramophone owner, residents of the entire lane used to enjoy hearing Watve's songs", noted cartoonist late Mangesh Tendulkar had once recalled to underline Watve's popularity.
 
 "It is very rare that a singer gets to embark on a journey of seven decades with his audience. Watve enriched our lives and many of his songs are imprinted on my memory. In those days our lives and Watve's songs were both simple and uncomplicated", Tendulkar had said.
 
 Though Watve, whose birth centenary year started last month, is called the undisputed king of Bhavgeet, he preferred to call himself 'Kavya Gayak' - a singer of poems. The name plate in his house reads: Gajanan Watve: Kavya Gayak.
 
 He mesmerised the Marathi audience with his musical rendition of poems for over six decades. Watve brought in the era of bhavgeet' singing, where the words were given more or equal importance as music. His singing was characterised by clear diction, cultured language and a continuous flow of emotions that appealed to the people, especially the youths. His bhavgeet programmes used to attract massive crowds and it is said that cupid struck many a couples during his concerts when he rendered his trademark understated romantic poems.
 
 "During those days singing Watve's 'Gagani ugawala sayantara' was enough to communicate the feelings to the beloved, something today's hero can not do even after burning a lakh calories to express his love for the heroine", Tendulkar had said.
 
 Some of Watve's most popular songs, which are sung and heard even today, include Gagani ugavala sayantara' written by poet Anil, that he first sang in 1941, Dona dhruvanwar doghe aapan', 'Mee niranjanatil waat', Yamunakathi Taj mahal', Radhe tuza sail ambada', Gela daryapaar ghardhani', 'Vara Fofavala'and the patriotic Garja jayajayakar kranticha', especially during the pre-independence days.
 
  "Anna, as he was known, started giving public performances from 1935 when he was 18 years old. The first was in Fergusson college. In all he must have composed over 2000 songs of which only 70 were recorded as gramophone records. Public performances followed by programmes on   were the more popular ways of reaching the audience", says his son Milind Watve, from the department of biology at IISER, Pune, who has inherited the singing talent from his father.
 
 "What I saw myself was past his prime popularity and I could see the release of only one gramophone record. But he remained active in composing and experimenting with various forms of music. Apart from 'Marathi bhavageet', he composed many Hindi-Urdu gazals and even thumari. Remaining an experimenter throughout, he kept thinking of and trying out different styles of music," said Milind Watve.
 
 He remained active making new tunes till his late 80s or up to 2007. His imagination, concepts and compositions was often ahead of time. "However, he did not keep pace with the changing technology. As a result much of his later compositions remained unrecorded and unknown to the public, but I feel they were of an even higher quality than the popular old school Watve music", rues Milind Watve.
 
  He was a teacher at heart and taught music to almost three generations of artistes and encouraged many upcoming lyricists, he added. Prakash Bhonde of Swaranand musical organisation has had a close association with Watve for over three decades. "He was very fond of poetry. 
 
 He bought books of famous poets like Anil, Manmohan, Sanjeevani Marathe, Shanta Shelke, Keshavsut, B R Tambe, carefully chose the best ones and composed them. He never needed much musical accompaniment, except on tabla. He himself used to play the harmonium. During those days the entire budget of a concert used to be just Rs 50 and if anybody offered more money Watve used to call violinist Prabhakar Jog or Parshuram Bapat for additional support", Bhonde said. 
 
 Watve sang all his songs himself and it was only when HMV approached him to cut records that he got vocalists like Malati Pande, Manik Verma, Usha Atre and Kumudini Pednekar to sing some of his songs. "Watve was also a dedicated teacher and trained eminent singers like Shobha Joshi, Ranjana Pethe, Anuradha Marathe, Ravindra Sathe, Govind Pore right upto Hrushikesh and Prajakta Ranade", Bhonde added.
 
 Pramod Ranade, one of Watve's disciples says that what he learnt from him in three years could not have been learnt even after spending many more years somewhere else. "Compared to other illustrious disciples of his, I was very junior but soon he became more a friend than a teacher. He never differentiated among his students and used to eagerly wait for our class to begin. I have never known him to waste even a minute of the teaching time in small chit chat", Ranade said.
 
 Another trait of Watve that Ranade admired was his unwavering dedication to his craft. "He was never tempted to work for films nor did he turned to any vulgar or explicit songs to gain popularity. His songs were clean like his voice and he has tremendous command on his voice and harmonium," Ranade stated.
 
