Chennai: While demonetisation might have increased bank deposits, analysts are expecting the drive to be counter productive and hit third-quarter and fourth quarter earnings at financial institutions.

 Banks saw loan growth decline 3%, which is expected to hit net interest income margins and result in lower spreads during Q3. UBS Securities said that sharp cut in lending rates will see banks squeezed; except those with higher savings account interest rates such as Kotak, IndusInd, YES — due to additional flexibility to manage their cost of funds, said the brokerage in a research note.
 
 Fee income would moderate in Q3 as demonetisation would hurt debit card/ATM and loan processing fees. “However, healthy bond gains, expected due to sharp fall in G-sec yields, would cushion some fee erosion. State-owned banks would be least impacted given that they have a lower share of retail/branch related fees and higher treasury profits. But private lenders like HDFC Bank could see moderation in earnings given lower fees,” the brokerage added.
 
 On higher loan defaults, UBS said Q3 might not see increase non-performing loans (NPLs) as the Reserve Bank of India has given a two-month moratorium on NPL recognition. But after that ends Q4 could see higher NPLs. UBS expected earnings growth to dip to 7.5% in Q3FY17 vs 20.3% in the first half of 2017 at retail-oriented banks like HDFC Bank, Kotak and ICICI.
 
 BofA Merrill Lynch cut FY17 bank sector growth to 7% from its earlier estimate of 13%. It also cut its FY18 growth to 13% from 16%. “Retail growth will likely bounce back faster, led by housing. SME growth, which has high potential, should emerge as a key driver, in our view. In such an environment, coupled with government banks’ known issues, we think market share gains by private banks will only accelerate,” said the brokerage.
 
 BofA, which forecast flat margins for banks in FY18, said that private banks would be better placed than state owned banks as they had a a higher share of fixed-rate loans and higher current and savings accounts.
 
 Microfinance institutions and small finance banks are also seeing an impact with the noteban, which could in turn dent their earnings, said Macquarie. "The median monthly collection efficiency of loans for November declined to 91.3%, from the near 100% cumulative collection efficiency until October 2016. The average monthly collection efficiency for MSME declined to 83% from 95% the previous month,” said the brokerage. “Tractor pools got affected the most as many borrowers did not have a bank account or had poor banking habits - with monthly collection efficiency dipping to 83.8% from 95.3%," it added. 
 
 With banks cutting home loan rates sharply, home finance companies have also followed suit, said HSBC, which cut its earnings estimate for HDFC Ltd to 2.2% from 6.1% for FY17-18, and by 2% for FY17e and FY18e for LIC Home Finance. 
 
 “HDFC Ltd has consistently made a peak spread of more than 195bp for over 16 quarters. With the reduced lending rate of 8.7%, its incremental spread is likely to decline to 180bp, though it is immaterial on overall loan book. In contrast, LICHF works on a spread of 140-150bp, so in recent months it enjoyed a higher spread as its funding cost declined. So their spread will now adjust to normalised levels. However, spreads on the back book is a trickier issue this time around. With an almost 100bp differential with existing yields, existing customers are likely to ask for a repricing,” said the brokerage. which expected a 5-10bp negative impact on spreads for HDFC Ltd in FY18 earnings and stable spreads for LIC Home Finance.
 
 
