Trichy: Distribution of   to some seven lakh consumers in the district has been held over because the family heads have not submitted their photograph. According to the civil supplies and consumer protection department, about 80,000 consumers are yet to submit it. 

 Trichy district has 7,61,635 consumers in the public distribution system (PDS) out of which smart cards were ready for about 6.8 lakh. However, they could not be issued the smart cards without feeding the required information in the system. An official said the photographs of family heads of around 80,000 consumers were not updated which has held up the process of smart card to all consumers. “Despite repeated reminders through phone by the ration shopkeepers, such a huge number of consumers is yet to submit photos,” said the official.
 
 A source said that the introduction of smart card would weed out bogus cards in the district thus considerably reducing the volume of commodities and saving public money. The officials said that if the smart cards were issued to all eligible consumers, they could arrive at the actual figures of the commodities required. In fact, the process of issuance of smart cards to replace the old ration cards had been facing hurdles ever since it commenced on April 1in Trichy and other districts. The main reason was mismatch of data while transferring details of the consumer from the national population register (NPR). 
 
 Originally, a private firm in Chennai was assigned the task of making the smart card using the data in NPR. However, there were reports about mismatch of address, missing of photos, incorrect address and date of birth on the smart card. Following this, the civil supplies and consumer protection department assigned the task of copying the data from the NPR and translating it into Tamil on software to the taluk supply officers (TSOs) in the districts. The officials appealed to the people to submit the photos to the ration shops at the earliest to get their smart cards. 
 
 
