Day 27 begins with a breakfast meeting where   and housemates gather to discuss about the previous night. Shakthi questions Oviya and she says that the songs sung by Namita, Gayathri and   were demeaning her and that she didn’t like it. Gayathri immediately joins the conversation and says that it is not her responsibility to take care of Oviya. She keeps asking who Oviya was. The conversation heats up to such an extent that Shakthi says that he would hit Oviya. Oviya immediately asks him to hit her. Housemates take away Shakthi from the scene.

 Soon, it’s the turn of   to take over the show. He appreciates the housemates for carrying out the acting task perfectly where members had to become a family and act accordingly. He especially, appreciates Vaiyapuri and says that this was his best performance after the film Mumbai Express, in which he along with Kamal. He also asks Shakthi why he cried after stealing the diamond and that   was not looking for a crying thief. 
 
  
  Kamal Haasan then asks about the incident that happened the previous night. Arav says that both sides –Oviya and Gayathri-Namita-Julie – were at fault. None of the housemates were able to sleep and the lyrics in the songs also indicated that they were targeting a particular person. Kamal Haasan lauds the men for taking care of Oviya that night and let her sleep in their room. ‘
 
 He then asks the ladies why none of them turned up to help Julie, when she fell down? While Raiza says that there were too many people already there to help, Namita says that she doubted if she was really hurt or was acting. Later, he asks Julie about the conversation she had with Oviya after the incident. While Julie says that Oviya had badmouthed Gayathri and the other women saying that that they doubted if she was really hurt, Oviya says that she never said anything of those sorts. Kamal Haasan then asks the housemates if they believed Oviya would have done that. Majority says yes and Gayathri says that Julie was a new person and that she would never do such a thing. Kamal Haasan immediately screens few clips from the conversation where Julie is seen badmouthing the other women and Oviya consoling her. Kamal Haasan once again asks the housemates and they say that it was entirely Julie’s fault. Finally, he says that Oviya has been saved from the elimination and that it’s a prize for her honesty. However, he tells Oviya that she shouldn’t take it to her head and should avoid using cuss words in the house. 
 
 
