MANGALURU:   in undivided Dakshina Kannada district have decided to raise their voice against the ban on the rural sport by holding a massive protest rally in Moodbidri on January 28.

 District Kambala Samiti, Sampradaya Kambala Samiti, Kambala Academy and Moodbidri Koti-Chennaya Jodukare Kambala Samiti will hold a protest rally taking 200 pairs of buffaloes from Swaraj Maidan to Kadalakere Nisargadhama Kambala Track in Moodbidri.
 
 Moodbidri Koti-Chennaya Jodukare Kambala Samiti president K Abhaychandra Jain told reporters that 50,000 – 75,000 kambala fans are expected to take part in the rally. “We are expecting a favourable judgement from the high court before which a petition against   is pending for hearing on January 30.
 
 We have filed an application seeking the court to advance the hearing and pronounce a judgement. If the high court judgement comes in favour of kambala before January 28, we will hold kambala instead ofa protest rally as ‘Vijayotsava’ on that day,” Jain said.
 
 Cine actors from Tulunadu, sportspersons, various organisations, students, farmers and all kambala fans will take part in the procession. 
 
 K Gunapala Kadamba, president of Kambala Academy, said jallikattu should never be compared with kambala. “In the history of kambala, there are no instances to prove that animals are tortured or have died during the sport. Kambala, which is a part of worship, tradition and culture of farmers in coastal Karnataka, has its own history and it is evident through documents and inscriptions,” Kadamba said.
 
 He said there are hundreds of kambala fields in coastal area from Byndoor in Karnataka to Kasaragod in Kerala. “Karnataka government has been promoting this rural sport sanctioning funds and also honouring achievers in this sport with various awards. The state government has also set up a committee of officials including the dean of Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University to study kambala.
 
 People, who love kambala, are enraged against those organisations that do not have proper information on the cultural aspects of the sport. Kambala, which is being held in a very systematic manner, has been banned citing issues related to jallikattu,” Kadamba opined.
 
 
 
 
 Extending its support to kambala, Tulunada Rakshana Vedike will hold a protest meet in front of the deputy commissioner’s office on Tuesday at 11am.
 
 
