SHIMLA:   inflow was witnessed in ‘Queen of Hills’ – Shimla after it received fresh snowfall on Friday dipping minimum and maximum temperatures to about three degrees down, while more snowfall is predicted on Saturday.

 A tourist from Rohtak, Shaukat Deepak Singh, said he visits Shimla during every snowfall, usually in January or February, but it is quite surprising and delightful that even in mid of March, he and his friends got to see snowfall here. Another tourist, Shikha Verma from Delhi, said she had reached the town regarding some work, but luckily got to witness snowfall. She said Shimla gave her a feeling of January again even when almost spring has arrived.
 
  (Met) department director   said Thursday’s western disturbance as an upper air cyclonic circulation over Jammu and Kashmir and neighbourhood has moved away northeastwards. “Shimla did not receive snowfall in March in 2016. In 2015, it had received around 26cm snowfall in March and now after a gap of one year, Shimla, has received good snow,” he added.
 
 As per Met, Shimla’s minimum temperature was recorded as 0.4 degrees Celsius on Friday. Keylong remained coldest recording minus 5.2 degrees Celsius, followed by Kalpa recording minus 2.8 degrees Celsius. Chamba, Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur and Lahaul Spiti too received heavy snowfall and Palampur, Solan, Nahan, Bilaspur, Una, Hamirpur and Mandi were lashed in moderate to heavy rainfall on Friday. High hills of state will receive snowfall and rainfall till March 16.
 
 Shimla superintendent of police D W Negi said Kufri, Narkanda and upper areas of Shimla – Khara Patthar, Chaupal, Theog and Jubbal – remained cut from the main town as snow had blocked the roads. 
 
 Power cuts remained a problem for residents during afternoon which was sorted out by evening. Visibility on roads got low due to thick snowflakes and vehicles remained stranded for hours in jams in core Shimla, especially near high court, Lakkar Bazaar, Victory Tunnel, Boileauganj, Sanjauli and other spots.
 
