KOLKATA: The special   team probing the   tapes following the high court’s directive has encountered “serious technical glitches” while trying to scan the unedited video tapes. This may come in the way of the investigating agency’s ascertaining elements of criminality against the accused.

 Investigators would thus submit the compliance report to the Calcutta high court on Tuesday, based on whatever it could decipher from the Narada tapes. A section of CBI officials hinted that the agency may lodge an FIR based on the materials at hand. Enforcement Directorate might also start a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. At the same time, the CBI will look into who all gave the money that the accused are seen to have accepted in the video tapes and why. 
 
 During the last 48 hours the officials scanned the 400 minute footage, frame by frame to find alleged criminality of the accused in the Narada sting operation. Before the draft report was put in place, the eight member team had a meeting at the ant-corruption branch office at Nizam Palace pondering over the transcripts and un-aired footages. 
 
 Meanwhile, the officials going through the raw footages faced technical glitches while trying to play the files. “It could happen as the footages were transferred from one device to another before it was handed over to investigators. If the glitches or technical issues create further cause trouble that might find a reflection in the preliminary enquiry report,” said a CBI official. “We will have to further see if the money was accepted by the accused to provide any benefit to the company,” the official added. 
 
 Technical glitches were also mentioned in the   Chandigarh report which examined the files following the court order. The lab examined an iPhone, a pen drive, a Mac Book Pro and its hard disk. The video was analysed frame by frame, and the audio put through auditory, waveform and spectrographic analysis.
 
 Sources close to the development said that CFSL examined the files using a range of detection software and found that 47 clips are "in continuity". "Tampering, editing has not been found in them," the report said. But the laboratory could not open 26 other clips as they could not be played with the software available with the lab. The CFSL report was inconclusive on those tapes.
 
 After the Narada expose surfaced, the Lok Sabha ethics committee sent notices to accused MPs. The video footages were also sent to   for authenticating them. The central agency reverted back with a report claiming the footage was genuine and had not been tampered. The ethics committee has also recorded statements of Narada News boss Mathew Samuel. 
 
 Meanwhile, Kolkata Police has summoned Mathew Samuel’s chauffer Radhakrishnan TD on March 20 at the Muchipara police station in connection to the alleged extortion case of a former MP of Bihar. Radhakrishnan, who has already appeared before Kolkata police twice before, sent a mail to Muchipara police station claiming that he is unable to appear on the aforesaid sate. He claimed that he was under “undue pressure” and had been asked questions not related to the case. He had also said that since CBI has conducted searches at the Delhi residence of Samuel and seized the electronic gadgets, he is unable to provide those gadgets to Kolkata Police.
 
 
