CHENNAI: A 26-year-old software engineer from   working in the   offices of Tata Consultancy Services ( ) has been missing for a week, alarming his family in George Town in the city and the multinational firm, which has lodged a complaint with the Finland police.

 Hari Sudhan Thanneeru, a TCS employee since 2013, last made contact with his mother in Chennai at 7pm IST (4.30pm in Helsinki) on Friday, September 8, his father Balakanna said.
 
 “Hari usually went for outings with friends on weekends,” he said. “But he didn’t return to work on Monday morning [September 11,” Balakanna told TOI.
 
 TCS sent Hari to work on site in Finland, with the financial services domain of the company, in February 2016. He last visited Chennai two months ago, staying only for a short while, Balakanna said.
 
 Family members have contacted minister of external affairs Sushma Swaraj to ask the government to help locate Hari. They sent several messages on Twitter to Swaraj as well as the Indian embassy in Finland and received acknowledgments, family members confirmed.
 
 The family also sent an SOS to the Finland Tamil Sangam, Balakanna said.
 
 A family friend said few details were forthcoming from the Finland police, who are exercising caution so as to avoid intruding the privacy of an adult.
 
 “Officials in Finland said they have not been able to trace him as yet despite the Finland police searching in various jurisdictions and hospitals,” the family friend said. “Investigators have applied to the Finland government to track his cellphone.”
 
 Officials of TCS met Hari’s parents on Thursday evening and spoke to them for an hour. TCS is trying to arrange for visas for two relatives to fly to Helsinki, with the Finland police saying they would provide further details about the case only to family members.
 
 The TCS unit in Finland currently has an employee strength of around 500, mostly working in Espoo, near Helsinki, and in the cities of Salo, Tampere and Oulu.
 
 A spokesperson for TCS said the company is coordinating with the police in Finland and an HR team has been in touch with the employee’s family in Chennai to ensure proper communication.
 
 
