PUNE: Several   in Pune and   on Tuesday took efforts to boost voter turnout in their respective localities. Office-bearers as well as individuals pitched in to ensure residents go and vote. 

 In Pimple Saudagar’s Roseland Residency, which houses 1,080 units, more than 950 residents exercised their right to vote. “Compared to last elections, the turnout was better this time. A lot of people walked into the society’s office to find out their polling stations and booths,” said Satosh Mankar, chairman, Roseland Residency.
 
 The broader Pimple Saudagar area also saw a good turnout as people staying in housing societies here are contesting as independent candidates. “Our people voted as a society panel can come to power and attend to immediate issues,” said a manager of one of the housing societies in the area.
 
 Office-beares along with security guards at  , Roseland Residency and Kunal Icon took special efforts to call people and ensure that they had voted. Out of 252 eligible voters at Rajaveer Palace, 200 exercised their right to vote, as per the list available with the security unit.
 
 At Palace View housing society in Kalyaninagar, the chairman and secretary ensured that all members of 126 units had voted. Secretary M Shabuddin said, “It is not only this time, but all elections in the past have received 100% response. We create awareness about the importance of voting each time elections come up and tell residents to choose a leader to get developmental works done in our area. Almost 90% residents of the society had already voted in the five hours of voting.”
 
 The Konark Riviera housing society in Kalyaninagar arranged autorickshaws to ferry its residents to the polling booths. Ramesh Aggrawal, society secretary, said, “Some women had difficulty in walking to the polling booths or didn’t have their own vehicles. Hence, we thought of hiring three autorickshaws for the entire day to ferry women and senior citizens. This is a regular practice we have been following for the past three to four elections.”
 
 Advocate Radhikeshwar Uttarwar from Brahma Avenue housing society in Kondhwa, which has 4,500 voters, said that their campaign ‘Pledge to vote’ to ensure 100% voter turnout received a good response. “Till late in the afternoon, we had about 2,400 citizens going out and voting. However, apart from the confusion over polling booths being at different places for the people from same society, the voters did not face any issue,” he added.
 
 Beena D’Souza, a resident of Rajgriha B housing society, near Salunkhe Vihar, in Kondhwa took the help of a corporator’s son to get the list of people in her society. “The names were badly messed up. However, I sat through the evening the previous day and with the help of voter app on my cellphone messaged polling booth numbers to my society members to enable them to vote,” she said.
 
 (With inputs from Satyanarayan Iyer, Swati Shinde Gole, Nisha Nambiar, Sandip Dighe, Triveni Rangarajan and Manish Umbrajkar)
 
 
