NEW DELHI: The redevelopment of the Indian Trade Promotion Organisation’s exhibition complex at   will necessitate the decongestion of the   area. The area gets clogged whenever major events are being held at the trade fair ground. Plans now include providing direct access to the upcoming underground parking for visitors. 

 These will be achieved through a series of underpasses and loops designed to render the stretch from Sundar Nagar to Supreme Court signal-free.
 
 “The conceptual plan is ready, and will be sent to UTTIPEC for clearance,” said a senior official of PWD, which will undertake the project. Additional permissions will be required from the Archaeological Survey of India for a tunnel road that will lie close to the protected Purana Quila. The project will be monitored by the cabinet secretary.
 
 Work on ground is expected to start by the middle of this year. ITPO chairperson LC Goyal told TOI that the road redesign will take place alongside the redevelopment of the exhibition complex with the expectation that both will be completed simultaneously.
 
 In addition to roads directly related to Pragati Maidan, a tunnel to take traffic from Purana Quila Road to Outer Ring Road will be excavated under the fair ground. It may later be extended to   near the Vikas Marg loop, enabling central Delhi one more link with east Delhi.
 
 As per the road redesign plan, two parallel tunnels on Mathura Road, just after the Bhagwan Das Road crossing, will accommodate traffic approaching Pragati Maidan from opposite ends. One tunnel will also provide access to the underground parking for those coming from Purana Quila Road.
 
 To facilitate smooth movement, another tunnel near Bhairon Marg will allow traffic coming from Sundar Nagar to go straight towards ITO. Yet another tunnel will be constructed for traffic turning right to Bhairon Marg, from which an arm will extend toward the Pragati Maidan parking. A parallel tunnel road on Bhairon Marg will connect with Mathura Road.
 
 Further down, at the Sher Shah Road crossing, underground access will be provided to traffic coming from the high court and turning right toward Mathura Road. Traffic going to Delhi high court or India Gate from Pragati Maidan will take a loop in front of the fort and cross via a tunnel that will open up close to the high court.
 
 Once construction starts in around six months’ time, massive traffic disruption can be expected. The space outside Pragati Maidan, especially at the gates, will be taken up for use by traffic. “It will take at least one year to build the new access routes,” said a PWD official. “Meanwhile, we have also sanctioned a study to assess the viability and coordinates of a new bridge across the Yamuna, which will be an extension of the tunnel road from Purana Quila Road.” 
 
 
