ALWAR/JAIPUR: The   have reverted the decision to shoot down a leopard that has mauled several people to death in villages in the fringe of  . Fresh efforts are being made to trap the animal into a cage with the help of tranquillizers. 

 “We have put in cages and baits in the area to catch the animal alive. Once the leopard has been caught, DNA test will be conducted to check if the captured animal is the same which killed a woman on February 12,” the official said.
 
 The officials said the animal will be kept inside the cage instead of killing it. “We have to identify the animal which mauled down the people to death,” the official said.
 
 The sources said that efforts shall be made to first identify the animal which killed people. Meanwhile, the special teams and cops have been patrolling in the area to find traces of the animal. Six search teams with the help of 20 trap cameras have been trying to find the animal.
 
 Sources said that one of the 20 cameras has captured the image of a feline and its pugmarks. 
 
 There are more than 100 leopard the entire Sariska area in   and the   where the leopard attack took place witnesses movement of around 10 panthers, officers said.
 
 “A camera captured image of a panther last night and the leopard are being tracked to trace down the leopard,” Alwar District collector   said.
 
 Forest officers are trying to ascertain if the pugmarks belong to the particular leopard which killed two persons.
 
 An official of the forest department said that ten teams comprising 120 members from the forest department and police equipped with weapons and equipments are on the hunt of the leopard.
 
 Professional snipers equipped with weapons and drone cameras have been deployed near water points and habitat areas to track down the panther.
 
 A 36-year-old woman and a 50-year-old man were mauled to death by the leopard on Sunday following which the forest department swung into action and shoot-at-sight order was issued.
 
 Six persons have been mauled by leopards area in recent times.
 
