MUMBAI: It is rare for Mumbai to host an international sporting event, but civic agencies in the city did precious little to encourage the one that came along this weekend. 

 The Nexa P1 Powerboat - Indian Grand Prix of the Seas - held at   this weekend, was to be an extravagant affair, announcing India as the flag-bearer of international Grand Prix powerboat racing. But with   (BMC) denying the organisers permission to install interactive setups, like putting up LED screens along the promenade, spectators were left confused and frustrated.
 
 The Bombay high court on Wednesday had criticised chief minister   and BMC for not granting permission for the event, asking the CM what his "claims to globalisation and 'Make in India' were worth". Mumbaikars who had come to watch the event on Sunday echoed those sentiments.
 
 Virat Mehta (70), who lived in Hong Kong for 25 years and has actually piloted a powerboat from Pattaya to Coral Island, told TOI that while the race was an amazing idea, people did not benefit from coming to watch the event. 
 
 "When I was in Hong Kong, everybody looked forward to powerboat racing because apart from the race, there were plenty of interactive events organised. It was like a picnic. I expected something similar here and that's why I brought my family, but sadly it was nothing like it. Nobody had a clue what was happening. It would've been better watching it on television," he said.
 
 Grant Road resident Neil Bhatia too vented his frustration at the government for depriving the people of an opportunity to enjoy the event.
 
 "This is where our government disappoints," Bhatia, who came with his wife and child, said, adding, "Here you have an event that brings together people from all walks of life as there isn't an entry fee, and they are denied permission. What's the use of having such a brilliant place if you are not going to use it to promote such events that will ultimately boost tourism?"
 
 Aditya Deora, who travelled from Andheri with his family, said the event looked mundane. "We were just seeing boats go past. We didn't know who was in the lead, who was racing, nothing. It could've well been a local race for all we know. This is the first time so I guess the organisers will learn, but if they don't get permission next year, I don't think people will come to watch the event," the 37-year-old said.
 
 Vivek Singh, joint managing director of  , said that while his team would've obviously liked to give the spectators more, they aren't overly disappointed with how the event panned out. 
 
 "It's true that those who came here deserved to know what was happening, but you have to realise that it's the first time that such an event is being held in the country. I don't think there's anything to be disappointed about because we had nothing to fall back on. It's only going to get better. Seeing how successful the event was, I'm sure the authorities will give us all the required permissions the next time around," he said.
 
 
