KOLKATA:   in the city have decided to fend for themselves, what with the   's state unit supporting the Clinical Establishments Act and the headquarters, which had earlier threatened   to get the law scrapped, softening its stand. The doctors have not ruled out moving   against the new law outside the IMA fold following the association's national meeting on April 2.

 Before the IMA national meet, an action committee meeting will be held on April 1.Kolkata doctors are keeping their fingers crossed. “It will be crucial. If the meeting indicates the IMA headquarters is not ready to take on the act, we must consider the legal option outside the IMA fold,“ said R K Dubey , president of the south Kolkata unit of IMA.
 
 Explaining the reason behind seeking legal option, Dubey said doctors in Kolkata and Bengal were not ready to accept a couple of clauses. With the chances of a rethink now being remote, going to court seemed the only option. “The new act makes doctors liable for arrest in case of medical negligence. We are ready to accept cancellation of registration, but doctors can't be put behind bars. It will make them defensive, which will affect treatment,“ Dubey said.
 
 The IMA had sought a meeting with chief minister Mamata Banerjee before the bill was passed. “With no respon se, we assume the door has been shut on amending clauses.So, we shall now wait for the IMA office-bearers' opinion at the national meeting. But it's still too early to speculate on legal action,“ said K K Aggarwal, national president, IMA.
 
 But Kolkata doctors remained in favour of opposing the act in its present form. Arresting doctors for medical negligence could sound the deathknell for healthcare in Bengal, said a former West Bengal Medical Council official. “Besides scaring doctors, the act could set a precedent. It will cripple the health system in India.“
 
 The IMA state unit will support the bill at the national meet but will oppose the clause on doctors' arrest. “Doctors can be summoned for inquiry , but they shouldn't be harassed or persecuted. If that happens, IMA Bengal will take to the streets,“ said IMA state secretary Shantanu Sen. “Some patients are using the bill to threaten and abuse doctors. We are against that and even the new law says it is illegal.“
 
