HYDERABAD: Chief minister   on Friday sanctioned an additional 500 crore for buying new vehicles for police stations in rural areas. Speaking at the state-wide police conference held at the  , the CM said the state has so far provided funds to the police department for the purchase of 4,000 new vehicles. "We have decided to sanction another 500 crore to buy new vehicles for police stations in rural areas," he said. According to  , the state has successfully eliminated the "Hafta or Mamool" menace. He claimed that no police personnel will henceforth demand money to perform his duty. 

 The chief minister urged the police to come to the rescue of the helpless. "We have appointed 12,000 people in the department and in the future will appoint another 15,000 persons. We will fill up SI and DSP posts through direct recruitment. We are giving risk allowance to those working in security and traffic. For the maintenance of police stations based on their status, 25,000, 50,000 and 75,000 per month is being given and we will provide whatever the department asks for," he said. 
 
 Emphasising on the need for friendly policing, he pointed out that rich people can get things done but it is the poor who need help. The chief minister offered incentives to the police to successfully eradicate social evils like playing cards, illicit liquor, gutka, and matka. The chief minister praised the police for controlling naxalism and extremism. He observed that since the law and order situation in the state is good, investments are pouring in.
 
 "The Prime Minister and Union home minister on several occasions have hailed the Telangana police which has made me proud," the CM said. Taking note of the long- pending demand about timely promotions in different cadres, the chief minister promised to put in place a suitable system to expedite departmental promotions soon. He also directed DGP Anurag Sharma to ensure handing over of all benefits to the employee on the day he retires so that they need make endless visits to various offices. 
 
 KCR complimented Hyderabad commissioner   and former commissioner of Cyberabad CV Anand for their work to transform policing in the city. He also praised officers   for effective management of She-Teams and   for controlling illicit liquor menace. 
 
