PATNA: The Patna   on Friday dismissed the public interest litigation (PIL) seeking a judicial probe or   inquiry into the Intermediate (Class XII)  . 

 The division bench of acting Chief Justice Hemant Gupta and Justice Sudhir Singh was hearing the PIL filed by advocate Manibhushan Pratap Sengar.
 
 The topper scam hit the headlines last year after a video showed Intermediate Arts topper Ruby Rai pronouncing political science as ‘prodigal science’ and calling it a subjected related to cookery. 
 
 Principal addition advocate general Lalit Kishore said an affidavit was filed in the court stating that the state government had swung into action soon after the scam surfaced. “The accused in the scam, including the   (Vaishali) director Bachcha Rai and other government officials involved in the scam, have been arrested and sent to jail in the case. The SIT (special investigation team) probing the scam has also filed chargesheet in the case,” Kishore said while quoting the affidavit submitted before the court. Kishore said the court was satisfied with the government’s stand that no independent inquiry was required in the case.
 
 He said the SIT, on September 5 last year, filed the chargesheet against 32 accused, including former   (BSEB) chairman Lalkeshwar Prasad Singh and its former secretary Hariharnath Jha, Bachcha Rai and former JD(U)   Usha Sinha. All the accused are in jail. Ruby was arrested after she failed to answer questions by a review committee of the BSEB. Later, she was released on bail. On February 11 this year, the SIT also arrested Awadhesh Rai from Vaishali.
 
 Sengar said he had also raised the demand for an independent body to be set up by the government for granting recognition to schools and colleges in the state and also for conducting all state-level examinations in Bihar. “Looking at the education system in Bihar, I had also urged the high court through the PIL that recruitment of government teachers should also be made through a similar body,” the petitioner said.
 
 
