KOCHI: Lack of measures to recharge   is compounding the issue of water shortage faced by the state, which gets an annual rainfall of around 3,000 mm on an average. Though   was made mandatory by the local   as per the  , the implementation and monitoring has been an absolute failure.

 Neighbouring states like Tamil Nadu, where rainfall is very low compared to Kerala, has put in place measures for rainwater harvesting. “There the government has made it mandatory for owners of big structures to provide facilities for rainwater harvesting. In the absence of such a system, the government will not supply water or electricity to such buildings,“ said S Sitaraman, environmentalist. “Kerala government also should follow suit,“ he said.
 
  are present in many government offices in the state, but almost all of them are now defunct, Sitaraman said. “ As per a study conducted by researchers at SCMS, the total rooftop area we can use for rainwater harvesting in Kochi comes to around 10 sq km or one crore sq m. If there is normal rainfall, we can harvest around three lakh litres of rainwater from a 100 sq m roof. This coupled with other sources of water is more than enough for our use all through the year. But nobody cares for it,“ Sitaraman said.
 
 Rajasthan where the annual rainfall is just 600 mm a year has gone much ahead, he said.
 
 The state government is pinning its hopes on Haritha Keralam project which has conservation of water as a major theme.
 
 “The project to be implement ed with the support of local bodies and NGOs will help a lot in recharging groundwater and rejuvenating water bodies,“ said Mathew T Thomas, minister for water resources.
 
 Officials with Centre for Water Resources Development and Management (CWRDM) said that they have implemented a project to recharge and protect   wetland which is spread across 10 panchayats and two municipalities in Kasaragod.
 
 As part of the project, systems for rainwater harvesting and groundwater recharge was set up in 20 schools. “We have given 1,000 mangrove saplings to locals. Edayilakkadu island of Kavvayi wetland ecosystem is home to a rare 11.8 acre sacred grove which is being conserved under the project,“ said P S Harikumar, senior principal scientist and head water quality division, CWRDM.
 
 A similar project would be implemented in Kattampilly wetland in Kannur district soon.“We have already created a management action plan for sorting out the related issues. The plan will be discussed with various stakeholders like departments of forest, revenue, fisheries, local self-governments and the fisherfolk community,“ Harikumar said.
 
 An unscientific regulatorcum-bridge in the area has been found to negatively impact the wetland. “Kattampilly wetland is natural sanctuary of migratory birds. There should be measures to protect it,“ he said.
 
