THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Questioning the intentions of additional chief secretary (health)   in implementing the “new treatment mode“ at the Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) here, former chief minister and administrative reforms commission chairman   has alleged that “outside forces were trying to wreck the premier cancer care institution in the state“.

 Through a submission in the assembly on Wednesday,   asked the government to clarify its stand on the health secretary's letter to the RCC director which said the existing treatment system followed in the hospital was not scientific.
 
 “The health secretary's direction is to follow certain treatment methods being followed in private hospitals. The argument that there's no multi-disciplinary treatment sy stem is not correct. The doctors are not taken into confidence, and the health secretary's baseless argument will affect the smooth functioning of the institute. There are also allegations that the reforms are intended to help private insurance companies,“ he alleged.
 
 Quickly clarifying that Achuthanandan has some misunderstanding on the reforms in treatment mode being implemented at RCC, health minister K K   told the assembly that a 'multi-disciplinary tumour board' was formed on November 30, 2016, to integrate medical, surgical and radiation oncology departments to provide comprehensive and timely treatment to patients. “The board was formed with the knowledge of the chief minister and after a detailed discussion to bring the treatment methods at RCC to international standards, which is our priority. However, there has been some natural confusions and doubts among doctors regarding the new board and a new order has been issued after considering their suggestions,“ Shylaja said.
 
 The health minister also said that a core committee has also been formed to handle complaints against the new board and to review its decisions, thus ensuring comprehensive treatment to patients at RCC which would be on par with that at other major cancer care centres in the country.
 
