PUNE: Ahead of the   on Tuesday, residents of about 20 housing societies in Panchavati area celebrated the subject through a two-day event. 

 The Panchavati area is known to be home to renowned scientists like Jayant Narlikar, Madhav Gadgil, Ajit Kembhavi and Naresh Dadhich.
 
 The theme of the event, organised by Panchavati Utkarsh Seva Sanstha, was ‘Electronics for Life’. To organise the event, residents sought help from three organisations Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (CDAC),   (CMET) and Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER). Over February 25 and 26, the free-of-cost event commemorated the use of science in day-to-day life, the latest innovations as well as a discussion on women in science, which was attended by some big names, including Jayant Narlikar.
 
 “CMET scholars worked for the past three months to ensure the success of the exhibition. Ten stalls provided information on how knowledge of electronics is used in various fields like health, agriculture, space, among others. Moreover, scholars explained how electronics is used in day-to-day life,” said scientist PJ Lavakare, who has worked on India’s first satellite Aryabhatta. Lavakare is also presently a member of the international advisory board of the Asian Institute of Technology, Bangkok.
 
 CDAC experts put up stalls explaining the history and evolution of computers and, as an example, officials also explained how computers are used to forecast weather. IISER students’ stall showed visitors the journey of science in the country, from ancient times until now. Citizens group Greenpanch also showcased their effort to keep Panchavati clean and green.
 
 Ashish Kuvelkar, associate director of HPC-Tech, C-DAC, said, “People of all age groups turned up to watch the exhibition and demonstrations. This is the first time a society and its residents have showed so much love for science. It was a very pleasant experience for us to explain to everybody what we do at work.”
 
 Another popular event was Fun with Science by Ashok Rupner from the   and Astrophysics (IUCAA). “The children had a fun yet educational experience seeing some 20-25 experiments,” said Lavakare.
 
