Actor  , who became a household name for Malayalis through the popular TV serial Sthree, is now busy with movies. 

 The actor, who is already part of films such as Mammootty’s   and Manju Warrier’s Mohanlal, has now joined Kunchacko Boban in director Sugeeth’s  . 
  On his character Vasu in the film, Krishna Kumar tells us, “I play a forest ranger who lost his son in the wilderness. I will be seen in two looks in the movie — in the younger and current version of the character.” The shooting is progressing in Kothmangalam.
 
  Krishna Kumar says that the character is different from his previous roles. “Sugeeth offered me the character when I was shooting for a Tamil movie, so while joining the sets of Shikkari Shambu, I had no clue about Vasu. He asked me to get a complete makeover. I think I even surprised myself when I looked in the mirror in Vasu’s getup as he’s nothing like me.”
 
 The actor is also excited to share screen space with Kunchacko Boban once again after Vishudhan. “We have a good rapport and it has reflected in our films as well,” he adds. In Sajid Yahiya’s directorial Mohanlal, Krishna Kumar plays Manju Warrier’s dad while he will be seen as a jailer in Mammootty’s Parole and in two Tamil movies as well. 
 
  Krishna Kumar, who credits television for exploring his acting potential, says that he finds working in movies more thrilling. “It has been 11 years since I stopped acting in Malayalam serials and yet I still get more offers from TV than films every year. But I get the kick when I see people going to theatres to watch films,” he explains. “I decided to take a break from the small screen when I felt that I have reached my saturation point. I believe the serial industry is now dominated by women and if I am doing one, it should have remarkable content. That is how I ended up doing a serial in Tamil with actress Ramya Krishnan.”
 
  Meanwhile, his daughter Ahaana Krishna’s latest outing Njandukalude Naatil Oridavela has been getting positive reviews. “She is also interested in direction. My intuition says all my daughters may join the industry eventually,” says Krishna Kumar, adding that he never felt the industry is unsafe for women. “We shouldn’t judge the entire industry based on isolated incidents,” he signs off.
 
 
