PATNA: A seven-day programme on training in ‘Human Behaviour Management’ opened on the   (CUSB) campus on Monday.

 Speaking at the event organised by the varsity’s School of Education, CUSB vice-chancellor Prof H C S Rathore said teachers shape the human behaviour. “India has a rich culture, and we are alienating ourselves from our roots by aping the western culture,” he said.
 
 Key speaker Prof R K Dubey from BHU talked about ‘Time management’. He said time is money and it must be managed like money. 
 
 The training session was coordinated by Prof Kaushal Kishore and Swati Gupta. Chandra Prabha Pandey, Tarun Kumar Tyagi, Kavita, Awadhesh Kumar and Abhijeet Singh were also present.
 
 Patna University:   organised a cultural programme at Magadh Mahila College on Monday to mark the varsity’s centenary. 
 
 Vice-chancellor Ras Bihari Prasad Singh inaugurated the function. Pro-VC   was the guest of honour. 
 
 Meanwhile, 40 students of Magadh Mahila College donated blood at a camp organised by the college in association with Indian Red Cross Society on the college campus on Monday.
 
 Dr Devendra Nath and his team conducted the camp under the supervision of college faculty member Dr Archana Katiyar.
 
 Centenary run: Thousands of Patnaites participated in a first-of-its-kind Patna University (PU) Centenary Run from the Wheeler Senate House on Ashok Raj Path to the Kargil Chawk near   on Sunday. 
 
 The centenary run started at 6.30am after garlanding of the statue of Swami Vivekanand at the Wheeler Senate House by state education minister Krishnanandan Verma, former ministers Ashok Choudhary and Shyam Razak and several legislators, including Neeraj Kumar and Sanjay Singh, PU vice-chancellor (VC) Ras Bihari Prasad Singh, pro-VC Dolly Sinha, Nalanda Open University VC R K Sinha, besides members of the university senate and syndicate, all of whom had studied in PU. 
 
 The education minister also released a bunch of 100 colourful balloons, signifying as many eventful years in the life of PU before flagging off the run. All of them marched in procession up to the Kargil Chawk in less than half an hour.
 
 The enthusiasm was such that even retired teachers in their eighties and late seventies, like S D Singh (zoology) and R P Singh Rahi (political science), joined the procession. All of them were chanting slogans like “Long live PU,” and “Sau saal hamara hai, hazar saal hamara hoga” and carrying banners and placards depicting the run. People had lined up on both sides of Ashok Raj Path and showered flower petals on the runners. Attractive centenary gates had been erected at strategic locations on Ashok Raj Path.
 
 At the Kargil Chowk, the runners were served water and cold drinks. Both education minister and PU VC addressed the participants and showed their commitment and determination to do their best for revival of the university’s old glory.
 
 Sunday’s centenary run marked the commencement of PU’s centenary celebrations. PU has also decided to set up a centenary cultural centre on its campus to commemorate 100 glorious years of its existence. The proposed centre will have an auditorium with a sitting capacity of 2,500, a cafeteria, a library, an information centre and a placement cell.
 
 Both President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have already consented to be part of the centenary celebrations on different occasions.
 
