CHENNAI: Being in and out of the Indian team is always difficult for any cricketer. Dhawal  , who has been in the Indian limited-overs team scheme of things for quite some time now, hasn't been able to break into the team as a regular in the playing eleven.

 However, the 28-year-old Mumbai pacer, who is now up and running after an injury break, hasn't let that affect him. "That's part of the game. There are guys who are doing really well for the Indian team and you have to wait for your chances. When you get it, you have to grab it," he said after making a strong comeback - picking five wickets in two matches - in the recently concluded Vijay Hazare Trophy league phase in Chennai earlier this month.
 
 "All these years, I have never taken it (being in ad out) in a negative way. It's always a positive thing. You perform in domestic cricket and you get recognised, you get picked. So, the key thing is to keep performing and the rest is up to the selectors," said Kulkarni, who has played 12 ODIs and two T20s.
 
 Kulkarni said he has been working a lot on his rhythm and bowling stride during the time he had spent away from action. "I have worked hard on my fitness with the trainer and physio at  . I'm trying to add a few yards of pace to my bowling and I think I'm bowling a bit quicker than what I was before the injury.
 
 "I wasn't getting my rhythm earlier, now I have worked on my rhythm and bowling stride. These are the key aspects for a pacer… the force you generate at the bowling stride and the arm speed," he added.
 
 Kulkarni, who plays for   in the  , is eagerly looking forward to the upcoming T20 extravaganza.
 
 "It's going to be important. I was out with an injury for three months. Coming back, I have to do well. If you are consistent in T20s you get recognised. IPL is an ideal platform. The level of playing matches is quite intense and you learn a lot. Bowling under pressure helps you develop as a bowler," said Kulkarni and added that playing Test cricket is his ultimate dream.
 
