NASHIK: The much awaited sanctification of the new   Parvati in   will be held between May 17 and 19 in the   The trust officials have planned a grand event to mark the occasion. However,   and spokesperson of Akhil Bharatiya Shasht Darshan Akhada Parishad Bindu Maharaj has opposed the grand function and appealed trustees to cut it short to save unnecessary expenditure. 

 “We have submitted a letter to the trustees and appealed them to avoid the unnecessary show off and keep the sanctification of new idol a low key affair. This will save money donated by the devotees. This amount could be used for developmental works of the devotees,” Dr Bindu Maharaj said. 
 
 Trimbakeshwar trust had recently announced that it will decorate the entire temple premises with flowers and will organise a grand mass feast for 10,000 plus devotees. The trust has kept aside Rs 20 lakh for his celebration. However, according to Dr Bindu Maharaj, such a grand celebration is unnecessary.
 
 “Sanctification of a new idol is a normal process for the temple and there is no point in spending a large amount on it,” he said adding that his group may file a petition in court if the trust ignores his suggestion. “The event ahould not cost more than Rs 5 lakh,” Maharaj added. 
 
 Trustee Lalita Shinde confirmed that the letter has been received. “Trustees consider this event as a milestone in the history of the temple and hence we intended to make it memorable. However, we will definitely consider the suggestions coming from religious personality,” she said. 
 
 Religious personalities have been demanding the replacement of Parvati idol for quite some time now. The ASI, Delhi, which looks after the temple, also directed them to replace the idol with a new one built with the same material and dimensions as recommended by the superintending archaeologist, ASI, Aurangabad circle. The letter also directed the ASI, Aurangabad circle, to ensure that no damage is caused to the monument or parts during the shifting of the idol. 
 
