Mapusa is crowded and noisy. It's a wholesale fish market next to a wholesale vegetable market next to a wholesale anything-you-need market. It's where you go when you need to buy paper lanterns or pick up daily labour. The only part of Mapusa a tourist might see is the bus stand or the taxi stand (where said tourist will most likely get fleeced).

 This most non-Goa corner of Goa, hidden in plain sight between the quaint capital city of Panjim and the sunny beaches further north, is set to witness one of the most high-profile trials of recent times, as the district court in Mapusa formally framed charges against Tarun Tejpal (in pic), the former editor of Tehelka who stands accused of sexually assaulting one of his employees.
 
 Tejpal has been charged under Indian Penal Code sections 354-A (sexual harassment), 376 (rape), 376(2)(k) (rape by a person being in position of control or dominance over the woman), 376 (2) (f) (person in position of trust or authority committing rape), 376C (sexual intercourse by person in authority), 341 and 342 (wrongful restraint) and 354 (assault or criminal force against woman with the intention to outrage her modesty).
 
 Tejpal, who pleaded not guilty to all the charges, faces up to 10 years in prison if the verdict goes against him.
 
 The framing of charges marks the beginning of the trial, nearly four years after the alleged assault at the 2013 Think Fest — a platform for exchanging and expressing thoughts and ideas which, in the darkest shade of irony, also included a session on surviving rape titled ‘The Beast In Our Midst’.
 
 The victim alleged that she was assaulted on two separate occasions at the hotel where the event was held. The formal complaint she mailed to the magazine's managing editor at the time, Shoma Chaudhary, sparked a series of dramatic events -- leaked SMS exchanges, an apology from Tejpal, his stepping down as editor of Tehelka, a rescinding of the earlier apology, and counter-allegations saying the “sexual liaison” was “fleeting” and “consensual”.
 
 The Goa Police launched an investigation and arrested Tejpal on November 30, 2013. He was granted bail by the Supreme Court in July 2014.
 
 The long gap between the charge sheet being filed (February 2014) and the framing of charges can be attributed to the defence's request for cloned copies of data from the victim's phone and laptop, which the prosecution only managed to obtain earlier this year. “We needed them as they are evidence,” Advocate   told the media outside the court on Thursday.
 
 “They (the prosecution) didn’t even know which laboratory to approach and we had informed them.”
 
 According to public prosecutor  , however, the cloned copies didn’t provide “any new detail and matched with details in the charge sheet”.
 
 The action will now briefly move to the high court, where Tejpal has filed a petition asking for the case to be dismissed. This will be heard on November 1, and while the defence sounded confident the high court would dismiss the case entirely, public prosecutor Tavera remained convinced these were just “delaying tactics” and that “this case would definitely go to trial”.
 
 The defence had started the day trying to get the framing of charges postponed until after the high court decision. “We are disappointed. We are hopeful that the high court will discharge the matter. In our opinion this is not a case fit for trial,” Gomes said. If the high court rejects Tejpal's petition, he can go to the Supreme Court to seek quashing of the trial.
 
 Additional district sessions judge Vijaya Pol, meanwhile, has asked the defence to present a “status update” on the high court case on November 21, after which, depending on the high court's decision, the court will decide on the trial dates.
 
