LONDON: Garbine   shook her head and buried her face in her palms before sinking to her knees on Centre Court. When the Spaniard finally rose to her feet, tears streaming down her cheeks, the sun smiling down on her, she punched the air as much in celebration as to underline a point.

  champion at 23.
 
 Compelling as it was, that's just one side of Saturday's story.
 
 Venus Williams, back straight, shoulders square, congratulated her opponent and made that long, lonely walk of some ten steps to a court side chair. The 37-year-old looked around her, sank to the seat and quickly swallowed her tears. The five time champion had stumbled in the final hurdle for the fourth time.
 
 Muguruza won 7-5, 6-0 in 77-minutes, winning on her third match point, following a challenge.
 
 The Spaniard, clutching the Venus Rosewater Dish, said, "This was my hardest match of the tournament. I grew up watching Venus play, she's an inspiration, it was incredible to play her in the final. When I lost here two years ago, I said I would be back, so here I am." Muguruza, who claimed a cheque of 2,200,000 pounds for her win, added, "I was nervous. I always dreamed of being here. I wanted to win. I had lost a major final and I had won one, I knew the difference. The first set was tough, both of us had chances."
 
 Muguruza, cheered on by an animated  , who had clinched the grasscourt Slam 23 years ago, said the older Spaniard's confidence had rubbed off on her.
 
 Muguruza, who walked onto Centre Court with her right thigh heavily strapped, attacked from the outset. But she had planned her play smartly, ready to go the distance.
 
 Venus had conceded 50 games coming into the final, while the Spaniard had dropped 39. The American may have had the greater number of winners 143 to the Spaniard's 141 en route to the final, but in the end she was out of reserves. Venus, who had until the final dropped serve just six times in the course of The Championships, lost serve four times in the title clash, her last four service games.
 
 The 37-year-old, who was aiming to become the oldest Wimbledon champion in more than a 100 years, since Londoner Charlotte Cooper in 1908, faded in the second set. Venus had set points in the tenth game of the first set, but lost nine straight games from there, the wheels coming off her challenge rather dramatically.
 
 Interestingly, Venus started the final with an ace, a 109 mph delivery. Muguruza opened her first service game with a double fault. The Spaniard, 14 years Williams' junior, adjusted quickly to the pace of her opponent, serve and speed of shot to take away the baseline and punch from the American's play before overpowering her.
 
 Venus won just 12 points in the 26-minute second set. The American erred repeatedly, particularly on the forehand side, her weaker flank, winning just four of the 11 long rallies in the match, her racket head opening up and the ball floating long. Venus, who in 2011 was diagnosed with  's Syndrome, a chronic auto-immune disease that can cause fatigue and tiredness often without warning, wasn't quite there in the last half hour of play.
 
 Muguruza, the crowd right behind her, didn't put a foot wrong in the contest. Venus -who was dealing with plenty, especially lately when she was initially blamed for a car crash that killed a septuagenarian, not far from her gated community home -was quick to congratulate her opponent. The American told her younger rival that she had played amazing. "Well done to you and your family today," Venus said. "Beautiful. Thank you for my team and family for all that you have done for me.   I miss you, I tried to do the same as you've done..."
 
 Venus' lips then twisted as she told the crowd she'd be back again. "There will be other times," she said. Her heavily kohled eyes looking away.
 
 When asked what it was that her sister would've done that she was unable to do, she displayed the sharpness that was missing from her play. "Winning, I guess," she finished. 
 
