CHENNAI: When gynaecologist Nazira Sadique first saw lacerations on the young woman's genitalia, she was shocked. The 26-year-old, who had been married for five years, was initially hesitant to confide, but when she did, what emerged was a case of sexual violence fuelled by her husband's porn-watching habits.

 “She said he kept watching porn and insisted on `abnormal' sex. The woman was not willing to indulge in it but was forced to,“ says Sadique. “I have seen two other cases like this before but women are usually not forthcoming about their problems.“
 
 The problem is widespread. A 22-year-old woman in Bengaluru filed a case against her husband for forcing her to watch porn and engage in similar acts.When she refused, he beat her up. In February, a Mumbai woman asked the   to ban porn sites as her marriage had been ruined by her husband's addiction to online pornography.
 
 While most people who watch porn do not engage in sexual violence, experts say the link between porn, sexual assault and domestic violence cannot be ignored.
 
 “Three of five domestic violence cases we see are associated with sexual violence; a majority are linked to porn,“ says Prasanna Gettu, founder of International Foundation for Crime Prevention and Victim Care ( ), a non-profit organisation working with domestic abuse survivors.
 
 Gettu says men force women to engage in sexual acts in various ways. “He may cajole her into it or intimidate her. Some may also become physically and sexually violent after watching porn,“ she says. Sexologist Narayana Reddy says there's a link between violent pornography and sexual assault.
 
 “People with psychological disorders may get addicted to it; others do not. Physical violence is an extreme,“ he says, adding men who want to experiment against their partner's will cannot distinguish between fantasy and the real world.
 
 Psychiatrist N Rangarajan says some men may like their partners to watch porn along with them.
 
 “Watching a sadomasochistic scene on video and wanting to do the same in real life can result in violence if the partner isn't similarly inclined,“ he says.
 
 Often a woman caught in such a situation has no one to turn to for help. With the apex court not recognising marital rape, the odds are stacked against women.
 
 PCVC does not have any intervention programmes for men, but it does educate women about their rights and focuses on sessions with men regarding consent.
 
