KOLKATA: Eight years after a team of Kolkata Police’s special task force (STF) — led by the then STF head Rajeev Kumar — nabbed three terror suspects, the accused were found guilty by a local court on Friday.

 The accused are believed to be direct recruits of one of India’s most wanted terrorist Shahid Bilal, who operated from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), and acted as linkmen of terrorist groups Harkat-ul-Jihad-al-Islami (HuJI) and   (LeT). The court is expected to deliver the sentence soon.
 
 “The three   — Abdullahil Baki, Abdur Rahman and Tahidur Rahman — accused of planning major subversive activities in the city, were arrested from Esplanade in November 2009. The team recovered fake currency of face value of Rs 30 lakh and explosives — three detonators, gunpowder and wires — from them. A chargesheet was laid within three months followed by a prolonged trial and finally, they were found guilty. The officer investigating this case was officer in charge of Bowbazar police station Santanu Chatterjee, who was earlier with the STF,” read a Facebook post on the Kolkata Police page by Vishal Garg, joint CP (crime).
 
 Police said Baki, suspected to be involved in the 2005 Hyderabad STF headquarters blast, had sneaked into Kolkata with his associates Rahman alias Nafeez and Tahidul to deliver the fake notes that would be flown into the terror network for funding subversive activities. According to investigators, Baki was directly recruited by Bilal, who had plotted more than five terror attacks in India, including the 2006 Shramjeevi Express blast. Baki received training both in Bangladesh and Pakistan, police said.
 
 STF sources said they are still working on two leads provided by the accused a few years ago on Bangladeshi terror links active in the city. The STF is looking for two persons — Gulam alias Piplu and Sarif alias Kanchan — who control the network, recruit cadres, plan their training and manage the circulation of fake notes for the outfit’s funding from Bangladesh.
 
 
