BENGALURU: Bringing his  , a nationwide rally that urges people to do their bit to make  ,   had a clear message for the citizens of India's Silicon Valley, as he led 5,000 students, NGOs and volunteers from the Industrial Training Institute near   on Saturday morning.

 “Bengaluru has helped change the image of India with its innovators,  . Now, standing in the mecca of information technology, I call upon Bengalureans to wage a  ,“ he said, adding that technology can check perversion. “I'm fighting this evil in my own way and mine is a social, legal and moral war.“
 
 Addressing hundreds of people as part of his 11,000km rally which began in Kanyakumari on September 11 and first entered Karnataka on September 15 in Kolar, Satyarthi said it is time the country had a national sex offenders' registry.
 
 “Their names and faces should be on every website and app. Their neighbours must know who they are. They should never get jobs again. If people say when a girl is raped, her honour is lost, we must reverse it such that it is the offender who is humiliated and ashamed,“ he said.
 
 The Nobel laureate has been fighting for child rights for 37 years and launched the Bachpan Bachao Andolan in 1980 to bring child and bonded labourers into the mainstream. Within five months of his march for education in 2001, the Constitution was amended to make education a fundamental right.
 
 “People ask me how a Nobel Peace Prize winner can speak about anger. The voices of the fearful and innocent are getting silenced and that's why I am angry. Let's use our anger for justice, freedom and righteousness. The Bharat Yatra is not an ordinary campaign because crimes against children are not ordinary. They destroy childhoods, kill smiles and cause children's dreams to die. They may be poor and working in mines, factories and in our homes, but we are the ones exploiting them,“ he pointed out.
 
 Satyarthi and his captive audience took a pledge to work to end the exploitation of children by being alert. He also said the practice of shushing abused children in India when they speak out against family members or friends was the sign of a sick society.
 
