MUMBAI: With cricket becoming a round the-year affair, players are forced to live out of suitcases. No sooner would the IPL get over on May 21, the spotlight would shift to the   in England from June 1.
Nevertheless, Indian legend   does not foresee cricket fatigue setting in and believes fans will take guard in front of their television sets the moment players take to the field in one of ICC's showcase events.
 
 "Fans here have watched 45-odd days of high intensity cricket in the IPL, but they will be following India keenly once the Champions Trophy gets underway. Cricket lovers around the world are already waiting for the competition to start," Kapil told TOI on Wednesday, ahead of the launch of broadcaster Star Sports' latest TVC in the run-up to the competition.
 
 The former Indian captain is satisfied with the composition of the side that will be defending its title, and is of the belief that it's for the first time that India's bowlers will be leading the charge in quest for glory.
 
 "The selectors have done a good job. They can't keep everybody happy, so in that context it's a very good team. If you look at previous tours, India depended greatly on their batsmen to flourish and show the way. This is the first time we are depending on four outstanding seam bowlers and two outstanding spinners to deliver the goods. So that's a big change," explained the 58-year-old. But, unlike some of the other top contenders, India will lack a wrist spinner who would have provided greater variety to the attack. Should they have opted for Kuldeep Yadav?
 
 "The selectors would have given this issue a lot of thought. That's why I said, you can't keep everybody happy as peoples' thought processes are different," reckoned Kapil.
 
 What does he make of  , the young showman, who finds himself in the side as an all-rounder? "I think Hardik's shaping up as a batting all-rounder. He's been more successful with the bat than ball of late. I think he has to work a lot on his bowling. He has the potential as he generates pace of 140 kmph consistently. But, he will have to devote more time to bowling, because he's already a fabulous batsman."
 
 Kapil was also full praise for  , the England all-rounder who gave it his all for Rising Pune Supergiant in IPL 10. Does he see glimpses of himself, or any of the great trio of  ,   or   in Stokes, and the large-hearted way in which he approaches his games? "(Laughs). Let's say he is a far better player. He is a fabulous cricketer. I would say he's a better batsman than any of us. But, like Pandya, he has to work very hard on his bowling."
 
 India will clash with Pakistan in their opening Group B game at Edgbaston on June 4. Will passions of the two nations get rekindled or has this fixture got diluted given the dominance that  's side have enjoyed over their opponent in ICC competitions historically?
 
 "Both countries will come to a standstill in the run up to that match. I don't know how people will work as the game draws closer (laughs). It's the most watched event in the world without any doubt," said Kapil.
 
