Pune: Thirteen days after second-year students of Karve Institute of Social Service boycotted their lectures protesting against the fee hike, the college administration decided to roll back the hike. 

 Students will start attending lectures from Wednesday.
 
 “There was a meeting between the college administration and the management on Monday. It was communicated to us on Tuesday that the hiked fee will be rolled back. We will pay the fees as mentioned in the prospectus when we enrolled for the course. We will resume our classes from Wednesday,” a student of Masters in Social Service said. A total of 57 students from her batch were boycotting the lectures.
 
 The strike started on July 5. “ The notice said the tuition fee has increased from Rs 14,980 to Rs 23,280. This is an increase of Rs 8,300. Moreover, the hostel fee was increased from Rs 15,000 to Rs 21,000,” another student said.
 
 After a meeting last Wednesday, vice-chancellor N R Karmalkar called the fee hike illegal and told the management to roll it back. As per the new Universities Act, a fee fixation committee will be set up by the university and only then can the colleges propose and get permission for any hike, he had said.
 
 “There is talk that the boys’ hostel may be shut down,” a student said. Officials at the institute said the management will resolved the issue .
 
 “We have requested the vice-chancellor to expedite the fee revision committees, facilitating the institute for sanctioning vacant posts of teaching faculty, due to retirement of five faculty members pending since the last 4-5 years, non-receipt of non-salary grants, non-receipt of students scholarships and college share since the last 3-4 years. Under these circumstances, it is hard to manage such professional and demand-driven practice based course with only five full-time faculty members, the expenses of professionals, practitioners, field experts, visiting faculty and increasing cost of overhead expenses. It's a tough challenge before all stakeholders. We are not going to compromise with quality,” Deepak Walokar, director of  , said
 
 
