MYSURU: Cracking the   ( ) is no mean feat. Conducted by the Department of Educational Research and Training ( ), many students of class X across the state pourover numerous books in order to perform well in the exam since they can avail of scholarships for higher education. However, scarcity of application forms for the exam has resulted in many   in the city taking up the issue with the department of public instruction (DPI).

 The application forms for NTSE were made available with block education officers (BEOs) across the state from August 28. With DSERT making it clear that the applications would not be uploaded online, with the deadline for submission of application forms elapsing on September 21, several private schools in the city are miffed with the fact that a large number of students were denied the opportunity to apply for the exam for no fault of theirs. 
 
 Principal of Kautilya Vidyalaya L Savita told TOI, “Around 75 students wanted to apply for NTSE, but we got just 25 forms. The remaining students missed the opportunity.” Savita opined that DSERT ought to have uploaded the forms online, which would have allowed all interested students to apply for the examination.
 
 Principals of other city private schools echoed Savita’s concerns. “Owing to the paucity of application forms, we were forced to select students based on their performance in the class tests,” said the principal of another city school.
 
 However, the deputy director of DPI, Mysuru BKS Vardhan refuted these allegations. “We have received no complaints from schools in this regard,” he added. 
 
 BEO, Mysuru north, D Uday Kumar attributed the shortage of application forms to the discrepancies in distribution. “Some schools ended up taking more forms than was allowed. But I ensured that schools did not waste these forms, and asked them to return the applications. And subsequently, these forms were distributed among schools that were facing shortage. In Mysuru north, as many as 700 students applied for the exam, while we still have 200 forms lying in our office,” he told TOI.
 
