BENGALURU: The Aadhaar number may have become mandatory for many key transactions and services, but getting the 12-digit unique identity number is becoming a herculean task for citizens as enrolment in Bengaluru is limited only to a few select BangaloreOne centres and some camp-mode centres. The Locate Enrolment & Update Centres link on the   website lists just 20 centres across three taluks -Bengaluru North, South and Anekal; 64 verified centres in Bengaluru under Tier 1 cities.

 If one tries to contact these centres, either the numbers are defunct or the facility doesn't exist anymore. TOI faced similar issues, especially pertaining to locating centres in east Bengaluru areas like Koramangala, Jayanagar in South Bengaluru and Shantinagar of   and Vijayanagar in West Bengaluru.
 
 Even at centres which are operational, there is a long procedure to get enrolled. Vishwanath D, a resident TOI met at  , said those seeking enrolment have to first get tokens for their slot for enrolment and they are only issued token only on Mondays.
 
 "Usually, those getting tokens are allotted appointments for the next week.When you come after one week, there's no guarantee your enrolment will be done that day . It depends on the number of people waiting there. You have to come back the next day ," he added. Many citizens complain they have to take a day's leave or lose their salary just to get the enrolment done. Sujay NK, a businessmen from Vijayanagar, west Bengaluru, said, "The number of enrolment centres has come down in the past few months and the pres sure on existing ones is mounting and delaying the entire process."
 
 `Focus is on updates' Asked about the problem, a senior UIDAI official said, "The number of enrolment centres has come down as we are done with most of the city's population. As on September 22, we have 90 lakh enrolments. Permanent enrolment centres and some run by agencies will continue operations. In many centres, the demand is more for updating or making corrections in details, so we are forced to slow down enrolment requests."
 
 
 
 Sangesh R, a resident of   in central Bengaluru and project management analyst, had a harrowing tale, and it's just one among many in Bengaluru.He initially could not go to the nearest enrolment centre as his wife was expecting.
 
 "Now, I want to get Aadhaar enrolment done for my wife and kid but there's no centre nearby. I checked with the local corporator, but he expressed helplessness and said UIDAI has withdrawn the centre for reasons unknown to him," he said.
 
 After checking the UIDAI website, he got a list of verified enrolment centres but multiple calls to seek informa tion went in vain.
 
 "Finally, I had to take leave on . Wednesday and visit multiple Bangalore One centres until I finally reached the one in Jayanagar II Block. But the staff there turned us away, saying tokens for the week had been exhausted and advised me to return the Monday next," he said.
 
 "I requested them to help us as I couldn't take leave again, but they refused.
 
 They said there was a lot of rush for Aad haar and the quota for the week was already over," he added.
 
 
 
 Even as banks, telecom service providers and government agencies, among many others, insist on Aadhaar linkages, those who haven't yet got one are struggling as the number of enrolment centres has come down and there's a growing backlog of applicants. The UIDAI must put in place measures to ensure that those who want to enrol are not left running from pillar to post and needlessly waste time and energy. While the unique number is no doubt important for government and private services to confirm one's identity, the process to get it should be streamlined quickly.
 
