GURUGRAM: Three people died in separate   accidents in various parts of the district on Saturday.

 In the first accident, Deepak and his father Pyarelal were returning home in Baliawas village on foot after visiting the Dhaak temple in Bandhwari village on Gurgaon-Faridabad road, when, at around 9.30am, a white Innova approaching from Faridabad allegedly hit Pyarelal, 65, and fled. He died on spot. A case was registered against the unidentified driver at DLF 1 police station, under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of IPC.
 
 In the second case, Gaurav Chauhan (30), who worked in the Honda factory in Khushkhera, Rajasthan, and three of his friends, Himanshu, Mayank and Vipin, were heading towards Dharuhera from Gurgaon in a car when, around 2.30pm, they hit a mini truck s parked on Binola flyover on NH-8 near Pachgaon with a tyre puncture. 
 
 Chauhan, who was driving, died while Himanshu had multiple fractures on his leg. The truck driver and another person were under the truck when the accident took place.
 
 Mayank blamed the truck — parked on the road without indicators — for the accident. Investigating officer SI Subhash said the car collided so hard it had to be cut out from the truck.   registered an FIR under sections 283 (obstruction in public way), 304A (death by negligence), 338 (endangering others’ life) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of IPC.
 
 In the third accident, six youths, aged 19-25 years, were returning from to Delhi from Manesar via NH-8 on three motorcycles on Sunday, when at around 1am, the bike to the right was hit by a   bus in front of the NSG campus. 
 
 Prashant (19) and Harsh (22), who were on the bike, fell. Harsh, who was left unconscious, was taken to Chiranjivi Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Prashant had fractures in his arms and feet. 
 
 An FIR under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (death due to negligence) and 337 (endangering others’ life) of the IPC was registered against the unidentified driver at the Manesar police station.
 
 
