CHENNAI: Water stagnation and   are the monsoon woes that residents brace for every year but this year the brief unexpected showers in the past few weeks have meant the misery has begun sooner.

 Apart from potholes pockmarking the city roads, government departments have been digging up several streets for their work but leaving them damaged. Parts of   near Dhandeeswaram Nagar, stretches of  , MGR Nedun Salai in Kandanchavadi are some areas where motorists have to put up with badly maintained roads. In most of these areas, the   were dug up for laying sewage lines, electricity cables and metrowater lines but were shoddily covered up.
 
 "The entire stretch of MGR Nedun Salai that links Velachery and Perungudi has been dug up for more than a month now. Employees from at least five IT parks use this stretch spanning 300m but only half the road is motorable. It takes at least 15 minutes to cross this stretch during peak hours," said P Sajeev of Kamarajar Nagar Residents Association.
 
 "The Manapakkam main road is also full of potholes, a result of work carried out for storm water drains and metrowater department, apart from digging by electricity board and BSNL. Since last week, work on relaying a limited stretch of 1km has begun, but another 3km of the road needs extensive repairs," said V Nagarajan of Manapakkam. "Similarly, the main road at the entrance to our residential colony in the area is in a bad state. Officials have informed that the work will be taken up soon," he added.
 
 A state highways official, when contacted regarding the Manapakkam Main Road, responded that a broadband company is carrying out cable-laying work, finishing which, the highways would re-lay the road. "The company was allowed to work only after they duly applied for a permit and paid for the restoration charges. We will restore the road as soon as possible after they hand complete work," said the official.
 
 Several stretches of major roads under the city corporation, such as Sardar Patel Road, CSIR Road and   in Dhandeeswaran Nagar are ridden with potholes. The CSIR Road near Ascendas IT park is in a pathetic condition as it has not been relaid properly. 
 
 Sardar Patel Road too has several spots with potholes that residents of Adyar demand should be taken up ahead of the monsoon as the flooding makes the presence of potholes fatal. 
 
 Corporation officials were not available for a comment.
 
