JAIPUR: Rajasthan University’s board of studies will examine the proposal to include a chapter on Swami Shraddhanand (1856-1926), the founder of Bhartiya Hindu Shuddhi Sabha, a body formed to reconvert Muslims, in the humanities curriculum. Swami Shraddhanand was assassinated by Muslim extremist Abdul Rashid in 1926 in Delhi. This topic was proposed by the BJP MLA from Kishenpole constituency of Jaipur and a government nominee in the  , Mohanlal Gupta, at a syndicate meeting held on February 4.

 The minutes of the syndicate meeting uploaded recently says that the board of studies will also examine the topics—Swami Vivekanand and cultural nationalism, ‘vanshawali vidhya’ (science of genealogy), the contribution of Raja Man Singh of Amber in the making of Akbar, and Raja Rai Singh of Bikaner—proposed by the MLA.
 
 “The role of Shraddhanandji in the freedom struggle, culture and national integration should be made known to everyone,” said Gupta.
 
 Swami’s personality had multiple layers: he presided over the   annual session in Amritsar in 1919, worked for women’s education and untouchables, was a staunch supporter of Hindu-Muslim unity and has recited mantras at a mosque in New Delhi in 1919. Due to his difference with Mahatma Gandhi, he quit Congress and joined Hindu Mahasabha.
 
 On Raja Man Singh, the trusted general and strategist of Mughal Emperor Akbar, Gupta said, “It’s very important for the world to recognize the contribution of Man Singh in the making of Akbar. Man Singh won several wars for Akbar, a reason for his vast empire. It is also important to know on what conditions Man Singh supported Mughals and what he received in return.”
 
 Gupta also pitched hard for including ‘vanshawali vidhya’ in the curriculum.
 
 “This science will evoke a sense of pride and belonging to the present generation. It will help us in tracing our forefathers,” he said. He also referred to a book titled ‘Ateek Ka Saksathkar’ to be included in the syllabus.
 
 His has also demanded, which is also there in the minutes, including the book titled ‘Battle of Haldighati’ by Udaipur-based author K S Gupta in the history syllabus.
 
 A major controversy had followed after Gupta told media recently of ‘amending’ the ‘battle of Haldighati’ by declaring that Akbar’s forces were defeated by Maharana Pratap in 1576 on February 4.
 
 Soon after this statement, four cabinet ministers—Kiran Maheshwari (higher education), Vasudev Devnani (school education), Kalicharan Saraf (health) and Rajpal Singh Shekawat (industries)— had joined the chorus by supporting Gupta's demand.
 
 Meanwhile, putting an end to the controversy over ‘amending’ the battle of Haldighati chapters and references in textbooks, Rajeshwar Rao, vice- chancellor of Rajasthan University, has made it clear that history books will not be ‘rewritten’. “Gupta had asked for this book to be introduced and has never asked to ‘rewrite’ history textbooks,” he said.
 
