MUMBAI:   MP   can now fly any Indian carrier. While the Union government had directed   to lift the ban on him on Friday, private Indian carriers followed suit a day later. Gaikwad was barred from flying on March 24.

 “Consequent to AI restoring flying privileges to Gaikwad after being satisfied with the statement given by the MP, the FIA ( , comprising of IndiGo, Jet, SpiceJet and GoAir) members are also restoring the flying privileges to Gaikwad under the assurance that our assets and colleagues shall be accorded the respect that they deserve for the hard work they put in every day,“ said FIA's associate director Ujjwal Dey.
 
 Vistara also lifted the ban on Gaikwad, saying: “Unruly and disruptive passengers are a serious safety and security threat, and we are hopeful this incident results in specific regulations and actions to address this important issue.“
 
 The government too has clarified the MP has not been let off the hook as he will have to face the law in the assault cases filed against him. Union minister of state for civil aviation Jayant Sinha said on Saturday that AI was asked to fly the MP again as he had “apologised and provided an undertaking that such incidents will not reoccur.“
 
 “Police investigations regarding Shri Gaikwad's conduct during the March 23 incident are underway and the law will take its own course... police investigation will determine action. Case has been registered against Shri Gaikwad including Sections 308 (culpable homicide) and 355 (assault) for (the) incident... Police investigation is underway, FIRs have been filed, and justice will surely be delivered,“ Sinha said.
 
 Gaikwad also met Sena president   in Mumbai on Saturday. The meeting, which took place at Sena Bhavan, lasted barely 10 minutes. The Sena MP offered his version of the assault story to Thackeray.
 
 That Gaikwad has become a political liability to Matoshree became clear as neither Uddhav nor the MP spoke to the media after the meeting. “There was no Sena-style jubilation at the party headquarters, and Sainiks were restrained from raising slogans in Gaikwad's support. He quietly walked into Sena Bhavan and walked out without creating any ripples,“ said a party 'vibhag pramukh'.
 
