NEW DELHI: Probing controversial Islamic preacher Zakir Naik’s alleged funding of terrorists, the   is looking into suspicious payments of Rs 42 lakh to  , a guest relation manager with his NGO IRF, who was arrested in July 2016 for allegedly radicalising some Kerala youths to join the   terror group.

 While checking the financial details of Islamic Research Foundation (IRF),   sleuths recently noticed payments of Rs 42 lakh to Arshi in bank documents, sources said. Whether this payment, which has been made over a period of time, has been used to fund any suspect is being looked at, they said.
 
 Sources said they are looking into the transactions and it could be regular salary payments as well. The bank documents analysed by NIA sleuths raised eyebrows as recently it was found that IRF paid Rs 1.5 lakh to Rajasthan-based IS operative Abu Anas in the form of scholarship payments.
 
 Arshi Qureshi came under the scanner of agencies in July last year during a joint operation by Kerala and Mumbai police after it was found that he could be linked to radicalisation of 21 missing people, including women and children, from Kerala, who travelled to IS territory.
 
 It was alleged that Arshi had a role in radicalising some of these youths and he also converted many to Islam over a period of time before being booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act.
 
 NIA is probing a larger conspiracy by   and his NGO IRF for radicalising Muslim youths and also terror funding. IRF had come in support of Arshi saying he “has never forced a single person into conversion against his or her free will, as it is against Islam. We emphatically deny all allegations”.
 
 The development comes a week after NIA questioned Zakir Naik’s sister Nailah Naushad Noorani, his brother-in-law Naushad Noorani, his friend and associate for past 21years in IRF — Manzoor Shaikh — apart from several relatives and colleagues.
 
 Sources had claimed that Nailah, who is director and additional director in five private companies — Harmony Media Pvt Ltd, Longlast Constructions Pvt Ltd, Right Property Solutions Pvt Ltd, Majestic Perfumes and Alpha Lubricants Pvt Ltd — was examined about the funding of these companies. These firms had close links with IRF. She is learnt to have told NIA that she “handled the companies as her brother had asked her to”.
 
