PANAJI:   has strengthened its   by joining hands with Drishti Lifesaving Pvt Ltd with the latter’s lifeguards serving as eyes and ears of the police along the 165 km-long coastline. 

 The move will help the police to step up counter terror measures and tackle crime more effectively on the beach belt.
 
 The police and   discussed ways to enhance interaction, communication and coordination between each other at the Lifeguard training centre, in Sinquerim, on Thursday. They also deliberated ways to improve the experience of people visiting the beaches in the state.
 
 Speaking to TOI, North Goa superintendent of police (SP) Karthik Kashyap said, we want Drishti lifeguards to be Goa police’s eyes and ears on the beaches. “Any sensitive information which they observe on the beaches they should immediately bring to our notice that is the aim of the programme,” he said.
 
 The session included procedures to report and handle casualties, assistance from the police to handle aggressive tourists on the beaches and deployment of IRB personnel at some of the less popular beaches which have seen a surge of crowds in recent times, especially over weekends and holidays.
 
 With the summer holidays soon approaching, beaches will witness a large number of visitors, both local and tourists. The police and Drishti Lifesaving Pvt Ltd also put in place an effective strategy to combat the increase in private vehicles on the beaches.
 
 SP (crime)   said that everyone should learn the basics in first aid skills, including police and requested Drishti Lifesaving Pvt Ltd to conduct a workshop on first aid & CPR for the police.
 
 Drishti Lifesaving Pvt Ltd MD Ankit Somani assured the police of his team’s cooperation in the effort to offer an enjoyable experience to visitors to the beaches and to strengthen security along the coast.
 
 Any sensitive information which they observe on the beaches they should immediately bring to our notice. Lifeguards will be our eyes & ears on the beach.
 
