NAGPUR: The   office near   witnessed high drama on Tuesday when 40 engineering students backed by around 30 National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) members stormed it over alleged   worth crores. 

 The atmosphere inside remained tense for about half an hour as NSUI activists entered the assistant commissioner Vijay Wakulkar’s cabin. At one point, NSUI vice president climbed Wakulkar’s table to push for immediate action. Cops from Bajaj Nagar police station too were called but they returned after the students assured to amicably discuss the issue. 
 
 Following this, Wakulkar issued notice to only   and Management, Butibori. But, the students demanded that nearly all engineering colleges are guilty and an audit of all should be conducted. 
 
 “The department is simply delaying the process and not asking engineering colleges to present bank statements and scholarship data. This is because the department was hand-in-glove with the colleges,” NSUI national delegate Ashish Mandape said. 
 
 He said the department is using all its might to conceal important documents regarding the scholarship. “We have been asking them to show us documents and data. After warning of violence, they revealed some of the papers. There is one more bunch that we sought but the department has hidden it,” he said.
 
 The aggrieved students were upset over the department’s dilly-dallying in issuing show cause notices to several city engineering colleges who allegedly held back exam fees of over 7,000 reserved category beneficiaries.
 
 On March 3, 2017, a couple of engineering students from SC and   quota had brought the issue of colleges holding exam fee while disbursing scholarships to them. They had informed the department about how the colleges were exploiting students’ ignorance about the exam fee disbursal. Then, the NSUI had set April 20 deadline for the department to recover the money. 
 
 On Tuesday, the students made it clear to Wakulkar that they won’t be leaving the premises till he issued notices to colleges and took concrete steps.
 
 Explaining how the colleges allegedly orchestrated the scam, Mandape said the final amount could well be in hundreds of crores. “The exam fee for one term is 4,272 for SC students and 2,340 for OBC. Under the scholarship, the colleges have to disburse exam fee for all four terms. But, some colleges on the pretext of adhering to the department’s notice of March release exam of only one term for 150 students. There are about 7,000 students who didn’t receive the fee over the last couple of years,” he said.
 
 Wakulkar couldn’t be contacted for his comment.
 
