PANAJI: Farmers  , who had previously   due to crashing prices, can now consider growing it again.   have jumped a whopping Rs 35,000 per kg, compared to Rs 7,000 per kg in 2016.

 In the early 2000s, international buyers turned to India for fresh vanilla and offered lucrative prices. Many farmers took up vanilla cultivation. Initially, they felt encouraged after commanding Rs 50,000 per kg for processed vanilla beans. Then prices came crashing and with it there was lesser incentive for the crop.
 
 Despite being a high maintenance crop (for the hand pollination and curing processes), Goan farmers laboriously cultivated the ‘golden fruit’, enjoying the global windfall.
 
 “Vanilla fetches a good price because it is used as a flavouring agent in food, and as fragrance in other products,” said senior scientist at ICAR-central coastal agricultural research Institute (CCARI), A R Desai.
 
 It might not be easy going after all. Agriculture director Ulhas Pai Kaode said, “Even though there is an international market for vanilla beans, the demand is not as much locally. People prefer the synthetic essence compared to the organic bean, thus discouraging farmers from growing the orchid commercially in Goa.”
 
 Mass production and easy availability brought prices crashing to the extent that the once-pricey product dropped to Rs2,000 a kg. Along with it came much disappointment for farmers who had jumped aboard and had been painstakingly growing the crop. It ended up in gloom when farmers across Goa resorted to uprooting the crop.
 
 Netravali-based   kept going merely for the love of growing the delicate plant. Having meticulously grown the beans for 13 years, he is perhaps one of the few in Goa who has gained from this season’s trend.
 
 Selling green vanilla pods in bulk fetches him Rs27,000 per kg, while prices for the processed vanilla beans go even higher. He attributed the reason for the sudden rise in prices to a plant disease, which has reportedly wiped out much of Karnataka’s and Kerala’s vanilla cultivation. The high-demand-low-supply phenomenon has thus led to skyrocketing prices this season.
 
 Agriculture experts are of the opinion that once all variables are back to normal, prices are likely to fluctuate again. Desai said, “The high prospects of vanilla may not continue for long. Rates will fluctuate again once the situation normalizes.”
 
 
