The BMC, if it has its way, will soon leave home buyers to the mercy of   and  . In a final draft of a new policy for granting   (OCs) to new constructions - considered the municipal corporation's stamp of approval to a building's compliance with civic regulations -the   has proposed to let developers and their architects make their own OCs and merely submit them to the BMC for approval.

 The draft policy titled `New Standard Operating Procedure to Grant OCs' says that BMC officers will no longer visit construction sites and inspect buildings. While this is being ostensibly done to speed up issuing of OCs, experts said it will expose buyers to the risk of being cheated because the BMC can at a later date hold the builder, architect and the occupiers of a building accountable to  . In short, the BMC wants all the power over new constructions in the city but no responsibility.
 
 The draft policy, which now awaits only Municipal Commissioner Ajoy Mehta's approval, says that architects will submit online applications for seeking OCs. The architects will have to inspect the buildings under their care in accordance to the approved plans and submit a certificate stating that the structures have been completed as per the approved plans, a job earlier carried out by BMC officials.
 
 The architects will also have to submit a list of variations or discrepancies thereof. If the variations are of minor `approvable nature' and there is no violation of FSI norms, then those will be incorporated in the occupation plan after charging the developer a fine.
 
 The new policy, which makes it mandatory for the architect to upload video clips along with photographs of the entire building, also makes it clear that BMC engineers and staff will not be held responsible for any irregularities. “If any deviations are observed in the completed individual premises for which occupation is granted, the building proposal staff will not be held responsible,“ the policy says. Once cleared by Mehta, the new Standard Operating Procedure for Granting OCs will be incorporated in the BMC's manual for ease of doing business.
 
 President of Mumbai Grahak Panchyat Shirish Deshpande said the BMC's draft policy leaves buyers vulnerable. “It is the statutory duty of BMC to issue an OC. How is the BMC going to tackle the issue of misuse of FSI, if there are violations of fire refuge area, or there is no proper sewerage disposal system? “ Another consumer activist, who did not wish to be identified, said the new policy will wedge a buyer between unscrupulous builders and corrupt officials.“What happens when the BMC finds illegalities at a later stage? The buyers will suffer,“ he said.
 
 While architects have welcomed the BMC move, they too believe the BMC can't absolve itself of its primary duty. “The BMC is a regulatory authority. It can't outsource its primary duty and responsibility like this,“ said a leading architect.
 
 Municipal Commissioner Ajoy Mehta said all stakeholders will be consulted before the new policy is approved. “The whole idea is to smoothen and speed up the process of granting an OC. This is part of our ease of doing business initiative,“ he said.
 
