PATNA: Gone are the days when parents didn’t approve of their kids spending time on social networking sites. The millennial moms are delighted to create account with their baby’s name on it on   within moments of delivering a child.
 
  The trend is picking up on social media like   and Instagram as many parents believe having an account on social media is as important as possessing an identity card like Aadhaar while others want to preserve all the sweet memories of their children from the first gurgle to taking the first step.
  
   , a 27-year-old mother, loves to keep a Facebook account of her son Aarav Kumar. “After he was born in April 2016, I decided to sign up an account for him to preserve all the good memories of his life. My father and mother often asked me to send his pictures. Having an account of his own on social media is very easy to share his pictures with family, relatives and friends. Last week, we celebrated his first birthday and updated as much picture on his account as possible, so that he can look back when he is young enough to know all this,” she said.
  
    said she created her little girl Ebrah’s Facebook and Instagram accounts and keeps them up to date. “I think everything my daughter does is cute and I would love to post pictures of whatever she does,” said the 25-year-old mother. She not only post pictures but also shares videos.
  
  “The day she was born (Jan 5, 2016), I signed up her on Facebook. Since then, my husband and I regularly post her pictures and videos. In our times, we only had albums and most of our childhood pictures were misplaced. I think social media is a good way to preserve all memories of my daughter, including her first meal, first pet, first trip and so on, so that she can recall all her childhood memories. The other good thing is that there is no space crunch,” said Sabrina.
  
  Prachi Priya, 30, wants to capture every moment of her daughter’s life and hand over the social media account to her when she is a grown-up girl. “At first I kept posting pictures on my account. Ultimately I decided to create an account in my daughter’s name. When she turned one (few months ago), she even gave pout pose which is very cute and people like it,” she said.
