Dadri: With the state assembly election round the corner, the footfall in   village of people who matter has increased again as candidates of different political parties have started campaigning for votes. Every day, two to three candidates, accompanied by their supporters, visit the village with folded hands and meet local people, full of promises about what they will do for the village once they are elected.

 Ramesh Singh Rawal, a candidate of Rashtriya Pratap Sena, was seen campaigning in the village with his supporters on Wednesday. He said that he was connecting with the locals and getting a good response. “I will work for the farmers and the middle class people if I win,” said Rawal, a retired army officer.
 
 Villagers are, however, unhappy with the turn of events in the last one and a half years since the murder of Mohammad   on September 28, 2015. They feel the village has been portrayed in a wrong manner, which has affected the identity of the residents.
 
 Locals prefer not to comment on what happened on the night of September 28, 2015, when Akhlaq was lynched by a mob for allegedly consuming and storing beef. But they feel that the murder was hijacked by some people with vested interests for political gains.
 
 Akhilesh Sisodiya, a resident, said that top leaders of all political parties including Rahul Gandhi, Arvind Kejriwal and Asaduddin Owaisi, had visited Bisada after the incident, but not a single development project has taken place yet.
 
 “There are potholes in the village roads, which makes commuting difficult. We don’t have pure drinking water. The quality of groundwater is deteriorating by the day. Electricity supply is erratic here. There is no hospital in the village,” Sisodiya said. “There is only one school in the village, which both boys and girls attend. The number of students has increased now. We need a separate school for girls,” another resident added.
 
 Locals are tired of the unfulfilled promises made by politicians. “BSP candidate Satveer Singh Gurjar won the assembly election twice from   constituency, but never visited the village. We want our elected candidate to address the problems we face,” Sisodiya said.
 
 
