ROHTAK: The   of Paintawas village under   district on Monday banned   to check   and water logging in the area. In a decision taken unanimously by the panchayat, it was decided to impose a fine of Rs 51,000 on any farmer for breach of conduct.

 Some years ago, Charkhi village of the district had imposed similar restrictions. Last year, one dozen villages in Charkhi Dadri district had lost standing crop due to water logging.
 
 Kamod village sarpanch Sudharshan Kumar said villages in Charkhi Dadri were facing acute shortage of water and water logging at the same time. “Crops in over one dozen villages in the district had been damaged due to excessive rain, resulting in accumulation of water,” he said.
 
 Ramswaroop Singh, who presided over the panchayat, said the water table in lowlying villages on   road was plummeting at an alarming rate. “On the one side, there is no water for drinking and on the other, rain water gets accumulated, which poses threat to residential areas. Farmers who sow paddy resort to water theft, which leads to tussles in the village,” he said.
 
 As per the agriculture department estimates, more than 3,500 acre land in low-lying villages of Charkhi Dadri was prone to waterlogging due to excessive rain and the district had failed to meet the target of rabi crop.
 
 Villages which are hit the most are Jaishree, Kamod, Rawaldhi, Bond, Jhinger, Khatiwas, Dhani Phogat, Samaspur, Imlota, Mirch, Kanheti, Paintawas, Morwala and Mishri.
 
 Randhir Singh, a resident of Dadri, said the problem had been prevailing for six-seven years, but became unbearable in 2016.
 
 Farmers claimed that the back to back losses in crops due to the shortage of water because of paddy sowing have proved to be a loss venture for the majority of the farmers.
 
 The variety of paddy sown here is prone to disease, which spreads in crops sown nearby, claim farmers.
 
 Charkhi Dadri deputy director of agriculture Atma Ram Godara said there was hardly a place in the district or southern Haryana which had normal water table. He said agriculture department guides farmers to sow crop that should not consume more water to restore water table in their respective areas.
 
 
