MUMBAI: A 33-year-old serial sex pest was handed life imprisonment on Tuesday for raping a 10-year-old girl in Andheri in 2014.

 Convicting Ayyaz Ansari, special judge   of a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act court said the minor’s evidence was reliable and inspired confidence. “The prime reason for attaching such importance to the testimony of the victim is that a girl or a woman in the tradition-bound, non-permissive society of India would be extremely reluctant to falsely implicate or even admit to any incident which is likely to reflect on her chastity or put at risk her own image, dignity, reputation in society,” said the judge.
 
 Ansari, who will be jailed till his death, has been found guilty in another case earlier. In all, there are 25 cases against him. The court found him guilty under IPC and Pocso sections for rape, unnatural sexual offences and kidnapping. He was fined Rs 45,000.
 
 In a reflection of his warped mind, a smile played on Ansari’s face as the sentence was pronounced.
 
  after special public prosecutor   sought the maximum punishment for him. 
 
 The court directed the   to compensate the survivor.
 
 The court refuted the defence plea that Ansari was falsely implicated by the child’s grandmother, the complainant, under police pressure. “There is no reason for the grandmother to implicate the accused. The grandmother of a girl child aged 10 years would never implicate a person like the accused only since the police asked her to. She will not dare to put dignity, reputation and honour of her girl child at stake.... due to the stigma attached,” the court said.
 
 The girl, one of the 12 witnesses examined, identified the accused in court. In her deposition in October 2015, she told the court she was a student of Class V at the time of the incident on January 17, 2014. She had returned from school as usual at noon to the home she shared with her maternal uncle and two aunts since her childhood. Around 7pm, she had stepped out to a shop nearby to buy paneer.
 
 When she was on her way back, she saw a man on the staircase. “Uncle asked me whether my father was home. When I said no, uncle asked me to go along with him, he will give me a number,” she recalled. The man took her to a nearby deserted building and, threatening her with a knife, raped her, performed oral sex and even forced her to do the same.
 
 He let her go after threatening her that he would kill her if she told anybody what had happened. But the next day, she opened up to one of her aunts. She told the child’s grandmother, who was living with her other son. The grandmother rushed to the house and the family registered a case with the D N Nagar police. The girl was sent for medical examination and the results corroborated with her statement.
 
 The police managed to zoom in on the accused based on the description — the man had a defective eye — given by the girl and a neighbor who had seen him with the girl. The sketches of the accused were already being circulated due to his prior offences. He was arrested about three months later. 
 
