 (SAD) leader and former Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) mayor Harjinder   has been selected as the new chairperson of the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR). A total 13 people had applied for the post. With more than 20 years of experience in the field of awareness generation, and development o f children and youth through entrepreneurship and skill development programmes at the national and international levels, Kaur says that a child-friendly Chandigarh will be her top priority. She has been Women and Child Welfare director at the   for more than 20 years.

 TOI learns more from her about her plans on making a creative, skill-based world for children in Chandigarh.
 
 
 
 After four terms in the corporation, I saw no growth for myself. It was always my passion to work for children and youth, so it is like a homecoming for me. I have always been in this field of children and youth development. It was later that I joined politics. This is my field of interest and my passion. When I saw the advertisement, I knew it was time to shift.
 
 
 
 My attraction for the post was that since it is a new commission, and a good start has been made to it, I saw a huge scope of doing something more. I see that Chandigarh has a huge scope. I made one slogan with the adviser that I would like to go for a child friendly Chandigarh. It covers everything. Even my friends said this was my area where I could contribute a lot. Nature has placed me at the right place.
 
 
 
 
 It is totally based on merit, and no political interference was required or done. Child development has been my silent field of work and passion. Even now, I have been related to a charity school for children, and I go there every morning. When I went for the interview, I specially took along my annual report on the work done with children and youth to ensure I get it because of my work. I am clear that I have entered socially to this post, and it will have nothing to do with politics.
 
 
 
 
 It is too early to say that. I r will see what s has been done and how, and make a road map for the future. It is a young commission which is three years old, and great work has been done. Rest, I have set a bench mark everywhere I have worked, which has not been matched by anyone so far, so that will be my aim here as well. My aim will be to have a system of which Chandigarh can take pride, in saying that Chandigarh is a child friendly city.
 
 
 
 
 Children have huge potential and energy, which needs to be channelized, for which programmes like skill development should be introduced. I will focus on keeping children busy in a creative way. But it is not one organization's responsibility to do that. Everyone has to work in unity . Chandigarh has a lot of elite and intellectual assets, from senior citizens to NGOs. We will sensitize everyone and give them ownership that we have to focus on children, and provide a healthy environment, and that can be done by creating a parent child like bonding between them.
 
 
 
 
 I see that follow-up has been an issue. I will work out a plan for proper follow-up, and a system to ensure laid-down guidelines are implemented by one and all in spirit and action. Like if the police sees child beggars, then they have to take them under their care, provide day care, and ensure they remain busy in some activities. Implementation and follow-up is a must.
 
