CHANDIGARH: Associated with   alleged control over the Punjab unit, Aam Aadmi party ( ) is set to let go of the zonal in charge-based hierarchy from its organizational structure soon. The post of the state convener too could be rechristened.

 Even though the proposal will be formally put up before the political affairs committee (PAC) of the party after the Delhi municipal elections, brainstorming for a new organizational structure is already on. Confirming the move, AAP Punjab convener   told TOI, “The attempt is to have an organizational structure that can be understood by the party volunteers and is on traditional lines. However, a final decision will be taken by the PAC.”
 
 Asked if there could also be changes in the core team that worked during the state assembly elections, Waraich said the contribution made by the party leaders would be evaluated. “It is not about the election results but the amount of effort that was put in by party cadres at different levels,” he said.
 
 Sources, meanwhile, added that the AAP high command has already asked for a proposal in this regard. As part of the analysis of AAP’s defeat, party leaders had confided that the attempt by rivals to put “outsider” tag on the party did have an impact. A section of original volunteers of the party has also quit alleging that the 52 observers and a dozen zone in charge appointed by the Delhi leadership called the shots, giving little authority to the local leaders.
 
 Earlier, in the run up to the assembly election, the party had decided to appoint 60-odd local party leaders as observers for the 117 assembly constituencies to replace the 13 zone observers in September last year.
 
 “There is need for such changes as the party’s state committee had been rendered defunct with only Chhotepur holding the post of the state convener at that time. Even after being removed, many of the zone observers continued to remain active in the state and had direct access to the party leadership,” said a party volunteer.
 
 On Sunday, at a meeting of party workers in Jalandhar, the demand for having a proper structure in the party was raised and questions were also raised at the nomenclature of the state convener’s post. Earlier, at another meeting of the party on March 21 in Jalandhar to discuss the poll results, there was criticism of the Delhi leadership for not taking the state unit along.
 
 On the cards
 
 — New organizational structure proposal
 
 — Post of state convener could be rechristened
 
 — Final decision by PAC after MCD elections
 
 — Delhi-centric system of zone observers to go
 
 — Some heads could also roll
 
