HYDERABAD: Minorities received a raw deal in the Telangana state budget 2017-18 with an allocation of Rs 1,249.66 crore, a mere increase of Rs 45 crore over last year's budgetary allocation. While other 'disadvantageous sections' received a hefty increase in the welfare allocation, minorities got a mere 3.5 per cent increase as compared to 2016-17. 

 Compared with the Union Budget of the Modi government, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao fared better on the minorities' welfare front. Telangana with just 50 lakh minorities has allocated almost one-third of the budgetary provisions made by the BJP government in the Union Budget for minorities' welfare.
 
 While the Centre has allocated Rs 4,195 crore for a minority population of about 25 crore across the nation, the Telangana government proposed Rs 1,249.66 crore for 50 lakhs minorities in the state. This means, minorities in Telangana, who make up just two per cent of the total minorities in the country, have received 33 per cent of India's budgetary allocation for minorities' welfare. 
 
 A majority of the minorities in the state are hit by poverty, illiteracy and social backwardness. 
 
 All religious minorities - Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists and Parsis - together number about 50 lakh. Adjusted against inflation, the benefits that will accrue from the "hiked" allocation will actually come down.
 
 Except for three sentences that boast of the government's commitment to minorities, extolling the age-old 'Ganga-Jamuni Tehzeeb" (communal harmony), and celebrations of Ramadhan and Christmas as state festivals, the state budget did not actually offer much.
 
  The increase will just suffice for paying the increased monthly honorarium to Imams and Muezzins (from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500 a month) and throwing 'lavish' parties during Ramadhan and Christmas.
 
 The minister simply reiterated the post matric scholarships without committing an increase either in the budgetary allocation or the number of beneficiaries. Even the much-touted residential schools for minorities continues to remain on paper with only one-third of the 201 institutions promised a year ago.
 
