LUCKNOW: China Bazar at the fag end of Hazratganj is the ‘Mecca’ of Awadhi delicacies here. The aroma of crisply fried galawat kababs mixed with saffron flavour of hotly served biryanis can tickle any passer-by into a gastronomic ecstasy. Although the fabled Tunday is not a part of this food market, the GenNext kababis have turned the area into favourite hunting ground for foodies, both home-grown and migrants. In election time, it has also become a political animals’ melting pot where one can feel the pulse of the city that will vote 24 hours from now.

 Going by the traditional picture of a poll-bound town, Lucknow hardly presents one. Call it DeMon effect or hawk-eyes of election commission, roadsides are almost bereft of life-size hoardings and cutouts – in fact city squares have more billboards of freshly launched TV channels with life-size pictures of their editors peeping out of them. But yes, at places like this, where poll campaign foot-soldiers take a much-deserving break over mouth-watering chicken masala and paper thin roomalis, one can get a sense of many a battle being fought here.
 
 “If Akhilesh is out in the field with ‘Kaam Bolta Hai” (work speaks for itself) war cry, nowhere it would be tested more vigorously than in Lucknow,” says Ravi Shukla, trying to scratch the last morsel of dessert -- ‘phirni’ -- off his earthen bowl. After all, a majority of development works SP is showcasing to voters across the state is linked to Lucknow – from Metro train to Lucknow-Agra Expressway and from Gomti Riverfront to  .
 
 The Metro and Expressway, in fact, are the two starred points of his ‘development discourses’. He mentions them in his speeches everywhere, even inviting a retort from Prime Minister Modi. “SP’s biggest hope is that its government’s projects in the state capital would help it repeat the stellar performance of 2012, at least here,” says Kamil Rizvi, a businessman in Old City area.
 
 A saffron bastion since 1991, when the city became a second home of Ram Temple movement after Ayodhya and Atal Bihari Vajpayee adopted this parliamentary seat, Lucknow took a U-turn in 2012. In the previous polls, nine of its assembly seats elected seven MLAs from SP. So, it’s a double trap shooting challenge for the ruling party this time – to prove that its development works really impressed voters and repeat the previous performance.
 
 The BJP’s campaign to regain its lost bastion is spearheaded by three turncoats – Rita Joshi in Cantonment, Brijesh Pathak in Lucknow Central, who switched over from BSP just before the polls and Neeraj Bora, who has been with Congress and BSP in the last, in Lucknow West.
 
 Three Akhilesh ministers are locked in a pitched battle to save their respective terrains with different challenges. If Abhishek Mishra is fighting anti-incumbency in Lucknow North, Ravidas Mehrotra has to battle against alliance partner Congress’s candidate as well, who is very much in the race despite official orders from both the parties.
 
 In Sarojininagar, the third minister SP Shukla is not even an SP candidate. An old Mulayam loyalist, he was denied ticket in favour of Akhilesh’s cousin Anurag Yadav. Shukla then took to the battlefield as an RLD nominee. He has now been sacked from the party, but is working overtime to make the going tough for the SP candidate.
 
 Battling against such odds, if SP manages to even reach closer to 2012 show in the state capital, give credit to Akhilesh’s ‘kaam’.
 
