For the state government, the protection and preservation of indigenous bulls is not a swift goal formed out of the   row, but a mandate under Article 48 of the Constitution of India. In the last few weeks, an argument that has repeatedly articulated itself is that the ban on jallikattu will decimate Tamil Nadu’s indigenous cattle breeds. However, jallikattu is just one of the determining factors among the decades of conservation work and research that several NGOs and the state animal husbandry department have been carrying out in preserving indigenous cattle breeds and to a large extent, producing significant results with.

 According to T Abraham, director of animal husbandry department, directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services, the state maintains some of the most genetically superior Kangayam, Umbalacheri, Alambadi and Bargur bulls — handpicked and periodically evaluated to be used for insemination.
 
 "We have close to 5,000 artificial insemination centres across the state, which conduct 60 to 70 lakh inseminations annually. We have been working to continuously improve these breeds genetically," says Abraham. He adds that the positive effects of native breed expansion through genetic selection and artificial insemination will take time to show. However, under current circumstances, with challenges such as economic non-viability for farmers, diminishing grazing lands and water deficit, native cattle continue to suffer.
 
 While our native breeds produce 900-1000 litres of milk every yield, exotic breeds such as Jersey or Holstein produce up to 2400 litres, say experts. However, native bulls are robust, and when bred with these exotic cattle, result in offspring that retain the best of both worlds.
 
 But the science of selection through karyotyping and gene mapping are fairly new, whereas farmers rearing jallikattu bulls for generations have based their selection purely on phenotypes — or gauging the animal by its observable characteristics. And 90 out of 100 times, they are right, say experts. "And this is where jallikattu as a breed conservation technique comes in," says an official from the animal husbandry department.
 
 Ramakrishnan, a Puliakulam bull breeder from Sivagangai, agrees that the ban on jallikattu has shrunk his sale of male calves over the last two years. While calves picked up for jallikattu or breeding fetched him `10,000 each, since the ban, he’s had to sell them for `5,000.
 
 And yet, the animals bought for jallikattu were never used for breeding, he says. "The jallikattu bull is reared to be aggressive. It can often barely be controlled by its owner, and cannot be used for breeding. And the bulls picked up for breeding are not used for jallikattu," he adds. 
 
 "Calves for jallikattu are picked purely based on their build, appearance and other physical attributes and are prepared to aggressively perform on field. But, animals selected for breeding are chosen based on several criteria — the milk yield of the mother, her lactations etc," says P Vivekanandan, secretary of Madurai-based Sustainable – Agriculture and Environment Voluntary Action (SEVA). The NGO has been working towards the conservation of agricultural biodiversity and local livestock breeds for two decades. 
 
 "Jallikattu bull owners spend close to `300 a day for its upkeep. But, if they bought healthy cattle to breed, they can make close to ` 2,000 a month," he adds.
 
 But the biggest determiner to a productive population of native breeds is their access to traditional grazing lands and availability of water, he says. "While this is facilitated under The Scheduled Tribes and Other Forest dwellers Forests Rights Act 2006, it is poorly implemented by the forest officials, and this has been one of our greatest challenges," he adds.
 
 Email your feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com
 
 
