CHENNAI/BENGALURU: Thick edges flying over the point boundary or mishits crossing the ropes had become part and parcel of cricket in the last few years. The  , in its attempt to bring in a sense of parity to the contest between bat and ball has introduced a new rule whereby the edges of the bats can't be more than 40mm while the depth of the blade has been stipulated to a maximum of 67mm.

 There are about 10 players across the world who will have to shave some wood off their bats and   and   are two of them. While the depth of Warner's bat used to be 85mm, a good 18mm extra than the new stipulated limit, Dhoni's bat edge, according to earlier reports, was 45mm. The bats used by other Indian players -including   -are well within limits.
 
 Warner, for one, has already started working with a new bat. “My bats have already been changed. I've been using those for the last couple of weeks. In Bangladesh, I was getting used to it and it is basically the same bat that I started my career with,”Warner said on Wednesday .
 
 While spinner Yuzvendra Chahal confirmed that he has no information about any Indian player changing the size of the bat, a team source said that players are not in a hurry as the rule comes into effect only from the next series. “No one in the team is bothered about it. Firstly , it's not for the current series and secondly , everyone has to make the change, so nobody is going to be affected,”the source said.
 
 While Warner says that he is “just going to go back to where I started”,  , the batting coach at the   says that it won't affect the Indian younger generation at all.“Firstly, the thick bats are generally customized and provided by the manufacturer to some of the top stars. I don't think any of the kids at the NCA use such bats.And secondly , it's more about skillset than bat-size. If a player has the skill, then only he can hit the ball out of the park, not just because the bat size has been altered,”Raman told TOI.
 
 Warner, too, harped on the same point.“I think everyone's sort of been misled in a way where they think the big bats clear the fences easier than what the old bats used to.”
 
 
