MUMBAI: In a rare case, a   claims tribunal recently held that if you are drunk and die in an accident, your contributory negligence in the accident amounts to just 25%; the rest of the blame lies with the other party.

 The tribunal’s reasoning came while deciding the 2008 case of a 33-year-old drunk biker who was killed after a   rammed into his two-wheeler. At the time of the fatal accident, the biker was riding with two others on Holi.
 
 The civic body has now been ordered to pay a total compensation of Rs 38.1 lakh to the biker’s kin. The tribunal held that the driver of the heavy vehicle was “more responsible for causing the accident”.
 
 Referring to the FIR, the tribunal said, “The deceased was under the influence of alcohol when he was riding the motorcycle, but at the same time, the driver of the dumper was duty-bound to control his vehicle.”
 
 While calculating the compensation, the tribunal kept in mind the victim’s annual income of Rs 1.4 lakh and loss of future earnings. 
 
 It stated that compensation payable to the family was Rs 24.75 lakh. However, while deducting 25% towards the victim’s contributory negligence, the tribunal brought down the figure to Rs 18.6 lakh. Additionally, the compensation amount also includes Rs 1 lakh towards loss of companionship of a spouse, Rs 1 lakh towards the loss of love and affection suffered by the mother and son and Rs 50,000 for loss of estate and towards funeral expenses incurred. The total amount of Rs 21 lakh also attracts an annual simple interest, bringing the total amount to Rs 38.1 lakh.
 
 The application for compensation was filed in June 2008 by six members of the victim, Pravin Mane’s family, including his wife, minor son, mother and siblings. The victim ran a garment business at the time of his death. The family told the tribunal that the accident took place on March 22, 2008, around 2.15pm. They claimed that while Mane was riding the bike with due care and caution at a moderate speed, the truck rammed into it at full speed in a rash and negligent manner. Mane sustained multiple injuries and died before he could be admitted to hospital.
 
 The   denied that the driver, on his way from the Deonar dumping ground to collect garbage from Vikhroli, was rash and negligent. It alleged that the driver had given a signal before taking a left turn. The BMC alleged that at that time, Mane’s bike came at high speed from the opposite direction and collided with the front and middle portion of the truck. “All the three riders seated on the motorcycle were under the influence of alcohol and so the accident occurred solely due to the negligence of the deceased as he could not control his motor cycle,” the BMC submitted.
 
