GURUGRAM: Lying in a corner, in a duffel bag whose colour is hard to fathom because of a thick layer of dust, is the only chemical suit that the Sector 29   has. At Sector 37, the dorm is a rectangular space with stained yellow walls and a rough floor on which a thin rug is spread out to let people sleep.

  are one of the most critical components of any city’s emergency response. But if you wouldn’t know that if you visited the city’s fire stations. There are five fire stations in Gurgaon — in Sector 29, Sector 37, Udyog Vihar, Bhim Nagar and Manesar — and 164 firefighters (there is another private one that is run by DLF, which is state-of-the-art and fully equipped and also has the 90-metre hydraulic platforms needed to reach upper floors of highrises).
 
 And this continues despite a National Disaster Response Force survey last year concluding that Gurgaon needs at least 17 fire stations and 344 fire tenders to effectively tackle fire hazards. Worse, even the existing ones don’t have enough equipment.
 
 “We have to jump into fires with barely any equipment in our hands. Oxygen cylinders lying in the station are faulty. There are no masks or gloves given to us. The department doesn’t even give us uniforms, we have to get them stitched on our own,” said a fireman at Udyog Vihar fire station.
 
 At the Sector 29 fire station, which is the largest in the city, there are eight firefighting vehicles, of which only one has a hydraulic platform. But this one can only reach up to the 13th floor of a highrise. “Since we have only one such vehicle, we are left with no option but to take help from DLF private firefighters who have hydraulic platforms that can reach most highrises in the city,” said Anil Huda, a driver at the fire station.
 
  
  Rajesh Kumar, the lead fireman at the station, said, “We have walkie-talkies but they have been on the shelf for the past one year, as none works. We need small vehicles to move around the city.”
 
 Other firefighters complained of not having the proper suit to wear during an outbreak of fire.
 
 There are only three firefighting suits and a chemical suit at the station.
 
 Some firefighters also highlighted the need for regular training to deal with any kind of situation. 
 
 “We are required to rescue people from a pool if they are drowning. All of us are required to learn swimming ourselves and after we join the firefighting unit, most of us have spent years without a dip in the pool.” said Harwinder Singh, a firefighter at Sector 29 fire station.
 
 “We are also called to catch snakes. The fire department has not trained us in dealing with snakes,” said  , the lead fireman at Udyog Vihar station. “No special training is provided to us. From April 14 to 20, fire week is celebrated every year. It is only then the department gives us some sort of training.”
 
 Firefighters also said that they are not adequately paid and don’t even get a risk allowance. “We get Rs12,000 as monthly salary,” said one, who did not wish to be named. 
 
 Sahab Singh, a firefighter at Sector 29 station, said, “When police personnel can get Rs 5,000 as risk allowance, why not us? Is our job not dangerous? We are ignored by everyone.”
 
 Senior fire service officer in Gurgaon, IS  , said, “At present, there are 164 firefighters in Gurgaon. After getting an assessment done in the coming days, we will know how many firefighters we need in the city. Also many proposals have been made to make fire services better like having motorcycle units, small vehicles and hydraulic units. Hopefully, we will have them in place by March 2018.”
 
 Anand Mohan Sharan, secretary of the urban local bodies department, said, “We have taken some officers on deputation from the Delhi Fire Service who are competent and aware of the latest machinery available. Very shortly, we are going to give orders for the latest fire equipment. We have kept a period of six months for the latest technology to be part of the fire service, but in the next three months you can see the changes.”
 
 
