An election is a process whereby citizens vote to elect officials to office. In many countries, the right to vote is a fundamental right, but, in India, it is just a legal right. Election is a time of choice. Elections have been the usual mechanism by which modern representative  . 

 In order to make a choice one should have  . Each alternative needs to be evaluated critically for successful track record, past history, references, how well the candidate was able to solved the problem of the communities and fulfil promises. When we don’t have enough choice or best choice, it is a matter of disgrace. Assembly elections are around the corner of Goa. For many it is a time of influencing voters by way of tall promises.
 
 Every year we celebrate January 25 as National Voters’ Day. It is our duty to know our contesting candidates and our fundamental rights. One should support political parties/candidates that focus on governance and on issues related to transparency, human rights, justice and peace, and the safeguarding of   of all. Vote for a party/individual that is not corrupt, criminal, communal and/or casteist. It is also a time of choosing the best candidate to send him to the legislative assembly of Goa. While the state’s blend of diverse cultures and religions, and its peace loving people attracts the world to it, the secular fabric of Goa is being systematically destroyed.
 
 Whether it is in the municipality or panchayat, issues remain untouched and, purposely, unsolved. Election time is a time for evaluation and holding accountable our political parties and elected representative, to check whether we are enjoying all our fundamental rights. 
 
 Our Constitution guarantees us and assure us our rights to profess, to preach and to practice any religion, which we feel more comfortable with. It doesn’t mean that the atheist has no right to live or that he should be excommunicated. If that was true, then our great freedom fighter, Bhagat Singh, would have been considered a human discord. In Goa, people are being deprived of the fundamental right of a dignified and decent burial or cremation on the basis of religion and caste. Let us see in brief some commonly followed burials and cremation practices in Goa.
 
 In Islam, the deceased are to be buried within 24 hours. Washing of the body is done at the centre. Then it is wrapped in a white shroud. They don't normally use caskets. 
 
 In the Catholic tradition, the deceased is buried.
 
 In the Hindu faith, the bodies are burned. 
 
 In India ceremonial customs vary depending on the region.
 
 It is sad to note that, in Goa, in spite of many burial and cremation grounds being owned, developed and funded by the state, yet people are being discriminated against on the basis of caste and religion. The Goa Human Rights Commission, the chief secretary, all the municipalities, BDOs and panchayats, the collector office, the governor’s office, all MLAs, including the urban development minister and panchayat minister of Goa, see so many complaints for burial and cremation grounds, and, yet, none of them have made any attempt to solve this basic problem of the common man. 
 
 The Goa municipality law, the Panchayati Raj Act has a provision for providing this basic facility to citizens, but our executive and legislators should have the political will to solve this problem. Election time is the best time to learn of social issues and receive tall promises of solving them. 
 
 The question arises: are we human beings and civilized? Humanity comes first, then religion and other things. In Goa, crores of rupees have been spent from the public exchequers and yet the municipalities and panchayats have surrendered such places in the hands of private religious bodies. The public is being denied these necessities. MLAs are look at people as vote banks and keep getting elected every time. People forget to remind their legislators about their promises. Now, is the time to flog them with a scourge. 
 
 The first assembly elections were held in Goa in 1963. We are talking about IT park and smart city. None of the political parties and candidates have the will to solve the issue of burial/creation grounds. Is it wrong if we interrogate once again our would be legislators and bureaucrats to resolve this issue with gusto. Why are they shying away or are not interested in solving this critical matter of contention? Is it because the dead can’t vote?
 
 (The writer is a lecturer and human rights activist)
 
