KOLKATA: The countdown has started and the excitement is quite palpable. Even though the weather is harsh, it doesn’t seem to be cutting out the festive fervour. In fact, thousands of Kolkatans are braving the heat to have their fill of shopping for the Bengal New Year that begins on Saturday. Malls and markets have been spilling over with customers as the ‘Chaitra Sale’ reaches its last, frenetic leg. Restaurants are ready to roll out their best Bengali platter to woo the   and shops are switching to new ‘haal khatas’, flagging off a fresh accounting year. A busy month is about to come to a close at Gariahat, which reflects the ‘Poila Baisakh’ spirit at its best. The already squeezed pavements, barely visible through a ceiling of plastic sheets put up by hawkers, have been teeming with shoppers. Last-minute buying has scarcely been interrupted by the sudden spurt in temperature, said Debraj Ghosh of the Gariahat Indira Hawker Committee – the apex body of street vendors in the area. But he rues that it could have been better without the recent cash crunch.

 “People have been wary of making purchases this year. Also, hawkers now have to compete with shopping malls and big outlets that offer good, competitive discounts. Online shopping, too, has eaten into our share of the business. Despite all that, sales have been fairly good,” said Ghosh. Up north, business has been brisk at Hatibagan, too. Shopping malls, too, have seen a bigger turnout this week.
 
 For Raisa Ghosh, a Dum Dum student, Naba Barsha means family time. “It’s also about wearing new clothes, looking the best that I can do and having proper Bengali food,” she said. There will be a lot on offer for foodies this weekend. Bengali cuisine restaurant 6 Ballygunge Place will, in fact, observe a   weekend from Friday-Sunday. On April 15, the restaurant will be rolling out a buffet for New Year revelers comprising five non-vegetarian dishes and four vegetarian items, including chingri bata and kumro bharta. The lunch can be rounded up with four varieties of desserts at Rs 1100 plus taxes.
 
 For those with a sweet tooth, there will be a lot to savour this festive weekend. Balaram Mullick & Radharaman Mullick, the eminent sweet-maker, is ready to roll out several new varieties of sandesh. “We will have Queso di pina – a mix of pineapple and cottage cheese, apart from Ambrosia and Elixir. That apart, we will have a whole range of ‘Nababarsha’ sandesh across a wide price range,” said Sudip Mullick, owner.
 
