LUCKNOW: UP CM   fears that any U-turn by his father “under the influence of the saboteurs” could be catastrophic for the party in the middle of an election campaign and is, hence, adamant on not giving up the post of the SP national president for   Yadav till March, sources close to the CM have told ET.
 
  “Akhilesh ko apne pita pe vishwas ho ya na ho, par   jaise saazishkartaon par aage bhi sabotage karne ka pura vishwas hai (Akhilesh may or may not trust his father, but fully believes that Amar Singh will be a saboteur in future too),” a source close to Akhilesh said.
  
  “The saboteurs have the capacity to get anything written from Mulayam once he becomes the national chief,” he said. By not giving up the post, Akhilesh wants to retain the right to allot the symbol by Form A and B to candidates. “What happens if Akhilesh agrees to Mulayam’s offer and steps down as national president and tomorrow Mulayam issues an order under the influence of the saboteurs to take away his right to decide candidates — we cannot afford that.
  
  Akhilesh is ready to give in writing that he will give up the party chief’s post after elections, the source said.
  
  Unflustered by the feud and believing his face will be bigger than any symbol in case ‘cycle’ is frozen by EC, Akhilesh is believed to be close to stitching a mega alliance with Congress, RLD, RJD and JD(U) within this week and launch his poll campaign from Monday.
  
  Playing an emotional card on Wednesday, Mulayam said he had given up everything for Akhilesh, even nominated him as the next CM.
  
  Mulayam also targeted Ram Gopal Yadav for meeting the “president (read Amit Shah) of an opposition party” thrice and pleading before that person to save his son and daughter-in-law in a CBI case. “A few people around Akhilesh have pumped him up that he can win without Netaji. Core Yadav voters revere Mulayam and may vote for Akhilesh in case of a split, bringing gains to BJP. Ram Gopal wants to split the party as he will be No. 1 in the new party. He will always be under the thumb of Netaji, if at all he is in SP,” a MLA close to Mulayam said.
  
  Expulsion of Ram Gopal is nonnegotiable for Mulayam, but Akhilesh has refused to distance himself from his uncle. As per the sources close to the CM, Akhilesh has said “Ram Gopal stood by me when I was alone.” Mulayam’s history of political U-turns — from his stand on the nuclear deal to presidential elections to the grand merger of Janata parties — has not helped the matters much. In short, trust is in short supply on both the sides. 
