BHUBANESWAR: As Crime Branch on Thursday begins the probe into WannaCry attack in data system of Berhampur hospital, the jittery Odisha Police banned the use of internet in police stations across the state. Besides, the police sought the assistance of   (NTRO), a technical intelligence agency under the National Security Advisor in the Prime Minister's Office, to get clues about the hackers. 

 “We strictly asked all police stations not to use internet in the official computers and desktops for some days. We have an intranet facility under the Crime and   and System (CCTNS) in police stations. All types of police related works can be done through the intranet service,” DGP Kunwar Brajesh Singh told TOI. “If intranet is compromised due to the use of internet, then there is a strong possibility of security breach of sensitive police data. Officers have been asked not to use dongles for internet services in official systems,” Singh informed. 
 
 The DGP said he already spoke to NTRO officials about the WannaCry threat. “Since NTRO develops technology capabilities in data gathering and processing, cyber security and cryptology systems, we hope they can help us get clues about the hackers. It is difficult to trace the hackers, who have been demanding ransom in bitcoins, which involves digital currency transactions in anonymity,” Singh said. 
 
 Crime Branch chief   said the two computers, which were attacked with   malware at Berhampur hospital on May 13, have been sent to the forensic laboratory for examination. “The two persons, who used the computers, told us that all the data was encrypted minutes after they opened two attachment files in their personal e-mails,” Sharma said. 
 
 Hospital sources said 95 percent of the blocked data were related to drug distribution and fund management system (online payment for hospital vendors and health workers) of the hospital. “We will definitely face problem in reorganising the drug distribution and fund management system. We are in touch with the NIC to reinstall the data system. The remaining five percent blocked data was not very important as those were sent to higher officials through emails. We can retrieve those data,” said a hospital staffer. 
 
 Meanwhile, Crime Branch also took up another case, involving WannaCry attack in data system of a primary health centre (PHC) at Purushottampur in Ganjam district a few days ago. Though talks were doing the rounds that a similar cyber attack occurred in a bank at Titlagarh in Balangir district, police did not confirm the development. In Berhampur, a few individuals told the media that their computers were attacked by WannaCry, though no police complaint was lodged till filing of the report.
 
