AHMEDABAD: Prime Minister  , in his speech before women sarpanches from across the country had said, “A discriminatory mindset cannot be accepted.” But local governments in his home state remain far from this vision. In Gujarat, at least in five villages, women dalit sarpanches have faced no-confidence motions, and were made to step down as they could not pass their budget proposals in face of staunch opposition. These women sarpanches have learnt the meaning of discrimination the hard way.

  In five villages Lakhwad and Chadasana in Mehsana district, Chaveli in Patan district, Salvana in Surendranagar district and Vasna Chaudhari in  , no confidence motions were brought against women sarpanches when the seats were declared reserved for women candidates from the Scheduled Caste (SC) category.
 
 Following the same pattern, in all these villages, no confidence motion was brought and passed by so called upper caste community members, but the women sarpanches overcame them by successfully approaching respective district Panchayats, says Kaushik Parmar, a dalit rights activist based in Mehsana. 
 
 When the no-confidence motions failed, the opposition grouped together to block budget proposals brought by the dalit women sarpanches. Failing to pass budget, they had to give up their posts.
 
 In Chadasna village, no-confidence motions were brought thrice but the woman sarpanch, Santokben Solanki got it rejected by approaching district panchayat. Ultimately, she was removed after seven members of the panchayat- which included four from general category and three from OBC community, did not support the budget proposal.
 
 “I was elected as sarpanch on January 23, 2012 as for the first time a reserved seat for SC category was declared in Chadasna village. But the six upper caste members were not happy with me as I am from dalit community and therefore, they moved no-confidence motion against me on August 1, 2013,” said Santokben. “Then on November 12, 2013 we approached Mehsana district panchayat challenging the no-confidence motion and we succeeded,” she added.
 
 “But they could not see our victory and thrashed me. I had to be hospitalized for eight days in Mehsana civil hospital,” Santokben said.
 
 On October 3, 2014, a budget proposal moved by the sarpanch was rejected by the members of the panchayat due to which Santokben had to leave the post of village sarpanch.
 
 Similarly, the four other women sarpanches could not complete their terms as they were removed through no confidence motions or by not being able to have budget proposals passed. 
 
 Former sarpanch of Chaveli village of Patan, Raiben Solanki, who was elected as sarpanch in January 2012 had to face four no-confidence motions. “I had faced torture for two years by upper caste community members and they succeeded in removing me by rejecting the panchayat budget. I have decided not to contest sarpanch elections any more,” said Raiben, who takes care of her 35-year-old physically disabled son.
 
 Ramuben Chhajiya, who was elected as sarpanch in Salvana village in Surendranagr district in January 2012, also faced a no-confidence motion brought by panchayat members. She said, “The no-confidence motion was moved six months later, but as I moved to district panchayat, it was declared null and void. Later on, the members did not accept the budget proposal due to which I had to quit the sarpanch post.” 
 
 Sarpanch of Lakhvad village in Mehsana, Kamla   said that no-confidence motion was brought in her village for the first time post-independence when she was elected. “I was elected in January 2012 but I was not allowed to take charge before September due to pressure from upper caste community members. Nine out of ten members of the panchayat belonged to Patidar community and they removed me after two years from the sarpanch post,” Makwana said. 
 
 Leelaben Parmar of Vasna Chaudhari village in Dehgam taluka of Gandhinagar, too, met with the same fate and was removed from her post after two years as her budget proposal was not accepted by upper caste community members in the panchayat, she says.
 
 
