The 21st Century has brought along a great thing called technology. But, unfortunately, that has also led to the near-death of certain habits, especially reading. Reading maketh a man, so here are a few simple tips to stay hooked onto reading...

  
 
 
  Students often encounter the problem of what to read. Choosing a reading material depends on your interests. Starting with something basic and simple, and moving onto other options is the key. The problem with starting something advanced right away results in incomplete reading and also wasting the money you spent on buying the material. One day at a time is the formula.
 
  
 
 
  The use of   or sticky posts help you flag a page and a paragraph, whereas a pencil will help you remember a quote or a definition. This makes reading interesting and time worthy.
 
  
 
 
  This term is widely used in literary studies. Using the end of a pencil or your finger along the lines of a text helps you read with attention by noticing the details even better. It helps one to analyze the text and makes us pause and think for a few moments.
 
  
 
 
  An hour of reading in a day helps a lot. Getting up early in the morning and reading for some time helps us think and remember, as the brain appears to function faster when it’s fresh. Reading in short sequences also helps in processing information easily.
 
  
 
 
  Connecting what you read to a background story, information or even to your life, not only makes us interested but also helps in greater retention of the information. We all love examples, don’t we?
 
  
 
 
  Reading groups in libraries help us access data for further reading, and thus enrich our reading experience. Group discussions help us understand as well as aid in socializing.
 
  
 
 
  Making constant visits to   help us to stay updated with the new releases. Skim through bookshelves to find something better and challenge yourself to read by shifting genres. Never go by a book’s cover, read a few pages of the book before buying it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
