Mumbai: The SBI’s   of associate banks with itself will be the largest consolidation exercise in the country adding 6,200 branches to SBI’s network of 17,000. Despite the scale,   says it will be one of the fastest transitions, and expect full data integration within six weeks.

 “As far as customers of associate banks are concerned they will get the full SBI experience from April 1. It is only for availing non-home branch services like accessing their account from other SBI branches they will have to wait for six weeks,” said  , deputy MD, SBI.
 
 SBI has made investments in IT hardware to take over database of new customers. “Our customer accounts will rise from 55 crore to around 75 crore. Although our systems were capable of handling 100 crore accounts, we found optimal performance was when capacity utilisation was around 60-70%. We, therefore, doubled the capacity of the database to handle 200 crore accounts,” said Mahapatra.
 
 While this merger will catapult SBI into the world’s top 50 banks, the PSU major with around $450 billion in assets would still be fourth after   ($2,022bn) — the smallest of top 10 banks globally. But the scale of the merger is in the number of branches, where SBI ranks number two globally. “China’s   has the largest number of branches. With this merger SBI should be at least a close second,” said Mahapatra.
 
 According to Mahapatra, although system integration would take place immediately the bank would be restoring historical data of customer transactions on its own servers and the whole process would be completed in six weeks. “Besides the challenge of data archival and moving such a large database, we have also had to make changes in the system so that some unique schemes run by some of the associate banks could continue to run,” said Mahapatra. A few associate bank customers, whose account numbers match the numbers in SBI, would also see their account details change. 
 
 Preparations for SBI merger have been in the works for several years, included having common networks for   and common IT providers. Compared with this, complete consolidation of systems of   with   took over a year.
 
 
