GURUGRAM: Golf Course Road’s impressive new avatar of a signal-free expressway has come as a huge relief for residents of housing societies and   sectors in its vicinity. But it has also brought with it questions about the amenities that are being built on the road and whether the convenience of cyclists and pedestrians has been factored in. 

 The road transformed over the month of April with the opening of six of the seven underpasses between Sector 56 and Shankar Chowk. But it also led to new diversions and traffic routes kicking in. Not everyone’s happy with the result. 
 
 “This highway has multiple issues. Residents of   Phase 1, for instance, have to now drive on the wrong side to get to the highway. Consequently, people are jumping dividers and driving on footpaths in some cases,” said RS Rathee, who heads the Qutub Enclave RWA. 
 
 Rathee and his association members are planning to approach the administration DLF, which has built the expressway, which is likely to be formally inaugurated by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar next Tuesday. He also pointed out that the confluence of the Sikanderpur underpass was accident-prone and needed a fix. Others said the road needed   and pavements consistently along its length. 
 
 A DLF spokesperson said all additional amenities like pedestrian crossings and   were under process. “All the services are planned and will be developed gradually. We cannot divulge any further details on the matter as yet,” he said.
 
 A group of five residents from Gurgaon — among them Prabhat Agarwal, Nisha Singh, Latika Thukral, and Sarika Panda — had earlier filed a PIL in the high court, raising concern about pedestrians and cyclists who use the highway. “If one wants to walk down to the metro stations, how do they do that without being scared of being run over by a car? The state government on one hand is talking of making cities cyclist-friendly and there is no sign of cycle tracks,” said Thukral. Some of the petitioners met Khattar, who was in Gurgaon on Tuesday. “The CM assured these things will be take care of,” Thukral added. 
 
 
