PATNA: With the Mother’s Day only a couple of days away, children in the city are utilising their little savings and talent to make their mom feel special on May 14.

 Gift shops and galleries are witnessing brisk sale of items like photo frames, personalised photo mugs and greeting cards. “These gift items at my shop are priced between Rs 150 and Rs 1,200 while greeting cards come for Rs 80 to Rs 500 each,” said Guddu Singh, who runs a a gift shop on Ashok Rajpath.
 
 According to Singh, most children are buying cards, photo frames, mugs, perfumes, watches or flower vas. Musical cards and wind chimes with pictures are also in demand.
 
 “Choosing a gift is a difficult task... I was looking for the kind of gift my mom will always remember. I somehow accessed all her childhood pictures, stuck them in a scrapbook with captions and decorated the album with glitters. I am sure my mother will love it,” said Ankit Arman, a Class V student of Loyola High School.
 
 Like Arman, Shreya Shree will also use her creativity to make her mother feel special on the day. The Class IX student of St Dominic Savio’s High School is writing a poem on her mother.
 
  “I have also selected certain pictures and put them in milk bottles which I have decorated with sparkles and rice lights,” Shreya said and added she would also buy a cake for her mother to cut on the day.
 
 Some pre-schools will organise culinary and beauty competitions on the eve of Mother’s Day.   director Suraj Sinha said, “We want our students’ mothers to be involved in the school’s activities. It helps not only their children but also them,” he said and added mothers would get an opportunity to show their culinary skills in this contest while children would express their love for mother in another event.
 
 TEFL Play School will organise a beauty contest on the occasion. School principal Hema said children would make cards and sing songs to express their love for mother at an event organised in the school on the day. A ramp walk for mothers will also be organised, she said.
 
