Vadodara: With no takers for the bicycle sharing project of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC), the civic body has been forced to invite bids for the third time. The project was included in the list of Smart City projects by the civic body.

 The cycle sharing project was first proposed by the civic body in 2016 and budgetary allocations for it were made in the 2016-17 budget. The project was included as an area-based development (ADB) project in the Smart City proposal of the civic body.
 
 Since then, the civic body has made two attempts to invite tenders for the project. In the first attempt, a lot of enthusiasm was seen for the project and a leading bicycle manufacturer was also eyeing the project. 
 
 After the technical bids were opened, seven vendors including the bicycle manufacturer made presentations to the civic body.
 
 However, the enthusiasm did not translate into financial bids by the vendors. Nobody came up to make financial bids even on a second attempt that was made by the civic body.
 
 The third attempt for identifying the bidders has now been made by the civic body. The tender was advertised again on Wednesday and the civic body expects to get some response this time around.Bicycle sharing or renting projects have been launched earlier in bigger cities like Delhi and Ahmedabad. 
 
 But these are essentially to cater to those travelling by public transportation facilities like the metro in Delhi or BRTS in Ahmedabad. The facility in Vadodara will, however, be different as the city has no such mass transit systems as yet.
 
 VMC officials said that the M S University campus and the area around it will be selected for the project initially. This includes areas like Fatehgunj, Sayajigunj, Kamatibaug Road and Pratapgunj. 
 
 The area will have spots from where people can pick and leave a bicycle. The civic body has earmarked Rs 6crore for the project in the budget. 
 
 The bicycles will be GPS enabled to ensure that they are not taken away by the users.
 
 
