PATNA: The special investigation team (SIT) probing the question paper leak in Bihar Staff Selection Commission (BSSC) examination for Intermediate level clerk grade recruitments, will quiz its chairman  , said Patna SSP   on Friday.   secretary Parmeshwar Ram and data operator Avinash Kumar have already been arrested in this connection.

 Kumar, a senior IAS officer of 1987 batch, would be interrogated about the process for setting and printing question papers for the competitive examination conducted by the commission.
 
 The SSP, who is also heading the SIT, said a questionnaire was being prepared for Kumar and other BSSC staff. He also confirmed that details of several candidates for auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) posts were also found in the cellphone of Ram, who has been suspended. The interview for selection of ANMs is going on at the commission’s office and it would continue till February 16.
 
 Kumar admitted to the TOI that he used to receive requests (pairvi) from several politicians and bureaucrats seeking favour for their candidates. He, however, did not reveal anyone’s name. Regarding Ram, he said, “The BSSC secretary was a weak person and I had scolded him last year for entertaining MLAs in his office,” he said. Kumar blamed the DMs and SPs of the districts concerned for paper leak. 
 
 Moreover, the Economic Offences Unit (EOU) sleuths, who are also investigating the case, reached BSSC office on Friday and collected details of observers and other officials deployed in the 11 districts for conducting the four-phase examination. The EOU officials have urged the commission to provide details about the other districts as well.
 
 EOU IG   Gangwar said all the arrested persons are just a part of the scam and availability of answer keys of February 5 examination in the market on January 29, makes it clear that AVN School was one of the prime centres to leak the questions. “EOU, which is searching the money trail, is also gathering evidences to find out where from the questions might have been leaked before reaching the strongroom of every district,” he added.
 
 The SIT on Thursday arrested AVN School’s director Ramashish Singh, along with five others, in the case. Ramashish was also one of the bailors of RJD chief Lalu Prasad in the fodder scam.
 
 The EOU, searching documents related to payments made to the printing presses for publishing question papers, failed to find them till Friday. “Payment and location of printing press concerned is known to the commission’s chairman only,” said a source, adding that several MLAs used to visit commission’s office to meet the secretary. 
 
 
