CHANDIGARH: The Motor Accident Claims   has dismissed a petition filed by two   residents who had sought Rs 75 lakh as   from their two sisters for the death of their 55-year-old mother last year.

 Devinder Singh and Surinder Singh, sons of deceased Karamjit Kaur (55), had demanded Rs 75 lakh from their sisters Jaswinder Kaur and Jaspreet Kaur. They had claimed that their mother had died in an accident that happened while she was riding pilion on a scooter driven by Jaswinder. However, the tribunal said the petition was filed just for compensation and there was no proof to show that an accident took place. 
 
 The brothers stated in the petition that on September 19, 2016, around 6.50pm, Karamjit and   were going from Mohali to Chhat village when the Honda Activa they were riding slipped near the village, because of Jaswinder’s reckless driving.
 
 They said their mother was injured and one Harbhajan Singh of Chhat village, who was nearby, helped Jaswinder along with police to shift Karamjit to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. Karamjit died at the hospital. A notice was send to Jaswinder and the two-wheeler’s owner, Jaspreet. However, they did not appear in court.The insurance firm, which was a respondent, told the tribunal that the insured had violated terms of the insurance policy. They saod the driver did not have a valid driving licence. It was pleaded that no information regarding the accident was mentioned and that the claimant had filed a false claim petition. It appealed to the tribunal to dismiss the plea.
 
 The witness, Harbhajan Singh, also said he had not seen the vehicle falling.
 
 After arguments, the tribunal held that petitioners did not give enough evidence and the circumstances of the case were "highly suspicious". It said the petition could not be allowed in the absence of negligence. It said the vehicle in question seemed to have been planted and there was nothing on record to show that the claimants ever intended to take any criminal action against Jaswinder. 
 
 The tribunal said there was nothing on record to show any damage to the vehicle in question, and the possibility of misusing police machinery could not be ruled out. The tribunal’s order read: "This court is of the opinion that the possibility of plantation of the vehicle cannot be ruled out. The claimants are seemingly in connivance with Jaswinder Kaur, who is their sister. They are in hand-in-glove with each other. Their only aim is to get compensation, which is not justified. Hence, the claim petition stands dismissed."
 
