 by   and Ruchi Tripathi will present their inspiring collection themed ‘Modest Luxury’ at the Lakmé Fashion Week Summer / Resort 2017. The collection will be unveiled on Thursday, February 2, on the Sustainable Fashion and Indian Textiles Day. 

 The collection is inspired by the Japanese Boro textiles. Boro is a term that describes patched and mended fabrics, an ideology of ‘no wastage’ and that the utility of a piece of garment is more important than it being just a thing of luxury and style.
 
  Modest Luxury uses different combinations of khadi (silk and cotton) and linen fabrics; textured, natural dyed and hand printed, which have been combined together in patches and panels, embellished with re-purposed fabric cut-outs, re-enforced with dense hand stitches to create surface textures. The patch, panels, buttons and trims have been created from leftover fabric cuttings to help minimise wastage and reflects a conscious effort towards sustainable design practices.
 
 Eventually no two pieces in this collection will be identical and each will be unique in its own way. Indigene by Jaya and Ruchi is a conscious clothing label from Delhi. They started with a passion for all things handmade. Lending a fresh perspective to “made by hand” and turning it into a larger, yet deeply personal, statement.
 
 Indigene speaks of and for artisans across geographies, of consumers who know how it feels to pay it forward. Lending it form, shape and accent are its designers, Ruchi Tripathi and Jaya Bhatt, textile design graduates from Delhi’s National Institute of Fashion Technology. Indigene follows the “wear it anywhere” philosophy — classic silhouettes and hand crafted textile that one would love to live in, reminding the wearer of the artisan who created it, the journey of the garment and the earthy comfort that the natural fabrics bring.
 
 The designers say, “We are extremely happy to showcase our collection for the second time at LFW, especially because the show has been chosen to be scheduled on the Sustainable Fashion and Indian Textile Day. The silhouettes are simple yet stylish with fine detailing, keeping the essence of handcraft, appealing to anyone who is experimental and creative. The collection is an effort towards conscious and meaningful fashion.”
  
 
 
