Navi Mumbai: There are strong undercurrents of a legal tussle brewing between Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) and the Thane Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (TSPCA) over the issue of picking up two   dogs from a Koparkhairane housing society.

 TSPCA, along with several other animal activists had recently met civic officials urging them not to relocate the two stray dogs which are being taken care of by a local resident Naseem Bano, as the animals have been residing there since 2007. 
 
 On the other hand, the civic veterinary officer Vaibhav Zunzare has stated that they have received complaints from other local residents who want the strays to be picked up as they are “aggressive” and a “nuisance”.
 
 Shakuntala Majumdar of TSPCA said, “We had a meeting with Zunzare on Wednesday this week. We told him that TSPCA will only pick up the two dogs for medical check-ups and treatment of a skin infection, and later release them back in their original territory. It is wrong to permanently relocate the strays as they are healthy and have not bitten anyone in the locality. However, NMMC is not agreeing.” 
 
 Majumdar added that TSPCA was ready to send their ambulance to Koparkhairane to pick up the dogs on Sunday (February 11) for medical aid. But Zunzare reportedly called her on Saturday and stated that the dogs must be picked up now. 
 
 “Other legal experts and I have told NMMC that it will be an unlawful act to pick up the two dogs and not bring them back to their original place,” she said.
 
  Zunzare, however, clarified that all the other society residents have complained to NMMC. “The two dogs sit on the stairs and corridor, and aggressively bark at anyone climbing up or down the stairs. The residents are fed up of the dog nuisance and therefore want them out of there.''
 
 However, city animal activists said that NMMC must hear to all sides of this issue, and not act merely on the insistence of those who do not want the stray dogs. Two years back, the society had also filed a legal proceeding against Bano in the local court on this issue, and the case is pending.
 
 “A member of Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) had also written to the Thane district collectorate about this animal rights issue, and urged the authorities to intervene if NMMC indulged in any illegal relocation of the dogs,'' said an activist.
 
 In this regard, the union minister and head of People for Animals (PFA), Maneka Gandhi, has also been contacted by the activists.
 
 ``Earlier, the Supreme Court had also given clear directions that stray dogs also have the right to live and therefore humans must co-exist with animals. Even the animal birth control (ABC) rules state that once a dogs has been picked up for sterilization, it must be dropped back at the same place after the surgery,'' said an activist.
 
 
