THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Should there be a quality check on the students who are completing MBBS in India if they want to register as a medical practitioner? Medicos and senior doctors are opposing the Centre's proposal to have a   (NEXT) for all medical institutions at the undergraduate level.

 Medicos see it as an attempt to impose a three-year   (CRS) rather than a quality check on those who pass the MBBS course. “If the Centre is truly concerned about the quality of medical education, then it would not have proposed short-term courses like Bachelor of Rural Health (BRHS) Service which will produce half-baked doctors and the proposal to allow AYUSH doctors to prescribe drugs used in modern medicine,“ said president of Kerala Medical Post Graduates Association Dr P Jathin.
 
 “We have strong objections against the amendments being made in the   for this purpose. Once we successfully complete MBBS course, the government is now saying that we have to undergo one more test to practice, which is not justified,“ he said.
 
 Medical Council of India (MCI) state representative Dr K Mohanan said that the association had opposed the proposal put forward by the Union government. “ At the last council meeting, there was stiff opposition to the proposal. It is an absurd decision since this was proposed at a time when the eligibility test for those who are completing MBBS outside the country was scrapped, he said.
 
 Having a compulsory rural service and NEXT ­ if it is considered as the entrance for the postgraduate courses is wel come. But, a quality check on those who pass different layers of exam is not justified, said Dr Mohanan.
 
 State secretary elect of IMA Dr N Sulphi termed exit exam as a stupid move. “Students are screened at various levels ­ preclinical and clinical ­ through qualifying exams and final MBBS exam and rigorous oneyear internship. Why did the Centre think that they don't have standards after these exams? If at all the standards have fallen, the government and MCI are responsible as they allowed the mushrooming of medical colleges without minimum standards,“ he said The solution is to implement a uniform standard by going for a common examination for government and private medical colleges. If it is to maintain standards then why can't they b ring unifor m standard for all medical colleges, he asked.
 
 Medicos are also opposing the amendment that al lows 50% quota for doctors working in the health service for postgraduate courses. In Kerala, the public service exams conducted for posts in directorate of health service and directorate of medical education happen once in a while.Thousands of MBBS doctors ­ who are willing to join the government sector ­ are unable to do so because of the inefficient PSC recruitment system.A major portion of PG seats available will now be taken away from these MBBS doctors, said Dr Jathin.
 
 In Kerala, where 2,850 students complete MBBS course each year, there are 87 primary health centres identified in rural areas. It will be a difficult task to depute these doctors for compulsory rural service, said Dr Jinesh PS, a health activist.
 
