BENGALURU: Already at   over sharing of  ,   seem to heading for another major showdown with the   planning to evict  ,   mostly belonging to Karnataka, from its beaches.

 Goa tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar recently said lambanis or lamanis should be removed from the beaches if they try to harass foreign and domestic tourists. The statement hasn't gone well with his Karnataka counterpart.
 
 “Why single out lambanis, why not Russians?
 Crime is not limited to one community or country . It's unfortunate that a minister has issued an irresponsible statement targeting one particular community . It's strange that the BJP is happy with foreigners but doesn't want Indians,'' said Karnataka tourism minister Priyank M Kharge.
 
 Terming it unconstitutional, textile and endowment (Muzrai) minister Rudrappa Lamani, who represents the community in the Karnataka government, ex pressed dismay and shock.“How can anyone target a single community for social ills? The statement was uncalled for,'' he said.
 
 The minister said he has already spoken to former BJP minister, Revu Naik Belamagi, who also belongs to same community , and the latter has promised him to take up the issue with Goa through BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa soon after the bypolls to Nanjangud and Gundlupet.
 
 Kharge said he would write to Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar, condemning Ajgaonkar's statement and seeking clarity on the stand taken by the Goa tourism minister. He would also discuss the issue with chief minister Siddaramaiah immediately after the byelections and ask him to write to Prime Minister Na rendra Modi because he fears such occurrences could threaten national unity .
 
 He said Karnataka had recently passed a landmark bill (Karnataka land reforms Act, 2017) to legalize various hamlets, including 2,000 lambani tandas, by rechristening them as revenue villages to enable the ostracized community to get more benefits and bring them into the mainstream.
 
 
 
 
 Nearly a decade ago, several Kannadiga families were evicted from Baina beach, prompting the Karnataka government to intervene.The Goa administration had taken up a drive to clear the shanty town, alleging families staying in Baina beach were indulging in prostitution and disturbing the local social fabric. Despite Karnataka's resistance, the Goa government removed thousands of shanties, saying the houses have been built on government land and are prone to natural disasters.
 
 
 
 
 At 40 lakh, Karnataka has the second highest population of Lambanis, called Banjaras in other parts of the country.They are classified as Scheduled Castes (SC), while in many other states they come under Scheduled Tribes (ST). Research scholars of the tribe who have conducted studies compare them to their ancestors -the Romas or Gypsies of Europe. Lambanis have one of the richest and most vibrant cultures as they are skilled artisans. They frequent Goa to sell trinkets and handmade clothes to tourists. They are also known for their colourful costumes and are involved in the seasonal tourism trade.Shunned and ostracized, many still live in hamlets called Lambani tandas.
 
