LUCKNOW: Sunday will provide an opportunity to over 34.5 lakh electorate in the nine constituency of the state capital to lock their choices in the electronic voting machines as to who will represent them in the state assembly for the next five years. 

 A big challenge for the people would be to improve turnout as witnessed in other constituencies of the state in the first two phases of the   so far. Nearly 55%   in Lucknow are below 40 years of age, which many hope will come out to break past polling records. 
 
 In 2012, Lucknow West saw 49.08% turnout, Lucknow North 50.25%, Lucknow East 53.11%, Lucknow Central 50.91%, Lucknow Cantonment 50.47, Bakshi Ka Talab 67.09% Malihabad 65.35%, Mohanlalganj 64.72% and Sarojininagar 59.17%. Average polling was 56.68%.
 
 The choices before the voters this time are many but going by the popular mood the battle of ballots in triangular in most seats. In 2012, SP won seven out of nine seats, ending BJP monopoly since 1991 following Ram Temple movement. Besides anti-incumbency against the then BJP MLAs, impressive turnout was said to be major reasons for it. 
 
 However, this time, the battle is evenly poised. At stake is the prestige of Samajwadi Pariwar and Sangh Pariwar. Samajwadi Pary has fielded two members of Yadav family from different seats - Aparna Yadav from Lucknow Cantonment and Anurag Yadav from Saojininagar. Besides, two SP ministers - Ravidas Mehrotra from Lucknow Central and Abhishek Mishra from Lucknow North are in the fray. Though party has alliance with Congress, rebel candidates of both parties have made ride tough. 
 
 On the other hand, BJP and its affiliate are on overdrive to win back its bastion with the help of Brand Modi. However, party is depending on turncoats in three major seats - Rita Bahugana Joshi from Lucknow Cantonment, Brijesh Pathak from Lucknow Central and Neeraj Bora from Lucknow North. 
 
 BSP's Nakul Dubey, who was a minister in Mayawati government and close aide of party's Brahmin face SC Mishra, is contesting from BKT. Shiv Shankar Singh, 2012 runner-up, is a strong contender in Sarojininagar. 
 
 
