MUMBAI: Ever since all-rounder   arrived on the scene for   from third season of the VIVO  , the fortunes of the team have witnessed a sea change.

 From finishing at the bottom of the eight-team league in the first two seasons, Paltan have finished third in seasons 4. Hooda is one of the best all-rounders in the PKL so far with 391 total points collectively in all 4 seasons. His 342 raid points in the PKL are the fourth-most. His retention above Manjeet Chhillar or  , illustrates his value to the franchise. Now set to lead Pune in the fifth season, Hooda told 
 in an interview that his team will be a force to reckon with this season. 
 
 
 
 
 
 The preparations are going really well. We are adopting a holistic approach for training. Our coach, BC Ramesh, is ensuring that the players are well prepared for the season and fitness trainers are ensuring that they are fully healthy and fit for the long season. Our training camp was held at Symbiosis International University, Lavale, and now we have shifted to our home ground, Balewadi Stadium. Players generally do fitness sessions in the morning and do mat practice in the evening.
 
 
 
 We have a well-balanced side. We have a perfect mix of experience and youth. Our raiding as well as defence is strong. We have the likes of Rajesh Mondal, Akshay Jadhav in raiding and we have entrusted our defence in the able hands of  ,  ,   etc. As a skipper, I will have to do most of the job. Cherlathan, Mondal and Sandeep have huge experience and certainly they will be the key players.
 
 
 
 We have 18 players in our team. Managing a squad of 18 is a tough job, however, all the players are understanding and supportive and likewise our management is also very supportive.
 
 
 
 Yes, there are numerous youngsters in all the teams but they bring in a wave of energy and enthusiasm and some different skills. The youngsters in our team are really good and are capable of playing in the first seven.
 
 The experienced ones in the team advise them to stay calm and focused on the mat under all the pressure that will be there once the league starts. They will be able to handle a long sea son with the support of our support staff and management.
 
 
 
 All teams look strong and one cannot differentiate between them until they play on the mat and competitors understand their strategy and style of play. Having said that, I believe our team is strong and well-balanced and is considered a force to reckon with this season.
 
 In the 13-week long season, how will you be able to maintain the intensity level of competition among players? Our players mean business on both on and off the mat. They train very hard; take care of their health and fitness so that there is no loss to the team because of them being injured not being able to play.
 
 
 
 Our physiotherapist and fitness trainers are doing a wonderful job in keeping the players fit. Players themselves also understand the importance of fitness and are taking good care of their diet on their own. Maintaining fitness over long season is going to be a challenge but players are under the able guidance of physiotherapist and fitness trainers.
 
 
 
 
 Injury is a part and parcel of any game. Our support staff works very hard in terms of taking good care of our fitness and advises us well on what to do and what not to. 
 
