Trichy: Frustrated over the repeated efforts to shut down a   shop functioning out of a house in Pambattipatti in Manapparai, women took protested at the district collectorate by bringing  , turmeric and kumkum (vermillion). They urged the district collector to help them save the men in their life from getting drunk and close the wine shop in their area on Monday. The women submitted the petition to district collector K S Palanisamy.

 Residents of Adhavathur also sought the intervention of the collector to stop plans of Tasmac to open a wine shop in their area. 
 
 Since Tasmac shops located on the national highways, closed, the government has been in the search for alternative locations for the last two months, at the same time facing lot of protests from people against opening them in their area. 
 
 Monday’s novel protest added an emotional touch as the women appealed to the district administration to protect the lives of the men in their families. They lined up in front of the district collector’s office with their mangalsutra in a plate along with turmeric and kumkum.
 
 The residents of Pambattipatti resorted to this step after their demand to close the wine shop was turned down by Tasmac officials for nearly a month. The shop was shifted to the house after the shop on the Vaiyampatti to Karur road was removed as per the court order. 
 
 “Our continuous protest against the wine shop in the house in Pambattipatti failed to yield any result. Rather, police arrested the protesters and forced them to give in writing that they will not protest henceforth. We strongly condemn the act of the police and our people appeal the collector to remove the shop from the area,” said P Ganesan, CPI rural district secretary. 
 
 In another incident, the residents of Raj Nagar, Adhavathur east, Allithurai and Srirangam submitted a petition to the collector that Tasmac should abandon its efforts to set up a wine shop in the area which is close to residential areas and worship places.
 
 
