NAGPUR: This year,  , considered to be a festival for several Nagpurians, is all set to achieve new heights with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Deekshabhoomi at noon. His visit on the occasion will be closely observed throughout the country, putting Nagpur on India’s watch list. He will be paying tributes to leaders and is also said to release a postal stamp of Deekshabhoomi.

 Over 25,000 people gather every year at midnight to celebrate jayanti with cake cutting and bursting of crackers at Samvidhan Chowk. Apart from that, events are held individually by all the Buddha Vihars in the city; one of the most prominent one being at Indora, helmed by Japanese priest Bhante Arya Nagarjun Surai Sasai, who will be addressing the devotees like every year at 9am at Deekshabhoomi. From around 5am, devotees will start pouring in at the sacred place. Dressed mostly in white clothes they will continue their visit throughout the day as the celebrations gather pace. Buddha Vihar in Indora will have lighting in most homes, bringing in an air of festivity. Also exhibitions and rallies will be taken out from many parts of the city.
 
 Speaking about the preparations at Deekshabhoomi, trustee Vijay Gajghate said, “The South Gate will be open to devotees, and the front gate (east) will be opened only after the PM leaves the premises. The PM is slated to reach at 11.45am and leave by 12.05pm.”
 
 “Ambedkar Bahujan Samarak Samiti usually holds speeches at Deekshabhoomi on this day but owing to the PM’s visit, nothing has been planned this year,” said Vijay Chikate, member of the samiti. For last two years, Dr Ambedkar Vichar Mahotsav Samiti has been organizing programmes at Kasturchand Park on the occasion, and this year the event is organized on April 15 at 6pm, where MP Sharad Yadav is expected to be the chief guest and address Nagpurians. It will be followed by a musical programme based on songs dedicated to Gautam Buddha.
 
 Maharashtra Gandhi Smarak Nidhi, Bajaj Nagar, will be celebrating on April 13 with a speech on Dr Ambedkar and Mahatma Gandhi understanding and misunderstanding, delivered by Dr Suresh Khairnar, national president, Rashtra Seva Dal, at Kasturba Bhavan, Bajaj Nagar. India peace Centre, Civil Lines had organized a public meeting on the occasion and invited posters and paintings on ‘BR Ambedkar: The social reformer’.
 
