Chennai: India’s largest private life insurer ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Co Ltd’s listing saw a good response with active participation from foreign investors. Its executive director Sandeep   tells TOI why ‘value of new business (VNB)’ figures matters more for a young life insurer than profit after tax ( ). Excerpts:

 ICICI Prudential Life’s profit for FY16 has grown YoY at just about 1% to Rs 1,650 crore from Rs 1,634 crore — would this be a point of concern for shareholders?
 
 I think there needs to be more awareness among our shareholders and we are spreading the message about how VNB figures, matter a lot more than PAT. For the first few years, it is bound to happen that the insurance company will have losses. This is because it is on an acquisition spree for new business and as a result would have to spend to get that new business, even as it continues to shell out for claims and other operating expenses. Looking at an insurer’s profits cannot be the sole way of understanding how our business model works. We are not a manufacturing or automobile company that higher revenues (premium income) will necessarily result in higher profits.
 
 Can you further explain your rationale that VNB is a more critical number to operations that PAT?
 
 Value of new business -- which measures our profit over the tenure of the insurance contracts
 - is more important and relevant to a young company like ICICI Prudential; unlike a decades-old giant like LIC, where profits might give a fairer understanding of the company. Our value of new business has increased to Rs 4.21 in year-to-date 2017 from Rs 4.12 in FY16 and 2.7 in FY15. The value of new business represents the present value of profits expected over the life time of the new business written in a period. We are a relatively new insurance player and the most accurate way to judge our performance would be based on VNB, our claims payout ratio and solvency.
 
 When it comes to claim payouts some private life insurers have a ratio as low as between 50-60%. It almost feels like they toss a coin before deciding whether to pay a claim. How does the industry combat unhealthy trends like that?
 
 The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has a very hands on approach. When it came to the figures, it was much worse a few years ago, till the IRDAI made it mandatory to publish these figures. Once they started publishing these figures, the public clearly knew which companies were more reliable; which companies were more likely to settle their claims. If you see insurers are more conscious about rejecting claims. And then of course both the IRDAI and the Insurance Ombudsman regularly pull up and impose fines on insurers for failing to stand by their customers.
 
 Today you don’t see the traditional insurance agent, who only sold policies - how are Life insurance companies battling the slow depreciation of their base? 
 
 Business models have changed a lot from earlier. We used to earlier have one insurance agent our whole lives. Today we have a plethora of choices. People can choose to buy online or visit their bank branch. Because of our parent company ICICI Bank’s large customer base, about 50% of our business we are getting from our bancassurance channel. The rest is from our individual and corporate agents. With increased digitisation, the role of our agents has been redefined.
 
 Apart from ICICI Bank, do you plan to expand other bancassurance channels?
 
 We have Standard Chartered as our bancassurance partner. But apart from that we have not really made much progress in signing up with new banks. See there are more than 50 insurance companies today in India and each of them have one-three banks as their parents companies. So its only natural that they will first look to beefing up their own networks.
 
 With turmoil in the equity markets and a general market slowdown since the financial crisis, how are you placed with regard to ULIPs?
 
 ULIPs are still our best products, from nearly 68% it has gone up to more than 80%. About 92% of our funds have beaten their respective benchmarks since inception. We have also consistently been increasing our market share. From 12.1% last year, our market share is about 13% now. 
 
 
