CHANDIGARH: In first such order apparently, aimed at ensuring that Sirsa-based Dera   head Gurmeet   Singh’s trial in a rape case does not prolong any further, the Punjab and Haryana high court has ruled that fresh revision petition filed before it by the sect head will not hinder the trial court proceedings.

 “Proxy counsel seeks adjournment, submitting that arguing counsel for the petitioner is not available today. However, pendency of this revision petition will not come in the way of proceedings before the trial Court. Copy of this order be conveyed to the trial court,” Justice Surinder Gupta observed in his orders passed on Friday.
 
 The development is significant as the order on the revision petition would now not come in the way of trial, which is pending for the last around nine years. The prosecution evidence in the case was concluded on 2013, and the trial is at the final stage now.
 
 After HC’s clear instruction to the lower court, the dera head would also not be able to seek any adjournment before the CBI trial court on the grounds that his revision petition on the issue was pending before the high court.
 
 The order came almost a week after the HC had dismissed Ram Rahim’s similar revision petition observing that he was trying to prolong the trial in the case. In its July 5 orders, HC had also directed the Panchkula-based special CBI court “to complete the trial at the earliest”.
 
 Dera head has been filing petitions before the higher courts in relation to the trial of the case, which has caused huge delay in the conclusion of the trial.
 
 Justice Gupta of the HC passed these orders while hearing a fresh revision petition filed by the controversial dera chief on Friday seeking documents pertaining to the statement of one of the witness in rape case against him.
 
 In its fresh revision petition, he had challenged the May 10 order of the special CBI judge, Panchkula, in which the trial court had dismissed his application for directing the central probe agency to provide him copy of statement of one of the rape victims recorded by the investigating officer (IO)  , then an officer of the rank of DSP with CBI.
 
 Gurmeet wanted the copy of the statement again claiming that in her statement, recorded by the IO under section 161 of CrPc, the woman had nowhere stated that she was ever raped or sexually exploited by the dera head.
 
