GURUGRAM: The deputy commissioner,  , on Sunday denied issuing any order directing   Palam Vihar to re-open after it shut down on Thursday on the pretext that government recognition was not coming through. The refusal comes amid statements made by parents that the   has directed the school to re-open. 

 “I have not issued any such statement. My jurisdiction concerns law and order. This issue is being looked after by divisional commissioner D Suresh,” Singh said. 
 
 On May 11, the school had raised allegations of vandalism against protesting parents. The same day, the school announced it was shutting down. A day later, beleaguered parents met Suresh, who directed district education officer (DEO)   to visit the school. 
 
 “We received text messages from the school that it will re-open on Monday,” said Sandeep Dagar, a parent. “This happened right after the meeting of the DEO with school authorities.”
 
 Meanwhile, the vice-chairman of  , Anshul  , dismissed the news as a rumour. “The school will not re-open unless recognition comes through. It is they (government) who allowed all this hue and cry to be raised against us,” Anshul said. “We had sent our papers in August 2016. Ideally, they should have issued the recognition within a month or two. We could then furnish our Form VI in December and hike the fee legally. They are responsible for the mess we are currently in.”
 
 When pointed out that over 3,000 students’ futures are at stake, Pathak said, “The DEO did visit us on Friday, but she did not ask us to re-open the school. If the government writes to us, we might reconsider.”
 
 However, divisional magistrate D Suresh told TOI, “The school has not made a formal announcement on its closure. Parents are receiving messages on the status on a day-to-day basis. As per rules, a society that wants to close down, must apply for the same with the general manager, district industries centre (GMDIG), giving them a 90-day notice. I have called a meeting on May 23 which will be attended by parents and school authorities. I have also asked officials of GMDIG to be present.” 
 
 
