Hubballi: Hubballi-Dharwad, which has been selected under the Centre’s ambitious   project, is all set to be changed forever in the next five years, as the much awaited   and concept report of the project for Hubballi-Dharwad, is ready to be released.

 Ever since Hubballi-Dharwad has been selected under this project, every resident is curious to know about the projects which are being implemented under the project in Hubballi-Dharwad. Now, the technical team for the Smart City project, has completed the task of preparing a feasibility and concept report of the project. If everything goes as planned, this feasibility and concept report will be released on November 6, and distributed among residents. 
 
 S H Naregal, special officer, Smart City Limited, Hubballi-Dharwad told TOI, “The   will be released in the form of a booklet containing 12 colour pages. We are implementing a total 37 projects under the Smart City project in the next five years. Details of each project, including its commencement, deadline, cost and others, have been included in the feasibility report.”
 
 “As the Smart City project is a citizen-based project, we will involve the citizen in each phase of the project. We will seek their feedback about each project, and their suggestions will be incorporated into the final feasibility report, before calling tenders. After releasing the feasibility report, we will engage the resident in the project, by inviting their feedback. We will also hold meetings in all important places in the twin cities, after releasing the booklet. We will take their feedback, if necessary. We can incorporate them into the final detailed project report,” he said. 
 
 He said the renovation of Janata bazar, supermarket in Dharwad, development of major junctions between the airport and railway station, renovation of glass house, core market areas and pan city activities, are some of the important projects to be taken up under the Smart City project in Hubballi-Dharwad. 
 
 He said they are planning to call a tender for the works, which are worth below Rs 5 crore, which will be approved by Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited, and that a global tender will be called for all the works. “The final DPR will be ready by November, and we will probably call a global tender to start works above Rs 5 crore, under this project, with the approval of the government in December,” he said.
 
 He said they will release a booklet in Kannada and English, so that people can easily understand the project, and give suggestions. “Of 37 projects planned for Hubballi-Dharwad, each project is estimated to cost between Rs 50 lakh to Rs 250 crore. A total Rs1,662 crore will be spent under this project, of which Rs 500 crore will be given by the state government,” he said.
 
 
