NEW DELHI: The roads under the jurisdiction of the New Delhi Municipal Council will soon be developed as ‘smart roads’ under the   project of the Union government.   has already started preparations for work on a pilot stretch of 31 km.

 The plan was first proposed by Union minister Venkaiah Naidu in January 2017, during which it was also proposed to make Connaught Place a vehicle-free zone. However, the Connaught Place plan didn’t take off after objections from the New Delhi Traders Association and lack of preparation on the NDMC’s end.
 
 Chairman of NDMC Naresh Kumar said that all roads in its jurisdiction will be developed into   and special features including landscaping, vertical gardens, cycle tracks, street furnitures, plazas/eateries, pelican crossing and 3D zebra crossings will also be added.
 
 “We have developed frames at intersections and will gradually develop them into vertical gardens. It is a new concept and will make NDMC areas greener and brighter,” said Kumar.
 
 The project will also see replacement of street lights with LED lights with the smart pole having Wi-Fi facility. The tender has been floated for the same.
 
 “We have appointed the consultant for the project and work has already been initiated for 3D zebra crossing at many roads. The contract for developing modern street furniture has been awarded to SAIL. The work for developing the pelican crossing will be done in consultation with the Delhi Traffic Police,” said a senior NDMC official.
 
 The smart roads will also have sensor-based smart parking systems. People can book the slot using NDMC’s 311 mobile app at any desired location in advance and pay through e-wallet or net banking.
 
 NDMC has procured 55 smart poles, which will have facilities like Wi-Fi, CCTV camera, environment sensors and LED lighting. “Along with smart poles, these roads will have digital interactive information panels. People can use theses panel for registering any complaints with NDMC and can avail services online. It will take a couple of months to complete the work at the pilot stretch and the same will be replicated across the remaining ones,” added the official.
 
 He further said that point-of-delivery kiosks will be installed at all stretches under NDMC, through which people can avail services at doorsteps. These kiosks will also have video conferencing facility with NDMC officials. “It will help NDMC connect with the people. Using this facility, people can directly speak to NDMC officials and apprise them about the issues in their respective area,” said the senior official.
 
