LUCKNOW: A 22-year-old woman, who had accused Samajwadi party legislator Arun Verma of rape in 2013 but later retracted in court, was found dead near her house in   Saturday night.

 The police have booked Verma and his associates for murder on the basis of the complaint given by the victim's father. Verma is an SP candidate from Sultanpur, which is going to polls on February 27.
 
 The murder has triggered a political storm in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh with the BJP raising the issue of sliding law and order in the state. : Alleged murder of a 22 year-old girl in Sultanpur is set to trigger a political storm as the victim's father on Monday lodged an FIR accusing the local MLA and SP candidate Arun Kumar Verma and his associates.
 
 The case has given fresh ammunition to the party to take on chief minister Akhilesh Yadav. “This is not new with SP . The FIR against the SP MLA only adds to our concern over the deteriorating crime scene in the present regime,“ said BJP's state media in charge, Harish Srivastav.
 
 Chief minister Akhilesh Yadav, however, said one should not jump to conclusion and wait for the investigation to be complete. He gave a clear indication that the government was ready to refer the probe to the   (CBI).
 
 “If the victim's family wants the murder to be probed by any other agency , the state government will recommend the case accordingly,“ he said.The woman was found dead near the boundary wall of the district   building, hours after she went missing from her house just 50 meters away.
 
 According to the post-mortem report, “ligature marks were found on the neck seemed to have been caused by hanging“. The autopsy also noticed a “congested viscera“.
 
 “Since the post-mortem report is not categorical about the cause of death we are seeking opinion from forensic experts,“ Sultanpur SP Pa wan Kumar said.
 
 Taking no chances, the police, however, registered a murder case against Arun Verma and his unidentified associates. “Appropriate action will follow on the basis of investigations and evidence,“ said inspector general of police,  , A Satish Ganesh, who is personally supervising the investigations. The victim had accused Verma and his associates for gang rape in 2013. The investigations, however, revealed that Verma was present in the   when the alleged crime took place.
 
 The victim's father later turned hostile in the court and she herself filed an affidavit stating that the MLA was not involved in the crime. Four local youths were later chargesheeted and the trial is underway.
 
