PATNA: The   has finally assured government schools that distribution of fresh stock of   for Class I to   would begin soon as the printing of books is at its last stage. 

 Surprisingly, the half yearly exam for Class I to VIII will begin from October 5 and continue till October 11. Students of government schools from Class I to VIII are entitled to get free books under  .
 
 In a letter, the department has asked district education officers and district programme officers (under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan) to work out a plan so that the textbooks for 2017-18 session is delivered to schools from block headquarters and block resource centres at the earliest.
 
 The department has also warned heads of schools, officials and teachers who will be engaged in book distribution work against keeping books in storehouses. In a letter to DEOs and DPOs on September 13, principal secretary of education department R K   directed them to send the requirement of textbooks to the officials Bihar State Textbook Publishing Corporation Limited ( ) by September 20.
 
 “DEOs and DPOs were asked to ensure that the books are distributed among school kids within five working days when it is received at block headquarters and block resource centres. After the distribution of books at schools, they should also verify that school kids have got the books or not,” Mahajan said in his letter, adding a team of state officials will be sent to schools for random check.
 
 To monitor the circulation of textbooks in government schools, BSTBPCL will prepare a software on its official website.
 
 BSTPCL managing director M Rama Chandrudu said the textbooks were not issued on time due to several reasons. “We will try to deliver the books at the beginning of the session from the next year onwards,” he added.
 
 Due to lack of books, students of government schools are forced to use second hand and tattered books and sometimes books of private publishers. However, it is not enough as it only covers 35% of the total students from Class I to VIII.
 
