KASHIPUR: In yet another twist in the   custodial death case, a pair of shoes allegedly belonging to the deceased teenager   was found on the roof of the toilet just beside the police barracks where the family of the boy claimed to have fed him dinner on the fateful night. A few rotis and broken liquor bottles were also found near the shoes.

 The discovery, made by the investigating officer while inspecting the Katoratal police outpost premises late on Saturday evening, has raised more questions in the case that already has many loose ends. Was the boy wearing any footwear when his body was found? How did his shoes land on the roof of the toilet? Bipin Chandra Pant, the IO, told TOI that the family has been shown the shoes and they have identified the pair as belonging to the boy. “We are conducting investigations to explore all possible angles,” he said.
 
 Additional superintendent of police   said, “The investigation is already on and the IO in such cases is from outside the district. We are not allowed to interfere with the investigation.”
 
 The family and friends, on the other hand, claim that Raza was wearing the same pair of shoes when they left him in the outpost on February 26. Mohammad  , one of the relatives of the deceased, said, “He was wearing the same shoes. The footwear recovered from the roof of the toilet itself points to a foul play. How did the shoes reach the roof of the toilet?”
 
 The police outpost has three rooms in a row with a toilet on one end in the same row. According to the earlier claims of the family, they fed him dinner on the fateful night in the barrack just besides the toilet. The boy was later found hanging in another room according to the police.
 
 Meanwhile, there is no trace of the missing girl, in connection with whose alleged abduction, the boy was picked up by the police and being questioned. Sources said that the girl is believed to have contacted her father soon after Raza’s death claiming that the boy had no role in her disappearance. Earlier, it had also emerged that the girl was in a relationship with Raza's friend, and not him. The missing girl's location was last traced somewhere around Lucknow and Barabanki. The father of the girl is one of the seven accused in the case and is on the run.
 
