NEW DELHI: The   this year features only five   as compared to an average of 24 from the national capital honoured between 2005 and 2014. Also, the doctors who have been conferred the   are not the ones treating the rich and the famous of Delhi, who are known to push hard for their nominees, but the lesser-known medical practitioners working at the  . 

 Government sources claimed on Wednesday that the Padma awards 2017 were one of “most transparent and balanced” in terms of geographical representation. The selection was based on an online nomination process undertaken between May and September 2016, during which 18,000 nominations for 4,000 nominees were received. Of these, only 89 were chosen. 
 
 “The criterion was ‘excellence plus’ rather than ‘excellence’. Every name passed through several stages with the scrutiny involving rigorous process and objective parameters,” said a government official. He said geographical biases were ruled out by distributing the awards equitably across states, rather than concentrating them in Delhi as seen during the UPA rule. Also, no favouritism was practised towards nominees belonging to the five poll-bound states, he said. 
 
 Artists across diverse disciplines and geographical boundaries were awarded. These included first and only woman Jagar folk singer Basanti Bisht from Uttarakhand, Madhubani painter Baoa Devi, Tilak Gitai, famous for his miniature paintings, and Odia actor Sadhu Meher, who has been in the field of cinema for the last 50 years.
 
 The 2017 list features awardees belonging to all religions. Similarly, authors in various languages, including Sanskrit, Sino-Tibetan language Limboo, Assamese, Kannada, Malayalam, Persian and Hindi were honoured. The Padma awardees this year include many senior citizens who deserved to be honoured but whose talent and services were unrecognised till now. Dalits and tribals too got due representation with Sukri Bommagowda from Karnataka and Limboo from Sikkim being awarded for serving their remote tribes. 
 
