It was a homecoming of sorts for 
  and 
  when they recently visited Jaipur to promote their upcoming flick ' '. How, you ask? The duo has spent enough time shooting for the film in   that they feel they belong here! Says Varun, "We have made an emotional bond with Rajasthan thanks to our extended shooting schedule in Jaipur and Kota. Waking up to the sounds of peacocks and watching squirrels outside the hotel window had become a routine for us!" Alia adds, "In fact, itne din   mein rehne ke baad mujhe lagne laga tha ki main Kota mein sabko janti hoon. Har roz kitne log humein shooting set par milne aate thay. I am playing a Kota girl in the film, and now I’ve actually started feeling that I belong to the city!" 

  
  
 
 
 
  
 Alia and Varun shot for several sequences in both Jaipur and Kota in the summer last year. In their two-week schedule in Kota, the actors relished Kota ki kachori and aloo ka halwa – which Varun calls alwa! "It was a completely royal stay in both the cities. We were putting up in a palace in Kota and met erstwhile royals there. We had Kota people coming to the sets to meet us. We quite enjoyed the kind of warm reception we got from the people there. It made our stay seem like a holiday," Varun says. 
 
  
  While Varun is a Jhansi boy in the film, Alia plays a girl from Kota. Don't miss the vibrant Rajasthani-print kurtis and silver jewellery she's sporting in the film 
 
  They also had their share of adventure in Kota, as Varun recalls an incident while they were shooting in  . "Apart from all the warmth and hospitality, we also had a scary moment in Kota. My memory is still fresh with that incident and I still get goosebumps thinking about it."
 
  Varun recalls, "Once we were shooting in Chambal River, which is famous for its crocodile population. I and my co-actor Saahil were sitting in a boat and after reaching in the middle of the river we saw a huge crocodile coming closer to our boat with its mouth wide open. We did not know what to do or how inform our crew members, who were at a jetty nearby. We kept our calm and thankfully, the boatman had the presence of mind and he quickly turned the boat so that we could reach the bank in time. I remember the crocodile too was speeding towards us. We took a sigh of relief when we got off the boat. God was kind enough to save us."
 
  
  The film had a sequence where Varun and Alia had to shoot in Chambal River
 
  
 The film also has a Holi song, and Varun seemed to have gotten confused between Barsana's (UP) latthmaar Holi and the Holi celebrated in Rajasthan. During his interaction with the fans on his promotional trip, he asked, "Yahan lathicharge wali Holi hoti hai kya?’ Without wasting a moment, Alia corrected him, "Lathicharge wali Holi nahi latthmaar Holi." Realising his mistake, Varun smiled and added, "Haan mera wahi matlab tha, aap log samajh gaye na? Actually, it's a Holi release, so I just wanted to inform you all that we have a Holi song in the film. I am sure everyone will like it."
 
  
 
 
