MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the   on Thursday has directed the state’s milk and dairy development minister   to file a counter to a petition that sought registration of FIR against him in a case which suspected him of playing a role in the murder of an   councillor.

 Justice B Gokuldas heard the petition filed by one P   from Virudhunagar. The petitioner’s side said that Sivasubramanian’s brother   of AIADMK who was a councillor was killed on May 3, 2014 in Rajapalayam, regarding which police are investigating the case. The petitioner suspected that the minister might have played a role in the killing and wanted the police to include his (minister’s) name in the case. 
 
 Subsequently, the petitioner on October 18, 2015 happened to watch the minister’s interview in a private television channel. When the programmer asked the minister about the killing of the petitioner’s brother and the accusation levelled against him, the minister allegedly replied that he would kill the petitioner. 
 
 It led Sivasubramanian to file a complaint before the Rajapalayam North police on October 29 seeking to register a FIR against the minister as he had threatened him. But, there was no action due to which the petitioner gave another complaint to the SP of the district on November 5. But, his efforts went futile which prompted him to move the judicial magistrate court (Rajapalayam) by filing a petition seeking direction to the police to register an FIR. 
 
 But, the magistrate A Vanathi on April 28, last dismissed the petition by saying that the CD produced was not clear and dismissed the petition.
 
 “The magistrate simply dismissed the petition on the sole ground that it had not proved the voice in the CD was of the proposed accused (minister). The CD produced had the video and audio clippings. If the magistrate had doubt over the voice, the magistrate would have sought expert opinion and would have also examined the witnesses, the details of which were available in the petition. But, the magistrate failed to do it,” the counsel said. 
 
 Thus, it is necessary to set aside the order of the magistrate and to direct to register an FIR against the minister, the counsel prayed. 
 
 Following it, the judge ordered a counter to be filed by the minister.
 
 
