PUDUCHERRY: Chief minister   on Sunday endorsed the ruling of the assembly speaker over the replacement of a top civic official, an issue over which the governor   has locked horns with the government. 

 Terming as "invalid" the replacement of Puducherry municipal commissioner R Chandrasekaran based on a ruling of speaker V Vaithilingam on March 30, Bedi had said she was the "competent authority" regarding officials' service matters.
 
 The speaker had ordered the replacement of the commissioner after an opposition AIADMK (Amma) MLA raised a privilege issue against him.
 
 Addressing reporters here, Narayanasamy said the speaker's ruling was implemented immediately by him as chief minister, in keeping with the rules governing the Union Territory administration.
 
 "The ruling of the speaker is final and is in total agreement with the provisions of Rule 312 of the Business Rules of the Assembly. The ruling cannot be changed by any other source," he said.
 
 Narayanasamy said if the ruling of the speaker "is not enforced, me and my team of ministers will be accused of dishonouring the ruling of the Chair. We will face a privilege issue and also face serious punitive action including imprisonment."
 
 The chief minister said he had also written a detailed letter to the lt governor about "the full proceedings on the floor of the House on March 30 relating to the debate on the Commissioner, the ruling of the speaker and its immediate implementation."
 
 He said he had also simultaneously apprised the Prime Minister and Union home minister about the speaker's ruling and its implementation.
 
 Reacting to the CM's remarks, Kiran Bedi, in a statement, maintained that the legislature of the Union territory of Puducherry was not empowered to make appointments. "The chief minister in his press conference this afternoon is taking responsibility for the transfer order of municipal commissioner because he now knows the chief secretary is vulnerable to department action for violation of rules," she said.
 
 The chief secretary had taken the action despite her "clear warning" through email a day before he issued the orders. 
 
 "Under the business rules the legislature is not empowered to make appointments. The chief minister can propose names for transfers and postings but the final decision is that of the lt governor as per Rule 47," Bedi said in a statement.
 
 Maintaining that the transfer order was not a small administrative routine, she said the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues are free to approach the Union government or the higher courts and seek clarifications in this regard.
 
 "Fact is that chief secretary has to explain the signing of transfer orders in violation of rules and instructions. Even if it's under pressure he was expected to guide the political masters correctly," she said.
 
 Bedi said the Union home secretary has already questioned the chief secretary for his failure to refer the transfer issue to the lt governor. 
 
 Narayanasamy said the rules relating to administration clearly stated that the chief minister had full statutory powers to issue orders to keep an officer under compulsory wait or to assign additional charge of a post to another officer.
 
