MUMBAI: In a bizarre coincidence, the   Road took place on the same day as the project to build a wider   access for the station was bid out. Tenders went online hours after 23 passengers lost their lives on a narrow staircase. A senior official conceded that the file “kept moving from one department to another and it took almost five years to get work initiated on the ground."

 Part of the reason for development to remain frozen near Elphinstone Road and Parel stations was the deadlock over a plan to build a new terminus at Parel, railways said on Saturday .
 
 Reacting to former railway minister Suresh Prabhu's statement that a “lackaidaisical" administration had failed to build awider pedestrian bridge despite his go-ahead, Western Railway said had designs for the Parel yard been finalized, work would not have been held up on the second foot over-bridge (FOB) at Elphinstone Road.
 
 Elphinstone Road on the Western Railway line and Parel on   are connected by a five-meter-wide foot over-bridge. The stampede which killed 23 passengers occurred near the exit on the western side of Elphinstone Road station on Friday morning.
 
 Due to a surge in footfalls over the past few years following rapid redevelopment on mill lands, CR had planned to upgrade Parel station to a terminus by laying additional platforms so that trains can originate and terminate at Parel, thus taking load off the existing slow line which carries trains stopping at platform 1and 2.
 
 According to the original plan, CR wanted to build a terminus building and elevated booking deck, apart from laying additional tracks between   and Kurla. Railways plan to operate at least 100 more services from Parel on the completion of a fifth and sixth line between CST and Kurla. Once executed,   traffic will have an exclusive corridor.
 
 The project was mooted in 2012 by then general manager of CR Subodh Jain and was expected to be done by 2015. However, slowed down by railway red-tapism, work on the platforms began in March 2017; it is now expected to be complete four years past the deadline in 2019.
 
 In a press statement, WR conceded that “the major constraint“ to construction of a bigger pedestrian bridge at Elphinstone was the unfinished yard remodelling plan for Parel which was held up until February 2017. Reacting to Prabhu's criticism, WR said the designs, however, have now been finalised, and estimates drawn up and tenders floated for the FOB on September 29.
 
