NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   on Saturday exhorted all the "citizens to resolve on this day of Vijaydashmi or Dussehra to contribute in some constructive way towards nation-building by 2022, when India would celebrate 75 years of its independence."

 In his Dussehra address, the Prime Minister asserted that the festival is not merely a source of entertainment, but should also inspire people and give them the resolve to do something for society and the nation.
  
  
 "Festivals like Dussehra should not be seen as mere source of entertainment but should also become an ambition and resolve to do something," Modi said while addressing a gathering at Shri Dharmik Ram Leela at the Red Fort before the effigies of demon king Ravana, and his brother Meghnad and son Kumbhakaran were set afire to symbolise the victory of good over evil.
 
 "Our festivals are associated with farming, rivers, mountains, history, and of course with our cultural traditions. They are a means of societal training as they enhance social bonding and sensitivity, keep the societal values alive and teach to continuously strive to do away with evils," Modi said.
 
 Modi said that thousands of years have passed but the lore of Lord Rama and Lord Krishna keeps inspiring humankind even today.
 
 He said that in his conquest of Lanka -- whose kind Ravana had abducted Lord Rama's wife Sita, according to Ramayana -- Lord Rama mobilised every section of society, from human beings to animals.
 
 "Burning of Ravana is a part of tradition, but as citizens, we will also have to strive to end the streak of evil (Ravana pravratti) in society," he said.
 
 "After defeating Ravana, Lord Rama continued to serve society with humility. Today, let us resolve as citizens of India to make positive contributions towards the nation by 2022, to make India of the dreams of our great freedom fighters. Let us make a resolve like Lord Rama," Modi said.
  
  
 President Ram Nath Kovind also urged the people to adopt values reflected by Lord Rama's life in their lives to create a better society.
  
  
 "We all know Dussehra is the celebration of victory of good over evil... the ideals of Lord Ram's life are relevant for the whole humanity today. We all know about the values, but it would be of use only when we adopt these in our lives," the President said.
 
  
  
 
