NAGPUR: Taking cognisance of one in five neonates (less than 4-week-old infants) dying at   ( ), the college has proposed a  .

 GMCH paediatric department head Dr CM Bokade has written a letter to dean Dr Abhimanyu Niswade, who sent a proposal to the Directorate of Medial Education and Research (DMER) during the 2016 winter legislative assembly.
 
 Dr Bokade is positive about DMER approving the project. He said, “We are hoping the project will be approved soon, since neonatal care is a priority as the only way to reduce infant   rate.”
 
 Dr Bokade told TOI, “Around 14,000 deliveries take place at GMCH annually, of which 30% of the babies require intensive care. Among the admitted neonates at NICU, 20 to 30% die. Ideally, the death rate should be below 20%. Efforts will be taken in the new department to reduce the mortality rate.”
 
 The proposed department will come on 5 acre land beside the girls hostel and will comprise ground-plus-two-floor structure. Level-3 will be dedicated to neonates born in GMCH and will consist of 40 beds. Within these 40 beds, 20 beds will provide life support for serious cases while 10 beds will comprise a ‘High Dependent Unit’ for recovering babies which still need more intensive care than a normal ward. The remaining 10 beds will be for septic neonates, who have to be kept in isolation. The same pattern will be replicated at level-2, which will be for babies born outside GMCH.
 
 He said, “The existing NICU at the paediatric department has 20 beds, so only babies born in GMCH are admitted. The other babies referred here, who might need intensive care, have to be treated at the neonatal ward. We don’t admit out-born patients to NICU because most of them generally come in septic condition, and admitting them with other babies can spread infection.”
 
 The proposed department will be instrumental in solving many such problems being facing at present.
 
 TOI had on July 14, 2016, reported the response to an RTI query by Abhay Kolarkar, which revealed that in last three years, 3,722 of the 20,614 paediatric patients admitted to GMCH did not make it.
 
 Commenting on this data, Dr Bokade said, “Most of the paediatric deaths at GMCH occur among neonates, who are referred to GMCH at the last stage from places like Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH), Daga Hospital, Lata Mangeshkar Hospital and private hospital on the city peripheries.” 
 
 
