PUNE: The 2018-19 academic year will see a change in textbooks for Std I to Std IV apart from an overhaul of all textbooks from Std I to Std XII.

 The decision has been taken based on several reports by both state and outside agencies that have indicated low learning levels among children, said education department officials.
 
 The state education department will constitute two new teams for quality improvement in   and   subjects in schools.The website of Vidya Pradhikaran, which looks after curricula development for all state-run schools, now includes a link urging experts to be part of the two teams.
 
 However, activists have questioned the move as the state government had formed an entirely new team of curricula developers only two years ago. Another concern among teachers is that the textbooks till Std VI were changed last year yet there are plans to rejig all textbooks for Std I to Std IV in the 2018-19 academic year.
 
 “Everyone, who was selected two years ago, has been asked to apply again. There are talks of revamping the entire committee. I don't understand why we would have to go through the same process once again,“ said  , chairman of the board of studies for Mathematics.
 
 “In our search for the reason why children are not learning, we found that textbooks are the biggest issue. We will change the textbooks from Std I to Std IV next year,“ said  , principal secretary , school education.
 
 “The board of studies will be revamped entirely . All existing team members can reapply as can other applicants. An expert committee will select competent people, who can change the textbooks drastically . We will make sure that continuity is maintained from Std I to Std XII so changes can be expected in later classes as well,“ Kumar added.
 
 The senior official further said that it is time to accept the fact that if children are not learning, then the education department is responsible and should be asked to work towards improving the education.
 
 “We keep blaming others for the low level of learning but it is time to accept the responsibility for education in the state and work towards improving the situation.Change in textbooks is the first step,“ said Kumar.
 
