VELLORE: In a welcome move, the   Corporation for Women Development has established the state’s first City livelihood centre-service centre (CLC-SC)at  . Now, residents of the Fort City can find plumbers, electricians or a tuition teacher by just making a phone call.

 The CLC-SC has been established under the centre’s   (NULM). Being the first such facility in the state, it would provide service in 36 fields. Public can contact the service centre over phone (0416-2212551) to hire technicians for household works. 
 
 The centre was inaugurated by Vellore collector S A Raman at the district panchayat office.
 
 The centre would send technicians to attend the customer complaints. Customers should pay the technicians who attend complaints. Of the total amount earned by the technician, 10% would be paid to the centre. “If a car or bike develops a snag, mechanics will go the spot and repair,” said an official.
 
 With the help of community coordinators, authorities have enrolled 77 experienced people in different trades. “We have received over 12o applications from electricians to tuition teachers. We have verified their records and shortlisted 77 persons. “They will be in our regular service providers list. We will continue to register well-qualified persons to have a pool of service provides in the coming days,” said project director of TN Corporation for Women Development, Vellore, A R Sivaraman. The department has engaged a lady to book calls at the centre, which will be open from 9am to 8pm. “We will also conduct post service inquiry with customers to ensure the quality of the service and also to ensure that the customers are not charged extra. We are also planning to replicate Rajasthan’s successful model and extend more services in the coming days,” Sivaraman added.
 
  The list of services include electrician, plumber, musician, driver, conductor, mason, typist, cook, painters and carpenters , auto driver, tailor, television mechanic, orchestra, dance and music teacher, tuition teacher, gardener, two-wheeler and four-wheeler mechanic, air conditioner mechanic, roof gardening, wielder, laundry, courier service, water tank and sewage tank cleaning, children and caretakers for patients.
 
