Nagpur: Swine flu has been makings its presence felt throughout last year, but it’s grown like wildfire since the beginning of this month. In the last two days, eleven patients have died due to swine flu in Nagpur division, taking this year’s toll to 73. On September 20 alone, 13 new cases of swine flu were registered in the city. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) data shows 190 patients have been detected positive for the flu, of which 49% (totally 92 cases) have been recorded between September 1 and 20. As per the state public health department data, the toll of positive cases across Nagpur division has reached 359, of which 43% (totally 167 cases) have been recorded in just the last 20 days. After the outbreak in 2015, this year has so far witnessed the largest number of deaths due to swine flu. However, neither public health department nor NMC are declaring it as an outbreak as yet. A NMC health department officer said, “It is called an outbreak when the flu passes from the patient to his relatives and later the entire locality. In this case, we are proud that we did not let such a situation come to pass.” The officer said, “If we analyse the data of 2015, the cases were mostly concentrated in three to four areas. This year, there is no particular locality which is host to a large number of cases. Swine flu patients have been recorded from all corners of the city.” At the same time, equal number of cases are coming from urban and slum areas, the officer added. At Orange City Hospital (OCHRI), there are seven patients being treated for swine flu, of whom three are in ICU on non-invasive ventilator. Dr Nooral Ameen said, “Unlike the old pattern, when the patients would mostly belong to older age, this time we are getting equal number of patients from all age groups. There have been a good portion of paediatric patients. The youngest we have treated is a four-year-old.” At CritiCare hospital, there are eight patients of whom two are in ICU. One is an elderly lady while another one is a middle-aged man. Doctors fear that the rising incidence has a lot to do with the ongoing festivities. Intensivist Dr Rajan Barokar of Aditya Hospital said, “Swine flu is spreading like wildfire. Currently, people should avoid going for celebrations at crowded places. I, as a doctor, am worried about this problem going out of control. The sad part is many ICUs of the city are full and it’s becoming difficult to accommodate new serious patients. Staying home during this season of festivities is the key to safety.” 