KOLKATA: The city's digital “change“ is going back to old ways. Six months after demonetisation was announced by PM   last November, TOI revisited some shops that were quick to travel the cashless road. The winds of change that brought in   and e-payments to traditional shops have blown over. Cash is back.

 Gitanjali Book Stall on College Street has climbed down from the celebrity status it enjoyed for three months. It was one of those rare bookstores that created history by installing a card swipe machine soon after demonetisation. Owner Dilip Mondal also installed two mobile apps to facilitate sales at a time the entire book market was cursing the absence of cash.
 
 Everything changed after January. As the textbook season started this MarchApril, Mondal realized that both his card machine and his apps were being used infrequently. Between November and January, he did 60% of his business through non cash transactions, but since March, it has been less than 10 per cent. Mondal is, however, optimistic about noncash business too. “It's best to be prepared,“ he says.
 
 Dasgupta and Co., one of the oldest bookstores on College Street since 1886, started credit card facilities more than 20 years ago. “We have never seen such demand for a swipe machine. From November to January , we did 70% of our transactions through cards and mobile wallet. But as the crunch eased, buyers were back to cash. In this textbook season that started in March and would end with the summer vacation in May , less than 20% transactions have happened by card and other forms of online payment,“ said owner Arabindo Dasgupta. A Gariahat hawker who sells sarees surprised everyone in November when he announced that his shop Ektu Alada, would accept mobile cash transfers.
 
 When most hawkers in Gariahat were depressed as there was no business the whole of November last year, Badal Debnath was happy. He had downloaded a mobile wallet app, put up its sticker on his stall and also a signboard to announce it.
 
 “Demonetisation proved lucky for me then. Though business was down, there was a steady chain of customers in my shop. Some others also switched over to e-payment methods. But now, the scenario has completely changed. Not a single customer is paying through e-wallet. I haven't given it up yet. Fashions come and go,“ Debnath said.
 
 The story is the same for fuchkawala Sursagar Shaw, who has been selling fuchkas at Hogg Market for 22 years. The sticker announcing his willingness to accept mobile cash has become a “showpiece“ now. “We would happily show off our app to customers, within days after the demonetisation announcement.Young buyers with e-wallets would flock to us. Though, I charge Rs 10 for four pieces of fuchkas, during those da ys people were holding on to every penny they ny they had in a bid to save the change. Today it seems like a dream...now that cash is flowing in the market like before and everyone has a 10or 20-rupee note to spare. People find it easier to pay by cash than access their e-wallet, even if they have one,“ he said.
 
