GUWAHATI: With a year behind it, the  's promise of protecting jati, mati and bheti ( ,  ) by making the state free of   from   is yet to be fulfilled. 

 "It has been three years of the BJP government at the Centre and one year of the BJP-led government in the state. Both the governments had promised to detect and deport foreigners from the state. According to me, nothing has happened in reality since both governments came to power," working president of Assam Sanmilita Mahasangha (ASM) Motiur Rahman said.
 
 While recent eviction drives against encroachers from government lands and from plots belonging to satras (Vaishnavite monasteries) is being touted as the government's commitment to secure land for the indigenous people, people of the state are yet to see any progress in making the state immigrants free as was promised.
 
 The ASM has petitioned the Supreme Court against Section 6A of the Citizenship Act, 1955 which included Assam Accord's cut-off date (March 25, 1971) for determining foreigners in the state. The case is being heard by the Supreme's Court's constitutional bench.
 
 "The verdict of the constitutional bench of the apex court will only set the source of solving foreigner issue in the state. All our hope now lies with the apex court," Rahman said. 
 
 BJP, however, reiterated that the Sarbananda Sonowal government is firm on settling the protracted immigrants' problem by implementing the Assam Accord clause by clause.
 
 "Our government is fully focused on making Assam free of foreigners, corruption, terrorism and pollution. These are the commitments our government is working relentlessly to fulfil. We have an unwavering stand on these commitments," BJP spokesperson Pramod Swami said.
 
 One of the resolutions passed by the BJP's executive meeting last month passed was on the government's seriousness on solving the foreigners' problem by preparing a foolproof National Register of Citizens (NRC).
 
 The speed, or alleged lack of it, of the state government's NRC update process has not gone down well with many.
 
 "We want the problem of Bangladeshis (foreigners) to be solved once and for all. For this NRC, updating work has to be sped up. Unfortunately, this is not happening," MP and All India United Democratic Front chief Badruddin Ajmal said.
 
 But both the state government and BJP defended it, saying that the NRC updating work is progressing in a meticulous manner to ensure that no foreigner's name is included in the document.
 
 While the BJP-led government asserts its commitment to solve the foreigner's problem, it also came in for criticism regarding the Centre's proposal to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan by amending the Citizenship Act. Several organisations in the state are up in arms against the proposal, fearing that the state's indigenous population will be swamped by the influx of religious minorities from Bangladesh.
 
 In an effort to allay this fear, Union home minister on December last year, assured here that Assamese identity and culture would be safeguarded by providing constitutional, administrative and legislative protection under the Clause 6 of Assam Accord. 
 
 
