BHOPAL: Harassed by   and  , a group of people in Hinota village of   staged a demonstration on a dry bed of river Ken from Wednesday. The villagers demanded demolition of an   constructed by the mafia, like it was done in neighbouring Panna, where the bridge was constructed on the same river.

 Local   from Chandla RD Prajapati, who has also been writing to the government over the issue of illegal mining, has extended support to the hunger strike.
 
 Kamal Singh, a villager sitting on hunger strike said, “A large number of trucks ply during night creating clouds of dust and sand around the village. The level of pollution is so high that it becomes difficult to even breathe.”
 
 Singh said the village is 500 metres from the mine where illegal mining goes on in night. “Constructing bridge on the river is illegal,” he said. Raja Bhaiya Singh, husband of sarpanch of Hinota village, Sunita Singh is leading the agitation
 
 But bridge comes under the jurisdiction of Panna district, administrative officers in Chattarpur said pleading anonymity and the mafia is strong. During day time, they illegally mine sand and as sand started exhausting there, they have built this bridge to carry out illegal mining in Chattarpur villages, they said.
 
 Chattarpur district collector Ramesh Bhandari said, “It’s a dispute between two districts. I am on leave and have already sent officials for a spot inspection. We will resolve the issue soon. Action will be initiated in case we find anything illegal.”
 
 The BJP MLA, sounds helpless. He says he has been raising the issue in the assembly for long. This time again, I will raise it. I have also written letters to the government officials and to the chief minister, but in vain, he said.
 
 The district administration of Panna demolished yet another illegal bridge now at Chandora village sand mines in the district on Tuesday. It was constructed by the mafia to transport illegally mined sand.
 
 Last month, the administration in Panna demolished two similar bridges, about 50 metres in length, was also found constructed at Nehra village on a shallow part of Ken river to facilitate transportation of illegally mined sand. It was made up of iron pipes, clay and wooden logs.
 
