PATIALA: A letter sent to Prime Minister   through the PM India portal has made the Punjab vigilance bureau act against   seekers in Khamano town of   district, who were forcing a Doraha-based contractor to shell out money to release his payment.

 Rohit Kumar had bid for a tender floated by the Khamano nagar panchayat for supply of electrical equipment worth Rs 3 lakh. He was allegedly asked by the officials of the civic body to pay a 19 per cent cut for rele asing a cheque of Rs 2.6 lakh after he quoted prices that were 31.11 per cent lower than the market value of the branded equipment.
 
 “The tenders were floated for supply of equipment worth Rs 3 lakh, and I had quoted a lower price on the basis of which I was awarded the tender that was applied online. I felt that the entire exercise of demonetisation had failed to restrain corruption in government offices and decided to write to the PM,“ he said.
 
 Rohit said, “The complaint was filed on January 27 after I recorded a conversation with the junior engineer, store clerk and accountant of the Khamano nagar panchayat, in which they demanded the money. The next day I got a revert mail, informing me that additional chief secretary NS Kalsi had been asked to look into the matter. Following this, a team of state vigilance bureau led by DSP KD Sharma was asked to lay a trap and nab the culprit.“
 
 Rohit alleged even as he pleaded with the three officials that he was not earning more than Rs 3,000 as he had quoted a reduced price of the branded equipment, they “showed mercy“ and cut their commission by 1 per cent each and asked him to turn up with 16 per cent of the payment amount if he wanted his cheque to be released.
 
 On February 8, Rohit met JE Jung Bahadur, accountant   and sto re incharge   and he recorded the conversation. “I handed over Rs 32,000 to Mukesh in presence of the JE, following which the store keeper asked me to pay him Rs 2,000 as he had entered his bill details in the register. I gave him the money. Meanwhile, Mukesh got suspicious, but before he could do anything, the vigilance team arrested him and Rajinder while Jung Bahadur managed to give the sleuths a slip,“ Mukesh added.
 
 The DSP said that they had recovered the trap money of Rs 34,000 and arrested two accused while efforts were on to track the JE.
 
