LUDHIANA: Groping in the dark for a week since the murder of dera follower father-son duo at Jagera village of Ludhiana, police in an unusual move announced to reward anyone giving a clue to identity of the shooters with a job of sub-inspector and Rs 50 lakh.

 Ludhiana range DIG, S K Kalia, who is heading the special investigation team (SIT) probing the case, confirmed the decision. “The killing of the two persons at Jagera was crime against humanity. We have announced to reward the person who gives us information about the killers. The informer’s identity will be kept secret,” he added.
 
 On February 25, 65-year-old Satpal Kumar, a manager at brick kiln in Saiyan near Dehlon, and 35-year-old son Ramesh Kumar, a trader of men’s apparels, were shot dead. They were routinely performing ‘sewa’ at the canteen of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s congregation place ‘naam charcha ghar’ at Jagera village in Payal area on the evening of Saturday last when two bike-borne men shot them.
 
 The assailants who had their faces covered fired shots at the CCTV camera installed there before fleeing. The incident led to major protests by dera followers, who for four days even refused to cremate the bodies of the two victims.
 
 The announcement of job as reward, along with huge amount of cash, meanwhile has come under criticism from the economists and legal experts who said such a move was strange. Senior police officials, however, claimed that reward can be anything, including a job.
 
 Leading agricultural economist Sardara Singh Johal said that he had rarely heard about such a reward. It reflected anxiousness on part of the police, who were not able to catch the culprits, he said.
 
 Another economist Maan Singh Toor also averred that offering job as a reward for sharing information about killers was not justified. “Everything these days is popularity based. Police should catch the killers in the case as they have been doing in other criminal cases. Giving job to anyone sharing information about this particular case is unjustified. On what basis are they are giving job to the person who shares such information? What if he is not qualified? If people start sharing such information with mala fide intentions, then who will be answerable,” asked Toor.
 
 
 
 
 “Government can offer jobs on compassionate grounds to the family members of the victims but it has to give valid reasons as defined by the high courts and the Supreme Court. However, job as reward is not legally valid,” said Parupkar Singh Ghuman, senior advocate and member of Punjab and Haryana Bar Council.
 
 When asked to respond, DIG S K Kalia said that it was a reward for information and the reward could be in the form of job as well. He said that police were competent to announce such a reward as it was viable and could be offered.
 
 
