BATHINDA: Demanding action against the tantriks(occultists)accused to have provoked the family members in mercilessly killing two kids for exorcism at village Kotfatta in Bathinda, the residents of village Kotfata and surroundings villages on Sunday blocked the road traffic on   road and held a protest for 2 hours. The protesters demanded to identify the tantriks who had visited the village Kotfatta family on the day of killing of the kids on March 8 and arrest them. The protest was lifted after police announced that tantric   of Kaliwali has been arrested and action against others find guilty will be taken. The kids Ranjot(5)and Anamika(3)were killed of electrocution after mercilessly beaten up by none other than grandmother of the kids Nirmal Kaur and father of kids Kulwinder Singh on March 8. Both Nirmal Kaur and Kulwinder were arrested and mother of the kids Rozy too was named into the murder case but was not arrested. The family had called some tantriks for exorcism before the kids were killed but they have not been included in the case.

 Earlier on Sunday afternoon the bhog ceremony of the kids was performed at village Kotfatta gurdwara. 
 
 The residents of Kotfatta and surrounding villages last week had formed a panel and had demanded action against tantriks. The action committee too have decided to form committees in villages to not allow tantriks to visit villages in the name of exorcism. r 
 
 Nirmal Kaur, claimed to have divine powers, wanted to cure her mentally ailing sister Prem Lata. She had called some tantric at her residence who suggested giving electric shocks to the kids which continued for three days, said villagers.
 
 Action committee members   and Iqbal Singh said “six tantriks were in touch with the family of Nirmal Kaur including one tantric from village Kalianwali in Muktsar district named Lakhi Baba. At least three of them were at the residence of Nirmal Kaur on March 8 when the kids were killed but police has failed in taking action against these tantriks who provoked Nirmal Kaur in killing the kids”. They said the residents of Kotfatta and surrounding villages have resolved not to allow tantriks in villages for obvious reasons. 
 
 Bathinda SSP   said “tantric Lakha Baba of village Kalianwali has been arrested and police is investigating the role of others and nobody found guilty in the merciless killing of kids will be spared”. 
 
