Jamshedpur: The medium, small and micro enterprises ( ) of Adityapur industrial area are gearing up for the pan-India roll out of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) system. With almost seven weeks left for the roll out of the comprehensive indirect tax system, the entrepreneurs of the Steel City have said many points related to the transition from the VAT (value added tax) regime to the   are yet to be explained. 

 “There’s no denying that the commercial tax department officials are continuously engaging with the MSME entrepreneurs to enlighten them about the nitty-gritty of the GST system. However, there are multiple points that are yet to be explained to the unit (industry) owners,” Santosh Khetan, vice-president, Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA), said. 
 
 Many industrial leaders said issues including the rules related to input tax credit, stock transfer, inverted duty structure, income tax claims among others are some of the aspects that require comprehensive training session. 
 
 Veteran entrepreneur, Suresh Sonthalia explained how a sense of confusion prevailed among factory owners. “Under the GST, the input tax credit will be dependent on our suppliers’ compliance. It means a supplier should file the return declaring the outward supplies along with the tax payment. But, if the supplier fails to file the return then the input credit claimed by me will be reversed,” Sonthalia, who is a functionary of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FJCCI), said.. 
 
 A young entrepreneur, SK Chaudhary, who owns an industrial paints manufacturing unit in Adityapur, said, “The GST has been identified as one of the biggest path-breaking reforms in the recent history and, therefore, it has become critical for the businesses to have a thorough understanding of this tax reform.” 
 
 “Once the GST is implemented the government should give grace period to the MSMEs to understand its functioning and avoid attracting penalty for discrepancies and delays in filling taxes,” said a factory owner, Ashok Bhalotia.
 
 The officials of the commercial tax department, however, said that regular training sessions were being organised. They said more such sessions will be organised. 
 
 “In the GST system dealers and suppliers are an important component of tax collection and we are putting adequate focus on training them on tax compliance along with the remaining stakeholders,” deputy commissioner (commercial taxes), Jamshedpur, Pradeep Kumar, said.
 
 
