Canacona: Scarcity of drinking  , a problem that was restricted to a few of Canacona’s rural areas earlier, has spread to several other parts of the taluka over the last year, resulting in a drought-like situation. 

 The villages of Cotigao and Gaondongorim are among the worst hit. Tankers supply water only once every three to four days, forcing villagers to walk long distances and virtually dig the ground to draw small amounts of the precious resource. Vegetable plantations in these areas have taken a beating too, with many fields having virtually dried up. 
 
 Taramati Gaonkar, a resident of Bhupar, Gaondongorim, says one member of her family is solely entrusted with drawing the household’s daily drinking water supply, an arduous task given that it takes over an hour to merely fill a single pail from a little pool in the ground and then walk home with it. 
 
 A senior citizen from Sristhal, Gaondongorim, Babu Gaonkar, is upset over the government’s laxity in providing its citizens with a basic necessity. “This ward comprises 16 households, all of which are struggling to get hold of a single drop of water. I own the ward’s only well, which is being dug deeper and deeper if only to obtain a feet or two of water,” he says.
 
 While engineers attached to the water resources department have insisted that the Chapoli dam holds sufficient water for a whole year, they claim that the pipeline supplying water to the area is old, 33 years to be precise, and very narrow. As a result, settlements located within a 200-300 metre radius of the dam face severe water scarcity. 
 
 For instance, a ward that is situated in proximity to the dam gets supply only once or twice a week, leaving its 18 households with no option but to walk 700 metres to a natural source to fetch water. 
 
 “It is amply clear that the department lacks the will to supply water to the people, as it ought to have laid a new pipeline well before the summer,” social worker Janardhan Bhandari, says. 
 
 Water scarcity has surfaced in the taluka’s municipal areas, too, for although the resource is supplied to these zones every alternate day, it is available only to those living on the ground and first floors of residential complexes due to poor pressure. The lack of set supply timings inconveniences people further. 
 
 Many residents have also complained that the water supplied to them is dirty and unsuitable for drinking and cooking, leading them to buy and consume packaged drinking water instead. 
 
  MLA Isidore Fernandes admits that a water crisis has hit the taluka, adding that his office receives at least 60 to 70 phone calls a day from citizens complaining about the problem.
 
 “It is very difficult to solve the issue this year itself, as a whole new supply network has to be laid and motors have to be changed. I, however, assure that the people of Canacona will not face any shortage of water next year,” Fernandes says. 
 
 
