NASHIK:   (CR) authorities have slashed the permissible limit of delay for nine intercity trains connecting Mumbai with Nashik Road and Pune by 10 minutes. 

 The nine trains have got the status of “suburban trains” as far as punctuality is concerned and will from now be allowed a delay of 5 minutes instead of the current 15 minutes to reach their respective destinations.
 
 “If arrivals of these trains are delayed by over five minutes, the authorities responsible for their timings will be pulled up. They will be issued memo and asked to explain the reasons for the delay,” a senior Central Railway official told TOI. 
 
 The Central Railway’s move will benefit commuters, particularly the officer-goers who use the intercity trains daily. According to an estimate. over 5,000 people use three trains — Panchavati Express, Rajya Rani Express and Godavari Superfast Express — plying via Nashik Road to reach Mumbai and return to Nashik daily. These trains originate from Manmad station, about 72km from Nashik Road station. 
 
 Central Railway general manager D K Sharma on January 21 shot off a letter to the authorities, asking them to ensure that these trains do not get delayed by over 5 minutes. Else, it will be treated as “punctuality loss”. 
 
 “The   has decided to upgrade its services on several fronts. Focus is on cleanliness and punctuality to build its image. While there has been much improvement in terms of cleanliness, the emphasis is now on punctuality. As part of this, it has been decided to ensure the intercity trains are punctual,” a senior railway officer said.
 
 “This is good news for us. All the three trains may be starting a bit late from Nashik, but generally make up their time as they reach Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus. There have also been occasions when the trains reached later than 15 minutes as well. This, we hope, will be a thing of past,” said Rajan Dusane, a Nashik resident working in the postal department in Mumbai.
 
 Hundreds of office-goers also travel by Panchavati Express and Rajya Rani Express to Mumbai on daily basis. “After a long time it seems that the Railway authorities have heard us. We believe that the Railways will start some direct and fast trains between Nashik and Mumbai,” said Suhasini Waghmare, a resident of Nashik working with a private company in Mumbai.
 
 Rajesh Fokne, a member of the Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (DRUCC), said, “The Panchavati Express from Nashik Road to Mumbai in the morning used to get delayed because of the movement of Duronto Express. There have been a couple of agitations in the past. The authorities made some changes and the problem has been resolved. We hope to get special train between Nashik and Pune soon.” 
 
 
