BENGALURU: It could take a while figuring if the gathering of 'sacked and ineligible cricket administrators' of the   in Bengaluru on Saturday was after all a condolence meeting to mourn the demise of an era or to celebrate the birth of a newborn. But what came out very clearly from the meeting was the show of solidarity as most of the state cricket association representatives turned up here after being invited by Chennai boss  .

 More than 15 state association officials came for the meeting that began at an unconfirmed hour late on Saturday afternoon and was still in progress until 10 pm.
 
 Ex-BCCI president   is also believed to have attended the meeting. However, the BJP parliamentarian was not to be seen around at the venue of the meeting and members later said he stayed away. Ex-BCCI secretary  , treasurer Anirudh Chaudhary and joint secretary   did attend the meeting.
 
 Contrary to reports of BCCI members meeting to plan a rebel league or refusing to share infrastructure for matches here on, all kinds of knee-jerk reactions were avoided. On the other hand, all the state representatives maintained a stoic silence and refused to be drawn into making a comment.
 
 A senior administrator said: "We've been colleagues for a long time. So, we had to turn up here for plenty of reasons and those reasons needn't be what the media has reported. The country's highest court has brought out an order and nothing can be done about it. It's over."
 
 The representatives' decision to remain silent was in stark contrast with all the talking that most of them had been doing until the Supreme Court judgment was delivered. Post the order, the fear of contempt has been at the top of their minds.
 
 It was separately confirmed that the legal advisors of the BCCI joined the meeting through a teleconference too and members spent the better part of the evening seeking clarifications on a flurry of topics.
 
 Ever since Srinivasan's plan to call for this meeting had become public, there had been reports of ex-BCCI members planning a rebel league. "Marna hai kya? (it's suicidal) is how an official reacted when asked about it.
 
 The state representatives had clearly flown to Bengaluru for this meeting hoping that Srinivasan would show them the way forward. Given the former BCCI and ICC's chief's experience as an administrator and the respect he commands from the country's cricket fraternity, most officials arrived here only to listen to what he had to say. Srinivasan had lent his support to Thakur in his tussle with the International Cricket Council (ICC) and the long legal battle that was fought in the Supreme Court. The Tamil Nadu bigwig is learned to have said in his circles long ago that "we may have our differences within the BCCI but if an outsider thinks of harming the Board's interests then I will always support the board members, be it Thakur or anyone else."
 
 By the time the meeting ended, one thing became absolutely clear: These members will not be taking any step in a hurry but instead play the wait and watch game.
 
