NOIDA: Come Monday, getting a driving   or   will pinch your pocket like never before. The entire paper work related to your vehicle is set to get dearer in Noida after the Union government effected a five-fold increase in fee charged under different heads by the road transport authority.

 Gautam Budh Nagar, which is already offering services like smart card licence, registration of imported vehicles etc will see a huge hike in charges for these vehicles.
 
 As per the revised charges, for getting a learner’s licence, one needs to shell out Rs 200. For a permanent one, Rs 500 is the new fee. In total, an applicant can get a   licence made for Rs 900 including the learning licence charge (Rs 150), online test (Rs 50), practical test (Rs 300), permanent licence (Rs 200) and smart card (Rs 200 extra). 
 
 Earlier, one could get a learner’s licence for Rs 60 in the district. Now it has come to Rs 200.
 
 However, if one needs to get a unified licence for both one’s car and a bike, it will cost nearly Rs 1,000.
 
 Moreover, if one fails the online driving test, one will have to shell out Rs 50 for each subsequent attempt to pass the test.Similarly, for international vehicles, fee for issuing permit has been doubled from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000. 
 
 There has been a five time increase in the charges for registration of vehicles as well. While the registration of a bike will cost Rs 300, the applicant will have to pay Rs 600 for registering his car. Earlier, a bike’s registration cost only Rs 60, while for car it was Rs 200.
 
 For commercial taxis, the registration charges will be Rs 1,000 while for a mini-bus, the charges are Rs 1,000. For registration of trucks and buses, the charge is Rs 1,500. Rs 200 will be charged extra if the registration certificate (RC) is in a smart-card form.
 
  said that the new rates will be effective by Monday after a software update in the transport department.“We received the order on Friday afternoon. The software has old rates fed into it as of now. We will ensure it gets fixed by Tuesday. Till then, we will manually collect the remaining charges,” she said.
 
 
