NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: There is still no clarity about who will be selected chief minister of UP on Saturday, when an announcement is scheduled to be made in Lucknow.

  
  
 
 However, the countdown for the closure of all mechanised abattoirs in the state has begun. The name of the CM-designate is to be announced at a meeting of the BJP legislature party in Lucknow and the nominee of PM Narendra Modi and BJP chief   will be sworn in as CM of the politically pivotal state on Sunday.
 
 This will clear the way for promulgation of an ordinance to shut down mechanised abattoirs by midnight. A ban on mechanised abattoirs was the 
  and Shah consistently referred to it in his stump speeches, promising that the saffron regime would promulgate an ordinance by midnight of the day it assumed office.
 
 The BJP parliamentary board had, on Sunday, empowered Shah to select the chief minister of UP, an authorisation he is set to use in concert with Modi.
 
 Even as the hours ticked by to the meeting of the BJP legislature party on Saturday, party chief Amit Shah refused to lift the suspense over who might get the nod for  . Party circles felt the choice for the coveted job may have come down to 
  and state party chief  , but sources said a final decision had not been taken and the possibility of an “out-of box” choice could not be ruled out. 
 
 The selection of 
  as CM of neighbouring Uttarakhand doused the talk of Union home minister Rajnath Singh going to Lucknow. Speculation that Singh, a former UP CM, might go back to his old job in Lucknow lingered despite his strenuous denials. 
 
 The choice of a fellow Thakur for heading Uttarakhand on Sunday squelched it. Telecom minister Manoj Sinha, who also holds the charge of minister of state for railways, was being regarded as a strong possibility because of his long stint in the organisation, reputation for probity, people skills and administrative experience. The performance of the Ghazipur MP as telecom minister has come in for praise from peers and seniors, while he is seen as a stabilising force in Rail Bhavan. Maurya’s candidature appeared to have suffered a blow following Shah’s comment on Friday that the state unit chief will have a role to play in deciding who gets to head the state. 
 
 The name of  , the hardliner MP from Gorakhpur, continued being mentioned, with some feeling his appointment as CM would amplify the “Hindutva” message that defined the party’s successful Uttar Pradesh campaign. The name of Swatantra Dev Singh, an old RSS hand, was also doing the rounds.
 
 
 
