Nagpur: Ngpur Bench of Bombay High Court on Friday took suo motu cognisance of Rs125 crore UCO bank fraud and issued notices to respondents, including Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI) head office in Delhi and its branch office in Nagpur. Reserve Bank of India’s chief general manager in Delhi and Wardha Police Station are other respondents in the case.  A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Rohit Deo directed all respondents to reply within two weeks. Rajnish Vyas has been appointed as amicus curiae in the case. He contended that UCO Bank fraud was systematic and organized crime committed by its officers along through illegal transactions where they floated a scheme for financing farmers for cultivation of sugar cane through tie-up arrangements with sugar mills. The amicus brought to fore large-scale misappropriation of public money by the bank officers in connivance with the directors of [private companies. He also pointed about adamant attitude of senior bank officers in not cooperating with the investigating agency. The premier agency is further accused of not showing interest in investigating the crime and exercising its powers. Vyas prayed for directives to RBI to call upon all bank and finance institutions to file a suo motu complaint on financial frauds by framing appropriate guidelines and strictly monitor the same. He also demanded CBI to explore the possibility of invocation of Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act, in the financial crimes. He insisted on to look into the grievance made by CBI city office regarding non-cooperation of superior officers of UCO Bank and to take stringent action against them. As per the petition, the UCO Bank floated a scheme under which loans could be granted to the farmers/joint liability groups through industry/mill owner. They’re required to prepare the list of farmers, who would be cultivating crops (Soyabean) and they would be guarantors for repayment. The loan amount would be disbursed in the account of farmers/joint liability groups. GS Oil Company allegedly acting in connivance with the officers of UCO Bank in Hinganghat and Wardha disbursed loan amount of Rs25 crore, though the list of farmers submitted was fraud and fabricated. After amount was deposited in farmers’ account, it was immediately transferred in the accounts of GS Oils, which clearly shows that it was GS Oil who was ultimate beneficiary. The CBI then registered offences under Sections 420, 468, 471, 34 of IPC Section 13 (1) and 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act.