KANNUR: The agitation by the local residents of Keezhattur, near   in Kannur district, against the National Highway bypass through their   fields, has been called off following the assurance that the notification for the bypass will not be issued now, and a decision will be taken only after a detailed study.

 The decision to defer the notification was taken in a meeting held by PWD minister   with the representatives of the local residents, who are on agitation under the banner 'Vayalkilikal', in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday.
 
 Following this activist   gave lemon water to action committee member Manoharan C, who was on fast, on Friday morning.
 
 As per the decision taken in the meeting with the minister, a team comprising people's representatives, senior officials of the   (NHAI), as also the officials including the district collector would visit the place and evaluate the situation.
 
 The possibility of alternative alignment without affecting paddy fields and wetlands will also be explored, said the minister, who added that any decision in this connection would be taken with consensus only.
 
 At the same time, though the agitation has been withdrawn, the campaign against the bypass would continue, said the action committee. If the government and the NHAI go ahead with the same alignment later, the agitation would be intensified, they warned.
 
 Though the plan was to widen the highway through Thaliparamba, there was concern about evicting many people, following which the new alignment was considered according to the NHAI. Though the CPM district leaders supported the new alignment, the residents of Keezhattur, a CPM party village, opposed this and launched the agitation, defying the party diktats.
 
 They said the 4.5 kilometer stretch of the bypass would completely destroy the 100 metre wide paddy fields and it will affect the water resources as well as ecology there. When the agitation got the support of the parties including the BJP and the CPI, causing embarrassment to the CPM leadership, it was decided to hold talks with the agitators, which ultimately led to the decision to put on hold the bypass notification, and study the issue seriously.
 
