LUCKNOW: As the new   of the   begins on Monday, the university   is continuing to show the   of 2016. Moreover, most of the departments have failed to update the timetable for the new session and names of   have not been replaced with those of the present faculty .

 At a meeting on Friday , all deans and heads were directed to upload the timetable along with the name of teachers of the respective subjects. In the faculty of Commerce, only business administration department has updated the timetable while the Applied Economics department is still showing the old timetable and Commerce department's timetable is missing from the website. Similarly , law faculty timetable is unavailable while in the arts faculty , timetable of Psychology , Political Science, Arabic and many other departments is not available online. Requesting anonymity, an official of the university said no teacher has been put in charge of the website so it is not updated timely and regularly , hence the anomalies.
 
 “It's Sunday and I could not find out what time classes will commence when I go to the university , as information is not available online,“ said Srishti Sharma, BCom first-year student, adding that she would reach early morning on Monday so that she doesn't miss a class on her first day at the university.
 
 Information about the teachers of the respective department needs to be upda ted too as the website shows names of teachers who have retired. Professors U D Mishra, Mringank Shekhar, D D Awasthi, M Verma, R C Tripathi from Physics, Political Science, Geology , Education and Hindi departments, respectively have retired but the university website continues to show their name.
 
 On the anti-ragging page, fresh set of instructions issued by the proctor on Saturday have not been uploaded and email ID of the anti-ragging cell is old. “The LU website is not helpful at all. Most of the contacts available are outdated and information about timetable and curriculum is missing,“ said BA student Nandita Rastogi.
 
 
