PANAJI: A gram sabha of   panchayat witnessed an uproar over a few construction projects and Regional Plan 2021, as the members grilled the panchayat authorities for alleged irregularities in approving development plans for the village.

 The largely-attended meeting was chaired by sarpanch Sobhan Borkar, while deputy sarpanch Chandrakant Kunkolkar answered queries raised by villagers.
 
 The issue of a project near a burial ground which has encroached into a crematorium ground generated much heat and debate at the gram sabha. Deputy sarpanch Chandrakant Kunkolkar blamed the previous sarpanch for approving it without any transparency. But Tukaram Kunkolkar, a member, produced documents to prove that he was part of the decision.
 
 The villagers demanded that the century-old crematorium be provided proper access, while it was resolved unanimously to revoke the builder’s construction licence.
 
 Village-level committee chairman Paul Fernandes informed members that Kunkolkar, who, was the then sarpanch had forwarded the plan to   for notification without consulting the committee.
 
 Fernandes alleged that due to this fraud in approving a different RP 2021 plan, housing projects which are encroaching into public utility spaces, wells and crematorium are being taken up. The members, especially Tukaram Kunkolkar demanded resignation of the panchayat leaders involved in this issue.
 
 The members were also agitated over the alleged issuance of approval for occupancy to a 160-room hotel project. As  , a member alleged it had been issued during election code of conduct. TCP and health department had also not issued due approvals. The panchayat authorities were silent over the issue.
 
 Another member, Pravin Chopdekar pointed out that the work of hotel project was in progress or incomplete. The members upset over the alleged irregularity, demanded unanimously that an inspection at the project site should be conducted immediately after the meeting itself. But Kunkolkar did not show any interest in doing so, but assured that he would inform the members when it is scheduled. The meeting witnessed an uproar over the laying of a telecommunication cable and mobile tower illegally in the village.
 
 
