GUWAHATI: The special NIA ( ) court here on Monday deferred pronouncing judgement in the Rs 1000 crore NC Hills Autonomous Council (NCHAC) scam case till May 22. The   had taken over the case from state police in 2009 to investigate a scam in which crores of rupees of government funds were siphoned to   in   

 The NIA had charge-sheeted at least 15 people in the case, including militant-turned-politician Jewel Garlosa, former chairperson of disbanded militant outfit Dima Halem Daogah, and its former commander-in-chief Niranjan Hojai. However, Garlosa and Hojai were released to initiate peace talks with the government in 2011. Currently they are active politicians for the ruling BJP and elected members of the NCHAC.
 
 Sources in NIA said the court has asked them to clarify on a few technicalities related to the case. "The court wanted clarification regarding a few financial matters related to the council and on a telephonic conversation between the militant outfit leaders and council members earlier placed as evidence."
 
 NIA, for which this was the first ever case, said during the investigation it has found solid evidence revealing that huge amount of public money meant for social welfare and public health were transferred to the then militant leaders Hojai and Garlosa through an illegal hawala racket in West Bengal.
 
 In the charge-sheet, the premier investigating agency revealed, "As per the conspiracy hatched in 2008, accused Mohit Hojai took over the charge of NCHAC and began siphoning government funds meant for the welfare of school kids, physically handicaps and other government projects." The probe found that in 2009 alone, at least Rs 13 crore released for social welfare department and Rs 3 crore for public health were siphoned to DHD (J) outfit leaders who were hiding in Nepal.
 
 Ambitious projects like East West Corridor and BG conversion project connecting Lumding and Silchar suffered heavily due to the rampant corruption, NIA alleged.
 
 After Mohit Hojai, then chief executive member of NCHAC, and RH Khan, then deputy director of the social welfare department, were arrested, investigation revealed that they siphoned money to procure sophisticated arms from Nepal, Thailand and Malaysia for militancy purpose. 
 
 
