BURDWAN/MIDNAPORE/BEHRAMPORE/ARAMBAG: With water levels subsiding across six flood-hit districts of the state, the administration’s focus has now shifted to a post-deluge action plan. The primary aim will be to prevent outbreak of disease in the affected areas. 

 In Burdwan, people in relief camps like the one at Katwa are in panic over   spreading after a foul stench from the decreased water level rent the air. The worst-hit areas of Ghatal and Daspur in West Midnapore and Khanakul II Block in Hooghly, though, remained inundated but officials and locals alike said water was receding in these areas too.
 
 Outlining the action plan at Nabanna, officials said the immediate necessity was to supply clean drinking water and medical kits in the flood-hit areas. Work on disinfecting tubewells and other water sources, including ponds, is on in full swing. Besides, pouches of drinking water and halogen tablets are being distributed in the affected blocks by teams drawn from the public health engineering (PHE) and health departments. The PHE men deployed pumpsets to clear stagnant water and spread bleaching powder. Other relief material and baby food are also being distributed with the flood-hit areas now accessible with receding water levels. In the still inundated areas, relief teams are using speedboats to deliver medicines and water pouches to people.
 
 Water and medicines apart, officials have drawn up a more elaborate medium-term plan to rebuild houses damaged in floods. Though water has receded in their areas, many in the flood-hit areas had no option but to remain in relief camps till the administrations in their districts remake their homes. In Arambag, some 78 families remain in a relief camp, with Hooghly district magistrate Sanjay bansal declaring that work on rebuilding their damaged homes would begin Tuesday.
 
 Homes apart, repairing breaches in embankments is a key part of the action plan. Breached embankments that need immediate repair are in Mahadevpur, Dhulian and Khodabandhapur in Murshidabad’s Farakka area. 
 
 With floods inundating agricultural fields damaging paddy and other crops, officials at Nabanna said seeds too would be distributed to farmers whose fields had been submerged.
 
