Nagpur: Four months after the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) started segregation of dry and wet garbage on World Environment Day (June 5), it has achieved only 16.27% success till October 2. Against the generation of 1,150-1,200 metric tonne garbage daily in the city, NMC’s health department, through private firm Kanak Resources Management Limited, is collecting only 199.63 metric tonne of segregated waste. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal admitted so far the NMC has achieved 15 to 20% of segregation of waste at source target in the city. “Presently we are focusing on awareness about segregation of waste at source,” he claimed. NMC has also tied up with city-based NGOs like Green Vigil Foundation, Centre For Sustainable Development (CSD) etc and they too have launched awareness programmes in many parts of the city. Mudgal hopes to achieve 33% of segregation of waste by December-end. To a query, he pointed out the NMC has already initiated the process to acquire dustbins and once these are distributed, the NMC will launch segregation of waste in entire city. Data procured from NMC’s health department shows that Satranjipura zone tops among the 10 zones in term of segregation of waste. The zone has started segregating around 20.16 MT garbage on an average out of 98MT garbage it generates daily. It is followed by Dharampeth zone that has started segregation of 19.3MT garbage out of the total 116MT, while Dhantoli zone has segregated 19.32MT of 94MT garbage produced daily. As per data, Laxmi Nagar zone is segregating 32.65MT garbage, Hanuman Nagar 16.79MT, Nehru Nagar 17.76MT, Gandhibagh 19.13MT, Lakadganj 20.16MT, Ashi Nagar 14.52MT and Mangalwari 19.19MT per day. So far, NMC has managed to start pilot work in 50 localities in 10 zones, though Kanak has prepared 95% trolley rickshaws of the 628 and 90 of the 136 vehicles by dividing the loading area into two separate chambers for dry and wet garbage. Despite this, TOI found that not only residents but also the garbage lifters and sanitary workers continue with the old system of dumping dry waste and wet waste together. Even NGOs expressed dissatisfaction over the progress on ground zero. “For the last five months, Green Vigil Foundation (GVF) has been extensively reaching out to citizens for encouraging segregation of waste at source. What we are doing is a slow process and it will take years to yield 100% result,” said co-founder of GVF Kaustav Chatterjee. The GVF observed that the educated class of Nagpur is fully aware of the concept of segregation of waste at source, but they are facing it difficult to implement. Even if the waste is segregated at flat schemes, the sanitary worker hired by the flat scheme carries segregated waste and dumps it in a common dustbin, which does not have separate chambers for dry and wet waste. “For economically backward citizens, purchasing two dustbins with colour code seems difficult. Moreover, there is no space for keeping these dustbins inside their houses, especially in slums. Unfortunately, there is huge confusion among citizens as to whether NMC will supply the bins or citizens need to buy it. The GVF members have also faced queries regarding the entire process. Many citizens say they do not need compost, so why should they be involved in the process,” Chatterjee said. “Unless NMC commissions solid waste treatment plant for treating non-biodegradable waste, it is really difficult to convince citizens about their duties regarding segregation of waste at source,” he pointed out while sharing experiences of the awareness programmes of the GVF.