It’s the beginning of a new year, but little has changed on Indian television. While there’s a constant outcry against the regressive content on our daily soaps, the fact that 'daayans' and 'naagins' fetch high ratings make them a favourite with producers. Turns out, along with a certain section of viewers, even actors are aching for a change -- be it in terms of content or the working environment. BT spoke to some of small screen’s most prominent faces about the improvements they would like to see in 2017. Read on...

 
 
 Lesser working hours will help us function better. Long working hours affect your health. This may sound hypothetical, but I love foreign shows like ' ', 'Game of Thrones', 'F.R.I.E.N.D.S'. and 'Sherlock' -- our industry should also have such content and the audience’s acceptance for it should also grow. Also, we need finite shows. It not only allows writers to come up with better scripts, but also gives producers the time to prepare for their next project. The best part is, actors can also take a break and recharge their creativity.
 
 
 
 
 The mindset of large sections of our viewers has to change --- otherwise, we will keep seeing the same thing again and again. Since I entered television with shows like   and  , we’ve only regressed in terms of content. We need strong storytelling and better content, which is rare. I have noticed that the content is either too intelligent or very massy. We need to strike a balance.
 
 
 
 
 TV sets should be in or around Mumbai, as daily travelling to places like Naigaon takes a toll. Also, the importance of an actor, writer or producer should not be solely judged by the weekly ratings. Realistic content and lesser drama are also desirable. 
 
 
 
 Our industry needs more interesting concepts -- content should be experimental, but keeping the masses in mind. We are also human and need holidays. A weekly off for the entire team will be perfect. 
 
 
 
 Most of our soaps are female-centric. I feel that male actors get sidelined in the process; so, some male-centric shows would be a breath of fresh air. Also, we can’t air regressive content that takes the audiences back by 50 years. Reducing the 90-day wait for payment would be ideal.
 
 
 
 We need finite shows, with maximum 125 episodes. These days, all soaps look the same shows and that has to change. Shooting schedules will be less hectic if we create a bank of episodes. 
 
 
 TV shows can’t propagate black magic, snake worship (even if it works), age-old customs and blind faith. Content can’t be illogical -- every show can’t have a daayan, scorpion or snake just to keep the ratings high. Another grouse is longer working hours. Across the world, TV actors work only for 8 hours, but in India, it is 12 hours. We don’t even get a weekly off. Also, makers should focus on seasonal shows as they tend to get repetitive. 
 
 
 
 A medical emergency can occur anytime. So, there should be a doctor in attendance in every studio. Forget docs, most sets lack even first-aid boxes; it’s high time we stopped taking such basics for granted. In terms of content, there should be fresher love stories -- I think the audience enjoys them. Also, it’s tiring to wait for 90 days for your payment. 
 
 
 
 We shoot for 12 hours every day, and this is minus the time spent travelling to work. Even the labour law stipulates that people should work for only eight hours in a day. I also feel there should be better sanitation on the sets. Quality food is also important. How long can we get food from home?
 
  
  
 
