BHUBANESWAR: While Maoists threat is forcing many villagers in Malkangiri to consider the boycott of panchayat polls, the situation is entirely different in Nuapada district. The area bordering Chhattisgarh is considered to be a Maoist stronghold. But the villagers, rather than live in fear, are gearing up to defy the rebels' vote-ban diktat. 

 It was in 2009 that Nuapada first witnessed rebel activities. Since then it has been one of the sensitive districts reporting increased Maoist presence in Sunabeda sanctuary area, which has turned into a safe haven for them. 
 
 Official sources said out of 158 booths that have been declared hyper sensitive, around 110 are located in Maoist territory. While the district didn't witness a single candidate withdrawing nominations, the local administration urged villagers to come out and exercise their franchise. 
 
 Nuapada collector   said so far they haven't come across any complaints from villagers or candidates about Maoists issuing threats to them not to campaign or cast votes. 
 
 "We have activated the local intelligence. We are watchful and the polling personnel will be given detailed training on how to conduct themselves while moving with ballot boxes inside the sensitive areas. They have also been given tips on how to ensure their safety," said Alam.
 
 Nuapada currently has one battalion of   ( ) that conducts regular combing operations in Maoist-hit areas. Besides, the collector said, local police have been asked to conduct patrolling on a daily basis so that villagers' confidence is boosted. 
 
 A total of 3,355 candidates are in the poll fray from the district for the ensuing elections. They include ward members, sarpanches, samiti members and zilla parishad members. 
 
 During the 2014 general elections, people from two villages decided not to rely on security forces and came out with bows and arrows for their own defence. 
 
 Sarpanch of Soseng panchayat,  , said: "The situation has now changed. In the last five years we have learnt to dispel the fear of other villagers. I personally convinced them not to get swayed by Maoist ideology. We will cast our votes at any cost."
 
