NEW DELHI: The Special Cell arrested two men and seized 4 kg of   worth Rs 16 crore from them in Uttam Nagar on Tuesday night. The accused, Darbara Singh alias Billa and Sandeep alias Ajay, belong to Punjab. Darbara is a “most wanted” heroin supplier and is an associate of a notorious drug lord, currently lodged in Punjab’s Nabha Jail. 

 Darbara and Sandeep had come to Delhi to deliver a heroin consignment. “A team led by ACP Pankaj Sood and inspector Attar Singh laid a trap following a tip-off and nabbed the accused. An Alto car (bearing Punjab’s registration number) in which they were travelling was impounded,” said Sanjeev Yadav, DCP, special cell.
 
 During interrogation, they revealed that they had procured the contraband from Afghanistan via Pakistan. A courier used to bring them heroin concealed in capsules, which can be swallowed. Besides supplying the drug to Delhi, UP, Punjab and Haryana, the gang used to supply it to England, France, Canada and South Africa through courier companies.
 
 The carriers from Afghanistan, called “drug mules”, would swallow the heroin capsules in small quantities and travel through Pakistan to the Punjab border. Darbara’s men would receive the carriers on the border and extract the capsules from them. They would arrange the drug in different packets and send them to places within and outside India.
 
 Darbara told police that he had earlier made several trips to UP and Delhi-NCR to supply the contraband to middlemen. Once an order was placed, the consignment would be delivered to a designated spot. Then, it would be picked up by a person who would be unaware of the content of the package. 
 
 Darbara said he had been involved in drug trafficking since 1997. “Darbara was involved in eight criminal cases earlier and was arrested in 1998. He was jailed and slapped with a fine of Rs 3 lakh,” added Yadav. In 2015, he jumped parole and went underground. For the past one and a half years, he has been supplying heroin to a dealer and a woman associate in Delhi, cops said.
 
 His wife, Sarabjeet Kaur, was also involved in the trade and has 10 cases registered against her under NDPS Act. She is currently in the Ludhiana jail. During interrogation, Sandeep said that he was paid Rs 10,000 per trip to Delhi. 
 
