HYDERABAD: While most employees in the  , including IPS officers, have been transferred over the last few years, there’s a handful of senior policemen within the Hyderabad police commissionerate who have been curiously exempted from it. Reason? Unknown.

 As an unwritten rule, officers are shifted out once they complete two years in a post. In rare cases, it’s stretched up to three years. But this norm doesn’t seem to apply to those like B Limba Reddy, deputy commissioner of police (Task Force), who has been working at the all-powerful wing for about four-and-half years. He was even given a two-year extension despite attaining superannuation in 2015.
 
 Similarly, K Babu Rao, additional deputy commissioner of police (South Zone), has been holding the post for four years. His subordinates recently felicitated him for his long years of service.
 
 On this odd list are other names such as Ch Sudhakar, assistant commissioner of police (Malakpet), and Manohar, assistant commissioner of police (Begumpet Traffic). Both have completed three years in the same post. Koti Reddy, additional deputy commissioner of police (Task Force), along with another inspector working in the Hyderabad police’s Information Technology cell, may soon become part of this list too. 
 
 Interestingly, these officers are not even associated with specialised wings of the police force, like counter-intelligence or anti-terror, where staffers are often retained for longer periods owing to their expertise.
 
 With these officers in their posts for longer than usual, several other equally deserving candidates have not got the chance to climb up the ladder, say sources in the police department. “Constant assessment of officers is necessary to understand whether the officer holding a post for long is doing any useful work or is there only because of vested interest. Factors like an officer’s capability and interest must be verified,” said former director general of police Swaranjit Sen.
 
 Questions have been raised by officers of the department in the case of Limba Reddy, who joined the Task Force wing of Hyderabad police in late 2012. In June 2016, he and another inspector working under him faced allegations of harassing a youngster in connection with a land dispute complaint. The youth later committed suicide. While family members of the deceased filed a complaint, no case was registered. The inquiry ordered by Hyderabad police commissioner M Mahendar Reddy through   ( ) also never saw the light of the day. 
 
 When asked about his unusually long stint with the Task Force, Limba Reddy said: “I have been working in the same wing, but not in the same position. When I joined, I was additional DCP (South and East Zone). Later I was given the responsibility of North, West and Central Zones and I was made DCP too. So, it is incorrect to say that I am working in the same position.” 
 
 Babu Rao cited an impending promotion as the reason for his prolonged posting. “I would have been transferred a long time ago, but I am due for promotion. That has been cited as reason by senior officers to retain me in the same position instead of shifting me to some other position for a short time. Also, I have complete understanding of local issues and my contacts allow me to take people of both the communities together, managing religious celebrations etc,” he said.
 
 Records show that Rao, all through his career barring a short period wherein he served as inspector in the   and   in Detective Department, has worked in the South Zone. He has never moved to any other commissionerate, rural districts or other specialised wings. 
 
