GHAZIABAD/ NOIDA: Mohit Goel, the Noida-based entrepreneur who had shot to fame last year for offering the cheapest smartphone in the world, worth Rs 251, was arrested in Ghaziabad on Thursday.

 “There were complaints of cheating against Goel. He had taken money from several people under the guise of providing them distribution agencies of his smartphone company   last year. However, he had failed to honour his commitments. We have arrested him and he will be taken to court on Friday,” Ghaziabad SSP Deepak Kumar told TOI.
 
 Goel was arrested after an FIR was registered against him and four others at Sihani Gate police station on Wednesday. According to the police, there are several other complaints of fraud against Ringing Bells, the company that Goel founded but exited from later.
 
 Ringing Bells became an overnight sensation last year when the company launched a scheme where a smartphone would be offered at Rs 251 on the basis of pre-booking. A countrywide response had led the website to crash. TOI had first broken the news of how the company had pre-booked the phones without any manufacturing facility. The Enforcement Directorate had subsequently intervened. Apart from BJP MP  , the Indian Cellular Association had also approached the ministry to investigate the issue. Ringing Bells was forced to return all money collected via online bookings through online payment gateways. Meanwhile, complaints from dealers started emerging as they had deposited advances with the company, sourced from people. The company procured some Taiwan-made phones and distributed them with   branding.
 
 In December 2016, the company made an announcement through a press note that Mohit Goel, the MD of Ringing Bells, has exited the company. “Now, Mr Anmol Goel, who is also one of the founder directors, is looking after the affairs of the company and will take it forward to achieve the goals it has set for itself,” a company spokesperson had said. The company claimed to have delivered nearly 70,000 units of the mobile phone till now. 
 
 The four others named in the FIR are Anmol Goel, Dharna Garg, Ashok Chadha and Sumit Kumar. Anmol Goel is the younger brother of Mohit. Dharna is a friend of Anmol, police said, while Ashok and Sumit are Mohit’s business partners. None of the others has been arrested so far. They have all been charged under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (breach of trust), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (using a forged document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. The case was registered on the basis of a complaint filed by a private entity Ayam Enterprises, which has its office in Nehru Nagar. As per the complaint, Ayam Enterprises had handed over Rs 30 lakh to Ringing Bells. The firm provided phones worth only Rs 14 lakh to Ayam and did not return the rest of the amount.
 
 
 
 
