HYDERABAD: He is more than 70 years old, suffers from partial blindness, kidney failure and often loses consciousness. But Omani national  , is high on aphrodisiacs and was hunting for a child bride in the city even as he's perpetually on dialysis. The Arab is being interrogated in police custody after he was found to be in touch with a tainted qazi, who is on the run after the child-marriage scam was busted last week.

 Abdullah also happens to be an imam of a mosque in   and came to Hyderabad on a medical visa and carries dialysis kits. Police suspect his actual purpose of visit was to marry local girls. When his passport was verified, police found that he had thrice visited the city in the past and married three girls from Kalapather, Shaheen Nagar of Pahadisharif.
 
 Till date, he has married 10 women, including those he wed in Oman. Abdullah's latest visit to Hyderabad is the fourth and he was in search of a girl and was being assisted by middlemen as he is blind.
 
 “Abdullah was very keen to get married. On the passport, his age is mentioned as 65 years, but we suspect he's much older. Currently , investigations are being carried out to moblise evidence, before initiating action,'' deputy commissioner of police (South Zone) V Satyanarayana said.
 
 An FIR at the Falaknuma police station on alleged harassment of a 16-year-old, Rukhsarunnisa, by her 65year-old husband, sheikh Ahmed Khalid Abdullah, helped police bust an international human trafficking racket and led to the arrest of 20 persons, including eight sheikhs and one of the chief qazis of Mumbai. Investigations into the trafficking of  , who is now trapped in Oman, has also exposed the role of her parents.
 
 On the day of lodging the complaint in August, the girl's parents had claimed their daughter was married to the Omani national without their knowledge. Later, her parents were seen in a video shot during the marriage. It was then the parents squealed to police that the brokers had paid them nothing after their daughter flew to Oman. But, police are yet to initiate action against Rukhsarunissa's parents.
 
 
 
 In a new twist to the Rukhsar saga, the teen's husband, Ahmed Khalid Abdullah, made his wife do VoIP calls to her parents and informed that she did not want to return home. Abdullah is reportedly taking his new bride around in plush cars and pampering her. Hyderabad police, however, want to rescue the girl and arrest her husband on rape charge. “Ruksar did a U-turn.Since she is a minor, we will make efforts to rescue her and arrest the Omani national,'' DCP V Satyanarayana told STOI.
 
