LUCKNOW: A couple committed suicide at their Vinay Khand house Gomtinagar on Saturday night. Bodies of Rahul (30) and his wife Shivani (29), the couple who got married two years ago after a love affair, were found suspended from a hook in a bedroom on Sunday morning around 3.45am. 

 Rahul is grandson of   leader Kamla Prasad Singh, a former MP from   district while Shivani's family is from Arjunganj, Lucknow. 
 
 Posted as a clerk at a degree college in Jaunpur, Rahul reached Lucknow on Friday, along with his younger brother Sahil. Shivani, who was at her parents' house, joined them at the Vinay Khand house which was allotted to the family several years ago. The house usually remains vacant and used by the family during their Lucknow visit. 
 
 On Saturday night, Sahil left for Jaunpur by bus. Around 3am, Shivani called him on his cell phone to inform that Rahul had committed suicide by hanging himself. The body was suspended from a hook with a torn bedsheet used for making the noose. Shivani was unable to bring the body down, so she burnt the noose. "It seems that after a while she decided to end her life," said SSP Deepak Kumar. 
 
 Shivani had used the same bedsheet to make another noose which she tied around her neck to hang herself from the same hook.
 
 Shivani's phone was switched off, so Sahil asked his friend Satendra to rush to the house and meanwhile police were also informed. Sahil got off the bus and returned to the city by car. 
 
 Gomtinagar police brought down Shivani's body and sent it along with Rahul's body to the KGMU mortuary. Police found some empty liquor bottles, glasses, playing cards and burnt bedsheets in the house.
 
 "The two loved each other a lot and I don't know what made them take the extreme step," said Sahil alias Shubham about the couple.
 
  Police were trying to find out if anybody visited the couple on Saturday night before the incident and are checking their call records. 
 
 Local residents told police two persons were seen loitering in the colony in a white sedan early on Sunday morning. "But we don't know if they had anything to do with the incident," said Kumar.
 
