Brock Lesnar beat Goldberg for Universal Championship, Randy Orton beat Bray Wyatt for   Championship while Roman Reigns became only the second superstar in nearly three decades to defeat The Undertaker at  .

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Kingslayer delivered on his word and slayed the Game. The brutal non-sanctioned match was dominated by the Triple H and with Stephanie McMahon by his side the Power couple were all over Rollins. But the former Shield and Authority member endured everything that inflicted on his injured knee to finally deliver the Pedigree on The Game himself after the COO of WWE had accidently bumped Stephanie on the table. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fun match with the Florida crowd made no bones about whose side they were on. Bella and Cena endured a whole lot of boos and jeers but managed to stave off the challenge or the lack of it from The Miz and Maryse and sealed the match with a double pinfall. But there was more as Cena popped the big question in the middle of the ring and the duo sealed it with a kiss. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Facing tough odds, Bailey managed to defend her women's championships with a Randy Savage elbow drop on Charlotte. Sasha Banks was eliminated by Charlotte after Sasha Banks hit her head on the exposed steel buckle. Jax was the first to be eliminated after Bailey, Charlotte and Banks tagged together to triple powerbomb Jax and effected the pinfall. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kevin Owens beat his former Best Friend Chris Jericho to win the United States Championship. The rivalry that got personal after Owens attacked Jericho during the festival of friendship seems to have come to end after Owens setup Jericho with the powerbomb on the apron and then followed it up with the pop up powerbomb to seal the title match 
 
 
 
 
 A brutal match that saw Smackdown Live Commissioner Shane McMahon pull out all the stops including the Coast to Coast and The Shooting Star Press. McMahon survived the 'Styles clash', countered a 'Phenomenal Forearm' in to a 'Triangle Choke'. But Styles persevered and won his first Wrestlemania match with the 'Phenomenal Forearm'. 
 
 The 33rd edition of the World Wrestling Entertainment’s show off all shows, Wrestlemania, kicked off in grand style in three matches in during the kickoff show with WWE RAW and 205 Live’s Cruiserweight and Smackdown Live’s Intercontinental Championships on the line along with Wrestlemania exclusive, the Andre the Giant Memorial Battle Royal.
 
 
 
 
 Austin Aries walked in to the Camping World Stadium hot and had the early momentum before the self-proclaimed ‘King of the Cruiserweight’ took control with snap German. ‘The Greatest Man That Ever Lived’ though retaliated with a couple of high flying moves and came close to winning the championship with a 450 splash, but Neville kicked out. Aries went for the last chancery, but a rack in the eyes, which was injured a couple of months back (orbital socket). Neville managed evade the submission move and that allowed Neville to put Aries in place for the Red Arrow and went on to retain his title. 
 
 
 
 
 Big Show and Braun Strowman headlined the field for the Andre the Giant Memorial Battle Royal and both got off to good start throwing WWE superstars over the top rope with ease before the behemoths came face to face. The last year’s winner, Big Show was eliminated by Strowman, but the ‘Monster among men’ was ambushed by the remaining contenders and was eliminated. Most notable superstar who became one of the final four contestants remaining in the match was NXT’s Killian Dain, a 320 pound Giant who held his own before being eliminated by Mojo Rawley. Jinder Mahal made it to the final two after assaulting Rawley in front of his supporter, New England Patriots’ tight end Rob Gronkowski. Mahal disrespected the Big Gronk and he made his way to the ring and hit Mahal hard before Rawley eliminated the Mahal to become the third Andre the Giant Memorial Battle Royal winner 
 
 
 
 
 Baron Corbin dominated the proceeding in the 10-minute long bout but a timely counter by Ambrose on Corbins’s Signature move, ‘The End of Days’ in to the ‘Dirty Deeds’ meant the Lunatic Fringe retained his title 
 
 
 
