LUCKNOW: The unexpected elevation of the saffron parivar’s Hindutva face Yogi Aditya Nath alias Ajay Singh, who is five times BJP MP from Gorakhpur to the post of the chief minister of politically the most powerful state is being seen within the BJP circles as a challenge to Union minister for Home  .

 In the hectic race for the post, initially, Rajnath Singh was tipped to be the chief minister of the state but he declined to accept two deputy chief ministers with him and wanted no intervention of the PMO in his day-to-day functioning. Modi and Shah took this otherwise and finally, with the support of RSS, picked up Yogi, who was nowhere in the race till Saturday morning.
 
 Yogi and Rajnath are both from the Thakur community and are seen as rivals in state politics, though Rajnath enjoys national image and reputation. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president Amit Shah had not been very comfortable with the powerful Rajput leader Rajnath Singh from Uttar Pradesh, who like former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpeyee also pursued the middle path of the party’s mainstream and refused to be ideological extremist or follow the hardcore Hindutva line. Also, after Modi, it is only Rajnath who enjoys mass support and appeal unlike the other second-rung ministers in the Central cabinet.
 
 During the election campaign, not only did Rajnath invoke Atal’s name in almost every public meeting, he reassured Muslims of protection and progress. In parliament too, he recently praised generously the father of terror suspect slain in Lucknow and saluted his declaration of refusal to receive the body of his “anti-national” son.
 
 The Modi- Shah combine had been looking for a Rajput face to be project as state leader and spotted potential in Yogi as an alternative to Rajnath. The RSS-BJP combine wanted Yogi to come out of the eastern UP territory for his statewide projection and he was first given task of campaigning for the BJP in the 2014 byelections held after the 2014 parliament polls. The way then ruling Samajwadi Party won 11 out of 14 by elections, it was feared that Yogi might not be groomed as a full-fledged politician as was deeply rooted in the Hindutva ideology.
 
 But through his extremist outfit Hindu Yuva Vahini, Yogi continued to extend his footprints all over the state and undertook extensive tours, delivering inflammatory speeches and gained popularity. In the recently concluded assembly elections too, Yogi was among the star campaigners.
 
