AHMEDABAD:   lambasted municipalities in the state for nepotism and favouritism in giving jobs, and highlighted their “methodsmodusmischiefs“ of getting their jobs regularized through courts.
To put a curb on this scam, Justice Paresh Upadhyay ordered the state government to create a mechanism so that the process of law is not abused by municipalities that help temporary or part-time employees win legal battle to regularize their jobs.
 
 The director of municipalities has been directed to devise a proceduremechanism to stop the malpractice. The court has also roped in the labour commissioner and the assistant labour commissioner asking them to look after disputes of workers in municipalities, particularly when the powerful people try to circumvent the norms by resorting to legal proceedings.
 
 The case before the HC pertained to   municipality , where the civic body had a job dispute with one worker. When the issue reached the labour court, it ordered the municipality to regularize the job of all 369 contractual workers belonging to a workers' union who had completed one year on the job. The HC quashed the order of regularization on the ground that the order was not sustainable.
 
 The HC did not stop here.The judge cited various other such cases and said that there is no direct control of the state government in such matters. It is very common that kith and kin of people in power get preference at the time of initial appointment. When the political dispensation changes in the civic body , different methods are resorted for either victimization or favouritism.
 
 HC highlighted the modus operandi. To favour a newly recruited junior, the civic body would terminate him “only for show“ even by an oral order. The employee would then approach the court, where the municipality will reveal that it has settled the dispute outside the court and he may be reinstated. Efforts would be made for a court order to regularize the person's job.To fortify this ill-design, the municipality would challenge the job regularization before the HC, being very sure that, it would be rejected on the ground that the labour court's order was based on consent of both the parties. “The effect thereof would be that the ill-design would be projected as the direction of the high court,“ the order reads.
 
 The HC also noticed that for those employees, who fall out of favour, the municipality would keep on raising objections at every stage against them.
 
 The HC also criticized municipalities for hiring different lawyers for different service disputes thereby ensuring income for their favourite lawyers. Sometimes, it is part of the strategy and connivance, the court said adding, “The right hand would not know what the left hand has done.“
 
