BHOPAL: State Congress president Arun Yadav on Friday shot a letter to Prime Minister  , apprising him of the alleged   by the mafia from the Narmada river.

 While the state government was celebrating   on Friday, the Congress, in its letter to the PM, levelled serious accusations, linking the chief minister’s relatives to illegal sand mining racket. “Illegal sand mafia is operating fearlessly in the state under political patronage,” said Yadav’s letter to the PM. “An honest IPS officer was murdered while they tried to run over a collector with a heavy vehicle. Police and mining officials have been at the receiving end over the years. The mafia has constructed a temporary bridge in Joshipur, Jarrapur area of Sehore to transport illegally mined sand from the Narmada.” His letter mentioned by name some of the chief minister’s relatives, who he claimed, were involved in illegal sand mining. “Soon after the chief minister announced that there will be no illegal sand mining from the Narmada on January 29 mining officer Rashmi Pandey caught trucks and dumpers overloaded with illegally mined sand,” reads the letter. “These dumpers are registered in the name of  , son of Narendra Singh Chouhan, the chief minister’s younger brother,” the letter alleged.
 
 The Congress’ letter to Modi is supported by documents including the registration copies of overloaded dumpers seized on January 29 and newspaper clippings. Congress said that the PM, who has accepted state government’s invitation to attend the concluding ceremony of Narmada Seva Yatra, should get an investigation done into the accusations before participating in the event. Speaking to reporters, Yadav said, “The Prime Minister had promised the nation with “naa khaunga, naa khaane dunga” and yet it is his party’s chief minister whose family has been exploiting illegal sand mining in the Narmada for the last 11 years. “While we have written to the Prime Minister and expect him to take appropriate action, the Congress demands a clarification from the state government over seizure of four dumpers transporting illegally mined sand from the chief minister’s constituency last month,” he said. “The Congress, meanwhile, will take-out a protest rally in chief minister’s constituency in Budhni and will stage a protest in front of the state assembly on February 22.”
 
