MEERUT: A day after   in Saharanpur, 12 FIRs have been filed while 24 have been taken into police custody. The state government also transferred two additional superintendents of police who have been attached to Lucknow headquarters.

    member PL Punia, who is former chairman of National Commission of Scheduled Castes, was reportedly denied permission to visit the violence-hit areas owing to “sensitive environment”. However, he eventually visited the city and interacted with the SSP and DM to take stock of the situation.
 
  Speaking with TOI, Punia, said, “I went to Saharanpur on Wednesday. The situation is really bad in the violence-affected Doodhli and Shabbirpur villages, but I was not allowed by the DM and SSP to go there. I strongly recommend a judicial inquiry into the series of violence that rocked Saharanpur in the past 20 days. If I single out one case of the death of a man from the Thakur community in Shabbirpur village, administration had been stating that he died in stone-pelting as a he was hit in the head. The post-mortem report, on the contrary, said it was a death by suffocation. Is there an attempt to blame Dalits for the death?”
 
  Saharanpur SSP   said, “We have filed a dozen FIRs and have detained 24 persons. We are in the process of identifying trouble-mongers through newspaper clippings, videos, CCTV footages, etc. Only those actually involved in the violence will be arrested. We assure everyone that no innocent will be held.”
 
  Meanwhile, the district administration held a meeting involving members across communities and party lines with an aim to bring them on one table and “mitigate” trust deficit among various groups.
 
  District magistrate Nagender Prasad Singh told TOI, “What we have gathered from the past three incidents in Saharanpur is that there is a great amount of trust deficit among various communities. This is a social problem that opportunists take advantage of. We have made plans to reach out to people at the village level and mitigate that trust deficit and this is the first step in that direction. The response was very good and we are confident that things will improve in future.”
 
  On Tuesday, the district had witnessed another large-scale violence, third time in the past 20 days, when Dalit protesters went on a violent spree after the police tried to disperse a crowd of agitators who did not have official permission for the demonstration in a city park. Senior district and police officials had to take refuge in a residential colony after a mob attacked them and torched many vehicles, authorities said. Around 20 vehicles, including a bus, cars and several two-wheelers were set on fire. The mob also torched a police outpost and a police van.
 
  On May 5, a 35-year-old man was killed and 16 persons injured seriously while dozens of houses were torched after clashes broke out between members of the Thakur and Dalit communities in Shabbirpur village of the district following a dispute over taking out a procession in memory of Rajput ruler  . Earlier on April 20, members of two communities had clashed at Sadak Doodhli over a procession in memory of B  
