Udhagamandalam/Chennai: Two decades after his mentor and   inaugurated the popular flower show at the Government Botanical Garden in Ooty, chief minister   gets ready for his turn. Palaniswami will open the 121st edition of the popular event on May 19, while Governor C Vidyasagar Rao will participate in the valedictory function on May 21. The show is considered the main attraction among the events of the   

 “Palaniswami is keen on attending the event with his family,” said an official source. The last ‘floral carnival’ inaugurated by a chief minister was in May 1995. Jayalalithaa inaugurated the famous Government Rose Garden, the largest in the country, in commemoration of the 100th edition of the ‘flower show.’ Jayalalithaa took personal interest in developing the largest rose garden, and one of the varieties has been named after her.
 
 “Special arrangements of floral structures and miniatures will be an added attraction,” horticulture joint director N Mani said. The carnival will get to see a display of 15,000 flower pots in the gallery. Tulips and disbuds (large chrysanthemums) imported from Holland will also be displayed. A mega structure of the Mahabalipuram shore temple made of carnations and roses will be the major attraction. An arch depicting the emblem and 15 floral arches, besides a replica of hornbill made of carnation will be an added feature. 
 
 The department has also arranged a selfie spot made of carnation roses and liliums. In a first, a big flower pot will be displayed on the main lawn. “About 650 prizes will be distributed to winners of the garden competition and the show day flower competitions. Stalls will be put up by the Raj Bhavan, the Madras Regimental Centre, the Defence Services Staff College, Wellington, the Horticultural Research Institute, banks and colleges. Various cultural programmes have been planned during the three-day event,” an official said. 
 
 The inaugural event scheduled to take place at 9pm on Friday will see the participation of agriculture minister R Duraikannu, municipal administration minister S P Velumani, agriculture secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi, and horticulture commissioner Archana Patnaik. The governor is expected to arrive in Ooty on May 20 for the valedictory function the next day. Agriculture minister R Duraikannu will participate in the event scheduled to take place at 3.45pm.
 
 
