NOIDA: It’s been over four years since the UIDAI announced that the   can be used as an “age-proof”document. But even now, the Aadhaar card is accepted only as an address-proof document in government offices.

 The Gautam Budh Nagar   department is a case in point where the Aadhaar card is still being used for address verification only. 
 
 Most banks also accept the Aadhaar card as address-proof and not as a valid age-proof document.
 
 Earlier, the Aadhaar cards did not have the date of birth (DOB) on the card but featured only the year of birth (YOB) of the card-holder. According to officials, the card still cannot be considered authentic proof of the card-holder’s age, which has to be cross-checked with the Class X marksheet.
 
 However, applicants for learner’s licence and those who want licence renewal in   have said that since the date of birth is given on the new Aadhaar cards being issued since 2013, it should also be considered adequate for  .
 
 Shweta Joshi, a resident of Noida’s Sector 29, told TOI that the whole idea behind giving a unique identification number was to make it available everywhere as an identity proof. “I think since it’s a verified document, it should be used as a valid age-proof document too,” said Joshi, who had to produce separate documents for age-proof and address-proof when she got her car licence renewed at the RTO office in Sector 32.
 
 A K Singh, district lead bank manager, said that although opening bank accounts didn’t need age proof, opening of a student account required one. “We need an age proof for opening a student’s account. A person as young as 10 years of age can get a student’s account opened. For that, we take his school ID card,” he said, adding that the Aadhaar was not considered an “authentic age-proof” because of the procedure involved in its making.
 
 “When an Aadhaar card is made, the clerk is prone to making typo errors and the applicant might also indevertently go wrong while giving information,” Singh said.
 
 Vishnu Dutt Mishra, regional inspector of the transport department, said that in many instances there were discrepancies between the entries of an applicant’s date of birth in the Aadhaar card and the Xth class marksheet.
 
 ARTO Rachna Yaduvanshi said that the transport department cross-checks the applicant’s age with the Class X marksheet.
 
 
