MANGALURU: For these ‘students’ who have enrolled themselves in the Master of Arts ( ) course at Evening College, Hampankatta, age is a just a number when it comes to learning.

 Meet Fr Michael Santhmayor and B Devadas Pai, students of the maiden batch of Konkani MA course that commenced in the 2016-17 academic year.
 
 Fr Michael, 52, principal of Milagres College, Mangaluru, and Devadas, 58, registrar of Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy, turn students as the sun sets, sitting in class and listening to lectures. “It feels great, though sometimes my work and other activities do not permit me to go to class, but I make sure that I learn something new every day,” says Devadas Pai adding that he is attending class as a student after a break of 36 years.
 
 “I’ll obtain another PG degree by the time I retire from government service,” quickly adds Devadas, who holds a PhD in education from the University of Mysore and is a Group ‘B’ gazetted officer.
 
 Sharing his class experiences, Devadas says that he never studied Konkani as a school or college student. “All I know is that Konkani is my mother tongue and I can grasp the lesson.”
 
 For Fr Michael, attending class is like a sudden transition every day. “Till evening I take up classes at Milagres College, that include Konkani. There are other responsibilities as principal of the institution, but in the evening, I turn into a normal student. It is challenging, and I love it,” he said, adding that it’s been 24 years since he has attended regular classes.
 
 What made them take up MA Konkani? The answer is love for Konkani. “Because of the course, I had the privilege of presenting papers at many seminars recently,” says Devadas. Fr Michael says that he is chairman of the Board of Studies, Konkani Language, for an undergraduate course at  . “The degree in Konkani gives credibility to my post and also helps continue the legacy of the language,” he said.
 
 They are the senior-most students to attend classes on a regular basis.
 
 
