GHAZIABAD: Prince alias Rajkumar, the   of a 29-year-old businessman from Punjab, Aman Singh Dhillon, over a   in Vasundhara on April 30, was arrested by the   on Thursday. A .32-bore pistol allegedly used by Prince (42) in the crime has also been recovered from him.

 Prince, a property dealer having his office near Alpha Towers of Vasundhara, was arrested following a tip-off by an informer. His accomplice, Sanjeev, had been arrested a day after the   while their Honda City had already been seized by cops. The two were drunk when they shot dead Aman during an altercation that broke out over car parking in front of an eatery in Sector 4C of Vasundhara. According to the police, Prince is from Sahibabad village while Sanjeev is originally from Meerut. During interrogation following his arrest, Prince has told cops that he had fired two rounds from his pistol that had a licence from Bulandshahr district.
 
 SP (City) Akash Tomar said that Prince has a criminal history as well. “He had been jailed in the past for his involvement in a loot incident that had taken place in a jewellery store in Sector 18, Noida, in 2003. The pistol recovered from Sanjeev has a licence from Uttarakhand and the licence-holder is not authorised to use the weapon in the state of UP,” Tomar said.
 
 A court in Ghaziabad sent Prince to judicial custody on Thursday afternoon. 
 
 “I have a serious heart ailment. I was only named as one of the conspirators in the Noida Sector 18 jewellery store loot case,” Prince told TOI.
 
 “Additional criminal charges for unauthorised use of weapon will be slapped against Sanjeev. It is not yet clear how many rounds were fired from Sanjeev’s weapon though, prima facie, it appears both pistols were used in the crime,” Tomar said. 
 
 The police said reports of ballistic tests were awaited to ascertain which weapon fired the fatal bullet. Eyewitness accounts of the crime are also being examined by cops to find out which weapon’s bullet punctured the left side of Aman’s chest.
 
 
