GHAZIABAD: A man from   in Haryana has been arrested by the   police for allegedly posting morphed   of a woman on social networking sites. The accused, Harvinder Singh (24), was engaged to her but the woman’s family had called off the engagement after learning that he was already married.

 Singh began sending morphed nude photos to the woman and her relatives on social media one and a half years ago to spoil the woman’s reputation. He was finally arrested on Monday in Panipat following a raid conducted by the police from Vijay Nagar.
 
 SP (city) Salmantaj Patil said, “A case was registered in May last year against an unidentified person who was harassing a girl from Dundahera by posting her morphed nude photographs on   and other social networking sites. Our investigation revealed that a man later identified as Harvinder Singh for Panipat was behind this. However, he kept evading the police. We then received a tip-off and raided his house in Panipat on Monday and arrested him.”
 
 The man has been booked under 67A (publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act, etc. in electronic form) and 66C (identity theft by fraudulently making use of the electronic signature, password or any other unique identification feature) of the IT Act.
 
 The woman’s family members said they had been subjected to this ordeal for the last one and a half years and were relieved to hear about the arrest. “We are happy that the culprit has been arrested,” said the woman’s mother.
 
 The victim’s brother told TOI, “My sister was engaged to Harvinder Singh on January 29 last year but three months later we got to know that he was already married following which we called off the engagement. Three months after that my sister started receiving abusive and threatening messages and morphed photographs on her Facebook account from an unidentified account. We then lodged an FIR with the Vijay Nagar police station.”
 
 He said, “It was much later that we realised these were the same photographs that we had given to Harvinder during the engagement. We informed the police who conducted their investigation and confirmed our apprehensions leading to his arrest.” 
 
 Singh, who was produced in front of media on Tuesday, confessed to his crime.
 
 
