LUCKNOW: Father of  , the first-year medical student of   (SRMS), Bareilly , whose body was found hanging in her hostel room on September 6, has sent a letter to the institute's chairman, accusing SRMS of depriving students of their freedom and of creating an environment of hostility on the campus. In his letter, the victim's father Anadi Dixit said students at SRMS are not allowed to carry their phones (issued by the college) even to the academic area.

 “If Ananya's phone had been with her on the fateful day , when she was sent alone from college to hostel, she would have been with us today ,'' Dixit wrote in the letter, alleging that Ananya was attacked while she was returning to hostel on September 6, and since she was not allowed to carry her phone, she fell prey to seniors and hostel staff, hence none other than college administration is responsible for her death.
 
 Dixit's letter was in response to SRMS chairman Dev Murti's letter condoling Ananya's death. In his letter, Murti had said that students--as evident from call details of Ananya's mobile phone--enjoy optimum freedom . “If there had been any case of ragging, she must have informed you (Ananya's family) and you could have contacted the college autho rities but nothing like that happened because there was no ragging on campus,'' Murti wrote in his letter, a copy of which is with TOI. Dixit has alleged that till September 3--the day she joined college after a break--Ananya was happy and healthy . Dixit also said in his letter that the institute's stringent rules and confinement of first-year students were proof of ragging incidents on the campus and college management knew about it.“Taking affidavits from first-year students, who are actually victims rather than perpetrators, is a futile exercise,'' Dixit wrote.
 
 He also raised questions on the institutes' security and safety as six students have died on the campus in as many years.He has also asked SRMS authorities why the institute's attendance monitoring committee did not contact Ananya when she was absent for two sessions, on September 5 and September 6.
 
 'Health minister has sought details'
 
 Anadi Dixit, who was in Bareilly on Saturday, met UP health minister Siddharth Nath Singh and apprised him of his daughter's death inside Sri Ram Murti Smarak Institute of Medical Sciences.“He has sought all details regarding this incident and assured help,'' said Dixit.
 
