JAIPUR: At a time when the health department is taking measures to strengthen healthcare facilities in rural areas, an inspection conducted by Jaipur district administration at   found 28 medical workers, including doctors and nursing staff, missing from duty and three sub-health centres closed on Saturday.

  inspected 100 health centres, including   (CHCs), primary health centres (PHCs) and sub-health centres.
 
 The sudden inspection was conducted by sub-divisional magistrates, block development officers and tehsildars in their respective areas following the directions of district collector Siddharth Mahajan.
 
 Mahajan said that 25 CHCs, 52 PHCs and 25 sub-health centres were inspected.
 
 During the inspections, the administration was shocked to see that sub-health centres in Purawala, Paldi and Bhanod in Viratnagar were closed. Also, 28 healthcare workers, including doctors at Andhi CHC, Sarwad Tala and Bhawani PHCs, were absent.
 
 Mahajan said that they would take action against healthcare workers found missing on duty. He said disciplinary action would be taken against “missing” doctors too.
 
 During inspections, the district administration officials also found that there were health centres which were not properly cleaned. They have sent the report to the district administration about the inspection they conducted in their respective areas.
 
 District collector had issued directions to officials directing them to conduct inspections at all health centres. Officials checked attendance of healthcare staff, their uniform, ID cards, cleanliness and toilets. They also checked if meetings of the medical relief society were being held on time and if patients were getting the benefit of free medicine and diagnostic tests.
 
 Though the construction of Jamdoli CHC has already been completed, it has still not been shifted from the old building, which is in a dilapidated condition. The collector also immediately issued directions to shift the CHC without any delay.
 
