Pitampura's   came alive with Punjabi music when singer   performed on Sunday. His performance was part of the Greesham Utsav 2017 – The Summer Festival, a month long event organized by Delhi tourism across different venues in the city. 

  
 Born and bought up in Delhi, Dilbagh says the city has played a pivotal role in his career and he feels connected to the audience here. "Delhi ke liye perform karna matlab gharwalon ke liye perform karna. I perform at concerts all over India, but I share a deep connection with Delhiites. I started my career here, all my music teachers are from Delhi. Initially, I would perform at different locations in the city and I have to say, I learnt a great deal about singing from the audience's reaction here."
 
  
  
 
  He added, "Unlike other cities, people in Delhi give you an instant reaction. If you don’t perform well in the first few minutes of your performance, people will simply leave or boo you down. They will not give you a second chance, which is why it is important to impress them in the beginning itself."
 
  
  
 
  Dilbagh studied in Sukho Khalsa School of Tilak Nagar and has a lot of fond memories of the area. He said, "During my school days, my friends would impress girls by buying them gifts, but I would simply sing songs to make them like me. My girlfriend in school liked me because of my voice."
 
  
  Some of the audience members got to join Dilbagh on stage 
 
  
 Besides the song 'Mari Gali' from 'Tanu Weds Manu', Dilbagh sang other songs like 'Gur Naal Ishq Mitha', 'Mast Qalandar' and many more. Rajendra Sharma, who had come from Vaishali with his family, said, "I have heard Dilbagh’s song Mari Gali, but this is the first time I am seeing him perform live. Since it is a Sunday, I came for an outing with my family but decided to stay longer when I heard that Dilbagh would be performing here. Some of the songs he sang, like 'Mere  ' and 'Dupatta Tera Sat Rang Da', were a big hit when I was young."
 
  Manju Joshi, who had come from Saraswati Vihar, said, "I came here with my four-year-old son and my husband. A magic show was organized before Dilbagh’s performance at the event, my son really enjoyed that. Dilbagh's performance was a treat for me and my husband as we both enjoyed a lot and stayed till the end."
 
  Besides star musical performances such as this, other activities being organised every weekend from May 19 to June 18 include an array of activities. Workshops for painting, pottery, career counseling, personality development, photography, art and craft are being held. There will also be magicians performing, DJ nights, traditional dance performances, nukkad natak and band performances. 
 
 --Vibha.Maru@timesgroup.com
