 has written to   recently on the need to protect the   to sustain  
 
 Col CP Muthanna, president, Coorg Wildlife Society, in his letter, has requested the Prime Minister to hear his‘Mann Ki Baat’ as an Army veteran and a citizen who is deeply concerned bout the future of South India. Explaining Kodagu’s eco-importance, the Col in his letter says:
 
 “Kodagu is a small Western Ghats district with an area of 4108 sq km. It is perhaps one of the most important districts of India as it is the principal catchment of river Cauvery. Kodagu provides almost 50 percent of the total inflow into Cauvery. The three major tributaries of Cauvery also originate in the Western Ghat evergreen hill forests of Kodagu. Cauvery is the lifeline of South India and provides water to over 80 million people and 600 major industries across the region. The food, water and economic security of Southern India hinges largely on Cauvery River. It is therefore in national interest to preserve the Kodagu landscape and protect its ecosystems.”
 
 The letter adds, “Kodagu provides over 70 per cent of the total inflow into KRS dam. Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have serious disputes over the sharing of Cauvery waters. While the water sharing dispute between the two states often leads to violent protests and loss of life and property, little thought is given to the Kodagu landscape that is under severe stress. Out of the total area, about 32 per cent of the land is under forest cover. Approximately 30 per cent of the land is covered by coffee plantations and the wet land under paddy cultivation is approximately 10 per cent of the land area. Coffee in Kodagu is grown under shade with predominantly indigenous tree species. Each hectare of coffee plantation has an average of 350 mature trees. Paddy is cultivated mainly as a rain-fed crop and the wet lands of Kodagu impound approximately 50 lakh cubic meters of water for a period of about six months in a year. It is therefore obvious that apart from the forests, the coffee plantations and wet lands of Kodagu plays a major role in providing hydrological services to feed river Cauvery.”
 
 Referring to land conversion, Col Muthanna observes that through Right to Information Act, he has confirmed that about 2,800 acres of coffee plantations and wet lands in Kodagu were converted for commercial purpose during the last 10 years. He says hundreds of fresh applications for conversion are also pending. These commercial conversions are mainly for the purpose of resorts, hotels, sites, residential layouts, villas and gated communities. Such land conversions and commercial ventures result in huge loss of green cover in Kodagu. Moreover, when large land excavations and constructions take place on the hill slopes and crests, it has an adverse affect on the precipitation of the surrounding area. In case of constructions on wetlands, the sub-surface ground water table is severely depleting. The pace at which Kodagu is being urbanized it is only a matter of time before it becomes a ‘Slum City’. “We are also investigating a number of projects that appear to have been cleared without adhering to proper rules and procedures,” he said.
 
 On development projects through Kodagu, the letter states that, last year, over 55,000 trees were cut in Kodagu for the sake of constructing a 400KV High tension Power Line from Mysuru to Kozihkode in Kerala. “Such massive tree-felling has certainly affected the rainfall pattern in Kodagu and would have released huge quantity of silt into the KRS dam. Making matters worse, there are now plans to push a railway line through Kodagu and to widen the existing roads to two lane and four lane National Highways. This will again result in the destruction of several thousands of precious trees that provide water for Cauvery. Kodagu certainly does not need a railway line. An online campaign against the Railway line through Kodagu has received more than 18,000 supporters. In case of NHs, the existing roads need to be improved and maintained in accordance with the laid down specifications. “Kodagu is one of the smallest districts of Karnataka with an area of just over 4000 sqkm. Projects such as 400 KV power line, railway line and NH would rip Kodagu apart,” the letter stated.
 
 
