GURUGRAM: National Green Tribunal ( ) has instructed the Central Pollution Control Board ( ) to carry out laboratory tests of samples of   from  .

 The NGT gave the order on Tuesday in the wake of a petition by city-based environmentalist Vivek  , alleging that leachate from the defunct solid waste management plant in Bandhwari was flowing into underground aquifers, thereby contaminating the groundwater of the area.
 
 “We have been ordered to carry out laboratory tests of ground water samples from Bandhwari and we will soon comply with the instructions of the green tribunal. A survey will be carried out first and then samples will be collected. These samples will be tested in an authorised laboratory,” sources in CPCB told TOI.
 
 According to sources in MCG, the CPCB was instructed earlier too by the NGT to carry out tests of groundwater from Bandhwari.
 
 “During the last hearing of the case too, on June 21 this year, the NGT had asked CPCB to conduct laboratory tests of Bandhwari’s groundwater. Anyway, we have been conducting tests of ground water samples from 11 locations in and around Bandhwari every month. These samples are tested at an authorised laboratory. All the components are within the permissible limits. Most importantly, there is no presence of heavy metals in the samples,” said the sources.
 
 It may be mentioned here the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) had last year submitted test reports of groundwater samples from Bandhwari, which showed the groundwater was not polluted. But Kamboj had filed a rejoinder in the green court, challenging the test results, and submitted a report from an independent laboratory to show that the groundwater was polluted.
 
 “It has been more than one and a half years that the case is in the NGT. We expect the court to give a final order at the earliest as it is affecting the lives of so many villagers and the eco-sensitive Aravalis. I don’t understand what are we waiting for? Are we waiting for a disaster in Bandhwari? CPCB should immediately carry out the tests as groundwater contamination is taking place in Bandhwari,” said Kamboj from Haryali, an environmental NGO.
 
 Green activists are happy with the green court’s latest order.
 
 “I appreciate that the green court has asked a neutral agency to carry out the tests of groundwater samples. It is good if MCG is conducting regular monitoring of the groundwater samples in Bandhwari. However, CPCB’s tests will give a clearer picture on the state of groundwater in Bandhwari. It is very important as a test was conducted last year by us and we found the presence of some heavy metals in water samples,” said Rekha Singh, an expert in municipal solid waste handling and water technology.
 
 Spread across an area of 32 acres, the Bandhwari solid waste treatment plant, located off Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, has been lying defunct since November 2013, after a fire broke out at the plant. The corporations of Gurgaon and Faridabad, however, are still dumping 1,100 tonnes of mixed waste every day at the site.
 
