CHANDIGARH: Even as the debate on whether the successive governments in Punjab ignored existing industry while trying to woo new investments rages, a survey of steel industry in Mandi   has revealed that the industrial cluster alone lost 150 units in the past decade. 

 The study conducted by Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh, concludes that over 14,000 workers, who were directly employed in the industrial units lost their jobs, besides the employment in the unorganised sector too being hit due to the downward trend. It also led to an estimated annual revenue loss of Rs 95 crore to the state.
 
 CRRID economist Professor Ranjit Singh Ghuman has prepared the report titled ‘Status of industrial development in Punjab: A case study of Mandi Gobindgarh industrial cluster’. Prof Ghuman told TOI that it was also found that among the laid off staff, nearly 44% workers were from Punjab and the remaining 56% were migrants.
 
 “As the state doesn’t have any comprehensive industrial policy, there is an urgent need to set one if we are really interested to give a boost to industry in Punjab and thereby give employment to the youth,” he said.
 
 The gross annual average revenue of the operative sampled units under the project came to Rs 6,871 lakh. Assuming this as the average of 150 closed units, the aggregate gross annual revenue would be Rs 10,30,650 lakh. “Such a huge revenue loss has serious implications for industrial development, state’s development, employment and tax collection. Further, this revenue loss has adverse impact on the consumption multiplier,” said Ghuman, who conducted the study along with assistant professor Jatinder Singh.
 
 “The government and its policy makers must do introspection on as to why despite the financial incentives, private investment is not coming to the state. The perception of the private capital about the intentions of the state leadership and investment climate needs to be changed. In addition to that public investment in the industrial sector also needs to be stepped up,” said Ghuman.
 
 Mandi Gobindgarh industrial cluster comprises around 500 steel units and the town is often referred to as steel town of India.
 
 Owner of a steel unit in   explained that in case of the steel industry in particular, it was a combination of factors that led to many units shutting down. “These included withdrawal of freight equalization policy, high tax rate, high electricity tariff, absence of tax incentives, development of integrated steel units in other states of the country, implementation of e-TRIP policy in 2012, fluctuations in steel prices in the international market. Due to this, many units became uncompetitive and accordingly went out of market,” he said.
 
 In decline
 
 About 150 industrial units in Gobindgarh closed down during the last about 10-12 years
 
 Estimated direct employment loss due to the closure of these units around 14,000
 
 Of these, 44% of the workers were from Punjab and the remaining 56% were migrants
 
 Estimated revenue loss (per annum) to the state comes out to be Rs 95 crore
 
 Recommendations in report
 
 Government should encourage existing units to upgrade technology
 
 Level playing field to the industrial units in Punjab with similar benefits as neighboring states such as Himachal Pradesh, Uttrakhand and Jammu and Kashmir
 
 The state needs to have a comprehensive industrial policy
 
 Agro-based industrial development required
 
 In view of the large scale closure/shifting of industrial units from Punjab, the state must commission a comprehensive study to know the reasons
 
 Big picture is scarier
 
 During 2007-2013, 18,770 industrial units in Punjab were shut down. Amritsar was the district with highest number of closed units at 43% between 2007 and 2013, followed by Ludhiana, Gurdaspur and  . Among the three cultural zones of Punjab, Majha and Doaba region accounted for 75% of the closed units of Punjab during 2007 and 2013, Malwa housed the rest 25%.
 
 
