HYDERABAD: Traumatised by the pressure put on him by his kafil (employer), a 22-year-old youth from a poverty-stricken agricultural family from   committed suicide by hanging himself in Damam,  . 

 If this shocked the family of Harish Malyala, their travails have not ended as they are unable to get the body back to India. Harish was sent by an agent to Damam to work as a driver on November 7, 2016. Tragically, in less than a month, he took his life on December 1, 2016. 
 
 "Only the previous day, he spoke to us about the problems he was facing," said Mahesh, a relative of the victim.
 
 What drove Harish to the point of suicide was that though he was employed as a driver, his kafil was pestering him to do all household work. Harish protested but in vain. The kafil then demanded that Harish pay 50,000 if he had to be sent back to India. Harish informed his family about his predicament. "Though his family was going through a tough time financially they said they would arrange the money," Mahesh told TOI. 
 
 However, the very next morning, Harish committed suicide in his room. To add to the woes of the family, the kafil who informed the family that all legal formalities had been completed to send the body back home, asked them to pay 9,000 Saudi riyals ( 1.62 lakh) to meet the expenditure. 
 
 Harish's family hailing from Kolimikunta of   mandal in Karimnagar district is too poor to bear the expenditure. The family reportedly has one acre of land. 
 
 As the agent promised him a driver's job with 1800 riyals as monthly pay, Harish went to Saudi Arabia. There the kafil not only told him that his salary would be only 1200 riyals, but he was to do all the household work for two years.
 
 Faced with this situation, he ended his life. Mahesh has petitioned Union external affairs minister   for help. He has also brought the problem to the notice of IT and   affairs minister K T Rama Rao.
 
 Harish was sent by an agent to Damam to work as a driver on November 7, 2016. Tragically, in less than a month, he took his life on December 1, 2016. What drove Harish to the point of suicide was that though he was employed as a driver, his kafil was pestering him to do all household work
 
