BHOPAL:   in Singrauli district of   were   at a   mass marriage on Monday. When the teachers protested, they were taken off the bizarre job just before chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan arrived for the function. State's school education minister Deepak Joshi has now sought a report from the district education officer (DEO). 

 About 400 teachers were deputed to serve food at the ceremony, say sources. Surprisingly, written orders were issued to the teachers, clearly specifying which food item they were expected to serve.
 
 In the official order from the DEO, dated May 20 (a copy of which is with TOI), some teachers were ordered to serve puri, some 'daal' and others were told to serve rice, sabji and likewise. Majority of the teachers had to double-up as 'waiters' serving food to 2,390 couples, who tied the nuptial knot and their kin at the Mukhya Mantri Kanyadan Yojna programme. "It felt as if we were waiters. It is against our dignity," said a teacher wishing anonymity. Another teacher of primary school Balram Singh posted at the Mahuari Tola government primary school Singrauli said, "What can we do if there are orders and names in the list? We had no option but to comply with it. All our colleagues were there. This the first time that we are asked to serve food during a function."
 
 Singh was instructed to serve daal. Another teacher, Mohanlal of Ekpai primary school, who was ordered to serve salad said, "Duty is duty, we so we obeyed the orders." An office bearer of the district unit of the Shiskshak Adhyapak Sangh, Neerja Dwivedi told TOI, "I am out of station, but I came to know about the incident. This is against the dignity of teachers. Officials should think twice before assigning such jobs to teachers. We will take a call on further call of action once the school vacations are over." Sources said that on May 20 a meeting of the teachers was convened and without giving them time the officials handed them a list that had their names and jobs assigned to them. Despite repeated attempts, district education officer Rajkishore Dubey could not be contacted.
 
