BENGALURU: The startling revelations made by now transferred DIG (Prisons) D Roopa at the Central Jail,  , has jolted the state government and posed uncomfortable questions about prisons management in the state.

 Even before Roopa raised her voice on the sordid truths about life inside  , these issues were known. But neither the home department nor the state government took any action.
 
 Top officials who served as head of the prisons department in the past, said the genesis of all these allegations are the 123-year-old prison laws and apathy of the state government in   and providing manpower. Though the prison's manual was revised twice since it was enacted, several archaic laws still rule the roost in the state.
 
 For instance, the manual allows liquor and cigarettes to be served to inmates -and this rule is often misused to supply liquor inside jail. The Prisons Act 1894 was framed in the colonial era, keeping in mind the high-profile freedom fighters in prisons.
 
 The outdated manual also makes provisions for homemade food, which is often misused to supply drugs, mobile phones, among other illegal things. The manual also allows the jail authorities to run a Prisoners' Welfare Canteen which has become an avenue to earn illicit profit for the jail staff, who sell things at exorbitant prices. For instance, a senior officer who served at Parappana Agrahara said around 2,000 boiled eggs are put on sale for a Rs 10 each every day for the 0 4,200 inmates, while the ac tual cost should be Rs 5.
 
 In 2016, a draft Model Prisons Act was circulated by the Centre to the states to replace the archaic Prisons Act 1894, but this Bill is yet to be enacted. ST Ramesh, retired ADGP and former Inspector General (Prisons), said prisons have been neglected by successive governments as they earmark funds only for salaries of jail staff and food of inmates. This has resulted in a huge manpower crunch and inadequate infrastructure in all prisons of the state, he added.
 
 
 
 
 Inefficiency, corruption, violence, homosexual assaults, drug addiction, liquor smuggling, prostitution, brutal living conditions and blatant connivance of jail officials, patronage to some high-profile convicts and undertrials, official apathy and political interference have all been associated with the state prisons.
 
 But these issues haven't got as much notice as the long list of celebrated occupants -from stamp paper kingpin Abdul Karim Telgi to AIADMK interim general secretary V Sasikala. “For the outside world, Parappana Agrahara is all about yoga, vocational centres, drug deaddiction, cultural and sports events. But it is only the officials who have benefited from this publicity, not the inmates. The physical and mental torture that inmates go through is beyond one's imagination,'' P Kariappa, a former inmate, said.
 
 There are inmates who run moneylending businesses inside jail only to support their families outside. “When I tried to discontinue the system of allowing homemade food, the prisoners, with the support of jail officials, launched a hunger strike, forcing the government to direct me to reverse the order.You cannot reform jails unless you repeal the outdated Prisons Act completely or simply follow the Gujarat model to appoint IPS officers as jail superintendents of all major jails,'' said a former ADGP (prisons).
 
 The misuse of parole is also rampant. After six months of jail stay, every prisoner is entitled to 4-week parole. As per the Karnataka Good Conduct Prisoner (Temporary Release) Act, parole is allowed only after the recommendation of the district magistrate and the SP. But it is said that jail superintendents and influential people play a decisive role in granting parole.
 
 
 
 The Indian prison system swears by reformation and rehabilitation but in reality our ails are dungeons where corruption thrives. Reforms may be the buzzword in every sphere of Indian society but our prisons are pictures of only gloom and despair, the archaic aw that governs them being one of the prime causative actors. There may have been ome cosmetic developments over time, but they are too sporadic and rare. There is an urgent need to end the brutalities, corruption and violence in jails with checks and balances, failing which hey will become a place where first-time offenders are turned into hardened criminals.
 
