PATNA: Ridiculing the idea of holding simultaneous elections to Parliament and state legislatures,   boss Lalu Prasad on Sunday dared PM   and   to dissolve the Lok Sabha and conduct simultaneous elections in the six states going to the polls in near future.

 The six states where assembly elections are due within a year are the PM’s home state Gujarat, Nagaland, Karnataka, Meghalaya, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura.
 
 Talking to reporters at his residence, Lalu also said the PM and the BJP might get to know their “actual political strength” afresh if they show courage to dissolve the Lok Sabha and hold simultaneous elections in the six states.
 
 Opposing the PM’s idea of holding simultaneous elections, Lalu said Modi wanted to demolish the country’s federal structure. “They actually wanted to abolish regional parties like us. But we will not allow such things at any cost,” he said. “I urge Narendra Modi and the BJP to dissolve the Lok Sabha and hold simultaneous elections with the six states where elections are due in near future. You will get to know your actual strength,” RJD boss said while taking a swipe at the PM.
 
 He also said Modi now wanted to portray himself as ‘Lord Rama’. “Recently, at an NDA meeting, all MPs of the National Democratic Alliance were asked to act and behave like ‘Hanuman’. They were asked to be like Hanuman of Lord Rama. It shows how Modi wants to become like Lord Rama by expecting all his MPs to act like Hanuman,” Lalu said. 
 
 Terming the Modi government a “complete failure on all fronts”, Lalu said the NDA government at the Centre was going to complete three years, but Modi failed to fulfil any of the promises he had made to the people during the 2014 general elections.
 
 “Modi had promised job to one crore youths per annum, double crop price to farmers, tit-for-tat to Pakistan and China. Did he fulfil any of these promises?” the RJD chief quipped. To a question on presidential elections, Lalu said he was yet to hold talks with different opposition stalwarts on the issue. “But, all secular forces will be united before the presidential polls. We will go together,” he said.
 
 
