New Delhi:   gathered pace in February on the back of rising prices of some food products, reversing the declining trend after seven months, which may prompt the   ( ) to hold interest rates when it reviews monetary policy in April. Data released by the   ( ) on Tuesday showed retail   as measured by the   rose an annual 3.65% in February, faster than previous month’s 3.17% rise, which was the slowest pace in more than five years.

 Separate data released by the commerce and industry ministry showed the wholesale price index rose an annual 6.55% in February, rising from previous month’s 5.25% increase. This was the highest in more than three years. 
 
 The difference between   and WPI, which was 25 basis points in November 2016 increased to 290 basis points in February 2017. Since December 2016,   inflation is more than CPI inflation, according to estimates by  . In both sets of data, some food prices such as sugar and confectionery showed signs of firming up, although prices of vegetables and pulses declined.
 
 Economists said prospects of a rate cut remain muted.
 
 “Nevertheless, likelihood of a   cut by the RBI in April 2017 remains subdued, given its focus on bringing inflation to 4% in a durable manner. In fact, CPI inflation is expected to rise to above 4.5% in March 2017, as the base effect continues to unwind and prices of perishables track a seasonal uptrend,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ratings agency  . She said month-on-month rise in food prices was muted in both CPI and WPI, dampened by the continued correction in prices of pulses, on the back of healthy production estimates for FY2017.
 
 “WPI inflation recorded a much sharper uptick in February 2017 relative to the sequential rise in CPI inflation. Some of the factors that led to the spike in WPI inflation are not part of CPI basket, for instance commodities such as crude oil and coal,” said Nayar.
 
 Economists said the future trend of retail inflation would be guided by how vegetable prices move. “We expect FY18 average CPI inflation at 4.8%,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, State Bank of India. “We therefore expect RBI to hold rates in the first bi-monthly policy statement for 2017-18,” he said.
 
 
