VARANASI: In the unpredictable world of power politics in east UP , fortunes rise and fall in a hurry. But for nearly three decades, there's been one constant:  , 77, a BJP politician, whose victory in every election was as assured as a sunrise. Dada, as he's called, made South Varanasi his pocket borough winning seven times in a row since 1989, even as BJP's fate peaked and slumped.

 But he was denied a ticket this time - and it has angered his supporters who swear by his work ethics and stain-free image. Some feel it could adversely affect BJP's performance in PM  's Lok Sabha constituency.
 
 “He's honest and accessible. People are wondering why he wasn't made to contest. They didn't even have the courtesy to inform Dada,“ says cabbie Shyamji Tiwari.
 
 The former UP minister is known to either walk or ride pillion on a two-wheeler. “He helps all, irrespective of caste or community. What message is BJP giving party workers,“ asks Gaurav Kapoor, organiser, Banaras Litfest. The furore over the decision forced party bigwigs, including Amit Shah, state party chief Keshav Prasad Maurya and Union minister Manoj Sinha to smoothen Dada's ruffled feathers.
 
 “I asked Mauryaji mera kusoor kya hai. He said koi kusoor nahi hai, bhool ho gayee. I said you can rectify the mistake, nominations hadn't been filed then. But nothing happened,“ Roy Chaudhari said. According to Roy Chaudhari, he's only one of two incumbent MLAs to be dropped; Vimla Batham in Noida the other. “The buzz was that I was overage. But the party insisted that's not the issue. At least two BJP nominees -one in Meerut, another in Kushinagar -are older. I'm fit and willing. The ticket thing is a real mystery,“ Dada said.
 
 Local BJP spokesperson Sanjay Bhardwaj said Dada had a special place in Varanasi's politics. “Nobody can question his commit ment to the party. He isn't canvassing but as campaigning gathers momentum, I'm sure Dada will do what the party says,“ he said. Neelkanth Tiwary is BJP's candidate this time. Varanasi has among the largest sections of Bengalis outside their home state. “They're spread across 17 neighbourhoods, from Dasaswamedh ghat to Sonarpura,“ says journalist Amitabh Bhattacharya. “The well-heeled built homes on the banks but many have been usurped,“ said Ashok Kanti Chakravarty , vice-president, Bangiya Samaj. The community's contribution to the town is immense.Sitarist Ravi Shankar, writer Premendra Mitra, singer Hemanta Kumar were all born here. As was Ashim Kumar, hero of the first Bhojpuri film. But local Bengalis now say they feel `marginalised' as a community , labelled `outsiders'.
 
 Roy Chaudhari's forefathers came from east Bengal. The commerce graduate owned a photography shop; now his family runs a hotel. 
 
 His political career has followed a familiar trajectory: RSS, Jan Sangh, BJP. Ironically, there are murmurs that a national-level RSS leader was instrumental in getting him dropped.
 
 As a politician, Roy Chaudhari has overcome many odds. In the 2007 delimitation exercise, he lost parts of his core area that he had cultivated assiduously yet he emerged victorious in 2012 with margin of over 13,000 votes.
 
 Undeniably, Dada’s popularity cuts across social groups. But among the most miffed at the ‘injustice’ of ticket denial are the Bengalis, already chaffed at the ‘marginalisation’. “Most Bengali voters come under another assembly seat, Varanasi (Cant). But their anger could cause collateral damage to BJP in that seat,” says Bhattacharya. BJP won Varanasi (Cant) by 12,000 votes in 2012; the area has an estimated 50,000 Bengali voters.
 
