BENGALURU: 216  , 217  , 174 gynaecologists, 94  , 63 general surgeons -these many specialist posts have been lying vacant in   across Karnataka. Result: The government is now forced to  

 With a shortage of 1,100 specialists in its hospitals, the government has decided to hire private doctors. Hiring will be done on a temporary basis and will be need-based.The medical superintendent or doctor in charge of the government medical facility will take the call on when and who to hire for emergency services. While the association of private hospitals sees the move as a great idea to deliver quality care to poor patients, doctors in the health department say it's not easy to get private practitioners when there is a need, especially during emergencies in taluk hospitals.
 
 The government has proposed to pay Rs 1.25 lakh per month to a specialist, who volunteers to work in government hospitals. If the doctor comes on a visit, heshe will be paid Rs 2000 for six-hour outpatient duty (OPD) per day .
 
 The state has 206 community health centres (CHCs) which need gynaecologists, paediatricians, anaesthetists, and dentists. But the posts in most CHCs are vacant. In 146 taluk hospitals of the state, there is a need for specialists such as gynaecologist, dentist, paediatrician, ENT specialist, ophthalmologist and anaesthetist.
 
 Health and family welfare minister K R Ramesh Kumar told TOI that despite the many Source: Health departme vacancies, the government is trying its best to provide quality health care in government hospitals. “Doctors aren't coming forward to work in government hospitals. Not all those shortlisted by the KPSC for recruitment came forward to work in government hospitals. We advertised for recruitment of 980 specialist doctors, but only 500 candidates appeared for the interview. Of them, not even hundred reported to work,“ said Kumar.
 
 “It's been observed that some specialist doctors working in CHCs live in nearby towns and run their own clinics, instead of turning up for hospital work. They get patients to visit their clinics instead of accessing the government facility. Such malpractice has to stop. We aren't asking anyone to make sacri fices, but medical professionals need to serve in government hospital.“
 
 Despite the lure of good incentives, it's difficult to find specialists doctors in many taluks. “For six hours of work in the OPD, the government pays a private practitioner Rs 2000. Yet places like Chikkanayakanahalli, a taluk in Tumakuru, has no specialists even in the private sector. It's equally tough to find specialist doctors in North Karnatka districts of Raichur, Kalaburagi and Vijayapura,“ said Dr T A Veerabhadraiah, president, Karnataka Government Medical Officers' Association (KGMOA).
 
 Also, there are PG medical students who would have studied under the government quota but aren't turning up for the mandatory one-year government service, thereby affecting rural healthcare. Recently , the government issued a list of 661 specialist doctors who studied in Karnataka but hadn't turned up for compulsory government service as per the bond they signed.
 
 
 
 
 It's a pity that a profession as noble as medicine is today increasingly driven by profit-making, and not a sense of service. Medical professionals shunning rural stints is the key reason for community health centres failing miserably. While hiring private practitioners and specialists will be an expensive move, the government seems to be left with no alternative. The huge vacancies across departments are a clear pointer to the poor health of government medical facilities. Sadly, access to private healthcare is the privilege of a few.Medical professionals need to understand their responsibility towards patients. After all, it's not for nothing that they take the Hippocratic Oath before starting their practice.
 
