NAGPUR: With three students competing for every seat available under the Right To Education (RTE) quota, Nagpur district has created history. Though the deadline for applications is Thursday midnight, Nagpur is way ahead of the entire state, with an unassailable statistical ratio of 3.22 applications per seat, with Pune coming in second at a ratio of 2.28.

 For 2017-18  ,   seems to hold complete sway. The number three, four and five spots are occupied by Wardha (1.70), Amravati (1.67) and Akola (1.38) respectively, holding on to a steady lead over others. 
 
 Till Wednesday afternoon, Nagpur had received 22,895 applications for 7,099 seats while Pune had got 35,868 applications for its 15,693  .  , head of the RTE committee for all six districts under Nagpur division, said, “We are extremely happy with the numbers because it’s a result of months of work. From last year itself we intensified the RTE awareness campaign and accelerated it in the months preceding the start of admission process. It’s team work, and the entire department has to take the credit for making this RTE admission season such a huge success.”
 
 The admission process has been shifted online across the state and since most of the parents applying under RTE are from poor socio-economic background, guidance centres were brought into play. Premchand Raut, coordinator for RTE admissions in Nagpur district, said, “We had a lot of interaction with parents and made sure that nobody had any problem with filing an application online. The staff at guidance centres was ensuring that even illiterate parents had a hassle-free experience. We even organized special guidance camps for children with physical disabilities and helped their parents apply.”
 
 Private groups too worked in tandem with the education department to spread the word around.  , founder of NGO RTE Action Committee, said, “We had started multiple helpline numbers for parents and guardians along with guidance centres in some of the busy areas.” 
 
 However, the extremely high ratio of 3:1 for applications against seats available also means that 70% of the applicants won’t get admission in the coming session. The applications are being accepted for RTE seats in private unaided (non-minority) schools, which means students can still get free admissions, or at minimal cost, in government and government-aided schools.
 
 Another statistic that shows a huge disparity across the state is the number of applications received by each district. After Pune’s 35.8K and Nagpur’s 22.8K, the next is Mumbai with just 8,798 applications. A former education official, who was with the department in RTE’s first season, said, “The figures say it all. It proves which district has done its job properly because there’s no way such stark differences can crop up.”
 
 
