PUNE: The freakishly warm February this year broke at least 113 past temperature records for the month, according to the   (IMD). Last month was also 1.3 degree C warmer than the 20th century February average.

 Besides, the month was the fourth hottest February since 1901; that too without an   hounding the Pacific waters. In terms of magnitude of warming, February witnessed the highest warming trend as compared to other winter months in 2016-17.
 
 On similar lines, the country’s average temperature for December last year registered an increase of 1.12 degrees C above normal, a worry revelation because the fag end of 2016 was free of El Nino or any El Nino-like condition. It was also the second hottest December in India since 1901.
 
 A K Srivastava, senior scientist and head of the climate monitoring and analysis group at IMD, Pune, told TOI, “Normally, a year with significantly warmer temperatures due to a full blown El Nino, like what we witnessed in 2015-16, is followed by   and consequent fall in temperatures by an equal magnitude. However, that cooling did not take place during the recent winter due to a weak La Nina. The warming caused by El Nino in 2015-16 therefore subsisted in the Pacific Ocean, was released into the atmosphere and increased the mean land surface air temperature,” he said.
 
 Srivastava said the easterly wave activity in peninsular India was quite intense during the 2016-17 winter. “This was also responsible for the temperatures in the southern parts of the country being warmer than normal during the winter,” he said.
 
 Akshay Deoras, a masters student at the Institute for Climate and Atmospheric Science, University of Leeds, UK, had earlier investigated the reduced western disturbance activity over northwest India in 2015. The research was recently published in the Asia Pacific Journal of Atmospheric Science. According to Deoras, the 2016-17 winter was warmer than normal due to the reduced frequency of western disturbances over north India.
 
 Deoras said that winter weather in many areas of India is controlled by the occurrence of western disturbances. “They bring rain and snow with them, which cause cooling in north India as well as other parts of the country,” he said.
 
 High altitude winds blowing from west to east bring these disturbances to India from the western world. “During the winter months of November-December 2016 and February 2017, western disturbances were more active in parts of Middle East, Iran and Afghanistan because of these high altitude winds blowing over these regions. But over India, there was a notable deflection of these winds, which in turn repelled the western disturbances,” Deoras said. 
 
 A senior researcher from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) said, “High-pressure circulation and consequent large-scale subsidence of the air could have been responsible for the warming during the recent winter months. However, researchers are still trying to find out the actual cause of the high pressure circulation.”
 
 Meanwhile, January this year was the tenth warmest January for India since 1901, with a 0.58 degree C rise in mean temperature.
 
