KOLKATA: Pilots flying into the city on Wednesday afternoon were in for a surprise. From the area controller, with whom they established radio contact on entering the  , to the approach controller, who took over as they flew closer to the city, and finally the tower controller, all the air traffic control officers ( ) they spoke to were women.

 For over an hour — from 11.45am to 1.15pm — an all-women ATCO crew took over the reins of the air traffic navigation at Kolkata airport to celebrate Women’s Day. “Women work round the clock on all shifts at the ATC. They manage flights and handle pressure everyday. The only difference on Wednesday afternoon was to have only women professionals around,” said   joint GM operations (training) Purbita Thakur Sinha. 
 
 Sinha, who was in the terminal approach radar on Wednesday, was among the four women radar controllers at the airport. Shyamali Haldar was the senior-most in the quatret that also had joint GM operations Mahua Bhattacharya and joint GM instructor Nima Lama. At the other end were eight freshers, including Priya Banik, Shruti Sinha, Shivangi Srivastava and  .
 
 The unseasonal rain that lashed the airport made the task challenging with departing pilots requesting a particular heading to quickly climb to a certain cruising altitude. “It was a busy traffic scenario with 10 arrivals and as many departures, in addition to 25-odd overflights. The all-women ATC and communication, navigation and surveillance (CNS) teams professionally handled air traffic navigation at Kolkata,” said   (AAI) regional executive director  .
 
 It was Jain’s idea to pool in all the women ATCOs from various shifts for an hour on Wednesday to send the message that women handle high-pressure jobs with aplomb. “Women take important decisions in every sphere of life. In the ATC, they take important decisions in extremely challenging situations. And they do it with calmness and confidence,” said Jain. Women ATCOs were aslo in charge at Patna and Ranchi airport that function under him.
 
 Kaliashpati Mandal, the regional secretary of the ATC Guild, said the women ATCOs who managed pressures at home as well as office were an inspiration to everyone. “Once we are at the terminal, there is no gender bias. We all work shoulder-to-shoulder. The Women’s Day initiative will boost the confidence of the young women colleagues who have recently joined the fraternity,” he said.
 
 
