City-based artists  ,   and   shared their thoughts on what it means to be  , female expression in its various forms, art in education and art as a profession in an interactive session moderated by  . Excerpts from the talk titled, ‘Women’s practice in today’s art fraternity’:

 Varunika Saraf: "When you see the gender ratio in fine arts education, the number of girls are far less than their male counterparts. Only three out of every 20 students are girls. The drop-out rate among girls is also very high. This is because most families don’t consider art as a good profession for girls. And this happens because even today, women are seen only through the lens of a wife, mother, sister and daughter. The change will start only when more number of women enter fields — art or otherwise — that aren’t traditionally seen as fields for women."
 
 Priyanka Aelay: "Earlier art, was considered to be just a hobby, especially for women. The practice was confined to the household. Fortunately, things are changing as women artists are expressing through various media. One shortcoming on our part, however, is that we are still fighting for an identity. But there is no need for that, because we already have claimed a space and identity. Now, the efforts should be made to push that identity forward."
 
 Pranati Khanna: "When we look at history of Indian art we often hear of men; rarely do we hear names of prominent female artists. That’s what the younger generation of women artists hope to change. We want to be remembered. Earlier, art works by women were on the gentler side, but now women are coming up with performances, installations, video arts and a lot more. This is an important and a much-needed shift in expression. That said, I think the big hindrance that female artists face today is that, for whatever reason, we are still being overridden by male artists. Hopefully, that too will slowly but surely change."
 
 Faiza Hasan: "Women artists, in the current society, is a minority group. That’s why it is all the more important that their voices are heard. And art is a powerful medium of
 expression to make sure their voices are heard. It is heartening to see women artists choosing certain mediums that are considered delicate, or even feminine, to express some very powerful ideas. For instance, something like embroidery was always associated with women; but now we see women taking up the same medium to express very powerful ideas."
 
 
 
