NAGPUR: The waiting game for aspirants seeking the   as co-opted member of the   will end next week. While the BJP has a quota of four, the Congress can co-opt one member to the  . Party sources said the list of four would be presented by the BJP on May 18 to the municipal commissioner   who will then put it before the next general body meeting likely towards month-end.

 In the   held in February, the BJP won with an overwhelming majority of 108 in the 151-member civic house retaining power for the third consecutive term. The Congress had to content itself with just 29 seats. The ruling party was bidding for time as change of rules were in the offing which were to increase the BJP quota of co-opted members to six. However, looking to the delay in getting that new rule getting passed by the government, which is now likely only by July, the BJP has decided to go ahead and fill the existing four seats. The co-opted members do not having voting rights but can participate in debates and raise issues in the civic house.
 
 There is speculation in the BJP that four names have been shortlisted and they are — Krishna Wankhede from South-West constituency, Viraj Trivedi from central Nagpur, Mahendra Raut from East and Nishant Gandhi from west Nagpur. However, city BJP president and ML Sudhakar Kohale refused to confirm it saying the names would be finalized only on Monday after discussions with chief minister   who will be in the city that day.
 
 Meanwhile in the Congress camp there is a tug of war for the lone seat. While there is strong possibility of ex-mayor and city Congress President Vikas Thakre getting it, the rival faction in the party is trying in vain to stop the move. The faction opposed to Thakre feels that this back-door entry of Thakre into the civic house, after losing in the election, would send a wrong signal. But then the move was already planned and that was the reason a weak Sanjay Mahakalkar was elected opposition leader instead of Praful Gudadhe who had a majority support among the 29 Congress members. Party sources said this was done so that once Thakre was co-opted he could do back-seat driving in the house.
 
