PUNE: Poll pundits’ expectations of a close contest in the   with no possibility of any party winning a majority has sent leaders into a flurry of activity. As the first line of action, they have fallen back on veterans to reach and convince the voters.

 Reports, including a state intelligence one, and pre-poll surveys conducted by political parties said it would be neck-and-neck between the ruling NCP and the BJP. Other parties which may win in small number will play kingmakers. Such possibilities have pushed parties into a huddle.
 
 NCP supremo  , who had announced that he would not campaign for the local polls, is back in action. BJP leaders had initially boasted that with eight MLAs and an MP, the city unit would not require the assistance of state leaders to win the polls. They are now banking on chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and other state leaders to help the party. 
 
 Congress is eyeing public meetings of former chief ministers including  , Narayan Rane and Prithviraj Chavan while MNS is completely dependent on  . Shiv Sena plans to get Uddhav from Mumbai to address meetings in Pune.
 
 Political parties have appointed their own agencies to indicate poll results. These agencies are providing regular feedback and information on the public mood. All parties have received almost similar reports. Tough contests are likely between the BJP and the NCP, a hung house and other parties playing key roles in the post-results days are common conclusions. The state intelligence report is on similar lines, government sources said.
 
 The BJP, which was hoping for a clear mandate, is worried with the trend. “The party’s image received a setback with the mess during ticket distribution. Also, opening the doors for outsiders, including criminal elements, has hit us hard. Now, we are requesting state leaders and cabinet ministers to intervene as local MLAs and MP have failed to build on the Modi wave which prevailed during the assembly and   polls,” admitted a senior BJP leader.
 
 After Fadnavis, various cabinet ministers will be in Pune to campaign for the party, he added.
 
 With Ajit Pawar single-handedly leading the NCP in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, party seniors have requested party president Sharad Pawar to come to the rescue.
 
 “The NCP chief has agreed to campaign for the party in Pune,” NCP city unit chief   said. Pawar himself had earlier said he would prefer a second line of leadership to handle the civic polls. However, with Ajit Pawar failing to take along all the factions of the party together, Pawar senior has jumped into the action though some party members are unhappy that their ‘national leader’ had to campaign in the streets of Pune.
 
 Shiv Sena will look up to Uddhav, the party’s star campaigner as the local unit has no leaders to help the party garners votes. The MNS completely depends on Raj Thackeray and his party’s candidates are using their own influence and power to attract voters. 
 
 A group of city Congress workers met former MP and suspended Congress leader   requesting him to chip in with the Congress’s fortunes. However, Kalmadi is facing court cases in corruption charges and is not even a member of the party. The city unit is banking on a series of meetings that will be addressed by former chief ministers Ashok Chavan, Narayan Rane and Prithviraj Chavan.
 
