CHANDIGARH: A quiet but radical shift has taken place in the   (PCA). The old guard which ran   for decades has handed over power to ex-players — surprisingly without any resistance. An interim body has taken over following Supreme Court’s order that office-bearers in BCCI and its state associations who don’t meet the eligibility criteria set by Lodha Committee shall cease to hold office.

 The interim body includes a four-member ad hoc committee with former   players Rakesh Rathore and  . The other two members of the committee are RP Pandove and Ajay Tyagi. Singla is the convener of the committee.
 
 After SC’s order, PCA is the first state association — among all BCCI-affiliated units — that has ex-players taking over the reins. 
 
 The SC’s order has totally cleaned up the top brass of PCA, which includes its chairman I S Bindra, president DP Reddy, treasurer Vishwajeet Khanna, secretary general MP Pandove and secretary GS Walia. Bindra and Pandove were in power for almost four decades.
 
 According to Lodha committee’s recommendations, an office-bearer should not be older than 70 years, should not be a government servant or minister, should not hold office in another sports organisation, and should not have held office with a state association for more than nine years.
 
 While Bindra and Pandove are more than 70 years old, Reddy and Khanna are IAS officers and Walia has been in the PCA set-up for more than 16 years.
 
 It is learnt that Reddy and Khanna resigned from their posts on January 12 and 13.
 
 The vacuum at the top prompted the ex-players to take over PCA administration for an interim basis till SC’s further orders. The move was necessary to run the day-to-day affairs of the association.
 
 “It is good that former cricketers are getting into cricket administration. This augurs well for the sport. And as the honourable Supreme Court has stated — more and more cricketers should enter cricket administration,” Rathore, who has also been the mayor of Jalandhar, told TOI.
 
 Rathore also hinted that the ousted officials should see the writing on the wall.
 
 “The old guard has done their bit for the sport and should move on amicably; and they should not create unnecessary trouble now. I firmly believe in the recommendations made by Lodha Committee and the order passed by the  ,” he added.
 
 Ex-secretary of the PCA GS Walia confirmed to TOI that all powers now lie with the four-member committee.
 
 “We have no intention of creating any hurdles in the working of Punjab’s cricket,” he added.
 
 But Walia was hopeful that all is not lost and the Centre will come to its rescue. “I feel the Centre will bring an ordinance and chinks in these recommendations (made by Lodha Committee) will be sorted out,” he said.
 
 The Centre moved the SC on January 20 against implementation of the Lodha Committee recommendations and sought its ‘recall’.
 
 Attorney general Mukul Rohatgi had objected to the fact that the apex court decided to implement the recommendations without hearing the government’s views. Rohatgi argued that the court’s order requires debate before a larger bench as it intrudes into internal affairs of the BCCI — which he stated was a private entity.
 
