MULVAD (NASHIK): As in many villages in Maharashtra, demonetisation has had a crippling effect in Mulvad too. Agri works are at a standstill and labourers are jobless. But while other villages are imploring the state government to bail them out of their current crisis, Mulvad is hoping for help from neighbouring Gujarat — “the Prime Minister’s state”, as the villagers refer to it.

 This tiny village in   district is located just 10-15km from Gujarat. “Modi’s state is closer to us than even the Nashik district headquarters,” says villager  . “There is a lot of money in that state. Our relatives living there say they are not facing a currency crunch at all. And it is not just money, Gujarat can share with us many things like water, roads and development projects.”
 
 Seeking PM Narendra Modi’s intervention, Karpat says, “When Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat, he would always tout that his state was the most developed in the country. Now that he is leading the nation, it’s time he shared that development with us. For a start, he should help us fight the cash crisis.”
 
 Dominated by Warli and Konkani adivasis, Mulvad is battling issues like water scarcity, road connectivity and lack of jobs. “India became independent in 1947, but we are still awaiting our freedom. Look at the conditions in which we live here. Would you say that we live in an independent nation?” an exasperated Karpat asks.
 
 Village sarpanch   points out that almost the entire village relies on small cash transactions. “Most villagers have accounts in branches of the district central cooperative bank in nearby towns but the government has put restrictions on the bank. We do not get bank loans for farming as the state government has registered its name on our 7x12 land extract records for reasons we cannot fathom. Hence, all farming is based on cash transactions. We grow rice and pulses, which are mostly used for our own consumption. Everything is at a standstill after demonetisation,” he laments.
 
 Another villager, Jayram Kambadi, says legal wranglings have hampered their efforts to secure loans. “There are a lot of issues between the forest department, members of the erstwhile Jahagirdar family which owned land in the village and the adivasis who have been tilling the land for years. This has blocked all agriculture loan proposals. Now, cash availability is almost nil in the market and farming activities have stopped. It’s bad enough that agriculture here is totally dependent on the monsoon as machines to dig borewells and wells cannot make it to the village because of the hilly roads,” he says.
 
 The village well goes dry within a couple of months in the monsoon. “Both people and animals drink from the well. Water and cash are always scarce here. We travel 50-60 km to nearby towns and spend an entire day to get money from the banks. We have to walk miles to catch a bus or get private transport. If we are forced to stand in queues day after day for our money, when will we work and earn our wages?” asks villager Kashinath Lokhande. He says a majority of villagers have opened bank accounts in the hope that the government will deposit subsidies and other financial assistance in the banks.
 
 It’s 6pm and an inebriated youth joins the conversation. He has returned from Gujarat with a bottle of country liquor. “You get cheap and fantastic country liquor there. It is a big relief in these tense days,” he says, while blaming the village elders for not developing Mulvad.
 
 A school teacher points out that Mulvad and the villages along the border in Gujarat have communities where liquor is a daily requirement. “Officially, there is a liquor ban in Gujarat but the brew is easily available in those villages. It is used for all rituals from birth to death,” he says.
 
 
