PATNA: “Sir, am I supposed to attend my classes daily,” asked a boy while securing his admission to the three-year degree course in   a couple of days back.

 On being asked to explain his query, the boy from   admitted that he has passed the intermediate examination from a local college affiliated to   School Examination Board (BSEB) without attending even a single class in a period of two years. “I thought that after getting admission in Patna College I will stay at my home in Purnia and directly write the examination after the end of the session,” he said. 
 
 The number of students making such inquiries at the time of admission in different colleges of   (PU) is appreciably large. In order to fill up a good number of vacant seats in arts, science and commerce faculties,   colleges are making a compromise with the quality. They are announcing cut-off lists again and again, lowering down the percentage of marks obtained by students in the PU common entrance test held earlier this year just to fill the seats by hook or crook.
 
 Patna College sociology department head and college admission in-charge Randhir Kumar Singh observed that PU colleges have been facing this problem ever since the number of seats in three-year degree courses in different colleges has been more than doubled by the state government six years back. 
 
 In Patna College, there were only 300 seats in BA Part I till 2010, but it was raised to 600 in 2011. Even the entrance test introduced for selecting better candidates for admission at the graduation stage has lost its purpose as there is no minimum qualifying marks earmarked for admission. Even a candidate securing 10 out of 100 can be admitted, if the seats in a particular honours course is vacant, he said.
 
 Singh said meritorious boys and girls passing Class XII examination from CBSE or ICSE who had secured high marks in the entrance test were admitted on the basis of fist and second cut-off lists. But, students with average and below average merit started coming with the declaration of third and fourth cut-off lists. Most of these students coming from rural areas have passed intermediate examination from institutions affiliated to BSEB. 
 
 Patna Science College admission in-charge M P Trivedi said almost 70% students admitted to the undergraduate honours courses in the college have come from rural areas and passed their plus two examination from BSEB. They have secured their admission only when candidates figuring in the guaranteed list published initially did not turn up for admission and the seats remained vacant. He admitted that the enhancement of seats in three-year degree courses is telling upon the quality of education which has so far been the college USP.
 
 Expressing almost similar feelings, Magadh Mahila College principal Dharmshila Prasad said the quality of students being admitted has certainly deteriorated in recent years. With the enhancement of seats, quantity has overpowered quality. She said all the seats in science and commerce courses have been filled up, but a few seats in arts courses are still vacant. The last date for admission to the three-year-degree courses in all the colleges of PU ends on Monday.
 
 
