NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court ordered Delhi government on Friday to   by February 4 the last of Delhi Transport Corporation’s 320 cluster buses parked at the Millennium Bus Depot, which was meant to be a temporary shelter for two weeks for the fleet during the 2010 Commonwealth Games.

 “The   shall not be put to use for any purpose till the National Green Tribunal determined the legality of its existence, proximate to Yamuna,” said a bench of Chief Justice J S Khehar and Justice D Y Chandrachud.
 
 Immediately after the completion of the scam-tainted Commonwealth Games seven years ago, NGO Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan had questioned the selection of the site on the river bed, a stand which was countered by the government terming the location as part of Yamuna floodplains.
 
 The Delhi government had in 2014 decided to vacate the space, which was allotted to DTC for two weeks in 2010 for the duration of the Commonwealth Games. The   had repeatedly extended the deadline asking for modification of the Delhi Master Plan for continued using of the site, failing which DTC would have to vacate. As the Master Plan was not amended, the HC had asked DTC to vacate the site by January 27 last year.
 
 An appeal against the HC order had been pending in the   since then. On Friday, Justices Khehar and Chandrachud asked DTC counsel Santosh Tripathy to bring the head of the organization to the court to record his undertaking for vacation of the parking shelter.
 
 In the afternoon, DTC’s chief general manager appeared before the bench and informed that the corporation was no longer in possession of any part of the depot and that it had handed over the area to the transport department of the Delhi government. 
 
 The bench was informed by the transport department’s counsel Wasim A Qadri that over 300 cluster buses operated by the department were still parked there every night. The bench ordered, “The transport department of Delhi government shall remove the cluster buses from Millennium depot by February 4.”
 
 The SC noted that the NGT was still to decide whether the site was located on the river bed or flood plains of Yamuna. “As and when the matter gets adjudicated, and in case it is found that the site is in the flood plains, the Master Plan could be amended to permit use of the Millennium depot. Subject to such alteration in the Master Plan, the depot shall not be used for any other purpose,” it said.
 
 This drew strong objection from Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan’s counsel  , who argued that a bus depot even on the Yamuna flood plains was environmentally and ecologically hazardous. He requested the court to delete the reference to the amendment of Master Plan to accommodate the bus depot on Yamuna flood plains. The court, however, did not relent.
 
 
