BHOPAL: In more   horror in Madhya Pradesh,   gnawed at the fingers of a newborn at a government-run healthcare centre in   district on Tuesday. 

 While parents are worried about the possibility of infection, doctors maintain they are giving the baby proper medical care.
 
 The baby girl was born to Sunita Bai, a resident of Shivpuri’s Kolaras area, around midnight on May 14. Her family says hospital staff put her on the floor, saying there was no vacant bed in the hospital. On Tuesday, she suddenly spotted gnawing wounds on the child’s little finger. The family says doctors ignored their complaint until they took it up with senior officials. The mother and infant were then shifted to the paediatric unit.
 
 “She has a small injury on the finger but we don’t think it was a rat bite. Anyway, we have referred the baby to the paediatric unit and she is perfectly all right. There is no sign of infection,” said Dr S S Gurjar, assistant superintendent of Shivpuri district hospital. Dr Gurjar, however, admitted that rodents scurry about the hospital. The administration does take precautions from time to time to check the menace, he said. Gurjar denied that the mother and newborn were shifted to the floor. “The mother was on a bed. It is possible that the attendant who came with her was sleeping on the floor with the infant,” he said. 
 
 Shivpuri hospital records 35 to 40 deliveries every day, of which six to seven are C-sections, he said. “We have 84 beds in the gynaecology ward and it’s overloaded. Those who undergo C-section have to be admitted for more than seven days,” he explained.
 
 There have been repeated cases in Madhya Pradesh of rodents, pigs and dogs targeting patients, especially infants, in government hospitals. On March 22, dogs ate the body of a 70-year-old woman who went missing from her hospital bed in Rajgarh and a couple of days ago, ants were seen feeding on a corpse at the gates of MY Hospital in Indore. 
 
 BOX
 
 March 22, 2017: Dogs eat up body of an old woman who had gone missing from her hospital bed in Rajgarh
 
 Jan 7, 2017: Stray dogs mutilate a newborn’s body buried behind hospital in Shahdol 
 
 Dec 22, 2016: Rats nibble the eyes of a corpse at Hamidia hospital in  
 
 Aug 1, 2016: Dogs carry away stillborn in Satna district hospital 
 
 June 18, 2016: Dogs steal infant’s body at MY hospital in Indore.
 
 Jan 3, 2016: Rat nibble corpse in Kasturba Hospital, Bhopal
 
 
 
