HYDERABAD: Recent findings of the global real estate firm   (JLL) identify Hyderabad, along with Pune, as a   for the hotel industry . According to JLL statistics, the two cities “are witnessing   in performance ranging between 12% and 18% after being almost written off by many  

 While this might be music to the ears of new entrants in the sector, industry old-timers aren't amused. Even as they hope for a better 2017, they fear that the ghosts of 2012-13 are unlikely to stop haunting them. It was around this period that the sector hit rock bottom.
 
 “There might have been growth subsequently , but that's only in comparison with our worst phase. So this double-digit growth doesn't mean that the industry is doing well,“ said Ashok Hemrajani, vice-president, Hotels and Restaurants Association of Telangana State. “Right now, the revenue figures of my hotels are on par with what my figures were in 2009-10. While I can draw solace from that, I feel that it'll take another five years for us to be ecstatic about our earnings,“ said Hemrajani, who is also the vice-president of the Minerva Group of Hotels.
 
 Other senior players in the market concur. Pointing out how the sector is dependent on corporate clients, they stressed the need to enhance the tourism and industries sectors to give a fillip to the hotel business. A representation to this effecthas been submitted to the state government, they say .
 
 Some suggest that the occupancy rate, pegged at over 50% in recent findings, is an exaggeration and that in reality it is li mited to 45-46%. In his report, Mandeep Lamba, managing director (hotels), JLL India, puts the average occupancy in hotels across India at 54 to 75%.
 
 “I think we are headed towards better times. There are enough opportunities for growth,“ said Dinesh Rai, general manager of Mercure. At a time when most business houses are eyeing the IT hub, this property came up in Erramanzil Colony in June 2016. “The pharma and PSU clientele is huge. There is also spillover from Hi-Tec City each time there's a mega event at HICC. I think we have entered the market at a good time,“ he said.
 
 
