NAGPUR: ‘You can put food before someone but you can’t make them eat it’ is the analogy veteran film and   made when asked about the cure for depression on Tuesday. Agashe was present at Persistent Systems Auditorium, IT Park where Marathi movie ‘Kaasav’ was screened.

 The movie was directed by Sunil Sukhtankar and Sumitra Bhave, and co-produced by Agashe. 
 
 The movie was screened privately post which Agashe conducted an interactive session with the audience. He also happens to be a psychologist and eloquently discussed clinical depression. The movie elaborated on this subject by putting two characters who have been through depression opposite each other.
 
 ‘Kaasav’ translates to turtle in English and the maternal life of the animal serves as the basis of the story. During nesting season the female turtle lands ashore to lay eggs on a beach hoping that it’s off springs will one day return to the sea.
 
 Janaki (played by Irawati Harshe) provides a metaphorical incubation to a lost Manav (played by Alok Rajwade). Janaki is a divorcee who left her marital home in USA and has come to the coastal village of Devgad, Maharashtra. Having suffered from depression she attempts to find the meaning of life while working for a sea-turtle conservation project.
 
 Meanwhile, Manav manages to escape from the hospital where he was healing after a suicide attempt. He jumps in the back of a small truck with no idea where to go. Janaki finds Manav collapsed on the side of the road and takes him to her home to help him.
 
 Janaki who is still recovering from depression tries to create a close-to-ideal atmosphere for Manav to help him recuperate. The story takes off and becomes a quest of finding oneself for both characters.
 
 The movie ends when Janaki has to leave for the US abruptly leaving behind her residence in the village for Manav. With an initial bout of disappointment Manav accepts reality and the story ends with him watching new born turtles make their way to the sea.
 
 “A person suffering from depression needs the care and support from the people around him. No amount of medicine can cure loneliness if that person is left to his own devices,” said Agashe.
 
