NEW DELHI: The probe into Sunday night’s triple murder case focusses on three suspects—Samunder Khatri,  . While Bawana is in jail, the other two were apparently not at the spot when the crime took place. 

 Those killed include an alleged gangster, Monu Dariyapur alias Bhupender, his friend Arun and ASI Vijay Kumar. Yogesh, another friend of Monu, has not identified the three suspects from the dossiers. It means that the murders were outsourced to   of different gangs, a source said. 
 
 The fact that the shooters were not the usual suspects has made cops probe other angles. The needle of suspicion points to Sonu as only he had a motive to kill Monu so brutally. His recent proximity to Samunder has made the latter a suspect too.
 
 In Sunday’s murders, 9mm weapons were used, which has puzzled the cops. Countrymade carbines are likely to have been used apart from pistols. The cops are trying to find out if any Delhi-based criminal bought a big consignment of weapons recently. 
 
 Bawana is likely to have provided weapons, shooters and logistics to execute the plan on Sunday. The Special Cell will question him in jail in this connection. 
 
 One of Delhi’s top five criminals, Sonu Dariyapur, has been absconding for the past 10 years. He was last arrested in 2007 and jumped parole subsequently. He carries a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head. 
 
 Informers have spotted him in Pune, Bahadurgarh and even in Delhi in the recent past but he has managed to evade arrest, a source said.
 
 “In 2007, Sonu carried a reward of Rs 25,000. He was wanted in a murder case of Punjabi Bagh. An attempt was made to eliminate Monu Dariyapur. Instead, his driver got killed. Sonu passed Class XII in 2000 from the school in his village. He then formed a gang after coming in touch with local musclemen. After the death of Sandeep alias Bhuri in an encounter, he became one of the top gangsters of his area,” an officer recalled. 
 
 In 2006, Monu had married Sonu’s cousin. Following this, their relationship worsened and Sonu vowed to eliminate Monu. He had attacked Monu twice in the past. He killed Monu’s driver and his brother in the second attempt.
 
 
