Indore: The state cyber cell on Sunday busted a gang and arrested a 25-year-old kingpin who has been involved in several cyber crimes for the past few years.

 The state cyber cell had received a lead from Mahasammund, Chhattisgarh crime branch that a youth, Laxman Yadav (25), a resident of Annupark in Uttar Pradesh had committed many crimes in Chhattisgarh and was currently pursuing MCA from a private college in Bhopal. His team member Sandeep was also involved in various crimes.
 
 Based on this information, cyber cell along with Indore STF started a search operation and arrested a few gang members near Mhow-Manpur in a passing vehicle who were on their way from Mumbai to Indore.
 
 “The accused has been arrested. He is currently enrolled in a course at a private college in Bhopal. He accepted to having committed over two dozen crimes along with his gang members. After duping a man in Mahasammund in Chhattisgarh, the gang members had fled to Daman and Diu where Laxman stayed with his girlfriend for a while. He then moved to Maharashtra and Gujarat,” Jitendra Singh, state cyber cell superintendent of police.
 
 He added that the accused and gang members are very high-tech and use objects like card validators, card number revealers, etc. They are very fond of high-end mobile phones.
 
 Police claimed that their modus operandi included venturing inside ATMs and getting card details and using them on e-commerce websites.
 
 Meanwhile, in another cyber fraud case in Juni Indore area, a 70-year-old man was duped of Rs 1.67 lakh after he gave details of his debit card on call.
 
 The complainant identified as Mohommad Wasir Khan, resident of Nandanvan Colony had registered a complaint with the crime branch following which it was transferred to Juni Indore police station. The complainant is also paralyzed.
 
 “We have registered a case in the matter and investigations have been initiated. It has come to the fore that he had received a call and gave all his debit card details,” said Dilip Gangrade, Juni Indore police station in-charge.
 
 
