CHENNAI: Police officers probing the   and burglary have been questioning key accused,  , about a certain ‘will’ left behind by former chief minister   and a bunch of property documents kept at the  

 Kodanad witnessed a gang of at least 11interlopers coming in three vehicles on the midnight of April 23 and attacking the two security guards at gatees 9 and 10. While one guard,  , died in the attack, another guard, Krishna Bahadur Thapa, survived with injuries. At least three rooms of Jayalaltihaa and her now-jailed friend VK Sasikala were targeted. The room windows were smashed open and valuables stolen.
 
 Though police officially acknowledge the theft of only five wrist watches and a crystal showpiece, they kept inquiring about the ‘will’ and ‘property deeds’ with Sayan, who was injured in an 
  in Kerala on Saturday, a source said.His wife Vinupriya and five year old daughter Neethu were killed in the accident, which came barely six hours after his friend and key accused in the Kodanad heist, Kanagaraj, 
  in Tamil Nadu at about 11.30pm on Friday.
 
 “Sayan is not in a fit state to be questioned, as per doctor's opinion. We will apprehend him formally in the Om Bahadur murder case and inquire him,“ a senior police officer said. Old timers associated with Kodanad Tea Estate for long years, have told police in their statements that a suitcase kept in one of these rooms contained Jayalalithaa's `will' and other property documents. “Sayan will be interrogated if the gang had targeted the house to steal the `will' as `instructed' by brain behind the whole chain of incidents,“ police said.
 
 Some residents of the estate have told police that contents of the suitcases and other valuables inside those rooms were known only to Jayalalithaa, Sasikala and few others. Perhaps due to familiarity that Kanagaraj and Sayan had with sprawling bungalow, the gang targeted and broke open only these personal rooms of Jayalaltihaa and Sasikala, police said.
 
 As Kodanad heist, murder of the guard, accidents in two states and the fact that almost all the culprits are from another state, the case could soon be transferred to CBI for further investigation, said officials. Tamil Nadu director-general of police T K Rajendran, however, told the mediapersons after inaugurating a programme at   in Chennai, ruled out probe by central agencies, saying: “The investigations are going on the right track. There is no need for it to be transferred to CBCID.“
 
