JALANDHAR/PHILLAURl:   visited  , the most influential dera of   in  , late on Saturday after addressing three rallies across Punjab. He talked to dera head Sant Niranjan Dass and other members of the management in the presence of some local Congress leaders.

 Later, a closed-door meeting was also held, in which apart from Rahul, party's Punjab affairs in charges Harish Chaudhary and Asha Kumari, former SAD MLA Avinsah Chander, who recently resigned from the Akali Dal and assembly, were also present.
 
 Other Congress leader, including Jalandhar MP Chaudhary Santokh Singh, were left out. Rahul stayed at the dera for around 45 minutes. Sources said during the meeting, Rahul asked questions about the dera, its history and the past heads. He also sought blessings of Niranjan Dass.
 
 Chander had quit SAD after being dropped from party candidates' list. He wanted to join the Congress but was not inducted in the party after several leaders said they could face embarrassing questions as he was facing a probe by the Enforcement Directorate in the synthetic drug-racket case.
 
 Sources in the party said Chander was extending support to the Congress to ensure SAD's defeat at two seats ­ Kartarpur, which he represented in his first stint as an MLA, and Phillaur, which he represented in the current assembly.
 
 Dera Ballan has a big following in the Ravidassia community, which has highest population in the Doaba region. While traditionally most of the Dera followers had been voting for the Congress in the past without any directions from its religious leaders, in the 2012 state elections political observers felt that they voted for BSP as they were angry with SAD after the killing of deputy head Sant Ramanand in May 2009 at a temple in Vienna.Dera followers' vote shifting to BSP proved beneficial for SAD, which won most of the reserved seats in Doaba. Of the eight reserved seats in four districts of Doaba, Congress won only from Banga.
 
 
 
 Addressing a rally in Phillaur, Rahul Gandhi announced that if the Congress will come to power, a university named after BR Ambedkar would be established in Doaba region. He also attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying that he was speaking against corruption but in Punjab he would make Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal to sit along side him and then seek votes for him when everybody knew that he was responsible for corruption in Punjab.
 
