HYDERABAD: While the latest spate of seizure of drug consignments has only hinted at the strong network in the city, it's this very network that sucks back at least five of the drug addicts who attempt to come out of the net. With nearly 5 to 10 of 'addiction' cases landing at the psychiatrists' desks being lured back to the murky world within their lifetime and at least three going back within a year itself, the 'drug network' tries hard never to lose its clientèle.

 Usually no addict willingly approaches a psychiatrist but are usually dragged by their parents. Whether they can ever call it quits depends on the 'network they have'.
 
 “Each junkie is a potential consumer for the network and they go to great extents to retain them. From coaxing them with free supply to ensuring that their friends who are into drugs keep them company, it can get murky. Whether an addict can quit or not depends on the environment they go back to. Unfortunately , in most cases, we find that the abuser has 3-4 friends who are already into it,“ said Dr Bharath Kumar Reddy, consultant psychiatrist, Apollo Hospitals.
 
 “Often parents do not know where to start. When they go to doctors, they suggest putting them in rehab centres. Also drug abusers have a secondary diagnosis like depression or anxiety. If that's not treated, there are chances of the abuser going back to drugs,“ said Dr K Prashanth, consultant psychopathologist, Yashoda Hospital. Although there is no spe cific rule to treat addiction, physical as well as psychological impact of each drug varies depending on the drug and frequency of consumption. For example, Class A drugs like LSD, MDMA, cocaine, opium are the more troublesome ones causing serious psychological impact.
 
 Marijuana is the relatively easier one to get away from.Those addicted to marijuanacannabis tend to get very aggressive, euphoric and go into mood swings. LSD induces hallucinations.
 
 “Patients taking MDMA have memory problems. Red eyes, dilated pupils and shivering are indications of cocaine and opium abuse. Sudden weight loss, nosebleeds, tremors and fatigue are common signs to be looked out for,“ said Dr Srikanth Reddy, consultant neurosurgeon , Maxcure hospitals.
 
