NEW DELHI: A hero of numerous boxing bouts,   gold medallist in 1998   is battling cancer, with 70% of his liver removed. And he has had to sell his flat, one that he had got for winning the gold, for his treatment so far, with his chemotherapy yet to begin. 

 Dingko, 38, was forced to sell his home after the financial assistance provided by sports authorities failed to cover his medical expenses. He got Rs 45,000 from the  , while the Sports Authority of India, for which he works, pitched in with Rs 50,000. “I had to sell my home for Rs 30 lakh. The Manipur government had gifted me this flat after I’d won at Bangkok,” Dingko said. Today, the retired pugilist’s temporary residence in Delhi is his friend’s two-bedroom flat in Shahpur Jat. 
 
 “The treatment is very expensive. We’ve spent Rs 10 lakh so far on the surgery, and waiting for chemotherapy to begin. That’s bound to cost more. We do need financial help,” said Dingko’s wife Ngangom Gababai. But riding out the rough phase of his life, Dingko, who is with the SAI’s Imphal centre, said he bears no grudge against anybody. “Authorities have done a lot to promote boxing,” he said, adding wistfully, “but they could take better care of their athletes.” 
 
 After the couple return to Manipur, they plan to shift to their ancestral village in Sekta Mayai, 20km from SAI training centre, where Singh coaches aspiring boxers. “I will continue coaching once I return. My earlier flat was minutes away from SAI premises. It might be difficult to travel, but I will not quit work,” said 2013 Padma Shri awardee. 
 
 Sports journalist Harpal Bedi, who had covered the 1998 Asian Games for UNI, told TOI that Dingko brought Northeast into the sporting mainstream with his gold winning effort. “We’d not won a single gold in boxing for 16 years until Dingko won. Nobody rooted for him since boxing was not our game; hockey and wrestling were. I hope this time the people of India root for him and help him get his life back in order,” Bedi said.
 
