CHENNAI: Thousands of patients at   suffered in silence as doctors continued to protest for most of Friday, a day after a few visitors attacked their colleagues.
The protest was called off in the evening, after the government accepted most of the demands. By then, patients and their relatives had endured a lot. Some wards did not have duty doctors or nurses, while intensive care units were managed by nurses. The cubicles of medical ff in some wards were de staff in some wards were deserted and patients waited helplessly. “Usually, there is a doctor in the ward day and night. There has been none since Thursday night. On Friday morning, a doctor came, heard our grievances and left after telling us a strike is on,“ said Usha, a resi dent of Red Hills. Her husband Mohan was admitted to the hospital a week ago for a kidney ailment.
 
 Sundaramurthy of   in Vellore district was wandering along a corridor, pushing the wheelchair his wife Radha was in, not knowing where to go. “The treatment is slow. There is no doctor to explain the pro gress in the treatment. Only a few nurses are around. We have been asked to get a test done but none to tell us where to go,“ he said.
 
 Earlier, PG doctors joined students who had been protesting on the the   premises for close to a week demanding the release of a senior professor held in a Lucknow prison. PG doctors in other government hospitals too staged protests in support.
 
 In a day-long meeting, with health secretary  , hospital authorities and policemen, doctors put forth a charter of demands and around 13 were accepted. They include permanent security, strict action against outsiders resorting to verbal abuse or violence, CCTV cameras in main wards, streamlining issuance of visitor and patient attendant pass, awareness campaigns on the   Srvices Personnel and Service Institutions Act, 2008.
 
 After the meeting, Dr Radhakrishnan said, “We will do a review and implement some, including installation of CCTV cameras, in 15 days.“
 
