SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh high court asked the state’s police force on Wednesday to hand over the ongoing probe into the of death of forest guard Hoshiar Singh in Karsog, Mandi district, to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). Court was not happy with the way police was conducting the investigation.

 A division bench of acting chief justice Sanjay Karol and justice   directed the CBI to take over the investigation. Last month, the court had asked the state government if it had any objection to the CBI probing the death.
 
 Sources said the matter was discussed in the state cabinet and it was decided that the case should not be handed over to CBI, as CID had almost completed the probe and police were able to collect evidences. Even state DGP, through an affidavit, apprised the court of investigation nearing completion and that challan would be presented in the court for trial. 
 
 Hoshiar Singh (22) a resident of   village under Thunag tehsil of Mandi district was serving in forest department as guard and was posted at Katanda beat in Mandi district and was reportedly missing since June 5. A police team accompanied by some local people had found the body of Hoshiar Singh hanging upside down from a tree at   forest, near Seri Katandha, on June 9 and on same day an FIR on a statement by Paras Ram, uncle of deceased. The uncle of deceased had doubted that his nephew might have been murdered by forest mafias.
 
 Investigation had revealed the presence of poisonous substance inside his body. The combination of insecticide containing Chlorphrifos (organophosphorus compound) and Cypermethrin (pyrethroid compound) which is highly toxic for human being has been detected in the viscera and blood of the deceased Hoshiar Singh. The same content was also found in the recovered bottle from scene of crime.
 
 Last month on August 20, police had managed to arrest the four accused who were absconding since the case was registered. All four accused belonged to same family and were allegedly involved in the illicit felling of trees as their photographs were clicked by deceased forest guard in his mobile. Earlier, police had arrested six people including one block officer (forest), one forest guard and four others.
 
 
