GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat sought to project itself as a bright spot amid the prevailing economic gloom post-demonetisation with investment intentions or memoranda of understanding signed at the eighth edition of   Global Summit (VGGS) touching a record 25,578 as curtains fell on the biennial business blitzkrieg at the Mahatma Mandir on Thursday.

 The number of MoUs signed this summit was close to 3,000 more than the 2015 summit and the committed investment is likely to cross Rs 30 lakh crore.
 
 However, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel refused to put any figures to the investment intentions. This was an aberration from the previous summit when then chief minister   had declared that the state had attracted Rs 25 lakh crore investment intentions.
 
 The three-day event partnered by 12 countries justified the theme `Connecting India to the world' as 2,743 inter national delegates from nearly 100 countries participated.
 
 “One of the biggest take away from this year's VGGS is that all the foreign delegates would act as brand ambassadors of Gujarat in their respective countries,“ chief minister Vijay Rupani said, addressing the valedictory function.
 
 Rupani also attempted to silence the critics who often question the actual realisation of MoUs and said even as 80% of them are being implemented, questions are being asked about the remaining 20% of those that have not fructified.
 
 “This is a good thing. I welcome this criticism and I promise that we will do everything possible to realize those 20% too,“ he said.
 
 Ironically, the maximum number of MoUs came from the micro, small and medium enterprises (18,533) that have been worst hit by demonetisation and seen thousands being laid off due to cash crisis.
 
 Defence minister Manohar Parrikar, who was the chief guest at the valedictory function, invoked Swami Vivekananda on his 154 th birth anniversary and said that Vibrant Gujarat was a real tribute to him as it would result in massive employment for the youths.
 
 “Today is the National Youth Day and you have succeeded in generating lakhs of new job opportunities for our youth in Gu jarat. This is one area which I think needs to be followed up by others,“ he said.
 
 Moreover, it was the first time since the inception of Vibrant Gujarat in 2003 that two Muslim countries -Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates that are among the richest in the world -actively participated in the event and expressed keen desire to forge business ties with Gujarat.
 
 Parrikar praised Gujarat for its innovative, ease of business, progressive and forward looking approach. “It can become an important hub for defence manufacturing. There are varieties of products being developed by defence and Gujarat gover nment can be interested in aerospace technology,“ he said.
 
 VGGS 2017 also saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is often eulogized by industry captains and international guests at every summit, got the biggest compliment when several global leaders sought to see him take centrestage internationally.
 
