JAIPUR/JAISALMER: Sleuths of state intelligence agencies have claimed that  , who was detained from a   on Saturday night, passed important   of   to his handlers in Pakistan.

 Sleuths have found out that Sadiq visited Pakistan thrice and had close ties with Pakistan’s   (ISI). “We have seized several espionage-related documents from him. Similarly, five phones and several SIM cards were also found in his bag,” sources said.
 
 Sources added that the suspected ISI agent shared espionage details in return for small considerations, “He has relatives in Pakistan, the ISI must have facilitated his stay and travel in that country, to return the favour, he provided them information and details about Indian troops,” an intelligence official said.
 
 The officials told TOI that Sadiq would be taken to Jaipur for joint interrogation. “He was in contact with another Pakistani spy Nandu Maharaj who was arrested by us a few months ago. He is suspected to be a part of the sleeping cell module which operates across western Rajasthan and provides information to their handlers in Pakistan,” the official said.
 
 The border intelligence outposts had put Sadiq under surveillance and detained him when he was planning to cross the border on Saturday evening. The sleuths in last six months nabbed seven suspected ISI agents who allegedly shared confidential information with their Pakistani counterparts.
 
 The cops said that they investigating and more searches would be conducted since they suspect that Sadiq was in touch with other members of the sleeping cell modules.
 
 “We have revamped our counter-intelligence operations across the state in last six months by focusing on human intelligence network and motivating our officers posted at remote locations,” said DIG, security, HGR Suhasaa.
 
 The intelligence agencies are currently quizzing the suspected ISI agent about the amount and details of information he shared with his handlers across the border. “These people were lured by Pakistan for their own means. ISI facilitated their travel to Pakistan so that people like Sadiq Khan could visit their relatives there,” an official said.
 
 Meanwhile, the intelligence officials have been asked to keep a close watch over suspicious people who are spotted around strategic locations in Jodhpur, Barmer and Jaisalmer.
 
 
