MUMBAI: For the first time since they came on board following the   orders, the Committee of Administrators ( ) -appointed to supervise   administration - called for the Indian cricket board's member participation agreement (MPA) with the International Cricket Council (ICC) to be viewed in detail.

 The decision to study the MPA has been taken in the backdrop of ICC's board's February 4 meeting, which called for a flurry of policy changes in finance and governance.
 
 The MPA, drafted by the BCCI when N Srinivasan was at the helm of affairs, protects India's rights in ICC related to the 2014 resolution over terms of revenue distribution.
 
 It is learned that COA member Vikram Limaye encouraged the rest of the administrators to look into the agreement. In a meeting held in New Delhi on Friday, the COA also invited Gopal Sankaranarayanan, secretary to the Lodha Committee, to attend. BCCI CEO   and his colleague RP Shah were also present.
 
 Apart from the MPA, a few other topics also came up for a detailed discussion in the COA meeting that lasted close to six hours. The administrators agreed to approve the pending amount of Rs 240,000 due to the Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) for the National Cricket Academy (NCA) land, which was reported by TOI.
 
 While the COA could take credit for “resolving” the KIADB, “it is the BCCI joint secretary ( , now acting secretary) and the treasurer (Amitabh Chaudhary) who first acted on the KIADB issue,“ a source in the know of things said.
 
 Among other important issues discussed, the COA decided to bring in law firm Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas as the Advocate on Record (AoR) for all court matters going forward. Alongside that, the administrators also discussed the matter of conflict of interest in cricket in detail. BCCI's office-bearers, who were not invited to this meeting, were left fuming that the AoR has been replaced. “It is a very wrong decision because it stops the BCCI from even standing in front of the court and presenting its case.
 
 “The constitution of the BCCI is absolutely clear that the board can and will be sued in the name of the secretary. The SC order for the administrators is to supervise the administration of BCCI, not to supervise the BCCI. The constitution of the BCCI has not been suspended by the court, it is still very much in place,” an office bearer said.
 
 Meanwhile, audit and tax consulting company Deloitte was also called at the meeting to give a presentation of their report on state associations, which the COA went through in minute detail.
 
