PATNA: Damian Anushka was honoured with Sr Mary   for her stellar performance in the   as well as co-curricular activities by the city’s   at a function organised by the school on its campus on Tuesday.

 The award entitles Anushka, currently studying in Class XI, to full scholarship till Class XII. 
 
 The function was organised to mark the St Julie’s Feast for the children of   as the school for less-privileged children is celebrating its 28th establishment day. On the occasion, the sisters recalled the contribution of St Julie Billiart, who founded the Congregation of the Sisters of   de Namur in 1804.
 
 The school for less-privileged children of the society has about 510 students and 15 teachers. 
 
 Notre Dame principal Sr Mary Jessy gave away the trophies and certificates to the meritorious students of Class X and XII. Aishani Shrivastava, Amrita Saroj, Ankita Bharati, Tuhi Saumya, Aashana Kumari, Rashmi Sarraf, Muskan Poddar, Priyam Surbhi, Aditi Patel, Anushree, Amisha Sharanand and Ayushi Aishwarya were awarded for scoring well in Class XII exam.
 
 Altogether 56 students were awarded for scoring 10 CGPA in Class X exam. They included Aakansha Jayaswal, Aakriti, Aditi Abhijit, Angela Roy, Ankita Kiran, Arshneet Haneja, Gauri Dayal, Khushi Datri, Maria Iqbal, Nancy, Nandni Sinha, Rizwana Khanam, Shivani Narayan, Svetlana Sethi, Yati Ranjan, Aditi Mallick, Ahaana Singh, Amyra Singh, Aranya, Bhawya Sinha, Maryam Raza Khan and Neha Verma.
 
 The awarded 10CGPA scorers also included Reeva Raag, Samriddhi Singh, Shreya, Soumya Shambhavi, Warisha Ismail, Aastha Srivastava, Aayushi Prasad, Aditi Anand, Aishwarya Ghosh, Anjali Mishra, Ankita Kishore, Nuha Rahman, Preetika Verma, Shabdika, Sheeba Akhtar, Shryea Sajal, Smriti Snehil, Sneha, Alisha Mathur, Anushka, Anushka Choudhary, Esha, Fuhar Suman, Grishma Sahay, Khyati Shekhar, Kumari Ruchika, Prache Pragya, Pranaty Ghosh, Priyamvada Bhanger, Puja Kumari, Sairina, Shambhavi Sinha, Shreya Thakur and Sonal Swaraj.
 
 Organic rice transplantation fest organised: At least 100 students of Delhi Public School, Don Bosco Academy, May Flower, S R Vidyapeeth, A N College and St Xavier’s College participated in the annual organic rice transplantation festival at Tarumitra Ashram on Tuesday.
 
 The programme started with a PowerPoint presentation on cultivation. Students were also told about how rice seedlings are planted.
 
 Leigh University (US) students Angie Rizzo and Robert Smith also joined the city students for the cultivation work which was supervised by Margaret Molomoo. Many teachers from participating schools and colleges, volunteer Shashi Darshan and Fr Robert Athickal were among those present on the occasion.
 
