Chennai: For the first time ever, city residents will consume rainwater collected in stone   sites. Hit hard by one of the worst droughts in the last century, Metrowater, after exhausting all options, has decided to source drinking   from 22 quarries at Sikkarayapuram (  district), located right next to the   reservoir, one of the city’s four drinking water sources.

 Work on laying a 2.5-km pipeline is in progress at the quarry sites in Sikkarayapuram at a cost of `11.8 crore. According to contractors handling the work, the pipeline will be laid by the end of May. The pipelines will snake through the 22 abandoned quarries and enter a trench under the city’s Outer Ring Road to reach the Chembarambakkam reservoir. Water from these quarries will be pumped and transferred through the pipeline to a treatment plant at Chembarambakkam
 
 before being distributed to city residents.
 
 Experts agree that the December 2015 floods in   were a man-made disaster. As the city’s waterways were turned into plots of land for construction, excess water from the Chembarambakkam reservoir flooded the southern parts of the city. Man-made stone quarries have now come to the rescue. Over the years, the quarries have collected rainwater that runs 50-foot deep, measuring 3,000 million litres which is equal to six days of water supply in Chennai. 
 
 Experts estimate that the city lost three years worth of water supply to the sea during the December 2015 floods.
 
 Less than a kilometre from the quarry sites at Sikkarayapuram, residents say that groundwater is unfit for drinking. 
 
 The quarry sites though are not
 
 affected by the groundwater quality as they lie about a hundred feet below ground-level and are surrounded by impenetrable rock layers. "The groundwater that we draw is not fit for cooking. We use it to wash vessels. But water in the quarries is fresh and ready to drink," says tea stall owner K Kumar.
 
 This latest water source may bring brief respite to residents who do not get enough supply from Metrowater and depend on borewells that tap groundwater. But the resource is scarce due to the failure of the northeast monsoon last year. Last month, Metrowater had stated in a press note that groundwater in the city is fast depleting and requested residents to use water judiciously. The city’s four reservoirs are currently 95% empty and are set to dry out by the end of May.
 
 
