MANGALURU:   offered a special prayer on Friday seeking restoration of peace in   Several prominent citizens also called for peace and harmony in the district A special prayer heralding the message of brotherhood was offered in all the masjids following a direction from   District United Jamaat khazi Sayyed Fazal Koya Thangal Koorath and Udupi, Hassan,   United Jamaat Khazi Bekal Ibrahim Musliyar.

 In a joint statement, the khazis expressed concern over the untoward incidents in the district. “The entire society is under anxiety because of misdeeds of a few miscreants. Police have been taking a strict action against those miscreants. Hence, people should cooperate with the police to restore peace in the district. After namaz, masjids should deliver a message of brotherhood preached by Prophet Mohammed. Special prayers also should be offered for peace,“ Khazis said in a release.
 
 Meanwhile, the members of various like-minded organisations appealed to people to establish cordial relationships with all sections of the society and work together in harmony to build a strong nation. Prominent citizens, too, called for peace. Narendra Nayak, president, Federation of Indian Rationalist Associations; writers Sara Abbobakar, Mandd Sobhann Gurkar, Eric Ozeiro; DSS (Prof B Krishnappa faction) state organizing conveners M Devadas and Raghu Ekkar; DSS (Ambedkar group) district organizing convener Vishukumar; Citizen's Forum for Mangalore Development co-cordinator Vidya Dinker; Dayanath Kotian of Forum for Justice; Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha state secretary Ravi Kiran Poonacha; Bantwal taluk president Premanath Shetty K; Nagarika Seva Trust president Somanath Nayak; and Mangalore Today editor VU George appealed to people to keep away from forces that create rift between the communities.
 
 “Vested interests belonging to communal, casteist organizations and political parties have been trying to create differences between human beings in the name of religion to serve their own nefarious ends.They have been creating havoc in public life by making incendiary statements,“ members of the group appealed.
 
 
 
 'Let me live in Karavali', an apolitical forum involving leaders of Hindu, Muslim and Christian communities will be formed, said social activist MG Hegde. “A campaign to set up an apolitical forum has been started and we have received a huge response. The clashes that we witness today are not because of communal rift between Hindus and Muslims. Those are all frictions between organisations,“ he said.
 
 
 
 
 Vajradehi Mutt seer Sri Rajashekharananda Swami, who is also the honorary president of Hindu Rakshana Samiti, has claimed to have an “exclusive“ clue relating to RSS worker Sharath Madivala's murder. He said he will reveal it only if the NIA takes over the probe.
 
 The seer said on Friday that an NIA office should be set up in Mangaluru and that a delegation will soon meet governor Vajubhai Vala over it. “Hired goondas threw stones during Sharath's funeral procession. Police are not taking steps to arrest them. We can never expect justice from this government,“ he said.
 
 VHP members, meanwhile, alleged that SDPI leaders were behind Sharath's murder. VHP Mangaluru region secretary G Gopal said the murderers of Sharath could be easily traced if police arrest SDPI leaders. He alleged that the state's Congress government was favouring SDPI to appease Muslims.
 
