MADURAI: The government has been directed to get instruction from the Madurai city police commissioner on a plea seeking to hold indefinite   from July 27 demanding to make Tamil as Madras high court language.

 Justice S S Sundar of the Madurai bench of the Madras high court gave this direction on a plea filed by advocate   stating that the struggle committee for Tamil in high court has been struggling since March to hold indefinite strike, but the police denied permission citing one or another reason. 
 
 The petitioner told that people in Tamil Nadu have been demanding Tamil as high court language for decades.
 
 Article 348 (2) of the Indian Constitution enables to make official language of a state as a language of high court. Based on it, the states – Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and  , made their officials languages as their high court languages. The Tamil Nadu on January 1, 2006 passed a resolution in legislative assembly demanding to make Tamil as Madras high court language and sent the same to the central government. The central government had to send the necessary file to the President of India for getting consent. Contrary to it, it sent the file to the Supreme Court seeking its consultancy, which is violation of Article 348 (2) of the Indian Constitution and Section 7 of the Indian Official Language Act.
 
 The central government, which has no role in making state’s official language as the high court language rejected Tamil Nadu’s request. The Parliamentary standing committee on law and justice headed by Sudharsan Natchiyappn in 2015 recommended that scheduled languages other than English might be permitted to be used in the high courts. The committee also said that the consultation process with judiciary is not required as the constitutional provisions are amply clear on the use of scheduled languages in the high courts.
 
 The central government is denying constitutional right of non-Hindi speaking states citing the rejection of the Supreme Court. Demanding the central government to adopt proper procedure in making Tamil as high court language, there were many protests in the state. 
 
 To conduct indefinite hunger strike from March 23 last near world Tamil Sangam in Madurai, the petitioner sought police permission. But, police denied permission and adopted a practice of avoiding the petitioner. Hence, it was necessary to direct the police to permit the indefinite hunger strike from July 27 in any place in Madurai, the petitioner prayed. 
 
