PANCHKULA: The dust has not even settled on the murder in Gurugram's   when another case has come to light in  , Haryana, where a nine-year-old boy was badly beaten up and locked up in the toilet of a government school on Tuesday. An   was registered on Wednesday.

 Two unidentified schoolmates of the Class III student are believed to have locked him up in the toilet of Saarthak School, a state government-run model school in Sector 12 A. Police officers registered a case of wrongful confinement against the school administration on the complaint of the boy's father, a migrant labourer who lives in Abhaypur village in Panchku la's industrial area.
 
 “Our son is still in trauma,“ the father has said in his complaint. “He is complaining about pain in his back and head.“ Although his condition is stated to be stable, sources said that he was in a state of shock.
 
 The boy has told the police that he was hit on the head with a stick by one of the two boys who had assaulted him after which he has no memory of how he reached the toilet. Motive behind the attack is not known yet. Investigations by the cops revealed that one of the teachers sent the boy's classmates to look for him when he did not return to after the recess. His classmates found him lying on the floor of the toilet half conscious and his clothes soiled.
 
 The boy's father has alleged that when his wife went to the school to pick up their son, she was surprised to find that his clothes had been changed. When she questioned the authorities, they showed her his uniform which had been soiled with excrement and vomit. They had given the boy clothes of watchman's son. They , however, did not tell her why all this happened. The father has also alleged that school authorities were trying to cover up the case as they had refused to show him   footage claiming that cameras had been recently installed and were not working properly .
 
 “On Wednesday , we approached the school authorities.None of the staff gave us a satisfactory answer. They did not allow us to inspect the CCTV footage of the area around the toilet,“ the father said in his complaint.
 
 Inspector Satish Kumar, SHO of Sector 14 police station said the boy's statement has been recorded before the duty magistrate. “We have also had him medically examined. Investigations are on. We will visit the school on Thursday as well. We are expecting to get the medico legal report of the child.“
 
