JAIPUR: A day after police arrested a director of Bal Niketan School, a private school and teacher for the alleged gang-rape and abortion of an 18-year-old girl in a village near Ajeetgarh town of Sikar district of the state, the state education department on Wednesday suspended the recognition of the school. A notification in this regard was issued by the director, secondary school education, Bikaner. The district education officer has also been asked to help the parents who wish to shift their children to other schools.

 The girl is undergoing treatment at government hospital in Jaipur. The victim's parents in their complaint alleged that the two accused who are in police custody had been sexually assaulting her for some days after calling her to school on the pretext of extra classes. When she became pregnant, the duo allegedly made her undergo an abortion at a clinic in Shahpura town. 
 
 “The recognition of the school has been suspended. We have also been ask to facilitate the parents who wish to shift their children to other nearby schools,” said Dayal Singh Yadav, district education officer, Sikar on Wednesday. 
 
 In the order Nath Mal, Director, secondary education, Bikaner has also authorized the district education officer to release the transfer certificates of the children whose parents are willing to shift them in other nearby schools.
 
 The two accused  , the director of the school and teacher Jagat Singh Gurjar were nabbed by the police after the parents of the girl on Sunday had filed an FIR that their daughter was raped for over two months by the duo on the pretext of extra classes.
 
 On the reports saying the girl was raped only by teacher while the director only supported his act, Surendra Kumar Dixit, additional SP, Sikar, said, “It is a matter of investigation. Both are arrested and are in our custody for two days.” 
 
 Meanwhile, an angry mob of villagers continued to protest against the school administration and have been demanding to shut down the school as soon as possible. 
 
 
