LAMBI: Lambi proved to be the saving grace for SAD despite losing power as the party’s biggest face,  , retained his seat here. He won from Lambi assembly constituency in Muktsar district for the fifth straight term by 22,770 votes.

 Lambi had turned out to be the mother of all battles with former CM Capt Amarinder Singh challenging Badal in his bastion and AAP fielding its shoe-thrower former Delhi MLA Jarnail Singh.
 
 After Amarinder had announced to take on Badal from Lambi, the constituency had come into sharp focus. Going by the stiff opposition, Badal too spent eight days in Lambi and had to face anger of people as in Ratta Khera village, Lambi resident Gurbachan Singh threw a shoe at him in January. The incident was seen as result of sheer anger among people against the Akali government, which had failed to solve the incidents of sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib. People’s discontent in Lambi, where lot of funds were disbursed by Badal during his hundreds of sangat darshan (community audience) programmes, was more pronounced against his close aides.
 
 “We are feeling like the losers even in Badal’s victory as now Lambi will forfeit the special treatment it was getting in his regime,” said Lambi resident Gurmukh Singh.
 
 Badal led from the first round of the counting of votes and maintained his lead till the result was declared after 22 rounds. Describing his victory as that of people, Badal said, “A lot of marauders came to Lambi to trounce me, but the people of the area never trusted any of them and reposed their faith in the son of the soil. I am for Lambi and it is like an extended family to me.”
 
 After leaving Gidderbaha assembly constituency to his now estranged nephew Manpreet Singh Badal, the Akali patriarch had started contesting from Lambi in 1997 and won the seat by 28,728 votes, by 23,929 votes in 2002, by 9,187 votes in 2007. In 2012, he defeated his nearest rival by 24,739 votes.
 
 “We will sit back and look where we failed in containing Badal,” said Congress’s Muktsar district president Gurmeet Singh Khuddian.
 
 
