COIMBATORE: Leading hotel chains and foodies in Coimbatore have joined youngsters who demand a ban on Coco Cola and  . 

 On Friday, RHR Hotel declared officially that in support of the student’s protest against the ban on   and to protect the tradition of Tamil Nadu, it would not sell   and Pepsi. 
 
 RHR Hotel director Gurusamy Sundaravel said, “Multinational companies have created a huge water scarcity and health issues among the citizens. To show our solidarity to the farmers and as well for the youngsters we wanted to ban it. We will create alternatives for these soft drinks with affordable fruit juices and healthy drinks.”
 
 Another hotel that joined this was Kuchi and Cream. Several other restaurants have also promised to implement   of the soft drinks very soon.
 
 A social media group, Kovai foodies with its 5,000 members has also come out to say that they would support the boycott of the soft drinks. 
 
 They have also urged the hoteliers in the city to take it up. 
 
 Lalitha Gautam, the founder of the group, said after she put up a post asking if foodies and hoteliers could support this ban, she got more than five replies from hotel owners. 
 
 “It is a great movement started by the students of Tamil Nadu. Our parents raised us in a different manner with native food and healthy drinks. But due to privatisation and corporatisation, our lifestyle has changed. We have slowly moved to fast food and soft drinks as they are easily available. We need to change this now. This movement has been an eye-opener for us,” she said. 
 
 The group plans to host a cooking competition in February as part of the Coimbatore Vizha celebration and promote native food. “We will also meet the hotel owners and see if this ban could be extended to all hotels,” said Lalitha. 
 
 A wholesale shop owner, Manu, has also pledged not to supply Coke and Pepsi to any outlet now on. Balaji Ramakrishnan of Dhonnai biriyani house near Hopes said, he had not been selling soft drinks since 2011. 
 
 “I come from an agricultural background and I understand how these companies have ruined our water sources. My native is Lalapet in Karur district and farmers continue to suicide there due to the lack of water. This is not just for the jallikkattu protest but since five years, we are following this policy. I do not want that extra money,” he said.
 
 Several cafés in Sai Baba colony, R S Puram and other parts of the city have also decided to implement the ban.
 
 
