SURAT: The Diamond City’s economy is set to get a booster dose as tens of thousands of Dawoodi Bohras have started arriving from across the country and abroad to participate in the birthday celebrations, religious events and mass marriages that will be organised in the presence of His Holiness Dr  , the 53rd Dai-Al-Mutlaq.

 Office-bearers of the   (DBJTS) said the spiritual leader of the community arrived in the city on Sunday. He received a massive welcome at the Surat railway station. His Holiness Dr Syedna Muffadal saheb will be staying in the Diamond City for around 12 days and will celebrate his birthday with community members on January 18. 
 
 Spokeperson of DBJTS, Kaiser Morkes, told TOI that more than two lakh   from across the country and abroad will be visiting in the city in the next 12 days for a ‘deedar’ of His Holiness, Dr Syedna. “There will be a big jalsa on January 18 when his birthday will be celebrated. The presence of lakhs of people on the occasion will in a way boost Surat’s economy after demonitisation,” Morkes said.
 
 He further said that Surat is known for its diamonds and textiles. “The members of the Bohra community will be purchasing dress material, burquas, jewellery, diamonds and would also dine in restaurants,” Morkes said.
 
 Most big and small hotels, and guesthouses in the city have been booked till January 22. Even the rent of the apartments in and around Zampa Bazaar — the centre of attraction for Dr Syedna’s birthday celebrations — have doubled.
 
 “Most of the Bohras in Zampa Bazaar and surrounding areas rent their apartments and houses to those visiting from outside. The visitors are ready to pay Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 rent for their stay close to  , where Dr Sayedna attends all the community events,” said  , a resident of Zampa Bazaar.
 
 A hotel owner said that Dr Syedna’s arrival is a good omen for the city’s demonitisation-hit economy. “Hotels and guesthouses have been booked in advance by Dawoodi Bohras who will come to participate in the religious ceremony,” the hotel owner said. The restaurant business, too, is likely to pick up as Dawoodi Bohras like typical Gujarati dishes and the non-vegetarian food available in the restaurants. Paresh Mehta, owner of Garden View restaurant, said Dawoodi Bohras love Gujarati food.
 
