THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has disregarded stern objections from various departments while telling the   on Monday that it would frame a policy to open   in all districts. 

 The proposal for setting up stray dog rehabilitation zoo (SDZ) was first mooted in 2016 in a meeting convened by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. But department of agriculture and   had expressed strong reservations about the feasibility of the plan. As per the proposal, the secretary, department of agriculture was asked to urgently notify 2-3 acres inside the agricultural farms under district panchayat and enclose it with temporary fencing to be maintained as stray dog rehabilitation zoo. It was also directed that the animal welfare agencies who were willing to manage SDZ shall be registered and zone management might be entrusted to them.
 
 A year later in May 2017, chief secretary convened another meeting during which it was pointed out that the proposal on SDZ was not implemented and agriculture department was directed to complete the steps to establish dog zoos in farms under its control within 14 days. However, the agriculture department submitted a report to the state government saying that the project was not feasible and the agriculture department was undertaking another project to establish model farms which could be impacted if SDZs are set up.
 
 When asked about why an unrealistic proposal was being mooted by the state government, LSG minister K T Jaleel said that he was unaware of objections raised by other departments and the proposal was not about dog zoos but dog shelters where dogs could be brought for sterilization and released back to places from where they were caught. However, the minutes of meetings held between 2016 and 2017 available with TOI show that the proposal was mooted for setting up stray dog rehabilitation zoos.
 
 Even in 2014 during UDF regime, the urban affairs department and forest department were locked in a tussle over the choice of a place for the proposed rehabilitation centre for stray dogs. The forest officials had raised their objection over setting up dog rehabilitation centre at Mankayam, a forest area near Palode, saying that the chosen area was a forest reserve meant for conservation of certain selected species.
 
 Senior officials with various departments have expressed surprise over the government affidavit regarding setting up dog zoos in the state which has already been brushed aside as an unrealistic proposal.
 
 Veterinarians had also expressed concerns over establishing SDZs near AHD farms citing that dogs are active carriers of many viral diseases and their proximity to other animals could be fatal to livestock population. Officials had also apprised government about financial burden to be borne by the department in running dog zoos for extended time periods.
 
 Even in 2014 during UDF regime, the urban affairs department and forest department were locked in a tussle over the choice of a place for the proposed rehabilitation centre for stray dogs. The forest officials had raised their objection over setting up dog rehabilitation centre at Mankayam, a forest area near Palode, saying that the chosen area was a forest reserve meant for conservation of certain selected species.
 
