 

 
  
 CMC accepts the May 2016 Supreme Court order that NEET is the eligibility examination for MBBS. The order stated that the rights of the minorities were not affected by NEET. Hence, last year CMC went ahead with its special tests and interviews amongst NEET-qualified candidates, to assess suitability for our training and service. Various courts have held our counseling process to be ‘fair, transparent and non-exploitative’. This year too, we have accepted NEET but have sought exemption from the common counseling process which denies us our right to choose candidates suited to our institutional mission, a right guaranteed to minority institutions under Article 30(1) of the Constitution. 
  
 
  
 He is the son of an armed forces officer killed in action, nominated by the central government, and we have welcomed him. Our faculty readily agreed to take classes for this one candidate. CMC is committed to running the course while we wait for a favourable verdict from the Supreme Court permitting us to admit the remaining 99 through our time-tested counseling process.
  
 
 
  
 From NEET qualified candidates, we select approximately three times the number of candidates and subject them to three days of special tests and interviews—tests on general ability, general knowledge, comprehension and language followed by a medical fitness test. Special tests include group tasks designed to test leadership, teamwork, attitudes, perseverance and negative traits such as over-dominance, disruptive behaviour etc. They are graded and the marks are added to the NEET marks. The tests and interviews are to assess their overall character, and willingness to serve. It is no less than merit.
 This process was developed in 1942 with the help of the armed forces and CMC has been fine tuning it to contextualize it to current settings. The   is permitted its own counselling and physical suitability, as their mission is to train doctors physically and mentally fit for rough environments and tough frontiers. Likewise CMC's mission is to train doctors for the rural areas. CMC, like AFMC, believes that marks alone do not make a good doctor. We match merit with skill with interest and motivation necessary to serve in the remotest areas, instead of wanting to go abroad or make it a high earning career. Our motto is “not to be served, but to serve”. From its inception as a one-bed clinic in 1900, to becoming the first medical college for women in 1942 to a co-ed institution in 1947, CMC has trained students in the highest grade in the art and science of medicine to provide relief from suffering especially to those who are downtrodden, distanced and disadvantaged.
  
 
 
  
 CMC has an impeccable record of training doctors and placing them for lifetime service in some of India’s most remote and inaccessible parts. It does so charging just Rs 3,000 per year as tuition fees for MBBS and Rs 400 for postgraduates. This makes it affordable to poor students from very disadvantaged areas for whom medical education would remain a pipe-dream in the current solely meritocratic system. Most have returned to their areas to serve their people. This subsidised education is meant to instill a spirit of service in our students who understand that patients are contributing to their learning in a small way. Therefore when they graduate, their focus should be on service, not making money. Upon completion of the MBBS course, all candidates serve in mission hospitals in far flung areas for a minimum of two years before their postgraduate courses. They do so willingly, which exposes them to the most miserable village realities, the real India. CMC caters to about 185 such small hospitals that are entirely dependent on the trained manpower provided by us. 70 years of this system has stood the nation in good stead, with about 90% of our graduates and 69% of our postgraduates serving in rural and semi-urban setups for life. In top medical institutions in India where admission is solely based on marks, a majority of graduates end up overseas or in private practice. Our track record has been possible because of CMC’s unique system of selection of students along with excellent training which has produced some amazing health set ups in rural India. We are addressing the government’s own stated shortage of doctors and health personnel in rural India. 
 
