RANCHI: Drubbed by BJP in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh,   here has initiated a move to forge an opposition front to fight the saffron party in the April 9   assembly by-election. 

 The notification for the bypoll was issued on Tuesday. The by-election was necessitated after the death of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) legislator Anil Murmu.   has been winning in Liitpara since 1977. 
 
 As part of his initiative to unite the opposition parties, state Congress president Sukhdeo Bhagat on Tuesday met JMM executive president, Hemant Soren, who is also the leader of opposition. “Our president and the JMM leader discussed the possibilities of forging an alliance of opposition parties to defeat the BJP in the by-election,” state Congress general secretary Alok Dubey said.
 
 Asked whether the opposition parties would have a JMM nominee as their consensus candidate, Dubey said, “We will apprise our central leadership of the ground situation here. The central leadership will take the final decision on this.” He added, “What we want to say is that BJP should never get a chance to win the seat. We want Littipara to be within the UPA fold.”
 
 JMM sources said their party are most likely to field Basant, a younger brother of Hemant, in the by-election. They added that the party would make an announcement in this regard later. 
 
 Many in the opposition camp are not sure about whether Jharkhand Vikas Morcha-Prajatantrik (JVM-P) would support Basant. Some of them are, however, confident that Congress will support the JMM candidate in Littipara. One of them added, “JVM-P has not yet made its stand public.”
 
 BJP, which came to power in the state in 2014, is also yet to make its choice of the candidate public. A BJP source said the ruling party would try its best to wrest Littipara from JMM. He did not rule out the possibility of fielding Anil Murmu’s wife as its nominee if JMM nominates Basant as its candidate. 
 
 The source said, “BJP is weighing all options and looking for a suitable candidate who can help it win the JMM bastion.” Reports said chief minister Raghubar Das, who recently began a robust campaign to attract investment to the state, and state BJP president, Lakshman Gilua, have already discussed the party’s strategy for Littipara. 
 
 The source added that BJP may take a day or two to finalise its candidate. Many in the BJP camp said Hemlal Murmu, who joined the party in 2014, could be one of the probable candidates for Littipara.
 
 Many were of the view that the state government’s decision to amend the Chhotangpur Tenancy Act and Santhal Pargana Tenancy Act could be a major talking point in the election. 
 
