KENDRAPADA: Having given up a plum job in the US three years ago, Nihar Ranjan Beura, an IITian from   in Kendrapada district, has now jumped into the   as an independent candidate. The fifty-year-old will be contesting for the post of panchyat samiti member in Dumuka gram panchayat under Marsaghai block. He filed his nomination paper on Monday. 

 "I have thrown my hat into the rural poll ring in a bid to develop my own panchayat. I gave up a successful corporate career in the USA and other countries to start a dairy farm here three years ago. I also took up other development works to help the villagers. The urge to do something for my village arose five years ago, when I returned to find how little it had changed." 
 
 Reminiscing about how it all started, he added: "One day, I saw some villagers buying packets of milk from a nearby market. This brought back memories of how my mother used to eke out a living by selling the milk produce of four cows, which we used to possess then. Therefore, I decided to help my people by rearing cows in our village. I bought 35 jersey cows with rupees eight lakh. I also built a pucca cattle shed by spending Rs 10 lakh. Now 52 cows give around 300 litres of milk at my dairy farm everyday. I sell milk in the village and its nearby areas on a no-profit-no-loss basis. People of twelve families of our village work on my farm." 
 
 Asked about what prompted him to make the switch from rearing cows to contesting polls, he said: "Many locals requested me to contest the rural polls. So here I am in the race for the post of panchayat samiti member." 
 
 After finishing high school from Marsaghai and   in Kendrapada college, he did his M Tech in industrial engineering and management from IIT, Kharagapur.
 
 "I was barely one-year-old when my father, Sunakar, and my five-year-old brother died in the 1967 cyclone. My mother Sunandabala became a widow at the age of 25. She worked very hard to give me the best of education. During my childhood, I saw acute poverty. So for me helping the poor and needy persons has become a mission," he said.
 
 Talking of the political system in the country, he added: "I was born with nothing. I was educated by the people of the village. This is what I owe to them. I have nothing else to achieve in life. Helping people was my goal. Most political leaders represent the corrupt political system. I will try to clean the system in a small way through my gram panchayat." At present, Nihar heads the SAP practice at KIIT university in Bhubaneswar.
 
 Asked if he has any regrets, Nihar said: "I have no regret about giving up long years of a high-flying career and plum salaries."
 
