AJMER: Bottlenecks in implementation of the smart city project have put   in a damage control mode in  . The government, which appears to be on the back foot before the crucial by-polls, is on a `new project announcements' spree. An indoor stadium in Vaishali Nagar and a satellite hospital in Pancheel are the latest from the government for the city . The district's BJP MLAs, too, are announcing new drinking water and development schemes, besides laying foundation stones for few.

 The possibility of   state president  , a former MP from Ajmer, contesting the by-poll has made BJP leadership more active in the district and the top ministers are trying to scrutinise the region's caste combination. Local BJP leaders have directed to work for an image makeover.
 
 Feedback reports that went to the BJP national committee of the smart city development project were depressing, said sources. “People are not happy as the smart city project is being implemented without any groundwork in Ajmer,“ said a BJP source. That was the reason why local BJP leaders and representatives said, at a meeting called here by the UDH minister, that the smart city project has no connect with the common man.
 
 The laser show inaugurated by chief minister   at Maharana Pratap Smarak on Pushkar Road in 2016 is now closed. Ana Sagar Lake is struggling with water hyacinth (Jalkumbhi) and losing it attraction because of the stink. “The city's sewerage system is not proper and the drainage management failed during the monsoon. The state government is charging sewerage cess with the drinking water bills but there are no sewerage connections at many places in the city,“ said a source.
 
 The Ajmer Development Authority's announcements like the Ajmer-Pushkar tunnel, six-lane road from entering Ajmer and an alternative route to reach railway station have remained on paper. “Considering these conditions, the BJP has asked its leaders to get into damage control mode for the approaching by-elections,“ added a BJP source.
 
 District collector Gaurav Goyal has sanctioned Rs 4.15 crore under the Swachh Bharat Mission for 37 village panchayats in the district. Education minister Vasudev Devnani, who represents   constituency , has announced an indoor stadium at the Government Tekam Chand School in Vaishali Nagar at a cost of Rs 12 crores. State minister Anita Bhadel, who represents   constituency , has also announced many schemes from her MLA fund in past 15 days. “In the coming days, more ministers are expected to make announcements for Ajmer district,“ said a source.
 
 According to political observers, the Ajmer by-poll will be tough for the BJP as many programmes of chief minister Raje have not reached to the grassroots because of internal rivalry in BJP district politics.
 
 On other the hand, people in the district are comparing Pilot's tenure as Ajmer MP that brought   and Kishangarh Airport in the district with the tenure of present BJP government.
 
