AJMER: The city is waiting for   Prime Minister   who will be here to offer prayers at the dargah of   on Sunday. All arrangements to give her a red carpet welcome have been made. The premises of the dargah will be vacated for Bangladesh PM on Sunday morning.

 Last time on January 13, 2010 when   Hasina visited the Ajmer dargah as the Prime Minister of Bangladesh, she wrote in the victors’ book, “Every time I visit this beautiful holy place, I find peace. Today I came here with my dear sister Rehana and other family members and those who are working closely with me. I know from here we will grow more and hope to return again.”
 
 As per the scheduled program PM   will leave New Delhi on Sunday morning at 8.30 am and reach Jaipur at around 9.30 am. From there she will take a chopper and reach the Ghugra Helipad in Ajmer. As per the program, she will reach dargah around 11 am and will remain there for about half an hour and will leave for New Delhi.
 
 Bangladesh PM Hasina was also given a red carpet welcome in New Delhi on her arrival in India on Friday. The local administration in Ajmer is also leaving no stone unturned for making her visit as smooth as possible.
 
 A high-level meeting was called to arrange the visit of Bangladesh PM Hasina. Barricades that were constructed on Dargah Road have been removed. Snipers have been deputed on the roofs of houses that face the Dargah Road.
 
 According to the protocol, dargah will be vacated before the Bangladesh PM reaches here. Security has been tightened for her visit. Sources said that this visit is going to be hectic for the police and administration as the 805th Urs has ended but the city still has around one lakh devotees from different parts of the country who are still visiting the dargah after Urs.
 
 Sources said that managing high crowds inside and outside the dargah will be a tough task for the police. The first time Sheikh Hasina visited the dargah was in 1996 when she was the Prime Minister of Bangladesh and second time she came to pray for her victory on June 22, 2006.
 
