LUCKNOW: Everyone who uses water, must `Rally For Rivers'.So, pitching for a  ,  ,   conceived the campaign, which was flagged off by the  , forest & climate change, Harsh Vardhan on September 3. The rally reached Lucknow on Monday .

 Chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi is scheduled to have a conversation with Sadhguru, founder, Isha Foundation at BR Ambedkar auditorium on Tuesday .Deputy CMs Dinesh Sharma and Keshav Prasad Maurya and cricketer Suresh Raina will also be present to support the  . Singer Mohit Chauhan will be performing at the event.
 
 The Rally reached Lucknow after driving through 10 states.Sadhguru is driving the distance from Kanyakumari to Himalayas, from September 3 to October 2, covering16 states and 23 events in major cities, traversing a stretch of 8,000 km across India.
 
 “This is not a protest nor is this an agitation. This is the campaign to raise awareness that our rivers are depleting.Everyone who consumes water must rally for rivers“ says Sadhguru. “As citizens of India, we need to express our responsibility and change the existing situation of our rivers. How our parents have left the rivers for us, at least that much we should restore before we leave. For the wellbeing of the nation, for future generations and for our generation, let's stand up and make this happen,“ he added.
 
 An expert committee of environmental scientists and lawmakers are also in the process of drawing up a draft policy recommendation that suggests a tree cover up to a depth of 1 km on either side of the river; forest trees on government land and fruit trees on farm land to ensure that moisture in the soil and the air feeds the rivers throughout the year. This solution ensures that rivers are restored while also enhancing farmers' livelihood significantly by gradually shifting from crop to tree-based agriculture.
 
 'Rally for Rivers a win-win for all'
 
 The `RallyForRivers' campaign offers a win-win solution for all. While the farmers stand to increase their incomes by 3-8 times, the national policy proposed as part of the month-long campaign proposes a turnaround to check drying up of rivers, founder of Isha Foundation, Sadhguru tells Nischal Arora.
 
 
