RANCHI/DUMKA: Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Saturday suffered a major pre-poll setback when their   Anil Murmu’s  ,  , joined   along with her elder daughter   and a large number of JMM supporters.

 State minister and Dumka BJP MLA Lois Marandi welcomed the new party workers at a function at Amrapara block headquarters of Pakur district. “JMM chief Shibu Soren and former chief minister Hemant Soren denied me a party ticket to contest the by-election at the eleventh hour. JMM, instead, gave the ticket to Simon Marandi, an arch rival of my late husband,” Hansda said.
 
 Hansda had earlier staked claim to JMM’s party ticket for the by-election scheduled for April 9. JMM, however, chose Simon Marandi who rejoined the party after a three-year stint with BJP.
 
 Both wives of the deceased MLA - Hansda and Nisha Shabnam - had later filed their nomination papers as independent candidates but their papers were rejected by the returning officer on technical grounds.
 
 BJP’s spokesperson Pratul Sahdeo said, “Hansda will campaign for party candidate Hemlal Murmu. She will tell the masses of the injustice meted out by JMM. The treatment meted out to Hansda shows the stark truth about JMM’s claims about respecting leaders who had been part of the Jharkhand separate-state agitation.”
 
 “JMM had earlier refused to give a ticket to deceased MP Sudhir Mahto’s wife Savita and now it has acted in a similar fashion with Hansda. BJP, on the other hand, showed that the party respects leaders who had played an indelible role in the formation of Jharkhand,” Sahdeo added. 
 
 JMM, however, feels Hansda’s move to join BJP will not have an impact on the Littipara bypoll. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said, “Hansda’s move seems to be out of frustration and will have no consequence on the bypoll. Littipara has been a JMM bastion and we are confident that the result of this byelection will prove that the masses are with us.”
 
 On Friday, chief minister Raghubar Das refuted allegations levelled by JMM that the scheduled visit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Sahebganj on April 6 is motivated. Modi is scheduled to visit Sahebganj to lay the foundation stone of a port and a road bridge over Ganga which will connect the state with neighbouring Bihar.
 
 
