TV actresses do turn heads when they step out on the red carpet. But it is telly town’s   who is basking in all the glory right now as she is turning up the heat with her sexy avatar on social media. In a candid chat, Nia tells us her reasons for the transformation:

 
 
 After six years of doing TV shows, I am suddenly in the limelight. Don’t you think that would be a feel-good moment for any actress? I am happy that my rating as one of the sexiest women in Asia by an international poll has taken me further up in life. I don’t want to sound pompous but there was a time when I was just another average-looking, chubby girl and nobody would bother to turn around and look at me. I felt that as an actress, it was important that I look after my body, skin, and groom myself. As cliché as it sounds, I never wanted to be an actor. But then, after  , I became financially strong so I could experiment with my looks. A couple of years ago, I would not have been able to pull off the role of a seductress in a web series. But now, I’ve done it with confidence. TV has given me a lot, but it has its limitations, and my makeover is helping me experiment with newer things.
 
 
 
 There is a dire need to change people’s mindset. I’d uploaded a few bikini pictures on the internet and people started screaming, ‘Oh, she is a wannabe! She wants to prove something!’ Wearing a bikini is as normal as breathing, so what’s this hullabaloo all about? I recently posted my new music video and got trolled because I was dancing in a bustier. Someone rightly said that when   actresses show skin, they are called divas, but when TV actresses become sexy, they are termed as sluts! People really need to grow up and have a life. Styling and fashion has gone to a different level and there is nothing wrong in flaunting your body.
 
 
 
 That definitely does not mean I am promoting smoking. I don’t smoke. But if I am playing a seductress, I need to show that I look like one. I am young, addicted to   and love social media as that’s how we connect with the world. If people think that I will quit social media and stop posting glamorous pictures, then that’s not happening. A few days ago, someone criticised me and accused me of promoting reed-thin figures for women. What’s wrong if I want to be proud of my flat stomach and lean figure?
 
 
 
 I don’t want to be part of a film which just comes and fades away. In TV too, I am now looking for a ‘me-centric’ role. After Jamai Raja, I come with a price and budgets are an issue with producers these days. That’s because makers of newer TV shows want a fresh faces who don’t charge much. That’s why meatier roles don’t come easily to established actresses.
 
 
 
 I am single. I prefer to be friends first and then enter a relationship. I am looking for a man who does not dissuade me from doing anything. 
 
  
  
 
