MUMBAI: The   is is piqued with the BJP’s suggestion, explicitly provocative for the former, that Uddhav Thackeray should promise a transparent and corruptionfree rule in the city hall. “This means we alone are responsible for the graft in the BMC. How can we accept such insinuation?” asked the Sena functionary. Mumbai   chief Ashish Shelar on Wednesday reiterated Mumbai deserved an administration steeped in transparency.

 But setting aside differences over a range of issues, the BJP-Shiv Sena resumed seatsharing talks on Wednesdayas the state election commission announced dates for statewide polls to local self-governing bodies. Uddhav said a panel of three senior functionaries from the two parties each was working out the nitty-gritty.
 
 “CM Devendra Fadnavis and I will take the final decision,” he told mediapersons. Asked if he was positive about the outcome of talks, Uddhav said, “If I wasn't, I wouldn’t have deputed three leaders from my party to continue talks with the BJP.”
 
 The Congress, NCP, MIM,   and MNS too are jostling for space in the BMC. The Mumbai Congress has pulled out all stops to come down heavily on saffron rule in the corporation.
 
 In an attempt to retain its traditional voters, MRCC chief   has finalized community-wise manifestos for Marathi, Gujarati, Muslim and north Indian voters, it is learnt. The NCP will keep a hawk’s eye on its traditional votebank in, say, Parel, Sewri, Lalbaug, Dadar, and the suburbs of Bhandup, Ghatkopar and Kanjurmarg.
 
 Having inked a poll pact with the BJP, the RPI (  faction) is keen on contesting 20 seats in Dalit-dominated pocketboroughs such as BDD chawls in Worli, Ghatkopar, Mulund, Trombay, Chembur and Kandivli.
 
 Having suffered a body blow in the last few elections, MNS needs to strain every nerve to retain its 2012 strength of 28. The party stands to gain if Sena teams up with BJP, said analysts. Speculation is rife in political circles that the BJP may secretly back MNS candidates in Marathi citadels in an attempt to clip Sena’s wings.
 
 Both the SP and MIM are vying to close in on the Muslim-dominated wards in south Mumbai, Sewri, Bandra, Andheri, Jogeshwari and Kurla, among others. Poll pundits said the MIM, which has done exceedingly well in the Marathwada polls and whose leaders are known for their inflammatory speeches, may find it tough to cut the SP to size or to encroach on the Congress’s minority votebank.
 
 Hours after the poll timetable was unveiled, netas went into a huddle, fine-tuning strategies, probing possibilities of alliances, finalizing candidates and mobilising resources. Braving demonetisation and the winter, karyakartas cutting across party lines are ready to visit slums and skyscrapers, colonies and chawls in a bid to re-bond with Mumbaikars over a hot cuppa to re-define the city’s destiny.
 
 
