BHOPAL: If Hoshangabad municipal chairman   has his way, this little city on the banks of Narmada river will be the first in Madhya Pradesh to go pure veg.

 Hoshangabad is about 70km from Bhopal, and according to legend was once known as Narmadapuram. Khandelwal confessed to being a devotee of   CM Yogi Adityanath. But while the Yogi has banned illegal slaughterhouses, Khandelwal wants to ban meat altogether in the holy town, and has sought opinion on social media.
 
 “Kya Hoshangabad main mans, mutton or machli ka vikray pratibandhit hona chaheye (Should the sale of meat, mutton and fish be banned in Hoshangabad),” Khandelwal posted on his Facebook wall at 10am on Sunday. Within minutes, comments start pouring in. Last seen, there were over 400 likes and 300 comments, mostly in favour of the veg option, but a few did express concern.
 
 “I appreciate what the UP CM did. Meat should be banned in MP, at least in cities like Hoshangabad, which are located along the banks of Narmada,” Khandelwal told TOI on Sunday even as his post went viral on other social networking sites. He says he will wait for a week to “see the reaction and base his decision on that”. 
 
 Khandelwal had shot to fame in January this year by announcing on Facebook that he would give Rs 10,000 to anyone who slaps filmmaker Sanjay Leela Bhansali with a shoe for “distorting historical facts in Padmavati”. “Sanjay Leela Bhansali ko jootey marney par Rs 10,000 rupiyey inaam,” reads his post. Talking to media later, Khandelwal said was not apologetic for the post.
 
 But quite a few people have expressed concern over his decision to turn Hoshangabad a vegetarian city, pointing out that it impacts livelihood and hundreds of families depend on the meat business. 
 
 “Ban on meat in this district will be in favour of this city. But this municipality will never be able to do it. BJP may lose votes from a particular community by doing so. Jai Hind,” Bahahdur Singh Rajput commented on Khandelwal’s post. Sagar Anant, however, pointed out that no law permits banning food items. “It (meat) should be banned in some particular spots only,” agreed Akhilesh Tiwari. 
 
 Rajesh Raikwar said the meat shops should be shut down only after finding an alternative source of livelihood for those dependent on it. Some others appealed to Khandelwal to resolve civic issues before thinking of a meat ban.
 
