It's a tradition that goes back several decades. After the air has sobered down from an evening of some of Saarang's most electrifying rock gigs, a bunch of boys sit at the heart of IIT's now deserted open air auditorium and fight it out for the title of Lone Wolf one of the country's most coveted quizzes, in the dead of the night. On December 6, eight participants filtered out after several rounds of prelims battled it out from midnight to daybreak, until the winner,  , emerged.

 “After three years of attempting, I've won this time,“ he says. With 15 rounds that have the participants onthe edge of their seats, the questions are curated, layered and tricky.“They used a round of questions on cocktails to lead us to guess a famous literary work, 'To Kill a Mockingbird',“ says Rajasekaran. A computer science student from Trichy's National Institute of Technology, Rajasekaran is incidentally also the creator of the  's latest solo written quiz.
 
 Quizzing enthusiast and member of the nonprofit organisation, The   knows just too well how palpable the ex citement on this hot chair can be. Two decades ago, he sat here himself mind racing as he battled out the last few hours of Lone Wolf with another brilliant quizzer and now journalist  , and went on to beat him on a chilly morning in 1991. He also went on to keep the title for three years in a row.
 
 “Those times were different,“ he says. “Creating tricky, indirect questions was hard work. If you wanted to create a visual question, you had to make a slide out of it on a projector or play it as a video, manually fast forwarded to the required part, on the VCR. Today you just have to go on YouTube.“
 
 Knowledge too was less dissipated, restricted to newspapers, books and magazines housed inside the American and   libraries or the Higginbothams bookstore.“Today, the options are extensive with the internet and the quizzes too are con sequently harder. For instance, you may be played two videos and asked what connects them. It could be an actor, the director, the year, an event,“ adds Kidao.
 
 While many look at the mark of a good quizzer in the lack of any evidence of his preparation, a real quizzer is one who's wired to feel perpetually curious and indulge himself in it, say quizzers in the city. It goes way beyond intellectual versatility, that sort of examination-style preparation, and instead becomes your very perspective. The ability to process information and flesh out interesting ways of remembering it builds quizzing acumen.
 
