AMRITSAR: Having won the battle for including Sikhism as a separate religion in the census form of Pakistan, Karachi-based lawyer Hira Singh has said that he has readied himself to fight other legal battles, even if they run into years, for the minority community in the neighbouring country.

 Talking to TOI after the Sindh high court ordered the inclusion of Sikhs in the ongoing census of Pakistan, an elated Hira said the court’s decision would prove to be a milestone in establishing the distinct identity of Sikhs in Pakistan. “However, there still are several issues, like registration of Sikhs’ marriages, that remain unresolved. In Pakistan, Sikh marriages are registered under the Hindu Marriage Act. The community has been demanding that its marriages be registered under Anand Karaj Act. We are for a long legal battle to get this right too,” he said.
 
 He added that there were more Sikhs in Pakistan than had been perceived earlier. “There are around one lakh turbaned Sikhs in Pakistan, while more than five lakh others have faith in Guru Granth Sahib and observe all Sikh religious days,” he said, while talking to TOI over the phone. “Many communities, including Bagri and Oad, have embraced Sikhism. So, the number is higher than what I expect.”
 
 Hira had moved the Karachi-based Sindh high court against the exclusion of Sikhs and Parsis from the census form, and being categorized as “other religions”, following which the high court ordered in the favour of the two minority communities.
 
 Hira Singh added that the census inclusion would help the community establish its identity in the country. Sikhs in Pakistan are mostly concentrated in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Punjab and   — the population is in accordance with the order in which the provinces have been named. There are also in greater numbers in cities like Nankana Sahib, Punja Sahib, Shekhupura and Lahore. However, there are wide differences over the Sikhs’ count in Pakistan with the community.
 
 Hira Singh, who has also been an adviser to former prime minister late Benazir Bhutto, said he had filed the petition under Article 199 of the Constitution of   on March 21. He said the court had also summoned the chief statistician and provincial census commissioner, Karachi, to appear in court with regards to the absence of ‘Sikh’ religion from the census form.
 
 
