Soon, some of the world's greatest archi tectural wonders -from those on Pacific w islands to Egypt,   to China -will just be a short drive away from home. Coming up at   in Rajarhat, the `seven wonders of the world' project promises thrills to take your breath away . But what has gone behind this mammoth project, which is the brainchild of chief minister Mamata Banerjee?
A CT visit to the project site found a hive of artisans working furiously under the eagle eye of sculptor and artist Rupchand Kundu, who is executing the project. The seven sites being recreated are India's  , Brazil's Christ the Redeemer, Moai statues of Easter Island, the Great Wall of China, Colosseum of Rome, Petra in Jordan and the Great Pyramid of Giza, Egypt.“There are several wonders in the world, but we have chosen the most amazing ones. Also, we had to consider the pros and cons of the con struction. After examining all the aspects, we finalised the list. This project is very close to our CM's heart,“ Kundu told us.
 
 There are 250 people working under him and the plan is to hand over the project by March 2017.
 
 Kundu had to visit four out of seven wonders -Taj Mahal, Christ the Redeemer, Petra and Colosseum -to get a proper idea of the architecture. “ As we started working on the project, I went through a lot of related articles online but there were still problems of measurement, which can't be solved without seeing the actual work of art,“ he said. When Kundu informed the authorities about the problems, they sent him on location visits. This mega project was undertaken by   Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) in March 2016. While the cost has already crossed `12 crore, sources say it will go up further in the next few months.
 
 “We Bengalis are voyage lovers but not everyone has the money and resources to see the real seven wonders of the world. So, our government came up with this idea. Also, from the very beginning, we wanted to develop Rajarhat as a tourist haven. This project is the CM's brainchild and we've given our team all the necessary help to complete the project as soon as possible. I am expecting an inauguration by Durga Puja 2017,“ said Debashis Sen, principal secretary , urban development department.
 
 
