THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The finance department has amended a clause regarding the eligibility certificate to be certified by village officer, which is mandatory for availing the benefits of the ambitious Rs 900-crore education loan waiver scheme announced recently by the state government.

 In the certificate, the beneficiary has to give a declaration regarding hisher eligibility for the scheme. The village officer concerned has to certify that whatever has been mentioned in the declaration is true, and the applicant is personally known to himher for the last three years.
 
 The condition, originally included by the finance department, had been adversely affecting the genuine beneficiaries of the scheme. It has now be en replaced with a reasonable clause on the basis of the recommendations of the revenue department.
 
 “We brought it to the attention of the finance department when several complaints came to us.When most of the village officers hardly work at a place for more than two years, how are they expected to know a local person among the 25,000-plus population in a village for three years? If they certify it, which is unlikely to be true in most of the cases, we are setting a ground for corruption,“ said additional chief secretary (revenue)  .
 
 As per a revenue department order issued on Tuesday, the new clause which replaces the old one says the village officer should ascertain whether the applicant's income is within the prescribed limit specified in the scheme and also whether the applicant is employed. “The village officers will have to verify and find out if the applicants are genuine in their claims,“ said  .
 
 The revenue department is currently in the process of preparing a list of certificates that a village officer can issue. The move is part of the efforts to weed out all possible avenues of corruption. A high-level inspection had revealed that there are several previously unheard of and `illegal' certificates being issued by village officers in the state.
 
 The state government had announced the education loan repayment support scheme in April this year with retrospective effect from April 1, 2016.
 
