THANE: The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena seem to be caught in a slugfest of sorts ahead of the civic elections with each party reportedly trying to outdo the other in retaining their respective domains and acquire new strongholds.

 The tussle between the two major parties in the city took an ugly turn this week after NCP accused Sena of deliberately pressuring the district machinery to slap notices and penalty to   under the Maharashtra Land Revenue Act 1966 sections. 
 
 The notice reportedly issued to thousands of slums in the city asked residents occupying slum tenements to pay up Rs 18,252 as first installment of four for reportedly occupying government land.
 
 “The notices seemed to be deliberately slapped ahead of the polls and they would be later rolled back making the gullible residents think that the government has been considerate towards them by revoking the same. It is unfair to hold the poor residents of slums to ransom," said Anand Paranjape, city president of NCP.
 
 Meanwhile, senior leader   outrightly rejected all allegations and instead blamed the NCP to stooping low and unnecessarily dragging poor residents to gain political benefit. 
 
 “The notices were sent before the poll code of conduct was in force. The issue was sorted out much before and it is surprising the NCP has raked up this issue at this hour,” questioned Shinde.
 
 Senior Sena leader   on Wednesday refuted all claims blaming the NCP for the delay in improvement works in the city. “The NCP claims the creekside beautification plan was their inception since 2009. Why is it that the party didn’t take any initiatives to develop it soon? Further, why wasn’t cluster development promoted during the NCP-Congress tenure,” he asked.
 
 The two parties were the major vote gainers in the 2012 polls and clearly there seems to be an ambition to expand their respective horizons.
 
 “The parties have been involved in a blame game accusing each other of having deliberately sent notices to the slum dwellers threatening them with evictions and penalty initially and later withdraw them. Clearly, both seem to be having an agenda by playing messiah ahead of the crucial polls to the municipal corporation,” said a political observer from the city. 
 
