SEECHEWAL/SULTANPUR LODHI: Impressed by environmentalist Balbir Singh Seechewal's "natural" method of treating waste water in   village and   town in Kapurthala, Bihar chief minister   said on Sunday that his government would replicate the model soon. 

 The Bihar CM, who was all praise for the rejuvenation of the 160-km-long  , also took a 2-km boat ride in the historic water channel from Gurudwara Ber Sahib to  . "The model is worth emulating. We will replicate it in Bihar and send officials to see how things are working here," Nitish said.
 
 Bihar irrigation minister Rajiv Ranjan Singh, former chief secretary G S Kang and senior officials of the state irrigation department also accompanied the CM. "We started laying streets and drains in villages by last year's end, still the issue of managing waste water is staring at us. Looking for a solution, we have come here to see how waste water is treated at the village level and then used for irrigation," Nitish said, after seeing the waste water management system at Seechewal and then at Sultanpur Lodhi.
 
 As Nitish toured the plants, Seechewal briefed him about how they work and answered his queries. The Bihar CM said the best thing about the model was that waste water was treated naturally to make it fit for irrigation and no chemicals were used. "We are in a self-damaging mode with the way we are treating our environment. Seechewal has done things himself in place of confining himself to delivering sermons only on the issue of environment," he said.
 
 Nitish said he met Seechewal at Patna Sahib, when the Kapurthala-based environmentalist had gone there to participate in celebrations marking the 350th birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh. "Kang arranged my meeting with him. I was curious to know about his model for treating waste water on listening to him. Before coming, I waited for the elections to get over," he said.
 
 As Bihar CM visited the locally developed sewerage treatment plant at Seechewal, he also made it a point to visit crop in the fields which were being irrigated with the treated water.
 
 
