THANE: The railways and the   (TMC) are yet to come to a consensus over the final design of the   at  . The project which has already been delayed for nearly five years continues to stare into a bleak future.

 A meeting was held recently between the engineering departments of both the agencies, but it failed to reach a conclusion, following which both parties decided to fine tune their respective drawings. The mandate for the agencies is to ensure that the new station and surrounding areas are capable of handling the additional traffic for the next 30 years.
 
 The railway and TMC officials have been exchanging drawings almost every month but still have failed to come to a conclusion.
 
 This is just adding to the commuters woes, especially those travelling from GB Road as the current station is quite far. The station is also inadequate to cater to the rising population, especially during peak hours.
 
 “It is like a disaster in the waiting at Thane station. The bridges and platforms at the station are always crowded. When a long distance and suburban train come at the same time, it becomes impossible to move around. It is high time the authorities start the new facility,” said Vinod Sharma, a regular commuter. 
 
 Railways officials said that they were exploring the possibilities to minimize their operational delays and approach roads to the new platforms. The TMC is working on developing a smooth access and exit road to cater to increase in traffic. 
 
 “The civic body is planning to construct roads, parking lots, bus stands and walkways for commuters. The railways is also working on the location of the new station so that it has easy access points and does not hamper with the operation of other trains,’’ said an official associated with the project. 
 
 The new railway station at Kopri will be developed on an 18-acre plot, which belongs to the state government. The land is yet to be handed over to the TMC.
 
 As per plans, a platform will be developed between the existing slow tracks between Thane and Mulund, similar to the one at Nahur. 
 
 While the alignment of the Up direction tracks will remain unchanged, the Down line will be pushed towards the west side. An additional line will be taken up within the mental hospital premises towards an island platform that will serve as a terminal facility.
 
 The Kopri railway station project was proposed by the TMC in 2011 as a solution to decrease the crowd at Thane station. The alternate station has become a necessity considering the immense strain on Thane station with over 7 lakh passengers, including those from the trans-Harbour and mail express, using the existing infrastructure.
 
 Over 1,400 suburban services operate from the station daily, in addition to over 100 express trains, making it one of the most dense terminals in Mumbai.
 
