TRICHY: Many   have refused to abide by the state government’s directive asking them to refrain from using the names and photographs of   on   

 For instance, First Cross Street of Thillai Nagar sports an attractive poster of a private school in the city. With pictures of students who secured the top three ranks in the 12 board exams this year, the school has been inviting applications for admissions this year. 
 
 A similar poster has come up at Tennur as well highlighting the facilities in the school that prompted their students to excel in the board examination. 
 
 Posters are visible in many parts of the city highlighting the students who secured top marks with the name of the school in bold letters. The   announcement to do away with the rank list of state toppers this year has come as a big blow to the promotional activities of private schools.
 
  Neither was the list of state rank holders nor that of district level toppers announced by the state government this year. However many schools continue to highlight top scorers from their school in the form of advertisements and banners.
 
 “The top rank holders were used as baits by these schools to make themselves much sought-after and attract more students. But all these attempts were thwarted by the state government this year,” said Leelavathy, a parent from K K Nagar. The education department officials must ensure that the schools follow norms, she said. 
 
 Officials from Trichy district school education department said that the government order asking schools not to differentiate between children based on their marks was circulated to all schools as soon as it was received. 
 
 “Some of the schools have taken serious note of the order and refrained from differentiating between children based on their marks through advertisements,” said Trichy chief education officer M Ramakrishnan. 
 
 “We will ensure that all schools follow the instructions strictly,” said Ramakrishnan while adding that there wasn’t any action suggested by the state government against the violators yet. 
 
 
