Nagpur: The Maharashtra government in its affidavit submitted to the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has refuted all allegations made over the condition of Regional Mental Hospital here. Petitioner Satish Uke, a lawyer, had approached judiciary over alleged sufferings of patients at the mental hospital. He contended that due to large-scale vacancies and shortage of medicines, patients are not being provided proper health care. There is scarcity of drinking water at the hospital and in winter season, patients are not even provided woollen clothes, said Uke. The court had asked the government for its reply. In the affidavit, medical superintendent Dr Pravin Navkhare informed the court that the hospital was in best of condition and was appreciated by state health minister Dr Deepak Sawant during his visit on December 6.  Dr Navkhare refuted that the patients, who were cured, were not being discharged stating that their relatives didn’t come to take them back.“ Even the address of relatives was not proper and it becomes difficult to trace them. Sometimes patients were brought in critical conditions and were not in position to talk. Once they get cured, a psychiatrist checks them and takes information from them on a case paper. Last year, 80 patients were discharged after their relatives were traced,” the affidavit stated. The affidavit added that if the relatives failed to take patients home, such cases are brought forward to visitors committee which discharges them on the basis of their health condition. The superintendent also denied that a patient Manohar Ahuja died due to thrashing by Class IV employees. He said he was under treatment for schizophrenia and ischemic heart disease and died due to heart problem, which was confirmed by the post mortem report. Navkhare admitted that out of 234 sanctioned Class IV posts, 82 were vacant and this has been communicated to the state government. The government has also been apprised of vacancies in Class I, II and III. He also stated that hospital has two separate sections — for male and female — for meeting of relatives with patients, under supervision of social worker having knowledge of psychiatry. The hospital has separate legal aid service working under secretary of Nagpur District Legal Aid Services Authority for the patients, the affidavit stated.