JAHURABAD(GHAZIPUR): The eastern UP district, otherwise known as home to   and for its opium factory, is nowadays also talked about for BJP’s unique caste experiment. Enter its Jahurabad constituency and the public discourse revolves around the caste permutations in play and the saffron party’s partner   (SBSP). 

 SBSP president   Rajbhar is the party’s candidate here, drawing his strength from his caste men accounting for 2.7% of state’s population and spread evenly across several constituencies of eastern UP. The BJP has strategically allied with the MBC outfit, which though is contesting on only eight seats, but is expected to help its bigger partner gain the support of Rajbhars in nearly 75 constituencies. 
 
 Barely 100km from PM Narendra Modi’s constituency, Varanasi, Jahurabad is part of Ghazipur district but falls under Ballia   constituency. Notably, several SPSB candidates are pitted against some mighty rivals. So, if Om Prakash is NDA candidate from Jahurabad, his son, Arvind Rajbhar, is fighting against senior state minister and chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s loyalist Ram Gobind Choudhary on Bansdih seat in neighouring Ballia. His brother-in-law, Mahendra Rajbhar, is contesting from Mau against strongman Mukhtar Ansari.
 
 With three out of eight candidates from his own family, Om Prakash has been accused of practising nepotism. Two-time MLA, Kalicharan Rajbhar and BSP nominee harps on Om Prakash’s obsession with own family than the community. He is backed by sitting MLA Shadab Fatima, former minister and a Shivpal loyalist sacked from SP by Akhilesh.
 
 His own fate in Jahurabad may hang in balance but his community -- followers of medieval period Lakhneshwar King, Suheldev -- is strongly rallying behind BJP. If saffron party does well, SBSP’s role would be very crucial. “We have suffered for decades. Now we want our share in power,” says Om Prakash, claiming that the community has been deprived of the OBC benefits that was grabbed by a single dominant caste.
 
 Party’s yellow flag is flying high in the “rajbhar basti” in the southern portion of a village, which keep echoing with “Jai Suheldev” slogans. The impotance of Om Prakash could be gauged from the fact that during his rally at Mau, Modi spoke about two leaders from the community -- BJP MP from, Ghosi, Hari Naraian Rajbhar and Om Prakash. He also hinted that Om Prakash would be given key position if BJP came to power.
 
