MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday directed the BMC and police to completely stop the illegal sale of animals and birds in pet shops at  .

 The court was hearing a PIL by Sanjay Shirke for action against owners of these shops which openly sell exotic species like jungle fowls, macaws, hornbills, peacocks, munias, parakeets and mynahs.
 
 The BMC's advocate said showcause notices are issued to the shop owners to ascertain if they have valid licences. Prosecutor   informed that first information reports are registered against them and they are also put to trial. But the judges were furious at the inaction of the authorities to stop the sale. “They are back next day . Is your machinery so helpless? Like ordinary people you talk. There has to be better response,“ said the bench. Shirke's advocate Abhishek Yende submitted: “Within a day any exotic bird is delivered.“
 
 The judges perused the pictures and remarked, “The animals are drugged so that they don't cry or make a noise.“ Yende added, “Their claws are taken out.'' The bench said it is not as if the police and BMC do not know about these pet shops and added they will inform the owners in advance of raids. “We don't want a single shop of this kind to go on. This is openly happening next to the police commissioner's office and no action is being taken,“ they said. The bench, in its order, said the authorities are not serious and doing nothing to see the unlawful sale of animals is completely stopped at Crawford Market. It directed the ward officer (markets) and senior inspector of MRA Marg police station to keep a strict vigil to enforce and eradicate the illegal sale of animals and birds. It added that these officers will be held respon sible and if the sale is not completely stopped then the court “will definitely take action against them“.
 
 The member secretary of   , or through his deputy , is directed to conduct a surprise visit and submit a report with pictures depicting the exact position to the court.Adjourning the hearing, the bench said, “See that it is not shifted to another place.“
 
