   began the show by telling Navjot Singh Sidhu, how excited he is for the episode as the actress whom he adores the most is going to come on   along with several other actresses. He welcomes  's lead actress   along with Ila Arun, Gauahar Khar, Pallavi Sharda and other cast members.
 
  Vidya came along with eight actresses and said she felt that Kapil could now flirt with any one of them. As Kapil goes forward meeting all the ladies, he comes across a hand, which is of Nani.
  
  Kapil threatens to replace Nani (Ali Asgar) with Ila Arun, but Ali tells him that he won’t be able to afford her. The host later indulges in conversation with Vidya and the rest of the actresses. Vidya praises Kapil for being multi talented.
  
  While talking about their movie, the actresses includin Gauahar revealed how they were not allowed to wear any make-up and if director Srijit Mukherji would see anyone with even some powder, he would come and wipe off their faces with wet wipes. Vidya also revealed that there were times when she hurled abuses on the sets which have been recorded and are a part of the film.
  
   's paternal uncle Lumba Ji comes on the stage and asks the girls who would like to marry him. He does his antics, makes everyone laugh and then leaves. Vidyawati played effortlessly by Sugandha comes on the stage for her performance with her boyfriend Sanju Baba. He does face reading for the actresses and charges them money.
  
  
 
  
  Kapil asks Vidya if she practiced smoking hukka (as she is seen doing it in the film) with Siddharth. She explains that yes, I sang to him 'Tera Pyar Pyar Pyar Hukka bar' and starts laughing. Kapil asks her if she is naughty just on screen or with Siddharth (her husband) too, she reverts by saying, "With him, there is different kind of naughtiness''.
  
  Highlight of the show was Dr Mashoor Gulati, who is sad as it his wedding anniversary and as evetyone knows his wife had left him many years ago. Gauahar tries to cheer him but he is sad. So the girls gang gets him ready for a party and they sing and dance.
  
  The show is concluded by the actresses sharing their experiences during the film.
  
  
 
  
  
 
