CHENNAI:   of unapproved housing plots may be able to uncross their fingers soon as the government is formulating a scheme to regularise such plots. The draft scheme, under the consideration of the state, moots   for a penal fee, and relatively higher  .

 Coming under the backdrop of the ban imposed by the   last year on registering unapproved plots by registration authorities, the proposal would unfreeze at least five lakh plots lying unsold across the state. If approved, it would be the second   introduced in the state after 1999. The high court had already struck down two regularisation schemes in 2000 and 2001.
 
 Official sources said though the quantum of the development charge has not been finalised, “it would vary for standalone unauthorised plots and unsold plots that are part of a larger layout.“ “The charges for the second category are likely to be more and discussions are on,“ the official told TOI. Approvals for existing unregistered housing plots, where a chunk of the layout has al ready been sold, would be offered only if the remaining plots adhere to stipulated norms of the Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) as per the draft, sources added. The parameters include width of road and space for parking. The   to obtain approval from DTCP for carving out layouts on 1 hectare of land are around Rs 40,000.
 
 New housing plots can't be registered without approval of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) or DTCP in their jurisdictions. “Rules under section 47-(2) A of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning Act, 1971 which came into effect in 2010 and Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act are already in place,“ an official said.
 
 Alarmed over rampant conversion of agricultural lands into residential plots, the Madras high court banned registration of plots lacking statutory approvals in September 2016. It left the government's coffers bleeding with registrations reporting a fall in revenue to the tune of Rs 300 crore a month. This was followed by a series of measures by the state machinery with a notification issued last October seeking to permit resale of registered unauthorised housing plots, provided they were recorded as house sites in the previous sale deeds.
 
 “Around five lakh unapproved plots sold since 1999 when the first regularisation scheme came into effect would be benefited,“ said Ramaprabhu, secretary of the Builders' Association of India's southern centre.  , a member of the monitoring committee, has said the draft on the regularisation scheme must be released for public comments before it is notified. “The high court must direct the state government to put the draft in the public domain as it's an issue concerning the entire state,“ he said.
 
