GURUGRAM: For   of MCG Ward number 6, the only thing that seems to have changed since the last MCG elections is its number. While the area under this ward is more or less the same, it was known as Ward 17 during the last term.

 Residents said issues plaguing this ward are many. They include sewerage, water-logging, lack of parking space and of security, to name a few. They said they are amazed BJP has given the ticket to the sitting councillor Anoop, who they claimed hasn’t done much. It needs to be seen, though, if anti-incumbency will play a role in the September 24 elections.
 
 “Despite being a Huda sector, my area looks like a slum because of the number of pigs and filth overflowing all around. We have kept complaining, but no relief was ever extended. A huge vacant plot right outside my home is being used by anti-socials, and as an unauthorised parking bay by buses and trucks. In the absence of working street-lights, there’s no safety. Neither MCG officials nor the councillor has done anything,” said  , a Sector 12A resident.
 
 The candidate, though, was confident of victory. “Around Rs 90 crore has been spent across my ward by various government agencies on development works during my term. Also, I’ve ensured all parks in my ward have badminton and tennis courts. I want kids to play and not sit in front of computers. The only work lagging behind is road repair, but I’m sure now that monsoon has ended, that too will be taken care of,” said Anoop.
 
 He disagreed that the new flyover at Sukhrali is poorly designed. TOI had earlier reported that the flyover’s direction is faulty and not as per original plan. “So far, nobody has complained because of this. If they do, I’ll look into it, though I agree, had the length of the flyover been extended by say another 100m, it would have been better,” he said.
 
 Residents strongly disagreed with his view. “How can he say he hasn’t received any compliant about the flyover?” asked Sector 14 resident Vanshika Kaushik. She added, “That he doesn’t seem to be aware of traffic congestions resulting from this poorly planned project, shows he isn’t bothered about us. As councillor, he should have ensured MCG officials do not change the flyover’s design. I for one won’t vote for him just for this reason.”
 
 
