CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal on Monday picked party's Sangrur MP   as the new Punjab president and prominent Hindu face and Sangrur MLA Aman   as co-president.The decision antagonized two key state leaders ­ party's chief whip   and the outgoing state convener Gurpreet Singh   ( ).Khaira even conveyed his decision to resign as the chief whip in a meeting with Kejriwal.

 Questions were raised over Mann's elevation as a section of the state leaders, disgruntled with the choice, raised past controversies over his “drinking habits“, to which Kejriwal said Mann had given him an assurance that he will stay away from such controversies.
 
 Perturbed with the decision, Khaira conveyed his decision to resign from the posts of chief whip of the party and also spokesperson. “He was visibly upset and said he would rather work as a volunteer in the party. Even though Kejriwal didn't accept the resignation, Khaira appeared to be firm on his resolve and left the meeting,“ said a party leader who attended the meeting.
 
 Waraich too was upset with the way the party chose to unceremoniously remove him as state convener. “He felt there was no need for an elaborate exercise if the party had already decided to make him the scapegoat,“ said a party leader in Delhi.
 
 Sources added that Khaira too came out in defence of Waraich and said that if he was being blamed for the party's performance, then Mann too was heading the campa ign committee and had a key role in ticket distribution.“Khaira said by that yardstick, Mann too had failed in the assembly elections.“
 
 Contrary to the party's claims of winning 90 seats, it could win just 20.
 
 Sources said Kejriwal first gave a hearing to the party MLAs from Punjab, following which he announced the decision to appoint Mann and Arora. He also named Jagraon MLA Sarvjit Kaur the new deputy leader in the assembly . The marathon exercise that began around noon went on till 5pm. A meeting of the political affairs committee of the party was held in the evening. The party has decided to appoint Mann as state president despite some NRI supporters writing to Kejriwal not to pick him.Sources said his appointment was an attempt to placate him after he openly criticised the party's policies after the assembly election debacle.
 
 A senior AAP leader, meanwhile, said the party will soon reach out to both Khaira and Waraich. “There are also indications that Waraich will be rehabilitated with a new role in the party. He took over during a crisis period after the removal of his predecessor Sucha Singh Chhotepur,“ he said.
 
 Convener turns prez
 
 AAP has changed nomenclatures in the state unit. Previously called `convener', the head of the Punjab unit will now be a president and his deputy will be co-president. The previous system had been criticised as it allowed Delhi-appointed zonal in-charge and observers to have authority over local leaders. A proposal to have a hierarchy that was on the lines of traditional parties was mooted after AAP's poor performance in the elections.
 
 Woman gets voice
 
 Sarvjit Kaur, 44, AAP MLA from Jagraon, told TOI that coming from a non-political family, it was a big responsibility given by the party to play the role of deputy leader in the assembly. “I will focus on the health and education scenario in the state. Also, mafia controlling certain businesses needs to be raised in the assembly,“ said Kaur, who holds a master's degree in economics and had a stint as a teacher before taking to politics.
 
