KOCHI: A   by the community   of a city hospital has found that   and work pressures are taking a toll on women. 

 The study that covered over 400 household found that women ­who played the twin role of managing home and career ­were victims of  .
 
 The study conducted in April and May (2016) found that 46.6% of the domestic accidents took place in the morning and 66% of the victims were females. People were asked to reveal any form of accident injury they had in the past one year for the study.
 
 Mostly, such incidents happened in the courtyard and kitchens while women were cooking or doing some domestic chores, stated the study. Other spots where accidents occurred were bedrooms, bathrooms and on the terrace. Though most women sustained minor injuries (on upper lower limbs), some were hospitalized with head, neck, abdomen and throat injuries. The study added that 7.9% of those who recovered had to endure some degree of physical disability.
 
 “Women have a lot of work every morning as they have to arrange stuff, send children to school and ensure that husbands are on time for office. While trying to get things done quickly, they tend to get injured. Other accidents like the one on roads get adequate attention. But domestic accidents do not get such attention. We also covered accidents that took place one year prior to the study period,“ said associate professor of community medicine at AIMS Paul T Francis, who was part of the study team.
 
 Though the study published in the International Journal of Community Medicine and Public Health focuses on Njarackal, psychiatrists and women counsellors said that the situation was not so different in other parts of the city.
 
 “It is quite common to see women rushing to finish work in the morning. The joint family has now been replaced by nuclear families and both the wife and husband are employed. The problem in our society is that men in our families do not share domestic work. If they chip in, women need not rush,“ said psychiatrist C J John.
 
 Dora Dominic, who heads the sociology department at St Theresa's College, said that gender division still exists in our society. “It is believed that the whole responsibility of the family falls on a woman's shoulder. The dual responsibility puts pressure on women, who juggle domestic and office work,“ she said.
 
