KOLKATA: The birth of filmmaker Karan Johar’s twins Roohi and Yash and actor Tusshar Kapoor’s son Laksshay might have raised the hope for single fathers craving for parenthood through   in Kolkata. But fact is, most city doctors have stopped honouring such requests for fear of legal complications. However, the cases of surrogacy in the city have interestingly gone up by 50% ever since the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill of 2016 was passed by the Union Cabinet in August and subsequently introduced in the Lok Sabha in December.

 Dr Rajeev Aggarwal has noticed this rise in his clinic. “I believe this bill should never get passed. There is a fear among people that if it does get passed, many couples in need of medical surrogacy won’t be able to avail of it,” Aggarwal said.
 
 Women with medical problems or repeated IVF failures due to poor implantation are hence rushing to clinics to get the rent-a-womb facility before it becomes illegal. 
 
 However, Aggarwal has not come across any single father doing that in Kolkata.
 
 According to Dr Shiuli Mukherjee, three cases of surrogacy in a month were reported at her clinic before August last year. Since November, the number of cases jumped to six per month. “The fear of the ban has led to this increase. Elderly heterosexual couples who have had IVF failures are approaching us. Post-August, I’ve had a high-risk cardiac patient and another multiple sclerosis patient opting for surrogacy. But there is a gap between demand and supply of wombs. The number of good surrogate mothers has not increased during this period,” Mukherjee said.
 
 Dr Gautam Khastagir, who will be attending an UGC-sponsored national seminar on socio-legal study on surrogacy at the Surendranath Law College later this week, believes renting a womb is like taking a shortcut. “I don’t offer surrogacy for convenience or social surrogacy. I’ve turned down an offer by a high-profile woman who wanted to rent a womb of her domestic help since she was too busy to get pregnant. I didn’t agree but she approached another clinic and had the baby too,” Khastagir said.
 
 Simple arithmetic states Johar’s surrogate must have been pregnant sometime in June/July last year, which was before the Cabinet passed the bill on August 24. Inspired by Johar, what if someone unmarried or in a same-sex relationship wants to opt for surrogacy? “It’s a dicey situation. I’d probably seek advice from a legal cell before going ahead,” Aggarwal added.
 
 Single men are not entertained by Mukherjee. “Karan Johar might inspire gay men in Kolkata. But Kolkata doctors, especially after what has been happening in the medical world since last week, won’t get into any grey zone,” the doctor said.
 
 
