BENGALURU: Having promised farmers that their loans up to the tune of Rs 50,000 will be waived in the light of two back-to-back drought years, the   government is now looking at truncating existing populist schemes to manage the state's financial position. 

 Senior officials said the government will have to "rationalize" existing populist schemes to fund the   pegged at Rs 8,165 crore. From   to Shaadi Bhagya, the   government has formulated a sizeable number of populist schemes which have already put pressure on the increasing budget outlay.
 
 With a cumulative liability of Rs 2,42,420 crore by the end of 2017-18, of which over Rs 1 lakh crore was borrowed under the current dispensation, the state cannot afford to go out of its way to ensure that existing populist schemes continue in the same fashion, and add another Rs 8,165 crore to its liabilities.
 
 The result is a cut in allocations to populist schemes to compensate the Rs 8,165 crore to be repaid to cooperative banks in the state. Confirming this, additional chief secretary (finance) I S N Prasad said: "We will have to economize on the existing schemes and find ways to repay farmer loans."
 
 According to Prasad, unlike states like   and Uttar Pradesh which announced Rs 10,000 crore and Rs 36,000 crore farmer loan waivers, the Karnataka government's decision to waive Rs 50,000 per farmer is much more prudent and sensible. "While we don't know how Punjab and Uttar Pradesh will manage such huge sums of loan waiver, the Rs 8,000-odd crore waiver in a budget outlay of Rs 1.86 lakh crore is certainly doable," he said.
 
  Meanwhile, it is said the government will be looking at splitting the loan waiver over two fiscals for efficient management of finances. 
 
  For the current fiscal, the government will be looking at repayment of Rs 4,000 crore, with the rest to be repaid to banks in the next fiscal. 
 
 The primary reason for the state taking such liberty is the fact that farmers have a 12-month cycle of repayment of loans. With the government order coming in July, the state will repay loans of farmers whose dues are to be paid at the beginning of this fiscal, and the rest are to be paid for those who are due by the end of 2017-18.
 
