NEW DELHI: Home minister   on Tuesday strongly defended BJP’s decision to form governments in 
  and 
  despite finishing behind   on the ground that being the single largest party is not enough if the numbers cannot be rallied.

 Singh dismissed Congress’s allegations that   is hijacking the mandate in the two states. “These are all baseless allegations,” he told the media. “He ( ) will prove majority in the Goa floor test. He will move the confidence motion within the given time.”
 
 The argument was elaborated by finance minister   in a blog where he said the Congress’s argument of not being invited to form the government in Goa was baseless as it was in minority.
 
 He cited examples of the 2013 assembly elections in Delhi, the 2002 polls in J&K and the 2005 Jharkhand elections where BJP was not called despite being the largest party. “Congress has been protesting that it should have been invited by the governor of Goa to have its leaders sworn. 
 
 But it has neither elected a leader nor has it till date made any claim before the governor of Goa,” Jaitley said. On the other hand, BJP’s Manohar Parrikar has the support of 21 MLAs and would prove his majority.
 
 “There is a clear alliance of 21, which is a majority, who appeared in person before the governor and who have also given letters of support, how could the governor have invited a minority when there is a majority claim,” he asked.
 
 Urban development minister M   questioned the Congress protest in Manipur and Goa and said the “party has no moral right to do so”. “Congress has dismissed non-Congress governments umpteen times in the past misusing powers and Article 356.
 
 It did not allow the largest party to form the government (in the past),” he said.
 
 Reacting to the   
  and ordering a floor test on March 16, Jaitley said the apex court was “right” as “sooner it (the floor test) happens the better it is, because then there is no horse trading”. “The SC has said that you immediately establish the majority which is a right verdict,” he said.
 
 “I want to ask what happened in 2005 in Jharkhand. The then Governor Sibte Razi had invited Shibu Soren though the single largest party was BJP. But JMM was called to form the government at the behest of the Congress. 
 
 In Bihar also Governor   did not invite BJP-JD (U) alliance, despite it having almost majority,” said Naidu, hitting out at Congress.
 
