PUNE: The   has ruled that an insurance firm cannot be faulted for rejecting a claim against an accidental damage to a second-hand vehicle if the owner fails to get the   transferred in his name from the previous one. 

 Section 157 of the Motor Vehicle (MV) Act provides for a 14-day grace period to the subsequent owner to get such a transfer done after the vehicle is registered in his name in the   (RTO) books.
 
 On January 10, consumer court bench dismissed a complaint by Pimple Gurav resident Vasant Gaikwad, who alleged deficiency in service on the part of   for rejecting his claim of Rs 1.43 lakh against repairs of his car on “flimsy grounds”. 
 
 Gaikwad had purchased a second-hand Zen Estilo from Neelam N Shrivastava on January 6, 2014. Shrivastava had secured a comprehensive insurance policy for the car from the insurance company that was valid until July 29, 2014. Gaikwad’s name was entered in the RTO books as the car’s owner but he did not get the insurance policy transferred in his name.
 
 The car was damaged in an accident on March 2, 2014, following which Gaikwad lodged an FIR with Daund police.
 
 Later, Gaikwad carried out car repairs at an authorized service centre which gave him an estimate for Rs 1.43 lakh to seek reimbursement from the insurance company.
 
 In his complaint, Gaikwad argued that his name was entered in the RTO record and so it should be presumed that the insurance policy was also transferred in his name.
 
 However, lawyers representing the insurance company argued that it was a case of own damage. The subsequent owner (Gaikwad) had no insurable interest. The insurance company cited Section 157 of MV Act, arguing that if the ownership was transferred and recorded in the register of RTO, only a third party could have made a complaint. 
 
 The bench relied on a 2014 ruling by the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in a case of Section 157 of the MV Act not complied with. “The complainant has failed to transfer the insurance policy in his name. Hence, he cannot take the benefit of insurance policy which was obtained by the previous owner... The complainant has failed to comply with provisions of Section 157 of MV Act. As such, the repudiation of the claim by the insurance firm is justified. The complaint is devoid of merit and deserves to be dismissed,” the bench ruled. 
 
