Presenting the Chennai Times   2016. With hot bodies, sexy smiles and charming personalities, these men are everything desirable. Catch them if you can, ladies! 

 
 Silambarasan aka Simbu aka STR ' well, this name evokes two kinds of responses from the people in the state. One section is in awe of his talents and good looks, while the other hates him because of the rumours and the controversies that seem to follow him. An outspoken star, Simbu has never shied away from expressing his thoughts; perhaps that's the reason why he has garnered an extremely loyal fan base here that stood by him even when he hardly had any film releases for almost three years, and had a tough time during the Beep Song controversy.
 
 
 Claim to fame: Dhanush, who connects well with movie buffs across all age groups, gave the masses a thrilling film, Kodi, in which he pulled off his first double-role act with elan
 Relationship Status: Married to Aishwaryaa R Dhanush 
 Desirability Quotient: There's no way you can miss that raw sex appeal. Add to that his dapper looks, and you have a drool-worthy 
 package
 
 
 Claim to fame: Anirudh's songs again topped the music charts in 2016, and his collaboration with Grammy-winner Diplo also created buzz
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability quotient: His voice, his lean-mean frame, cheekbones, ready smile and his easy unaffected ways
 
 
 Claim to fame: He had the most number of releases last year and portrayed a variety of characters in each one. He won praises from both fans and critics equally for the roles he essayed in 2016. 
 Relationship Status: Married to Jessy
 Desirability Quotient: Those eyes! His rustic, rugged charm and the fact that he is at once tough and soft. Go figure!
 
 
 Claim to fame: With two big successes last year ' Rajini Murugan and Remo ' he upped his stature a notch higher as the next big star in Kollywood 
 Relationship Status: Married to Aarthi
 Desirability Quotient: Boyish good looks, a healthy mop that he styles well, and the general gay abandon in his demeanour
 
 
 Claim to fame: Undoubtedly, 2016 was a year of highs for this offie for several reasons including, being named the ICC Cricketer of the Year, ICC Test Cricketer of the Year and for the fact that he broke many records
 Relationship Status: Married to Prithi Narayanan
 Desirability Quotient: Added to his never-give up attitude on field, his tall and fit physique make him one of the   Indian cricketers
 
 
 Claim to fame: Besides his films, he has silently created awareness on fitness through his encouraging tweets. If not on the set, you will find him cycling on ECR
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Light eyes, super-fit bod, his lover-boy image. What more can one want?
 
 
 Claim to fame: He was at his acting best in both Thozha and Kaashmora. His first outing as a baddie, sporting a bald look, in Kaashmora showcased him as quite a versatile actor 
 Relationship Status: Married to Ranjini Chinnaswamy
 Desirability Quotient: Quintessential good-boy looks, urbane,sharp dresser
 
 
 Claim to fame: Former Mr. India and a celebrity fitness trainer, he's also quite the outdoorsy, sporty kinds 
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: He's all muscles and well-toned abs, and this hot bod loves holidays on the beach. Bliss, or what!
 
 
 Claim to fame: His Malayalam film, Premam, went on to win the hearts of many in Chennai, too. This year, the handsome hunk will be more active in Kollywood
 Relationship Status: Married to Rinna Joy
 Desirability Quotient: His boyish charm, stylish beard and million-dollar smile make women dream about him all day! Sinfully delicious and all swag
 
 
 Claim to fame: He turned a hero among TN youngsters for initiating jallikattu movement. The versatile musician will also be debuting as an actor with Meesaya Murukku. In 2016, he also made a mark in Tollywood by composing music for Dhruva 
 Relationship Status: Seeing someone
 Desirability Quotient: His murukku meesai and intense look
 
 
 Claim to fame: His role in Bangalore Naatkal was such an intense one and gave him scope to prove his acting chops. And he lived up to the expectations of the makers and fans. His role of a reckless king in B'hubali: The Conclusion is much awaited by fans. 
 Relationship Status: Single 
 Desirability Quotient: He pulls off the macho look like nobody else. Have you seen that sculpted bod? 
 
 
 Claim to fame: He took the unconventional route with his role in Jil Jung Juk. He also got the appreciation of masses for acting in a horror comedy, Aranmanai 2 
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Deadly eyes, killer smile, and we love that jawline. The confidence and some bit of cockiness enhance his desirability
 
 
 Claim to fame: With back-to-back hits, Thani Oruvan and Miruthan, he is riding the success wave 
 Relationship Status: Married to Aarthi 
 Desirability Quotient: We'd say those broad shoulders, cute dimples and sharp eyes. Don't you agree with us? 
 
 
 Claim to fame: He essayed the role of a reporter in Kanithan with elan. His next film, Imaikkaa Nodigal, with Nayanthara is the most anticipated one this year 
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: There's a body that has been perfected by hours of gruelling regimen. His physique gets attention right away
 
 
 Claim to fame: He has been in the limelight for his works in the Nadigar Sangam and for taking on the Tamil Film Producers' Council. 
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: His tall physique, dark complexion and killer attitude make him a ladies man
 
 
 Claim to fame: He has walked the ramp for some of the most well-known designers in the country. The tall hunk is also foraying into the Tamil film industry with the movie, Oru Kuppai Kathai
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Swag and Sujo are synonyms. He can make heads turn with his fashion sense. Moreover, he makes everything look good on him
 
 
 Claim to fame: From being a comedian, he tasted success as a hero and has a slew of projects, including one with director Selvaraghavan
 Relationship Status: Married to Usha 
 Desirability Quotient: His charming persona and his toned body are sure winners. He has definitely upped his style game
 
 
 Claim to fame: His role in Yennai Arindhaal opened up his career prospects across industries. Look out for his two action-packed films that will be coming out this year
 Relationship Status: Married to Aarathi Mohan
 Desirability Quotient: His sculpted body and macho looks win him all the brownie points, we think 
 
 
 Claim to fame: You cannot take your eyes off this hottie when he is on the track. Off the track as well. The racer has become a popular catch among girls
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: He has the lover-boy charm that no girl can resist. His confidence and charming smile will make any girl fall for him
 
 
 Claim to fame: With five films in his kitty, this actor is definitely the next big thing to look out for this year. The highlight is that he will be seen playing a negative role in Mahesh Babu-Murugadoss' film 
 Relationship Status: Married to Jeshly Joshua
 Desirability Quotient: Have you seen the man dancing? He also sports a toned bod that screams out loud that this 'boy' has turned into a man
 
 
 Claim to fame: He is no longer the Amul baby that he was in his debut movie, VIP. With a Hollywood film in his kitty, this jaunty man is here to stay
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Those piercing eyes and striking smile can do magic on women! We hear he is a perfect gentleman, too
 
 
 Claim to fame: Anything to do with racing and you cannot miss this stunner. 
 Relationship Status: Single 
 Desirability Quotient: He knows how to rev up and get the adrenaline rushing
 
 
 Claim to fame: His transition from television to the big screen is commendable. We cannot wait to watch the actor in a film alongside Trisha. 
 Relationship Status: Married to Sriranjani Sundaram
 Desirability Quotient: That deep voice, smart moustache and sharp eyes are such a turn-ons
 
 
 Claim to fame: He is that cute neighbour you have been crushing on all along. From Mollywood to Kollywood, he has got his movie strategy well-planned
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: That pleasing smile and alluring personality are enough to make him desirable
 
 
 
 
 
