MARGAO:   minister Rohan Khaunte on Thursday announced “Saturday courts” will be soon started at the   to hear and decide on the pending   and   cases. The move is a sequel to the recent amendment to the Goa Tenancy Act which has reverted these cases to the mamlatdar  . 

 Addressing reporters after chairing a meeting with all MLAs and ministers from South Goa at the South Goa collectorate, Khaunte said that “with a view to ensure time-bound disposal of the cases, a case monitoring software has been designed which will soon be introduced in the state and the cases will be monitored at various levels.” 
 
 Stating that the interactive meeting with legislators was aimed at addressing various issues raised by them in the recent assembly session pertaining to their constituencies, Khaunte said that effective steps have been taken by the government to streamline the administrative affairs of the state. 
 
 “The focus will be on the ease of doing business for the common man. The e-district module that has been introduced in the administration is aimed at reducing human interface in delivery of services. The system is being monitored on a daily basis by the collector and myself,” Khaunte said. 
 
 On the issue of regularization of illegal constructions on private lands, Khaunte said that the process has already been set in motion in South Goa with teams having been defined at taluka level for the purpose. 
 
 He further announced that a Citizens’ Service Centre will be set up at the South Goa collectorate by the first week of October. The centre will cater to the citizens’ requirement of various certificates like divergence, caste, residence, etc. 
 
 Replying to a query, Khaunte said that necessary steps would be taken, including forming teams and courses, to promote digital literacy in the villages. 
 
 Earlier at the interactive meeting with legislators from South Goa, in which senior administrative officials were also present, MLAs raised various issues and sought the government’s attention in resolving them. 
 
