MUMBAI: The   Science Laboratory in Kalina has been asked to carry out a   profiling of Debashish Dhara, prime suspect in the   and   of a 24-year-old   in  , on a priority basis. Sources said the report is likely to be ready by Friday. 

 Apart from him, DNA profiles of at least a dozen suspects are being scrutinized at the Kalina laboratory to zero in on the man who raped and killed the victim in December 2016 and set her mezzanine floor home on fire. The lab has received more than 50 samples for DNA profiling in the case. 
 
 A source close to the investigation said, “Dhara’s samples were sent to the laboratory on Wednesday itself, soon after his arrest. Even with the blood samples, it could take up to two days plus an additional day to interpret the results or run a confirmatory test. We should know by Friday whether his DNA has matched the blood and semen samples recovered from the victim’s body.”
 
 Incidentally, cops submitted blood samples of two more suspects to the Kalina lab the same day they nabbed Dhara. Investigators have extensively relied on digital technology to enhance the picture quality that was retrieved from one of the CCTVs to identify the suspect’s face. They scanned images from 89 CCTVs installed at various locations and went through call detail records of mobile phones in and around the scene of the crime that day before zeroing in on suspects.
 
 “Dhara is a hard nut to crack. We are awaiting the DNA analysis report from FSL on Friday,” said a Vile Parle police officer. Footage from around 65 CCTVs was collected from the Vile Parle locality and the rest, a total of 24, from different railway stations between Dadar and Virar between December 5 and 7. “An informer, who is known to the accused, helped in identifying the suspect. From the jewellery store where he was employed, we got details of his native hometown in West Bengal. He was found in hiding when the police team reached,” said an investigator. He will be produced before court on Saturday. 
 
 
