NEW DELHI: For the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test on May 7, the Central Board of Secondary Education is not leaving anything to chance. Apprehensive about the examinees resorting to unfair means, the board has issued a number of dos and don’ts, among which, strangely for an exam, is a ban on entering the test centre with pens and pencils.

 Among other things, candidates also have to adhere to a dress code designed to prevent any item of clothing being used as an illegal aid to the examinee. Male students are disallowed from wearing kurta-pyjama or shoes and allowed only light-coloured jeans, trousers and half-sleeved shirts with sandals or  . For female candidates, big buttons, brooches and high-heeled shoes are similarly proscribed.
 
 The candidates will not be allowed to carry writing implements or erasers into the exam hall. According to CBSE officials, pens will be provided to the candidates by the board once he or she enters the test centre.
 
 These guidelines came into effect in July 2015 after the Supreme Court asked the board to hold afresh the All India Pre-Medical/ Dental Test (replaced by   in 2016) following allegations of large scale irregularities in the exam organised a month earlier. A special investigation by Haryana in a paper leak incident had exposed a network of racketeers in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan.
 
 “Since then, these guidelines have been followed even at the Joint Entrance Examination (Main) for engineering courses and JEE-Advanced for IITs,” explained Sanyam Bhardwaj, director, NEET. “Even the Union Public Service Commission and Railway Board have adopted similar protocols for their exams.”
 
 Bhardwaj recalled that some candidates in earlier exams had turned up in the “wrong dress”, but were allowed into the test hall after changing into a fresh set of clothes. The NEET director said, “The dress code has been suggested to ensure that during frisking, the students do not need to stand in the queue for a long time in the hot weather.”
 
 Over 11 lakh candidates have registered for NEET 2017. “All the clocks at exam centres will be synced with the CBSE website’s time. Though the aspirants cannot carry watches into the halls, they need to follow the CBSE timings,” added Bhardwaj.
 
 The candidates are also being advised to visit their respective exam centres a day earlier on Saturday to familiarise themselves with the traffic volume, and the route and distance they have to travel.
 
 
