PATNA: The JD(U), led by chief minister  , mounted pressure on   on Friday to ask his son and deputy CM   to resign and disclose their sources of income for acquiring huge assets, which are on the radar of the CBI and  . 

 Following a pinching statement by RJD MLA from Maner Bhai Birendra on Thursday that RJD has 80 MLAs in the state assembly and the party is in the “big brother” role in the Grand Alliance government in Bihar, JD(U) spokespersons reminded the Lalu party that their seats increased from 22 in 2010 assembly elections to 80 in 2015 only because of Nitish’s face as the alliance leader.
 
 JD(U) spokesperson Ajay Alok went to the extent of saying that it would not take more than five minutes for his party to quit the government. “Nitish is the leader of the Grand Alliance, no one else. Those who are boasting of having 80 MLAs should not show arrogance. Let there be no confusion; it will not take us even 5 minutes to quit the government, power,” Alok said. 
 
 “They (RJD) should recall the 2010 election results. All legislators are members of the Grand Alliance, which is being led by Nitish. Our intention should be to serve people and not to amass properties. They should answer to the corruption charges levelled against them in the FIR lodged by the CBI,” Alok said.
 
 Another JD(U) spokesman Neeraj Kumar said, “They (Lalu family) should explain the sources of the massive properties and money as questions have been raised on it by the opposition. They should answer whether the properties, including the mall and land are owned by them or not. It is imperative for them to come out clean as the zero tolerance stance of Grand Alliance on corruption is crystal clear.” 
 
 JD(U) MLC Sanjay Singh, who is also the chief spokesperson of the party, said there would some “action” once Nitish breaks his silence. “The RJD should avoid threatening manoeuvres by boasting of its 80 MLAs. It is because of Nitish’s face that you (RJD) could enter the Vidhan Sabha (assembly). People should wait; there will be some action when Nitish breaks his silence,” Sanjay said. 
 
 Meanwhile, RJD seemed to be on the back foot and advised JD(U) not to fall in the BJP “trap”. “Lalu ji has already given the explanation for his properties and other allegations levelled against him. The JD(U) should not fall into the BJP trap as this entire episode has been hatched by the saffron party,” RJD spokesman Manoj Jha said. 
 
