The weekend began on a tragic note for the racing fraternity as it lost one of its most prominent and talented  s, Ashwin Sundar, and his wife  , died in a car crash in the wee hours of Saturday .   was a Formula National Champion in 2012 and 2013. His high-end car rammed into a tree on Santhome High Road and got stuck between the tree and a wall. Soon, the car caught fire and the couple was charred to death. The racing world shared some fond memories of him with CT...

 I've known him ever since he began his career. We were teammates for the longest time in go-karting and then we raced together in Germany for a year. To me, he was one of the finest drivers I had ever seen from India and was an extremely fierce competitor. I never imagined that I would wake up to hear such shocking news. I will be visiting his family in the next couple of days. 
 
 
 
 Of course, I have only fond memories of him. We started racing together in 2004. We both were the same age as well, just two months apart. It's really unfortunate that this happened. What else to say? Really a saddening news.
 
 
 
 
 It was quite shocking to hear the news yesterday morning. I immediately called up my friends and checked how the incident happened. Usually , high-end cars are equipped in such a way that passengers can escape easily . But in this case, since the car caught fire, it would have distorted the shell and prevented the doors from opening. The spilling of fuel could have ignited the fire. I followed Ashwin in his last few races at Kari Motor Speedway in Coimbatore, and was quite impressed with his style and racing. We used to bump into each other at least 4-5 times a year on the track. He was a top-notch competitor and an extremely bright kid. His demise is a great loss to Indian motorsports.
 
 
 
 
 I've known him from the day he stepped on to the racing track.The entire motorsports community is completely shocked after hearing this news.This incident again reiterates the thing that race is on the track and not on roads. For the family, this is the most tragic way to lose two children. I've seen the videos and pictures, this shouldn't have happened to anyone.
 
 
 
 Ashwin and I both started racing from the age of 9. We used to go go-karting and fight to get into same kart. We were very com petitive when we were small. In fact, he used to win many races and help me with his racing tricks and techniques back then. He was not only a good racer, but an extremely helpful person. We have been fami ly friends for years. He will be missed by every person in Indian motorsport.
 
 
 
 
 It's really pathetic that such a tragic incident happened. It's unusual that the car's doors couldn't unlock after it crashed into a tree.All top-end cars are equipped to unlock during a crash. It could have probably been an electrical malfunction. The airbags, too, would have opened at that time and wearing seatbelts could have restricted their movement. In such panic situations, people do not know what to do. The best option is to break open a window and ask for help. But since it was early in the morning, they may not have found help, too.
 
 
 
 
