MUMBAI: Special public prosecutor   on Monday argued that charges be framed against artist   and four other accused for the murder of his estranged wife Hema Upadhyay and her lawyer   on December 12, 2015. The case is based on  , said Nikam, but with ‘clinching circumstances to show that Chintan as involved in the criminal conspiracy’.

 Chintan is in prison since his arrest on December 22, 2015. Nikam began and completed his arguments on Monday before sessions judge F M Khwaja at the Dindoshi sessions court. He cited the confession statement of co-accused Pradeep Rajbhar who ascribed to Chintan the role of lead conspirator. Though Rajbhar has since retracted his confession, Nikam said at the time of framing a charge, the court has to see what the prima facie case is and not go into the evidence of the case.
 
 The prosecutor also relied on and cited that the cellphone tower location data revealed that Chintan was present in Chembur before the murder on December 8. He drew the court’s attention to various other ‘incriminating circumstances’, including the statement of Poonam Bhambhani, the lawyer’s widow. She had informed the police that Hema had come to their Colaba residence the previous night and expressed an apprehension on Chintan’s sudden insistence at staying at their Juhu home. Chintan and Hema were estranged after a divorce granted on his plea by the family court, but an appeal was pending in the high court. Chintan mostly stayed in Delhi, but had come to Mumbai and Hema said he had stayed for over eight days from December 1, 2015. Nikam added that there is a ‘caricature’ which Hema had said says, “I will destroy you” and referred to a social media post by Chintan which mentions the song “Alvida”.
 
 Chintan’s advocate Bharat Manghani sought time as three witness statements that were denied to him after the prosecution said they did not form a part of the chargesheet, were in fact mentioned in the chargesheet. He sought time to avail other legal remedies before starting arguments on  . The court granted time till July 28. Once the court frames charges, the trial is set to begin.
 
 
