NOIDA: Residents of   clashed with police after a police vehicle allegedly ran over an elderly woman’s foot and rammed a mobike on Friday night.

 The incident happened around 9.30pm on Sunday when a girl staying in a rented accommodation in the village called up the police complaining that some youths were harassing her by passing lewd comments on her when they were passing   on Gali No. 1.
 
 After getting the call transferred by the UP 100 control room in Lucknow, the   reached the spot with a police response vehicle (PRV) and tried to arrest the accused, one Tinu Chauhan. However, the relatives of the accused and other villagers resisted the police’s attempts to detain the accused.
 
 “As the PRV arrived at the spot, the villagers, including the village head, started resisting the detention. As the three policemen in the PRV sought help, a PCR 28 vehicle from Phase III police station was sent to the spot,” SP (City) Arun Kumar told TOI.
 
 On their part, the villagers claimed that the UP 100 vehicle left the spot as soon as the girl reached a compromise with the accused.
 
 As soon as the PCR vehicle arrived at the spot (UP 16 G0251), the relatives of the accused and some other villagers surrounded the PCR and one of them even parked his vehicle in front of the van.
 
 “The police were trying to detain our relative despite the girl having withdrawn her complaint. The PCR vehicle ran over my mother’s foot and also hit the bike belonging to Robin Chauhan, Tinu’s cousin,” Mithun Chauhan, a Mamura resident present at the spot said.
 
 In a video clip of the incident doing the rounds, the driver of the PCR Arjun Pundir is seen surrounded by a number of villagers who are hurling expletives and saying that the policemen are fleeing the spot after hitting the biker and injuring the woman. 
 
 Some even said that the policemen are drunk.
 
 A case has been lodged against Sunder and Amardeep under sections 354 (outraging modesty of woman) and 354 D (stalking) of IPC based on the complaint of the girl. The police also lodged a case against the two and some unknown persons under sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) and 393 (attempt to commit robbery) of IPC.
 
