KOLKATA: Seventeen-year-old Rima Pathak was apparently healthy till two years ago when she had to be rushed to hospital with excessive  . It was revealed that the problem was triggered by a  , which, if not operated upon immediately, could lead to sudden   After running from one hospital to another, Pathak finally underwent a correctional surgery in   on Monday. She will be discharged in a day or two.

 The Class-XII student from Burrabazar suffers from cor triatriatum, in which the patient is born with five chambers in the heart instead of the normal four. The left atrium (cor traitriatum sinistrum) or the right atrium (cor traitraitum dextrum) is subdivided by a thin membrane, resulting in three chambers instead of two.
 
 This condition represents only 0.1% of all congenital heart defects. While cor triatriatum sinisturm is more common, Pathak was suffering from cor triatriatum dextrum, which meant she had three atria.
 
 “Two years ago, my daughter had to be admitted in the ICU at Marwari Relief Society Hospital because of accumulation of fluid in the lungs. Once her condition stabilized, doctors told us to take her to a better facility for further treatment,” said her father Mahendra Pathak, a security guard at an apartment.
 
 The family, originally from Varanasi, took the girl to the Institute of Medical Science at Benaras Hindu University. The fluid was taken out by doctors and the heart defect was detected. Though doctors advised immediate correctional surgery, they admitted they did not have the facility and suggested SSKM Hospital.
 
 Pathak was admitted in the cardiothoracic and vascular surgery department under Dr Shantanu Dutta. A team of surgeons comprising Debajyoti Mandal, Shantanu Dutta and Chaina Pal, along with anaethesists Kakali Ghosh and Sushmit, operated upon Pathak on January 30. The membrane in the atrium was excised through cardio pulmonary bypass.
 
 “Prior to the surgery, the patient had recurrent respiratory distress. The recurrent pericardial and pleural effusion she suffered were signs of impending heart failure. If not operated upon, the patient could have had sudden cardiac death,” said Mandal.
 
 
