NAGPUR: The Umred-Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary (UKWS) project-affected persons (PAPs) Action   has demanded faster relocation of   village bordering the sanctuary and has threatened to stop tourism from all gates in the sanctuary.

 Recently, the committee members met divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar and urged him to complete the relocation before onset of monsoon ie by June. Rs 47.59 crore have already been released for the task.
 
 Ranbodi is the only village inside the sanctuary having 350 families. If relocated, 750 acres of farm and village land will be added to the sanctuary. A survey of land and assets was conducted by revenue department officials on May 26, 2016.
 
 Villagers claim they have been living under constant fear of tigers. The incident on February 3, when a tiger entered the courtyard of villager Baby Kumre in the evening, was the last straw. Though there have been cattle kills and sporadic cases of man-animal conflict, after the February 3 incident, villagers submitted a memorandum to guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and sought his intervention.
 
 Committee secretary Istari Narule told TOI, “All 350 families are ready to move out under Option 1 (Rs 10 lakh per family package). The gram sabha resolution has already been submitted to divisional forest officer (DFO) SB Bhalavi.” Under Option 1 package it is not binding on the department to offer land to PAPs. If offered land, its cost has to be deducted from package money. The villagers have demanded 15.75 hectares   land on the outskirts of Umred.
 
 Wildlife spokesperson & DFO GK Vashishtha says, “We are ready to take up relocation. The delay has been caused by villagers themselves who made demands like jobs, plots etc that are not part of the package.”
 
 Bhalavi confirmed that the relocation proposal had already been forwarded to the district collector. The process is going on. However, chief wildlife warden’s office is not aware of any such proposal. FDCM officials confirmed Ranbodi villagers had demanded their land.
 
 The villagers are up in arms and want speedy relocation as life has become difficult for them. “We can’t even shift sick people to hospital during night. Many times, villagers come within dangerous distance of wild animals on Ranbodi main road,” said villagers Parmeshwar Meshram and Digamber Thakre.
 
