JAIPUR: Sixty to seventy percent of   in the state will come from  's past high   till 2026. The rest of 30-40% will grow due to the still   (TFR) in the state which stands at 2.4 as against the national TFR of 2.2. 

 Rajasthan is facing dual challenges - reducing existing high TFR (average number of children expected to be born per woman during her reproductive years) and coping with the 'population momentum'. The state is emphasising on control-focused policies and programmes, but it is high time to lay equal focus on momentum-focused policies and programmes as 60 to 70% of population in the state is growing due to momentum achieved from high fertility levels in the past.
 
 To understand population momentum, imagine brakes being applied to a fast-moving car. The thrust of the car will continue to push forward the vehicle for some distance, before it finally comes to a halt. 'Population Momentum' works quite the same way.
 
 At the beginning of the past decade, a family had 3.2 children on an average, but now it has 2.4 in the state. The state is quite close to achieving replacement fertility, which is 2.1 children per woman. However, its population is likely to keep growing, even after each couple restricts child bearing to replacement levels.
 
 For India as a whole, 75% of population growth in the coming decade will be due to momentum which in turn has come from India's past high fertility levels. Eventually, as the large cohorts of young people move out of reproductive ages, population growth will transit towards stabilization. This is likely to take at least another 5 decades, and experts expect population growth rates to drop to zero by 2070. Thereafter, total population is likely to shrink, says UNFPA's calculation based on studies conducted by experts of population studies.
 
 India's fertility transition is diverse. States such as Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal have already achieved replacement fertility and their growth in the coming decade will be entirely due to momentum. But, it is not in the case of Rajasthan. The population growth in the state will be due to momentum and also due to high TFR (2.4), which is still prevalent in the state.
 
 "Population growth can be slowed by delaying childbearing. This can come from delaying marriage, delaying the first birth, and by increasing the spacing between children. Fertility reduction, where it still needs to take place, can come from increased availability of quality family planning services. This must be done in conjunction with schemes that educate girls, empower women and enable them to delay marriage and childbearing," said Diego Palacios, country representative, UNFPA India. 
 
 This year, the   coincides with the London Summit on Family Planning. At this important meet, governments from around the world will reaffirm their FP2020 commitments to expand access to family planning information, services, and supplies to an additional 120 million women and girls by 2020, across 69 countries. India is one of the principal protagonists of the FP2020 Action Plan, and has its own FP2020 vision document. 
 
 This important document states that for Vision FP2020, India will provide contraceptive services to an additional 48 million users. Thus, this country is poised to play a very important role in helping the world stabilize population growth, through rights-based approaches, and by helping people take informed decisions on family planning. 
 
 
