PUNE: A civil court here has directed Surat police commissioner to produce a   man and his four-year-old son before the court on or before August 1 in a suit filed by his wife for divorce and   of the child. 

 The woman, also a Parsi from Pune, married the man from a village near Surat on December 5, 2011. The   had a son, who was born on May 7, 2013. Three years later, the woman moved to Pune and filed a civil suit under the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, seeking a divorce on the grounds of physical and mental torture. She sought custody of her son, alleging that her husband forcibly took him away from her.
 
 The husband too has filed a suit in the district court, Surat, for restitution of conjugal rights, accusing the wife of using their son as a shield to grab his property. It is pending.
 
 The husband has so far resisted her bid to secure the child’s custody despite the Pune district court’s order on October 17 last year to hand over the child to the wife till final disposal of the suit. The Bombay HC upheld the Pune court’s decision on March 14 this year and the   too dismissed the husband’s special leave petition on April 10 against the high court’s order.
 
 Before the SC’s order, the district court had asked the Surat police on March 18 to bring the man and the child to Pune, but it could’n be implemented. A judicial magistrate first class in Pune has issued a search warrant for the child, which too could not be executed. 
 
 In an order on July 10, Pune’s principal district judge S M Modak observed, “I am constrained to opine that the defendant (father) is hesitant to comply with the order for some reason or the other. Certainly, this court has to decide his applications (for transfer of the case to a court in Surat and for rejection of the suit), but that does not justify the conduct of the defendant in not complying with the earlier order.”
 
 The husband’s lawyer had argued that the court ought to first decide the pending applications for transfer of the suit to the district court in Surat and for rejection of the suit filed by the wife before passing any order giving effect to the October 17, 2016 order regarding custody of the child. The district court, however, pointed out that the issue of jurisdiction was not raised in the transfer application and the HC too had upheld this view while dismissing the husband’s plea. 
 
 It asked the Surat police chief to ensure that the order is implemented this time.
 
