BENGALURU: The trunkfuls of demonetized notes tumbling out of caches during police action in Bengaluru may not be an indication of a thriving exchange racket, but plain robbery attempts targeting those hoarding legit currency using banned notes. Close to Rs 15 crore   of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 face value have been seized during three busts in the past few days in the city. 

 Investigations have not been able to give a clear picture of how people are getting their old currencies converted as suspected earlier, police said. The theory that the RBI provision allowing NRIs and Indians, who were not in the country between November 8, 2016 and December 30, 2016 to exchange old notes up to June 30, 2017, could be used by racketeers seems impossible given the stringent verification exercise of RBI and   (  Management Act) regulations. Police are probing the involvement of banks, but so far there have been no concrete evidence to support this angle. 
 
 According to officers, interrogation of the arrested men indicated the demonetized currency was being used for cheating, rather than actual conversion. Officers in know of Saturday’s raid, when currency with face value of Rs 9.1 crore was seized and 14 people were arrested, said the offers of conversion are being used for getting large sums of money out, for robbery.
 
 “Saturday’s raid was to have two parties meeting at a location – those carrying new notes and the other carrying demonetized notes – for exchange organized by a group of middlemen. We wanted to arrest both the parties to understand the modus operandi, but only the middlemen and those with old currency turned up at the location,” one officer said.
 
 A chain-snatching incident near the building where the raid was to happen foiled their plan as those with the new notes didn’t turn up because of heightened police presence in the area. Finally, police had to arrest the men as they were about to leave.
 
 The middlemen have confided that the plan was to get some people dressed in police uniform come and confiscate both the new and old notes. 
 
 “We are keeping a close watch for any information on any such raid to get to the bottom of this scam,” added the officer. 
 
