Every year, when the   takes place in the city, it is not just the exciting matches that are talked about; the fashion show, too, garners much attention. The   stars themselves walk the ramp along with models and that’s the highlight of the show. On Monday, we had six of them, including Indian tennis players   and  , walking the ramp. On the sidelines of the event, the duo spoke to us about fashion, trends and of course, tennis. Excerpts... 
 
 
 
 
  The modern athlete is more of a brand and he/she portrays it all around the globe. And mine is a global sport. Hence, if I am playing at the Wimbledon in all whites or at the US Open in a splash of any other colour which I can use — all that is a fashion statement. But I find that my fashion statement is complete when I stick to the true Indian-ness in me. Fashion, to me, is an expression of oneself. 
 
  Though I don’t really get time to follow fashion and trends much, I like to think of myself as a very fashionable person (laughs). I just like to sport attire that I am comfortable in. People have told me that my ear studs and tattoos look cool on me. In tennis, I feel it is important to market yourself since it is an individual sport. Of course, performance matters most, but a bit of fashion sense gives you that extra mileage. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  Good shoes. That’s really important to me.
 
  My ear studs.
 
 
 
 
  I love trying out different looks. I’ve had long hair, samurai ponytail; I have even been bald for a while, and now it’s the beard. I am enjoying this look. 
 
  Thanks to Movember, I started growing beard from November 1. I realised that it looked good one me, so, I didn’t want to take it off. 
 
 
 
 
  David Beckham is a great role model for us athletes. He epitomises what an athlete, a gentleman and a brand can be. So, he’s the one whom I look up to.
 
  I guess, Rohan Bopanna, my partner for doubles this week, is quite fashionable. He’s got multiple tattoos and he is also rocking his beard look. We’re going to be ‘Team Beard’ (laughs). Feliciano Lopez is also very stylish. Among women athletes, Maria Sharapova always looks incredible in whatever she wears.
 
 
 
 
  I play tennis because I love the sport. Also, I want to get my name in the history books. There are a few things I still have to play for. That’s what keeps me going. And you will see them unfolding.
 
 
 
 
  As we live in a democratic world, everyone has the right to put across their opinions. But when people write me off and say that I am done with my career, I comeback with a Grand Slam win. For, me it’s about my own journey and I enjoy what I do.
 
 
 
 Leander: Not right now. 
 
 
 
 
 : When I first moved to Chennai on May 12 1986, I was only a 12-year-old boy. I studied at the Madras Christian College Higher Secondary School and I practiced tennis at Loyola College. And we lived in Poes Garden. I’ve got lots of friends in Chennai. So, every time I come to Chennai, I feel like I am at home. The weather, the stadium, people — everything is quite familiar to me here. Of course, the city has changed, but one thing that remains the same is the heart of the people. The community of Chennai is a big source of inspiration for all us around the country. In the recent past, the city had witnessed cyclone, flood and tsunami, yet the togetherness of the people has helped the city overcome those difficult times. That’s why I keep coming back to Chennai and play here — to honour the place where I grew up.
 
 
