GHAZIABAD: The imposition of prohibitory orders under   of CrPC following the model code of conduct has given rise to a legal quagmire for residents’ welfare and apartment owners’ associations (RWAs and AOAs) in  .

 On the one hand, Section 144 prohibits the assembly of more than four people in an area, while on the other hand, the UP Apartment Act 2010 makes annual   mandatory. Any RWA that fails to hold its election will be debarred from operational management of the society and delisted for any major financial transactions until the societies registrar revokes the order.
 
 Societies like Shipra Riviera, Angel Mercury, Shipra Sun City and Shipra Windsor Nova were due to hold their elections this month, whereas ATS Advantage was due for its election in December 2016. All these elections have been put on hold.
 
 On December 26, two AOA members of River Heights Society in Raj Nagar Extension were arrested for conducting society elections, because they had violated Section 144, which was in effect.
 
 The legal dilemma prevailed when in another instance, the RWA election process was started at Shipra Riviera Society ahead of the poll due in late January. The nominations were over and the names of the winners were to be declared but the entire process came to a halt by January 5 evening, as a group of residents held protests against the election process and the local police had to intervene. Subsequently, the election was postponed until after February 15, when the state election will be over in Ghaziabad.
 
 Representatives of RWA and AOA bodies across the district objected to the “illogical intervention of the administration and the police in matters of private societal importance”.
 
 Angel Mercury, a residential society located in Ahimsa Khand 2, Indirapuram, which was due for election in the last week of January, has postponed its elections to an indefinite date next month when the state election will be over.
 
 “We don't know what to do. We cannot conduct elections after the RWA’s tenure is over but since 144 has been imposed we are not taking any chances," said Ashok Lavanya, election officer for the election at Angel Mercury. 
 
 
