Chandigarh: The commission of inquiry headed by Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retired), looking into false cases registered in the last 10 years during the SAD-BJP regime in Punjab, is going to submit its second interim report to the state government on October 10 about 200 such cases.

 Constituted by the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government on April 5, the commission, after probing 178 cases, had submitted its first interim report to the chief minister on August 23 recommending action against police officers, a few sarpanchs and complainants, for getting false cases registered. The commission had received over 4,000 complaints.
 
 When contacted, Justice Gill told TOI, “Last date for submission of complaints to the commission was July 31. But we are still receiving many complaints. We are going to hand over the complaints received after July 31 to the Punjab home department for further decision. We’ll look into those complaints only if we are asked to do so.”
 
 Ensuring implementation of the commission’s interim report, the Punjab home department had issued orders on September 6 declaring all the district magistrates, assisted by district attorneys, as nodal officers. All the district magistrates have been directed to submit the follow up action by 25th of every month to the government, through the commission.
 
 Now, after receiving action-taken reports every month, the commission would check whether its recommendations have been implemented by the duty magistrates concerned. The commission, which also has retired district and sessions judge B S Mehandiratta as its member, would then submit these reports to the government with its comments, if required.
 
 Meanwhile, as many complainants are not aware about the appointment of district magistrates as nodal officers, many of them are contacting the commission’s registrar on daily basis to enquire as to whom they should contact for the implementation of commission’s recommendations on their complaints. Justice Gill said those complainants could now approach the district magistrates concerned.
 
 In its first interim report, the commission had mentioned that the Punjab police had accepted before it that as many as 79 FIRs registered in Bathinda district during the 10-year SAD-BJP regime were false.
 
 
