NASHIK: Nashik is all set to house the state's first consumer awareness centre to   of their rights and   of legal and   

 Some private organisations have lent a helping hand to the district legal metrology organisation for the unique project. At the centre, consumers can now learn about different legal aspects of the weights and measures for solid, liquid and gaseous products that one purchases in India.
 
  For instance, if anybody is selling a plot of land or a unit in an apartment complex, then it is absolutely illegal that the plot be measured in square metres. Similarly, according to the rules, a trader has to weigh the sweetmeats that a consumer buys in front of the customer. It is also illegal to sell food packets to buyers where the price tag has been smudged. 
 
 "Our study found 85% cases about the duping of customers occur because of lack of knowledge. A section of unscrupulous traders resort to illegal practices for quick profits as consumers are unaware of legal trade practices. The centre was formed to make consumers aware of these legal rights. They shall get to know of legal and illegal trade systems at a glance and can stress for fair prices in the market,"  , the inspector (legal weights and measures) of the department, the brain behind the project, said.
 
 He said that the department is also making available a common platform to share consumer grievances, ideas and   for customers. This can be used by other consumer organisations and activists as well.
 
 After having moved to its own premises at Maharashtra Engineering and Research Institute (Meri) campus, the legal metrology department has dedicated two rooms at the centre.
 
  In one room, legal and illegal trade practices in different forms are demonstrated in the form of pictures, dos and don'ts and practical knowledge of weights and measures to the consumers. The department also plans on tapping school and college students who can visit the centre and challenge illegal trade practices. 
 
  For the full report, log on to www.timesofindia.com 
 
 This centre will also form an additional hub where consumer movements and activities can be developed. The centre also has a space for activists who can give free legal aid to consumers wishing to challenge injustice and legal metrology. "Not only do we plan to arm consumers with knowledge, but also develop skills in the manner on how to register a complaint, and if required how to contest the same in court. 
 
 This will of course be with help from activists," he said.
 
 The officer also said a large numbers of petroleum, energy companies and chains of retail markets can be the part of this project.
 
 "Events to raise the awareness of consumers shall be organised at regular intervals throughout the year," Rajderkar said.
 
