CHENNAI: It was the end of first half and   (CCFC) were leading 2-0 against I-League champions   in their Federation Cup match in May earlier this year. At the end of the match, though, Aizawl won 3-2. In their next match,   lost 0-2 to East Bengal after dominating the first half. It prompted CCFC owner Rohit Ramesh to scrutinize their performance and the common complaint from CCFC players was exhaustion in the second half.

 In a bid to help his players maintain their fitness levels this season, Rohit tied up with   drinks, a London-based beverage company, for a year. YouthEnergy will come on board as CCFC's beverage partner and will ship their organic drinks directly from London to Chennai every month. "Last season, our players would come out with a lot of aggression but they fell flat in the second half. As a result, we lost plenty of matches. It was a concern for us ahead of the season. Last year, we had talks with YouthEnergy and they showed interest in becoming our beverage partner. But things couldn't materialize because we didn't have much time. This time, it was a no-brainer for us to get them on board," Rohit told TOI on Friday.
 
 The players will start getting accustomed to the fluids when they begin their pre-season next month in Ooty. Rohit informed said that the drinks will vary from defenders to midfielders to strikers depending on the metabolism rate of the players. "During our pre-season, we will be testing the metabolism rate of the players. We will then send the data to the YouthEnergy scientists. They will analyse the facts and figures and prescribe the quantity of drinks the players need during and before and after a match. The drinks will vary from player to player. This entire process will be highly monitored. They might change the drink depending on how a player reacts. At the end of the day, we are using a supplement. But then, we agreed since the drinks are completely organic. Hopefully, this drink will help the player to not only stay hydrated but also maintain their energy at appropriate levels during the entire length of the match," Rohit said.
 
 YouthEnergy has former Arsenal player   as their brand ambassador and this will be their first foray into the Indian market. While there are no financial commitments with the company, Rohit informed they may use the YouthEnergy logo on their jersey. "They are a new company, just like our club. Both of us want to establish ourselves. So we will be their marketing partners in South India. We might use their logo on our jersey apart from some branding in the ground. But there are no monetary transactions involved at this stage," Rohit said.
 
