KOCHI: At a time when the   has slashed the roadcutting rates for IOC Adani Gas Private Limited (IOAGPL), a project by the   (KWA) to provide   for  , remains struck owing to exorbitant road-cutting charges.

 The project to replace the existing supply network of the KWA connecting the pump house at Perumanoor near Thevara with the Thoppumpady pump house is yet to take off as the PWD wanted Rs 2 crore for cutting less than 1km on the MG Road.
 
 Though the KWA has enough water to supply to west Kochi, the   to the area which is around four decades old would burst every now and then if more water is pumped through the line. Then, the KWA designed a project to replace the existing supply line with new pipes in 2014.
 
 “When, we applied for road-cutting sanction from the PWD, they asked us to pay close to Rs 2 crore as road restoration charges for cutting a stretch of around 800 metre. Though we requested them for reducing the rates, they didn't heed to it. The total outlay for implementing the project was less and so we had to drop the project,“ an official with KWA said. Now, KWA is reviving the same project. “We have decided to revise the project using the funds for 2017-18. We have revised the estimates so that we could pay the charges fixed by the PWD,“ a KWA official said.“
 
 “We expect that the work can be implemented without delay this time,“ the official said.
 
 Had the project been implemented, the people in west Kochi could have got adequate drinking water. “The plan was to provide an additional supply of 15 million litres a day (MLD). This would have met the demand for water in areas like Fort Kochi and Mattancherry ,“ said K J Sohan, former mayor. “There is adequate water to provide additional supply to west Kochi after the commissioning of the 100-MLD Maradu Drinking Water Plant,“ Sohan said.
 
 At the same time, works minister G Sudhakaran told TOI that the PWD is charging only a single rate which is applicable for all agencies and individuals applying for road-cutting sanction. “We haven't given low rates for any telecom companies. Our road restoration charges are the same for all agencies like the KWA, the KSEB and telecom service providers,“ Sudhakaran said.
 
 He said that if any official issues an order in favour of any telecom company or private agencies, he or she will be made answerable.
 
