As the city police expands its reach on  , youngsters, especially girls, find it convenient to report incidents of molestation and eve-teasing to the cops using various social networking sites. We find out how youngsters are connecting with the cops to fight the anti-social elements, head-on...

 
 
 With   expanding its reach on social media, youngsters are quick to connect with the cops online to call out for help. Sharing a recent incident, a student of Hislop College, Shailaja Iyer, says, “About a week ago, I was returning home after attending college. When I reached near  , two men, with their faces covered, started to stalk me on a bike. When I stopped at a signal, they came from behind and stopped right next to me. Soon, they started making lewd comments. I immediately took out my phone and clicked their picture and forwarded it to the WhatsApp number of Nagpur police. Within a few minutes, I got a call from the control room and a cop told me to be on call until the patrolling squad reached there for my help. Within six hours, the miscreants were caught by the police; they were traced because of the number plate of their bike in the picture. It is really nice that city police has a strong reach online; it has made it so easy to report such incidents now.”
 
 
 
 The recent connect between the youngsters and the cops has been possible because of strong online presence of the city police. API,  , Vishal Mane, says, “We have a team of 30 policemen scanning social media 24x7. We want more youngsters to join us in our mission to fight crime. So far, our initiative has been a success, and we have managed to catch quite a few criminals, including chain-snatchers who roam on bikes. Due to CCTV cameras installed across the city, it is easier for us to trace these criminals. We will soon launch a phone application for the people, wherein they just have to press the panic button at the app and reach out for help. We will trace their location using GPS and the nearest patrolling squad will reach the spot within minutes.”
 
 
 
 Though this online initiative by the police is getting popular among the youngsters, some of the victims who have reported incidents of molestation and eve-teasing online feel that the police are not quick enough to respond to their complaints. One of the victims, Nagma Sheikh says, “Recently, I was publically groped by a group of teenage boys while I was buying vegetables at Sakkardara market. As soon as I started to shout for help, they fled the spot. I tried calling the police using their helpline number, but nobody responded. I had to report the incident to the Sakkardara police station and all I got was an advice from them to be careful in crowded areas.” When we contacted the Sakkardara police station, PI S Pohankar said, “The police is always there to help people, but in the cases of eve-teasing, it takes time for us to investigate.”
 
 
 
 Many youngsters feel that the online initiative is good, but it can only provide justice to a few who have access to smartphones and internet. On the condition of anonymity, a victim of molestation says, “My family is quite conservative and they don’t allow me to keep smartphones or browse internet. I had to file a complaint with Sadar police station when I was molested recently by some unscrupulous guys.”
 
