KOLKATA: The   (Eastern Zone Bench) will soon hear an application on clogging of drains in Howrah by silt excavated by   (KMRCL) and the pumping of untreated waste water into the   by the latter. Environment activist Subhas Datta filed the application on Monday after receiving permission from the green bench. In the application, Datta claimed that large areas around Howrah’s Church Road continue to remain inundated even when it doesn’t rain as drains are blocked.

 “The entrances of St Thomas Church School, Eastern Railway’s Howrah Orthopaedic Hospital, the railway officers’ enclave at Colvin Court and the Railway Officers’ Club have got inundated. After interactions with locals and KMRCL workmen, I learnt that the silt dug out for the underground tunnel between Howrah Maidan and Mahakaran in Kolkata has blocked the drains, resulting in waterlogging,” Datta submitted in his application.
 
 On May 19, the green activist wrote to the KMRCL managing director, district magistrate and commissioner of police, Howrah. In response to this, the additional district magistrate of Howrah wrote to the KMRCL MD, urging him to take necessary steps. The Howrah DM also convened a meeting in his chamber on June 5 to find a solution to the mess. Though Datta and officials from the administration and Howrah Municipal Corporation were present, there was no representation from KMRCL. During this meeting, it was decided that KMRCL will be asked to build a drain and dig two-tier ponds to deposit the slurry.
 
 “KMRCL has also said that it uses some chemicals/foams for soil conditioning before tunnelling . These chemicals (Bentonite/Polymer) also get discharged in the drains along with the slurry and then flow into the Hooghly, barely 500 metres away. I have found out that Bentonite cannot and should not be discharged without proer treatment. I have also come to know that under Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (DMRCL), proper disposal of Bentonite fluid or material contaminated with Bentonite was the responsibility of the contractor engaged for construction. Unfortunately, no such practice has been followed by KMRCL and they are directly discharging the slurry into the drains, which is not only blocking Howrah’s drainage system but also causing pollution of the Hooghly,” it was submitted in the application.
 
