SHIMLA:   chief minister   has directed the officers of the   to provide adequate compensation to the families which were going to be displaced due to the work on Nagchala-Kullu-Manali four lane road. Since long farmers whose land was being acquired for the four lane project were protesting against the inadequate compensation being paid to them.

 Virbhadra Singh said this while presiding over a meeting recently at Mandi with the senior officers of the Revenue Department and the members of the Sangharsh Samiti. He said that a family was permanently displaced from his land due to land acquisition and therefore it was must that such families get maximum benefits.
 
 He said that construction of this four lane road would ensure development of the entire area and this issue should be resolved at the earliest with the cooperation of the local people. He also directed the officers to provide compensation to the affected families in time bound manner.
 
 Revenue Minister Kaul Singh Thakur demanded that adequate compensation should be provided to the people concerned as fertile land was being acquired at several places. He assured that all the anomalies regarding the compensation would be removed soon. 
 
 Waging a war against the state government on issue of land acquisition due to four-laning projects in the state, “Fourlane Sayankut Sangharsh Samiti” had held a rally at Dhalpur in Kullu in November last year to raise their voice against continued “injustice” being delivered by the state government and NHAI and blatant violations of new land law “The Right to fair compensation, Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Re-settlement Act 2013” for the last two years.
 
 Brigadier Khushal Thakur (retd), President of Fourlane Sayankut Sangharsh Samiti, said that people were not against the land acquisition for the purpose of growth and development of the country, but it should not have been purely at the cost of less fortunate and helpless farmers who will not only lose their land but also lose their source of livelihood forever.
 
