With the   having imposed restrictions on flow of traffic at the hill station during weekends, tourists are turning their attention towards other destinations around the city for monsoon getaways.

  After the ban on entry of four wheelers on the road leading to popular destinations like   and   through Lonavala, the Pune rural police are expecting a rise in traffic snarls in the neighbouring   and   Ghat areas.
 
  
  
 Though these have been popular destinations on the weekend destinations list, major roadblocks, like those experienced in Lonavala were very rare till date. However, the recent development is bound to change that situation. Though Lonavala is off the list, tourists are already looking for better destinations. “The traffic police should rather manage the traffic than restrict it. However, we are happy to explore more places like Tamhini for mon soon getaways if there is restriction at Lonavala,” says Lala Atole, an advocate and travel enthusiast.
 
  Some travellers also feel that these destinations are safer. Aditi Kashyap, a student, informs, “Places like   or Mulshi are much safer as compared to Lonavala. I feel they are better options and offer much more scenic beauty.”
 
  With the travellers' eyening new options over Lonavala, the Pune rural police have a tough job at hand. “The Mulshi area experienced more traffic than usual this weekend,” informs Inspector Suresh Nimbalkar from the Paud police station. He adds, “The restriction of flow to the Lonavala might be the reason. A lot of travellers take Paud Road to reach the Konkan region through Tamhini Ghat because of the scenic view it offers. Moreover, there is no alternate route here so we have to keep the road trafficfree. The monsoon brings a lot of tourists to the area anyway and that number is expected to go up now. So, we will be extra vigilant.”
 
  
  A major issue with the Lonavala road was haphazard parking. People used to park cars in the middle of the road to click pictures. But, according to Nimbalkar, that won't be an issue here. “Unlike Lonavala, Mulshi is rich in nature and not specific spots. So people prefer reaching the destination directly. Also, if they want to stop midway, there are a lot of small hotels that offer parking space. So managing parking won't be an issue,” he says.
 
  Nevertheless, if you are planning a road trip via Paud road, be prepared for traffic snarls. “But if you want to avoid traffic, I suggest travel a little more. Places like Kaas plateau near Satara also offer equally beautiful views,” suggests Vishal Shinde, another tourist.
 
 
