AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad zonal unit of   (DRI) on Monday seized 115kg of khat, or Catha edulis leaves, valued at Rs 3 crore in the international market, which had been imported from Ethiopia as “Moringa leaves”. Some 96kg of   was seized in Ahmedabad and 19kg in Bharuch.

 Khat is a psychotropic substance prohibited under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985. It is a flowering plant native to the Horn of Africa and Arabian peninsula. It contains a monoamine alkaloid called cathinone or cathine, which is an amphetamine-like stimulant. When consumed, it causes excitement, loss of appetite and euphoria. The fresh leaves and tops are chewed or, less frequently, dried and consumed as tea.
 
 DRI officials said the agency gathered intelligence that two courier companies,   from Bharuch and Fast Track Express from Ahmedabad, were importing and exporting Khat leaves from the foreign post office in Ahmedabad and the courier cell at the air cargo complex in the city.
 
 Searches were conducted at the offices of the foreign post office and the two private courier companies. Some 96kg of khat leaves, imported from Ethiopia in the name of Skyking Express Parcel Service of Bharuch, was found. 
 
 DRI officials later found 19kg of khat leaves concealed in ‘Darjeeling tea’, that was to be exported to the Netherlands.
 
 DRI officials found the owners of the consignment, identified as   and Ravi Bhojani, were in constant touch with the courier companies and had entered a deal to clear the consignments for large sums of money.
 
 It was also found that the duo were exporting khat leaves to the USA, UK and other countries, by declaring it as dried green tea, from the courier cell at the air cargo complex in Ahmedabad. In the last two or three months, they exported approximately 1,500kg of khat leaves.
 
 Chirag and Ravi were arrested under the NDPS Act and produced before a special NDPS court which sent them to judicial custody. Further investigation is on in the case.
 
