Thane: Following massive raids on sand-dredging in   last week, environmental activists and experts have urged the state to set up a robust mechanism, including deputing specially-trained environmental police, to fight the   that is plundering the creek bed.

 The state, in accordance with national guidelines for sustainable sand-mining, has appointed district-level committees to control   sand-mining. The committees, headed by district collectors also have members from the Maharashtra Maritime Board and police in coastal districts. But these officers require support of local police, transport department and others for logistics and security.
 
 Revenue officials claimed lack of cooperation from various departments, including police, who complain of inadequate staff at the last minute when told of a raid. With no equipment to deal with the mafia, the administration often depends on cranes and other machinery from private contractors, who are often in cahoots with the mafia, and alert them, said an official. Officials said fear of an attack often keeps them away from raids, which encourages the mafia. 
 
 Activists pointed out how officers who put their lives at risk trying to safeguard minerals and lessen damage to the environment and infrastructure like bridges, could face retaliation. A revenue team from Satara had been attacked along with some incidents in Raigad, following which activist Sumaira Abdulali had written to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, seeking a review of the system.
 
 Thane   Mahendra Kalyankar and others were stranded midway in the Kalyan creek for over an hour after their boat broke down recently. “We were stranded for almost an hour. There was no back-up or safety measures, and we were surrounded, unprotected, by the sand mafia in hostile territory. What if the mafia, that is reeling under tremendous losses after the major crackdown by the administration, attacked us finding us without security cover? After a long wait, we were rescued and had to scramble through thick bushes and walk along a narrow wooden plank over waist-high mangrove swamps to reach the shore,” she said.
 
 Abdulali requested Fadnavis to depute specially-trained police to patrol these areas and assist raiding teams.
 
 Activist Stalin Dayanand suggested use of technology to track extraction, transport and end-use of sand using CCTV cameras and GPS on dumpers. Having cameras installed at dredging-prone sites will be of great help and will help us prove our point in identifying those involved in the illegal activity.
 
 “The government should make it mandatory for contractors to disclose quantities and sources of raw material, especially sand required for infrastructure and building projects. A mechanism to track raw materials from planning to execution stages of all building projects will also go a long way,” said Abdulali.
 
 
