KOZHIKODE: It seems humans can learn a lesson or two in coexistence from big cats and wild dogs in the Western Ghats.

 In a ground-breaking study conducted by wildlife conservation society ( ) in four protected reserves in Karnataka, which also including parts of   (WWS), researchers have found that three globallythreatened carnivores ­ tigers, leopards and   (dholes) ­ have developed `smart' adaptations to co-exist, despite competing for same prey base.
 
 The adaptive mechanisms include using different habitat types and being active at different times. However, these mechanisms vary , depending on the density of prey resources and possibly other habitat features.
 
 WCS researchers said usually big cats and wild canids live in different parts so as to keep away from one another. Yet in the four relatively small re serves where the study was conducted, the researchers found that the three carnivores, were living side by side with `surprisingly little conflict'.
 
 The study was done using dozens of non-invasive camera traps for sampling the entire animal population. The team recorded around 2,500 images of the predators in action.
 
 It was also observed that, dholes, which are active during the day, did not come in much contact with nocturnal tigers and leopards. But in Bhadra reserve with scarce prey base, the animals' active times overlapped, yet dholes managed to avoid the big cats.
 
 In Nagarahole tiger reserve, a park teeming with all three carnivores and their prey , leopards actively avoided tigers. The area studied as part of Nagarahole park also included the adjoining southern block of Wayanad sanctuary . The area monitored as part of Bandipur reserve too included the southern block of WWS. Biligiri Rangaswamy Temple (BTR) sanctuary was also subjected to study .
 
 “We were surprised to see how each species have remarkably different adaptation methods. Such adaptations are helpful for conservationists who are engaged in saving all three,“ said Ullas Karanth, lead author of the study.
 
 The study titled `Spatiotemporal interactions facilitate large carnivore sympatry across a resource gradient' coauthored by Arjun Srivathsa, Divya Vasudev , Mahi Puri, Ravishankar Parameshwaran and Samba Kumar, was published in the journal Proceedings of the   of London B: Biological Sciences in February.
 
 While both tigers and dholes are classified as `endangered' by IUCN, leopards are considered `vulnerable'.
 
