KOLHAPUR: Even after serving show-cause notices to illegal   across the district on May 5, not a single institute has replied to the notices till Friday (May 19), said officials from the   (ZP) education department.

 The primary education department of the ZP had asked the schools/classes operating illegally to deposit a fine of Rs 1 lakh for operating without formal authority within a week. “Until now no response has been received even after the deadline has passed,” said Kunal Khemnar, Kolhapur ZP chief executive officer.
 
 “We sent a letter on Thursday to the directorate of primary education office to propose action against the errant schools and institutes that are still involved in illegal activities. No illegal activity will be tolerated in the district when it comes to the education,” he added.
 
 The letter, a copy of which is with the TOI, said that under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, section 18 (5), the errant schools have been asked to deposit the fine amount and shut down their operations. However, none of the schools have complied with the order.
 
 Subhash Chougule, education officer (primary), said the department will wait for the instructions from higher authorities, till then he asked parents to ensure they do not admit their wards in any of these schools or classes, the list of which has already been published.
 
 Another official from the education department said that it has come to the fore that two schools have taken the legal route, while one had stopped its operations last year. Hence, the action has been proposed against 24 schools, as against the original list of 27 schools.
 
 The notices have been served to the institute owners/principals to shut down the schools or the classes that are running without formal authority. “Many of the schools are running without any issue from past few years now,” said the official.
 
 Khemnar had earlier said there is a provision of lodging a criminal case against the illegal schools, however there is no clarity who will lodge the case. Hence, they have requested higher authorities from the state government to initiate action against these schools. 
 
