HYDERABAD: The state government has thrown open the   for eco-tourism development by a private resort. Located at   on the city outskirts, this park has about 500 spotted deer and about 30 sambars among other wild animals.

 Reacting to the development, environmentalists expressed concern stating that eco-tourism should not result in eco-destruction. “Actually, eco-tourism projects should be developed only in huge parks and not in places like Mrugavani whose spread is a few square kilometres. If the park is spread over hundreds of kilometres, then a part of it can be given for eco-tourism. Any project sanctioned should not result in disturbing the wild life,” said environmentalist  .
 
 Stating that it’s not just a deer or another wild animal, its about the whole ecosystem, he said the state government should ensure that this ecological system in Mrugavani National Park is not disturbed due to the eco-tourim project.
 
 Another environmentalist Captain   said wildlife in yet another park would be disturbed in the name of eco-tourism project if the state government, particularly officials of the forest department, do not take adequate care. “In the name of eco-tourism, the peaceful environs of the park will get disturbed. Now, more number of trips in the name of safari ride would be allowed creating more noise pollution. Already, there is a restaurant located opposite the park and hundreds of cars come and park there. As if this was not enough, now the government has decided to allow a private party to develop ecotourism in the park,” he lamented.
 
 Forest department officials said there is no foul play as the resort management has been asked to provide two vehicles for safari ride, give face-lift to cafeteria inside the park and construct grand entry plaza. However, resort management can directly bring in guests for safari ride from its resort. 
 
 Telangana principle chief conservator of forests (Wild Life) PK   said the private resort management will only invest money in the eco-tourim project and the entire maintenance and supervision would be taken care of by the forest department in the park.
 
