CHHATBIR ZOO: The gharial may bear the looks of a deadly customer but its long snout and inability to move fast on ground have limited this species to fish-eating and incapable of preying on birds. This critically-endangered species is historically guilty of the least number of attacks on humans and causing deaths.

 This was stated during a day-long reptile husbandry and conservation management training workshop at the   on Saturday, aimed at establishing a sound technical basis for the re-introduction of gharial in Punjab. Gharial expert Dr Shailendra Singh, addressed the anxieties of the forest and wildlife preservation department staff from the Harike Wildlife Sanctuary. The first batch of gharials bred in captivity at the zoo are scheduled for release in the river Beas in end-September or early October.
 
 "The gharial does not attack humans. It is a most timid species. It cannot move more than four metres on ground because of its body structure. The gharial only attacks when someone tries to catch it. The size of the specimens to be released at Harike are small and, therefore, present no danger. The track record of the gharial on an 800-km stretch of the Chambal river shows not a single attack on humans," said Dr Singh, who heads the India programme of the Turtle Survival Alliance (TSA). 
 
 Dr Singh was accompanied by the veterinarian and TSA consultant, Dr Himanshu, and Dr Nariman Vazifdar, who is project coordinator for the TSA’s Chambal project. "I have asked the technical experts from the TSA to put up their recommendations for the gharial release, including possible sites for the soft release of these reptiles. To ensure a sound technical basis for the release programme, we sent the TSA team on Friday to Harike to make an on-the-spot assessment of the Harike-Beas system and realise the potential of the unique river system," PCCF (Wildlife) and Punjab chief wildlife warden Dr   told TOI.
 
 The zoo staff and the Harike personnel were trained on how to handle gharials, assess their health, mark them for individual identification as well as arrangements and suitable timing of transport to Harike. Zoo field director M Sudhagar, who has served earlier at Harike as DFO (wildlife), is coordinating the gharial reintroduction project. "I will recommend to the Punjab government that the 100 gharials that are to be sent to Harike from breeding centres in   (UP) and   ( ) be suitably utilised. Some of the females could be sent to the zoo first, where they could boost the breeding lines. The zoo should emerge as a conservation breeding centre for gharials and directly supply the re-introduction programme," Dr Singh told TOI.
 
 The re-introduction of gharial in Punjab, whose last records are from the 1960s, will lead to tourism inflows and open up new avenues of livelihoods as also turn into a source of pride for the Harike-Beas people. "The gharial evolved over millions of years but humans exterminated it within a few decades. It is the responsibility of the people of Punjab to return the Gharial to its historical range and provide their children with a chance to see this magnificent reptile once again," Dr Singh added.
 
