By Archana Dahiwal
 
 
 Here's one enterprise that is taking its corporate social responsibility (CSR) to greener heights, one pedal push at a time. A   industrial unit,  , has launched a slew of incentives to promote the cycling culture among its 300-strong workforce -even doling out free meal passes and loans at zero per cent interest for  . Now, Enpro employees collectively cover a distance of over 10,000 km in a month, saving over 275 litres of petrol.
 
 The company was founded by IIT couple Shrikrishna and Alka Karkare in 1988 at A-17 H Block, Pimpri MIDC. It is a global leader in design and manufacture of mechanical fluid systems. The Karkare family is fond of cycling and mountaineering. Their younger son, 25-year-old Anuj, shared how they were inspired into starting the cycling initiative in mid-December last year, saying, “My father and I had taken part in the Indo Cyclist Club's 100-km cycle rally from Nigdi to Lonavala.
 
 Soon after, we decided to inculcate the habit among our employees, shared the idea with them and even organised a workshop by a reputable bicycle brand to address their queries. The brand's advanced bicycles were put on display during the workshop.“
 
 Anuj, a 2014 alumnus from IIT Bombay, had been to France for an internship where he realised that in foreign countries, people preferred the bicycle to commute to their workplace as well as for travelling short distances. After the internship, he joined his family business. But, once the cycling idea was mooted, the first stumbling block for the employees was the high-priced bicycles.
 
 “So we launched the first incentive scheme, which was that the employees would have to pay only 25 per cent of the price of their cycles; the rest would be cut from their salaries without interest.Surprisingly, we got a positive response from them. They surveyed various bicycle shops in the city and purchased vehicles of their choice.“
 
 Later, the company started distributing Sodexo meal coupons to employees who switched to bicycles.Every day, the security guard distributes the coupons to those who ride to work at the entrance gate itself. In order to make cycles a viable alternative for employee commute, the company even began constructing changing rooms, shower facilities, a dedicated parking lot for cycles in campus, air pumps and so on.
 
 There are almost 27 regular employees who have started using their bicycles to commute to and from work, while the rest of the employees are using it once or twice a week or according to their convenience. Even Anuj and his father use the bicycle to travel to work daily. “The main reason for promoting cycling is that it not only reduces fuel consumption but also simultaneously increases the physical fitness of a person. In our hectic schedules, it is very difficult for us to make time for exercise. Riding a cycle compensates for that,“ shared Anuj.
 
 The employees have more than welcomed the move, with Saurabh Jain, a senior official at Enpro, saying, “It keeps the staff fit for business.“ Sachin Gurav, another employee, even devised a phrase that turned the word cycle into an acronym.“Changed Your wheels, Changed Lifestyle of Enpro (CYCLE),“ said he. Devendra Deshpande, another corporate at Enpro, added, “The main intention is to motivate employees for exercise as they are very much indifferent towards their fitness.“
 
 A few employees travel 20 km daily, from Pune to Pimpri, on bicycle. “Many people take more time to reach somewhere riding a bicycle. But, I had experienced that it takes 13 minutes to reach Pimpri from Nigdi on bicycle and it takes almost the same time in a car,“ he added.
 
 As for security concerns, Anuj insisted, “The fear is more exaggerated as far as cycling is concerned. Earlier, my mother used to have the same anxieties at first whenever I went out for cycling, especially on long tours. Later, as she bagan cycling herself, her fear reduced. If you look at the statistics, cycling accidents are far fewer as compared to other vehicles.“
 
