LUDHIANA: With his in-laws refusing to send his wife back home, a 25-year-old   after he set himself ablaze outside the in-laws’ residence at   at Basti Jodhewal on Thursday night.

 The deceased has been identified as Tarun Kumar of Grewal Colony of Basti Jodhewal who worked with an outsourcing agency.
 
 Tarun’s in-laws had taken his wife to their home on Wednesday following a verbal feud between the couple.
 
 On late Thursday night, Tarun had gone to the residence of his in-laws to bring back his wife, but when they refused to send her, he sets himself on fire by sprinkling kerosene on him.
 
 Locality residents saw Tarun on fire and informed the police. Later the youth was taken to the  . Considering his critical condition as he suffered 85% burns, he was referred to PGI, Chandigarh. But, his family took him to a   in civil lines where he succumbed to injuries by midnight.
 
 SHO at Jodhewal police station   said after his death, police registered a case under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of IPC against his father-in-law Amar Sharma, brother-in-law Sheebu and wife Tanya.
 
 He said Tarun married Tanya five months ago. It was a love marriage against the will of their families, police said.
 
 According to police, the couple had an argument on Wednesday over some family issue, after which Tanya called her parents, who took her along with them.
 
 The SHO said on Thursday too, he went to his in-law’s home to resolve the matter. He had told girl’s parents that if they do not send Tanya with him, he would commit suicide. He said when Tarun set himself on fire, the onlookers did not try to save him. Later, cops doused the flames and called an ambulance.
 
 Tarun’s father Surinder Kumar said the family members got worried when Tarun did not return. They called his in-laws but did not get any information. After reacing at the in-laws’ place, they got to know that a youth had set himself ablaze and was taken to civil hospital.
 
 Police said they were yet to question the in laws who have gone away after locking their house.
 
