Nagpur: The Maharashtra Animal and Fishery Sciences University (MAFSU) on Thursday conferred its first-ever honourary doctorate of science (DSc) degreee upon   chief   for his ‘outstanding’ contribution towards gau shalas, conservation of indigenious cow breeds and organic farming. The   move to honour Bhagwat had come in for close scrutiny. However, the university had defended its decison saying set procedure was followed before finalizing Bhagwat’s name.

 The alumni association had recommeded that Bhagwat being an alumus of Nagpur Veterinary College (NVC) be hounoured with the DSc. The proposal had also received unanimous and overwhelming support in the academic council and execeutive council of MAFSU. 
 
 In his speech at the Vasantrao Deshpande Hall, Bhagwat said the degree wasn’t conferred upon him for any glorious work in the field. 
 
 “I got a lot from this college. I had stopped working for personal gains long back. All my efforts are aimed for the welfare of others and society,” he said.
 
 The RSS chief added that the profession of animal husbandry and fishery sciences has done a lot for the country. “Our country has always been dependent on agriculture and industry. Gradually, the importance of animal husbandry and livestock is being realized in these two sectors. Going forward, new reserach and innovation would be carried out. Thus, the government must ensure all facilities are available for the institutions,” he said.
 
 He also said that after completing his degree, he found that it was praiseworthy to treat those who can’t speak but bite and bark. 
 
 Governor and chancellor Ch Vidyasagar Rao, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, minister of animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries and pro-chancellor of MAFSU Mahadeoraoji Jankar, district guardrian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, and secretary of department of Agriculture Research and Education Trilochan Mohapatra were present.
 
 In his   address, Mohapatra said the biggest constraint in utilizing the potentials of our voluminous livestock is non-availablity of feed and fodder. “It is ironical that out of the cultivable land only 4.6% is being used for fodder crops. In 2020, we would deficit by 64% green fodder and 25% of dry fodder,”
 
 He lamented that despite being highest milk producer, India is unable to fulfil the need of consumers.
 
 Fadnavis said with depleting livestock farmers are forced to commit suicide. “Thus, after getting degress you must work for the animal welfare. Bringing smile on someone’s face would be the real degree,” he said.
 
 
