LUCKNOW: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) which gave UP its first dalit woman chief minister Mayawati could win only two reserved seats out of total 86-84 for scheduled castes and two for scheduled tribes in the assembly elections, results of which were declared on Saturday.

 In fact, BSP's score was less that of its splinter groups Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and Apna Dal (Sonelal) (AD) which won three and two seats respectively in alliance with the   (BJP) which swept by winning 70 reserved seats.
 
 Of 84 SC seats, BJP and its allies won 74 BJP 70, SBSP 3 and AD1and   won seven. The two SC seats BSP won are Sidhauli and Lalganj. One Babaganj was won by an independent. In 2012, BJP had won only three reserved seats. This time, it is saffron parties best performance ever on reserved seats.
 
 Two seats were reserved for STs for the first time. One each were won by the BJP and its ally. In Dudhi (ST), seventime MLA and BSP candidate   Gond lost to AD's Hari Ram and in Obra (ST) BSP candidate Virendra Pratap Singh came third losing to BJP's Sanjiv Kumar.
 
 SBSP and Apna Dal have been found by leaders who had founded BSP along with   but quit later due to differences with Mayawati.
 
 The shocking part was that in 50% of the reserved seats, BSP could not even secure second place. BSP's performance on SC seats was poor than the first election it contested in 1989, when it won five seats. Although BSP's worst performance in SC seats was in 1991when it drew blank, but in subsequent elections, it won more than 15 seats. BSP best performance in SC seats was in 2007 when it swept 62 seats. Analysts, however, said that defeat in reserved seats does not mean that BSP which got around 22% overall votes in the state, has lost grip over Dalits. In reserved constituencies, all parties have to field Dalittribal candidates, leading to the split of Dalittribal votes, hence, those who were able to attract votes from other castes and communities win.
 
 “Mayawati had tried political engineering by forging an alliance of dalit and Muslims.However, Muslims did not vote for her as she had expected. Similarly, upper castes and non-Yadav backward classes have voted for the BJP. Yadavs stood behind the SP .Even among Dalits, it seems only Jatavs, the caste to which Mayawati belongs, have voted for the BSP“ said an analyst.
 
