BENGALURU: Attempting to shore up its popularity ahead of the assembly polls, the   government on Friday announced its intention to grant ownership of houses to agricultural labourers staying in unrecorded habitations on government and private land.

 With this, an agricultural labourer will not only become the owner of the house he has been living in but will also get to own the land around it. The move will benefit around two lakh people (a majority of them from backward castes) who have been staying in habitations that don’t come under the purview of the revenue department. These unrecorded hamlets include Lambani Thanda, Gollarahatti, Vaddarahatti, Kurubarahatti, Nayakarahatti, Majare Grama, Haadi, Doddi, Camp,   and Colony.
 
 The government tabled the Karnataka Land Reforms (amendment) Bill, 2016 to this effect in the assembly on Friday; the legislation was passed without any opposition. 
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah said: “This is a revolutionary decision after the famous ‘land to the tiller’ legislation was passed four decades ago. Inhabitants of these hamlets will henceforth become the owners of the houses they stay in. These are people who have been oppressed for years, and today they stand liberated.” According to official sources, there are about 750-1,000 hamlets across the state.
 
 Bringing these hamlets into the revenue department’s fold will not only help these marginalized communities establish their identity and assert their rights but will also be a political game-changer for the Siddaramaiah government in the run-up to the 2018 assembly polls. 
 
 Congressman and  , who had been pushing for the legislation, said: “By making the occupants the owners, the government has given recognition to the people staying in hamlets. Till now, they had not been documented. But now they will be given title deeds. The next step is to convert these hamlets into revenue villages. By becoming owners of the houses and land, they will be eligible for bank loans and can access different government schemes as well.” 
 
 
 
 On the ownership process, revenue minister   said agricultural labourers from these hamlets can submit an application to the deputy commissioner or any other officer authorized to determine the person entitled to be registered as the owner of the house. The application will be forwarded to the tahsildar, who after ascertaining the credentials of the applicant, will send it to the sub-registrar for registration of the house. “We will make it a hassle-free process for the beneficiaries,” Thimmappa said.
 
 
