It was life as usual for   until the morning of May 25. The 29-year-old   was just another face in the crowd till that day, but at 7.30 am, Sunil got the first sign that something big was coming his way. “You might find this funny, but I wound up brushing my teeth only at 1 pm; I was inundated with calls until then,” he laughs, adding that in his wildest dreams he hadn’t thought that his simple act of foregoing a fare of Rs 140 on the afternoon of May 23, would put him in the spotlight.

  It all started with   Rao, a resident of the city, putting up a post on her social networking page about Sunil’s thoughtful gesture. It read thus: “I booked a cab for my parents as my dad had to go to the hospital for a check-up. As micro and mini weren’t available I booked a prime sedan. The driver arrived promptly, and dropped my parents at the hospital. It was a cash trip and the bill was `140. The driver (Sunil) absolutely refused to take money from my mom saying he doesn’t take payment for hospital trips. Both my parents tried a lot to make him accept payment, but he was very adamant. He insisted that dropping people to hospitals was his way of helping the society. Mom asked him to at least take a part of the bill (petrol expenses), but he just refused and left.
 
  My parents were stunned and when mom told me this, I was in a state of shock. In today’s age, when auto drivers start a conversation with “`200” or “metre double” and cab drivers cancel bookings just because they don’t like the destination, Sunil is a gem.” Kavya’s post went viral, and has until now notched 69 thousand likes, 3,500 thousand comments and 5,300 shares. 
 
  And while netizens all over the country were praising his act, Sunil remained ignorant of it all. “At some point, I think somebody tagged my brother and he called me on the 24th saying there’s some post that has gone viral with my name. Even then, I didn't give it much thought. It was only once the media started calling that I realized the full extent to which the post had gone,” concedes Sunil. “In fact, I find it strange that such a small act is being made such a big deal of. I have been doing this for a while now,” he remarks shyly.
 
  So what led him to extend this gesture? “My mother ailed from kidney problems, and had to undergo dialysis on a daily basis. We’d spend `500 only on her hospital rides. Money was tight, so the family went through some testing times then. Unfortunately, we lost her last year, but I resolved to myself that day that I'd extend all my help to anyone who is ailing. Letting go of a taxi fare might at least help them buy medicines or buy them an extra ride home. Nobody should suffer like I did to save the life of a loved one,” he says. 
 
  Prod him further on how often he does it and Sunil reluctantly reveals that sometimes it’s every day. “I’ve foregone fares up to `400. But it doesn’t pinch me. When I tell such passengers that the ride is on me, their faces light up. Some even say that I remind them of their son. These things mean fare more to me than filling my pockets,” he states. As a parting shot, Sunil wishes to share his dream. “I’m not keen on the publicity. But I hope something good comes out of all this. If we all pay forward and commit to a single good deed every day, we’d be a much happier society. As for me, I will continue doing this service besides ensuring that women and the aged enjoy a safe ride with me,” he wraps up.
 
  The newly-married Sunil is off social networking and when not driving his cab, likes to spend time with his wife. “She even sent a thank you note to the girl who put up the post,” he says. His cab company also felicitated him for his noble act.
 
 
