PATNA: Vehicular movement between north and south Bihar across Ganga is set to get smoother with the completion of works on development of a pontoon bridge parallel to the  . Senior officials in the   (BRPNNL) on Monday claimed that vehicular movement would commence on the new bridge by the end of this week.

 The 1.5km-long pontoon bridge has been developed by Shristi Developers. Its approach road starts from Alamganj police station on Patna side and Gandhi Setu police station in Hajipur.
 
 Two pontoon bridges were initially proposed to be constructed by the state government parallel to the Gandhi setu to allow alternative traffic movement when the bridge underwent rehabilitation. The existing superstructure of the setu will completely be demolished and triangular steel girders erected under the rehabilitation process.
 
 “Initially two pontoon bridges were supposed to be constructed on the upstream (western) and downstream (eastern) sides of the river and we have completed the works on the later. As all 160 pontoons have been joined and the work is almost in the final stage, we expect that vehicular movement will commence by the end of this month,” said a senior BRPNN official.
 
 He added the second pontoon bridge would also be erected on the downstream of the river and work on it would commence by the end of this month. As only one pontoon bridge would be opened first, one-way movement is proposed to be allowed on it. Light vehicles are proposed to move on the pontoon bridge from either side — Patna as well as Hajipur — alternately. However, during monsoon, the pontoon bridge would be removed when water level increases.
 
 Arrangement of alternative traffic for Gandhi setu was a matter of concern for the state authorities as the much-awaited rehabilitation on the bridge will start any time now. In fact, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was slated to commission the setu rehabilitation works on January 15, but it was later postponed due to the Sabbalpur diara boat tragedy which claimed 24 lives.
 
 The Union ministry of road, transport and highways had in November last year awarded the contract for rehabilitation of the setu to  . The firm has already mobilized its resources, including manpower and equipment.
 
 A meeting will be held on February 16 to finalize the nitty-gritty of the setu rehabilitation project which will be attended by state chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh, DGP P K Thakur and senior officials from the ministry of road transport and highways and the state road construction department.
 
 
