BHOPAL: Gwalior police that busted the child trafficking racket last week is likely to have sold 25 young girls in the last two years. Cops were able to rescue eight girls on the basis information provided by the gang.

 Each girl rescued, was stolen from her parents and was sold for Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000 to a brothel in the state or neighbouring states.
 
 “Our investigations are underway. Teams are being dispatched to different places,”   told TOI.
 
 “There were missing persons complaint registered in Gwalior and Jhansi for four girls that we have rescued,” said Kaushal.
 
 Investigations revealed this gang developed contacts in red light areas across the country and were picking up young girls. They used to take money in advance and then start hunting for innocent young girls at railway stations and bus stands.
 
 Most of the girls were trafficked to Badnapur and Reshampura area. Kinging of the gang – Laxmi and Rammilan Kanjar has been arrested along with six others. Rammilan told police that gang use to abduct girls only after getting an order and some advance. He revealed that lifting newborns and girls as young as 2 to 3 years from deprived parents was easy as the matter mostly goes unreported. Police said their network was spread across Gwalior, Shivpuri, Datia, Dholpur (Rajasthan), Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, Allahabad and Kolkatta.
 
 “Their call details are being scrutinized. It is clear that they had a well knitted network in UP, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and West Bengal,” said a police officer. The gang busted with the arrest of Laxmi, 49, who was arrested on October 30.
 
 She was caught red-handed while abducting a girl from neat Saibaba temple in Gwalior by a constable with the help of a rickshaw driver. Later, on January 2, three middlemen and Laxmi’s son – Raju and Rajesh were arrested. Three girls were rescued from them. Three girls were rescued on their information. Two more girls were rescued on January 3.
 
 A key accused Rambali managed to escape with more of abducted girls before police raided his den in Badnapur area. Several teams have been dispatched to different parts of the state.
 
