WASHINGTON: A day after an Indian IT professional was shot and killed in Kansas by a   in a purported hate crime, US President Donald Trump pledged to protect American workers, bring back jobs to the US., and support gun ownership rights in a strongly nationalist speech to the conservative flock.

 "I am not representing the globe, I am representing your country," Trump told the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC), the annual gather of right-leaning Republicans in a rousing speech on Friday, asserting, the "GOP will be the party of the American worker."
 
 Neither the President -- nor the White House – had made any mention of   at the time of writing this report, even though Trump expressed anguish on social media at the death of seven people in random gun violence in Chicago. 
 
 "Seven people shot and killed yesterday in Chicago. What is going on there - totally out of control. Chicago needs help!" he tweeted.
 
 However, expression of grief and support came from the US Embassy in New Delhi where the acting ambassador MaryKay Carlson spoke of sadness at the "tragic and senseless act," and asserted that the United States "is a nation of immigrants and welcomes people from across the world to visit, work, study and live here."
 
 "US. authorities will investigate the case thoroughly even though we recognise that justice is a small consolation to the families in grief," she added.
 
 But at the CPAC, a gathering he skipped last year as 16 Republicans fought for the Presidential nomination, Trump hit all the conservative, nativist buttons in a  , including pledging to "protect our Second Amendment" relating to gun rights, saying the folks at National Rifle Association "love our country."
 
 The US President also mocked the European striving for a union and its stand on immigrants, harking back to his warning on the havoc Muslim immigrants were causing in Sweden, and gleefully pointing out that a day after his warning, there were riots in the country which the media did not report substantially. He repeated his familiar trope about the media being the enemy of the people although he qualified it to mean sections of the media.
 
 The US President’s address repeatedly touched on protectionist, nativist themes. "There is no such thing as a global anthem, a global currency, or a global flag," Trump told the conference as asserted his and the conservative flock’s loyalty to the American flag and the constitution.
 
 The address, which did little to reassure minorities and immigrants amid reports of growing intolerance in the conservative heartland, was received enthusiastically by the alt-right faithfuls, including chants of "Lock her up! Lock her up!" resurfacing when Trump referred to Hillary Clinton.
 
 
