NEW DELHI: After claiming that there was no   called   in their records, Haryana government on Friday told   that it will be included and identified as a wetland in a survey by the government. 

 Haryana had earlier claimed that there was no lake there, just a “low-lying area.” The bench headed by NGT chairman, Justice Swatanter Kumar, said “After one year, you managed to find the jheel now.” 
 
 “Haryana government had first claimed there is no jheel, then they said the lake was not demarcated in their revenue records and it was just a natural depression. Today, they said   Jheel will be identified after a survey and notified,” said  , lawyer representing Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach).
 
 The heritage body had filed an application asking the Haryana government to revive and protect the jheel, which is affected by encroachments, and there is hardly any water left in it. Almost equal portions of Najafgarh Jheel fall in Delhi and Haryana. 
 
 The Delhi government has also been dragging its feet on the matter. It has filed only one reply in the entire year which said that a bund was built in 1976 which may have affected water flow to the Delhi side of the jheel. 
 
 Intach had proposed a plan to revive the lake to   (DDA) and Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) but none acted. In its application, Intach says “the jheel, if revived, would not only be a huge reservoir catering to the needs of the residents of Delhi and Gurgaon, it would also be a very important source for recharge of the groundwater aquifers. It is submitted that by the acts of omission and commission on part of the various respondents (Delhi, Haryana governments and Centre) the jheel is nearly extinct.”
 
 Najafgarh Jheel is marked in Delhi government’s master plan 2021 but the government has not taken any steps to either revive it or prevent encroachments. The water body is also significant for its aquatic biodiversity as it was once home to Siberian cranes, says the application.
 
 
