Two decades after a road connecting   to Paud Road was proposed, the much debated project stands to take off soon. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is set to begin land acquisition for the road that will pass through   and the neighbouring Vetal Tekdi. Now here’s the catch: The road is aimed at reducing peak hour traffic congestion on Law College Road which is a daily commuting route for IT sector employees who reside in Kothrud and its neighbouring areas, but there’s a flipside. If the road is made, it would divide the ILS Law College into two parts, one on either side of the road, and environmentalists say that it poses a threat to the ecology on the Vetal Tekdi.

 Bhushan Raut, a student of ILS, feels it would be heart-breaking to see a part of the campus being lost to this road. “This will also affect the study environment apart from polluting the campus. The college building is a part of history and this road passes exactly near it. We are not against infrastructure but a road through an academic institution is uncalled for and we are completely against it,” he said.
 
 Vaijayanti Joshi, principal of the college, also echoed the same sentiment and hinted towards opposition from the college, she said, “The road will not only hamper the sanctity of the educational environment but will also put the health of students/ faculty at risk. 
 
 Trespassing will be another major issue and looking at the current scenario, I don’t think the PMC will prevent illegal encroachment either.”However, the civic body has no plans to stall the process as of now. Prashant Waghmare, city engineer, informed, “As per the court’s order, we have included the road in the Development Plan (DP) of the city and will go ahead with it.” Daily commuters too are looking forward to the road with the hope that it will reduce their travel time and health issues as well. Some feel that the Law College road is narrow, which is why there is traffic congestion there. Pointing towards the exhaustion due to heavy traffic, Shirish Kulkarni, a Kothrud resident who travels to Shivajinagar daily, said, “The Law College road is very narrow and we have to spend a lot of time stuck in traffic. This results in exhaustion and health woes due to pollution. The new road can solve these issues.”
 
 
  
 
 Pooja Lokhande, a BPO employee, added, “We face heavy traffic at the Paud road junction where vehicle flow from Kothrud and Karvenagar areas merges. And everyone travelling towards or from SB Road, Aundh, Baner or Shivajinagar has to take this route. The new road can bifurcate traffic and reduce commuting time too.”
 
 A prime concern for the students is that the road will create safety issues. Prachi Patil, a second year LLB student, said, “Trespassing is inevitable after this road is constructed and that will be a cause of security concern for us students, especially those residing in the hostels on campus.”From the environmental point of view, the Vetal Tekdi is rich in flora and fauna. It has also seen a good rise in the number of peacocks through the efforts of the Forest Department. According to people connected with the development, the PMC may need to cut over 1000 trees for the road to come through. These are certain reasons that have invited opposition from local citizen groups as well as environment experts.
 
 
  
 
 Environmentalist  , informed, “During 1950, G R Gharpure, the then principal of ILS Law College, took various steps towards afforestation on the Vetal Tekdi. The area houses rare animals and the road will hamper the ecology of the place. The development of the city should be done in a systematic manner. What if this road also is unable to handle the heavy traffic flow in the future?” Sumita Kale, a member of the Deccan Gymkhana Parisar Samiti ( ), a resident body working towards the betterment of the area, added, “Various stakeholders have taken an interest in conserving the natural beauty of the tekdi. This road will create a threat to the wildlife and increase trespassing in the forest area, worsening the situation further.”
 
