Bollywood is not immune from the   virus. ‘Sultan’, for example, is as much about wrestling as it is about mixed martial arts.

 A mixed martial arts (MMA) fighter is like a celebrity. “For me they’re heroes, because going inside a cage needs guts,” says Yashpal Singh Kalsi, a MMA judge and senior referee in the ongoing Super Fight League (SFL).
 
 Kalsi is also chief trainer with Sanshinkan, a Swedish martial arts school which has its base in Gurgaon (besides six other branches in the NCR). So, he’s very close to the action. “I know what kind of risks the fighters are taking when they get into the cage.”
 
 Gurgaon-based   and   from Delhi are among the 96 fighters who are taking part in the  . Rosario, 29, trains at Sanshinkan, and is turning out for Sher-e-Punjab, while Solomon, 33, is fighting for the Delhi Heroes. The SFL, dubbed the world’s first mixed martial arts league, got under way on Friday.
 
 Solomon has been fighting professionally since the start of the Super Fight League, around four years back. He has been an “avid practitioner” of the martial arts since he was 14. “My parents took me to taekwondo classes, and then I progressed from taekwondo to boxing, boxing to kick-boxing, then eventually to jujitsu, then to mixed martial arts,” he told TOI.
 
 “So, I’ve got a pretty good base in every form of martial arts out there.” It isn’t surprising, says Solomon, to see youthful interest in any type of martial art. For kids, he points out, are exposed to action flicks, and Bruce Lee and Kung Fu movies, from a young age. 
 
 “They see these fight shows and they go out and try the moves.” They would, however, be best advised not to try these “moves” until suitably schooled.
 
 “If you don’t get proper training, you can hurt yourself, and you can hurt your opponent,” maintains Kalsi. “In training, we tell them, ‘Don’t be violent, be calm’. And we give them a meditation session after the class.”
 
 Still, anybody, Kalsi adds, can learn mixed martial arts. And if you know your karate, taekwondo, boxing and judo, you have a jumpstart. “Children can learn these sports, and develop their skills. But it’s only until they turn 18 can they take part in a pro fight.”
 
 The trick to success in mixed martial arts lies in preserving energy. Also, a fighter needs to be experienced enough to look after his or her safety. “You don’t just jump in and hit someone. That’s why we can’t put an amateur fighter inside the cage.” Experience, then, counts for a lot here.
 
 But this is the real deal, not the choreographed drama that is the WWE. And you have to learn the ethics of mixed martial arts, like showing respect to your opponent by checking to see if they are okay. Something, perhaps, for the kids to chew on next time they turn on the TV. 
 
 
