Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh government is sitting on the probe reports into the Petlawad blasts case of 2015 in which 78 people were killed.

 State’s one-man probe commission had submitted its report in three months after the blasts on September 12, 2015, while a report on a probe by the Controller of Explosives (PESO) too has been submitted recently.
 
 The PESO report has nailed local authorities and the explosive seller for gross violations and negligence.
 
 On September 12, 2015, a massive blast in the main market of Petlawad town, in Jhabua district, killed 78 people and injured 74 others. The cause of the explosion was attributed to illegally stored explosives, chemicals and LPG cylinders that detonated due to short circuit.
 
 Police report confirmed two explosions at the site, one at a warehouse where gelignite sticks were stored, followed by a second blast in a crowded restaurant. Investigations revealed that the warehouse was rented by one Rajendra Kasawa and as per rules it is illegal to store those explosives in a residential area.
 
 After the incident, the state government constituted a one-man commission headed by retired HC judge Justice Aryendra Kumar Saxena in September 2015 to probe the case. The commission submitted its report in three months to the state but, it was not tabled in the assembly.
 
 Another inquiry was constituted by the Nagpur-based chief controller of explosives of Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO).
 
 The report which is in possession of TOI, categorically revealed gross violation and illegality by Kaswa, who was holding a shot firer certificate and misusing explosive bearing license of one Dharmendra Rathore.
 
 Kaswa had hired a shop in the market for selling chemical fertilizers, seeds and contract work of drilling and blasting, the report states.
 
 “In the cover of contract work Kaswa had been storing and selling explosives which included detonators, detonating fuse, cartridges, self-made mixtures and formulations of fertilizers with kerosene-diesel duly filled in plastic tubes, inside the shop. These mixtures act as high explosive of Ammonium nitrate-fuel oil (ANFO) type covered under license and had sufficient strength to cause serious damage. The storage of such explosives inside a confined shop was endangering public safety thus, violating the provisions of Explosive Rules 2008", read the report.
 
 Investigations by the controller also cited gross violations on the part of the local authorities. It stated that not only the illegitimate manufacturing and possession of explosive sale and use was traced out by the local authorities, there was no daily record maintained at all regarding explosive material received and fired or otherwise disposed of.
 
  “Violations were also found in storing inflammable material as the place chosen, exposed the explosives to flame, excessive heat, spark or impact. These amounts to the violation of Rule 7, 10 (1), (4), Rule 90 (4) and Rule 120 (1) (b) of the Explosives Rules 2008", it said.
 
 The investigation report was submitted to the Centre and the state government in December 2016, however, the government did not take any action.
 
 The one-man probe commission chairman A K Saxena said, "I was given the task to probe Petlawad blast in September 2015, and I had submitted the report within three months. I am not aware whether the state government has tabled it in the assembly or released it to the public. After submitting the report the enquiry commission was officially wound up", Justice Saxena told TOI.
 
 States GAD ministers Lal Singh Arya told TOI the he was not aware about the Petlawad blasts reports.
 
 
