MUMBAI: A special court framed charges against  , her estranged husband   and ex-husband   on Tuesday on charges of murdering   in 2012. Additionally, the trio has been charged with destruction of evidence, criminal conspiracy, kidnapping and giving false information about an offence. 

  After reading out and explaining the charges to the three who stood in the witness box, special judge Hemant S Mahajan directed them to consult with their lawyers and tell the court if they pleaded guilty or not. Moments later, the accused signed documents in which they pleaded "not guilty" to all charges. Indrani and Sanjeev were also charged for attempting to murder her son, Mikhail Bora. The charge was not framed against Peter. 
 
  After the hearing on framing of charges, Peter addressed the court and said he would want to speak up during the next hearing. The court said he would have his turn after evidence is examined. The court also assured Peter that the trial would be fair and at any point, if he had doubts, the court would clarify them. "You can also cross-examine witnesses. Whatever rights you have, will be protected," the judge said. 
 
  In a six-page order reasoning the ground on which it framed charges, the court said it had carefully gone through statements of all the witnesses recorded, emails, SMSes and call details. "I have also gone through statements of witnesses, particularly the security person who was on duty during the relevant period at Marlow bungalow and that of Rahul Mukerjea (Peter's son and Sheena's fiance), Kajal Sharma (Indrani's assistant) and approver (driver) Shyamvar Rai. If the statements of above-named witnesses read with that of statements of other witnesses available on record, there remains no doubt the material is available showing that there are sufficient grounds for proceeding against all the accused for offences punishable under section 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 364 (kidnapping), 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), and 203 (giving false information in respect of an offence) of the IPC." 
 
 The court further stated there were sufficient grounds for proceeding against Indrani and Sanjeev for offences punishable under section 307 (attempt to murder) read with 34 (common intention) or 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. 
 
 Referring to the remaining charges, the court said the material on record did not constitute sufficient grounds for framing them. The next hearing is on February 1. The prosecution will file a list of witnesses to be examined in the case. After the first witness is summoned, the trial will commence. Primary among the witnesses will be accused-turned approver, driver Shyamvar Rai. His statement, given in Hindi, detailed the roles of all the accused. 
 
 
