LUCKNOW: The high court has set aside the conviction and   awarded to two   accused by a Faizabad court in 2008 for conspiring to wage war against the country. The court, however, did not intervene in the conviction and sentence awarded to the duo under the Explosive Substances Act and Gangster Act.

 The trial court had awarded life imprisonment to both for conspiring to wage war against the country and a maximum of ten years’ imprisonment under other offences besides a hefty fine. Since both the accused had already served out the offences awarded under ES Act and G Act, a bench of Justice SS Chauhan and Justice Anant Kumar directed that the two terrorists be released immediately if they are not wanted in any other case.
 
 “It is made clear that this court has not interfered in respect of other offences and has not expressed any opinion on the merit of the matter specially so far as the matter under Section 121-A IPC (conspiring to wage war against the country) is concerned and the matter is decided only on the limited legal issue in absence of sanction under Section 196 (1) CrPC,” said the bench in its order.
 
 According to the prosecution, the special Judge of Gangster Act, Faizabad, had on July 17, 2008, convicted Altaf Hussain alias Mohd Altaf alias Rohit alias Abdul Rahman and Saleem Qamar alias Neeraj Kumar Singh alias Babu alias Munna under Section 121-A IPC, under Section 4 of the ES Act and under Section 3 (1) of the UP Gangster and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act. The trial court had sentenced them to life imprisonment and also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 each for the offence under Section 121-A IPC, 10 years rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs 25,000 each for the offence under Section 4 ES Act, and five years’ rigorous imprisonment with a fine of Rs 25,000 each for the offence under Section 3 (1) UP Gangster Act . The FIR had been registered against the duo with Ramjanmabhoomi police station.
 
 The two convicts had challenged the special court’s judgment before the   in 2008. Their counsel argued that they had served the sentences awarded under the ES Act and Gangster Act and that the conviction under Section 121-A IPC was sustainable because the investigating agency had not obtained prosecution sanction from the appropriate government to initiate trial against them.
 
 
