SHIMLA: Chadwick falls in Sangti may attract a number of tourists across the world, but its water might be the cause of them falling seriously ill. Thousands of residents of the village, mere 500 metres from   and around 5km from Shimla town, still live without   and even door to door garbage collection facility. Hence the garbage are dumped on its roadsides.

 “We don’t have proper sewerage disposal system here and most of our sewerage is flowing directly to the Chadwick falls for which even tourists can fall ill,” Sangti resident Manoj Thakur said. 
 
 Despite forming a part of chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s constituency Shimla(rural), the state government and the local bodies have failed keep it clean, allege the residents.
 
 “As nobody come to pick our trash, we are forced to throw it on the roadsides which makes our life miserable. To avoid diseases, we often burn it which helps for a day only. We do not feel like we are living in Shimla which is known as international tourist destination,” said Rupali Guleria, also a Sangti resident.
 
 “Filth in Sangti attracts numerous monkeys who attack people,” added another resident Subham, .
 
 Sangti pradhan Devender Thakur said detailed project report has already been made on sewerage connectivity and the work will be done son. “Few years back when we started door to door garbage collection facility with Rs 40 per month, some people raised objections in paying that little amount which lead to closure of the facility. But we will start it again soon with the help of SMC. We are definitely thinking of a long term solution,” he added.
 
 In 2016, Shimla deputy mayor Tikender Singh Panwar visited Sangti with an offer that if the   collects the garbage,   (SMC) can help in disposing them in its plant. But no development has been noticed in past one year.
 
 Shimla Deputy Commissioner Rohan Chand Thakur said that he is not aware of any such situation in Sangti, but he would ask the Block division officer to inspect the place. He can take any decision only after that.
 
