

 My unusual and extraordinary childhood involved seeing my first tiger and first leopard by age two, radio-tracking tigers and leopards by age eight, investigating animal scats and learning to set up camera traps by age fifteen. My favourite activity was the hours and hours spent in watch towers trying to spot animals before my father did! These wild adventures were thanks to my f ather Dr K Ullas Karanth. We have shared many magical moments, and he gave me many opportunities to fall in love with wild India.
 
 Known to the world as the “Tiger Man“, my father had an unusual childhood provided by his parents Leela and  . Home-schooled until sixth grade, he spent much of his time running around Puttur, watching animals in the zoo his father had set up, and exploring nature with his sister. He learnt birdwatching by age seven from Salim Ali's books on Indian Birds.
 
 EARNING HIS STRIPES
 
 Dr  's work on tigers and his writings on them in 1965 Life magazine sparked my father's interest in wild tigers. After spending his 20s training to be a mechanical engineer and followed by a stint as a tobacco farmer, he finally got the opportunity to become a wildlife scientist and conservationist in the 1980s.
 
 Although he spent a lot of time visiting many wildlife reserves, he waited a long time to see his first wild tiger. So when people lament that they haven't seen a tigerhe is quick to share that it took him 13 years of visiting many parks before he saw his first wild tiger! As a conservationist he has perhaps faced the hardest challenges.His work on lion-tailed macaques helped pave the way for the establishment of Kudremukha National Park. Along with several colleagues, they succeeded in shutting down an iron-ore poor but extremely destructive mine in   after a long court battle. A strong proponent of voluntary, equitable and fair relocation of people from wildlife reserves, his leadership has led to voluntary resettlement of more than 2,000 families from multiple parks including Bhadra Tiger Reserve, which is now considered a model relocation initiative in India.
 
 PIONEER SCIENTIST
 
 As a scientist, his ground-breaking research on understanding tiger biology, and later on population ecology, saw him develop innovative methods. He was the first Indian to collar and radio-track wild tigers and leopards which he did in   in the 1990s.
 
 Recognising that tigers and leopards have unique markings, he pioneered the use of camera-traps to individually identify animals and estimate tiger-leopard population densities. Scientists across the world acknowledged and adopted his methods to study tigers, jaguars, cheetahs, snow leopards and other imperilled species. At home, my father faced political backlash and court cases through the 1990s and 2000s. It took nearly 20 years for the establishment to abandon unscientific methods and incorporate his approaches.
 
 ARMY OF VOLUNTEERS
 
 His keen interest in statistics has produced collaborations with top scientists and helped develop new methodologies and modelling approaches in wildlife ecology. He established the Centre for Wildlife Studies (CWS) and is founding director of Wildlife Conservation Society's (WCS) country program in India. These organizations continue to manage the longest running research program on wild cats anywhere in the world. My father's struggles transitioning from being an engineer to a wildlife biologist got him thinking about how to get more people involved in wildlife research and conservation. He opened up volunteering opportunities and in the last 30 years his research has engaged more than 6,000 volunteers in field projects. People have walked alongside scientists, collecting data in forests and villages across India. Thanks to this extraordinary volunteer army,   and CWS have collected and analysed vast amounts of data to produce more than 250 scientific publications and directly impacted conservation management and policy. Many volunteers have gone on to become conservationists and scientists, while others have been inspired to care and fight for wild India.
 
 Over the past 40 years, he has mentored hundreds of scientists and conservationists. Recognising the need for affordable high-quality education in wildlife, he initiated and funded the joint master's program in Wildlife Ecology and Conservation in partnership with the National Centre for Biological Sciences. Started in 2004, this program is ranked among the best in India and it has trained 88 professional wildlife scientists and conservationists to date.
 
 He is a prolific writer. He has authored eight books in English and Kannada, more than 120 peer reviewed scientific papers, and 50 popular articles. His work has been featured by the BBC, National Geographic,  , and many recognized international and Indian media outlets. Later in his career, in recognition of his remarkable contributions to wildlife science and conservation, he was conferred with many honours including the Padma Shri and Getty Award for conservation leadership.
 
 FIERCE SPIRIT
 
 During my teenage years, I saw first-hand how challenging it was to be both a scientist and conservationist. My father's research lab was burned down. His wildlife colleagues and him were constantly hounded and targeted for the many conservation battles they fought and continue to fight. There were multiple attempts to shut down his pioneering research and conservation initiatives. My mother Dr Prathibha Karanth, and some close friends and colleagues have stood by him. Through all of this, I never once saw him want to give up. His optimism, fierce commitment, passion and persistence continue to inspire me.
 
 To those close to him, he is an encyclopaedia. He is full of funny and exciting stories, be it of darting tigers or being chased on foot by wild animals. Beyond wildlife, you can spend hours talking and arguing with him on topics ranging from history and politics to GMOs and single malts! He has a wonderful sense of humour, and is known for his impatience, short-temper and speaking his mind. His gentlest side emerges with his grand-daughters with whom he draws paints and performs the silliest songs and dances.
 
 One of the most magical moments in all our lives was on a visit to a coffee farm adjacent to Bhadra. It was around 4pm, we heard alarm calls close by . My father alerted and motioned for us to come outside. As we waited quietly, a leopard appeared! She paused by a water-hole and sniffed the air. We stood still watching her with excitement. Some minutes later she walked away and eventually disappeared from our sight. My daughter started to jump saying “I saw my first big cat! I saw my first leopard.“
 
 My parents and I looked at each other knowing that this was among the most incredible sightings we would share as a family!
 
 Dr Krithi Karanth is Associ ate Conservation Scientist at the Wildlife Conservation Society.
 
