PANAJI: It's a historical moment. Stepping onto the state's soil will be Europe's first prime minister of Indian origin, and he has Goan blood coursing through his veins.

  Even the date of his ascendance to power was significant for Goa. On November 25, 1510, Afonso de Albuquerque took over Goa from the reign of  , with the help of Goan natives. Five-hundred-and-five years later, on the same date, November 25 to be precise, Goan-origin Costa took over the reins of  .
  
  With the background of history, culture, language, heritage, cuisine, botany, law and so much more intertwining Goa and Portugal, Panaji-based physician Oscar Rebelo describes the relationship as “bittersweet”.
  
  “It is in the interests of our people that we, as two nations, invest in the dreams of our future rather than cling to the ghosts of the past,” he says.
  
  Portuguese of Goan-origin, and fellow at New Delhi-based think-tank, Carnegie India, Constantino Xavier says that Portugal could be key to helping India strike trade and security deals from South America to Africa.
  
  “For almost five centuries, Goa was at the heart of a vast empire and trading network that spanned the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific oceans connecting India to southern America, Africa and east Asia. There is no better location than Goa to host a strategic and economic dialogue between Indian and Portuguese-speaking officials and other stakeholders. China opted, since 2008, to establish the Macau Forum to engage with the Lusophone countries at the ministerial and economic levels,” he says.
  
  Xavier points out that India’s trade volume with Portuguese-speaking economies and Macau is currently peaking at $20 billion, on par with total trade volumes with Germany and Japan.
  
  “Nobody else is more symbolically entitled to facilitate Indo-Portuguese cooperation in several domains than  , whose family history connects India, Africa and Europe,” he adds.
  
  Will the visit by Costa, who answers to the nickname ‘Babush’, a   term of endearment to address a little boy, see another chapter in the history of the two lands being written? Only time will tell.
