THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala tourism development corporation (KTDC) and  , a popular online cab service in the country , have come together to promote and raise awareness on 'sustainable responsible tourism' , the theme for this year's World Tourism Day celebrations, which falls on September 27.

 The aim is to encourage people to plan road trips and unravel many lesser-known locations in the state that are now easily accessible. Kerala will be one among the seven states, including Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Assam, where Ola has tied up with key tourism agencies for the campaign.
 
 Ola has already rolled out the 14day campaign that features actress and vlogger Shenaz Treasury travelling to all these seven states to rediscover 21different lesser-known locations. The campaign, which was flagged off from Bengaluru on September 16, has now entered its fifth leg with Shenaz arriving in Kerala on September 23, where she is travelling to Fort Kochi, Kodungallur (Muziris) and Kumarakom, before heading to Maharashtra.
 
 “It is great to see that corporates like Ola are building commuting so lutions to help both citizens and tourists, “ said state tourism additional director  . With tourists from across the globe visiting the state throughout the year, it is important that they have a convenient and comfortable way of commuting from one city to another, he added.
 
 According to  , the vice-president (operations), Ola, a hassle-free intercity commute is extremely necessary for a state like Kerala, `a home to some of the most popular hill stations and plantations in the country, which sees a high influx of tourists round the year'. “We are aiming to make outstation travel as convenient and reliable as daily commute. We are thrilled to get recognized by KTDC and are delighted to play a significant role in building the tourism ecosystem here through our solutions like Ola Outstation and Rentals, “ he added.
 
 Excited to be a part of the campaign, travel vlogger Shenaz said the natural and cultural heritage across the country was facing a grave threat.
 
