TRICHY: The judicial magistrate court II here has directed the city police to file a case against former electricity minister   R Viswanathan and three others for threatening a Trichy-based real estate businessman to part with Rs 50 lakh in connection with an agreement over the setting up of a solar panels. However, police said they are yet to take a decision on filing the case. 

 The court passed the direction order to K K Nagar police based on a complaint from the businessman S Loganathan, 54, from K K Nagar on May 23. According to an affidavit filed by his counsel S Arumugam, Natham Viswanathan, his alleged benamis V   from Tirunelveli, Arun Vijaya Kumar from Chennai and   from Dindigul intimidated him and his wife with dire consequences on several occasions over phone and in person from 2016 till February 2017.
 
 Loganathan alleged that they insisted him to pay them Rs 50 lakh after they breached their verbal agreement to set up a solar power project on 201 acres of land in   village in   taluk in Pudukkottai district. 
 
 It all began after Kamaraj allegedly introduced himself as a benami of Natham Viswanathan, former minister in the previous   government and struck a deal with Loganathan to arrange solar panels in the village in 2015. Accepting the deal, Loganathan had arranged for 201 acres of land including his 50 acres in the same village. Kamaraj had paid him Rs 20 lakh to collect the documents from the land owners.
 
 But, even after few months, there was no further action from Kamaraj. Repeated attempts to contact them also went in vain. Loganathan said that he had spent Rs 50 lakh to collect the documents from the land owners. Finally, when he managed to contact the trio and insisted them to complete the deal, Loganathan found out that the three had directly met the land owners and struck a deal with them after bypassing him. 
 
 So, Loganathan asked them to return his money that he had spent for collecting the documents. But, Kamaraj and others at the behest of Viswanathan had threatened him to get out of the deal and pay Rs 50 lakh to them, he claimed. 
 
 Fearing consequences, Loganathan lodged a complaint to the K K Nagar police in February but no action was taken on it. Eventually, he moved a petition to JM II court on May 4 seeking direction to the police to file a case. 
 
 Police said they would take appropriate action after consulting with legal advisors.
 
