NEW DELHI: The   on discrimination in educational institutions is likely to be revisited following growing demand for implementation of the recommendations after the death of JNU MPhil student J Muthukrishnan on Monday. 

 According to a senior official at the ministry of human resource development, the government is taking up the matter seriously and “is looking at the developments at various campuses.”
 
 While the government on Wednesday assured the opposition that it would ensure justice in the case of Muthukrishnan’s death, it is also considering request for a job for his sisters.
 
 Muthukrishnan was found hanging from the ceiling fan at a friend’s place in Munirka Vihar on Monday. It has been alleged that he has been facing discrimination from peers as well as faculty members from the time he joined the university in July 2016.
 
 There has been a growing demand for implementation of the   committee   in educational institutions since the suicide incident of Rohith Vemula of Hyderabad University.
 
 The Thorat committee was set up under the then chairperson of the University Grants Commission, Sukhadeo Thorat, to look into cases of differential treatment of SC/ ST students at All India Institute of Medical Science in 2011.
 
 The committee made a number of recommendations including setting up a special office called ‘Equal Opportunity Office’ to deal with all the issues relating to SC, ST and OBC students, implement the remedial coaching programme and other schemes for the SC/ST students. It also said that students of these categories should be nominated as representative on all committees dealing with matter related to students.
 
 “HRD minister Prakash Javadekar is concerned with the developments. The ministry is likely to take up the matter with the UGC as well as look at the recommendations made in the Thorat committee’s report and its implementation aspect,” said the official.
 
 The ministry “may even set up a sub-committee on the matter so that such incidents do not happen in educational institutions,” said the official. “Though nothing has been finalised so far. The ministry is in contact with JNU as well,” he added.
 
 
