KOCHI:   could spend less than 20% of the amount allotted under plan fund projects despite the fact that the local body has got less than one-and-a-half months to complete the  .

 No groundwork has been done for the   to be presented by mid-March. Still, mayor would be going to Mexico to attend an international conference by the month end, deputy mayor who is having a hectic schedule after assuming the charge of   hardly gets time to attend to the corporation's issue and officials go on leave every now and then leaving utter chaos in  .
 
 According to councillors with the opposition, the corporation authorities haven't held any discussions with them over the preparation of the budget. "Last year, they had sought suggestions from all the councillors including those belonging to opposition. But, they haven't done any homework so far," said V P Chandran, councillor from opposition. "Deputy mayor rarely attend the meetings of corporation council and finance standing committee after he became the DCC president," he said.
 
 In the last week of January, top officials, councillors, standing committee chairpersons etc went to Jaipur to attend the wedding of a former official. The meeting of corporation council had to be postponed due to the unavailability of councillors. "In the past three or four months, the corporation council meetings had been reduced to once a month. The council which is to discuss many issues affecting the public should meet more frequently," said Sudha Dileep Kumar.
 
 Split in the ruling front also has slow peddled the civic body's administration. Of the total eight standing committees, only three support the mayor.
 Health standing committee chairperson V K Minimol, town planning standing committee chairperson Shiny Mathew, and works standing committee chairman P M Harris, all belonging to the ruling front, are against the mayor. Poornima Narayanan, chairperson, standing committee for education, belongs to the opposition. Implementation of Centrally designed projects like Amrut and SmartCity also are slow due to lack of coordination among the ruling front.
 
 Mayor would be going to Mexico to attend global mayors' meet to be held there from February 22 to 25.
 
