GANDHINAGAR: Amid a lot of speculation about early elections being called before the state assembly’s term ends in December 2017, Gujarat chief minister   ruled out the possibility of advancing the elections. While speaking to mediapersons on Tuesday in Ahmedabad, Rupani blamed the Congress for spreading ‘rumours’ about early polls, which, according to him, was the opposition party’s strategy to keep its workers busy.

 “I do not see any possibility of early assembly polls. I believe the elections will be held on schedule. This is just a rumour spread by the Congress to keep their workers busy. I don’t believe polls will be held early,” Rupani told.
 
  president Bharatsinh Solanki and leader of opposition (LOP) in the state assembly Shankersinh Vaghela had on a few occasions claimed that elections may be held early. They even asked their party cadre to prepare for early polls.
 
 That Prime Minister   suddenly started making frequent visits to Gujarat is also considered as a sign indicating early elections in political circles. Since September 2016, Modi has visited various parts of Gujarat five times and he is now scheduled to visit again in January.
 
 The way Vijay Rupani says in party meetings that he is here to play a 20-20 match and not even a one-day match has also fuelled such speculation in political circles.
 
 Rupani, after taking over as CM, came out with at least half a dozen ordinances without even waiting a month or two for the assembly session and has shown great urgency in bringing key ordinances like the prohibition amendment, hookah bar ban ordinance etc.
 
 The sudden increase in frequency of visits of the   (RSS) sarsanghchalak   and the RSS brass has also been considered an omen for early elections in state. In less than two months, Bhagwat has come to Gujarat at least six times and he is still in Gujarat.
 
 Despite Rupani ruling out early elections, key leaders in the BJP also believe that aggressive campaing mode of the PM, Mohan Bhagwat and the party and government is a clear sign of early elections. “When BJP was supposed to select Anandiben Patel’s successor, Rupani had publicly ruled out his being CM. Nitin Patel’s name was floated till the very last minute, but Rupani’s name was suddenly proposed in the end. So it may be a strategy to make this statement,” the BJP leader said.
 
