BENGALURU: Karnataka received investments of about $1 billion in startups over the past two years and has retained its lead as one of the startup capitals of the world. 

 In his customary address in Hindi to the joint session of Karnataka legislature here on Monday, Governor  , said over 4, 000 startups have received investments of over $1 billion over the past two years with the launch of a new vibrant startup policy. "Bengaluru has seen good competition from major cities of the world in the startup ecosystem, but it performed well over others because of the state's vibrant startup policy," Vala said.
 
 Besides, Karnataka continues to lead in the IT and biotechnology sectors in the country with a growth rate of 10% to 12% a year, creating new avenues for employment.
 
 To retain skilled human resources, Vala said centres of excellence will be established at sub-centres of the government tool room and training centre in Bengaluru, Kalaburagi, Dandeli and Mysuru. Besides, Karnataka Small Scale Industries Development Corporation is also taking steps to establish new industrial estates in Sarathi, Chikkahosahalli, Muttugadahalli, Ullathikaval, Kudapura and Hreshakunahalli.
 
  Bengaluru traffic 
 
 The governor also sought to address Bengaluru's traffic issues in his speech listing out the steps taken by the state government to mitigate it. He also appreciated the recognition from the   which recently rated Bengaluru as the world's most dynamic city. 
 
 Vala said that the government was pro-active in introducing suburban rail for the Bengaluru Metropolitan Area in collaboration with the railway ministry, for which a MoU has already been signed. The   is poised to complete 42.38km of Phase 1 of   by April 2017 and work under Phase 2 was being executed at a fast pace, the governor added.
 
 During the present and the next year, he said various roads and other infrastructure works worth Rs 7, 300 crore will be taken up in Bengaluru, and steps will also be taken to provide Cauvery water to 110 new villages under the BBMP limits.
 
