CHENNAI: Two days after his elevation as working president of the  , 63-year-old M K   has given up the post of youth wing secretary, a position he held for more than three decades.

 In a party press release issued on Friday, DMK general secretary K Anbazhagan announced that 52-year-old M P Saminathan, former highways minister, will now be the party’s youth wing secretary. S P Chandrasekar, son of former minister S P Thangavelu, will be deputy to Saminathan. The youth wing is the brainchild of Stalin, which he created when he was in his teens. He became the secretary of the wing in 1984 when he was 31. Since then he has held on to the post despite his rise in the party ranks. Stalin is now left with the post of party treasurer apart from the working president. Thus he holds the second and fourth positions in the party hiearchy.
 
 For Saminathan, it is apromotion from the post of joint secretary of the youth wing. Saminathan has been an MLA from Tirupur district three times, but lost to the   candidate in Tirupur north in the 2016 assembly election. He was minister of highways during the DMK regime between 2006 and 2011.
 
 “It is an honour to be the secretary of the DMK’s youth wing. With the cooperation of ‘Thalapathi’ (Stalin) and present office bearers of the youth wing, I will strive to develop the party and spread its ideology among the youth who are not members of the wing,” Saminathan told TOI. Already ‘Thalapathi’ has set the platform by wooing youth since the assembly election last year. He has addressed several meetings in colleges and IT companies asking youth to join politics. “As he has assumed the post of working president of the DMK, our job is to strengthen his hands,” Saminathan said.
 
 “My job is to include many youth who are directionless in the state. Several of them in villages are ready to join politics but they are clueless. As youth wing secretary, I will strive to increase the membership of the wing and also strengthen the party in the western districts,” said Saminathan.
 
 The DMK did not perform well in the western districts and the appointment of Saminathan must be with an eye to develop the party base in these districts. “Stalin has been participating in various protests in western districts like Avinashi Athikadavu, etc. While all top posts in the AIADMK have been cornered by one dominant caste, Stalin, by appointing a gounder as youth wing chief, is trying to woo the community in the western districts,” said political analyst Ravinthran Thuraisamy.
 
