MUMBAI:   from Mira-Bhayander and corporator   and five officers of   (MBMC) have been booked for allegedly demanding Rs 2 crore in extortion from a builder in 2015. The MLA has denied the charges.

 The   in Mira Road on January 25 filed an FIR under sections 385 (extortion) and 34 (common intention) of IPC following a Bombay high court order on Monday. The complainant, Vinod Trivedi (45), owner of Balaji Builder and Developer, had approached the court alleging that the police did not register his complaint against Mehta.
 
 Refuting the charges, Mehta said, “Trivedi had approached police in November 2015 but was unable to prove his allegations. The police on investigation found the charges baseless.” He added that the court has only asked police to take cognizance of the complaint. 
 
 Trivedi had alleged that Mehta along with MBMC town planner Dilip Gheware, assistant commissioner (encroachment) Chandrakant Borse, ward officers Swapnil Sawant and Sanjay Dhonde, junior engineer Bhupesh Kakde had demanded Rs 2 crore for permission to construct a residential building on the Mira-Bhayander Road. Trivedi said he had the development rights of the property. In May 2015, when Trivedi approached Gheware for the commencement certificate (plinth level), he was allegedly told to speak to Mehta. Trivedi instead waited for the CC. He met Gheware and reminded him of a clause where the builder could go ahead with construction if the civic body failed to respond to the CC application within 15 days.
 
 On September 15, 2015, Trivedi was issued a stop work notice and asked to obtain the CC. On October 3, 2015, the MBMC demolished his structure. On November 17, 2015, Mehta allegedly called up Trivedi and demanded Rs 2 crore. Then Trivedi approached police . 
 
 Mehta said Trivedi was issued the notice as he had used fake documents. “Trivedi has been using blackmail tactics to get permission,” said Mehta. 
 
 Last year, Mehta grabbed headlines when he gifted a Lamborghini sports car to his wife on her birthday on August 26 and it rammed a stationery auto rickshaw. In November last year, Mehta was acquitted of a 14-year-old bribery charges by the Thane court. He was accused of demanding Rs 20,000.
 
