Gastroenteritis claimed lives of a 90-year-old woman and 65-year-old man at Saholi village under Sudhar block on late Wednesday night. Importantly, the health department has declared   outbreak in the village as more than 120 patients have been diagnosed with diarrhoea in the past 24 hours.

 Ten patients have been admitted to Community Health Centre (CHC) in Sudhar.
 
 Contaminated water is the cause of water-borne diseases in the village, said the health department.
 
 District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Kumar said, “We got to know about the deaths of two patients due to gastroenteritis. The 65-year-old man had loose motions and vomited a number of times. The 95-year-old woman was already unwell for the past one week and was suffering from diarrhoea as well.” 
 
 “After the deaths were reported, we checked out the village and declared an outbreak,” he added. 
 
 This is the second diarrhoea outbreak after Giaspura in the district. A few cases were also reported from Jawahar Nagar and Jawadi in the city as well. 
 
 Dr Ramesh said, “The health department has checked as many as 345 houses, distributed 1,600 chlorine tablets, 220 pamphlets, 600 ORS packs, and held eight group meetings so far in Saholi.” 
 
 Jeevesh Kumar from village said, “Three of my children are unwell and two have been admitted to the civil hospital. We are really scared.”
 
 Another resident Raman Kumar said, “We have been getting contaminated water for the past so many days. We have complained to the authorities about the same. But deaths on Wednesday night terrified us.” 
 
 A resident, Vimal Kumari said, “We had been boiling water before drinking. Colour of water has also changed and at times, the water used to yellow coloured. Still me and my husband have been diagnosed with diarrhoea. And my 11-year-old daughter is also passing watery stools with blood.” 
 
 On June 23, diarrhoea outbreak was reported from two areas of Giaspura. In total, the area saw more 600 patients during the outbreak.
 
 Meanwhile, complaints of water contamination and a few cases of diarrhoea were also reported from Jawadi and Jawahar Nagar. 
 
 This is the fourth death due to gastroenteritis and diarrhoea in the district in the past 15 days. Other victims were 19-year-old boy from Hargobind Nagar, 9-year-old boy from Jawadi.
 
 
