PATNA: A delegation of Bihar chapter of   Officers’ Association on Monday met assembly   and demanded CBI inquiry into the   (BSSC) examination paper leak and   in which senior IAS official Sudhir Kumar has been jailed. Sudhir was the BSSC chairman when the scam surfaced. A special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe the scam arrested the 1987 batch official on Friday.

 Fumed over lack of any action on the verbal assurances by the state government for Sudhir’s release, the association has also communicated the matter to the Centre. Its treasurer and labour resources department principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh told TOI that a resolution on this issue has been sent to Union cabinet secretary and secretary, department of personnel and training (DoPT). The association had, on Sunday, submitted a memorandum to the governor demanding Sudhir’s immediate release.
 
 The delegation was headed by the association secretary Vivek Kumar Singh, Arvind Chaudhary, Rahul Singh, Harjot Kaur, Dipak Kumar Singh, Bala Murgan D, Divesh Sehara and Kuldeep Narayan. “The Speaker assured us to convey our concern to the state government,” Dipak said. Though Dipak claimed that the Speaker described the arrests as unfortunate, sources in the Speaker’s office denied that he made any such remark.
 
 As per the Sunday resolution, the IAS officials were wearing black badges during their meeting with Choudhary.
 
 Bihar Rural Development Service Association also expressed solidarity with the IAS officials. Its general secretary Om Rajput said its members would wear black bands while discharging their duties. He also demanded release of all the rural development services officials, who are in jail in different cases. The association also took a resolution not to execute any verbal orders from senior officials and act only in case of written orders.
 
 Meanwhile, IAS Officers Wives’ Association also joined the protest. Its president Purnima Singh, wife of chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh, stated that Sudhir’s arrest was unwarranted as he was cooperating with the ongoing investigation into the job scam.
 
 The Bihar Police Services Association on Monday also demanded withdrawal of suspension of Sonepur SDPO Md Ali Ansari on the charge of dereliction in duty during the kite festival on January 14 at Sabbalpur diara when 24 people died in a boat tragedy. The association observed that when other officials had only been transferred on the same charges, why Ansari was suspended. It demanded a separate departmental enquiry into the matter.
 
 
