BHUBANESWAR: Though often pilloried for being a transgender, 27-year-old Meghna Sahoo, an MBA pass-out from Bhubaneswar is now the most talked-about person in Odisha. Meghna became the first transgender in the state to have got married to a man, who befriended her on Facebook. The couple got hitched as per Hindu rituals here on Republic Day.

 “I salute Basudeba Nayak for taking such a bold step to marry me. Basudeba was unfazed by the social stigma attached to a transgender like me. I also prove those wrong who think a transgender person cannot marry a normal man,” said Meghna in her bridal attire at Nayapally Durga Mandap. 32-year-old Basudeba, employed as a supervisor in a private security agency here, is the estranged husband of a woman, who ditched him and married another man in 2012. Basudeba, a resident of Jatni on city outskirts, has a four-year-old son.
 
 “Since I cannot attain motherhood, I will treat Basudeba’s child as my own son. We three will stay in Bhubaneswar,” said Meghna, who currently works as a journalist with a vernacular weekly paper. Meghna said she underwent sex change four years ago.
 
 Basudeba said he came in contact with Meghna on Facebook a year ago. “I told Meghna about my family discord. I also discussed with my family members and relatives after I decided to marry Meghna. I do not find anything weird in marrying the transgender person. The Supreme Court recently gave the transgender a special identity in the society. I am not worried about general perceptions of public,” said Basudeba. 
 
 People of all walks of life, including members of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community and mayor A N Jena attended the wedding ceremony. Family members of Meghna and relatives of the groom were also present.
 
 Meghna’s father Jaya Krushna Sahoo, who stays at Bharatpur on city outskirts, said he gave consent for the marriage. “Meghna was born like a boy. I have two other sons. But we witnessed gender-related abnormality with him around 10 years ago. Meghna left home and settled in Bhubaneswar. She chose social activism. Basudeba earlier this month approached me with the marriage proposal. I agreed,” said Sahoo, a driver and small businessman.
 
 Social activist and All Odisha   president Pratap Sahu, who coordinated the marriage, said the marriage set an example for people, who look down upon persons like Meghna.
 
