GHAZIABAD: The 65-year-old owner of a small dairy farm in Shaheed Nagar was stabbed to death, allegedly by some neighbourhood youths, shortly after midnight on Thursday.

 The deceased, Singhasan Yadav, was sleeping on the ground floor of his house when he was attacked. The incident acquired a communal hue as the accused are from a different community, leading to tension in the area. A heavy police contingent was posted there on Thursday, led by senior cops. . 
 
 According to the family of the deceased, Singhasan had an altercation with some youths just outside his home on Wednesday night. “There were three youths, who were making objectionable remarks against our family, particularly the women, to which my father objected,” said Madan Yadav, his son. Apparently, such abusive behaviour was not new. “An altercation broke out and one of the youths, Anas, slapped my father. We then had to intervene and lodged a complaint with police,” he added. “The matter was sorted out when Anas’s uncle, who lives nearby, mediated, after which we went to sleep,” he continued. 
 
 Fikuna Yadav (60), wife of the deceased, who was sleeping in the room with her husband, said she woke up shortly after midnight when she heard her husband crying. “It was dark, but I heard my husband crying “Maar dala, maar dala (They have killed me, killed me)”. When I reached his bed, he was clutching his neck with blood oozing out of it. He had been stabbed,” said Fikuna Yadav. “I then called my sons who were sleeping upstairs,” she added. 
 
 “When I rushed downstairs, I saw Anas and his friend fleeing, while my father was lying on the cot. We rushed him to GTB Hospital in Delhi, where he was declared brought dead,” said Madan. 
 
 As the news spread, neighbours gathered in large numbers. By morning, hundreds of people had flocked to the Yadav house, including members of fringe outfit Hindu Raksha Dal (HRD). “An elderly man has been murdered, and we’re here to protest,” said Pinky Choudhary of HRD, who had arrived with his supporters.
 
 The police soon reached the area in full force. “Given the communal nature of the crime, we reached the spot in full force. I’m camping in the area, along with other senior cops and the additional district magistrate,” said Salmantaj Patil, the SP (city). 
 
 An FIR has been lodged by family members. 
 
