KOLKATA: In the recent past, it has not been a rare sight where an errant driver has roughed up a law enforcer after flouting traffic rules. But on Monday morning, it was a policeman trying to “discipline“ another cop -who is a driver.

 While a   sergeant has claimed he was beaten up after being knocked down by a police (constable) driver, the latter has alleged he was slapped twice by the sergeant for no apparent fault of his. Even as the two cops went about threatening each other during office rush hour at 10am on the  , commuters stopped in amusement and watched the two men of law trying to “settle“ it on the road.
 
 According to witnesses, sergeant   had just stepped out of the Jadavpur traffic guard and turned towards Dhaka Kalibari. A Tata Sumo -reportedly belonging to a senior officer of Howrah commissionerate -was trying to take a U-turn from   towards Jadavpur. Since no such turn is allowed there, Roy, who was on his two-wheeler, tried to stop the Sumo. “But he just came and hit my bike. I fell down and my bike was partially damaged,“ claimed Roy .
 
 What transpired next is still not clear. “I saw the sergeant rebuking the driver. But he made no attempt to either detain or fine him. We saw him slapping the driver twice even as the latter tried to put up his point. A few of us reached there and tried to explain to the sergeant that he was not exactly on the right side of the law. The two men eventually came to a settlement and left,“ said   , a local shopowner.
 
 Strangely , the Jadavpur traffic guard, the Jadavpur police and Lake cops denied having any knowledge of the incident. “There is no official complaint in this regard,“ said an officer. Lower-rung officers complained despite repeated attacks on cops in the past two years, the men on such checks continue to remain soft targets. “Imagine a bike or car zipping past you. You have to first stop these drivers and riders and that too without guardrails. Once you do so, you have just two constables with you to stop their hooliganism, if they choose to turn violent. In future, we need much better planning before such road safety drives. But this is a rare incident that pitted one cop against another,“ said a south Kolkata sergeant.
 
