CHENNAI: For the first time since 1996, Greater   will present its annual budget, next month, without a mayor and council. With no elected representation, the executive body, headed by corporation commissioner D Karthikeyan who is the special officer, will plan and present the budget. While the situation is extraordinary, the budget will not be so. It is unlikely that there will be a paradigm shift or major policy change in civic governance.

 As special officer, Karthikeyan has been discharging all functions of the local body since the council’s term ended in last October and polls were suspended. However, infrastructure projects proposed under capital works and smart city will see a greater push in the 2017-18 budget. Department deputy commissioners now busy accounting for last year’s income and expenditure say plans necessary for the city will be listed. Departments proposing new schemes will be taken up for discussion if they are viable for the upcoming budget.
 
 After five years of the AIADMK rule, the cash-strapped corporation will have to increase revenue to invest in the city. Experts have been rooting for a revision of the low property tax that was last raised in 1998. The corporation largely depends on this but given political compulsions, a higher tax for land is not something that will be passed at Ripon Buildings.
 
 For residents, priorities will be to see the green cover lost to Vardah restored, rollout of practices to segregate and dispose waste, improve sanitation, and find solutions for parking congestion.
 
 Last year’s budget focused on storm water drains, following the December 2015 floods. Former mayor Saidai S Duraisamy in his final budget increased allocation to Rs 65 crore to build more drains and assigned Rs 70 crore for cleaning waterways. Late chief minister J Jayalalithaa too had laid the foundation stone a
 
 `1,094-crore integrated storm water drain project and these efforts proved worthy when waterlogging was contained during the cyclone. But other announcements continue to be on paper including proposals to raise revenue by developing commercial complexes, including a 16-storey high-rise, and setting up seven multilevel parking lots in busy localities. "The commercial complexes projects are still pending with the government," said a senior corporation official. "We are making progress in receiving sanctions for parking projects but work is slow due to lack of funds," the official said.
 
 Activists say maximum funds must be pumped into solid waste management practices. "Solid waste affects various other issues such as water bodies and hygiene," said  , founder of Arappor Iyakkam which helps neighbourhoods address civic problems. "Corporation must follow a model of incentives and penalty, and implement initiatives and announcements made so far," he said.
 
 "Since elections are due, populist measures will be tabled even without a political representation," said former bureaucrat M G Devasahayam. "Councillors have not done much to contribute to the budget, so there isn’t going to be a difference," he said.
 
 There must be efforts to transfer water management from Metrowater to corporation, said Devasahayam. The Constitutional (74th Amendment) Act, 1992 has mandated that except electricity and police everything else must come under the urban local government.
 
 
