HYDERABAD: A   is on to help   at the government   with the  . The hospital runs a waiting list of children under 6 years of age to receive the treatment under the Arogyasri scheme. The list mostly comprises children from backward Mahbubnagar and Adilabad districts. 

 A cochlear implant cost around 4 lakh. The total bill including surgery costs comes to about 8 lakh in private hospitals. Very few private hospitals have the facility to perform this surgery. After the complicated surgery, children are given therapy by medical team so that they can use the implants. The children need to attend one hour of training every day. 
 
 "Cochlear implant can be a magic cure for children, who are deaf and, as a consequence, dumb. This operation can only be done on children up to six years. There is strict selection process for the surgery. Ever since we began these surgeries in 2009, except one case, all the children were able to hear after the surgery," Dr S P Shankar, superintendent of the hospital, said. 
 
 At present, Telangana has just one cochlear implant centre in Hyderabad, while in AP it is at Guntur. But most people from both states approach the hospital in Hyderabad.
 
 According to ENT surgeons, there are many patients from Adilabad and Mahbubnagar district waiting for the surgery. They suffer from 90% hearing loss in both ears. "For every 1,000 live births, two infants are born with hearing problems and they need the implant, failing which they turn deaf as well as mute. The problem is more in these districts due to consanguineous marriages. Marriage between cousins is rampant among tribal communities," said Dr Shankar. Prevalence of such cases is low in the city as awareness against marriages within the close relations is high, he said. 
 
 To manage things better the state government is planning to open a modernised modular theatre, which costs about 70 lakh. "We want to establish similar theatres in other government hospitals too, as more children need better and advanced treatment," Dr M Ramani, director medical education. 
 
 For every 1,000 live births, two infants are born with hearing problems and they need the implant, failing which they turn deaf as well as mute. The problem is more in these districts due to consanguineous marriages. Marriage between cousins is rampant among tribal communities. Prevalence of such cases is low in the city 
 
 For every 1,000 live births, two infants are born with hearing problems and they need the implant, failing which they turn deaf as well as mute. The problem is more in these districts due to consanguineous marriages. Marriage between cousins is rampant among tribal communities. Prevalence of such cases is low in the city.
 
