Ghaziabad: Five robberies — including three in the Trans-Hindon area — were reported from   within hours of one another on Monday. 

 The accused in all the crimes, four of which took place in the daytime on the streets, were bike-borne and have not been identified yet.
 
 In Indirapuram, the cash collection agent of a private finance company was allegedly robbed of Rs 4.23 lakh by two bike-borne men on Monday afternoon. Rahul (27) alleged that he had come to Indirapuram to collect cash from a department store. He told the police that he was carrying the cash to the head office in Delhi on a motorcycle when two bike-borne men waylaid him in Abhay Khand, snatched the bag containing the cash, and fled.
 
 Around 9pm on Monday, two men on a bike snatched a gold chain from a 37-year-old woman, Pooja Saraswat, who was out cycling in the upscale Raj Nagar with her nine-year-old son. Pooja, an architect, told TOI, “My son and I were riding bicycles at night when two men on a bike overtook us and pulled up in front of us in Sector 11. They had their their faces covered with white kerchiefs and the headlight of the bike had been shut down. One of them who had a gun in his hand got off the bike and pushed me to the ground. He tried to snatch the chain from my neck but my son put up a fight with him. With my son in his arms, he snatched my chain and began running towards his mate, who was still on the bike. When I cried out for help, half a dozen people gathered and the men thew my kid on the road before fleeing the spot.”
 
 In Sahibabad, three men on a motorcycle allegedly snatched a gold earring from a 36-year-old woman when she was out on a morning walk. Asha Tiwari (36), was walking along with three other women in Lajpat Nagar around 6.45am when the crime took place.
 
 Tiwari told TOI, “Three men came on a bike from behind while we were walking on the main road, and one of them snatched the ring from my right ear. We shouted for help but the bikers fled swiftly. Only the one in front was wearing a helmet,” she said. 
 
 The woman was lucky not to suffer injuries as the lock of the earring came apart when the accused pulled it. A complaint was registered at the local police outpost in Shani Chowk of Lajpat Nagar.
 
 In Sanjay Nagar, a 30-year-old schoolteacher was allegedly robbed of her gold chain by three bike-borne around 11am. Kalpana Dwivedi, who lives in Sector 23 of Sanjay Nagar, said she was returning from school when her chain was snatched.
 
 “I was walking home, when two men on a bike snatched the gold chain from my neck near Sanjay Nagar M-block, and fled the spot,” she added. 
 
 A complaint has been registered in Sector 23 Sanjay Nagar police outpost.
 
 In Vasundhara, cops said an elderly woman was duped into handing over gold ornaments to two men, who made off with them. Two men on a motorcycle allegedly approached Shakuntala Devi in front of a temple near Vartalok Society around 1pm on Monday, and offered to double the quantity of her ornaments by ‘magic’. The duo instead fled after she handed over her gold chain and earrings to them. A police officer said an FIR will be registered under Section 418 (cheating) of IPC. 
 
 
