NEW DELHI: A day after he sparked speculation by skipping the luncheon meeting hosted by Congress chief   for opposition parties,   said that his meeting with Prime Minister   had no political subtext.

 “I did not meet him in the capacity of the JD(U) chief but as the state chief minister. It was not a political meeting.Why is the media reading too much into it?“ he said even as he praised PM's effort to help de-silt Ganga.
 
 “Bihar has an emotional connect with Mauritius as half of the population there is of Bihari origin. PM had invited me for the luncheon as the state CM and I deci ded to accept it,“ Kumar clarified scotching speculation about renewal of his ties with NDA which he left to protest against Modi's projection as PM candidate. However, he kept a safe distance from the allegations of corruption swirling around his coalition partner, RJD boss Lalu Prasad. “There are allegations and counter allegations,“ he said when reporters asked him about the undisclosed assets of members of Lalu's family. “I respond only to facts.“
 
 Kumar, who was accompanied by JD(U) MP , Harivansh, was appreciative of the PM for his initiative of de-silting the Ganga in Bihar. He told reporters that he requested PM to send a team of experts to the state before June 10 as rise in the level of riverbed causes flood in vast areas during monsoon, while it dries up in vast stretches because of its reduced capacity to hold water. Political circles saw the meeting as significant because it came at a time political parties are gearing up for imminent presidential polls amid the prospect of BJP nominee occupying the top constitutional office. Also, the probe into the properties acquired by Lalu's family appear to have put Nitish in an awkward spot.
 
 JD(U) sources termed as “far-fetched“ the speculation triggered by Nitish's meeting with PM a day after he chose not to turn up for Sonia lunch.“PMO sent invitation to chief minister on Thursday only whereas decision to send Sharad Yadav to Sonia Gandhi's lunch had already been taken.Moreover, the CM capitalised on the opportunity as he held meeting with the PM and urged him to expedite desilting of Ganga,“ a JD (U) leader said.
 
