Despite two Central legislations, and several court directives in the matter, the   safety precautions continues unabated. Two lives of   were almost lost on Friday due to callousness of the Roads and Buildings department. The incident took place in Sector 19 in Gandhinagar, outside K type bungalows allotted to secretary-level IAS officials. The   in Gandhinagar hired a contractor —   — to clear the sewage line in Sector 19 after complaints of water logging from local residents. Around 4 pm, safai worker   entered the sewage line without apron or oxygen mask to lay the Jetting machine pipe.

 Within minutes he turned unconscious. To retrieve him, another worker Anil Purabia was lowered but he too fell unconscious. Fire brigade and 108 emergency ambulance were immediately summoned and fire officials were first to reach the spot. They extracted the workers and administered them oxygen for about 30 minutes before they regained consciousness. They were then shifted to Gandhinagar Civil Hospital where their condition is said to be stable. After the incident, Roads and Buildings department put the blame squarely on the contractor. One of its officials went to the extent of saying the “matter was routine as no lives were lost.”
 
 
 
 
 Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who also holds the Roads and Building portfolio, said, “I will look into the matter. We will definitely take action against the contractor and responsible officials of the department.” Roads and Buildings’ deputy engineer Kalpesh Shah said: “Whenever we hire a contractor we enter into an agreement not to lower workers without security gear or oxygen masks. In this case, as per my information, the safety measures were not used. We will take action against the contractor.”
 
 
 
 
 Roads and Buildings department’s Work Assistant Rajni Suthar said: “Usually, during Jetting work masks or security gear is not necessary. In this case, there was no possibility of any fatality. It was a routine incident.” Hiten Makwana, AMC safai kamdar and leader of the Gujarat Mazdoor Sangh, said: “All the mandatory equipment like oxygen masks and security gear are not made available to safai workers during cleaning operations. It’s unfortunate that this is done in 95% of the cases despite Supreme Court guidelines.”
 
 
 
 
 Mahesh Modh, chief fire officer, Gandhinagar, commented: “Two lives would have been lost today if we had reached the spot even five minutes late. Prima facie, it’s the carelessness of the contractor and officials present. Police Inspector Jatin Prajapati, Sector 21 police station, said “We are yet to receive any formal complaint. Usually, in such cases after receiving Medico-Legal-Case from the Civil Hospital, an FIR is registered under the atrocity Act. Also, inquiry is conducted by SC/ST Cell DySP.” Till the time of this report going to press, no FIR had been filed at the police station.
 
 
 
 
 Parsottam Vaghela, founder of Manav Garima, an NGO working for rights of safai workers, said due to the lack of awareness or sincerity of police officials towards the issue, a criminal case is not lodged in such incidents. Due to lack of evidence, the case generally gets defused in the court. Citing an instance, Vaghela said three manual scavengers lost lives on March 27 in Bhavnagar due to suffocation from methane gas after being lowered into the sewage line. “I had a hard time convincing police officials to file an FIR. I e-mailed and text messaged laws and Acts to the officials. After 10 days of back and forth, they filed an FIR,” Vaghela said. Till date, no statements of the family members of the victims or witnesses have been recorded. Even the charge sheet, to be submitted in 90 days, has not been filed in the case. When asked to comment on it, Bhavnagar Deputy Superintendent of Police (DYSP) D D Chaudhari refused the allegations and said the probe is on in the case. The contractor involved in the case tried to take anticipatory bail but the court rejected it.
 
 
 
 
 Dilip Chauhan, a safai worker, died while cleaning the manhole in Savarkundla in March this year. His father, Jeevram Chauhan, told Mirror: “We had to fight for our rights. We did not take the possession of Dilip’s dead body till action was taken in the matter. Savarkundla municipality paid us Rs 10 lakh compensation and promised a job for one of the family members. Repeated attempts to talk to DYSP R P Parmar did not yield any result.
 
 Victim’s family struggles for money
 In Ahmedabad, Jasubhai Gangadiya died while cleaning a manhole in October, 2016, in Ashapuri Society of Vejalpur.   told Mirror: “We are yet to get any compensation. Besides that, we had to fight to get an FIR registered against the chairman and secretary of the society. It was only after we refused to take possession of the body that the police filed the FIR. Victim’s wife Revaben said, “Our family is going through a tough time. We are heavily indebted and struggling to survive.”
 
 Shoddy probe despite DGP’s circular
 Since Prohibition of Employment of Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act 2013 came into being, 32 safai workers have lost lives in Gujarat while doing cleaning job. Mostly, police fails to register FIR and treats such incidents as cases of accidental deaths. Director General of Police (DGP) Geetha Johri’s offi ce issued a circular on May 3, 2017, pulling up police offi cials for registering accidental death cases and not lodging crime under IPC for the death of manual scavengers. The circular was marked to police commissioners, IG range offi cers and Police Superintendents of the state. In a scathing criticism, the circular says police offi cials are ignorant about law passed by the Centre and SC judgment in this matter. The law clearly states: “Deaths due to entering sewer lines without safety gears should be made a crime even in emergency situations.”
 
