Thane: Gone are the days when staunch political party cadre burnt midnight oil and worked tirelessly during the   for the victory of the party’s official candidates, but now the scenario has changed completely as the committed cadre of   has turned extinct and instead a flourishing and seasonal business of man power services is on the offer for the politicians.

 In the past couple of decades, considering the evolution of the pre-poll political campaigns, the entire trend of the elections and electioneering has undergone a sea change with all the work being eased out due to the social media and several facilities being made available for the candidates and the parties in just one click. 
 
 Even the electioneering is outsourced with the team being made available at a cost. The rates differ from activity to activity and the workers are paid for their services irrespective of winning or losing in the elections.
 
 Though all the political parties claimed that they have committed and ideological cadre support at the grass-root level and that the foot-soldiers work for them selflessly. But in reality, all the services come at a cost when it comes to show the strength. 
 
 Ashish D, a youngster who just graduated and in search of a job told TOI, “Some of my friends were approached by a politicians close aid and who offered us a package of all pre-poll campaign and offered us Rs 4 lakh for a group of 15. The package is excluding food, booze and travelling expenses for which the payment is made extra,” he said. 
 
 The pre-poll work involves looking after the banner printing, to compile the list of voters as well as door to door campaigns and to garner the manpower in the morcha’s, bike rallies, political meetings etc, the youngster informed TOI. 
 
 While the post-poll work involves the counting booth duty in which ballots are opened and a tab is counting the votes. 
 
 Another 22-year-old youngster who did not wished to be named shared, “Rather than spending a free time roaming with friends and doing nothing constructive, I pitched in the idea and my parents consented me of doing   and earn a penny,” the boy said.
 
 Liaqat  , a veteran   supporter from   has its own way to support the party. 
 
 Irrespective of the political parties making inroads, he has typical style of dawning the Indira Gandhi pictured photograph and supporting the party—whether it losses or wins. 
 
 “Come what may, I will keep on supporting the congress party as my thinking is submersed in the ideology of the party irrespective of which Gandhi is the party president,” Dhole said.
 
