LUCKNOW: A man injured critically in an accident could not reach the hospital on time because of a   and   on the way in   on Saturday. The victim was taken on an   to KGMU  , where doctors declared him brought dead. 

 A resident of Katari Tola in Thakurganj, Shashikant Rastogi (25) was an e-rickshaw driver. He was waiting for passengers in front of Kalicharan College near   Crossing when a UPSRTC bus knocked his vehicle from behind. The rickshaw toppled and Rastogi got injured critically.
 
 Thakurganj SHO Deepak Dubey told TOI, “Commuters and locals thronged the site, causing a traffic jam. The nearest police outpost is 500 metres from the spot. We rushed as soon as we got the information but could not take our vehicle to the spot because of heavy traffic.”
 
 Dubey said when he and other police personnel reached the spot on foot, they found Rastogi alive but gasping. 
 
 “I thought of calling 108 ambulance but it would have taken time, given traffic congestion, so I rushed him to the hospital on an e-rickshaw,” he said. He added that the UPSRTC bus had been seized, while efforts were on to nab the driver who fled.
 
 Locals blamed police, saying Koneshwar Crossing is always crowded because of traffic mismanagement. “Police are generally absent from the busy marketplace and the accident on Saturday was a result of mismanagement,” said a shopkeeper. An eyewitness said that even after the accident, police failed to clear the traffic jam.
 
 
 
 The first hour after an accident is the golden hour. A life could have been saved on Saturday had police enforced traffic rules in the area or even got it cleared as soon as they got information about the accident. An ambulance would have given first aid and life support to Rastogi while on way to the hospital. On the other hand, public should realise that crowding a place after an accident will only aggravate the problem. They should not block the road in protest or out of curiosity. Crowding after such incidents is a common feature in the city, as also the sight of ambulances caught in traffic jam.
 
