VIJAYAWADA: With summer making an early advent this year, the homeless (mostly beggars and destitutes) poor in the city are running for cover unable to withstand the soaring day temperatures. Though   claims to have been spending huge funds on building shelters for the homeless, there is no trace of them on the ground. 

 The civic body did initiate steps in right earnest to build three shelters for the urban homeless, but completion of their construction is still pending, pushing the target group into a state of delirium due to hyperpyrexia caused by temperatures above 35 degree Celsius.
 
 The homeless people are forced to spend most of the time under the hot sun in the daytime. They are sleeping in the parks, bus shelters, railway stations and on the road dividers in the night. Vijayawada city, which is home to more than 12 lakh population, has just three night shelter homes with a capacity of 50 beds each. As the three shelters are cope up with the increasing demand, VMC had taken the initiative to construct another three shelters at Raghavaiah park,   and the other at VMC vehicle depot in 2015. Subsequently, Rs 23.6 lakh was allotted for the project in 2016-2017. However, they further revised the budget to Rs 3.83 crore as Mepma granted funds under the National urban livelihood mission (NULM). But, VMC has utterly failed in completing the projects.
 
 According to VMC officials, tenders were invited for construction of three homes - one each at near Raghavaiah Park at an estimated cost of Rs 72 lakh, Ramarajya Nagar at a cost of Rs 60 lakh and at the vehicle depot at a cost of Rs 40 lakh. "All the three were intended to be completed before the end of 2016. But unfortunately we could not complete them," said M V V Satyanarayana, in-charge of UCD.
 
 "Initially, the contractors were not willing to take up the works. Now, the works have started and they will be completed soon," said VMC commissioner G Veerapandian.
 
 Interestingly, the VMC allotted Rs 4.25 crore for shelter to the homeless poor in the latest budget. "At present, VMC holds Rs 3.83 crore allotted for night shelters and so far Rs 18 lakh has been spent on the existing three homes," Veerapandian said.
 
 Meanwhile, a few residents opined that it would be beneficial for the homeless if the VMC increases the bed strength at all the shelters. "All the three shelters have a bed capacity of 50. There are no separate enclosures for women. Besides, sanitation is in a poor condition," a resident of Ranigarithota Swapna said.
 
