KOLKATA: The police investigating the extortion and medical negligence complaints against   by deceased patient Sanjay Roy’s widow, Ruby Roy, are set to fix the responsibility of every key player. They will also seek legal advice if certain billing “lapses and contradictions” can be treated as fraud.

 But the cops are yet to find satisfactory answers to certain questions, given the contradictory statements from more than 20   doctors and non-medical employees; they are apparently yet to tie some loose ends even after questioning the hospital’s its top executives, former CEO and president (eastern India)  , current CEO Rana Dasgupta, CFO   and COO Joy Basu. “Contradictions cropped up as we compared the statements of Apollo employees,” said an officer. Calls and text messages to Apollo officials remained unanswered. Sources said from the 650-page documents submitted by Apollo, certain paragraphs were highlighted and questions were put across to the top management about certain processes. “We have to seek more clarity as the answers varied,” said the source. “The senior executives skipped several questions. Some clearly mentioned juniors handled day-to-day billing, but the juniors claimed they merely followed hospital guidelines. We want this discrepancy to be explained.”
 
 To analyse the billing process, the detective department team—comprising officers handling cheating, fraud and cyber crimes—accompanies the Phoolbagan cops to Apollo on Thursday. “The purpose was to find out who exactly generated the bills and sub-bills,” a source said. This was important for two specific reasons: one, the bills to Roy’s family showed a mismatch between the official rates for medical tests and the amount that the family was charged. Secondly, Rs 1.24 lakh could not be accounted for after comparing the bills furnished by Apollo to cops and the actual amount charged. Sources said besides checking the accounts, the team will find out if Apollo officials informed then CEO Basu about the incident and also check the call details of all those already questioned.
 
 The police reiterated they would contact some of the other Apollo hospitals in other parts to understand the management practices prevalent there. “Those recording their statements told us the daily operating details were shared with the top management. But the senior management denied being involved in daily affairs. The COO’s statement is thus crucial as he acts as a link between the juniors and the seniors,” said an officer.
 
 
