MUMBAI: The 13-year-old boy who consumed   after being   is in a serious condition as his liver has failed. He needs emergency liver transplant, said doctors.

 The extent of the tragedy perpetrated by   became clear after the boy was able to speak to his mother a couple of days ago. The Class VIII student narrated how he and his friend, a Class V student, were repeatedly sodomized between July 6 and 10 in their locality .Scared and disgusted, the two mixed Ratol rat poison in soft drink and drank it on July 12.Around midnight, he started vomiting and his father rushed him to hospital, where he is fighting for his life.
 
 The 10-year-old boy was also rushed to hospital by his family , but died the next day. His family did not even know that the boy had killed himself till his friend narrated their ordeal to his mother.
 
 The Powai police have registered a case and four teams are hunting for one Zahid. They have kept the option of exhuming the 10-year-old's body open to bolster the case. The police are ham-strung because there are no CCTVs in the boys' locality .But they are hopeful because the teen has claimed that there is an eyewitness. His father said the boy is now visiting his village at Uttar Pradesh.
 
 A senior doctor from a public hospital said the teen is under critical observation but not on ventilator. “We have registered his name with the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee for a liver. If we manage to get a cadaver donation in the next 24-48 hours, we will perform the transplant,“ said the doctor. The survivor's father told TOI that the teen told his mother on July 19 about the attacks and said he did not want to go to the new tuition class he had joined on July 6. “He said there were three to four guys who took him and his friend to a house in an isolated place in the locality and repeatedly sodomized them. The accused threatened to kill them and their parents if they squealed.“
 
 The police on Friday recorded the statements of the 10-year-old's parents. “How can I say what happened. We have lost our elder son. According to the doctor's report, he showed severe dehydration. So we have per formed the last rites. Police recorded our statement, but we do not have a complaint as of now.We have only now learnt that our son consumed poison when his friend who is in hospital revealed it,“ the boy's father said.
 
 The boys consumed Ratol on July 12 at around 5pm after mixing it with a cold drink. “At around midnight, we rushed him to a civic hospital after he started vomiting. On the way to hospital, my son only said, `Sorry papa, I have consumed poison'. He was disturbed for almost a week before he took the extreme step. Even my son's tutor asked why he was upset,“ the survivor's father told TOI.
 
