NAGPUR: When India played South Africa in the third Test in Nagpur two years ago, skipper   was asked whether local boy   has any chance of playing the game. Kohli just smiled and politely replied, "For us, team combination is important. We don't think about stuff like whether local boys should play at their home ground. If somebody fits into the combination, he will play."

 In 80 years of its existence as a state cricket association, Vidarbha has only produced three international cricketers - Prashant Vaidya, Umesh Yadav and  . Only Umesh went on to become a regular in the Indian side for any length of time. However, he is yet to play an international game at his home ground in Nagpur. He completed 100 ODI wickets in Bengaluru. The 'Vidarbha Express' played 13 successive Tests last season and his role was crucial in India's thumping victories against New Zealand, England and Australia.
 
 Naturally, Yadav was asked whether he prefers Tests over One-dayers. "For me, One-dayers keep happening. I really like playing Test cricket. In Tests, you have time, various situations. I like those challenges. I like bowling on different pitches. I want to take wickets on various surfaces. When you take wickets, your confidence increases and you become accurate. You understand how to bowl on different wickets. I'm more than happy to play Test cricket. In One-dayers, you have less time. If you play both formats, it's good for you. If I play both formats, I know it will be good for me. At this age, the more I play, the better it's for me. I do not want to regret not playing one format or the other later on," he said.
 
 So far, this 29-year-old pacer has managed the workload quite well. "If you continuously play Test cricket, it's a lot of load for a fast bowler. Playing in subcontinent conditions is very tough. Slow wicket, no pace and bounce for fast bowlers, you have to give your 100 per cent. It's very hard for the fast bowlers to come to One-day cricket with the same intensity. It's better to get some rest. It also helps you recover from niggles. It's a good concept as we get proper rest and look after ourselves properly," Yadav said.
 
 Since the 2015 World Cup, Yadav has done well in both formats. He was the highest wicket-taker for India in the World Cup before he became an integral part of the Indian Test XI. So, how does he take a call on different formats?
 
 "It depends. If you have a lot of Tests scheduled throughout the year, then you'll have to take a call. But you can't say I want to play only Tests, because if you don't have many Tests scheduled in a year you don't require that much rest. The body also needs match practice to get better. Bowling in a match is a lot different to bowling in the nets," he said.
 
 Yadav was rested for the Sri Lanka One-day series. On his return, he picked up wickets in Bangalore but went for runs too. "I know, we gave 15-20 extra runs, which we should have controlled. Still, Shami and I just played our first game after a long time. However, we are senior bowlers and have to take the responsibility. We are not thinking too much about the loss," he said.
 
