THANE: The city has been facing   temperatures since the last few days. While residents from the lake city received some respite from the soaring temperatures, this was shortlived as the mercury levels have suddenly shot up. Experts from the   department have claimed that the   will continue to fluctuate for another two to three weeks.

 While the temperature have been fluctuating between 19 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 31 degrees Celsius, the mercury levels shot up to 36.5 degrees Celsius on Monday.
 
 “The constant change in weather has started affecting people’s health. From a very hot day to a very   one, the climate has been inconsistent for weeks. I have suffered from viral infections at least three times since December and I feel it is because of the constant change in weather,” said Arundathi Sethi (23), a resident of Vishnu Nagar area.
 
 Another Thane resident Namita Singh also bore the brunt of the weather change. 
 
 ‘‘I had stepped out of my house at 2pm for some work. After I returned, I started feeling uneasy and feverish. I then started throwing up and feeling very dizzy. After a visit to the doctor, he told me that I had suffered a   stroke. Even though we are just in the initial days of February, where the climate is normally quite pleasant, the weather has been changing every second day,’’ said Singh.
 
 Meanwhile, experts from the Meteorological department have blamed the changing wind directions to the fluctuating temperatures. They also said that this will continue for a couple of weeks.
 
 Chief meteorologist Mahesh Palawat at skymetweather said, “The changes in temperature is based on the direction of the wind, which, in turn, is dependent on the climatic conditions like the recent disturbances over the western and north western zones.”
 
 “When the north easterly winds from areas, including Jammu and Kashmir, reach Maharashtra and Konkan belt, the temperature drops. However, when the easterly winds from the south move upwards the mercury levels shoot up. These hot, humid and cold waves will continue for the next few weeks, untill mid-summer when it will rise and stay constant,” Palawat added. 
 
 “Due to the re-entry of the south easterly winds in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region currently, the temperature will remain high for the next few days, and may even go up to around 38 degrees Celsius,” he added.
 
 
