BENGALURU: Severing his 46 year-old ties with the Congress, former Union minister   said on Sunday he was quitting the party because those holding the reins today have “badly bruised my self-respect and honour“. Without naming those at the helm, Krishna told reporters, “Age is only a number, and it should not be a factor in deciding the future. A per son's mental faculties can dull at the age of 46 or remain active at 84. The Congress today does not want time-tested leaders, but (needs) only managers to run the affairs of the party. A party which does not regard seniority has no future.“

 Brushing aside efforts by state Congress leaders to reconsider his decision, Krishna said he even received a call from New Delhi. Citing his unceremonious exit from the Union cabinet in 2012 as one reason for his decision, he said: “The Congress needs to learn the art of letting leaders exit gracefully.“ Krishna said the decision to par t ways with the Cong ress was taken in 24 hours after consulting his wife Prema, who was present at the news conference, though disillusionment towards the party set in after he was dropped from the Union cabinet.
 
 Asked if he would retire from active politics, Krishna paraphrased the famous quote of American ar my man Gen   that a soldier never retires: “Retirement, as a word, is not in my dictionary. A politician never retires, he only fades away.“
 
 Asked whether he was unhappy with the way   is running the show, Krishna took a jibe at him: “When we look at a party, we look towards the party president, and not the vice-president or secretaries. I don't wish to comment on him.“
 
 He expressed gratitude towards the Gandhi family -Indira Gandhi,   and   -for their support and respect for him. Krishna said he did not want to know whether other senior leaders met the same fate, but admitted managers were ruling the roost.
 
 Krishna said the party has risked its credibility. “Due to its history, I'm certain the Congress will survive, but whether credibility will remain with the par ty is a question which needs to be answered,“ he said.
 
 The veteran said he was not yet in a position to speak about his next move.“I have resigned from politics and will introspect before spelling out my next move,“ he added.
 
 Krishna did not rule out floating a regional party or supporting an outfit. “Time will tell us,“ he said. Asked whether he planned to revive the Praja   in Karnataka, he said: “I would have done if I was 20 years younger.“
 
 
