GURUGRAM: The death of a youth from Uttarakhand at a guesthouse in Gurugram has once again brought focus on the illegal guest houses and paying guest facilities in the city. There are more than 300 illegal guest houses and paying guest accommodations are running in different sectors of   (HUDA) without any permission. Most of these illegal accommodation facilities are running in posh localities of Gurugram.

 Residents have been highlighting the issues related to illegal guest houses and PGs demanding action against such facilities but till date no substantive action has been taken by the authorities, and illegal guest houses and PG are functioning right under the nose of administration without any fear of law.
 
 Huda in reply to two different RTI queries filed by SK Sharma and Aseem Takyar urban development authority in the beginning of the year has conducted the survey of the city and identified around 200 illegal guest houses and PG under estate officer-II while another 100 such facilities were found under the jurisdiction of estate officer-I.
 
 SK Sharma, who had got details through RTI, said such facilities are causing revenue loss to exchequer as all these facilities are operating from residential property without paying commercial charges. “Such accommodations are also creates nuisance in the residential areas and it is also comprises with the safety and security of the society as most of the guest are giving accommodation without proper papers and verifications,” said Sharma.
 
 Elaborating about the revenue loss to state due to such facilities, he said PG and guest houses are operating from residential areas. “They have neither commercial electricity connection and they are not paying any tax,” said Sharma adding that such accommodations not only violate the Huda norms, but also pay for electricity and drinking water at residential rates, which is much less than the commercial one.
 
 Pramod Mishra, resident of sector 17, said such illegal accommodations creates unnecessary inconvenience to residents and but additional burden on civic amenities. “All the amenities road, parking sewerage, drainage, power and water supply was designed as per the residential uses, illegal guest houses and PGs in residential areas create additional burden on civic amenities,” said Mishra adding that there is no proper records of such accommodations and people living in it, this could lead to serious law and order situation.
 
 As per the 2012 policy of Department of town and country planning, a HUDA sector can have maximum 5000 sq yard area earmarked for setting up guest houses. The minimum size of the plot is 1000 sq yard and necessary permissions must be taken from the department.
 
 “As per the rule such facility cannot be on plot less than 1000 square yard with necessary permission and license from the government. In Huda sectors plots are 150-500 square yard size, so any guest house and PG on such plots are illegal. Besides they are operating commercial activities on residential property without any approval,” said estate officer Sanjeev Singhla that there is no policy to regularise such facilities.
 
 He said authority is also concern about such facilities and they have recently issues notices to some of these facilities. “We are issuing notices to such facilities and asking them to give affidavit,” said Singhla.
 
