MEERUT: In a daring act, three   men shot dead a BJP leader,   Balmiki, in Muzaffarnagar on Wednesday morning. The leader who runs a cold drinks agency was shot in the head and he died on the spot. Following the murder, a large number of supporters belonging to the Balmiki sect protested and blocked the highway demanding immediate arrest of the killers.   was the head of BJP unit in Jansath region of Muzaffarnagar and was an active RSS worker. He was sitting in his office when the assailants barged in and fired at him from a close range.
 
  Within hours of the murder, police detained the chairman of Khatauli Nagar Palika, Paras Jain, who was among five named people in the FIR that was lodged by the slain leader’s brother Pratap Rana. “I am sure that this is the handiwork of my neighbour Raju Balmiki and Paras Jain, who nurtured enmity with my father and brother (who was killed). Raju Balmiki has a criminal past and is currently lodged in jail. Case under National Security Act (NSA) was also slapped against him for his anti-social activities. He always held my brother Raj Kumar Balmiki responsible for his imprisonment. Similarly,   had a political rivalry with my father and frequent tiffs used to take place between the two,” said Rana.
  
  Soon after the murder, Jain, who himself is a BJP leader, visited the crime spot but the supporters of the slain leader thrashed him and his security guards. Police, however, rescued him from the angry crowd and took him into custody.
  
  The protest soon turned into a caste battle as hundreds of Balmikis stormed the Mahavir Mahotsav event, which was going on in Khatauli, and ransacked the entire place. By that time, Rana had already filed a police complaint, on the basis of which Jain was detained by police.
  
  According to KP Singh, station incharge of Khatauli police station, “We have detained Paras Jain and have launched an investigation into the matter. The body of the deceased has been sent for postmortem. We have filed an FIR against five persons under section 302 and 120B of IPC.”
