VISAKHAPATNAM: A post related to Indian Railways’ Vikalp Scheme has gone viral among  . 

 The post said wait-listed passengers can travel in any other alternative train in the same route if their ticket is not confirmed. Railway officials told TOI on Monday that the city-based Waltair division of   (ECoR) has not yet received any information from the   about the Vikalp scheme, which was announced in 2015.
 
 “I got a message on WhatsApp saying that from now on, there will be no wait-list for trains any more as a new feature has arrived. When I shared it with other groups some said it was untrue,” said Y Sunitha, a Hindi teacher and resident of China Gadili. 
 
 Indian Railway officials should clarify about such posts, she said. 
 
 Sources said the scheme would be first introduced in metro cities like Chennai and New Delhi. It has already been partially implemented in Mumbai.   are hoping that the scheme will be rolled out in   in April when passenger rush is high due to the summer vacations.
 
 Speaking to TOI, G Sunil Kumar, senior divisional commercial manager, Waltair division, said the scheme was launched with a prime objective of helping the wait-listed passengers by allowing them to travel in other alternative trains on the same routes.
 
 “We have not received any official communication about the launching of the scheme in our jurisdiction as on date. We have no idea about when it will be rolled out in Visakhapatnam,” Sunil Kumar said.
 
 The sources said the railways launched the scheme to recover its financial losses which is estimated to be around Rs 40,000 crore. The railways are losing nearly Rs 25 crore to Rs 30 crore a day from wait-listed passengers. With the launch of the scheme, the railways are hoping to recover at least Rs 20 crore a day.
 
 Railway officials said the wait-listed passengers will have to book the train tickets through the Vikalp option in the online reservation system. They have to choose their trains also during the booking. The facility is presently applicable to the same class ticket and will get updated once it is rolled out across the country. If a passenger does not like the alternative train, he can cancel the ticket but it would be treated as cancellation of a fully confirmed ticket.
 
 The system is available for online ticketing now. It will soon be available over-the-counter. A special software is also being readied for that purpose. 
 
 
