Patiala: District police have recovered 1,005 bottles of illegal   in a day and booked a number of accused under nine separate cases that are registered at various police stations.

 A car driver Thandu Ram of Rusulpur Saida has been booked by police for allegedly smuggling liquor brought from Haryana. The case has been registered at Sadar Patiala on complaint of the investigation officer. The car was found lying abandoned on the outskirts of Chora village. On checking, police found 20 boxes of liquor bottles in it. The case under Section 61/1/14 of Excise Act was registered against the accused who is absconding.
 
 Similarly, the Sadar Samana police registered a case against accused Balwinder Singh of Cheetanwala village after 28 liquor boxes were found in his car while checking at a police barrier. Police said its team under sub-inspector Gurbachan Singh had put police barrier near bus stand of Badanpur village. They asked the accused to stop on suspicion. When frisked, the police claimed to have found heavy liquor in the car following which the accused was arrested under sections of Excise Act.
 
 The civil lines Patiala police arrested Istiakh Ali Saqidi of the local city centre along with the materials meant for pouring whisky into bottles. Following a tip-off, police raided the house of the accused and siezed six bottles of whisky along with 2188 labels of different companies of wine and a whisky flavour. Police had registered a case against the accused under sections of excise act.
 
 Similarly, the Rajpura police have arrested Jagtar Singh of Alampur village and recovered around 15 bottles of liquor that he allegedly brought from Chandigarh. Police claimed the accused was caught on a tip-off by sub-inspector Surjit Singh and other cops who frisked the accused near Samadu Maur Rajpura.
 
 Sukhdev Singh of Lakkadmandi was arrested by teap of cops under head constable Gurmeet Singh near Sanauri Adda during police patrolling. The team frisked the accused and recovered 36 bottles of country-made liquor from his possession. The liquor were with labels of local Haryana brand. Police recovered the liquor bottles and arrested him under sections of Excise act.
 
 Similarly, the Pasiana police arrested accused Bittu Singh of Tareh village and recovered 120 bottles of country-made liquor from him. Police claimed to have arrested him on a tip-off during police patrolling near Bathoi Kalan village.
 
 Ghagga police arrested Kulvir Singh and Baldev Singh, both residents of Kakrala village, along with 24 bottles of country-made liquor having labelled of local Haryana brand. Both the accused were arrested along with 12 bottles each during police patrolling near Kakrala village and a case under excise act was registered against them.
 
 Akram Khan and Janak Raj, both living in Sanaur, were booked by Sanaur police under sections of Excise Act after police recovered nine boxes of country-made liquor from them. The accused were transporting these liquor boxes on a cycle-rickshaw. 
 
 Police booked another accused Vicky and recovered 10 liquor boxes from him. However, police said the accused managed to escape.
 
 Box
 
 Nine cases registered
 
 20 boxes of liquor bottles found from outskirts of Chora village
 
 28 liquor boxes siezed from Badanpur village
 
 6 bottles of whisky and 2188 labels of different companies of wine recovered from local city centre
 
 15 bottles of illegal liqour seized from an accused near Samadu Maur, Rajpura
 
 36 bottles of country-made liqour bottles found in possession of an accused near Sanauri Adda
 
 120 bottles of liquor siezed from Bathoi Kalan village
 
 24 bottles were recovered from two accused near Kakrala village 
 
 9 liquor boxes were siezed from two accused in Sanaur
 
 10 boxes of country-made liquor were found in the possession of an accused who later managed to escape
 
 
