Budget carrier   is offering air tickets for as cheap as Rs 12. The base fare of Rs 12 does not include taxes and other surcharges. The offer is valid for both domestic and international travel and is part of SpiceJet’s 12th anniversary celebrations.

 The sale kicked off on Tuesday, May 23 and will go on till May 28, 2017. It is valid for travel between June 26, 2017 and March 24, 2018.
 “These offers reiterate the airlines endeavour towards making affordable flying a more fulfilling experience for every Indian,” SpiceJet said in a statement on Tuesday.
 
 The company said there are limited seats under the offer and tickets will be available on a first come first served basis.
 
 Customers availing the anniversary sale offer would also be eligible for a lucky draw offer contest. Prizes for winners of the contest include free international flight ticket, free domestic flight ticket, and hotel voucher worth Rs 10,000 among others.
 
 Tickets under the offer are refundable (only statutory taxes refundable), though changeable with a change fee and fare difference, the company said.
 
 SpiceJet operates 358 average daily flights to 46 destinations, including 39 domestic and seven international ones. The airline connects its network with a fleet of 33 Boeing 737NG and 17 Bombardier Q-400s.
 
 The Indian skies have been locked in a pitched fare battle for the last couple of years as airlines try to woo customers with discounted fares on a regular basis. Analysts believe the stiff competition among airlines amid robust growth in the number of passengers is leading to lower fares. Domestic air passenger traffic rose 15.15 per cent to 91.34 lakh in April, according to data from aviation regulator DGCA (Directorate General of Civil Aviation).
 
 Under the   or Goods and Services Tax regime that is due to roll out from July 1, economy class air travel is set to become cheaper. The tax slab for economy air travel has been fixed at 5 per cent against the existing 6 per cent. However, business class tickets are expected to become more expensive it's been put under the tax bracket of 12 per cent compared to the existing nine per cent.
 
 
 
 
