NEW DELHI: Even as China says it has 570 orders for its homemade jet which made its maiden flight today, its state media is downplaying, by a great extent, expectations of its success.

 "China-made   no challenge to  ,   dominance", is the headline to an article published by China's official news agency Xinhua.
 
 The C919, which is what China calls the passenger jet, landed successfully in Shanghai after an 80-minute maiden flight earlier today. The jet is a single-aisled, two-engine plane with 158 seats. The C919's manufacturer,   ( ), says 23 foreign and domestic customers have placed orders for as many as 570 aircraft.
 
 "But this is only the very first step. Even in China's domestic market, COMAC has a long way to go to turn technical success into business success...Shaking the dominance of aviation giants Boeing and Airbus in the near future is unrealistic, observers say," the Xinhua article said.
 And while the C919 is ready for make its maiden flight, "it may take much longer for the newcomer to take off in the aviation market," the Xinhua article added.
 
 An article in China Daily, another news outlet from the state-run stable, is slightly, but only slightly, more positive about the C919. 
 
 It quotes an analyst as first saying that C919 "could have the opportunity to break the monopolies of Boeing and Airbus", which have a duopoly in the global market. Then it mentions the caveat.
 
 "Despite the promising future" the article quotes Lin Zhijie, an aviation industry analyst a saying "the C919's entry to the market won't occur soon. The date it goes into operation is expected to be between 2020 and 2022."
 
 Boeing last year said China is expected to become the world's top aviation market in 20 years, with a projected demand for 6,810 new aircraft over that time. And 75 percent of that demand is for single aisle planes like the 'Made in China' C919. That is, China will need 5,110 single aisle planes - like the C919 - through 2035.
 
 The C919 is in the same category of the updated Airbus 320 and Boeing's new generation 737.
 
 Xinhua's article went as far as to say that the maker of the C919 - despite touting the 'Made in China' aspect of the jet - should seek help. 
 
 "Boeing and Airbus are very mature aircraft manufacturers, and COMAC should seek further cooperation with them to learn from their experiences, according to aviation analysts," Xinhua wrote.
 
 
