LUCKNOW: Taking note of slow pace of   from farmers,   directed   to expedite the process and ensure relief to the peasants. Chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi had announced the target of wheat procurement had been increased to 80 lakh metric tonnes from 50 lakh MT last year. Yogi had also warned he would make sudden inspections to inspect wheat purchase by state agencies under the   (minimum support price) from   .

 But it seems food and civil supplies department, which is the only official agency of the state procuring wheat directly from farmers, has not paid attention to Yogi’s warnings as there are many places where even marketing centres have not opened leaving the farmers in a lurch.
 
 Office of chief secretary Rahul Bhatnagar had taken serious note and asked food and civil supplies department to review its work but over a week has passed and the department has not followed the directions, an officer in the food and civil supplies department told the ToI on condition of anonymity.
 
 The state government had set a target of 80 lakh metric tones purchase of wheat by June-end but official records reveal that so far only 14.56 lakh metric tones has been purchased which is hardly 18%. In fact, April-May is the period when purchases peak and farmers are desperate to sell their produce. Towards June, farmers don’t turn up because by that time majority of them have already sold it to private players.
 
 “A farmer cannot wait for too long to sell the produce as he needs cash for household needs and to prepare for paddy, the monsoon crop,” said an officer of the agriculture department. Sources said, food and civil supplies department had claimed more than 5,000 purchase centres would be opened but even this target has not been met by the department as a result of which a good number of farmers are compelled to dispose of their produce to traders and private millers who give them very low price compared to the MSP (minimum support price). 
 
 In the previous SP government too, purchase of farm produce was ridden with irregularities and high handedness of the government officials. Former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav had once inspected government purchase centres and to check the weighing machine, he stood on it and found it showing him only 35kg, confirming his doubt that the centres were duping farmers.
 
 
