SHIMLA: Some 167 years after the British first introduced   of the Himalayas of Himachal Pradesh, the state is gearing up to grow another aromatic brew – coffee.   there is backing a proposal to start commercial cultivation of coffee in the districts of Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Una, Kangra, Solan and Sirmaur. At present the state produces only around five to seven quintals of coffee annually and that too because of enterprising farmers without government assistance.

 Coffee Board member Dr Vikram Sharma says that the topography of lower Himachal resembles Chikmagalur in Karnataka which is in the foothills of the Mullayanagiri range. He said for Himachal Pradesh coffee varieties like Chandragiri and Selection-9 are best suited. A resident of Bilaspu, Sharma is credited with bringing coffee to Himachal Pradesh way back in 1999 after he visited Chikmagalur.
 
  "I had grown coffee in my wasteland in 2002," he adds. "If coffee could be grown in wasteland, why not in the rest of lower Himachal areas as well? A proposal has been submitted to the   to provide seeds to farmers," he added. 
 
 He said Chandragiri variety is best suitable for Himachal Pradesh due to the reason that hill state has temperature variation. "Chandragiri is temperature tolerant and it would have enhanced flavor due to this variation in temperature compared to rest of India where coffee is grown," he said.
 
 He said Coffee Board had already conducted a survey of Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Una and Kangra districts and had found the  . In Dramman area of Kangra district a teacher is having flourishing coffee cultivation, he added.
 
 He said apple crop is the main commercial crop in upper Himachal Pradesh and coffee has the potential to become  .
 
 Dr Vikram Sharma said that in the selected areas, farmers would not only be provided the coffee seeds but would also be provided training about the proper technique of coffee cultivation and processing. He said due to its enhanced flavor coffee grown in Himachal Pradesh would also have great demand in the market. He said past trials have already been successful and now there is need to have its commercial cultivation for which Union Ministry of Commerce and Industries is already making the efforts.
 
 From one plant, height varying from 6 feet to 8 feet, around 2 to 2.5 kgs of coffee could be extracted. And from one bigha of land (around 1000 square feet) minimum income of Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000 could be generated. Best past is that in the same area where coffee is grown one can have another plantation be it mango, avocado are Australian Teak through inter cropping.
 
