HYDERABAD: Refusing to get carried away with the version of APSRTC officials who had terminated a conductor from service 24 years ago for negligible lapses,   has held that his dismissal from service was illegal. The bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice Shameem Akther brushed aside the charges levelled against the conductor and said that RTC management has failed to make out a case for an appeal in this case. 

 The case pertains to M L Ali who joined the RTC in 1976 as a conductor and was in service till October 27, 1993. On this day, an RTC enforcement squad inspected his bus and found that he collected only 50 paise from one passenger when the actual fare is 75 paise. The second charge was that there were two women passengers in the bus without tickets at the time of inspection. RTC officials conducted an enquiry, found him guilty and terminated him from service. 
 
 The conductor invoked the provisions of the industrial disputes Act and approached the relevant tribunal challenging the termination order. 
 
 According to his counsel S A K  , the tribunal, in 1998, directed the RTC to take him back into service with all the back wages and continuity in service. The RTC preferred an appeal against this order in the high court. A single judge in 2008 dismissed the RTC plea and found fault with the manner in which its officials conducted the enquiry. The RTC management filed a writ appeal against the single judge order. The appeal was heard by a bench headed by acting CJ which too found fault with the management for ignoring the conductor's explanation for the alleged lapses and also the deposition given by the driver of the same bus confirming the version of the conductor. The two women without tickets had boarded the bus a few minutes before the conductor could reach them and before the next stage arrived, the squad arrived. Even in respect of the passenger who had given only 50 paise, the conductor was in the process of questioning him. The HC bench refused to interfere in the orders of the tribunal and the single judge and upheld both of them.
 
 The conductor's family went through a lot of trauma, suffered a lot, Moinuddin said.
 
