PATNA: Decks have been cleared for the expansion of terminal building at the city’s   as the district administration has transferred 11.5 acres of land of state hangar,   depot and   to   (AAI).

 The transferred land will be used for expansion of the airport and construction of a new terminal building with a capacity to accommodate 30 lakh passengers per annum.
 
 Patna DM   informed that mutation of the 11.5 acres of land near the airport was done in favour of AAI on Thursday. “As per the agreement between the Centre and the state government, we have transferred 11.5 acres of land of state hangar, IOC depot and Bihar Flying Club to the AAI which can now initiate the work for expansion of the airport terminal building. We have also asked the AAI to soon hand over equivalent land to us as per the agreement made for this transfer,” Agarwal told TOI on Saturday.
 
 Earlier, the Union cabinet on January 24 had given its nod for transfer of 11.35 acres of land to the state government by way of exchanging equivalent land of AAI at Anisabad.
 
 According to Patna airport director R S Lahauria, formalities related to physical transfer of land will be completed on February 28. “Now that the district administration has completed the formalities for mutation of land, we have decided to hand them over the equivalent land at Anisabad and take possession of the equivalent land in and around the state hangar on February 28,” said Lahauria.
 
 As per the proposed plans, the first block of the new building will be developed over the existing location of the state hangar. First, the state hangar will be shifted next to Bihar Flying Club and three hangars developed — two for the state government and one for the flying club. After development of the new hangars, the existing state hangar will be demolished. Thereafter, the AAI will develop the first section of the new terminal building on that location.
 
 Once the first section of the new terminal building is ready, passenger operations will be shifted to it and the existing terminal building completely demolished. Finally, the AAI will commence construction of the remaining portions of the new terminal building.
 
 Sources claimed that the AAI has already started the bidding process for selection of project management consultant for preparation of the detailed design and drawings for the extended terminal building. The actual construction works is targeted to begin from July. 
 
