KOLKATA: App-based cab service provider  ,   to set up kiosks that will facilitate assisted booking of taxis. It is even contemplating a set-up with in-built   to discourage driving after consuming alcohol.

 Following the accident in which model Sonika Singh Chauhan died after a night of pub hopping, the Kolkata Police top brass had met officials of leading nightclubs and pubs, suggesting they share the responsibility of curbing drunk driving by persuading patrons to take a breathalyzer test to check if they were fit to drive and arrange app rides for those who were not in a position to do so.
 
 Uber Kolkata general manager Pradeep Parameswaran told TOI the company has been discussing the Bars Against Drunk Driving (BADD) programme with Kolkata Police for the past couple of months and the Sonika Chauhan-Vikram Chatterjee accident had only given it additional momentum.
 
 “Drunk driving is a problem that Kolkata Police has been trying to weed out. The issue got highlighted due to the involvement of celebrities in a recent case. We hope managers at night clubs and pubs will guide patrons to the kiosk and book a cab as it may be inconvenient for the guest to use the phone to make the booking at the time,“ explained Parameswaran.
 
 Uber promotes BADD in cities like Delhi and Gurgaon where partner bars offer a 20% discount on UberX rides through promo codes. It has also tried out the Uber stations or kiosks in a few bars in Chandigarh and at Phoenix Mall in Mumbai.
 
 In Toronto, Canada, the company has Uber Safe kiosks with built-in breathalyzer that allows people to know if they have had a drink too many to drive. Given the fun element in blowing into a pipe jutting out of a machine, it is likely to be more acceptable than a request from a restaurant manager to take a conventional breathalyser test.
 
 Uber may resort to a mix of incentives and surge pricing to ensure there are enough app cabs available in the vicinity of night clubs and pubs, particularly after midnight. The company is yet to finalise the payment mode.
 
