RANCHI: President   chose to speak from his heart instead of reading out any drafted message while laying the foundation stone for   and   here on Sunday. Despite speaking in fluent Hindi, without any error or fumble, Mukherjee excused himself and said, “I don’t know Hindi properly but I still chose to speak the language because I feel Jharkhand is also my home and a person is free to speak out straight from the heart while being at home.”

 Mukherjee was emotional while laying the foundation for Rabindra Bhavan and expressed his gratitude to Chief Minister   for keeping his words. “I would like to thank the chief minister especially for keeping his promise he made during my visit here last year,” he said.
 
 Mukherjee, who has been associated with Nikhil Bongo Sammelan for years and chaired meetings even while holding office, said that earlier, Jharkhand, as undivided Bihar, was part of Bengal Presidency along with Bengal and Odisha. “It is in 1935 that these states separated from Bengal Presidency. However, in day-to-day life practices and composite culture, they continue to remain the same,” he said. 
 
 Mukherjee also shared his experience of being chosen the head of organising committee during the celebration of the 150th birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore in 2011. “The idea of having a Rabindra Bhavan in every state capital is still old. This resolution was taken during the birth centenary celebration in 1961 and I am happy that today, the foundation was laid in the Jharkhand capital,” Mukherjee said.
 
 He also expressed happiness over the state government’s decision to provide Haj House to the Muslims. “Today, the number of people going for Haj pilgrim from India is one of the highest in the world, even more than that of Pakistan and Bangladesh, which makes us more responsible for ensuring facilities for our Muslim brothers and sisters,” he said.
 
 Mukherjee was welcomed by governor Droupadi Murmu and CM Das along with MPs, ministers and a fleet of officials from the department of urban development under which both the buildings are being constructed. 
 
 The President flew to Deoghar from   soon after laying the foundation of both the buildings. In the temple town, he launched the Centre’s ambitious Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Kendra (PMKK), a national skill development project meant for 13 states. 
 
 The Union ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship will set up the PMKKs across the country as part of the Make In India mission. Union minister of state (independent charge) for skill development and entrepreneurship Rajiv Pratap Rudy, said, “This skill development initiative has already given employment and financial power to many across the country and Jharkhand. I met a girl from Deoghar who is now a trained beautician, she earns more than Rs 50,000 every month.”
 
