Visakhapatnam: Works on the three-level flyover at NAD Junction has gained momentum with the Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda) inviting tenders for the much-hyped project.

 The flyover project was proposed in 2015 as a long-term measure to ease the ever-growing traffic at this busy junction. The three-level grade separator will consist of a six-lane vehicle underpass and two elevated flyovers at two different levels, including a three-lane flyover in the first level and a four-lane flyover in the second level.
 
 The bids were solicited under EPC (engineering, procurement and construction) mode.
 
 It was all fine till 2007-2008 when the junction, which is an intersection of NH-16 and arterial roads to Pendurthi, Simhachalam and Araku, became a bottleneck due to increased vehicular traffic. A flyover at NAD Junction has been the long-pending demand of commuters since the junction leads to many important areas including the city airport.
 
 With the traffic coming to a standstill on a daily basis, particularly during peak hours, it takes many green signals for motorists to cross the stretch. It is estimated that the Passenger Car Units (PCU) at the junction has almost reached 10,000.
 
 Dr V Chandraiah, Vuda chief engineer, said that they will hold a pre-bid meeting on July 21. “Submission of bids will close on August 21. We have invited the bids under EPC mode,” he said. The successful bidder has to complete the project within two years. The bidder shall also develop service roads on all four sides of the intersection, approach roads/ramps, drainage disposal system, pedestrian walk-ways, utility ducts, footpaths, bus stops, landscaping, and so on.
 
 Vuda had invited tenders to appoint a consultant for preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for the proposed flyover in December 2015. Subsequently, a Chennai-based consultant had been picked and the DPR has been readied. 
 
 The consultant had prepared two concept plans for the flyover in May 2016 following which Vuda sought public opinion in June before approaching CM N Chandrababu Naidu with the designs. Later, another design was considered and suggestions invited from different stakeholders.
 
 However, the bidders can now come up with alternative designs to suit the site and fulfil the technical requirements. Vuda officials said that the grade separator shall be designed in such a way that there are no traffic jams at the junction and vehicles can move fast during emergencies. Proper arrangements will be made for drainage for flood water.
 
 
