NAGPUR: It was a memorable day of sorts for city’s amateur singers and for those who felt they could carry a tune.  , a contest based on Mohammed Rafi songs was organized by Mohd. Rafi Fans Cultural Organization on Saturday as part of a three-day programme to commemorate the 37th death anniversary of the  . There was no age limit but only three prizes in each category of children, youth and elders.

 The venue of the cultural programme was Neelkamal auditorium of SCZCC. The atmosphere around the auditorium was buzzing with amateur singers, who sought out their own corners outside the campus and putting on headphones, sat listening to Rafi songs on their phones and kept rehearsing along with the music. Inside the audit hall, an orchestra comprising of three musicians was on stage.
 
 A two member panel of judges   and Rajesh Burbure heard 58 contestants to pick three winners, Shreya Mende in the children’s group, Mangesh Deshpande in youth category and Prakash Khot among the elders. 
 
 “The trophies will be presented to them by Roop Kumar Rathore on July 31,” said Salim Sheikh, founder president of the organization. 
 
 The event began early in the morning at 9am and ended at around 4pm.
 
 The contest which was held once before in 2012 saw a marked improvement this year in the quality of performers, informed Sheikh. Some of the more popular Rafi numbers like ‘ye reshmi zulfain’, ‘tune mujhe dekha’, ‘yaha ke hum hain Raajkumar’ were belted out by contestants.
 
 Music teacher   described the singers as ‘just fans of Rafi and not proper singers’. “They are singing from their heart but a little practice could have helped, ”Ahmed said.
 
 Making an effort to be different was Anil Lohare, an employee of   who presented a Marathi bhavgeet. “Rafi sang various genres in so many languages. I selected the bhavgeet to emphasis this,” he said. 
 
 But homemaker Rajani Yangantiwar chose the lilting ‘pukarta chala huoon main’ as it had been her father’s favourite too. Taking the stage after 40 years to sing ‘Aye merey shahe kubha’ was Prakash Deshmukh, a 69 year old retired employee of MSEB. “I am happy that there are so many young singers who are taking part.” 
 
 The youngest participant was five year old Savi Telang who had the audience applauding as she sang ‘jaane kaha mera jigar gaya ji’. 
 
 Vividh Bharati announcer Kamal Sharma, who too was present at the event said how Rafi’s voice did not require any support of technology or instrument. “He sang all the genres with equal ease and for so many actors. Rafi’s sad and devotional songs are like a catharsis,” he added. 
 
 Making a note of the slew of Rafi programmes in the city, hematologist Dr.   said, “It shows that the rich legacy of the singer is still alive even after three decades of his passing away. ”
 
