Youngsters sweeping the roads, picking up plastic and separating degradable and non-degradable waste has become a common sight in the city, today. Come weekends, and one can easily spot a bunch of youngsters cleaning a stretch of the road along with their friends. Armed with cleaning equipment, gloves and masks these youngsters are brimming with energy and enthusiasm as they team up with their friends to make their city a cleaner place to live in.
On Sunday, hundreds of youngsters were spotted at the   Periyakulam near Sundakkamuthur cleaning the   and its surroundings. They not only spruced up the locality, but also cleared the canals that helped fill up the lakes. R Manikandan, who spearheaded the drive, on Sunday, tells us, “After the Jallikkattu protests, many youngsters in the city believe that if they want to see a change, they need to act and not just wait for the government to take the initiative. We have been working at the Perur Puliaykualm for the last ten days and have collected more than 1,000 kg of plastic waste till date. We have also cleared the canals. Coimbatore is facing a severe water crisis and the ground water level is decreasing every day. It’s high time we saved our water bodies. Hence, we began our cleanliness campaign from the lake.”
 
 Today, social media plays a crucial role in bringing youngsters together for a cause. “Youngsters reached out to their ilk through social media and the massive crowd that thronged at the VOC Grounds is testimony that. We followed a similar pattern and reached out to others through WhatsApp and Facebook. Last weekend, we even had few youngsters from Chennai, who had come visiting their parents in Coimbatore, taking part in the drive. We posted few pictures on social media and soon, many Tamilians living abroad volunteered to help us financially.”
 
 Agreeing with Manikandan is student Isha Arora, who recently took part in a cleanliness marathon organized by her college. “This was the first time that I took part in an initiative of this kind and it was a unique experience. We not only cleaned the stretch from Hopes Junction to Chinniyampalayam, but also used the opportunity to interact with many others from our college. We even did a live video of the event. Some of us were touching the brooms for the first time in our lives and we were quite excited about it.”
 
 Dolly Acharya, yet another student, who took part in a cleanliness drive, tells us, “When I told my parents that I was taking part in an initiative like this, their first reaction was, ‘clean the house first and then the road’. But, they were quite happy as I was giving back to the society in my own way. We worked without any hesitation and were able to collect many kg of plastic and other waste.”
 
 Manoj Krishnakumar, organizer of a cleanliness drive held in the city recently, called Tsunami Sweep, in which the participants cleaned a huge stretch from Gandhi Park to Anaikatti, says that organizing such initiatives is a huge challenge. “When you are planning  , the first thing one need to think about is the disposal of waste. We collected tonnes of garbage and handed it over to the city Corporation. Secondly, the organizer cannot be present everywhere as the participants are spread out in different localities. During Tsunami Sweep, we divided the stretch into 54 zones, analyzed the quantum of waste and allocated participants accordingly. It’s quite a challenging task, especially when you are dealing a huge number of participants.”
 
 But, when the youngsters come together, the energy level shoots up. “We do a lot of homework before getting into an activity so that every youngster is equally involved in it. And once we begin our work, there’s no looking back. After Periyakulam, we are planning to clean the other lakes in the city. It’s time to make our city a better place to live in,” says Manikandan.
 
