MUMBAI/ CHENNAI: Emerging markets investor   Group has acquired the technology   (SEZ) of the diversified   in Chennai for Rs 2,290 crore, or $350 million.

 Shriram Properties and real estate investor   had put  , a 4.6 million sqft integrated development on sale, attracting interests from GIC of Singapore and Asian business space developer Ascendas.
 
 The sale to Xander, managing assets worth over $2.3 bil lion, comes after protracted negotiations spread over two years. Xander is investing `1,215 crore, or $190 million, to buyout the existing 1.7 million sqft fully occupied SEZ and is investing $160 million more to develop an additional 2.8 million sqft. Shriram Properties will retain the rights to develop the residential and retail sections of the IT park, which counts Accenture and Tech Mahindra among its tenants.
 
 London-headquartered Xander is focused on buying infrastructure, real estate and allied businesses in emerging economies, especially India. It has a partnership with Dutch pension fund APG to own a string of shopping malls in the Asia's third largest economy .Global heavyweights such as Blackstone Group, Brookfield Asset Management and Qatar Investment Authority have poured big money into the rental income earning real estate assets, betting on India's rapidly expanding services-led economy .
 
 Foreign investor interest in the country's business parks remains robust as demand continues to outstrip supply in most top cities, the southern ones in particular where technology clients continue to ramp up office space requirements. India's annual office space absorption is estimated at around 35 million sqft, with cities like Bengaluru and Pune recording under 5% vacancies. Chennai's supplies of quality office space is under strain in the absence of fresh capacities coming in.
 
 “This acquisition demonstrates our continued interest in large, well-positioned assets with growth potential across gateway cities in India, and nicely complements our existing office portfolio,“ Rohan Sikri, Senior Partner, The Xander Group, said.
 
 “The deal is a significant value unlocking move even as Shriram further gains from the development fees on the future office space expansion, besides rights to residential and retail components,“ M Murali, MD, Shriram Properties, said. Xander's investment is arguably the single largest FDI investment in Chennai real estate, eclipsing $220 million invested by Canadian Pension Plan and Shapoorji Pallonji to acquire SP Infocity, located on Old Mahabalipuram Road in 2015. Shriram Properties, the property development arm of the $15 billion financial giant Shriram Group, has so far delivered over 15 million square feet of residential and commercial built up space across the country and has another around 60 million square feet is under various stages of development.
 
 The company holds close to 2% of the FDI in India, the largest by a single developer.Their key investors include Walton Street, Starwood capital, TPG Capital, Tata Opportunities Fund, ASK, Motilal Oswal, Amplus and ICICI Prudential.
 
