CHENNAI: Citing three ‘criminal’ cases registered against actor-politician Kushboo during her  , the regional   has refused to issue her a new passport book.

 Crying foul and pointing out that all the cases were poll-related and that she had either got them stayed by the high court or appeared before the courts concerned, Kushboo has now knocked the doors of the Madras high court for a direction to the passport officials to issue her a fresh passport book. She said her passport was valid till 2022 and that a fresh book was required since all its pages were stamped and there was no space left for new stamping.
 
 She said it was not an application for a fresh passport or renewal of the existing passport. It was merely for additional pages or a new book since the existing book has no space left. Khushboo, who was most watched heroine in the late 1980s and 1990s, said she was anchoring various TV shows now and that due to her frequent foreign trips her passport pages were full.
 
 The Passport Seva Kendra at Aminjikarai informed her that though her passport had not yet expired, she needed to obtain a fresh passport as in the case of renewal, as there was no system of merely attaching additional pages.
 
 Later, they cited the ‘criminal’ cases registered against her by the Andipatti police in   district during electioneering, and said her passport could not be renewed.
 
 Assailing the rejection, Kushboo said she was a “star canvasser and platform speaker” for her party during the 2011 assembly elections, and that three cases – in Andipatti, PC Patti and Natham – had been registered against her poll-related offences of unlawful assembly, violating public servant’s order of restraint, etc.
 
 Kushboo said she surrendered before the Andipatti court after warrant was issued against her, and then got it stayed by the Madurai bench of the Madras high court. As for the Natham case, the high court stayed all proceedings and dispensed with her personal appearance. For the PC Patti case, she has already obtained anticipatory bail. In spite of all these, the passport officials denied her a new passport book, because of which she could not travel abroad with her family members on December 30, 2016.
 
 Kushboo said her family was scheduled to travel abroad on January 12 and hence sought court directions to passport officials to issue her a new passport book. She said earlier passport too had been issued after registration of the three cases, and added that the latest decision had political colour to it. There is no question of her fleeing justice, since her children are studying and she was a tax assessee for 25 years now.
 
 Justice B Rajendran, before whom the case came up for admission, issued notices to passport officials.
 
 
