NAGPUR: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat put all political speculations to rest on Wednesday when speaking at a   here he declared that he was not in the race for post of President of India. Pranab Mukherjee finishes his term in July.

 “It (running for presidency) is not going to happen. I will never accept the proposal. I am a swayamsevak first and I have responsibilities in the Sangh. This is just media’s way of entertaining its readers. Treat it just that way and don’t give it more importance than that,” the Sarsanghachalak said. 
 
 Bhagwat was speaking at the prize distribution and felicitation for social activists working in the field of animal welfare organized by a senior veterinarians’ trust. 
 
 His statement comes a day after Shiv Sena spokesman Sanjay Raut suggested that Bhagwat would make an ideal candidate for President as it would take the country a step closer to become a ‘Hindu Rashtra’. “However, the final decision on whether to support his candidature would be taken by the Sena chief  ,” Raut had stated.
 
 This was the first public appearance of Bhagwat after returning from his Delhi visit. Compèring the function, Sanjay Dhote who is an officer on special duty to city guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, referred in his introductory remarks to the media reports on the issue. 
 
 This may have added to Bhagwat’s discomfiture. As soon as he started his address, the RSS chief clarified that the reports were nothing but a figment of media’s imagination. “Just look at these reports for their entertainment value,” he remarked.
 
 “On entering the RSS, I closed all other doors. Even if my name is recommended I will not accept,” said Bhagwat. “Every swayamsevak knows that I can never be a presidential candidate.”
 
 Some language papers had published reports that there was a move to field the RSS top boss for the post. The fact that Bhagwat was camping in New Delhi for last few days was reason enough for the speculation. Raking it up, the Shiv Sena, which looses no opportunity to needle its ruling partner BJP in the state and centre, had its motor-mouth Sanjay Raut suggesting Bhagwat as President.
 
 “The Sena proposal is nothing but ridiculous,” said RSS ideologue M G Vaidya. State BJP president Raosaheb Danve did not respond to calls for a comment on the issue. But state BJP spokesman Girish Vyas said, “The Sarsanghachalak has given an apt and adequate reply and the matter should be treated as closed. It was much ado about nothing,”
 
 “For us swayamsevaks, the Sarsanghachalak is a revered position with immense responsibilities and inherent power,” said a senior RSS functionary who did not want to be identified.
 
 (With inputs from  )
 
 
