BENGALURU: An alleged suicide attempt by a   at the   sparked off a   on Tuesday morning by drivers and conductors operating on 120 different routes.

 The five-and-a-half-hour strike was called off around 11am after senior BMTC officials told agitators action would be taken against two superiors of the driver for allegedly harassing him. According to Wilson Garden police,  , 35, attempted suicide by consuming insecticide (meant to kill cockroaches) around 11pm on Monday, citing clashes with his superiors over allotment of routes.Tension prevailed the next day at the Shantinagar terminal.
 
 “Madhu is under observation for 24 hours at Victoria Hospital. With rumours of his death being rife, a huge police force was deployed near the terminal in the evening. We informed BMTC employees that he's out of danger,“ a police officer said.
 
 Muthuraj M, conductor of the bus allotted to Madhu on Monday, said the latter was depressed as his seniors didn't allot him his regular route between MG Road and Vijayanagar.Madhu had an argument with a traffic controller in charge of allotting routes to drivers, and was finally allotted a bus plying between Majestic and Attibele around 5pm.
 
 “We went to Attibele and were returning to the city around 8.30pm when Madhu told me he would not drive to Majestic and would park the bus at the Shantinagar depot. We reached the depot around 10.30pm. He went out for dinner and consumed poison after returning to the terminal,“ Muthuraj said.
 
 N Nagaraj, leader of the employees, said the staff came to know of Madhu's suicide attempt and began the protest around 5.30am on Tuesday. They demanded suspension of Madhu's superiors: the traffic controller and a technical staffer who allegedly harassed him.
 
  (transport) Vishwanath, finance adviser Ramamani and chief security officer Prakash Gowda rushed to the spot and assured the employees their demands would be fulfilled.
 
 “The officials agreed to suspend Madhu's superiors after verifying the arguments between them. Madhu's exchange with his seniors has been captured on a CCTV camera. We were also assured that departmental inquiries would be conducted against the duo,“ Nagaraj claimed. The officials assured the agitators no action would be taken against them for participating in the protest.
 
