MUMBAI: “The   is inconsistent with the values and history of the US. We are an immigrant nation, we welcome refugees. We do not believe in religious and racial profiling. Travel ban is a combination of religious discrimination and profiling. It has not made the US any safer,” said  , an   based in the US, raising a red flag against the travel ban imposed by the Trump administration.

 President   had recently signed a directive that banned travel into the US for nationals from seven countries—Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen—for 90 days. The restrictions are part of wide-ranging immigration controls that also suspended refugee arrivals. The administration’s controversial order has been panned by civil-rights groups in the US and there have been huge demonstrations against it in many cities. 
 
 “The curbs have done terrible damage to America’s international reputation and dented its soft power. It remains for the courts to reverse what is unconstitutional,” said Shambaugh, professor of political science at The George Washington University and the director of the China Policy Program, while addressing students at the Mumbai University’s Kalina campus on Thursday. 
 
 Shambaugh said there is concern across the world after Trump’s election. He also made a mention of a phone conversat-ion on immigration Trump had with Australian Prime Minist-er Malcolm Turnbull in which he hung up on the dignitary. “It’s an embarrassing time to be in America. I do not want to op-en the newspaper or turn on the TV because I am afraid of what he (Trump) would have done.” 
 
 Talking optimistically of the relations between India and China, Shambaugh said the two neighbours had moved from being adversaries to a ‘reasonable kind of cooperation’, despite the border issue and bitter memories of the 1962 war. But he warned that India has to be cautious about China’s One-Belt-One-Road (OBOR) connectivity initiative, which spans across Europe, Asia and Africa. The OBOR aims to create the world’s largest platform for trade and business cooperation.
 
 On the wrangle over a permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council, Shambaugh said, “India certainly deserves a seat in the world body along with Japan and Brazil, but the Chinese are blocking all three. This tells us something about the ‘Hindi-Chini Bhai Bhai’ bonhomie.” 
 
 
