AURANGABAD: The   (UGC) recent decision granting autonomy to short-term diploma and certificate courses has sparked a widespread debate.

 The directive issued in December 2016 grants autonomy to central as well as State Open Universities (SOUs) to start short-term diploma and certificate courses. It is deemed to be a path-breaking move towards decentralisation.
 
 The decision, however, is two-edged as private players have raised objections that the UGC has not extended the liberty to them.
 
 The   National Open University (Ignou) and SOUs like the Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) will benefit from the decision. 
 
 The notification said that the Ignou and SOUs that got UGC approval to offer programmes through the distance mode will be allowed to offer certificate and diploma programmes for a duration of one year or less in non-technical, non-medical and non-paramedical fields. But, the decision excludes programmes that require hands on training.
 
 The SOUs can offer programmes starting from academic year 2017-18 without seeking UGC approval. These instates will have to seek approval from its respective statutory board of studies or academic council to run these short-term programmes.
 
 YCMOU officials have welcomed the UGC move. “It will help us in further designing and developing courses tailor-made for our target class,” a senior official said.
 
 A section of private players, however, dubbed the latest directive as continued discrimination against their institutions. 
 
 A senior functionary from a local private institute questioned the special treatment to SOUs. “Why is the UGC preferring and showing so much trust to only SOUs? Private institutes cater to a larger number of students and should be included in the purview of latest decision.”
 
 Shrirang Deshpande, Saraswati Bhuvan Education Society joint secretary, said that autonomous institutes should have been offered the liberty to run short-term courses without prior approval. “Such consideration could have also served as an incentive to private institutions to go in for autonomous status,” he said.
 
 Ravi Bharadwaj, a legal expert in education field, said that it was unfair on the UGC’s part to exclude private institutions. “Any government regulatory body should always endeavour to provide a level-playing field when it comes to competition. The government should stop considering private institutions as taboo,” he said.
 
