Two  , who till a few months ago were hesitant to face the world, will now forge a   together. Nala Sopara resident  , 27, will wed 32-year-old   from Bhusawal in June, after the two met in November last year in Mumbai during an event organised by the  

 Prashant, who suffered 54% burns while shielding his married sister against an acid attack by her stalker (see box inside), had fallen for Aarti the moment he saw her.
 
 But she took her time – the trauma of her former landlord and three of his accomplices flinging acid on her face at Goregaon Railway Station five years ago, because she had rejected his marriage proposal – was still taking its toll.
 
 She accepted Prashant’s proposal on March 5, when the two, along with their families, spent the day together during the ‘Confidence Walk’ for acid attack victims, organised by the Maharashtra State Commission for Women, and NGO Divyaj Foundation.
 
 “Prashant had proposed marriage in January but I was angry and bitter at the world. Of course I will never forgive the attackers but with Prashant by my side, I have learnt to smile again,” said Aarti, who suffered 15% to 20% burns and underwent eight surgeries. She needs four more surgeries. It helped that Prashant knew exactly how she felt. “Not once did he push me into making a decision. He just let me be, and that’s the best thing about him,” Aarti said.
 
 Prashant said he first saw Aarti when she was addressing a gathering about her harrowing experience. “Call it love, attraction, being in awe of her… She was talking about her grief but I could see that she wanted to fight on, that she was not ready to give up. I was drawn to her,” he said.
 
 The two met again in January, during an interaction organised by the acid attack survivors from the state, under the umbrella of the Acid Attack Survivors Saahas Foundation. “I asked acommon friend for Aarti’s number. I also told that friend about my feelings for Aarti,” he said.
 
 During the ‘Confidence Walk’ in March, Aarti’s mother Seema told her that a real-life hero such as Prashant would be an ideal life partner. “The fact that he risked his own life for the sake of his sister is amazing. He is honest, and for the first time after the attack, I began thinking about getting married and having children,” Aarti said.
 
 She was also inspired by her wellwisher Alok Dixit, the journalist-turned-activist who is the partner of Laxmi, an acid attack survivor from Delhi. Alok and Laxmi are proud parents of a baby girl, Pihu. “I have known Alok for a long time, and was thrilled when he told me he was with Laxmi. I had no idea then that a charming man will enter my life,” Aarti said.
 
 The couple said their families couldn’t have been more thrilled. Aarti, who has seen her parents separate when she was in her teens, is a north Indian raised in Mumbai, while Prashant is a Maharashtrian. “Caste, language… that’s irrelevant. We understand each other the best,” Prashant said. And what’s the sweetest thing he’s done for her? “He asked me out on adate and we went to the Juhu Beach,” Aarti, who in 2014 filed a case in the Bombay High Court demanding compensation from the state government under the Manodhairya Scheme for acid attack victims, said.
 
 Dr Vijaya Rahatkar, chairperson, Maharashtra State Commission for Women, said she was “thrilled” to learn about Aarti and Prashant’s upcoming  . “They’ll register their marriage at the Commission’s office in Bandra,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 #On January 31, 2012, Aarti, then aged 22, had got off the train at Goregaon Railway Station. She worked for a private firm, and was on her way to work when her former landlord Pintu Shaikh, his mother Manju, and two of their accomplices accosted her and threw a bottle of acid on her face. This was not the first time Pintu and his family had attacked her.
 
 Furious over her rejection of his marriage proposal, he had earlier stabbed her, for which she had to be administered 15 stitches. Within a fortnight of this incident, the accused threw acid at her. The Railway Police filed a charge sheet, but the trial is yet to begin. The four attackers are presently out on bail.
 
 #In October 2015, Prashant found that a man named Manoj Patil had been stalking his sister, and warned him that he will file a police complaint. The argument escalated and Patil allegedly threw acid at Prxashant’s sister, but the latter managed to push her away and took the entire impact on himself.
 
 He suffered 54% burns, and his sister and brother-in-law also suffered injuries. A charge sheet has been filed, even as Prashant’s brotherin-law, who was already suffering from tuberculosis, died of burn injuries. The accused is presently out on bail.
 
 
