SHIMLA: Union health minister J P Nadda on Saturday claimed that the Modi government would make India free from terrorism. He said that country would be made free of internal and external terrorism soon. He said that on corruption front, the ranking of country has also improved and the country is becoming a socially secure nation.

 Nadda was in Shimla to attend a function. He said that India has termed Pakistan as a terrorist nation at the  . He said that everybody knows that how under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi has isolated Pakistan on terror issue at international level. He said today India has created a place for itself in the world and has build an atmosphere of trust with neighbouring countries like Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan and Myanmar.
 
 He said that when Modi had extended the olive branch of friendship towards Pakistan, latter could not understand its importance so it was under Modi’s leadership that surgical strike was also conducted against Pakistan.
 
 Nadda said that on the pattern of ‘Quit India’, Modi has resolved to build a new India in next five years. He said that in 1942, people of India had decided for ‘do-or-die’ to achieve the freedom and five years later country had got independence. He said that today also there is need to take pledge to achieve the target of ‘New India’ that would be free from corruption and will have social equality.
 
 He said that new India would be free from caste discrimination and terrorism and would be a developed nation. He further said that the Modi government has give social security to the all section of society. He said that insurance schemes, pension schemes and jandhan scheme has connected and benefitted million of people of country. 
 
 He added that post independence, thousands of villages in India were without power supply. He said that the Modi government in last three years has connected 18,000 villages with power supply. He claimed that in next two years, no village in India would be without power supply.
 
