Germany-based   artiste  , who performed in Hyderabad recently, talks about his love for South India and Indian classical music. Excerpts:

 You can call our music Indian Jazz
 
 We try to incorporate elements from the West as well as the East into our music, in a way that makes sense and doesn’t sound artificial. So our music appears to be European Jazz music but it’s very strongly influenced by Indian classical ethoes. You can actually call our music Indian Jazz. In fact, I think a lot of European Jazz music is greatly influenced by Indian classical music. 
 
 I really am in love with South India
 
 What makes me happy about performing in India is the opportunity that I get to collaborate with the Indian musicians. This time we (bassist Jonathan Sell and drummer Martin Standke) collaborated with Bangalore-based Carnatic vocalist Varijashree Venugopal. I really am in love with South India and its music. We performed in Chennai before landing in Hyderabad. Earlier, I had also performed in Kochi and Trivandrum. Every place has got a special atmosphere that really inspires us and our music.
  
 Most of our performances will have a tale to tell
 
 We bring in a lot of on-the-spot improvisations when performing. We believe more in doing concerts than rehearsals. And most of our performances usually have a tale to tell. This time we performed four pieces in Hyderabad. The first piece I named Delhi-Jaipur Highway, in memory of my concert in Rajasthan. Second one was called Kusadasi, which is a town between Mumbai and Turkey. And the next piece paid tribute to Chowpatty. The last song was the Noon Song, that I had composed while waiting for a student in the German classroom.
 
  — I just loved it
 
 I have performed in Hyderabad four years ago. I’m really happy to be back. The audience here is so good. They are really supportive. I have a huge fan base in Hyderabad on social media, I think it’s after my performance in the   in 2012. That’s when I tasted Hyderabadi Biriyani for the first time. I just loved it. We are thinking about coming back to Hyderabad in November again.
 
