The university regulations governing all institutions alike, irrespective of their characteristic strengths and weaknesses, have affected the   of  .

 Even though the Left parties in general were against the   decision to grant autonomy to select arts and science colleges in the state, the Economic Review-2016 prepared by the state planning board has stressed the need for more autonomous colleges in the state.
 
 
 
 
 “The affiliating system of colleges was originally designed when their number in a university was small. The university could then effectively oversee the working of the colleges, act as a body conducting examination and award degrees on their behalf. The system has now become unwieldy and it is becoming increasingly difficult for a university to attend to the varied needs of individual colleges,“ the report said.
 
 The review report said colleges do not have the freedom to modernise their curricula or make them locally relevant.
 
 “The regulations of the university and its common system, governing all colleges alike, irrespective of their characteristic strengths, weaknesses and locations, have affected the academic development of individual colleges. Colleges that have the potential for offering programmes of higher standards do not have the freedom to offer them, “ it said.
 
 Quoting a report of the committee on autonomy for institutions of higher education in Kerala the report said there are colleges in Kerala in the “government and private sector which deserve autonomy and which can prove their full academic potential only if greater freedom is given.“
 
 Referring to   in the state, the review said government engineering colleges, which makes less than five percent of the total number of engineering colleges have academic excellence. “The academic excellence in government engineering colleges is high and appreciable and this was due to the high pass percentage and increasing placement of students in reputed firms. A large number of students are also qualifying for higher studies through competitive examinations like GATE and CAT'', the review report said.
 
