DABHOI/KEVADIYA: On his 67th birthday, Prime Minister   gifted to nation the   on  , the mega project considered the lifeline of  , which goes to polls in less than three months.

 With the state BJP strongly harping on water as key vote churner in upcoming assembly election, Modi fired salvos at the Congress and Narmada Bachao Andolan (NBA) without naming them and recalled how this “engineering marvel’ had to overcome a torrent of conspiracies and sustained campaigns of canards to become a reality after over five decades.
 
 “No other project in the world has faced as many hurdles as the Sardar Sarovar Dam. But we were determined to complete the project on our own,” Modi said, addressing a rally in Dabhoi, around 60 km from Kevadiya where he formally dedicated the project to the nation.
 
 Even as he hailed the contribution of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who had conceived the idea of a dam over Narmada, and Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar, Modi took a swipe at the Congress saying that the progress of Sardar Sarovar dam had always hit roadblocks when people, who have more importance to their party than the nation, were ruling.
 
 “There was a tirade of false allegations at us and several conspires were hatched to stall this project. But we were determined not to take make it a tool for political disputes.”
 
 “I have a Kutchha chittha (detailed account) of all those who tried to stall this project, but I will not name them as I don’t want to indulge in political mudslinging,” the PM said, recalling how the World Bank did a U-turn on funding this project following a massive misinformation campaign on its environmental impact.
 
 “But we were determined.. World Bank or No World Bank…we will ensure that the dam is built,” he said.
 
 It may be recalled that as the chief minister in 2006, Modi had gone on a 51-hour fast to mount pressure on the Congress-led UPA government to permit increasing the height of the dam.
 
 Modi’s dig at Congress continued when he talked about waters of Narmada reaching Rajasthan. “Then India’s vice president   and BJP leader   were surprised how water from Sardar Sarovar Dam had reached up to Barmer without any agitation or struggle. Whenever people who considered nation above their (political party) have got a chance to rule, Narmada project has progressed. But whenever those who considered party more important than the country were in power, there have been numerous hurdles in the project,” he said.
 
 
