MARGAO: Three days after two roadside crosses were desecrated at Curchorem by unidentified miscreants, several crosses and tombstones in the Guardian Angel cemetery at Curchorem were found vandalized in the wee hours of Monday. 

 On July 6, the Curchorem police had booked two case of   of roadside crosses, one at Morailem and the other at  . 
 
 The latest is the 11th case of vandalism of holy structures in quick succession since the first such case was reported on June 18 this year.
 
 The unabated spree of vandalism has baffled the state police brass as the police appear clueless about the identity of the accused in any of the cases.
 
  DGP Muktesh Chander, DIG  , South   SP Arvind Gawas, and other senior police officials visited the spot of the incident at Curchorem and camped at the Curchorem police station throughout Monday to guide investigations into the case.
 
 Speaking to mediapersons after a meeting with the police officers involved in the investigations, Kumar declined to divulge the progress of the probe but maintained that the police were working on some leads that could lead to a breakthrough. 
 
 Stating that the cemetery was identified by the police as one of the possible targets of the culprits, Kumar said that the police had intensified night patrolling in the area. “This time, it was a narrow miss. During the night patrolling, police who were near the kabrastan located nearby, heard some sounds from the cemetery and rushed towards it. When they flashed their torch inside the graveyard, they found a man running away. The police tried to chase him but he probably scaled the compound wall and fled towards the woods under the cover of darkness,” Kumar said. 
 
 Police sources said that the culprit broke the lights of the cemetery and the cables of the CCTV cameras were also found damaged thereby rendering the cameras non-functional.
 
 While all previous cases of desecration pertained to roadside structures, Kumar said this was the first case of desecration in a graveyard. 
 
 The latest cases of vandalism are a reminder of a spate of desecration of temples that took place in 2008-09. Police investigations had then led to the arrest of one person who was also subjected to narco analysis but was later released.
 
