LUCKNOW: It is not necessary to call up bookie every now and then to place bets on   anymore. Investigators working on the IPL   in Uttar Pradesh have detected a connection between Rajasthan, UP, Mumbai and even Dubai.

 While the syndicate has traditionally been controlled from Dubai, thousands of bookies get active during   season in the country. The money generated is routed via Mumbai-based hawala channels. As only nine days are left before the tournament ends, bookies are out to make a quick buck. 
 
  
  
 
 Since law enforcement agencies snoop on those using phones actively, the syndicate now prefers using online tools to operate smoothly, as the special task force of UP police found out. As soon as a match begins, the controllers of IPL   syndicate begin flashing rates, which are updated every minute, over different softwares. 
 
 Enter10sports, betveryfast, 98hub and bet365 are among the popular   platforms which are being used widely in UP. A youth in early 20s, Ajit (name changed) said he paid Rs 1 lakh through virtual currency to get a unique ID and password to access the software. “I am not a bookie per se but I have always been interested in cricket. One of my distant relatives was arrested for betting three years ago and he told me about the software. I pay to get access to enter10sports and then float the rates among acquintances over WhatsApp. If they are interested in placing bets, they get back to me. I only accept bets for favourite team or session (six over). I do not entertain ball-to-ball betting,” said the Banda youth who has been camping in Kanpur. Bets are settled through online payments the next day. Ajit has never had trouble with the law as he rarely uses a phone. 
 
 Additional superintendent of special task force Shahab Rasheed Khan, who arrested four bookies from Lucknow, Raibareli and Kanpur on May 6, confirmed that Rajasthan based men control the UP betting syndicate. “We have names of two dozen main bookies who operate in different parts of the state. We are trying to track them down,” said Rasheed, suggesting that more arrests were likely. 
 
