Mapusa: Mapusa may see a clean and decongested municipal market soon after in-principle approval for several proposals was approved by chief minister Manohar   during a review meeting on Tuesday.

 During the review meeting with officials concerned and stakeholders, Parrikar gave in-principal approval for the renovation and upgradation of the Mapusa municipal market (old block).
 
 The project, which will be taken up in two phases, without disturbing the existing market structure and set up, will have CCTV surveillance, fire hydrant system, underground cabling, toilets, water facilities, ATM facilities, solar panels, etc. The market roof will be covered and will have three ring roads free from vendors. Phase I of the work will cost Rs 19.6 crore and phase II will cost Rs 17 crore.
 
 “The project proposal is being forwarded, it’s a good project. I am very happy that after quite some time I saw a promising, budding project with architectural ideas which is the specialty of Goa. I am satisfied with the looks, concept and idea. The project is in-principle approved,” said Parrikar.
 
 “The Mapusa municipality can invest along with the government. They can keep money in a separate account under non-lapsable funds for this project,” he added.
 
 The chief minister held a meeting at the government complex and at the MMC office building on the first half of Tuesday with officials of JICA, PWD (roads, water supply) mamlatdar, deputy collector, sub- registrars, deputy town planner, NGPDA, etc.
 
 Parrikar said that he has been taking up a series of exercises after doing it in the capital city and in other towns of the state for creation of world-class infrastructure.
 
 “For the project in Mapusa, there will be a separate task force constituted and will have an independent financial backup under the infrastructure component of the government,” Parrikar said.
 
 The task force will comprise representatives of PWD, JICA, GSUDA and MMC councillors. The MMC chief officer will coordinate the task force and monitor work for developmental projects in Mapusa.
 
 “All will be on board, they will formulate the action plan. After 15 days, I will take up another review meeting and I will give the necessary directions and the changes if required,” Parrikar said.
 
 Chairperson Rohan   said that the chief minister has assured the town three projects including the market, municipal garage and a new wider bridge at Tar.
 
 “The market project in the second phase will also include a flower market,” Kavlekar said. “All these proposals will be put up at the council meeting for the passing of resolutions and will be forwarded to the government for the actual implementation of the work,” Kavlekar said.
 
