MADURAI: The   festival, touted as one of the   stretching for nearly 20 days, will be officially promoted as a   by the state government. This was announced by cooperatives   on Saturday after inaugurating the first  . 

 The festival is one of the biggest events in southern   marked by cultural events linking many temples in and around the district. On Sunday, tourists will be taken on a special bus by the department of tourism to witness the celestial event while the car festival will be shown the next day. Arrangements have also been made to give them an opportunity to witness the entry of lord Kallazhagar into the river Vaigai on May 10. The tourists would also get an opportunity to witness a series of cultural events by troupes in the next six days before the curtains come down on May 12.
 
 However, many in the travel industry felt that the administration has been doing little to cash in on the festival's tourism potential for long. "As members of the travel club and hospitality industry, we take the foreigners present in Madurai during the festival to see the event. But for it to become a tourist attraction, the dates of the various events should be announced well in advance, at least six months before the festival starts, so that it can be showcased on road shows in other countries,'' said the former president of Travel Club Madurai, Dr G Vasudevan.
 
 V Geethakumari, who hosts foreign students under the South Indian Term Abroad, said that their programme usually ended on April 15 every year. "Students who come to learn the culture and heritage of Madurai get very interested when they learn about the festival. In fact, some of them extend their stay to witness the festival.
 
 For instance, this year too, one student, Anna from Colorado, wanted to stay back but had to return because her visa expired,'' she said. The festival could definitely be promoted as a major tourist event and attraction if the government made it a policy decision. Dr G Vasudevan said that they had been making efforts to showcase the Chithirai festival with the help of the district administration, police and temple authorities. Special enclosures were being organised for the people to witness important events for the past six to seven years. 
 
 
