KOLKATA: Work for construction of the terminal station at   for the 32-km   (via Rajarhat)   project finally resumed on Tuesday with   (RVNL) demarcating the plot they require for the purpose.

  Work at New Garia was not possible since January 7 after Rabin Sardar — from whose father the land was originally acquired by the railways — and his associates chased away Metro and RVNL employees as well as those from ITDC, the agency engaged by RVNL to construct the station. 
 
 Resumption of work was possible after the state government intervened and Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee cracked the whip against the agitators. Metro and RVNL officials and those from the state government had met at Nabanna last week, where the issue came up for discussion. Chatterjee was then given the job to sort out the issue. On Monday, another meeting was convened by the mayor at his chamber where he urged Metro and RVNL to resume work as Sardar and others have been directed to stay away. 
 
 “Thanks to this move by the state government, work of pegging and demarcation of the plot could start from Tuesday. Nearly 70%-80% of this work was completed during the day. Actual construction is expected to start soon. This is crucial as the project has been progressing quite well and our general manager is keen to commence operations on a 5km stretch (between Kavi Subhash and Ruby Hospital) by 2018. This will benefit a lot of people,” said Indrani Banerjee, CPRO, Metro Railway. 
 
 According to another source, Sardar has been asked to submit his claim in writing. This will then be sent by Metro to the appellate authority which will study the claim and take a decision. 
 
 After that, a joint inspection will be held. 
 
 Sardar’s father Manoj was awarded Rs 1,47,25,735 for 96 cottahs that belonged to him. In 2008, he turned it down. After his death in 2012, the railways wrote to Sardar, urging him to collect the compensation cheque. Not only did Sardar disagree to the compensation amount, he also demanded 7.5 cottahs back. Things took an ugly turn after the railways informed him they couldn’t meet his demands. Metro turned to CM   who had assured with railway minister Suresh Prabhu all assistance in getting roadblocks removed for Metro projects in Kolkata.
 
 
