DEHRADUN: The 115-year-old Mahadevi Kanya Pathshala (MKP) PG College, regarded as the oldest girls’ college in the state is struggling to restore its earlier glory. The college, founded in 1902 was once a premier institution for the education of women in the country but has of late been caught in a legal battle between the family of its founders and the current managing society. While the founders’ family has demanded that the society should be completely abolished accusing its head of embezzlement of college funds, the society members deny any wrongdoing.   Speaking to TOI, Narendra S Bhatnagar, whose family founded the college claimed, “The current managing society is misusing its power to turn the college into a money-making machine while the original objective of our family was to provide quality education to the girls in the state. Complaints have been filed against the head of the society for embezzlement of grants which were given to the college. We want that the current society is completely abolished and the college should be brought under complete control of the state government.”    MKP at present consists of three educational institutions - MKP Inter College, MKP PG College and Mahadevi Institute of Technology with more than 4,000 girl students on their rolls. The University Women’s Association, a unit of International Federation of University Women’ Association (IFUWA) as well as of the Graduate Women International (Geneva) has also extended its support to the demand of the founding family members. Mohini Sharma, secretary, University Women’s Association, Dehradun, said, “The hostel fees has been more than doubled in the recent past only to increase the profits for the society. This makes it impossible for girls of weaker sections to study in the college thus undermining the aim of the founders. The secretary of the society has taken over total financial and administrative control of the MKP PG College thus substantively diverting, misapplying and misappropriating the property as well as the funds of the college.”    An FIR was lodged by the college against the society secretary earlier this year but no action has been taken till now, claim the legal representatives of the founding family. “The complaint was filed almost 6 months back but no investigation has been done till now. The college has a huge amount of properties and it cannot be misused for personal gains,” said Shashank Pande, advocate representing Bhatnagar.    Meanwhile the secretary of the society, Jeetendra Negi, completely refuting the claims told TOI that he was being accused without any reason,”There has been no embezzlement of funds and this entire case is based on the fact that we removed a principal of the college on corruption charges which did not go down well with certain people.”