KOLKATA: Chief minister   doesn’t want the opposition to announce its candidate for the coming presidential polls before the BJP-led NDA announces its nominee for the polls. The West Bengal chief minister is also game for a consensus candidate if the ruling BJP wants it. 

 The Trinamool chief is likely to express her views in the meeting with Congress president Sonia Gandhi in New Delhi on Wednesday evening.
 
 “While the forthcoming presidential polls will top the agenda,   has already indicated that she is unwilling to name anyone as the consensus opposition candidate before the ruling NDA spells out its candidate. She will not close the doors for even a consensus to emerge among the ruling and opposition bloc,” a senior Trinamool leader said.
 
 Yet, Banerjee is leaving for Delhi on Wednesday with an eye on forging an common understanding with the opposition parties beyond the presidential polls. The Trinamool chief isn’t willing to burn bridges with the Congress high command that has thrown its weight behind her on crucial occasions when she has flagged her dissent against PM Narendra Modi during demonetisation and also on contentious issues such as Army deployment at a stone’s throw from Nabanna. 
 
 What’s more, Banerjee wants to keep the Congress high command in good humour so that it reconsiders its proposal of backing CPM’s general secretary   for a second term in Rajya Sabha. Instead, the Trinamool chief may propose a common sixth candidate close to Congress for whom TMC may transfer its preferential votes apart from those for its five named party Trinamool nominees.
 
 Didi is also looking beyond Congress to arrive at an understanding with other opposition parties, including DMK. She is sending Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien to Chennai on June 3 to attend DMK leader M K Karunanidhi’s birthday celebrations. Congress vice-president   is also likely to attend the event.
 
 According to TMC sources, Banerjee isn’t happy with the Election Commission’s decision to postpone the June 8 Rajya Sabha polls. “It is likely that she may broach the topic with the Congress chief. Didi enjoys a very good personal rapport with (senior Congress leader) Ahmed Patel. The four-time Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat is facing a stiff challenge, given factionalism. The delayed poll schedule only jeopardises his chances, for it allows BJP the leg room to engineer a split,” a senior Trinamool leader said.
 
 The reason for Banerjee’s frequent Delhi visits could be to block efforts by the state Congress to come to an understanding with the Left and not Trinamool. It became all too apparent on Tuesday when Congress MLAs decided to move a no-confidence motion against the Mamata Banerjee government along with the Left Front in the ongoing assembly session, in what is being interpreted as its strongest signal to the party high command on which party its loyalties lie with.
 
 “We have decided to bring a no-confidence motion against the corrupt state government run by TMC. Democracy was butchered in the recently-held municipal polls. Yesterday, police resorted to unprovoked baton-charge on peaceful protesters. Even journalists were not spared,” said Leader of Opposition and state Congress leader Abdul Mannan of Congress. Later, Congress and Left MLAs submitted a deputation to governor Keshari Nath Tripathy against the alleged “bouncer culture” within the assembly, where non-MLAs outnumber MLAs.
 
 The Congress-Left’s numbers in the assembly make the fate of the motion a foregone conclusion. The Congress’s numbers have decreased to 39 in the assembly after five MLAs switched to the ruling party; Left Front has 31 MLAs in the assembly. The TMC had won 211 seats in the state assembly. It isn’t without reason, therefore, state parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee took a dig at the Left-Congress joint initiative. “They can do whatever they want,” parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee said in a dig at the Bengal opposition’s joint initiative.
 
 
