CHANDIGARH: Ahead of the Gurdaspur   byelection scheduled for October 11, the   council of ministers on Wednesday gave its nod to notification of crop-loan waiver scheme expected to benefit around 10.25 lakh farmers.

 The cabinet also decided to take over the outstanding interest of farmers from April 1 till the date of notification, leading to an additional Rs 400 crore benefit to farmers. However, since the code of conduct for the   bypoll has been imposed, the state government would have to approach the election commission, seeking permission to issue the notification.
 
 As per state-level bankers’ committee, there are about 20.22 lakh bank accounts with an outstanding crop loan of Rs 59,621 crore as on March 31. The scheme would cover the outstanding liability under crop loan (principal and interest) as on March 31. Chief minister   had in June announced in the state assembly to waive the entire crop loans up to Rs 2 lakh of all marginal farmers (up to 2.5 acres) and small farmers (up to 5 acres). Also, a relief of Rs 2 lakh was announced to the remaining marginal farmers irrespective of the amount of their pending loans.
 
 It has also been decided to a constitute a cabinet sub-committee to provide effective settlement of non-institutional loans and to review the Punjab Agriculture Debt Settlement Act, 2016. A decision was also taken to constitute an all-party vidhan sabha committee comprising five MLAs for examining suicides cases of farmers and farm labourers and suggest measures to address the problem.
 
 Based on the recommendations of the T Haque commission, the crop loan waiver scheme would cover crop loans disbursed among farmers by scheduled commercial banks, cooperative credit institutions, including urban cooperative banks and regional rural banks. Now, the state government would be releasing the entire loan amount to the banks in a phased manner, except for cooperative credit institutions.
 
 Through the proposed notification, the state government would go for one-time settlement of loan with respective banks. As per the notification, the crop loan means a short-term loan for raising crops and needs to be repaid within six to 12 months. It will also include working capital loan, extended to marginal and small farmers. If a farmer has taken loans from two banks, first priority would be given to the cooperative institutions, second to the public sector banks and last to the commercial banks. 
 
