PATNA: Saddened by boat tragedy that claimed 24 lives on Saturday, Bihar government on Sunday cancelled its all programmes including the four-day   being held in  , from where the victims of boat mishap were retuning.

 As per the schedule, the kite festival inaugurated on Saturday was to continue till January 17. But it was cancelled midway on Sunday after the CM Nitish Kumar ordered cancellation/ postponement of all government programmes in the wake of the boat tragedy.
 
 Sensing gravity of the tragedy, union government too cancelled the inauguration programme for renovation of Mahatma Gandhi Setu that was scheduled to be held at Terasia village in Vaishali district on Sunday and PM Narendra Modi was to inaugurate the renovation work through remote system in the present of Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari and   at Terasia village. The centre cancelled the inauguration programme at the request of Bihar CM.
 
 According to the CM's itinerary for Sunday, released by his office on Saturday itself, Nitish Kumar was to inaugurate a programme on earthquake safety at Adhiveshan Bhavan around 4 pm on Sunday. This programme, too, was cancelled in the wake of boat tragedy.
 
 The RJD also postponed its fortnightly 'Samvad' programme, this time scheduled for Monday, where co-operative minister Alok Kumar Mehta was scheduled to hear grievances of the members of grand alliance.
 
 The Yuva JD (U) too postponed its state executive body meeting, to be held on Monday, till further announcement of the date, in the wake of boat tragedy. However, "the Bihar Pradesh JD(U) Mahila Prakoshtha will hold its scheduled meeting of state office-bearers on January 16 at the state JD(U) office," the women cell's state chief Kanchan Kumari Gupta said.
 
 Moreover, ruling parties JD(U) and RJD too cancelled their special feast of 'Dahi-Chura' on Sunday. While the JD(U) had planned to hold a special feast of Dahi-Chura at the residence of its state president Bashishtha Narayan Singh, RJD had organised similar feast for members of minority communities at the house of party president Lalu Prasad. Both the feasts were cancelled in the wake of boat tragedy.
 
