The atmosphere around him is surcharged since “America for Americans“ sentiment rose in America when   became the President. He, too, faces the heat being an outsider but  , a prominent   Sikh who made news after his horse, Misty Blue, was shot dead in a possible hate crime, believes that America is a still a great nation, more safer and tolerant than many other countries but it still has a long journey before it can fulfil its promise of being a beacon of hope for rest of the world.

 Born in Kisumi, Kenya, Sandhu's paternal and maternal families belong to Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur districts in Punjab. A civil and environmental engineer, Devinder's family had emigrated to USA from   in 1966 and is a naturalized US citizen since 1976.
 
 
 
 
 Sikhs and Indians are not being targeted by white Americans but by bigots, white supremacists, neo-Nazis and ignorant persons. Turban-wearing, bearded Sikh men are targeted with verbal and physical abuse or assaulted because Osama bin Laden and other terrorists are often seen in turbans. Indians, including Sikhs, and others of brown colour, are targeted during dire economic times because most of us have jobs, businesses and careers that others think are rightly theirs.
 
 
 
 
 In my opinion, the intolerance has always been present to varying degrees. I would not say the society is more intolerant, but the actions of intolerance are now reported more often. The social media transmits the news around the world in minutes. Actions of compassion and support should also be reported as vigorously , but often are not. The Sikh and Hindu temples, Jewish synagogues, Muslim mosques and Black churches that were vandalized, fire-bombed or otherwise desecrated have seen an outpouring of support and comfort from their neighbors and communities. Muslims have come to the aid of Jews and vica versa. Sikh, Hindu and other houses of worship have similarly experienced love and well-being from their fellow citizens. The good in descent human beings transcends the evil.
 
 
 
 
 Incidents of hate crimes have definitely increased in the Trump era because of his vitriolic and decisive rhetoric.His rallying cry is “Make America Great Again“ and the Tea Party's rallying cry of “Take our Country Back“ are thinly veiled pronouncements “Make America White Again“. A throwback to the 1950s or earlier. Trump's rhetoric during his political rallies and campaign incited and seemed to legitimize the far right hate groups such as the Ku Klux Klan, White supremacists, NeoNazis and nationalists. I have personally experienced a rise in vitriol directed towards me in my daily life, but usually the derisive shouts are from a distance or from vehicles passing by . I have not been confronted such an aptitude in person.
 
 
 
 
 We lost our beautiful Misty Blue in June, 2016, to a senseless shooting. It is possible that this was a hate crime, but it might also have been a cruel act by a cruel and evil person.The outpouring of support and care from our Nashville community was overwhelming. The coverage by the news media helped spread the message but also reported the support we received. I do not feel more insecure, but I am more cautious as I venture about.
 
 
 
 
 The only precautions I have taken are being more aware of my surroundings during work surroundings during wor hours, not going out in public as often after work hours as I used to and, when going out, making sure I am accompanied by friends or I go toplaces where I, and my community , is known.
 
 
 
 
 She is more concerned about my safety than I am because she has experienced the hateful language directed my way at times and does not fully understand it. She has become more politically active, taken to social media and participated in protest marches to voice her opinion against racism and intolerance.
 
 
 
 
 The SGPC and other Sikh groups can send knowledgeable ambassadors into the communities and help educate our neighbors. Every day, Indians, including Sikhs, are more and more visible in the American community, either through TV shows, music concerts, in movies, in politics, in educational in stitutes, in medicine, law, engineering, as hoteliers and other professional occupations. We have to become part of our communities and interact with our fellow citizens. In doing so, we educate our neighbors and our perceived enemies.
 
