JALANDHAR: SAD president Sukhbir Badal’s statement that a political party is doomed if supported by NRIs may just be a reflection of the negligible enrollment of overseas electors in the state.

 Even as NRIs have called Badal’s statement in “bad taste”,   show that overseas voters don’t really have a say in the state’s elections.
 
 A video of Badal making the statement on NRI-supported parties, at a rally at Mahilpur in Garhshakar constituency on Thursday, has gone viral. In the video, Sukhbir is seen citing examples of SAD (Mann), now-defunct   (PPP), and AAP to drive his point home.
 
 According to EC data, NRIs didn’t even make up .1% of the people who were enrolled as voters for the assembly polls in February this year. The data shows that of the 2 crore people who made up the state’s electorate this time, only 364 were NRIs. This figure was just 138 in the 2014 general elections.
 
 “It is clear that a party which is supported by NRIs, can’t form the government. Earlier, all of them were following Simranjit Singh Mann and he was finished, then they started supporting PPP and that also could not win. Now, they followed AAP and it has lost,” Sukhbir is heard saying in the presence of Garhshankar’s former MLA  , Damdami Taksal chief spokesperson Charanjit Singh Jassowal and other Akali leaders.
 
 Ths Garhshankar seat was held by Rathan, but was won by AAP’s Ja Kishan Singh Rori this year. Rori is a dairy owner. He was not a popular face at the time AAP fielded him.
 
 Criticism has followed after the video went viral. Reacting to the statement, North American Punjabi Association executive director Satnam Singh Chahal said there were several NRIs who had supported SAD and Congress. “Even Akali Dal has overseas units,” he said. “If he was so sure that NRIs support could doom a party, then why did SAD leaders desperately try to win over NRIs after the 2014 elections,” he argued.
 
 AAP: Sukhbir frustrated, tried to win over NRIs too
 
 A California-based IT consultant, Nitin Kapoor, who supported AAP in this election and continues his support after the results also, said Badal’s statement was arising out of his frustration as a four-year-old party had pushed the 97-year-old SAD to the third place. “NRIs played a major role in in this routing of SAD so one can understand his frustration,” he said.
 
 Reacting to Sukhbir Badal’s dig on NRIs, AAP chief whip Sukhpal Singh Khaira said NRIs were good for him when they were supporting SAD or Congress, but turned bad when they supported AAP. “They want welfare of Punjab and they are stakeholders also. They have their roots here and love their motherland. If Sukhbir was so sure that their support would rather doom a party, then why was he and his party desperately trying to win them over,” he said.
 
