   filed for a divorce recently and has wanted to end her short lived marriage with Gaurav Gupta. The actress, who got married early this year, has already moved out of the house and has alleged her in-laws of throwing her out.
 
  There are reports of her not being happy with her brother-in-law   proposing to his girlfriend and   actress  . She was reportedly not happy about Smriti entering the Gupta family and started raising issues.
  
  Smriti and Gautam are popular faces on small screen and have been dating for quite some time now. Gautam recently proposed to his girlfriend during a trip to Goa and the two are planning to get hitched soon.
  
  As soon as this news hit Mandana's ears, she started showing discomfort because she did not want any other woman to enter their house.
  
  Bigg Boss 9 contestant Mandana Karimi has moved a court in Mumbai alleging that she has been “tricked out of the matrimonial house’’ by her husband Gaurav Gupta and her in-laws less than six months into the marriage. She has sought Rs 10 lakh as monthly maintenance and a compensation of Rs 2 crore ‘’for the trauma and agony’’.
  
  Mandana resorted to provisions of the Protection of Women Against Domestic Violence Act of 2005 as she alleged harassment by her husband and in-laws. The couple had tied the knot only this January. She alleges that “just a few days before the marriage’’ he was asked by Gaurav and his parents to sign on a document that would have divested her of her rights as a wife. She refused and later they relented. Theirs was a “court marriage’’ followed by a “proper marriage ceremony on March 5.’’
  
  
 
  
  Mandana had come to India five years ago to pursue a career in modelling and acting. She met Gaurav who has a post production company, though a common friend, says her application. It alleges that Gaurav “took advantage’’ of her loneliness and her feelings of love for him and made it a wedding “pre-condition’’ for her to convert into a Hindu “much against her wishes.’’ Her application is also against her mother-in-law, father-in-law and brother-in-law.
  
  Mandana alleged that her mother-in-law had issues with everything’’ she did and made her feel like she belonged to an “inferior class’’ and prevented her from having a “roka ceremony’’ which her parents were keen to attend. She alleges that though married to Gaurav, she was often made to feel “like a stranger.’’
  
  The application alleges that Gaurav would “stay quiet’’ and “never stood up for my honour and dignity.’’
