The end of February has stretched into a long and lazy afternoon for city college students. Almost all the   are done with their theme-based days celebrations and annual fests, leaving students with nothing constructive to do with their time, except maybe to prepare for the exams ahead. Add to that the ongoing HSC board   schedules have cut down the number of lectures, hence colleges are allowing students to have more free time on hand. As a result, city youngsters are spending less time in their classrooms and more time at nearby hangout spots. 

 
 
 
 The HSC exams have disrupted the schedules of all senior colleges, but students aren’t complaining. “Due to the HSC exams, our timetables have been rescheduled. Our daily lectures have been cut down to half, they even get cancelled most of the times. So we have a lot of free time on hand,” says  , a second year electronics student, adding, “In fact, our professors had completed most of the syllabus by the first week of February and now they are busy with the board exams. They have advised us to concentrate on studying, but we haven’t gotten into the studious mode yet.” 
 
 
 
 
  A stroll on College Road in the morning or evening will reveal that almost all the eateries and cafes are houseful. Yet, there isn’t much business coming in, says the owners and managers of these places. “It’s not that more students have started coming in now, it’s just they stay for longer time,” says Sachin Malve, an owner of a food joint on Gangapur Road. He adds that when their academic schedules are packed, or when they have some activity going on, college students tend to spend less time at his place. “But now, because they don’t have much to do, they linger. Sometimes, they stay here for hours after ordering a chai or two,” he adds.
 
 However, the   owners don’t mind students hanging around. “Yes, they stay for long, but they keep on ordering something or the other which is good for business,” says  , another owner of a food joint, adding, “When you have a place around colleges, your main customers are youngsters. You want them to spend their maximum time at your place.”
 
 
