The on-going standoff between producers and exhibitors forum has resulted in a rather dull start to the New Year but that doesn't dim the fireworks that are yet to follow. Last year was heralded as a high point in Mollywood, and filmmakers are looking to carry forward the momentum in 2017 and have already lined up a host of projects that promise a new viewing experience for fans. Here are our top 10 most-anticipated movies of the year:

 
 
 
 Highlight: Mahabharata through Karnan's eyes
 
 One of Mollywood's big budget productions this year, it will see the Ennu Ninte Moideen team of   and director RS Vimal again. Industry sources say that the director has indeed imagined a movie that warrants such a budget and that promises fans an epic Malayalam production that could rival the likes of Bahubali!
 
  
 
 Highlight: US and Latin American locales
 
 An Amal Neerad movie never lets down its viewers especially in terms of its visual grandeur. The upcoming movie with Dulquer in the lead has its protagonist travelling to the US to meet his girlfriend and getting into trouble while there. A Malayalam movie with so many foreign locales is reportedly the first of its kind.
 
  
 
 Highlight: Battle scenes featuring tanks
 
 Indian cinema has not featured many films that have had extensive battle scenes with armoured tanks. And that's what Major Ravi's movie with   that is set against the backdrop of Indo-Pakistani war would showcase. The superstar would once again reprise his role as Major Mahadevan in the war drama.
 
  
 
 Highlight: Inspired from true story of Saji M Thomas
 
 The film, directed by Pradeep M Nair with Prithviraj in the lead, is billed as the first Malayalam movie featuring the theme of aviation. It's also partly inspired from the real life story of hearing and speech-impaired Saji, who built a light-weight aircraft all by himself. Who doesn't like the tale of an underdog achieving his dreams?
 
 
 
 Highlight: Nivin as an intense, spirited comrade
 
 Director Sidhartha Siva could quell all those notions about him being solely a filmmaker of offbeat cinema with this movie. Sakhaavu has   as a student leader and is sure to pack a punch with its intense, hard hitting scenes. The actor says that movie is a complete package with romance, action and drama.
 
  
 
 Highlight: Gusthi sequences 
 
 Director Basil Joseph's Godha has an amazing cast ' featuring Renji Panicker as a wrestling coach, Tovino Thomas and Wamiqa Gabbi as wrestlers. Part of the story evolves in Punjab and it promises a visual treat as the actors step into the wresting ring. In fact, the actors have undergone several weeks of training too to play the parts.
 
 
 
 Highlight: Mammootty, Ranjith combo again
 
 If Mammootty and Ranjith's team up is not enough to hype up the buzz, the megastar's new look combined with his Kasargode slang in the movie would definitely amp it up. Ranjith's playing this one too close to the chest and not many details are revealed. But we are sure if it's anything like Pranchiyettan and The Saint, it will be a social satire for the ages.
 
 
 
 Highlight: The Sukumaran brothers
 
 Prithviraj and Indrajith teaming up for a Murali Gopy script should itself make for an explosive combination. The movie, directed by Jiyen Krishnakumar, is shot entirely outside Kerala featuring locations such as a Leh, Ladakh, Varanasi and Mumbai. To top it off, the socio-political drama will have a host of actors including Padmapriya and Rahul Madhav.
 
  
 
 Highlight: Rescue scenes set in Iraq
 
 For his first movie, editor-turned-filmmaker Mahesh Narayanan has picked a subject inspired by the mass evacuation of nurses in Tikrit, Iraq, in 2014 during the Iraqi civil war. The movie features Kunchacko Boban and Parvathy playing nurses, while   plays an Indian ambassador. The rescue sequences alone should make for some edge-of-the-seat viewing.
 
 
 
 Highlight: 1992 Santhosh Trophy final
 
  steps into the shoes of former national footballer VP Sathyan in this biopic, directed by Prajesh Sen. The movie will showcase the life of the player, who brought laurels to the nation and the State with his performances. Jayasurya will train in the sport for the movie, which would shed light on the life of one of Kerala's best sporting icons.
 
 
