Jack Hebner, also known as Surfing Swami, is perhaps the man behind the surfing movement in India. Hebner, who is from Jacksonville, USA, has been surfing for more than five decades. In the 1970s, he was attracted to India's spiritual ways.At that time, surfing was not popular in India. He set up India's first surf club, Mantra, at  . Excerpts:

 
 
 I love coconut trees! I set up a club in Chennai first but whenever I went into the sea and came back, there was not a single coconut tree that made my surfing more interesting. After a year, I decided to move to a new place. Most club students were from Mysuru and Mangaluru and they spoke Kannada.We searched along the   coast and zeroed in on Mulki. The place has got a river, a beach close by, about 100 coconut trees and serenity. However, it took about seven years for local parents to send their children to our club. Last year, we had 1,000 students from Bengaluru, Mumbai and Pune.
 
 
 
 
 It is for some people. If you don't have spirituality, it cannot be drawn out of you; but if you're inclined to it, you'll definitely find it. If you're driven by money, you may not be inspired by surfing. I've heard many people say surfing is a spiritual experience.
 
 
 
 If you go to any beach abroad which is known for surfing, you'll find lots of people but it's not the same in India. Here, people just sit beside the beach and enjoy their holiday. Beaches here are apt for surfing, free of sharks and fewer people. Nowdays, girls too are coming to learn this sport and get tanned.
 
 
 
 Mantra Club is registered as a home stay, we pay taxes like oth ers. We have certified teachers and run on a voluntary basis. We teach those interested in surfing and Indian spirituality. We charge for training.
 
 
 
 I'm embarrassed but my friends think it's completely corny. The ti tle was first used in 2009 by Huffing ton Post -it branded our group as surfing swamis but as I was the el dest I became the Surfing Swami and the name has stuck.
 
