KOZHIKODE: After the merger of the two   factions, the call for unification of Sunni organizations have been emerging from different quarters, though on a subdued note.
 A few months ago, Darshana TV, which is under the control of the E K faction of Sunnis, had organized a discussion on the same.
 
 Musthafa Mundupara, a prominent young leader of the group, has come up with a Facebook post, calling for Sunni unity on Friday. Saying that 90% of Muslims have been divided over factional and political affiliations, he asserted that unity among the Sunnis was the need of the hour.
 
 “The Mujahids was split due to ideological differences. Such issues do not exist among the Sunnis,“ reads the FB post.
 
 He further said if the Sunnis unite, they would go on to become a force to reckon with in Kerala and unification has become imperative considering the socio-political situation in the country.
 
 The parent organization   had suffered a split in 1989, with a section led by   A P Aboobacker Musaliyar forming a rival organization. All these years, both the sections have been at loggerheads.
 
 Those who have been closely observing the recent developments in the community believe that the call for unity was devoid of sincerity. Musthafa's tone casts doubt on his real intention, they said.
 
 The FB post has a reference to the controversy over the holy hair of the Prophet, which had put the Kanthapuram faction on the backfoot.Moreover, it has concluded by urging the Kanthapuram faction to `return to the family without the intervention of mediators'. The insinuation is that Kanthapuram can return to the mother organization after expressing remorse for engineering the split in the Samastha. Columnist O Abdulla, who participated in the TV debate, feels that the unification of the Sunnis is a distant possibility.
 
 “Abdusamad Pookkottoor, who represented the E K faction, said that Kanthapuram can return after accepting the leadership of   Thangal. This condition will never be acceptable to the rival faction,“ he pointed out. “Both the factions nurtu re deep distrust for the other.Kanthapuram, who has become a towering figure now, is quite impossible to fit in at the rival camp. The E K faction of Sunnis are controlled by the second level of leaders, who are antagonistic towards Kanthapuram,“ Abdulla said.
 
 Both the Sunni factions share the same ideology and practices. “They are against any form of reforms in the community. Both of them are opposed to organizations such as Jamaat-e-Islami and Mujahids. But the divide among them runs deep,“ he said.
 
