SHIMLA: After the body of a 10-year-old student was found hanging in the store room of his house in   area of Theog, Shimla on Wednesday evening, Shimla police are investigating whether he committed suicide after playing the infamous Blue Whale challenge or there are some other reasons behind his death.

 A class V student, the boy suddenly went missing on Wednesday evening and did not return home. When his parents began to look for him, he was found hanging in their store room. They immediately took the child to Theog hospital where doctors declared him dead.
 
 When police reached their house, they found a handwritten suicide note in the house which read, “If you want to find me, then go to store room. Nobody loves me so I am going. I am going to die. Cutting veins nerves etc is not punishment. I am punishing myself by hanging myself. Sorry, you could not see me”. At the bottom of the note, two puzzles were drawn and the boy had written “solve the puzzle”. The school had warned students about Blue Whale game only two days before the incident.
 
 Shimla superintendent of police Saumya Sambasivan told TOI that it is “surely a case of suicide”. He also said, “It is not confirmed yet if he was playing the Blue Whale game. I visited their house to gather evidence on Thursday. The child used to play games on his father’s mobile phone so I have seized the mobile. It has been sent to the forensic lab.” she added.
 
 She also said that they have not conducted post-mortem on the body as the boy’s parents requested them not to do so. “We have not lodged an FIR as it is a suspected case of suicide. We are minutely investigating the matter”, she added.
 
 Shimla deputy commissioner   said, “I talked to the father over telephone. They told me the child may have played several other games on mobile but they have no idea about him playing the Blue Whale challenge,” he said.
 
 Thakur also appealed to all parents to try and find out if they are having any symptoms of depression and loneliness and take adequate steps. “Shimla district administration has opened a child counselling centre in the office of the   where we will provide every kind of help through counselling to the kids, who are suffering from depression,” he added.
 
