DEHRADUN: In the midst of protests surrounding the shifting of liquor vends from near the highways in accordance with the Supreme Court’s orders, CM   on Sunday for the first time aired his views on the liquor issue. Speaking at a function organised by ex-servicemen in the city, Rawat said that his government was not in favour of encouraging liquor consumption in order to fill the state’s coffers. “We do not want to be dependent on revenue from liquor sales to run the state,” he said.
 
  Rawat made the comments while responding to ex-servicemen’s demands to lower the rates of liquor sold in canteens. He asked the women in the gathering whether new liquor shops should be opened. When most women shook their heads, he said, “I, too, am not a supporter of liquor and want the state to look at alternate sources to earn revenue. We want to raise awareness about the ill-effects of liquor and slowly end our dependence on liquor revenue.”
  
  He however refused to divulge much about the new liquor policy that the state has to draft before April-end. The state has over 522 liquor shop licenses which have to be allotted for the current financial year. For the time being, the government has extended the present policy, which was to lapse on March 31, for another month. In response to a query on whether his government would follow  's model in banning alcohol, Rawat said that he would rather adopt a more inclusive approach to stop people from consuming liquor as the outcome in several states who have banned liquor “has not been positive so far.”
  
  He added that his government would soon run a campaign to discourage people from consuming alcohol.
  
  Rawat also said that   Purva Sainik Kalyan Nigam Limited (UPNL) was constituted for ex-servicemen and their dependents and care would be taken to ensure that it is brought to its original format. He added that the requests for the cut-off of 50% to be restored for grant of scholarships to ex-servicemen’s children, and concession in house tax for ex-servicemen’s wives, will also be favourably considered.
