Rajkot/Vadodara: Entire India sighed in dejection when Mithali Raj’s girls lost the recent women’s world cup final after coming tantalizingly close to a reachable target at Lord's. Thankfully, the BCCI showered riches by announcing Rs 50 lakh for each player. But rarely do female players smile their way to the banks in Indian cricket whereas their male counterparts regularly take hefty payouts. In the domestic circuit, match fees of female players are just a fraction of what their males get. 

 In fact, often the measly payouts stay pending for years. In 2015, Baroda women’s cricket team ended up as runners-up in BCCI’s national tournament. But the players who brought laurels to the city are still waiting for their team’s prize money. Again, in January this year, the women’s team reached the finals of national T20 tournament but the prize money is yet to come. 
 
 “The standard and popularity of women’s cricket has gone up over the last few years. So, I think that match fees too should go up. Women playing in BCCI tourneys should be paid at least Rs 30,000 per match. The cricketing gear is very costly and also it is difficult for us to survive with the paltry amount we get,” said Tarannum Pathan, who plays for Baroda. 
 
 BCCI organizes five tournaments for the state women’s teams including Under-19, Under-23 and seniors in a year. Of the five tourneys, senior women players take part in three while the rest two are played by the U-23 and U-19 players. 
 
 Former India cricketer, Mangala Babar who played in the 1982-83 women’s cricket World Cup in New Zealand said, “I don’t remember getting paid money when I played for the Indian team within the country. When we travelled abroad for World Cup, we were given a paltry amount to sustain for the entire month. Now, BCCI is cash rich so it should pay match fees equal to men.” 
 
 BCA secretary (in-charge), Snehal Parikh said, “This time, the prize money is yet to come from BCCI due to issues related to Lodha committee’s recommendations and we hope that it will be sorted out soon. I agree that female players’ match fees should be increased.” 
 
 Saurashtra women’s team coach Nandita Adiya admits, “It is true that a senior women’s player just get Rs 3,500 per match whereas the men’s players get Rs 1.4 lakh per Ranji Trophy match.” 
 
 “But I am optimistic that the situation will change now after the recent show in ICC Women’s Cricket Cup in England,” she said.
 
 Jayshree Jadeja, who plays for Saurashtra team, batted for women’s Indian Premier League (IPL) that would improve the cricketers’ financial condition.
 
 “I have been representing Saurashtra for the last 10 years but have hardly earned. There are half a dozen women cricketers from Jamnagar who have been representing the Saurashtra team,’’ said Jayshree, an opener who played the inter-zonal women’s cricket in Guntur in 2015.
 
 Saurashtra women’s team captain, Mridula Kumari Jadeja, said, “There is a lot of talent among girls coming from poor families but they can consider cricket as a career only if given respectable match fees,” said the 26-year-old from Rajkot. 
 
 Vijay Patel, chief coach of the Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA) also pointed out, “A Ranji Trophy player gets around Rs 1.4 lakh which is definitely far more than what a female cricketer receives at the domestic level.”
 
 
