NOIDA: A nine-year-old boy, who his father claimed had consumed rat poison four days ago following the expulsion of chief minister   from his party, is recuperating in a private hospital in the city. The boy,  , is a fan of the chief minister, his father claimed.

 According to his father Azhar Rashid Khan, Muneer is playing the role of a young Akhilesh in a movie being produced by him. Khan is a property dealer in Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh. He has also co-produced a Nepali movie, ‘Damdaar.’
 
 Khan said the script of the movie was narrated to Akhilesh during a meeting in Lucknow on November 2. 
 
 According to the family, the boy, who was studying in a private school in Shaheen Bagh till last year, had stopped going to school.
 
 Khan said that when he heard about Akhilesh being expelled from the party by Mulayam Singh Yadav, he consumed rat poison as he felt that he wouldn’t be able to make the film too.
 
 “I had taken some money from my father on the pretext of buying something for me. On Wednesday, I paid Rs 15 to a vendor and bought rat poison and consumed it when there was no one around,” Muneer said.
 
 “His mother Huma and elder sister Azra had gone to the market to buy groceries. When they returned, they found that the door was bolted from inside. When we opened the door, we found his thumb bleeding and froth emerging from his mouth, following which he was taken to Al Shifa Multispeciality Hospital in Jamia Nagar,” he said. From Al Shifa Hospital, he was referred to AIIMS but the family decided to shift him from the hospital.
 
 “We shifted him to Felix Hospital,   on Saturday,” he said. While the parents have tried to explain that the ramifications of his actions to the child, Muneer said that that he would not repeat anything like this in future.
 
 According to Dr Nikhil Mehrotra, paeditrician, who is treating Muneer, he was admitted to the hospital on Saturday. “In the referral letter from the Al Shifa hospital to AIIMS, it was mentioned that he had bleeding in his stool. When he was admitted here, he had respiratory problems, 80/50 blood pressure, which is very low for his age and chest pain. We hence decided to keep him in the ICU till his respiratory condition normalizes," he said.
 
 When asked whether he had consumed rat poison, he said that while there was no specific test to determine that, blood in stool hints that he might have consumed phosphides, which are usually present in rodent poison.
 
 Noida: The father of a nine-year-old boy, recuperating in a private hospital in Noida, has claimed that his son had consumed rat poison four days ago following the expulsion of chief minister Akhilesh Yadav from his party. The boy, Muneer Azhar, is a fan of the chief minister, his father claimed.
 
 According to the boy’s father Azhar Rashid Khan, Muneer is playing the role of young Akhilesh in a movie he is producing. Khan is a property dealer in Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh. He has also co-produced a Nepali movie, ‘Damdaar.’
 
 Khan said the script of the movie was narrated to Akhilesh during a meeting in Lucknow on November 2. 
 
 Khan said that when his son heard about Akhilesh being expelled from the party by Mulayam Singh Yadav, he consumed rat poison as he felt that he wouldn’t be able to make the film too.
 
 “I had taken some money from my father on the pretext of buying something. On Wednesday, I paid Rs 15 to a vendor and bought rat poison and consumed it when no one was around,” Muneer told TOI.
 
 “His mother Huma and elder sister Azra had gone to the market to buy groceries. When they returned, they found the door was bolted from inside. When we opened the door, we found his thumb bleeding and froth emerging from his mouth, following which he was taken to Al Shifa Multispeciality Hospital in Jamia Nagar,” he said. From Al Shifa Hospital, he was referred to AIIMS but the family decided to shift him elsewhere.
 
 “We shifted him to Felix Hospital, Noida on Saturday,” he said. 
 
 According to Dr Nikhil Mehrotra, paeditrician, who is treating Muneer, he was admitted to the hospital on Saturday. “In the referral letter from the Al Shifa Hospital to AIIMS, it was mentioned that he had bleeding in his stool. When he was admitted here, he had respiratory problems, 80/50 blood pressure, which is very low for his age and chest pain. We hence decided to keep him in the ICU till his respiratory condition normalises,” he said.
 
 
