As the SC verdict upholding the death sentence of the   rapists brings closure to the case, DT speaks to those artists – not just from theatre – who didn't let her story fade into oblivion.

  The 2012 Nirbhaya gang-rape not only stunned the nation, but was also a turning point for Delhi’s theatre circuit. Nirbhaya became the topic for theatre societies and groups to sensitize people about gender violence. Five years later, plays on Nirbhaya are still being performed, and not just on December 16, refusing to let Delhi forget. For many, the episode also changed the way they perform, making their content sharper and more direct. After the Supreme Court upheld the death sentence of the four rapists, will the narrative of the plays change? Theatre artists respond with, “Why would it change? Nirbhaya kya keval ek hi thi?”
 
 
 Lokesh Jain, a senior theatre director, tells us, "The incident broke through the numbness that the society had developed towards crime against women. It was a tipping point, not just for theatre professionals, but also for DU students. The kind of plays that DU has done after the incident are bold, and sometimes discuss topics that even professional theatre directors don’t take up. Their plays seem to scream, ‘This needs to be heard and addressed!’ Many professional theatre groups don’t do a direct play on Nirbhaya because it becomes unbearable to watch. But in the last five years, most plays on women’s issues have had Nirbhaya references and that will continue. The judgment won’t end that."
 
  
  
 
  
 Rajiv, a theatre director, says, "We could have done a play on Nirbhaya, but it was not one story. Even after five years, nothing much has changed. We thought our play should have more than just her story. Mujhe Jeene Do talks about all these issues related to women where a mother tells her unborn daughter about the horrible society she will have to see. We did this play for different organisations and after the play, when they shared their personal stories, it was not less horrifying."
 
  
 Ravinder Randhawa, who had done several plays and musical shows after the Nirbhaya case, says, "Whenever I’m in Delhi and travel by the Metro, I feel sick the way men stand near women. It was the same when I was a student at Jamia and travelled in DTC buses. Not even one day would pass when I didn’t see men leching at women. Is kadar ghoorne ki himmat aati kahan se hai? This confidence, that I can get away with this, needs to be shattered and that’s why the judgement gives us the belief. The fight will go on and so will theatre, not just in Delhi but across the country. Nirbhaya is not just a Delhi story."
 
  
  
 
  
 In 2013, Lakshya, the dramatics society of Kamala Nehru College, presented the play Ab Bas. "The play was on women’s empowerment. But through one scene, we highlighted how society belittles women who try to fight against all odds. She (Nirbhaya) fought till the end, but the statements that were given by some religious and political figures defeated the purpose. Statements like, 'Nirbhaya ko bhagwan ka naam lekar un balatkariyon ko apna bhai bana lena chahiye tha' were passed. It was important for us to include such cases to highlight the kind of mentality that we live amid," says Zebaish Verma, ex-stage head of Kamala Nehru College.
 
  
 The play Satyamev Jayate by the theatre society of   was on the theme, 'Justice delayed is justice denied'. "We started performing the play in 2013. And no judgement or verdict was given on the case then. We were all angry and disappointed, so our play focussed on the flaws that our judicial system has. Nothing has changed even today. The verdict came five years after the incident. We wouldn’t want to change the ending of the play even today. I think theatre has been able to keep this episode alive because this is a topic which will stay with us forever. It changed our thinking completely on various issues, and made us think not only about crimes against women, but also juvenile laws, male psyche and our judicial system," says Amit Tiwari, one of the actors in the play. 
 
  
 The dramatics society of Jesus And Mary College performed a play on juvenile delinquents. "It took us a lot of time to reach the conclusion that we wanted to talk about juvenile homes. Our point was, whatever happened should not have happened. But when you send the person to a juvenile home, why not give them the right treatment so that they do not repeat the same thing? Nobody had thought that a girls' college would do such a play, but it was important to address this topic as well because it was important to the case," says Amelia Ahuja, director of Chhota Sasural. 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 SP Sengar, director of Ek Thi Nirbhaya, says, "We wanted a straightforward narration. The play was heartbreaking for our team, to enact those scenes again and again. It has been performed on several occasions in different cities, and every time the audience starts crying in the scene where Nirbhaya’s body is shown. At the end of the play, we used to say that the guilty should be punished, but now, we will change the dialogue because Nirbhaya was not just one incident. Our fight begins now – Nirbhaya keval ek toh nahin thi."
 
 
  
  A scene from the play Ek Thi Nirbhaya
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 In its stage production Uncivilized Daughters, Abhivyakti, the dramatics society of  , dedicated an entire act to the Nirbhaya incident. Arsh Dadhwal, vice-president of the society, tells us, “In the play, we talk about women’s sexuality. Nirbhaya was sexually exploited by other men. I was in Class XII when the incident happened, and my parents did not even tell me the details of the incident. I got to know about the details when I came to college. While preparing the script of this play, we started talking about molestation and rape. The brutality in this case was the result of the power that patriarchy gives men. Through the play, we talk about the typical male psyche in our society. By talking about it time and again, theatre has been able to keep this topic alive.”
 
  
  
 
  
 
 Celebrity hair stylist and rape survivor Sapna Bhavnani was part of Montreal-based playwright Yaël Farber’s award-winning play Nirbhaya. Talking to us about her experience after the SC verdict, she says, “The play was the first time that I spoke about my gang-rape. What happened to Nirbhaya helped me face my own fears and speak about what I went through. It was very, very difficult for me, and it damaged me more than it healed. It is not easy talking about your rape on stage, and that was the reason that I actually left that play. I was a part of it for two years but I did not go for last tour to New York, it was impossible for me to perform.”
 
  
  
 
  She adds, “I think the December 16 gang-rape had a huge impact on the entire world and it was the first time when people united and took a stand. For the first time, people were talking about gender violence and crime against women.”
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 --— With inputs from Divya.Kaushik@timesgroup.com and Abhimanyu.Mathur@timesgroup.com 
 
