NAGPUR: Thursday saw the beginning of the lane-marking process on Vidarbha's first synthetic athletic track at the Divisional Sports Complex (DSC) in Mankapur. With just the white lanes remaining to be drawn on the rubber-based synthetic turf, anticipation of the 400m athletic track being inaugurated soon is high within sports circles.

 As reported first by TOI, the track will be competition-ready by June. The local contractor and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) are busy giving finishing touches to it. Once all the pending work as per the contract is completed, the Hyderabad-based firm Great Sports Infra, which has been entrusted with laying the first synthetic track in Vidarbha, will start the process of certification from the   ( ).
 
 "It will take a month's time to complete the pending work. Once that is done, we will start the certification process and will invite the IAAF technical team for the same." Great Sports Infra GM (sales)   told TOI on Thursday.
 
 The Hyderabad-based firm is looking after the technical side of the process on behalf of Super Construction Company, who were awarded the contract to construct the synthetic track and football ground with underground drainage system by the NIT.
 
 Deputy Director (sports) Subhash Rewatkar, who is also the secretary of the DSC executive committee, confirmed the development. "We are planning to inaugurate the track by the end of June. Today, the line-marking began which will take a couple of days to complete. I expect the completion of entire synthetic track project, without the spectators' gallery, in 20 days. Then the certification process from IAAF will begin. I expect the NIT to hand over the track to us by mid-June and we will inaugurate it soon after," Rewatkar said.
 
 Informing the monetary side of the work, Suresh Patel, the partner of Super Construction Company, said, "Works amounting to some lakhs are pending. We are expecting the remaining instruments in a couple of days and then will wait for the arrival of IAAF officials who would complete the certification process."
 
 Former international athlete and secretary of the  , Sharad Suryawanshi, however, highlighted certain missing links on the track. "When I last visited the sports complex, many things were incomplete and were not according to the technical requirements of a synthetic track. They have still not made any provision for steeplechase. Since they have started the lane marking, which is a final stage of completion, all these technical requirements are a must. The DSC committee members should address these technical issues without which they won't be able to get IAAF certification. Friday being World Athletics Day, we are planning to visit the complex," he said.
 
