NAGPUR: For the city crowd, it was a show to be savoured for a long time at the brand new   on Friday. Decked with fresh flowers, glittering under a battery of lights, the venue had been inaugurated just a couple of hours ahead by President of India Ram  , when vocalist Padma Shri Padmaja Phenany Joglekar took the stage.

 Though dressed in a yellow silk sari matched with a quarter sleeved zari blouse and wearing heavy jewellery, she still got merged with the array of fresh exotic flowers that lined the edge of the stage and the pit. Her light rehearsal on stage even as the curtain remained open gave the audience a taste of what was to come.
 
 The show began an hour late, at 8pm, after the arrival of union transport minister  , guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and the completion of felicitation ceremony of guests. 
 
 The appetite of the audience had been sufficiently whetted as she began with ‘Mag maza jeev tuzya watewar walwallel’, a ghazal penned by Suresh Bhat. 
 
 A disciple of Pt Jasraj, Phenany has also honed her skills under the tutelage of Pt   who is credited with composing many of Bhat’s poems. 
 
 Saying that she was feeling blessed for getting this opportunity to present the first programme at an auditorium named after Bhat, Padmaja shared the contents of many letters that the poet wrote to her, expressing his admiration for her signing talent, through a visual on screen.
 
 Presenting another of Bhat gem ‘Visroon za tuza laza tun ter’, Phenany said that her selection for the evening comprised some known and some lesser unknown writings of Bhat. She continued with a bandish ‘Barse boondey sawan ki’ which preceded the hit number ‘Sajan dari ubha’.
 
 Phenany’s silky mellifluous voice spoke of her riyaaz and training. Combined with the excellent acoustics of the auditorium, it cast a spell on the listeners who were ecstatic as she moved on to ‘Sunya sunya maifilit mazya’ from Marathi film Umbartha.
 
 Since the singer was also anchoring the show, there was a gap between the talk and rendition. So much so that she could present only four songs in the first hour. 
 
 Dramatist Parag Ghonge, who is otherwise a fan of Phenany’s singing, said, “I feel she should have taken an anchor. Since she was reading from a script and then singing, the whole thing got a tad boring for many who had been in their seats for nearly five hours.” 
 
