JAIPUR: Campaigning for the   assembly by-poll has gained momentum with just 11 days remaining for the polling day, April 9. The by-election has become all important for both Congress and BJP, as its result would provide fodder to the winner party to sustain itself until the main elections due in December 2018.

 The pressure is identical on leaders of both the main political parties of the state—chief minister   has to replicate BJP’s grand success of the recently concluded   elections, while Congress state president Sachin Pilot has to show that he has resurrected the organisation after its annihilation in 2013-14 elections.
 
 For Raje, the additional pressure is that Dholpur is her home town and also that the Congress’s present candidate defeated even her from this seat in the past. Ever since the by-elections were announced, the chief minister has been visiting the constituency off and on, while her cabinet ministers are taking turns in camping there for days to campaign for the party candidate. This has prompted the Congress to allege that the ruling party was misusing government offices and machinery to influence the voters. The Congress leaders, including Pilot, went up to New Delhi to complain this to the election commission.
 
 Political observers believe BJP has the advantage of its recent victory in the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. The party fielded first-timer  , apparently to tap votes of her community that is said to be the largest in the constituency. In the 2013 assembly election, Shobharani’s husband B L Kushwah was elected from here on the BSP ticket. He was, however, convicted in a murder case in December 2016, so had to resign and the seat fell vacant. It is believed that the Kushwah family still holds sways over its community in the constituency, so the state BJP lured it away from the BSP.
 
 The Congress candidate Banwari Lal Sharma, an old timer who has won five elections from Dholpur in past, is giving tough time to the ruling party, which has a poor electoral record in the district. While former chief minister   is yet to campaign in Dholpur, Pilot has been camping day and night for Sharma, who is seen as the best hope for Congress here. Latest tweet by Pilot on the Dholpur campaigning read, “Door to door, man to man, shop to shop..! Trying to reach as many people as possible in this election campaign (sic).” The tweet showed how important it is for Pilot to win the by-poll.
 
