RANCHI: The   government does not want complacency to get the better of the recently-concluded global investors’ summit. 

 While it basks in the success of drawing investments worth Rs 3.10 lakh crore from its maiden business summit, the state government expects to get the momentum going by fructifying the proposals within the given time frame. 
 
 In an attempt to prove that he was not playing to the gallery, Das has convened a meeting of his senior bureaucrats from various government departments to find ways for facilitating time-bound implementation of projects that will take less than a year to become operational. 
 
 Sources in the state industries, mines and geology department on Saturday said the government has short-listed 25 investment proposals which can be operationalised within a span of six years. Das himself is expected to sit with the investors and address their concerns. 
 
 “Most of these industries have concerns over land availability. They also want to know finer details of the policies under which the government announces tax holidays and more,” a source in the state industries department said, adding that the investors belong to tourism, textile, power, mining and IT sectors. “The CM is serious about the timely operationalisation and wants the projects to be implemented as soon as possible,” the source added. 
 
 K Ravikumar, director of state industries department, told TOI that the investment proposals received will be facilitated by the Jharkhand Investment Promotion Board (JIPB). “The JIPB was constituted last year, but its organisational structures will be laid down. Once ready, the JIPB will be looking after the investment promotion and investment facilitation by coordinating with various government departments. Earlier, the investors had to approach industry director or secretary. Now, they will approach the JIPB,” he said. 
 
 The state industries department on Saturday went on a much-needed break. “We did not get long leaves for nearly a year and hardly slept in the past seven weeks,” a team member of Ernst &Young, the knowledge partner of the government in the summit, said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the state’s largest opposition party   (JMM) criticised the Das government for insulting the tribal revolutionaries of the state by not giving them due respect during the summit.
 
 
