MUMBAI: Developers with projects outside Mumbai said incentives for affordable homes announced in the budget will boost the realty market in the city. The budget has eased rules this year to grant 100% tax exemption on profits from selling flats of 300600 sq ft carpet area rather than the built-up area. This will increase the size of the flats on which a builder can make profits without any tax by 25-30%. In non-metro areas, limit is 600 sq ft carpet area and in metros, 300 sq ft.

 Developer Manohar Shroff, former secretary of   (MCHI-Navi Mumbai), said flat purchasers with a limited budget will benefit a lot from the relief extended to builders.
 
 For instance, if a house in the affordable segment was earlier priced at, say , Rs 20 lakh, it will now cost Rs 17-18 lakh due to the 100% tax exemption offered.
 
 “In Mumbai, a flat with a 300 sq ft carpet area in Dahisar or Mulund used to cost in the range of Rs 25 lakh to Rs 30 lakh. But now the price will drop by Rs 2-3 lakh per unit as more builders will start projects in this category, and so the supplies will automatically go up, thereby reducing the costs,'' said secretary of Builders Association of Navi Mumbai, Ha resh Chheda.
 
 Chheda said the Budget has also extended the time limit to enjoy tax exemption for such constructions from 3 years to 5 years.
 
 In the extended suburbs up to Panvel, Kalyan, Badlapur, Ambarnath--where the carpet area limit to enjoy the exemption has been set at 600 sq ft--the cost of a 1BHK will further reduce as land prices are not as steep as in Greater Mumbai. “The affordable housing sector could not have asked for a better budget. It has a series of directives that are positive, especially the infrastructure status to this sector.It's been a longstanding ask that's finally materialised“, said Rajesh Krishnan, CEO of Brick Eagle. His company has affordable housing projects in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan.
 
 He also said, “Conferring infrastructure status will make borrowing for projects easier due to longer tenures of loans and better terms.The government has already eased norms for registered FPIs for investment in the infra sector (subscribe to bonds issued by unlisted infra companies) which will prove beneficial.'' Krishnan further stated, “Extending the project duration from 3 to 5 years to avail the tax break under section 80-IBA of Income Tax Act is another major move in favour of developers.''
 
 Maha airports to get PPP wings
 
 Maharashtra stands to gain big time from the Centre's decision to public-private operate airports in smaller cities in the partnership (PPP) mode.An   (AAI) official told TOI the state would get priority on this front for having the maximum number of airports in the country. The total number of airports and airstrips in Maharashtra--both used and unused--is more than 25. Of them, AAI manages six--Mumbai, Aurangabad, Pune, Solapur, Gondia and Kolhapur. The Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited manages a total of eight airports, but none of them is fully operational at the moment. Kolhapur, Solapur, Aurangabad and Amravati come under the tier-II category of cities. Airports in these cities are likely to get wings in PPP mode. TNN
 
 Property deals up in Mumbai & Pune
 
 Demonetisation and the wait-and-watch policy adopted by buyers ahead of the Budget brought down property registrations in the state by 24% in January, but Mumbai Pune and Thane showed improvement in the first month of 2017. “In Pune division, registrations increased by 1%, while in Mumbai and Thane, they went up by 7% and 9%,“ said an official said. 
 
