NEW DELHI: States are now putting pressure on the Centre to reconsider its decision to change the date of devolution of state’s share of central taxes from the 1st of every month to the 15th citing extreme fiscal pressures.

  finance minister   has written to Union finance minister Arun   requesting him to reconsider the government’s decision and revert to the “time tested practice of devolution of central taxes on the 1st of every month.”
 
 “You will appreciate that the practice of devolution of central taxes to states on the 1st of every month has been in vogue for a long time. This sudden decision of the government of India will result in deterioration of financial health of states,” Mitra said in his September 22 letter.
 
 “Timely release of such fiscal resources as provided in the Constitution is critical in maintaining the balance in expenditure and revenue flow in real time basis in state finances,” he said in his letter which has also been sent to all members of the GST Council. The Council, which is headed by Jaitley and has state finance ministers as members, is expected to meet on October 6 to discuss several issues linked to the implementation of the Goods &   (GST).
 
 The department of economic affairs in the finance ministry had informed states in August about the government’s decision to change the date of devolution of states share in central taxes from the 1st of every month to 15th of every month for the current financial year and from monthly devolution of central direct taxes to quarterly devolution from next financial year which is 2018-19.
 
 Mitra in his letter said the state government strongly disagreed with the Centre on this issue. He said financial pressure to the state exchequer becomes maximum at the beginning of every month due to huge liabilities for payment of pension, salary, wages and payment towards other administrative costs and interests.
 
 “The proposed change in tax devolution schedule would force the state to borrow even in the first week of the month thereby increasing the interest burden,” Mitra said, adding that due to the implementation of GST there is a fair amount of uncertainty in collection of GST which has already adversely affected the state’s own tax revenue.
 
 “If there is any loan repayment at the beginning of the month, the state may hve to resort to overdraft also in case of acute financial crunch due to non-availability of timely adequate resources,” the West Bengal FM said while urging the Centre to reconsider its decision.
 
