NEW DELHI: Nearly three to four years after hiring 120   as   (AO), the Directorate General of Civil Aviation ( ) is training them to be fit their job description — inspecting planes and ensuring they fly safely. 

 The reason: These 120 engineers are from electrical or mechanical streams and know precious little about aircraft or aviation apart from having flown as passengers. Their recruitment was a bid back then to fill up vacancies in crucial wings of DGCA and get back India’s safety ranking. 
 
 “The AOs hired are not at fault. Those who hired them have moved out from DGCA. They are very young people and have their entire life in front of them. We have to find a way of making them useful for the DGCA,” said a highly-placed source. 
 
 DGCA chief B S Bhullar, who is preparing the ill-equipped DGCA for yet another international audit later this year, is learnt to have tied up with   engineering and Airport Authority of India’s (AAI) National Institute of Aviation Management & Research (NIAMAR) for training the AOs.
 
 Bhullar has worked out a six-month program for these yet-to-be airworthy AOs where they will undergo go three-month classroom sessions by NIAMAR and be taught all about aircraft. Then spend the remaining three months with AI engineering for practical training on aircraft. 
 
 “At the end of this programme, the 120 AOs will get a certificate which should hopefully pass international scrutiny and let these engineers be recognised as being knowledgable about aviation. Training each of the 120 AOs will take a year. Bhullar feels the young men and women should not be penalised for being in a job they currently know nothing about but be trained to do the same,” said a source. 
 
 Indian aviation has been booming since 2005 when the first real low-cost carrier, Air Deccan, started flying. Within months, IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir also took wings that led to dramatic increase in number of people flying in India. However, the regulatory mechanism of DGCA was not strengthened simultaneously that led to doubts among International agencies.
 
