A 10-year-old girl from Thane’s   has alleged that a 13-year old boy from the neighbourhood molested her outside the washroom on the second floor of her school on Thursday. She said the boy, who’s not a student of the school, barged inside with two of his friends and gagged her with a handkerchief.

 A complaint, filed by the school principal at the  , quoted the girl as saying that she managed to escape after biting on the boy’s hand. The girl’s parents have told the cops that they accessed the school’s CCTV footage which shows the boy entering the premises, even as the boy’s mother said it was an old footage and that her son was not present at the spot. The complaint quoted the girl, a Std V student, as saying that the incident traumatised her to such an extent that she collapsed in the classroom.
 
 Senior Inspector   from Kapurbawdi Police Station said an offence has been registered under the Indian Penal Code Section 354 (assault on a woman with intention to outrage her modesty). “It’s a case wherein the complainant and the accused are both minors and we are proceeding with extreme caution. The CCTV footage is being examined and we are speaking to both parties,” Banwalkar said.
 
 The school principal refused to comment, even as the FIR named her as the complainant. The girl’s parents have accused the school of attempting to hush up the matter, saying they were being discouraged from approaching the police.
 
 “Our daughter told us that this boy, who is regularly seen inside the school despite not studying there, gagged her and stepped on her foot to prevent her from escaping. The principal refused to believe us till we on our own accessed the CCTV footage,” the girl’s mother said.
 
 Preliminary investigation by the police revealed the boy is a student of a civic-run school in the neighbourhood, and is often seen at the girl’s school as he has several friends studying there.
 
 His mother, who works as maid, said he was being framed as he was an “easy target”. “My son was at his school on Thursday. You can check with his teachers,” the boy’s mother said.
 
 The girl’s parents questioned the school security, saying an outsider managing to enter the premises was good enough a reason to take action against the management. “Our daughter managed to escape this time around, but who would have been responsible if something worse had happened?” her parents asked.
 
