HYDERABAD: At a time when the   ( ) is struggling to integrate various master plans for the Hyderabad Metropolitan Region (HMR) for the past two years, some officials have changed the land use of aland parcel illegally for benefit of a private real estate firm. 

 Four officers who were allegedly involved in the scam also caused huge financial loss worth crores to the state government. Till date, the four officials including a director (master plan) have been issued memos and further action against them is likely to be taken in the coming days.
 
 Official sources said Ms New Mark Urban Space applied for   (CLU) in survey nos 223, 224, 225P, 226 and 232 of Fathepur village in Shankerpally mandal in Ranga Reddy district for about 27 acres. However, as per the master plan rules, the land under the survey numbers mentioned by the firm was earmarked as a conservation zone, where no residential activity is permitted, and Peri Urban land, where construction is permitted on only 25% of the total area. The scam began when the officials said the survey numbers of the site, which is located on the main road of Shankarpally to Dhobipet, was missing in the master plan prepared earlier by the HMDA. While making corrections and incorporating missing survey numbers in the master plan, HMDA planning officials fudged the records by denoting 15 acres of the near 27 acres sought by the realty firm as falling under residential zone. Only about 11.3 acres was shown as falling under conservation and Peri Urban zones.By doing so, the officials made it clear that there is no requirement of CLU for 15 acres. The remaining 11.3 acres require CLU and the state government's approval, they said.
 
 The issue came to light after an officer noticed the changes and brought it to the notice of HMDA metropolitan commissioner T Chiranjeevulu who immediately stopped the corrections and ordered an internal probe into the issue. The internal probe revealed that one Director (II) of master plan wing K Vidyadhar, chief planning officer G Narendra, planning officer R Nageshwara Rao and assistant planning officer K Kalpana were preliminarily found to be responsible for the fudging of the master plan.
 
 HMDA commissioner Chiranjeevulu said explanation has been sought from the four officers and that action would be taken against them after the inquiry . The corrections in the master plan have been undone immediately , he added.
 
