JALANDHAR: Multiple court and NGT orders, backed by the tough talk and counselling by the   government on stubble burning, have led to a spurt in sale of straw management equipment. While dealers of such machines are finding it difficult to meet the booming demand, the farmers who have already bought such machines are hoping to make extra money by renting them out. 

 Inquiries from dealers selling mulchers and mould board (MB) ploughs have revealed that there is an increase of five to 10 times in the demand of these appliances as compared to last year. Mulcher is used for cutting the crop residue left after harvesting into small pieces. The MB plough helps in mixing these pieces up to over one feet deep into the soil. The price of the two appliances, which have to used together, ranges between Rs 4 lakh and Rs 4.5 lakh depending on the brands. 
 
 Element of desperation among farmers is also palpable as some of them were fined by the administration during the last paddy season.
 
 Ranjit Singh Thind of   at  , who is dealer for an Indian company for   and   districts, said that they had already supplied 150 mulchers and 60 MB ploughs. He put his previous year’s sales figures at 33 mulchers and around a dozen MB ploughs. “Daily we are getting demand for farmers but we are unable to meet it. Some are even booking in advance,” he said.
 
 Nakodar-based Paramjeet Singh Bhangoo, who runs dealership of an international company manufacturing these equipment, said that he had already sold 150 mulchers and 120 MB ploughs. He said that he had sold only one dozen mulchers and 30 MB ploughs last year. “We still have bookings of around 50 mulchers and more queries are coming in,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile,  , a farmer from Ahmadpur village in Kapurthala district, said that he had purchased a MB plough recently. “While I shall be using it in my farms, I am also getting requests from other farmers to use it. I would also run it on commercial basis,” he said.
 
 Talwandi madho farmer Amrik Singh has just purchased a mulcher machine. “Requests from farmers are flooding in. We shall offer it on rental basis after we have used it in our own fields,” he said.
 
 Another Nakodar-based dealer, Sukhdev Singh, who too sells appliances of an international brand, said that he had already sold around 60 mulchers as compared to just five last year, while MB ploughs was also being booked by farmers as they were yet to get its supply. “Demand is more and supply is less,” he said.
 
