PUNE: The ambassador of Sudan Sirajuddin Hamid Yousif visited the historic   at the   (NDA) on Friday. 

 Sources from the NDA told TOI, “Ambassador Yousif was curious to stop over at the block since it is named after his country. On Friday, he visited the block and was impressed with the structure.” 
 
 The ambassador also discussed various subjects with the commandant and deputy commandant of the academy. The NDA has been imparting training to cadets from 28 friendly countries, including Sudan.
 
 “Every country, including Sudan, has a specific vacancy of cadets. The Sudanese cadets were trained at the academy in the past. At present, there is no cadet from the country at NDA,” sources added.
 
 During the visit, Ambassador Yousif visited the central Cadets’ Mess. He was also taken to the Army, Navy and Air Force training teams.
 
 The Sudan Block is an iconic structure at the NDA. Its massive dome is its most emblematic and remarkable feature and looms over the landscape of the Khadakwasla estate.
 
 According to the NDA’s archival records, in 1941, the Sudanese government donated 1 lakh (Rs14 lakh) to recognize the gallantry of the Indian troops in the defence of Sudan in the North African campaign during World War II. Of this amount, on partition of India in 1947, Rs6 lakh was given to Pakistan and Rs8 lakh was used to build the block.
 
 The foundation was laid on October 6, 1949 by Pandit  . The work was completed in 1954. Formal naming ceremony was performed on May 30, 1959 by  , the then Sudanese Ambassador to India.
 
 The block itself is a massive, compelling presence lined with Jodhpur stone. It has an arcade of Grey Chinchwad stone, which has an Octagonal marble entrance hall immediately below the dome.
 
 The inner dome is about 70 feet high. The marble entrance hall is the most grand feature of the remarkable building with its black polished Italian marble walls and pillars with polished brass embellishments.
 
 The effect of its architectural grandeur is enhanced manifold by the oil paintings of the NDA martyrs that hang there. The inner dome has a central eye in the shape of the Asoka Chakra with murals and painted walls that are reminiscent of the ancient Ajanta Caves.
 
 The Sudan Block has grey stone arches at its entrance, which are gracefully offset by the pink stone colonnades of the first and second floor. It has imposing stone pillars and galleries and canopies of the Rajput style on its flanks. From its balconies, one can get a breathtaking view of the central terraced garden with its fountains and flowers.
 
