MANGALURU:   fans in Undivided   district have decided to raise their voice against the ban on the rural sport by holding a mass   in   on January 28.

 District Kambala Samiti, Sampradaya Kambala Samiti, Kambala Academy and Moodbidri Koti-Chennaya Jodukare Kambala Samiti will hold a protest rally taking 200 pairs of buffalos from Swaraj Maidan to Kadalakere Nisargadhama kambala track in Moodbidri. Moodbidri Koti-Chennaya Jodukare Kambala Samiti president K Abhaychandra Jain told reporters that 50,000 - 75,000 kambala fans from all sections of the society in Tulunadu are expected to take part in the rally, which will be held as an assertion of rights.
 
 "We expect a favourable judgment from the High Court, where a petition against ban on kambala is pending for hearing on January 30. We have filed an application seeking the court to advance the hearing and pronounce a judgment. If the High Court pronounces a favourable judgment before January 28, we will hold kambala instead of protest rally as a 'vijayotsava' on that day," Jain said and warned the protests will intensify with a motto 'do or die for the protection of kambala' in the days to come.
 
 Cine actors from Tulunadu, sports persons, various organisations, students from schools and colleges, farmers and all kambala fans will take part in the procession. Requests have been sent to organisations and institutions to make the protest rally successful, Jain said.
 K Gunapala Kadamba, president of the Kambala Academy, said   should never be compared to kambala. "In the history of kambala, there are no instances that prove animals being tortured or dead. Kambala, which is a part of worship, tradition and culture of farmers in coastal Karnataka, has its own history and it is evident through documents and inscriptions. It is an only folk sport that is being organized without any boundaries of caste, religion, rich and poor," Kadamba said.
 
 He said there are hundreds of kambala fields in coastal area from Byndoor in Karnataka to Kasaragod in Kerala. "Karnataka government had promoted the kambala by sanctioning funds and honouring achievers with 'Karnataka Rajya Dasara Award', 'Karnataka Rajyotsava Award' and 'Karnataka Kreedaratna Award'. The government also has set up a committee of officials from seven departments including the dean of Karnataka Veterinary, Animal and Fisheries Sciences University to study kambala. People, who love kambala in coastal Karnataka, are enraged against those organisations that do not have proper information on the cultural aspects of the sport. Kambala, which is being held in a very systematic manner, has been banned citing issues related to jallikattu," Kadamba opined. 
 
 Meanwhile, Biruver Kudla, a Mangaluru based youth organisation, will launch a post card campaign against kambala ban.
 
 Biruver Kudla member Nithesh Kumar Marnad said they will launch the campaign against kambala ban immediately through its 10,000 members and their family members. Post cards urging the government to allow kambala will be sent to Governor Vajubhai Vala. The organization has units at six places in the region. Members of all these units will collect post cards and it will be sent to the Governor. The organisation will join hands in the fight for kambala with all organisations, he told reporters adding that their fight will continue till ban on kambala is lifted.
 
 Extending its support to kambala,   will hold a protest meet in front of deputy commissioner's office on January 24 at 11am.
 
