HUBBALLI: As the mayoral election for the   Municipal Corporation (HDMC) draws close, aspirants are busy lobbying for the post. The term of the current mayor Manjula Akkur and deputy mayor Laxmi Uppar ends on March 7.

  The election to the posts of mayor and deputy mayor will be held on March 4. This year, the mayor’s post has been for an OBC (2A) category candidate, while that of the deputy mayor has been earmarked for SC (woman).
 
 In the 2013 HDMC elections, the   emerged as the single largest party winning 33 seats. The Congress bagged 22, the JD(S) nine, the Karnataka Janata Paksha one, and the remaining two went to independent candidates. Of those to occupy the post in the last three years, two have been from Dharwad – Manjula Akkur and Shivu Hiremath – while Ashwini Majjagi was from the Hubballi Central constituency. This year, members are demanding the election of a mayor from the Hubballi East constituency.
 
 However, the BJP is faced with a problem of plenty with many candidates throwing their hat into the fray. DK Chavan, who represents ward 53, Ramanna Badigeri (ward 37), Narayan Jartarghar (ward 56), second-time corporator Shivanand Muttanavar (ward 57), another second-time counsellor Sanjaya Kapatkar (ward 14),   (ward 21), Umeshgowda Koujageri (ward 26) and   (ward 30) are in the race for the mayor’s post.
 
 Laxmibai Bijawad (ward 50) and Honnava Arakeri (ward 62) are in the fray for the post for deputy mayor. A second-time corporator, with experience, Laxmibai appears to be the favourite for the job.
 
 The Somavamsha Sahasrarjun Kshatriya (SSK) community has thrown its weight behind DK Chavan, and has asked Jartarghar to support the former as well. The SSK community’s Panch committee too has requested BJP to consider Chavan. 
 
 “Candidates of other important and influential communities have been made earlier when the BJP has been in power, but SSK members have not been given a chance. So, the BJP is seriously contemplating giving the opportunity to a member of SSK community. But, Badigeri, a third-time corporator from the Vishwakarma community, is also a strong contender for the post. So, BJP is likely to elect either Chavan or Badigeri,” sources said.
 
 Dharwad district BJP president Nagesh Kalburgi told TOI, “We have received seven applications for the mayor’s post, and two for that of the deputy mayor. We will hold a meeting of BJP members and elected representatives in the evening on Friday. The core committee will announce the candidate on Saturday.”EOM/02/3/17/Kattimani
 
 
