AHMEDABAD: Gujarat needs to formulate a suitable strategy to unlock the significant growth potential of the dairy sector. This requires productivity enhancement, strengthening and expansion of village-level infrastructure for milk procurement, and providing greater market access to producers, states an analysis made by   (AERB). The bureau based its findings on statistics published by the   (NDDB).

  Though the number of registered units manufacturing dairy products in India has increased by about 23% between 2010-11 and 2014-15, the number of such units in Gujarat has dropped by about 14% during this period, the study said.
 
 “There is a need to recognize the importance of small farm dairy units and opportunities for value chain development, which can lead to poverty reduction and rural development in Gujarat,” said D S Rawat, national secretary general, Assocham.
 
 Milk production in Gujarat grew by 4.9% to reach 11.26 million tonnes (MT) during 2015-16. “Despite commanding the third-highest share in India’s total milk production, Gujarat has registered just about five per cent annual growth in this regard between 2014-15 and 2015-16,” the study by   said.
 
 With a milk production of 26 million MT,   is ranked at the top of India’s milk producing states. India’s total milk production in 2015-16 was above 155 million MT, and UP contributed 17% of the nation’s milk output. Rajasthan followed UP with 12% of national output, while Gujarat contributed 7.9%.
 
 “Gujarat should aim to become numero uno in milk production,” suggested the study, pointing out that total milk production in India grew over 6% in 2015-16.
 
 Industry experts, however, say that it is very difficult for Gujarat to reach the top position in milk production as Uttar Pradesh is way ahead. But, Gujarat can certainly aim to become the second largest milk producing state at the moment.
 
 Irregularities cost   717 crore, says HC
 
 Ahmedabad: Gujarat high court observed that irregularities committed at Dudhsagar Dairy in Mehsana resulted in a Rs 717-crore loss for the milk cooperative. The HC took into consideration evidence with regard to irregularities and administrative decisions taken by the governing bodies, which revealed a scam of Rs 717 crore. The court was hearing a petition filed by the Mehsana District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union Ltd, which challenged the cooperative registrar’s decision of May 2015 to order a special audit in 28 different matters, pertaining to decisions taken in the cooperative.
 
