CHENNAI: Poor monsoon in the last 140 years has left Tamil Nadu parched. Acknowledging the acute drinking water situation, the state government on Wednesday told the legislative assembly that concrete efforts were on to tackle the crisis across the state. 

 Chennai's drinking water reservoirs have only 13% of its full capacity as on Wednesday. "Due to successive monsoon failure, both southwest and northeast, besides the lack of Krishna   (in   canal from Andhra Pradesh), the storage in water bodies has dipped to critical levels," said municipal administration and water supply minister S P Velumani. The minister said his ministry has taken up Rs 100 crore work to "maintain" the supply in the month of May. Metrowater supply has reduced by 30% since January.
 
 Repeated visits to Andhra Pradesh by ministers and bureaucrats could fetch only 2.8tmcft of Krishna water since October last. The bifurcation of the state has worsened the situation for water-starved Chennai when the bilateral agreement guarantees 12tmcft from across the border. Relying heavily on the desalination plants at   and Nemmeli, ground water sources (well fields), Veeranam pipeline and private agricultural wells, managers are now eyeing water bodies in the suburbs. They have increased the number of water tankers and supply from borewells in Neyveli, Paravanor and Gadilam basin.
 
 The situation is so grim that the state has been trying to avail whatever funds available. The state disaster relief fund and THAI scheme have also come to their rescue. Advisories have now been sent to give priority to water supply schemes under various heads of accounts, including village and panchayat union general funds and MLA local area development funds. "Many source augmentation projects are on. The last resort would be to extend water supply through tankers. The recent spells of rain have been of some help, especially in the delta districts and southern and western belts. But given the extraordinary situation, people should use water judiciously and consider water recycling," a senior government official said. 
 
 DMK MLA K Pitchandi said water was being sold at 15/pot in the rural areas, and several combined water supply schemes have been hit. But the government contended that local bodies have swung into action by installing mini power pumps, hand pumps, deepening open wells, replacing old motors and installing borewells. The total storage in major reservoirs is just 10%. The storage in   has now reduced to a mere 160mcft. Velumani said the supply by the TN water supply and drainage board is 1,565 MLD (70% of the designed quantum of the schemes) to the rest of the state. "We have taken up Rs 976 crore worth work," the minister said. 
 
