Gurgaon: A young Sikh, pursuing higher studies in Australia, returns home with an Aussie girl, much to the dismay of his father. “Australia degree lene gaye thay ya biwi?

 “Your mother and father have diabetes — do you also want to give them a heart attack?” Thus starts a chortle-inducing ad film praising the diabetes-fighting qualities of an Australian brand of cooking oil.
 
 Later, the patriarch’s eyes alight on a plate of tikkis. As he picks one up, his wife tells him they’ve been prepared by his daughter-in-law. “Doesn’t she know we have diabetes?!” Lucy (now Lucy Kaur) says yes, she does know, before explaining to her father-in-law she’s cooked them in ‘Wagga Wagga Diabetes Care Oil’ (which helps control blood sugar).
 
 Mr Singh becomes a convert, telling his friend here’s an oil made in a place where the air, water and soil are “very pure”. A place that goes by the name of   (a city in rural New South Wales). “Not everyone can get a bahu like Lucy, but they can certainly get diabetes care oil,” says the now content Sardarji.
 
 It’s an engagingly conceived campaign, and the agency behind it is Mumbai-based  . ‘Wagga Wagga’, meanwhile, is a product of   (AGRL), whose origins are in Australia but base in Noida. AGRL is positioning its diabetes care oil – now in India, alongside three other variants – as “the Australian that helps control blood sugar”. So, you have Lucy Kaur, Aussie by birth but Indian by heart, using a made-in-Australia oil to win over her Indian in-laws, in this series of four short films.
 
 Following a multi-agency pitch, DDB Mudra West was recently appointed branding and communications partner for AGRL’s range of cooking oils. “There is an incredible source story that Wagga Wagga can boast of – along with the health benefits of it being a diabetes management oil,” shared Rahul Mathew, national creative director, DDB Mudra Group. “We wanted to make sure we communicate all of that in an interesting manner. And Lucy was the marriage of all our intents.”
 
 The population of diabetics in India is second only to China, so the brand name, says Sujay Naik – project director, Agro Global Resources Pvt Ltd – is self-explanatory. “This makes life simple for the consumer – but a challenge for the marketer. We didn’t want the brand to come across as medicinal or being exclusively for diabetic patients. We didn’t want it to be preachy or prescriptive.”
 
 Cue to another of the videos, which has Lucy’s father visit India, a picture of robust Antipodean health. Impressed, her father-in-law asks, “of which soil is he?” Lucy replies, proudly, “The soil of Wagga Wagga.”
 
 It’s bound to bring a smile to any face. As Naik said, “We look forward to seeing what Lucy does from here.”
 
 
