Chandigarh: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday filed a charge-sheet against IFS officer Birendra Choudhary in its special court in the Rs 1-lakh graft case.

 He was charged under section 7 (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) and others of Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 The 1,500-page charge-sheet mentioned a list of more than 25 prosecution witness. Their statements have been recorded. The CBI also has given references of other corruption cases against Choudhary in other states.
 
 Choudhary, member secretary, Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, was caught red-handed while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh on July 17. Rajinder Kumar, a businessman, had alleged Choudhary served him a show-cause notice regarding revoking of consent to operate his sawmill on December 6, 2016. He met Choudhary to explain his side of the story but did not receive a proper hearing. Three other businessmen who had received similar notices also met Choudhary. CBI officials said Choudhary demanded a bribe of Rs 50,000 each from all four of them. The amount was reduced to Rs 25,000 each. It was decided that Kumar would hand over the collected Rs 1 lakh to Choudhary at his house. The CBI had also taped the conversations between Choudhary and Kumar.
 
 During the search of his house, the CBI recovered Rs 2 lakh and documents pertaining to properties and bank accounts. The copy of charge-sheet would be supplied to the defence counsel on the next date of hearing.
 
 Box
 
 Another case 
 
 The CBI also mentioned another corruption case registered against IFS officer Birender Chaudhary. It was mentioned that a case of corruption was going on against him in Mumbai as well. When he was posted as deputy forest conservator at Dadar and Nagar Haveli in 2010, he was booked by anti- corruption cell of Mumbai.
 
 Bail petition withdrawn
 
 The defence counsel withdrew the bail application of IFS officer Birendra Choudhary filed in the CBI court on Wednesday. Defence counsel AS Sukhija stated that since the   was filed against him, he would file the bail petition again.
 
 
