NAGPUR:  (IIM), Indore, director Rishikesha T Krishnan on Sunday said that philosophy of increasing innovations is that there is no hierarchy as far as ideation at organizational level is concerned.

 “For creativity you need to have innovation discipline. In big organizations, it is seen today that good ideas are coming from people who have worked there for quite sometime. The old employees know what problems affect their organization rather than the ones joining recently. So new employees are less likely to contribute much,” said Krishnan.
 
 He was speaking during a talk on systematic innovation in the city.
 
 When asked how the next generation can be helped to overcome the fear of failure, he said, “Stop doing projects for your kids, they will be innovative.”
 
 Krishnan said today failure is being considered as an important component of innovation. “There are global companies where you will hear employees telling you that one of their colleagues has failed in two of his/her three projects. Failure has become an achievement because it shows you tried to innovate,” he said.
 
 The IIM-Indore director was referring to the management jargon ‘Honest failure’ when an employee puts in all efforts yet fails. Later, the   to find reasons and analyse the process to come up with solutions.
 
 During his interaction, Krishnan was also asked what he thought about lack of innovations among Indian companies. “Most Indian companies are averse to investing enough in research and development. Secondly, owners need to be involved and have strong interest in technology. Unless, the owners are interested, you can’t expect much,” he said.
 
 Krishnan gave the example of pharmaceutical industry to explain how success is achieved through innovation. “The sample size has to be large enough to strike success. Some Indian companies did experimented but their success rate was low because at a time they tested only one or two molecules. As compared to this, a foreign brand would be investing in 100 to 200 molecules so that at least one or two of them are successful,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Krishnan shared his mantra of innovation and success through a detailed power point presentation. However, the presentation contained mostly industrial terms and management jargons that are commonly taught in B-schools and thus didn’t strike a chord with the audiences. Some of them were ‘8 steps to innovation excellence’, ‘community of practice’, ‘open innovation’, ‘fail fast and learn fast’, etc.
 
