He might be only eight films old as a leading man, but   has already developed a penchant for playing typically north Indian characters. From the Gurgaon brat in 'Aurangzeb' to the Bihari romeo in Half Girlfriend, with pit stops in UP ('Tevar') and Delhi ('2 States'), he has traversed much of north India through his characters. In his next - ' ' - Arjun takes it further, by playing not one, but two Punjabi characters. On a visit to the capital, Arjun talks to us about how Sikh characters in Hindi cinema have been relegated to comic relief, his belief that Delhi has lots of untold stories, and why Anil Kapoor wanting to work with him means bigger than any award.

 
 
 
  
 Bachpan mein jab aata tha, toh sabse mindblowing cheez thi this music shop in Khan Market. It used to have the latest music DVDs, VCDs, VHS, etc. I was obsessed with watching movies and listening to original soundtracks, toh main kood-kood ke jaata tha wahan. Khan Market used to be the hangout spot for me. One thing about Delhi that I always loved, was the massive bungalows with gardens. I could play cricket and run around with all my cousins. Coming to Delhi meant a giant family picnic. Then, the multiplex culture started here, in Saket, I think. I remember going to watch 'Mujhe Kuch Kehna Hai' in Saket. Being in Delhi and watching a film about Delhi was special. I could hear the 'oohs' and 'aahs', and 'Arrey yeh toh woh jagah hai' in the hall. People were fascinated with the fact ki yeh Dilli wali picture hai. I feel very comfortable here. Mujhe chahe Dilli ka kona-kona na pata ho, but there is never the fear ki gum ho jayenge. Ek familiarity hai, apnapan sa lagta hai Delhi aa kar.
 
  
 Haan, aajkal toh ulta hai. It's a little difficult to shoot in Mumbai nowadays. But beyond that, I think Delhi has a lot of stories waiting to be told, like Hindi Medium, for example. I’m sure those stories exist in Mumbai too, but the school divide and the aspiration of a top school is very predominantly Delhi. Of course, I'm making an assumption here. But culturally, I think Delhi has a lot more desi stories and potboilers. The kitsch desi culture is in today, be it a 'Band Baaja Baaraat', or 'Oye Lucky…' there is a desi touch to them. Maybe for the more urban film Mumbai still works better, but for a desi story, culturally, north India, and Delhi in particular, becomes the obvious choice. Sometimes, of course, stories need a certain city to be set in. For instance, 'Mubarakan' couldn't have been anywhere but Chandigarh.
 
  
  
 
  
 We needed a city that was Punjabi and yet very urban and cosmopolitan. Chandigarh is part of Punjab but it is a   so it has a flavour of its own. So that suited us. It's a beautiful city. We shot there quite a lot and such a clean, fresh city it is. You wake up in the morning and you feel like you’re not in India. That’s what I loved about Chandigarh. Bahut fresh feeling aati thi.
 
  
 Not that it's intentional, but it has just so happened ki pehli picture se hi mujhe mauka mila. Pehle UP ka launda tha, phir Bihari play kiya, Delhi ka ladka bana hoon, usse aage Gurgaon wala bhi play kiya hai. Right now, it's two Chandigarh boys. Honestly, I didn't plan on this, but maybe the directors find me suitable. I would love to play all kinds of roles and I'm sure, with time, I would get to. But abhi jo achha mil raha hai, why would I say no to that?
 
  
  Arjun Kapoor at our office in Noida, showing off some moves as part of the promotions of 'Mubarakan'. He plays a double role of two Punjabi brothers in the film (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
 In Hindi cinema, Sikh characters have largely been robust, front-footed. But, I wanted the contradiction that here is this big, burly Jatt but he is like a teddy bear. He is a regular guy and at the end of the day, he is not being that volatile or physically dominant stereotype. He wants to blend. He is also not the mumbling, bumbling fool. He is not a caricature. You can meet Charan in Chandigarh. I wanted him to be that relatable. If you went to Chandigarh, you would meet a Sikh boy who is that homely and down-to-earth, with a regular job and simple life. We had got the look right so we felt we didn’t need to impose him as a Sardar. The world around him is a regular Punjabi family, so why play up the madness and caricatureness in him too?
 
  
 Half the shooting schedule I spent talking to myself. Normally log pagal bulayenge agar apne aap se baat karoge, but yahan pe I was being paid good money to talk to myself. And that for me was very exciting. It was a challenge and I didn't know how it would look in the end. But technology has come such a long way. I had full confidence in our team and Anees sir. I had a blast doing it.
 
  
  
 
 
  
 Of course, there was a desire to be worthy of being in the same frame as Anil Kapoor. But I was always clear that I don't want to just work with him because I’m an actor and he is an actor. It needed to happen in the most organic and correct way possible. I feel extremely proud that this film came to me because he picked up the phone and said I have heard a script that you should consider and that he himself would be part of it. For me, that was my big 'Mubarakan' moment that Anil Kapoor wants me to be in the same film as him. You get awards, rewards, and love from the audience but at the end of the day someone like Anil Kapoor saying that he thought I should work with him made me so happy from within. It felt bigger. He is a professional actor and would want what is best for the film. He wouldn’t advise me that unless he thought I was worthy of being in the same frame as him. When I came to the set I knew that Anil chachu is not there to check if I’m capable or not. He already believes that I am.
 
 
 
  
 
 
