GURUGRAM: A   operating out of a spa in   in   was   by police, with the arrest of two women, who are natives of West Bengal, along with the manager, late on Tuesday evening. The trio was produced before a duty magistrate, who sent the manager to judicial custody and granted bail to the women.

 According to police, the raid was conducted by a team headed by inspector Sudip Kumar, SHO, DLF 2 police station, at 6.30pm, based on secret information. The sex racket had apparently been operating out of Avion Spa in CA market, reportedly owned by a city-based businessman. Police said they recovered a lot of condoms from the premises.
 
 “As per the secret information, we sent a fake customer into the spa. He gave Rs 800 to the manager for spa treatment, and then finalised a deal with one of the women for Rs 2,000. After receiving a signal from him, we conducted the raid and arrested the woman, along with another woman and the manager. We recovered the Rs 2,000 from the first woman, and the Rs 800 from the manager,” said inspector Kumar.
 
 “Two women, aged between 20 and 25 years, were arrested for alleged involvement in sex trade. They have been identified as natives of West Bengal, who lived as tenants in Gurgaon and Delhi. The manager has been identified as John, native of Kotputli in Jaipur district of Rajasthan. The manager was sent to judicial custody by the city court, while the women were granted bail,” added Kumar.
 
 An FIR under sections 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 of the Immoral Traffic Act, has been registered at DLF 2 police station. Further probe is on, and a hunt to nab the spa owner has begun, said police.
 
  has a history of such sex rackets being run under the garb of spas and massage parlours. On January 21 this year, Sector 29 police busted a racket operating out of a spa on the second floor of  , located on MG Road, and arrested 12 women and three customers. Earlier, on September 13 last year, police busted a sex racket being operated from a massage parlour in Sector 5. Subsequently, on September 26, another sex racket was busted during a raid on a spa in Sushant Lok. Nine people, including the spa manager and six women, were arrested. 
 
