Hyderabad: Global investment management firm   on Wednesday unveiled its first innovation hub in India at Hyderabad, where it houses close to 1,100 people.

 The company said it is the first global asset manager to set up an innovation hub in India and hopes to learn from its use and translate the findings around its global offices. In fact, it recently filed a patent on a novel global enterprise product built from its Hyderabad office.
 
 The hub, touted to be the first of its kind at Invesco and aimed at serving as a fun and collaborative work space for employees to help align strategies and ideas, will focus on tapping local talent in building innovative products for its global customer network. 
 
 “We are maturing our innovation pipeline and working closely with teams around the world to develop talent and keep our focus on continuously pivoting towards technology that will set us apart from our competitors and allow us to focus on delivering a superior investment experience for our clients across the globe,” Dave Dowsett, global head of strategy innovation and planning at Invesco told newspersons here.
 
 Though the hub,was opened up for employees in January 2017 to give them access to the latest technologies, Invesco said it is now also throwing it open to startups, especially those in the fintech space, to get some new talent into its ecosystem and accelerate innovation. “Previously, situations like this were unheard of in financial services companies because of a number of risks. Emerging technologies allow us to work creatively together with outside talent without compromising any of our data, integrity or security and it is also the pathway forward into the future as we explore a multitude of emerging tech such as blockchain, mixed reality, big data and machine learning,” said Invesco’s chief technology officer Donie Lochan. Though Lochan refused to divulge the quantum of investment made in setting up the hub, he said it can accommodate around 150 seats. He said the objectives behind opening up the innovation hub to the local startup community were threefold – “expanding awareness for the internal innovative culture and mindset of Invesco; engaging local startups to encourage strategic partnerships that will allow us to solve the problems our industry faces collectively and to offer the benefit of having an outsiders view, experience and perspective; energize talented individuals to join our team because they are interested and passionate about the ideas and technology we pursue.” The Atlanta-headquartered Invesco, which has offices in 20 countries and employs around 6800 people, had nearly $834.8 billion assets under management (AUM) as of March 31, 2017.
 
 
