AHMEDABAD/ VADODARA: To go with floods, disease and losses,   is also raising its ugly head in the city again. On Monday, the H1N1 virus claimed its twentieth victim in the city this year, a 78-year-old man from Ambawadi.

 In all,six people have died in July alone and 91 people have been infected by the deadly virus. 
 
  Across the state, the scene is not to encouraging either. 35 people have died in   and  , with hundreds affected this year. Eight people have died in Vadodara and two in Surat. 
 
 The sudden spate of swine flu cases is a grim reminder of the 2015 swine flu outbreak in the state. All district health authorities are on high alert even as flood relief operations continue.
 
 In Vadodara, 91 persons have tested positive for swine flu at SSG Hospital so far, including the five who tested positive on Monday. These cases include 58 persons from   ( ) limits. From January to April 2015 , Gujarat experienced its worst swine flu crisis, recording an alarming 6,561 positive cases and 439 deaths. Buried in the statistics was another distressing fact, a large section of these patients were children aged 0-9 years.
 
 At Civil Hospital, which has an advanced diagnostics laboratory for viral testing, 695 out of 3,242 H1N1 positive patients detected were children. 
 
 This was an alarming 21% of the total cases. Swine flu was found highly prevalent next only in the 30-39 (15%) and 50-59 age groups (16%).
 
 Experts say children are in the high risk category for swine flu and this data should be used for prevention and early diagnosis and treatment. 
 
 “Parents of children and doctors treating kids should suspect and rule out swine flu at an early stage,” said a senior state health official. Experts suggest poor food habits, decreasing physical activity and lack of nutritious food may be predisposing children to infections.
 
 “Swine flu is an airborne disease that most children contract at schools or play areas. While food is important to build a healthy immune system, proper hygiene practices and vaccination is advocated to prevent the disease,” the health official said.
 
 Rise in typhoid and cholera patients
 
 Ahmedabad: The recent spate of rains have also spiked the number of waterborne disease cases in the city. AMC’s health department claims that four cases of cholera was detected within the city. This clearly points to increasing pollution in drinking water supply. Since January this year, AMC-run hospitals alone reported 61 cases of cholera from across the city, while last year there were 102 cases. On Monday, a press release by the health department claimed that 336 typhoid cases were detected in the city taking the total number of typhoid cases to 1,600 since January. 
 
