NEW DELHI: Six top secretaries of the government of India will travel to Israel next week as part of an exercise to involve ministries concerned in agreements and   that are expected to be signed when PM   visits Israel in July. 

  Home secretary Rajiv Mehrishi, agriculture secretary S K Pattanayak, water secretaries Amarjeet Singh and Parameshwaran Iyer, secretary of department of industrial policy and promotion (DIPP) Ramesh Abhishek, secretary defence production A K Gupta and science & technology secretary   will travel to Israel with Union minister of state M J Akbar to engage with their Israeli counterparts on decisions that might emerge from the forthcoming visit. 
 
  This will be a change from the MEA-PMO led foreign visits that are the norm. "We need the executing ministries to take ownership of the projects and MoUs that are signed," said sources. The team will travel next week. 
 
 While defence and security have always been the bedrock of   relations, this time Modi's visit will be marked by a greater attention to water issues.
 
 Israel is already involved deeply in the agriculture sector and sources said more centres of excellence will be added. India and Israel signed a water agreement in November 2016 that was to focus on desalination. But sources in government say they plan to expand their canvas to include water conservation to using technology to generate and protect water sources.
 
  Modi will be the first Indian Prime Minister to go to Israel since diplomatic relations were established in 1992. Modi's visit has been widely anticipated. 
 
  Instead of making it a special visit, which it is, the government is making it part of the larger engagement of west Asia. 
 
 After the visit by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Modi will play host to Mahmoud Abbas, Palestinian President, expected to come calling in May, which follows the first joint commission meeting between India and Palestine. 
 
 Modi will not visit Palestine during his trip to Israel.
 
 
