BENGALURU:   will be entitled to honorary membership at two   within their constituencies, while MLAs will be given a choice to select the clubs of their choice. Ex-servicemen and meritorious athletes can also get membership to a  . 

 The House committee set up to go into the working of clubs finally submitted a report with these and other recommendations. The report was tabled in the House on Tuesday.
 
 The report suggested that a Bill should be brought in with the title 'The Karnataka Regulation of Entry to  , 2017', with the deputy commissioner as the competent authority to implement the clauses of the bill. The deputy commissioner will approve of the membership of ex-servicemen and identify meritorious sports-persons. 
 
 The Bill says membership to recreational clubs will be given to ex-servicemen who have received gallantry awards, and civil servants of and above such rank on the recommendation of the competent authority. For sportspersons, the criteria fixed for membership to a local recreational club of their choice will also depend on contribution at the national or international level.
 
 According to the Bill, the deputy commissioner will also have the authority to fix the membership fee for every club. The fee will depend on the facilities and service rendered by the club and other similar factors. Fee fixation will be done only after providing an opportunity to the club, seeking the fee they want to fix.
 
  SIX MONTHS IN JAIL, PLUS FINE 
 
 The penal provisions in the bill speak of sending office-bearers to six months in jail and/or a fine of Rs 1 lakh if the clubs do not provide membership to public representatives or disagree to the membership fee prescribed by the DC.
 
 The clubs can only approach the regional commissioner of the district with any appeal within 30 days, if they are aggrieved by the deputy commissioner's order. The regional commissioner's order will be final in all aspects, the Bill said. 
 
 The proposed bill speaks of temporary suspension of licenses of clubs up to 30 days, in case they are found to be committing illegal activities like gaming or gambling, as defined by other police acts. If the deputy commissioner finds the clubs have done away with such activities, or provide proof of such activity not being carried out, the suspension can be revoked.
 
 The Bill provides room for every tahsildar or police officer not below the rank of police inspector, to "enter without a warrant and inspect, search and seize in any public place or club which he has reason to believe is used for gambling or any other illegal activity or for committing any offence under this Act, and produce it before the competent court in accordance with the criminal procedure code".
 
 The illegal activities will be a cognizable offence, according to the Bill. 
 
