BHOPAL: Widening the reach of  , Madhya Pradesh chief minister   has mooted the idea of setting up a centre like 'neki ki deevar' (wall of kindness) to derive 'joy of giving' in all the 51 districts of the state. 

 "The centre should be called ' ', where the government through volunteers can provide help to the needy. And those, who wish to donate material can keep it at the place where those in need can get the same free of cost," said chief minister Chouhan during review meeting of happiness department.
 
 He said the concept of 'Arpan Anandam' is based on sharing. The person who helps and those who get the help, both derive a sense of joy. As a primary effort, centres like 'Arpan Anandam' should be established in all districts to transform the joy into activities like 'give and take', Chouhan suggested.
 
 ' ' (wall of kindness) is a citizen-driven initiative that was first started in Mashhad, a city in Iran with installation of few hooks and hangers on a wall called 'Deewar-e-Mehrbani' with words "If you don't need it, leave it. If you need it, take it," written next to it. The initiative soon became a viral movement and spread like wildfire across the globe with people painting walls and joining this humanitarian initiative. 
 
 In India, some metros have taken the initiative and the Happiness department is willing to follow it in each district. Officials say it will be initiated as a service with help of volunteers and all departments will play a major role in making it useful, beginning with the urban development department, which will provide a suitable location for the centre.
 
 The department has launched other initiatives, too. It has started another programme 'Anandam', which is based on the concept of "be the change you want to bring". The programme called ' ' is based on listening to one's inner voice, which comes from the heart.
 
 "Alp Viram is based on a meditation technique, which aims at hearing the inner voice to get guided. One can also decide resolution of life through this. The Happiness department has organised training programmes to three people in a district, who will guide others," Dubey said.
 
 Officials say the CM is of the idea that thinking with peaceful heart helps get new thoughts. "He called upon administrative officers to implement it in their lives and live a joyous life ," officials said. 
 
 The happiness department will also bring happiness quotient by the end of March, they said.
 
