CHENNAI: It was a toss-up between   and   for a place in the XI during the third Test against Australia in Perth in 2012. Skipper   decided to back a misfiring young Kohli, which was revealed by   during his commentary stint in Nov 2016. Kohli went on to score 44 & 75 in that Test and followed it up with his maiden Test hundred in Adelaide. "The selectors wanted to play Rohit instead of Kohli at Perth in 2012. I was vice-captain and Dhoni was leading the team, and we decided that we have to back Kohli. The rest is history," Sehwag said.

 It's been five years since then and Dhoni, for the first time in a long time, will be playing international cricket under somebody else. He quit Test cricket when he was the captain in late 2014 and Kohli took over. Dhoni refused to speak about his decision to quit midway through a series and that sparked a lot of speculation about the equation between the Jharkhand man and Kohli.
 
 But those who have seen Kohli and Dhoni work together insist the transition from Dhoni to Kohli in limited-overs cricket will be smooth.
 
 "Whatever has been written or spoken about possible rifts in the team since Dhoni quit Tests is false. Kohli and Dhoni share a good camaraderie. They may not be going out for dinner together, but they are quite friendly in the dressing room. The team always comes first for Dhoni, it doesn't matter who the captain is," a member of the team who has seen the two working together for three years, told TOI.
 
 Even after they were back in the hotel at the end of the day's play, Kohli would often go to Dhoni's room asking for advice on his game. "They share a comfortable working relationship. And during team meetings, it's usually Kohli and Ashwin who give a lot of suggestions. Dhoni used to listen to them carefully," the source added.
 
 The fact that Dhoni has been captain for so long and understands how the team works is going to make things better for Kohli. "The way MS is, he will suggest certain things for Kohli but won't interfere. And he won't allow egos to come in between either, he is just not the type," the source added.
 
 There's another area where Dhoni and Kohli are invariably on the same page - fitness. They have their own ways, but the two are possibly the fittest players in the team. Dhoni used to be a natural who started working extremely hard as he reached his mid-30s. Kohli on the other hand figured out very early the importance of being super-fit and spends a lot of time in the gym.
 
 "The fact that Dhoni retired from Tests in 2014 made him more responsible about his fitness. Dhoni is like an individual sport player when it comes to fitness now, so he will easily match Kohli's expectations for at least 2-3 years," former Team India trainer   told TOI.
 
 In fact, the trainer feels that Kohli is taking forward the fitness culture. "They may not be training together or interacting a lot about diet or fitness - because their technical necessities are different - but they are invariably on the same page when it comes to fitness ideas," Ramji added.
 
