NEW DELHI: Incidents like the   'hate crime', in which two Indians were attacked, one fatally, should "outrage and disgust all Americans", said   spokesman Sean   today.

 "...it's something that I think all Americans should be outraged and disgusted by - and stand up for the principles that unite us (the US), and that's what the President spoke so eloquently about during his joint address, and made it very clear that while certain policies may divide us as individuals, there are certain principles that can unite," Spicer said. 
 
 Spicer was referring to 
  . Since then, two more incidents of attacks against Indians - one fatal - have been reported from the US. 
 
 The first one, the Kansas incident, occurred on February 22 when a 
  and wounded another Indian Alok Madasani. On March 2, a 43-year-old Indian-origin store owner in South Carolina was shot dead outside his home in a suspected hate crime. Then on March 4, Deep Rai, a Sikh man in Seattle was shot at. His assailant reportedly told him to "go back to your own country."
 
 Spicer said the   administration believes the way to stem such crimes is by continuing to "call them out" and by engaging with law enforcement.
 
 "I think we've got to continue to call it out, we've got to continue to root it out, we've got to continue to engage law enforcement, whatever is the applicable level of law enforcement depending on the event," Spicer said.
 
 The US President condemned the Kansas attack a week after it occurred, during his address to Congress last week
 
 "Recent threats targeting Jewish Community Centers and vandalism of Jewish cemeteries, as well as last week's shooting in Kansas City, remind us that while we may be a nation divided on policies, we are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil in all its forms. They (racial and religious attacks) have no place in our country, and we will continue to make that clear," Trump said last week. 
 
 On a different note, White House spokesman Spicer also said that 
  . Spicer didn't go into specifics.
 
 "I think he (Trump) has talked about (this) during the campaign and the transition, (about) establishing a deeper relationship with Prime Minister Modi and U.S.-India and businesses. And I think as we move forward in terms of our foreign policy, we'll have further updates on that. But as you know very well, he spoke very clearly and frequently about the relationship that we have and hope to continue to grow with India," Spicer said at the press briefing. 
 
 
