NEW DELHI: Samajwadi Party-led efforts at an alliance in Uttar Pradesh picked up pace with Congress inching closer to a respectable tally to contest and announcing that the tie-up would be public in 48 hours.

 Sources said SP has agreed to leave 90 seats for Congress and last-minute haggling is on, with a tally between 97-103 being talked about. Ajit Singh’s RLD has laid claim to 30 seats but could settle for 18-20.
 
 AICC general secretary Ghulam Nabi Azad formally announced the alliance by saying, “I am confident that SP-Congress tie-up will form the next government in UP.” He said the nitty-gritty of the alliance would be decided in a day or two, echoing chief minister   who made a similar remark in Lucknow.
 
 There is a sense of urgency surrounding the tie-up given that the anxious partners got a green signal after the EC order on Monday, barely a day before the election process for the first phase got underway.
 
 With the announcement likely to be made in Lucknow by Thursday, the long election will feature a joint campaign by Akhilesh Yadav and  . Sources said the involved parties are focussing on the first phase of polling in western UP which is the traditional bastion of RLD.
 
 An understanding has been hammered out whereby Congress will get to contest urban seats because of its appeal among the middle classes and upper castes while Ajit Singh will take the rural pockets with Jat population. SP is weak in this belt.
 
 An AICC panel started screening aspirants on Tuesday. Racing against time, sources said the party could announce the names in batches instead of rushing through all in one go.
 
 Meanwhile, Akhilesh called up JD(U) veteran Sharad Yadav on Tuesday morning. While the conversation was to seek the senior leader’s blessings, it is felt JD(U) could be a bit player in the alliance. JD(U) leader KC Tyagi said, “If there is any call to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar for a ‘mahagathbandhan’ in UP, we will whole-heartedly support it.”
 
 A bunch of seats could be kept aside to accommodate small players like JD(U) and the Apna Dal faction headed by the estranged mother of Union minister Anupriya Patel. Inclusion of Muslim outfit Peace Party and a Nishad outfit of eastern UP is also being considered. Amid speculation, the clearest hint of a grand alliance came at the ‘Jan Vedana Sammelan’ last week when, responding to calls of anxious UP delegates, Rahul said, “UP me maza aayega.”
 
 By all indications, Congress leaders appear content with the deal they are getting.
 
 If the Congress tally appears stretched in contrast to its strength on the ground, a few Samajwadi netas may contest on the Congress symbol.
 
 
