CHENNAI: Three months ago, senior surgeons from city-based Adyar   Institute met Japanese doctors at an international medical conference and learned how they treated cancerous bone tumours without removing the bone from the body. Last week, doctors here attempted the procedure ‘pedicle cryotherapy’ on a teenager for quicker recovery and better outcome.

 On Tuesday, nearly four days after the surgery, doctors said the patient had responded well and was likely to be discharged soon. “The surgery on the right leg looks similar to that of a healing fracture now,” said Dr   Raja, who heads the musculoskeletal oncology department at the institute.
 
 Osteosarcoma, or osteogenic sarcoma, is a type of cancer that starts in the bones. According to Chennai Metropolitan Tumour Registry, nearly 1.4% of all cancers between 1998 and 2013 in the city were bone cancers. During this period, nearly 1,000 were treated for osteosarcoma. Most of them underwent a complex limb salvage surgery, where surgeons remove the entire tumour and leave out the nearby tendons, nerves, and blood vessels retain the limb’s function and appearance.
 
 A section of the bone is removed along with the tumour. The bone is then replaced with a bone graft (piece of bone from another part of the body or from another person) or with an internal prosthesis (a man-made device used to replace part or all of a bone) made of metal and other material.
 
 “This time, we decided we would not do it the conventional way because we wanted to minimise chances of infections and reduce chances of a repeat surgery or amputation,” said Dr Anand.
 
 Like the Japanese, surgeons at   decided to cut one side of the bone (osteotomy), remove the tumour, rotate and freeze the lesion in liquid nitrogen for 20 minutes before connecting the cut bone and closing up the site. “This way the healing time is fast and chances of infection are low,” he said.
 
 The surgery is likely to cost patients lesser as doctors will not use an implant, which will cost at least Rs 50,000. The cost of treating the bone with liquid nitrogen will not exceed Rs 7,000. “We always believe technology and innovations are useful only when they are accessible and affordable. I’m happy that we are able to use a Japanese innovation to make treatment affordable,” said cancer institute chairman Dr V Shanta.
 
 The procedure, however, can’t be used on all patients. “If the tumour is on or close to the joint, we will have to replace the bone,” said Dr Anand. “But if it is elsewhere this can be extremely effective,” he said.
 
