KOLKATA: A 72-year-old resident of Phoolbagan has moved Calcutta high court, praying for   granted to his son by the additional chief judicial magistrate of Barrackpore on February 23. Netai Chandra Deb had lodged a complaint against his son Kaushik at Belgharia police station on February 18, accusing him of  ,   and  . Deb had alleged that Kaushik and two others stole more than Rs 7 lakh that belonged to him. Justice Joymalya Bagchi of Calcutta high court heard the matter on Friday and directed the state to produce the case diary.

 Deb set up a sole proprietorship firm —   — in Baranagar in 1968. Later, his brother and nephew also started working in the firm engaged in bulk and package handling, conveyor systems and spare parts. Between 1976 and 1981, the company was reconstituted into a partnership firm and his brother became a partner in it.
 
 In 2000, Deb suffered a heart attack and brain stroke. His health deteriorated after this and between 2009 and 2011, he suffered further heart attacks and brain strokes. The situation was such that he could not move without the help of an assistant. Soon, he handed over important documents, blank cheques and signed blank judicial papers to his brother for smooth operations of the firm.
 
 “His brother had other thoughts and in pursuance of such illegal intention left no stone unturned to take over the entire partnership. In pursuance of such illegal intention and with active connivance of his son and Kaushik, the firm was reconstituted with my client holding 35%, his brother 25% and his nephew and son holding 20% shares each in it. Consequently, Deb realized that his son was also part of the said conspiracy.
 
 The petitioner got the said partnership deed checked by his lawyer subsequent to the signing of the same, since he suspected foul play and to his dismay was fully informed that as per clause 8 of the deed upon his death his legal heirs would be deprived save for Kaushik,” Deb’s counsel Phiroze Edulji submitted before Justice Bagchi.
 
 Deb then dragged himself to the company’s office and accosted his brother, nephew and son. It was submitted in court that not only did the three misbehave with him and ask him to give up his share, they forced him to sign on seven blank cheques. Later, his wife Monika received a call from the manager of the Bank of Baroda branch in Baranagar, informing her that Rs 7,39,000 had been withdrawn from their joint account (Deb and Monika) using the cheques. It was withdrawn between June 6 and August 26, 2016. 
 
 “Though my client made several submissions to oppose the accused’s bail prayer, none of it was recorded in order sheet,” Edulji submitted.
 
 
