JAIPUR: Following the fear unleashed by cow vigilante groups, the state’s transporters from the minority community are refusing to transport   both within Rajasthan and to others states.

 Animals are taken from the state to slaughterhouses in   and Delhi every day via National Highway 8. The killing of   by ‘gau rakshaks’ while   cows at   has turned out to be the last straw on the camel’s back.
 
 The fear among drivers and traders is so high that none of them were even ready to speak on record or give a statement. “My Muslim drivers have refused to ferry any animal to slaughterhouses or ‘mandi’ for sale. The fear is so high that they are ready to return the advance paid to them. We are looking for drivers from other communities who can ferry animals for slaughter. This too appears to be difficult,” said a transporter who has 20 trucks ferrying animals.
 
 The drivers say that even they are being harassed by vigilantes even when they transport goats. “Earlier, I used to make three trips to Delhi every week. Now, I have asked my owner to change my duty schedule,” said a driver requesting anonymity.
 
 The transporters say that non-Muslim drivers are also hesitating to take buffaloes and goats. The situation has become worse since Monday as they are finding it difficult to ferry animals to other states. Some are keeping away from transporting animals. “This has become terrible. We have to pay bribes to the police and in some cases to vigilante groups for safe passage,” said another transporter.
 
 The ‘mandis’ in Jaipur, Tonk, Nasirabad (Ajmer), Sikar and Nagaur have fewer buyers as supplies have been hit.
 
 The buyers from Meo region have stopped coming altogether since the Pehlu Khan incident.
 
 Business of traditional communities, including both Hindus and Muslims, has been severely affected. Most of the sellers are Hindu farmers and Muslims butchers or agents. “Since ages, we have been buying buffaloes and, all of a sudden, we cannot do our business. We are not trained to do anything else. Is the government listening,” asked  , a wholesale meat seller.
 
