PUNE: The Bombay high court has granted a conditional bail to one of the accused involved in an alleged cheating and fraud case worth Rs 72 crore lodged by windmill energy giant Suzlon in September 2009. 

 The company had lodged an FIR with   police against two of its former employees, who allegedly colluded with four aides to open fictitious companies for exporting goods in Suzlon's name and pocketing the shipment bills. The   (CBI) took over the investigations in 2012 as the alleged offence occurred outside India too.
 
 Girvar Singh Ashiya, one of the accused, was arrested by CBI last year on May 29 at Mumbai airport where he was about to board a flight to Doha. He was since in jail and moved the bail plea. The CBI claimed that over Rs 1.21 crore of the total fraud money was deposited in Ashiya's bank account. Ashiya also prepared bogus invoices and forged invoices in the name of Suzlon, the agency claimed.
 
 In his bail plea, Ashiya argued that he was innocent. He said he has been in prison since May last year and the police have impounded his passport. He submitted his address in Rajasthan, which the prosecution confirmed as correct during hearing of the plea.
 
 Justice   of the high court cited the FIR and observed, "The total fraud is of Rs 72 crore approximately and the liability of the fraud against the accused is claimed by the prosecution to be Rs 1.21 crore approximately. He submitted that further investigation is going on and the applicant/accused is in prison since May last year. Considering the submissions and facts of the case, I am inclined to grant bail to the applicant/accused."
 
  The case 
 
 According to the complaint lodged by Suzlon, the fraud occurred between March 2006 and October 2008 when two of its officials, who were then looking after the supply management, manufacturing and logistics, at its subsidiary   (SECL), would hire ships for exporting windmills and allied products to several countries.
 
 The duo allegedly colluded with four others and started exporting goods of other manufacturers along with Suzlon's shipments. After delivery, the ships would return empty. The suspects then started importing goods to India allegedly using Suzlon's name. For this, they started four fictitious firms Bluewind Enterprises Ltd, S S Oceanwind Shipping Pvt Ltd, BIP Holding Ltd and   and would allegedly ask the exporters to deposit rent for the shipment in the name of these companies. 
 
