CHANDIGARH: In a significant development, just four days ahead of the massive rally announced by members of the Jat community, in Delhi to push for their demand for reservation in jobs and educational institutes, the   government on Thursday signalled that the 47-day protest may come to an end on Friday.

 Sources in the state, however, confirmed that a final announcement was expected to be made after a meeting of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and representatives of the Jat community at   in New Delhi on Friday. Haryana education minister Ram Bilas Sharma, who led the government panel in meeting with a delegation of Jat leaders steered by   (AIJASS) president Yashpal Malik in   on Thursday, said the talks were positive. 
 
 “I have been saying that Jats are members of our family, and we remained successful in sorting out all the issues but outcome of the meeting would be announced in a joint statement in Delhi,” he said.
 
 Malik confirmed that the meeting was positive. “We have almost reached a solution and today’s discussion would be conveyed to the CM, who will take a final call and announce (decision) to the press on Friday afternoon,” Malik claimed.
 
 The Haryana government had constituted a high-level three-member committee under the chairmanship of Sharma for holding talks on Jat reservation issue. Two other members included minister of state for social justice and empowerment Krishan Kumar Bedi and chief parliamentary secretary Kamal Gupta.
 
 AIJASS, which is spearheading the Jat quota stir, had given a call for the march to Delhi on March 20 to gherao (besiege) the parliament and to hold dharnas on the Delhi border, blocking all highways, to press for the demands for reservation. As a preventive measure, the Delhi government had already imposed ban on the entry of tractor-trailers and elaborate arrangements were made to maintain law and order in Haryana.
 
 As many as 49 companies of the armed forces reached the state and a total of 101 companies were deputed in Haryana to maintain the law and order.
 
 The community has been protesting peacefully since January 29 for seven demands, which include the other backward classes quota for the Jats at the Centre, withdrawal of cases against youths arrested during February 2016 violence in Haryana and jobs to families of those killed during agitation.
 
 
