GUWAHATI: The site of the proposed   is going to be designed by the   ( ) which is waiting for the designated land to be handed over to it by the state government. 

 The 14,000 square meter area on the Sonapur Hills is currently being developed by the state government before installation of state-of-the-art facilities begin.
 
 Sources in the state science and technology department said the   government is aiming for the completion of the 1.83-kilometre-long boundary wall and the approach road to the site by March next year. Completion of the basic infrastructure of the site is crucial as the NCSM is currently waiting for land transfer in order to accomplish the main project. 
 
 The upcoming project at Nazirakhat near Sonapur on the outskirts of the city is now awaiting a push from the Assam government which will hand over the developed plot of land to the NCSM. The proposed science city in Kamrup (Metro) district is going to be the fourth of its kind in the country after the ones at Kolkata, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) and Kapurthala (Punjab). Post-inauguration, the NCSM will hand over the project to the state government which will look after it. An estimated cost of Rs 110 crore has been earmarked for it.
 
 "It has been decided that removal of vegetation or greenery will be done to a very minimum extent for the construction of this project. The Science City will be constructed with a view of the natural beauty of the location. We are hopeful that the science city here is going to be even more gorgeous than the Science City of Kolkata due to its location on top of a hillock," said Basudev Mandal, project coordinator at Regional Science Centre, Guwahati.
 
 "The science centre complex comprising a planetarium, the main exhibition hall, the dome, huge aquariums with butterfly corridors, the human evolution park and bio-park will turn the Guwahati Science City into a centre of attraction for science enthusiasts as well as tourists," said Mandal.
 
 The Science City will be a place to gather rare experiences. "In the butterfly corridor, visitors will come across swarms of real butterflies. Similarly, the human evolution park will depict the evolution of human beings through ages," Mandal added.
 
 
