MUMBAI:   have started soaring after the brief chill which Mumbaikars enjoyed at the beginning of the month. On Monday, the city recorded its   for January since 2010. However, weathermen said it no way meant that the winter was over.

 Maximum temperature recorded by the  's Santacruz observatory on January 23 was 36 degrees Celsius, which was 5.4 degrees above normal. At the IMD's Colaba observatory , maximum temperature recorded was 35.7 degrees Celsius, which was 6.2 degrees above normal. Incidentally, last January was hotter, with the maximum temperature at 37.3 degrees Celsius. King's Circle resident Nikhil Desai said the day time is very uncomfortable owing to the rise in temperatures. “It does not feel like January due to the high temperatures. However, it is still cool at night which has been a relief,“ said Desai.
 
 Explaining the reason for the present rise in temperatures, weathermen said there are easterly winds from early morning to afternoon which are seen to be opposing the sea bree ze. “The easterlies are very strong, so the sea breeze sets in late due to which maximum temperatures are on the rise.This is however typical Mumbai weather and we can't say the winter is over yet. Statistically, over the past few years, spells of winter have been witnessed in February as well,“ said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD. The all-time high for January in Mumbai was recorded at 37.4 degrees Celsius, on January 16, 2006.
 
 Meanwhile, minimum temperatures, which till January 11hovered around 12 degrees Celsius, has also gone up. Minimum recorded on Monday by the IMD Colaba observatory was 21.5 degrees Celsius while at Santacruz it was 18.4 degrees Celsius.
 
 Trapped radiation raising temperature
 
 Warmer winter temperatures are likely in the country till early February this year. The   has forecast normal to above normal winter temperatures for most parts of the country.
 
 PK Nandankar, head of the weather forecasting division of IMD, said, “The trapped radiation is increasing temperatures.“ 
 
