MUMBAI: In one of its sternest actions against encroachments, the   has freed a half-acre plot at Chakala, Andheri, which was occupied for over a decade. Upon clearing the place, civic officials found a road there.

 Two months ago,   officials realised that at the spot, which is at the junction of the Andheri-Kurla and Andheri-Ghatkopar roads, second-hand cars were being sold. The plot is exactly below   and can be seen clearly from an  . Civic officials asked for the official documents of the “property“, but got nothing concrete in return. An official said, “While carrying out our regular demolitions against unauthorized structures, we came across this property . We initially asked those managing the space for property documents. We then checked with the BMC's building proposal department to find if any permission had been issued, and found that the space had been encroached in 2005. It is prime space. We then began action to reclaim the plot.The matter reached the city civil court, but was ruled in our favour. We evaluated the plot and found it to be worth Rs 20 crore.“
 
 The BMC found that a concrete platform had been erected at the place. While demolishing it, it found that the platform had been built on a road and a footpath. Devendra Kumar Jain, assistant municipal commissioner, K-East ward, said, “We now have plans to create a green traffic island there and also make a free left turn so that motorists can easily navigate from the AndheriGhatkopar road to the Andheri-Kurla road.“
 
 Velocity Cars, which was utilizing the space, said it had a lease agreement for it.Owner Karan Nagpal said, “We had filed a suit in the city civil court to not allow any action without following the due process of law, but before that, the BMC carried out demolitions, without notice. The plot belonged to a housing society and we were paying them lease rent.“
 
 The BMC has decided to levy costs from Nagpal, who it says was an illegal occupant.A civic official said, “We plan to charge Rs 1 lakh a month since the time the space was being utilized. We are yet to calculate the total cost.“
 
 TIMES VIEW:
 
 The civic body's action against encroachers deserves praise.But BMC needs to ensure vigilance so that the situation on the ground does not revert back to its original state.There are numerous instances of squatters being removed and then making a comeback soon afterwards, thus raising doubts about the motive behind the entire exercise. Since open spaces in the city are shrinking, BMC should redouble its efforts to protect them from land-grabbers.
 
