When the players of the Spain under-17 team trot on to the   in Kochi on October 7 for their opening Group D encounter against Brazil, they will be well aware of the expectations from them at the   under-17 World Cup.

 Coming into the tournament after winning the 2017 European Under-17 title in May, they are definitely one of the favourites and will be hoping to lift the world crown - something the country has failed to do before, having finished runners-up on three occasions (1991, 2003 and 2007).
 
 The players are determined to break that hoodoo. "The night after we won the European Championships, I was already dreaming of winning the World Cup," Spain under-17 team's striker Abel Ruiz told FIFA.com in an interview last August.
 
 Ruiz, who plays for   B team and is the joint all-time leading scorer at European Under-17 meets with eight goals, is definitely one of the most prominent names in the Santiago Denia-coached side. Forward Ferran Torres, midfielder Antonio Blanco and defenders  , Victor Chust and Ruiz's La Masia roommate, Mateu Morey, are other key players of the squad.
 
 In the same interview to FIFA.com, Morey gave a peek into the team's desire to lift the trophy in India when he revealed that the squad's WhatsApp group's name has been changed from ' ' to 'Loading La India 50 per cent'.
 
 The expectations from the Spain team will be all the more because of what their senior team has achieved in the last decade. Spain have enticed with their possession-based, attractive, elegant and free-flowing style and won two European Championships (2008 and 2012) on either side of the World Cup title in South Africa in 2010.
 
 The members of the Spain's current under-17 side were around 10 years old when Spain won the World Cup and have grown up watching the likes of  , Andres Iniesta, Iker Casillas, Carles Puyol, Sergio Ramos, David Villa rule world football. It is therefore quite obvious that these young minds and hearts must have been greatly influenced by the country's footballing legends. Also, the fact that many of these Spain's greats made their first impression at Fifa under-17 World Cups will surely bear on the youngsters.
 
 "I think without a doubt they have a big influence on these young players. Winning a World Cup is no small feat and the Spain team inspired a generation by winning two Euros and the World Cup. Football has always been popular in Spain but the fever of football picks up even more when the nation wins something," says head coach of Indian Super League side FC Goa Sergio Lobera, who had managed youth teams and Barcelona C side in his decade-long association with the Catalan giants.
 
 Spain have continued to produce top-quality players over the years and members of this Spain under-17 side, which consists of players from clubs like Barcelona, Real Madrid, Villarreal, Valencia, Sevilla and Malaga, are no exceptions. Lobera offers an insight into Spain's success in youth development.
 
 "A lot of importance in Spain is given to the technical abilities of the players and honing those skills rather than relying solely on developing physical skills. That is why you see so many technically skilled players from Spain. Another key aspect is the number of top-quality coaches in Spain. A lot of people who have an interest go and do their licenses and the ratio of coaches to players is very good," he opines.
 
 Spain are in an interesting group with powerhouse Brazil, Niger and Korea DPR.
 
 
 
 
 Spain have reached the final the most times without winning the title, having finished runners-up three times in 1991, 2003 and 2007 after defeats to Ghana, Brazil and Nigeria respectively. Spain hold the record for the biggest winning margin in the tournament's history, thanks to their 13-0 win over New Zealand in 1997.
 
