BENGALURU:   on Wednesday launched a first of-its-kind innovation hub in Bengaluru. The facility, in many ways, reflects the confidence of a company that has become the most successful in the IT services business today, having transitioned to the requirements of the new digital technologies that have buffeted the industry in recent times.

 In the 10-floor, 4.4 lakh square feet facility, there are wall-sized panoramic, interactive digital screens; large, open work areas; walls with vibrant colours; casual seating spaces -the kind that one sees in large technology product companies.
 
 The facility is populated with talent (about 4,000 peo ple) and tools in the most happening digital areas, including artificial intelligence, blockchain, security , automation, cloud, as also in a variety of industry areas, such as banking, telecom and healthcare. All of this makes for a great innovation envi ronment. But the key to the facility, say Accenture executives, is its ability to showcase the best of technologies to a customer, and conceptualize, develop and deliver mature solutions to their problems in a matter of days, instead of the weeks and months traditionally required.
 
 Accenture says it developed an augmented reality virtual reality (ARVR) solution for cricket for an Australian sporting company in just five days. The solution, which required a deep understanding of things, like the physics of ball movements, was designed to help players and coaches understand weaknesses in the players, and also for fans to know how it feels to have, say,   bowling to them. "We are also introducing haptic feedback, so you can feel the ball on the bat," an executive involved in the project said.
 
 The facility is the first such for the $33-billion IT consulting and outsourcing company. “We set it up in Bengaluru because this is where we see the maximum number of client visits in Accenture's global operations,“  , senior managing director of  , told TOI. Over 140,000, or about a third, of Accenture's 411,000 employees are in India.
 
 The launch of the innovation hub saw the presence of a number of global executives, including Bhaskar Ghosh, group chief executive of technology services; Paul Daugherty , chief technology and innovation officer; Gianfranco Casati, group chief executive of growth markets; and Omar Abbosh, chief strategy officer. “There's a lot more work coming to the IT services industry, but a lot of the work is new kinds of work,“ Ghosh said, indicating why it has become necessary for the industry to work differently, far more innovatively.
 
 Ghosh, who is also a member of Accenture's global management committee, said the nature of people, process and technology required have changed. “We need automation masters, ethical hackers, neural scientists, data scientists, more PhDs, people with deep industry and technology skills,“ he said. Accenture has reskilled a large propor tion of its employees, and made 37 acquisitions since the beginning of 2016 to strengthen its capabilities in the new digital areas. Today , about 50% of its revenues comes from the new digital, cloud, and security services spaces, and this space is growing at strong double digits. Many of its peers, including the big Indian IT services companies, are seen to be making the transition far more slowly , and their overall growth rates are slowing.
 
 Sekhar said an innovation summit that Accenture started in India in 2015 had 2,000 ideas coming in that year, with 6,000 employees participating; last year saw the number of ideas rise to 4,500 and the number of participants to 12,000; this year saw as many as 13,000 ideas from over 40,000 participants. “Our patent filing numbers have risen dramatically in the past three years."
 
