A couple of weeks ago, a new animal torture video made its way into social media. It captured in hazy, pixelated sequence, a dog being beaten to death. Watching it about 25 times in a loop, volume on full, left animal activist and final year engineering student P Ashwath with extremely tightened muscles around his head, a sore neck, and furious.

 "It's a part of the job and is the drill with every video of animal torture that makes its way into my Facebook timeline or WhatsApp. I have to play it over and over, until I can gather all the evidence I see and hear," he says.
 
 Last year, Ashwath and his team rescued a dog that had been cut on its leg and the genitals, but they couldn't get the perpetrator arrested, "because the animal had been injured, but it wasn't dead. And under IPC sections 428 and 429, maiming an animal will cost you no more than '50," he says. "Feeble animal protection laws and a disinterested police investigation are an animal activist's nightmare. They cause immense hopelessness in the system and result in years of stress."
 
 While decades of fighting such a system can yield real breakthroughs, it almost always comes at a cost. Greater Chennai Corporation, which had been culling close to 20,000 dogs annually since 1932, was forced to stop after Shiranee Pereira, founder of People For Animals (PFA)'s two-year-long battle against it.
 
 "Those years were nothing short of horrifying. Many times what sapped my strength was the barefaced discouragement from the lower-rung Corporation officials, who'd tell me every day that I was fighting a lost battle. Until one day when we convinced the special officer to accompany us, and after finding a mound of dead puppies who had been electrocuted, he ordered the place to be shut down. This was in 1995," says Pereira. The same chamber has now been converted into a surgery room for the PFA.
 
 But Pereira's struggle is far from over.   from horrid circumstances, particularly the laboratory, doggedly following up on cases and putting maimed animals down - all this has landed her with chronic stress, migraine and at times, sleeplessness.
 
 "My fight has been against the use of animals in research and today, after all that work, we have a national policy - along with a rehabilitative policy - that limits the use of dogs in testing," says Pereira. "I've been doing this for 22 years and to me, this is a mission. I'm not looking for solace outside it. But when you're an activist and animal lover, the pain of watching suffering animals every day is unavoidable. It is the kind of stress that also keeps many   from getting into activism."
 
 In 2015, a mental health survey of US veterinarians by the American Veterinary Medical Association found that they were likely to suffer from psychiatric disorders, experience bouts of depression, and have suicidal thoughts. It also suggested that more than one in six might have contemplated suicide since graduation.
 
 While the reasons have been attributed to several factors relevant to that country, Chennai-based psychologist Abilasha believes that, in India, the society's tendency to trivialise the work of animal welfare professionals significantly makes them prone to depression.
 
 "Animal welfare volunteers or even veterinarians here are not well-paid. The lack of a support system, at home and outside, due to the way society perceives their work makes their journey a lonely one," she says. "Ironically, it is altruistic work, which should make the society around them proud, and them, happy."
 
 Pereira says activists too need to follow a healthy routine - take time away from work and do something else that completely involves them. "Personally, I draw solace from playing the keyboard and making videos of my animals, so that they remain etched in my memory," she says.
 
 But, for an animal activist, it is all about the joy of watching their rescues survive and wake up to a new day. "When I lose an animal it is depressing, but when I save an animal, it covers that loss. Our success rates are higher than our losses, and this is what keeps me going," says Dawn Williams, general manager,  .
 
