Is there anything that he doesn't excel in? Director, scriptwriter, actor and singer '   is known for breaking new grounds with every project. 

  The last year saw his directorial Jacobinte Swargarajyam sweeping the box-office while he bank rolled his assistant's movie, Aanandam.
  For Vineeth, 2017 begins with Aby, a film which has been in the news from the day of its announcement! In a candid chat Mollywood's man with a Midas touch talks to us about all of these and more'
 
 
 
 Srikant ettan (Srikant Murali) and Santhosh Echikkanam narrated the story of Aby to me about two- and-a-half years back. Coincidentally, I was actually thinking of making a movie about a guy who desires to fly. And when the director and scriptwriter came up with the same thought I decided to say yes, without thinking twice.
 There have been a lot of controversies surrounding Aby and Prithviraj's Vimanam'
  I am clear about how Aby has been conceived and I am very well aware that nothing unethical has happened behind it. So, I have no prick of conscience to do the role. 
 
 
 
 Aby is totally different from the roles I have essayed so far. In Kunjiramayanam and Oru Vadakkan Selfie I had exaggerated my performance. In Chappa Kurishu, it was subtle acting. However, in every character I portrayed, there was a bit of me. But Aby wanted me to be a totally different person.
 Before every shot I used to tell myself that I am not Vineeth but Aby. People change as they grow but their basic character remain unchanged. I had to bring out all the four stages of Aby retaining the essence of his basic character throughout. It was quite a challenge. 
 
 
 
 No. When I act I follow my director's vision. I contribute only if I feel like giving some inputs to my acting. If the director is fine with my suggestions, I will add them. Regarding the script, I choose a movie only if its script is interesting. So I go ahead trusting the director. 
 
 
  
 I act again and again with a hope that one day, I will become good at it (laughs). I am well aware that I am not a good actor. But I love cinema and I am passionate about it. I am someone who came into films out of my love for it. So while I am on a break from direction and when good scripts come to me, I don't feel like missing those chances to work with great directors and teams. 
 
 
 
 I think I am getting more credits than I deserve. When we work together in a film the team naturally becomes very close. So, by the end of a project, we would have automatically become good companions. And when one among the crew becomes independent, we will all wish him success. Also, we all consider it as our own project and work together.
 
 
 
 I have committed to a few acting projects. I will turn to direction only after finishing all those. I guess, this year I will not be thinking of direction.
 Sathyan Anthikkad's Dulquer movie Jomonte Suvisheshangal was trolled as a DQ version of your film, Jacobinte Swargarajyam'
 Jomonte Suvisheshangal was scripted even before Jacobinte' was released. I know it because I am very close to the scriptwriter Iqbalikka (Iqbal Kuttipuram). Soon after Jacobinte' was released he narrated the entire script and all I felt was that it has a common thread. Even when I watched the film I did not find any similarities with my movie. In fact, I really enjoyed watching the film, especially the Dulquer-Mukeshettan combination. I am a fan of dad-son stories. I really loved the movie. 
 
 
 
 Yes, yes (excitedly) we are all looking forward for it. He is not my little brother anymore, he is all grown up (smiles) 
 
 
 
 Yes, he is planning to. Most probably it will happen this year. 
 
 
 
 I am sure I will be part of the discussions on it. But I haven't listened to the script yet and I am eagerly waiting for it. He said he will narrate it to me next month.
 
