NEW DELHI: A suddenly vulnerable Odisha CM   has encouraged   to look to exploit fissures in his party,  , and consolidate the political gains it has made in the recent rural civic body elections where its vote share jumped from 18% to 33% over the previous panchayat polls.

 The open skirmishing between BJD MP Baijayant Panda and MP Tathagatha   has exposed fault lines in the party. The pre-emptive strike by Satpathy, who tweeted that there were moves to divide BJD and the role of a particular MP was suspect, are seen to draw inspiration from the set of officials who are seen to be running the show.
 
 The feuding seems to have subsided but BJP members are preparing to turn the national executive at Bhubaneswar this month into a major political statement signalling the party’s intent to displace BJD in Odisha.
 
 The view in BJP is that Patnaik is dependent on his favourite officials, making him less active and politically alert than he has been in the past. Talk of defections seems more intended to create confusion in BJD than a serious bid to precipitate elections but BJP intends to keep the pressure on what it feels is a wounded rival.
 
 BJD members, however, said that while BJP’s gains were impressive, there remained a large vote gap as the ruling party had slipped by just 3% to a 40% vote share.
 
 They also pointed out that the previous BJD tally of 656 of 856 panchayat seats was an aberration and the current tally of 473 more correctly reflected the ground situation. Yet, the reduction in   votes that have shifted to BJP and the boost in panchayat results are a cause for concern in BJD circles.
 
 The outfit, which has held on to to power under Patnaik since 2000, is facing its severest test.
 
 BJP is looking to stoke the sense of disorientation in the BJD camp as members like Baijayant Panda urge Patnaik to “act” to correct the party’s political decline, in the process reminding observers that the CM has not shown the cool and ruthless responses that he is famous for. After the UP success, BJP chief Amit Shah may be encouraged to adopt an aggressive line in Odisha too.
 
 
