KOTKAPURA: In an effort to assuage the hurt Sikh sentiments following incidents of desecration of religious scriptures last year, Prime Minister   on Sunday promised proper probe into the cases.

 "The CBI is investigating the cases of desecration in Punjab. The agency is working to identify the culprits and those responsible for it will be given stringent punishment," he said while addressing a   at Kotkapura.
 
 Targeting Congress, the PM accused Congress of branding Sikh youths as terrorists during and after the era of militancy in the state. "With it, wherever Sikhs went in India or abroad, they were seen as terrorists. Even while travelling in trains, Sikh passengers had to face the anger of people outside Punjab. Sikhs could never forgive Congress for it," he said.
 
 Earlier, Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal had urged the Prime Minister to direct the CBI to complete its investigation at the earliest so that "we know who is behind this inhuman act". He also accused AAP of being behind the incidents.
 
 Union minister  , too, expressed her dismay at both Congress and AAP for blaming the Badals for the sacrilege cases. "(CM Parkash Singh) Badal is one of the most devout Sikhs. The opposition parties must think twice before making such allegations," she said.
 
 The first incident of desecration was reported at Bargari, 10km from Kotkapura, on October 12, 2015. Two days later, two persons were killed in police firing at nearby   while protesting against the desecration.
 
 Tension was prevailing in several assembly constituencies in Malwa hinterland, including Kotkapura, Jaito, Baghapurana in Moga, which are surrounded by Bargari and Behbal Kalan, following the sacrilege incidents.
 
 In an effort to assuage the hurt Sikh sentiments following incidents of desecration of religious scriptures last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday promised proper probe into the cases.
 
 “The CBI is investigating the cases of desecration in Punjab. The agency is working to identify the culprits and those responsible for it will be given stringent punishment,“ he said while addressing a SAD-BJP rally at Kotkapura.
 
 The PM accused Congress of branding Sikh youths as terrorists during and after the era of militancy in the state. “Wherever Sikhs went in India or abroad, they were seen as terrorists. Even in trains, Sikh pas sengers had to face the anger of people outside Punjab. Sikhs could never for give Congress for it,“ he said. Earlier, Punjab deputy chief minister Sukh bir Badal had urged the Prime Minister to direct the CBI to complete its investigation at the earliest so that “we know who is behind this inhuman act“. He also accused AAP of being behind the incidents.
 
 Union minister Harsimrat Badal, too, expressed her dismay at both Congress and AAP for blaming the Badals for the sacrilege cases. “(CM Parkash Singh) Badal is one of the most devout Sikhs. The opposition parties must think twice before making such allegations,“ she said.
 
 The first incident of desecration was reported at Bargari, 10km from Kotkapura, on October 12, 2015. Two days later, two persons were killed in police firing at nearby Behbal Kalan while protesting against the desecration.
 
 Tension was prevailing in several assembly constit uencies in Malwa hinterland, including Kotkapura, Jaito, Baghapurana in Moga, which are surrounded by Bargari and Behbal Kalan, following the sacrilege incidents.
 
