HYDERABAD: To check the increasing number of road mishaps on the   (ORR),   on Thursday stepped up   on the eight-lane access-controlled expressway in their jurisdiction. Police even sent a proposal to the government asking for permission to set up a dedicated ORR police station and reduce the maximum speed limit on the ORR from 120 kilometres per hours (kmph) to 100 kmph. 

 Cyberabad police and the HMDA officials flagged off four new patrolling vehicles at Puppalaguda toll gate on the ORR. The patrolling vehicles have laser speed guns and breath analysers. Cyberabad sleuths already have two patrolling vehicles and two speed guns. 
 
 Of the six ORR patrolling vehicles, four would be patrolling the area between Abdullapurmet-Patancheru and Gachibowli, where maximum number of mishaps have taken place. The remaining vehicles would be patrolling between Sultanpur and Medchal, Shamirpet and Sultanpur.
 
 Talking to media personnel at the event, HMDA commissioner Chiranjeevulu said that they were aiming to achieve zero road accident mortality on the ORR by controlling two major factors responsible for the mishaps. 
 
 "Drunk driving and over-speeding have been identified as key factors for road mishaps on the ORR. A vehicle speeding at 208 kmph was once recorded by enforcement officials between Shamirpet and Keesara," the HMDA commissioner informed.
 
 Cyberabad police on Thursday issued a notification reducing the maximum speed limits on lanes 1 and 2 (closer to the median) from 120 kmph to 100 kmph. 
 
 "From Friday onwards, vehicles have to travel between 100 kmph and 80 kmph on lane 1&2 and the speed limit for lanes 3&4 is 80-40 kmph. Any violator will have to pay 1,500 fine," Cyberabad DCP (traffic) A R Srinivas said. 
 
 The number of road mishaps on the ORR in Cyberabad commissionerate have increased from 802 in the first four months of 2016 to 1,137 during the corresponding period in 2017. 
 
 Cyberabad police commissioner   said each patrolling vehicle would be manned with an ASI or SI and a constable in each shift. Cyberabad police have also sent a proposal to the government to set up a dedicated police station for ORR with an inspector as its head. 
 
