NASHIK: The National Mission for Manuscripts (NMM) has published a book entitled —   — transliterated by Nashik-based Trirashmi Research Institute of Buddhism and Indic Languages (Tribils) students.

 The NMM is an autonomous organisation under the ministry of culture. “This is the first time in the NMM’s history that an entire text has been transliterated by students learning ancient scripts,” Bharat Tejale, the NMM representative for  , said on Friday.
 
 The story of the book’s conception is even more interesting. In 2014, Tribils conducted its very first workshop on five ancient scripts including the Modi, Dhammalipi (brahmi),  ,   and Newari. As part of the exercise, students were given pages of ‘Dharani Sangraha’, a   of the 7th century, which had never been published before. The entire text is in the Newari script and was in the Sanskrit language. 
 
 “Our students took it as an exercise and transliterated the entire text in the workshop from Nevari to Devnagri script. They put in a lot of effort and NMM was keen to publish the text. Our students deserve all the credit for it,” said  , Tribils director, who is also the book’s editor.
 
 The Dharani Sangraha includes hundreds of anecdotes connected to all the chief personages in Buddhist philosophy. The book was published under the ‘Kritibodha’ or the ‘learn through experience’ series of NMM which has received worldwide acclaim for best research. At present, the book is available on Amazon and other online platforms. 
 
 “Tribils has trained over 2,500 students in the basics of brahmi lipi, which is a world record. Apart from this, 250 students are completing graduation and postgraduation in Pali through the organization. Altogether 15 students have completed their masters, while eight are M.Phil in this language,” Bhosekar said.
 
 Tribils has been teaching ancient scripts and languages in Nashik for the last five years. The organisation plans on conducting more workshops on ancient scripts from next month. “Like Dharini Sangraha, many rare scripts are still unknown and texts remain unedited in the forgotten scripts like Newari. Our aim is to bring them into Devnagari so that researchers will understand the great philosophy of Buddhism,” Bhosekar said.
 
 
