LUCKNOW: Congress released its fourth list of candidates in the   on Saturday, taking its tally of names to 104 candidates, so far. As a part of their pre-poll alliance, the Congress and SP have agreed to contest 105 and 298 seats, respectively, in UP’s 403-seat assembly. 

 With candidature for only one more seat left to be announced, Congress’ push to field its nominees on all 10 assembly seats in the twin VIP parliamentary constituencies of Amethi and   appears to have been thwarted. Congress, however, did manage to field its candidates on seven assembly constituencies in the districts so far, which is more than the 50-50 share Akhilesh had agreed to part with earlier. In 2012, while SP had won seat seats, the Congress won two, and the Peace Party one seat in the Gandhi pocketboroughs of Amethi and Rae Bareli. 
 
 So far, Congress has fielded candidates on three assembly seats in the Amethi Lok Sabha—Tiloi, Salon and Jagdishpur, and four under the Rae Bareli Lok Sabha—on Bachhrawan, Harchandpur, Rae Bareli, and Sareni seats. Even though Congress had sought control over Gauriganj and Unchahar also, SP MLA from Gauriganj, Rakesh Pratap Singh, and Unchahar MLA Manoj Pandey have already filed their nominations from the two seats. 
 
 The Amethi assembly seat, where SP announced the candidature of legislator-minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati, however, remains in a limbo. Congress’ campaign committee chairman Sanjay Sinh is attempting to wrest control of the seat for wife Amita, who is keen to contest. Prajapati has still not filed his nomination papers from the Amethi seat, yet. With Saturday’s list leaving only one seat open, though, the scales appear to have been tipped in Akhilesh’ favour, suggesting Congress will have to give up two of the three disputed seats. 
 
 Congress’ fourth list also accommodated SP MLA Ram Chandra Chaudhary’s son Angad from the reserved Kadipur assembly in Sultanpur, while SP’s runner up in the Campiyarganj seat in 2012, Chinta Yadav, will contest on the hand symbol this time. Former SP MLA Samad Ansari, denied a SP ticket, is being fielded by Congress from Varanasi North. Congress has also fielded candidates from the reserved Manakpur, Duddhi and Maharajganj seats won by the SP in 2012.
 
