Pune: The election day was bit of a let-down for many eligible voters staying in   in   since only about 22% of them could manage to register their names for voting ahead of the  .

 Of 50,000 eligible voters staying in 104 new housing societies in Kharadi, only about 11,000 (22%) could register their names for voting, which they blamed on tight work schedules and lack of help from authorities.
 
 Nitin Memane (44), a resident of Gera Emerald City North, said: “In our society alone, there are over 500 eligible voters, of which only 158 could manage to register their names for voting. Though most wanted to register their names, they failed to do so due to their tight work schedules and lack of help from the authorities. Some had gone to the local registration camp as well, but they were redirected to the ward office. After this, many of them just gave up due to the trouble involved.”
 
 IT professional Manoj Dudhankar (37) from Urban Nirvana society said: “There are close to 1.2 lakh residents in the area, nearly 50,000 of which stay in the 104 new societies here. Of these, 22,000 residents of 32 societies are members of the Kharadi Housing Societies Welfare Association (KHSWA). Among these 22,000 voters, names of only about 5,000 are on the voters’ list this year.”
 
 Explaining the low number, Sushobhan Das, a resident of Ganga Constella, said: “Between 40% and 50% of the residents in each society are tenants, who avoid registering their names for voting for various reasons. To help these people cast their votes, the process of registration needs to be simplified.”
 
 There are many issues which need to be addressed in the area. However with many voters being left out from the voting process, how are we to press for our demands, Das said, adding that the residents have made a 15-point manifesto listing each of issues they want resolved. 
 
 Same society, but different voting booths
 
 Even among those who managed to be listed as voters in Kharadi, the problems did not stop. “For the 158 voters at Gera North, there are about 10 different polling booths in different areas despite them having the same address. There are errors in names as well with one voter receiving two different cards with different details,” Memane said.
 
 Moving forward, the residents feel polling booths should be set up in housing societies, at least the ones with a large number of residents.
 
 
