CHENNAI: Even as a political drama unfolded in Chennai with assembly speaker P Dhanapal disqualifying 18 rebel legislators backing T T V Dhinakaran, the central character of the entire episode, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, went about his usual business, taking part in various functions and meetings in Salem district.

 Addressing party workers at the MGR centenary celebrations in Salem on Monday, Palaniswami said the DMK’s daydream to form a government after J Jayalalithaa’s demise was shattered due to the strength and unity displayed by the AIADMK workers. Palaniswami said no one will be able to shake the AIADMK government in future. The chief minister said he was running the government with the blessings of M G Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa and that he will always remain a layman and the late Jayalalithaa will be the "permanent chief minister" of Tamil Nadu. The CM said he was just doing the work left unfinished by Jayalalithaa. Palaniswami said the ruling AIADMK dispensation "will restore two-leaves symbol at the earliest".
 
 Slamming dynasty politics, Palaniswami said, "Only heirs will come to power in the DMK", while anyone loyal to the party will be able to make it big in the AIADMK.
 
 Palaniswami said the party must work hard ensure that the AIADMK swept the local body elections. "There are 60 wards in the Salem municipal corporation and all the 60 should be won by the AIADMK," he said, adding that through a huge victory cadres should prove that Salem was AIADMK’s fort.
 
 The chief minister said MGR centenary functions celebrated by the party across the state have been a grand success. Palaniswami said he was expecting a huge crowd for the centenary function to be held in Salem on September 30. "More than two lakh AIADMK workers will participate in the function," he said.
 
 Palaniswami also inspected the arrangements made for the centenary celebrations on the premises of the Government Engineering College at Karuppur in Salem. He advised the workers to make all the necessary arrangements for the party workers who are expected to come from far-off places.
 
