NEW DELHI: TOI’s report on Tuesday on the alleged   in Adarsh Nagar conjectured that the cops involved might have dumped the body of fruit seller   in an area under their own jurisdiction in order to retain control over the investigation that would follow. Police sources confirmed on Wednesday that this was indeed what had transpired. 

 Following the confession of one of the cops, Inderraj, and the recording of the statements of the SHO and four constables before a magistrate on Tuesday, sources revealed that constable Kuldeep did his best to mislead investigating officer Umesh Rana while SHO Sanjay Kumar declared the body as unidentified and sent it to mortuary, where it would have lain for 72 hours and then been cremated.
 
 This plan to quietly dispose of the body in this manner was, however, upset by the confession of Inderraj. Narrating the sequence of events, the constable said he took Sompal in for questioning after a vendor accused him of not paying for slippers he had picked up from his cart at Azadpur wholesale market. Inderraj said Sompal had been charged earlier with similar thefts.
 
 Inderraj said that the SHO was on patrolling duty at the time, but on being informed had ordered constables Surender and Kuldeep to interrogate Sompal. Half an hour later, Kuldeep called Inderraj to say the fruit seller had died after a fall from the terrace. On reaching the police station, SHO Kumar asked the constables to dump Sompal’s body at a drain near the Majlis Park metro station. On their way back, the cops stopped to wash off the blood stains. 
 
 After the discovery of the body, Kuldeep accompanied IO Rana to the drain and tried to pass off the death as an accident. The SHO also insisted that Rana declare the body as unidentified. But the investigating officer suspected the policemen had a role to play in the death and informed his seniors, and his suspicions were later confirmed by Inderraj.
 
 The deceased man’s family did not make much of his going missing because he frequently had drinking sessions with friends and stayed at their house for days on end. They came to know about his death only when the cops came asking for his photograph.
 
 Senior officers said they would wait for the final report from the metropolitan magistrate and match it with the autopsy report to decide further action against the guilty cops.
 
 
