PUDUCHERRY: A team of researchers led by the head of the   of   said they have developed a simple, rapid and cost-effective method to detect  . 

 Artificial ripening of fruits with calcium carbide - that locals in the illegal trade call 'powder' or 'masala' - has been banned under the Prevention of Food Adulteration Act and Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006. Consumption of fruits ripened artificially using calcium carbide may cause serious health hazards.
 
 The team, led by Prathap Kumar Shetty, developed a sensor solution (with bio-functionalised   nanoparticles).
 
 When the solution is mixed with water with which the fruits have been washed, the solution changes colour, if the fruits had been ripened using calcuim carbide. This can be used to prove whether the fruits were ripened using calcium carbide.
 
 The team has filed a patent for the invention at the regional patent office, Chennai.
 
 Other members of the team were PhD student Ankita J Lakade and postdoctoral scientist K Sundar.
 
 "The solution can be used by anyone and does not need technical expertise. It is simple and cost effective," Shetty said. "Wash the fruit with 10ml of water and take 1ml of the wash and mix it with an equal volume of the solution in a glass test tube. If the solution changes colour, from red to purple, it indicates that calcium carbide was used to 'ripen' the fruit. No change in colour indicates that calcium carbide was not used on the fruit."
 
 He said reputed laboratories have begun validating the sensor solution. 
 
 "The solution will be released soon after validation," Shetty said. "It is a timely invention as there has been a lot of concern among consumers about artificial ripening of fruits such as mangoes. The authorities could not enforce regulations due to lack of a simple method to test for artificial ripening."
 
 Shetty said he was encouraged to evolve a simple technique to detect artificial ripening of fruits when he served as member of a scientific panel at  . He is currently a member of a panel on contaminants in food chain at FSSAI.
 
 The cost of an analysis is less than 20 paise, Shetty said. "The cost will be much lower if the sensor solution is synthesised on a commercial scale."
 
 Explaining the concept of the sensor solution, Shetty said calcium carbide contains high levels of arsenic. "Fruits ripened with calcium carbide always have higher amounts of arsenic than the naturally-ripened fruits. We developed a cheap solution, which exhibits changes in colour in contact with arsenic hydride," he said.
 
 The same team had earlier developed a new technique to detect when milk is in the early stages spoilage. The method could be used in day-to-day situations so a household uses milk before it is completely spoiled.
 
 
