Chennai: Farmers in Tamil Nadu (TN), who have been hit hard by the severe drought, the Cauvery crisis and demonetisation, are finding it difficult to access loans. The agrarian crisis has seen 144 farmers in the state committing suicide and Chief Minister O Panneerselvam's declaring that TN is ‘drought-hit.’

 The farming crisis would worsen, given the limited access farmers have to credit, said farmers’ association members and Primary Agriculture Cooperative Credit Societies (PACCS) in Trichy, Thanjavur and Madurai. 
 
 "While nationalised banks, burdened by their ever-growing NPAs (non-performing assets), are not willing to give us loans, private banks have completely shut their doors on us. Our only hope is getting money from cooperative banks, which are today severely restricted in their functioning after the note ban," said R Arulpragasam, president, Poondi PACCS.
 
 Post-demonetisation, many national banks are still facing shortages in cash and hence are unable to fulfill the cash requirements of their ATM networks or cooperative banks. At Trichy, farmers are unable to get the loan amount that they have been sanctioned. "The PACCS in Trichy has been unable to dispense loans. Since November 8, farmers have not got cash through crop loans," said Swamimalai R Vimalnathan, secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Protection Association.
 
 The Reserve Bank of India has mandated that all commercial banks must disburse 18% of their loans towards priority sectors such as agriculture. An official with a private bank said that the mandate is being followed but by enforcing a certain underwriting discipline.
 
 “We cannot afford to give crop loans to the extent of our public sector peers, as we are answerable to shareholders. Of the 18% for priority sector, we try to give a lot of jewel-backed and vehicle-backed agriculture loans. Only a small percentage of our loans can be pure-play crop loans,” said an executive at a private lender, who did not want to be identified.
 
 K T Niyathibathi, a farmer, voices similar sentiments, “No private bank will give us money when both monsoons have failed and we are looking at bleak prospects.” Another acute problem for farmers is banks trying to recollect loans from their current or savings account.
 
 “Before demonetisation, vendors would pay us in cash, which we would use to buy seeds, equipment and pay labourers. When we get a harvest, we pay back the banks. Today, because of demonetisation, vendors give us cheques or make online payments. Banks take that amount for overdue loans, leaving us with no working capital for the next crop season,” said N Thangabalu, a farmer in Dindigul. 
 
 In Madurai, farmers said that instead of a 60-day interest waiver for crop loans, which was announced on Tuesday by the union government, they should give a 100% waiver on loans. “The rest of the country had a good monsoon. Only Tamil Nadu suffered this monsoon season. Our crop has wilted and we are facing poor yields,” said T Thilagar, a farmer from Usilampatti, Madurai.
 
 
