PUNE: The National Cadet Corps’ (NCC) air squadron in the city is slated to get two new microlight aircraft in a few months, a top official told TOI. The addition is expected to help the city emerge as a hub in flight training.

 The aircraft are likely to arrive in October. A top source from the   headquarter in Pune said, “We expect to see the new aircraft by the end of this year. This will be a big leap for the cadets as they will get first-hand flying experience.”
 
 The procurement is part of the NCC’s plan to acquire about 100 microlight aircraft for its air wing squadrons all over the country, the source added.
 
 A microlight is a small   that requires short runways. 
 
 It can also operate from normal airstrips. The body of the aircraft to be acquired is made of light weight, non-metallic material.
 
 The NCC group headquarter has a special air squadron that imparts theoretical and practical flying training to the cadets. However, since 2012, the cadets were not getting actual exposure to flying due to unavailability of an aircraft.
 
 “Recommencement of flying will provide a major boost to the morale of NCC cadets and will serve as a catalyst to motivate them. Secondly, it will also help us increase the number of cadets in the flying wing,” the source added.
 
 According to the present record, the squadron gets about 1,300 air cadets, a majority of whom are standard VIII to IX students from the Junior Division. The remaining are from the Senior Division, that is first year to third year of graduation students.
 
 A senior   officer, who did not wish to divulge his identity, said, “The government is taking conscious efforts to expand the NCC and hence decided to buy large number of microlight aircraft. This move will certainly give an impetus to their plan.”
 
 The officer further stated that the aim of such an initiative is to enrol maximum number of qualified NCC cadets into the Indian armed forces.
 
 “Exposure to flying at an early stage will certainly motivate students to take up a career in flying. Our endeavour is to get the talented cadets into the force,” the officer added. 
 
