AHMEDABAD: Under the impression that exchange of invalid currency notes would be allowed at the   (RBI) offices till March 2017, several citizens on Monday queued up at the central bank’s regional office in Ahmedabad to exchange their old notes. 

 They, however, were in for a shock as they were turned down and shown a handwritten notice, pasted on the gate of the RBI’s office, stating “From today, old notes of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 will not be exchanged.”
 
  “We read in newspapers that demonetized notes would be accepted at RBI offices till March 2017 on declaring valid reasons. I still have   worth Rs 5,500, which I could not deposit due to a wedding and some medical problems in my family. I came to exchange the money here but we were told that these notes are not being accepted,” said  , a resident of the city.
 
 There were many like Chaudhary, who had lined up at the RBI’s office. Some even came all the way from towns such as Mehsana and Nadiad, up to 90km away from Ahmedabad. “I took a few days’ leave to move my home to Nadiad as I live in a rented house. I am a soldier of the Indian Army posted in Jammu and Kashmir. When I returned to Nadiad, I found that my family still had invalid notes. So, I came all the way from Nadiad to get the notes change. All my efforts were in vain,” complained   from Nadiad.
 
 When people confronted security officials at the gate, RBI officials calmed the restive citizens by saying that they should approach RBI again after four-five days as there were no directives from their head office. People were also given a local enquiry number.
 
 The RBI’s regional office also posted a December 31, 2016 circular on its main gate, which pertained to NRIs and resident Indians, who could not exchange demonetized notes due to their absence from the country during the ‘grace period’.
 
 “The exchange facility is available at five offices only. We cannot comment beyond our circulars,” said an official of the RBI in Ahmedabad. As per the circular, the exchange facility is available at Mumbai, New Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, and Nagpur.
 
