BENGALURU: Although it’s been more than five weeks since the   (BBMP) started collecting property tax – both via online portals and offline payments – some of the technical glitches that have hampered the process are yet to be completely resolved. Property owners are eager to pay their tax before May 31, the extended deadline announced by the   for availing of a 5% concession in the tax amount. Frustrated citizens have taken to airing their grievances with the BBMP’s process on online public forums. 

 Raghavendra Kumar (name changed), a resident of Mysuru who owns property in the city, said that the online payment portal had not made the process any easier. “I was very happy that I would be able to pay my tax sitting in Mysuru this year. Last year, I received the challan from the   office, and paid the specified sum. But, every time I have tried to make an online payment in the past two weeks, I have received an error message stating, ‘previous payment invalid’. When I paid the amount specified in the challan generated by the system last year, how is that possible?” he asked. After an unsuccessful attempt at registering a complaint with the BBMP’s customer care cell, Raghavendra was asked to wait till the glitches were fixed. “The worst case scenario is that I will have to come to Bengaluru and pay the sum in person,” he added.
 
 Kumar’s is not an isolated case. Errors in the system have resulted in payments being rejected. However, in the absence of a proper refund policy, many owners are still awaiting reimbursement. Nagarajan K, who owns a property on Sarjapur Road, said, “I was able to pay the tax in my second attempt when I used netbanking. But I have not been reimbursed after my first attempt through Payumoney, an e-wallet, failed.”
 
 Pointing to the Palike’s disclaimer, ‘BBMP is not responsible for any double/ excess payment’, Nagarajan said, “It appears as if the BBMP knew there would be problems with the payment system. I tried to file a complaint, but the system is not allowing me to register one for this year’s payment. I wonder when I will be reimbursed.”
 
 The BBMP has collected tax worth Rs 587 crore for the year 2017-18 so far.
 
 
 
 After holding a meeting with senior officials of the civic body, and the National Informatics Centre last week, BBMP’s chairman for the standing committee on taxation and finance MK Gunashekar said that all glitches had been fixed. “People should be careful while filing taxes. Almost all the problems have been taken care of. Only 2 to 3% of the owners are facing problems. If people were really facing as many problems, how did we collect so much tax? We’ve collected Rs 250 crore more than what we had in the corresponding period last year,” said Gunashekar, adding that the BBMP hoped to collect Rs 1,000 crore before the end of the month.
 
 Not all experiences have been sour.  , 78, who went alone to file her property tax for the second time, the process couldn’t have been smoother. “I was in and out of the office in less than ten minutes. They were extremely courteous and helpful. They pointed out that I would be liable to pay lower tax this year as I had paid Rs 4000 extra last year. If they follow this for everyone, then paying tax would be a breeze,” said the Malleswaram resident.
 
 
