PUNE: Amid confusion over the fate of pending projects in their areas, 55   are gearing up for their first meeting on January 21 where they will put forth their questions to civic officials and candidates contesting the election.

 The mohalla committees that usually prepare one   of their demands have decided to draft separate charters depending on the area covered in a panel this year.
 
 “There is confusion as to who will be responsible for a specific area in a panel. This will be cleared only after the meeting, after which we will be able to ready our demands. The mohalla committees would decide the list of demands for each panel and a city charter would be ready only after the discussions,” Anita Benninger, president of the   (NSCC), said.
 
 Satish Khot, NSCC member, said the citizens are yet to get used to the panel system and the voting process. “Earlier, it was just one corporator and one area so the demands could be listed accordingly. With the panel system, all the committees will have to understand the voting process and then ready the charter. Each of the mohalla committees will have to understand which panel covers their respective areas, know their candidates and then place the demands,” Khot added.
 
 The members are not only connecting with Pune city but also with   societies. During the last elections, the mohalla committees had placed issues related to maintenance of open spaces and green patches, sewage treatment, slum rehabilitation, regular anti-enroachment drives, river restoration, better public transport and better healthcare among others. This was put up by the citizens to the political parties in the run up to the elections that were held on February 16, 2012.
 
 However, the members are keeping their cards close to their chests as of now. The first meeting will list out some of the demands. “After the mohalla committees ready a panel wise charter, a citizen’s charter for the city will be prepared,” Khot said.
 
 The members will also initiate a voters’ awareness campaign, he said, adding the thrust will be on encouraging each and every mohalla committee member to vote. “We will check our names in the list first,’’Khot said. 
 
 Most citizens’ group are waiting to interact with the candidates once the list is finalized. “Once we know the candidates, we can initiate an interaction with them and ask them how they would help the area develop,” Sanyogita Khare, a resident from Kothrud, said.
 
 
