KOLHAPUR: Most parts of the city and adjoining fringe areas will face water cuts for two days starting from Monday as the   Municipal Corporation ( ) is going to undertake the work to connect main pipelines of   water lifting scheme to Kalammawadi Direct Pipeline Project at Shendapark Chowk 

 The wards like A, B and E will go completely dry for two days. The water cuts has posed challenge before the water supply department as during the water cut on last Sunday, the civic authorities failed to deploy water tankers at most places in the city.
 
 S K  , chief hydraulic engineer of the KMC, said, "The work is important for people living in suburbs and E ward as these areas receive water at low pressure even on normal days. We have taken enough care this time and will ensure that the frequency of trips of the water tankers will be increased to cater to the needs of the citizens."
 
 The civic body has formed teams to monitor the situation of water cuts on ground and has communicated the decision to the local corporators as well. The KMC is planning to hire private water suppliers in case the eight water tankers available with it prove inadequate. The high rise water tanks located at various parts of the city will be completely filled by Sunday evening and will be utilised to supply water on Monday morning.
 
 "The water supply will resume on Wednesday morning," said Kulkarni. The areas which will face water cuts on Monday are Puikhadi, Jivaba Nana Park, Nana Patil Nagar, Aptenagar, Saneguruji Vasahat, Kalamba Filter House, Tapowan, Race Course, Rajarampuri, Bagal Chowk, Udyamnagar, Shashtrinagar, Shivaji University Area, Lisha Hotel Road, Bapat Camp, Shivaji Park and Shahupuri.
 
 "The rest of the city will get water from   filter house. Also, the water tankers will be filled at the same filter house. We will ensure that the work to join two pipes will be complete by Tuesday afternoon as it takes four to six hours to get adequate pressure once the pumping station is operated," said Kulkarni. 
 
