CHANDIGARH: Despite financial constraints, two sisters —Manju Kumari and   — kept chasing their dreams. On Saturday, both the daughters of vegetable vendors, who study at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 10 A, Chandigarh, was on cloud nine when the Class XII CBSE results were announced. While Manju scored 89.6%, Neetu bagged 86% respectively.

 Though the family finds it difficult to make both ends meet, that didn’t stop them from providing the “best possible education” to their daughters. The parents believed their daughters can change the financial conditions through education.
 
 Manju and Neetu have always been bright students. Despite migrating from one place to another, the girls managed to score well in Class X as well. Manju scored 9.6 while Neetu scored 9.0 CGPA.
 
 While studying in Class X in Sarangpur, the teachers not only helped them with their education but also provided financial assistance.
 
 “Our teachers — Arvind sir and Dharamveer sir— were constantly there to help us. It wouldn’t have been possible for us to score well in Class X without their support,” said an elated Neetu.
 
 Neetu finds inspiration in her teachers and also aspires to be one. In fact, both the sisters want to become teachers. “It is a noble profession. Our teachers helped us and when we become one, we can also help others. We strongly believe that one can be successful only through education,” she said.
 
 They might be fighting financial crisis but that has failed to weaken their determination. Manju wants to complete her master’s degree and also wants to try her hands in UPSC. Manju also wants to relieve her family off the burden of poverty. But they know the reality is different. “Higher education is costly. So, we will start giving tuition to manage finances for further studies,” said Manju.
 
 The girls are all praise for their father, who has never shied away from financing their education. “Despite financial crisis, our father has always managed to finance our education and motivated us to continue it,” said the sisters.
 
 Besides this, students who come from the poor economic background and are associated with Bhai Jaitaji Foundation (BJF), Sector 28, Chandigarh, have proved their mettle in CBSE exams 2018. Out of the 26 students of Bhai Jaitajee Foundation (BJF) studying at St. Soldier School Sector 28-A, Chandigarh and AKSIPS Mohali, 15 students scored more than 90% in CBSE exams. In fact, eight students have scored more than 93%. BJF through its endeavor, has been able to fulfill the needs of these children, who were denied basic necessities of life in the remote regions of Punjab.
 
 
 
