Ghaziabad: The decomposed body of a 65-year-old man believed to have died at least a week ago was found in his 11th-floor   in a housing society in Raj Nagar Extension on Saturday.

 Neighbours said Ramanandham  , who hailed from Tamil Naidu and lived alone, had told them he was a retired defence officer and mostly kept to himself. Although neighbours had been getting a foul smell for the past few days, they approached the cops only when it became unbearable and they found Vridhagiri’s flat locked from inside for days at a stretch.
 
 There were conflicting versions on Vridhagiri’s family back in Tamil Nadu. The residents of  , where Vridhagiri had bought a flat in 2013, said the retired official had told them his wife had died several years ago and his son worked with an IT company in the southern state. Police claimed Vridhagiri had divorced his wife and was childless.
 
 None of Vridhagiri’s neighbours could recollect having seen his son or anybody from his family visiting him ever. Police said they had contacted one of his sisters in Trichy, Jayanti, and had informed her about Vridhagiri’s death.
 
 “The exact family background will be clear after his sister and other relatives arrive. We received a call from the housing society around 10.30am about a foul smell emanating from the flat. We found the flat locked from inside. We broke the door and found the highly decomposed body of Vridhagiri lying on a bed in the bedroom,” said Ram Narayan Singh, the in-charge of Morta police outpost.
 
 According to Sanjeev Sharma, president of the apartment owners’ association, Vridhagiri had been living alone in the flat that he had bought in 2013. “We hardly saw anyone visiting him. He did not hire any maid and would do all the household chores himself. Though he attended the society’s meetings, he would speak very little. I had called him up on April 22, but it went unanswered,” he said.
 
 Vridhagiri’s neighbours had been getting a foul smell for the past few days, but had been thinking that some animal had died in the vicinity. “We thought it could be a rat or some birds that had died. We cleaned the shaft and the surroundings, but the smell turned all the pungent. When it became unbearable on Saturday morning, we called police,” said Anuj Pradhan, who lives in the opposite flat.
 
 
