MOHALI: There has been a sudden spurt in cases of gold smuggling at Chandigarh International Airport as four cases have been registered in the past 15 days. The new modus operandi of the gold smugglers to conceal gold in rectum has put customs sleuths on high alert. The custom officials have also foiled 6 such attempts made in the past 8 months at the Chandigarh International Airport — with 3 of them appearing recently in March.

 Air intelligence wing of customs department and baggage officers have caught around 23.6 kg gold in 27 cases which is estimated to be around Rs 8.5 crore since the inception of international flights at airport reveals data provided by airport authorities. As many as 3 instances of transporting gold via concealing them in rectum have been foiled by the customs sleuths, while one each have been in February, December and July. 
 
 Interestingly, 5 out of the 6 cases were of passengers arriving from Dubai, whereas one was caught from incoming Bangkok flight. A senior officer from directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) explained that the accused wrap the gold biscuits in carbon paper, then cover it with cello tape and doctor’s tape to avoid detection in Xray scanning. On March 8, a man was caught with 180 gram of gold worth Rs 5.6 lakh. On March 6, two women were caught with 800 gm gold in their rectum which was estimated to be worth Rs 25 lakh. One woman had concealed bars weighing 450 grams lakh whereas the other woman had hidden 350 grams. The gold was wrapped in carbon paper and taped properly before inserting in rectum. On March 3, a man travelling from Bangkok was caught with 227 grams of gold worth Rs 6.8 lakh inserted in his rectum. The custom officials have been busting gold smuggling rackets at Chandigarh International Airport since it started the operations of international flights from Dubai, Sharjah and Bangkok. Sandeep Dhawan, a citybased gastrologist, said, “There is no fatal threat in keeping objects in rectum but filling the cavity with object and sustaining it for hours requires a lot of practice. Anything pushed up rectum urges a need to pass the stool. Secondly, to insert any solid object inside the rectum is also a specialized technique so that carrier is not harmed.”
 
