MUMBAI: What looked like a business summit in a room brimming with industry stalwarts like  ,  , Sajjan Jindal, Narayanan Vaghul, and R Seshasayee turned out to be a merger of inventive minds aiming to steer a novel enterprise to reorient traditional educational practices in higher education and train students to be job-ready in a changing market.

 
 The high-powered who came together on Friday in the city unveiled a blueprint for a private university whose centerpiece will be a fouryear residential undergraduate programme in Liberal Arts & Sciences with learning focused on “blending humanities, science, technology and ethics” to create fluid relations between humans, machines and the environment.
 
 “Leaders aren’t going to come from specialised universities or learning anymore. What we need in order to create a future generation of leaders is whole-brain learning, not just left brain or right brain focused. As an employer today we look for people who can join the dots, not paint the dots,” said Anand Mahindra, chairman of the  , who is part of Krea University’s governing council. The council will also include former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan who was present at the event. “I’m a product of IIT with specialised training although I wish there was a course on philosophy that I could study. It could have helped me along the way. We want students to know what the real world is about. Awake their inner ability to learn,” he stressed.
 
 The university’s “interwoven learning” curriculum, R Seshasayee, chairman of the university’s supervisory board said, will blend the arts and sciences; eastern and western perspectives; theoretical expertise and practical application to prepare the next generation for a changing jobs market.
 
 Krea is being established as a state private university under the Andhra Pradesh State Private Universities Act 2016, and will confer BA and B.Sc degrees as decided by the Academic Council of the University that includes academicians from Princeton, Stanford and   apart from a journalist, musician and social innovators. With a funding of Rs 750 crore in the first phase, admissions will open in November this year while the first batch will commence in July 2019 from the 3,00,000 sq ft IFMR campus at Sri City near Chennai. The University’s upcoming 200-acre campus also at Sri City will be ready to welcome students by 2020.
 
