NAGPUR: For someone who has cycled for 3,000 kms in one year, completing the 1,460 kms G2G event from   in New Delhi to Gateway of India in Mumbai in six days was an easy task. But 38-year-old interior designer   says that she participated because “I loved the title of the event and also got to traverse across five states”. Starting out on December 16 last year, Patel reached Mumbai five days later with five other participants of who one another was a woman.

 Patel took up cycling two years back just to keep fit but gradually scaled up. She became a Super Randonneur by cycling for 1,500 kms at a stretch twice in one year. “I used to play badminton but had to stop due to a ligament tear. So I started cycling and would cover 10 to 15 kms per day when I learnt about brevets,” she said. 
 
 It was a friend who told her about the G2G event for which she enrolled in March-2017. Patel says she prepared extensively for four months to participate in this one.
 
 Terming the first day of the ride from India Gate as an exhilarating one, Patel says, “My troubles began from second day as I had a terrible backache, fever and indigestion. On the third day I had saddle sores and my stomach remained upset for almost the entire duration of the ride.” 
 
 Starting at 6am every day and finishing around 8pm for a night halt at one of the places earmarked on the route, she pedalled for 280 kms everyday. “At the start we were eight but two dropped out midway. We had a support vehicle which helped us by providing pit support and there were vehicles of other participants too. But though my family had proposed that they too would follow me in a car, I refused as I wanted to handle this and any issues arising during the event on my own,” she adds.
 
 Cycling on national highway no 8, Patel says, “Four-lane roads in excellent condition made peddling comfortable. It was only when we began approaching a city that traffic increased making cycling difficult and hazardous too. The last fifty kms when we reached Mumbai were terrible due to traffic and we had to get off the cycle many times. Otherwise it was very safe from a woman’s point of view too and people were extremely supportive.”
 
 The biggest takeaway for Patel from this ride is the realization about her endurance levels. “More than physical peddling I was riding on my mental strength. That’s why despite a indigestion problems I could complete the ride,” she says while also encouraging women to take up such expeditions. 
 
 “Age is just a number as I still feel 18,” says Patel who will be taking part in a cycling event in   from Jan 26-30 and the Deccan Cliffhanger in November this year.
 
 
