MUMBAI: The   today arrested a   for passing on information about one of the directors of an   to a   for  .

 According to police, Irfan Memon, 36, had sent pictures of Spartan Poker director Amin Rozani, his car and also shared other details with gangster Fahim Machmach.
 
 Armed with the information, Machmach allegedly began calling up Rozani and issuing threats. According to the police, all the calls were from Pakistan numbers. “Tere naam ki supari nikli hai. Pacchas peti bhej de. Tu bahot kama raha hai (We have got a contract to kill you, pay up Rs 50 lakh. You are making a lot of money),” one of the WhatsApp messages read.
 
 Rozani has told the police after he stopped taking the international calls, he was bombarded with WhatsApp voice messages giving minute details of what he was wearing, photographs of his cars and each one ended with a warning. “Rozani got scared and approached the Bandra police who registered an extortion offence against Machmach,” said an officer from the crime branch.
 
 This complaint was being probed when the crime branch arrested Bigg Boss 11 contestant Zubair Khan and his associates in a similar extortion case last week.
 
 Police said in the case of Zubair Khan, the social worker, who was the complainant, had said she used to get calls from a Pakistan number and the caller identified himself as Usman Chaudhary. The caller, who had made a demand for Rs1 crore, had told the woman he was an aide of gangsters Dawood Ibrahim and Chhota Shakeel.
 
 While interrogating two of the accused, police discovered a common link between the two cases. The two accused knew Memon and were in touch with each other as well Machmach.
 
 Secondly, police said Memon stayed in the vicinity of the victim and, hence, he managed to take pictures and update Machmach on a regular basis.
 
 “While quizzing Memon, it transpired that more than two dozen cases of car theft were registered against him. He is known by the moniker ‘Irfan BMC’ as he is an expert car thief,” said a police official.
 
 Police said they were interrogating Memon to know how what other details of the victim he had sent to the gangster and the monetary benefits he made.
 
