KANYAKUMARI: The Edappadi K Palanisami-led government has allotted Rs 1,355 crore over the last one year for the upkeep and infrastructure of courts in  , which is more than the Rs 639 crore that was allotted towards the same during their previous five-year rule, law minister C V   has said.

 Speaking after inaugurating five courts in Kanyakumari district on Friday, the minister recalled that the Centre’s share in the Rs 639 crore was a mere Rs 155 crore. He said that late chief minister   had announced the construction of 273 courts across the state and that 150 of them have been completed and have started functioning.
 
 Shanmugam said orders have been issued and work is underway for the construction of as many as 197 various courts and judiciary related buildings. “We have been getting requests from advocates for more court buildings and most of them are being sanctioned after the approval of the high court,” he said.
 
 The minister also said that the government has set aside Rs 117 crore for filling up 3,400 vacancies across ranks in the judiciary department. “This includes 1,400 vacancies in the Madras high court. Most of the vacancies have been filled. Work is underway for fill up the remaining vacancies at the earliest,” the minister added.
 
 Later, while interacting with reporters the minister, who is also in charge of prisons said the government has no second thought in releasing the nearly 1,600 life convicts with good conduct as part of the MGR centenary celebrations. “The chief minister assured had in Dindigul assured that they will be released in line with centenary celebrations,” he said and added that there is no deadline for the release when asked about delay for their release.
 
 “It is a laborious process. We individually analysed the records of the convicts and the list has been handed over to the government. They will soon be released,” he said. When asked about the state government’s next move over forming the  , he said that they wait till the March 29, which is the deadline for the Centre to form the board.
 
 
