PATNA: The state agriculture department has prepared a Rs 2,950 crore integrated watershed project comprising 332 schemes for recharge of   resources in 17 south Bihar districts, apart from income generation of the beneficiaries through the financing of the self-help groups of women.

 “It is an integrated watershed project aimed at conservation of rainwater,” said state agriculture minister Prem Kumar on Thursday, adding, “Water so conserved can also be used for irrigation purposes by the beneficiaries.”
 
 The project, which is expected to be completed in five years, will provide irrigation facility in 22 lakh hectare (or 55 lakh acres) of land spread over 17 south Bihar districts. The area covered stretches from Buxar to Bhagalpur districts, and the work involves creation of micro watersheds – ‘nullahs’ – along roadsides, brick and cement structures across the ‘nullahs’ for holding flowing water and digging of ponds on both government and private land. 
 
 The minister said the project envisages formation of women’s self-help groups (SHGs) in the watershed area. The financing of the SHGs for income generation activities is a part of the mega watershed project.
 
 “The money involved will be raised through central assistance and from the state’s own income as well as through loan from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). The NABARD has agreed in principle to finance the project by way of loan,” the minister said.
 
 He said of the total estimated expenditure of Rs 2,950 crore, Rs 550 crore is for the ongoing projects already under implementation. The remaining Rs 2,400 crore, with the money provided by the Centre, NABARD and the state government, will be spent on the new projects, the minister added. As to the ongoing schemes, the Centre and the state government will provide Rs 100 crore each, and the remaining sum of Rs 350 crore will be provided by the NABARD.
 
 The 17 south Bihar districts where the project will be implemented are Buxar, Bhojpur, Rohtas, Kaimur, Aurangabad, Gaya, Jehanabad, Arwal, Nawada, Nalanda, Patna, Lakhisarai, Sheikhpura, Jamui, Munger, Banka and Bhagalpur.
 
 
