AMARAVATI: Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu   expressed angst on the step-motherly attitude of the   government while addressing the Assembly on Wednesday.

 
 Recalling the PM’s remarks that   successfully delivered the baby (Telangana), but killed the mother, Naidu said, the Centre is choking 
  . “I visited Delhi 29 times, requesting the PM to handhold AP, but to no avail. Funds flow for the new capital city and Polavaram project are meagre and promise on railway zone for Vizag remains unfulfilled,” he said, reiterating his demand that all 19 promises in AP Bifurcation Act be honoured.
 
  
  
 
 Replying to a thanksgiving motion to Governor’s address, Naidu said though TDP and BJP are in a coalition 

 
   , Centre did not extend the expected support to the state 
 
 which suffered heavily due to bifurcation. Naidu said assets were given based on location, while liabilities distributed on basis of population. Electricity was shared based on consumption, he said, regretting injustice done to the state. He blamed Congress for the injustice and said he aligned with BJP, hoping for justice.
 
 “I am the seniormost politician in the country. I am working hard for development of the state and looking forward to cordial relations with the Central government. But, indifferent attitude from the Centre is painful,” he said.
 
 The CM said he had waited for almost four years working hard. “We have taken initiatives to develop the State, mobilise investments and rope in multinational companies to invest here,” Naidu said, and regretted that his hard work and the state’s growth is being punished by the Centre.
 
 The TDP on Wednesday decided to pull out two of its ministers in the central government, marking the first crack in the BJP-led coalition four years after it stormed to office with a massive mandate. 
 
 "We have taken the decision to pull out two TDP ministers, civil aviation minister P Ashok Gajapati Raju and Union minister of science and technology Srujana Chowdary, from the Union cabinet as all our efforts to get special category status failed. It was a last resort decision," Naidu said on Wednesday. 
 
 The ministers are expected to resign today. 
  
  
 
 
 
