NEW DELHI: As   remains dysfunctional, the   was adjourned for the day in under six minutes and the   could only function for a few minutes longer on Monday as the government-opposition standoff entered its third consecutive week.

 
 Appealing to protesting MPs from   (TDP), YSR Congress, Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam ( ) and urging them to take their seats, Rajya Sabha chairman M   said, “Friends, people are laughing at us. Parliament will become a laughing stock... Please don’t do this. This is not in the interest of the country. This is not in the interest of Parliament.” Naidu asserted that the government and the opposition were willing to discuss all issues. However, his appeal failed to make an impact and the chairman adjourned the House till Tuesday.
 
 Scenes in Lok Sabha were not much different. No-confidence motions tabled by arch rivals TDP and YSR Congress against the NDA government could not be taken up yet again as the House remained in disorder.
 
 On Monday morning, even before the House met, TDP MPs gathered at the Mahatma Gandhi statue inside the Parliament complex to press their demand for special status for  . They were joined by AIADMK MPs who were demanding constitution of a Cauvery management board, while TRS MPs raised their own set of demands.
 
 In Lok Sabha, however, while TDP MPs remained seated and appeared willing to allow the head count needed to see whether the no-confidence motion had the backing of the mandated 50 MPs, AIADMK and TRS MPs were in the well and led to the House being adjourned until noon in less than a minute.
 
 When it met again, Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan sought to put notices of the no-confidence motion for leave of the House but AIADMK and TRS members continued to raise slogans.
 
 Even as opposition MPs were on their feet and urged the Speaker to count the number of MPs backing the no-confidence motion, Mahajan insisted that everyone must be seated and visible to her before she counted the number of MPs backing the motion.
 
 Expressing concern over continuous disruption of Parliament, home minister Rajnath Singh said the government was keen to facilitate all discussions.
 
 “Since the start of the Parliament session, the proceedings have been marred by disruptions. I want to convey that the treasury benches want discussion on any subject any MP wants, including on the no-confidence motions,” he said.
 
 The fervent plea, however, fell on deaf ears as sloganeering continued and MPs held up posters to register their protests. 
 
 After MPs refused to listen, Mahajan said, “Since the House is not in order, I will not be able to bring the notices before the House. I am sorry.” She then adjourned the House.
 
