Vijayawada: Residents of the city are concerned over the district administration’s decision to allow traffic over the Kanaka Durga   which is still lacking several safety measures.

 While motorists are happy that traffic woes will subside with the decision to allow vehicles towards Bhavanipuram from Kanaka Durga Temple, inadequate safety measures are putting commuters at risk. According to sources, the district administration took the decision to allow traffic via the flyover after bowing to pressure from a certain minister.
 
 After failing to meet five deadlines to complete the flyover construction work, the district administration has decided to allow the traffic even before the completion of work, it is learnt. 
 
 Officials reportedly decided to allow traffic through the worksite as only one pier and abutment were to be finished along the flyover.
 
 However, the road has become a bottleneck at the pending pier where work is still going on. The width of the road at this point is only 15 ft to 20 ft making it difficult for passage of traffic from both sides. What is of concern is that vehicles are passing through the area even as work is under progress. The drainage work being executed near the pier is creating another bottleneck.
 
 Another issue was that at the tenth and eleventh pier, a slip road was provided instead of passage under the flyover. This slip road is also very narrow making it difficult for commuters. The road was unevenly laid without a black top. Construction debris is piled up all along the road adding to commuter’ woes.
 
 It is learnt that even the police are unhappy with the way the traffic is being allowed through the construction site. They have raised issues like lack of complete illumination along the worksite, absence of radium stickers and flag men to regulate traffic and a complete black top road. It was also learnt that Soma - the construction firm - was willing to allow only two-wheelers but they were compelled to allow four wheelers too.
 
 
