PATIALA: Even a fortnight after Punjab minister for Scheduled Castes, backward classes and minority welfare Sadhu Singh Dharamsot met Union minister for social justice and empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot to seek Rs 1,048 crore to release payments for the post-matric scholarships for Scheduled Caste (SC) students, the matter continues to linger on as the scheme in the state has been marred by financial scrutiny ordered after certain irregularities came to the fore.

 Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had also flayed the Centre claiming that it owed Rs 1,100 core to the state in connection with the post-matric scholarship scheme and nothing was being done in this regard.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Dharamsot said under the scheme the Centre was to release a sum of Rs 328.72 crore for 2015-2016 and Rs 719.52 crore for 2016-2017, which had been held back after certain financial irregularities came to fore that had been committed during the tenure of the previous SAD-BJP government.
 
 He added that the financial scrutiny of funds had to be ordered after grants of Rs 115 crore released earlier by the Union government could not be traced and the latter government stalled the grants.
 
 However, the minister claimed that the state government issued user certificate in regard to the amount released by the Central government and placed all records before the union minister for when he met him at Delhi on April 27 along with his principal secretary. But, the funds are yet to be released by the government, he added .
 
 Punjab finance minister   had recently announced in the assembly that the state government had carried out a comprehensive audit of the post-matric scholarship scheme for students belonging to SCs and OBCs after complaints. According to the minister the audit involved 2,183 private institutions with 5,44,872 students and 2,126 government institutions with 5,82,139 students. By March 15, this year, the state had completed the audit of about 47 % beneficiaries and an amount of Rs 329 crore under the said scheme has been pointed out as objectionable.
 
 Meanwhile, the private educational institutions are in a tizzy over the delay in the release of funds claiming that they have already spent huge amounts on providing free education to the SC students by way of salaries paid to the staff and maintenance of the infrastructure. 
 
 
