GURUGRAM: An illustration of how different the universes inhabited by students of government and private schools can be is coming from an unlikely source — a  .

 The implementation of the programme, launched last week in the city by Union health minister JP Nadda, has thrown up a sharp contrast in the two kinds of schools. Nearly all government schools in the district have administered the Albendazole pills students, officials said. But most of the 335 private schools haven’t. Officials said they are waiting for consent from the parents. Government schools, on the other hand, don’t even appear to have given the question of approval much thought, especially since they were implementing a central scheme.
 
 But consent cannot have different rules. If it must be taken, it must be from all. Though Albendazole is a safe drug, a senior doctor in Delhi told TOI taking consent is mandatory under law, no matter what the medicine or medical procedure. “But there is often a huge gulf between what the law states and how programmes are implemented on the ground,” the doctor said. 
 
 Under the initiative jointly implemented by the education and health departments, around 4.2 lakh deworming pills have been distributed in schools across Gurugram. The pills are to be given for free to those up to the age of 19 years between February 10 and February 15.
 
 “Parents were informed about the deworming pills through an SMS. But none has responded. Without their permission, we cannot give the medicine to the kids. Students have been advised about this medicine so that they can tell their parents,” said Deepen Rao, director, Sharda International School.
 
 Vaibhav Kapoor, principal of Ajanta Public School, echoed Rao. “In Rajasthan, many students had fallen sick after taking deworming pills. How can we give it to our kids? We have the drugs but we will not give anything without the parents’ consent,” he added.
 
 Aditi Mishra, principal of DPS in Sector 45, said they had given the pills only after getting parents’ nod. “We have given the pills to the kids and told them that they can have it at their home, in front of their parents,” Mishra said.
 
 Officials claimed the stance taken by private schools poses a serious hurdle for successful implementation of the scheme. “Private schools are not showing interest in the initiative. They are saying they need permission from parents before they give any such pill to their students, even if it comes from the health department. There is no pressure on private schools, but they will have to understand this scheme is for better health of children,” said Anil Parmar, programme coordinator, health department.
 
 Opinion among parents is divided, too. “The scheme is a good move, but consent of parents is essential,” said Sanjeev Dhankar, whose son studies in Class 3 at DPSG Palam Vihar, a private school. But Dinesh Rana, whose son studies in Class VIII at Government School, Sector 4-7, thinks otherwise. “Why does the school need our consent? This is a good move and should be applauded,” he said.
 
 District primary education officer Prem Lata said she would talk to private schools in this regard. “If they don’t give the pills, a complaint will be lodged with the deputy commissioner’s office,” she said.
 
 
