NOIDA: A   to address cyber crimes will soon come up and 300 more traffic marshals will be deployed in the coming days to address the increasing traffic mess in the city. 

 The cyber hub police station of the district will come up in a month's time which will be located at zila panchayat ghar (provided on rent by district administration to the police department) in  , District Magistrate B N Singh and   Ajay Pal Singh said in a meeting with RWA federation on law and order and security measures in the city/district on Sunday at FONRWA office in sector 52.
 
 The meeting which was attended by DM B N Singh, SSP Ajay Pal Sharma, SP traffic Anil Kumar Jha, SP city Arun Kumar Singh, CO 2 Rajiv Kumar Singh, CO 3 Shwetabh Pandey, chief fire officer Arun Kumar Singh, CMO Anurag Bhargava and CMS Ajay Agarwal along with RWA federation members as well as sector RWAs also addressed issues on increased sector patrolling and assigning a nodal officer of the rank of sub inspector to a cluster of residential sectors falling under his chowki/police station to maintain update on security issues relating to the sector. Other issues discussed related to encroachment, waste management, tenant verification, drive against unauthorised paying guests/hotels, unauthorised canteens (without licence) operating in schools and more.
 
 “We have been raising issues of law and order, encroachment, traffic, cyber crimes, increasing police force and measures for fire safety since long and through repeat meetings with successive officials of the police department as well as the district administration. But these have not been addressed to satisfaction or not even taken up in some instances like need for increased police force, sector patrolling, with trained women personnel to deal with crimes against women etc. Till now we’ve only heard lip service despite promises to the contrary. In Sunday’s meeting with DM and SSP we raised all our concerns and sought concrete answers from them,” N P Singh president   (F0NRWA) told TOI.
 
 While stating that crimes such as decoity, murder, kidnapping, chain/mobile snatching, looting from ATMs etc. is on the rise, the RWA federation maintained that the limited police force laced with inadequate support of electronic gadgets and firearms is unable to cope with the pressure. “There’s a need for digital control room in Noida with requisite facilities to monitor appropriate mapping of the necessary locations,” said Singh who also demanded provision for finger-print experts in Noida. “There are no fingerprint experts in Noida. Currently the service is procured from Ghaziabad. Consequently, the crime scene cannot be appropriately monitored with loss of time,” said Singh.
 
 Additional problem exists with low strength of traffic police officials and constables leading to daily traffic snarls on several busy roads. On this, district magistrate B N Singh assured that soon 300 traffic marshals (to be hired by private agency) will be deployed in 15 days to address the issue. “These will be sponsored by Noida authority. Also, CCTV camera will be put across the city soon under corporate social responsibility by corporates. The places where these cameras would be placed will be decided by SP traffic,” said Singh.
 
 While SP traffic Anil Kumar Jha assured a clamp down on daily challans from few hundreds to 25-30 on those violating traffic rules such as using high beam, high speed, wrong side driving etc., action is also taken on unauthorised roaming of e-rickshaws in residential sectors. “Challans being issued by RTO against errant drivers/owners,” said Jha.
 
 On addressing cyber-crimes, DM Singh maintained that “a cyber hub will be created with a dedicated police station catering to cyber-crimes at zila panchayat ghar (which will be provided on rent by district administration to the police department) in Greater Noida. These will address / cater to cyber-crimes,” said Singh even as SSP Ajay Pal Sharma added that the cyber police station would be ready by next month.
 
 While it was agreed that a monthly meeting with sector RWAs will be held by a designated nodal officer (of the level of sub inspector) to be in charge of few sectors falling under his chowki/police station to take feedback from RWAs on the law and order situation of the sector, SSP Sharma assured increased patrolling along with vigorous police verification drive of tenants and service providers.
 
 On residents’ complaints of rampant encroachment in residential sectors and markets by school busses, private commercial vehicles and cab operators along with roadside shopkeepers and kiosk owners, DM Singh assured that “if authority is unable to address the encroachment issue, then action will be taken by district administration as clearing encroachment comes under their purview as well,” said Singh.
 
 DM Singh also apprised residents of stringent actions underway on unauthorised paying guest, guest house accommodations as well as on canteens catering to schools without requisite licence.
 
 To provide benefits of pension to widows and physically challenged, the DM intimated RWAs that they can hold camps for the same in the residential sectors and officials from district administration will facilitate paperwork related to that there. He also gave strict instructions on waste management as well as environment norms to be adhered to under NGT guidelines. “Solid waste management and disposal has to be undertaken under NGT guidelines. Also Noida authority has to ensure clean city with no open dumping of garbage, dust and concrete dumping by builder, else penal action and fines will be levied,” said Singh.
 
