PATNA: More showers and thunderstorms are expected in   and most parts of   over the next three days under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over east Bihar and adjoining West Bengal and Jharkhand.

 The   (IMD) in fact issued a warning on Monday afternoon regarding severe   activity over east and northeast India during the next three-four days.
 
 “Strong low level convergence, moisture incursion and presence of jet speed winds in the upper levels are providing conducive conditions for the occurrence of severe thunder-squalls and heavy rainfall at isolated places over parts of eastern India, comprising West Bengal, Sikkim, Bihar, Odisha and northeastern states,” the IMD’s all- India weather bulletin said and added thunderstorm along with squall and hail were likely over Bihar and Odisha on Tuesday.
 
 On Monday as well, residents of Patna woke up to partly cloudy sky with minimum temperature setting at 17.2 degrees Celsius following thunderstorm activities in the wee hours.
 
 A Patna Meteorological Centre official said the thunderstorm activity originated from north-western part of the state and moved towards eastern regions. The speed of gusty winds was approximately 46kmph.
 
 The Met official said the weather conditions were likely to start dissipating from Wednesday. “Thunderstorm activity accompanied by moderate showers is expected on Tuesday, but westerly winds will start blowing from Wednesday. From May 4, clear skies are expected with temperature likely to rise to 36 degrees C,” the official said.
 
 The Patna Meteorological Centre in its weather bulletin, meanwhile, said thunderstorm or rain or duststorm was likely on May 2 and 3, with minimum and maximum temperatures falling to 18 degrees C and 33 degrees C respectively.
 
 The trough line, on the other hand, was passing through Mughalsarai in UP and had moved towards Bihar, covering areas like Buxar, Ara, Chhapra and Siwan. It was headed towards Begusarai and Bhagalpur on Monday.
 
 Dr Pradhan Parth Sarthi, associate professor at the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, Central University of South Bihar, said such thunderstorm activity was a regular phenomenon in this season. “But the frequency of thunderstorm activity this year has been higher in parts of eastern UP and Bihar. The temperature was hovering around 40 degrees C at most places in Bihar for the past few days, but winds blowing from north-west region can be said to be one of the reasons for thunder-showers and fall in temperatures.
 
 
