Boreli fish has this peculiar smell, which can be easily subdued while cooking shukto by adding a bit of warm ghee. It also accentuates the flavours of the various vegetables and reduces the bitterness of the dish,” 47-year-old Nilambar Pati, aka Jata, told us while cooking on a bhiyen (earthen oven). He added that he had picked up this tip from his grandfather around 35 years back, when he was still an apprentice. “So, one should never cook boreli maachher shukto without using ghee,” he advised us with a smile.
Jata is currently leading a team of seven   cooks who are brewing up, among other things, long-forgotten Bengali delights, which can be ordered through the State Fisheries Development Corporation (SFDC) mobile app, Smart Fish. “The app has been around for a while now. While people could earlier order raw fish, we are launching cooked dishes from Poila Boishakh,” SDFC managing director Soumyajit Das informed us. The app is now offering 110 odd Bengali fish dishes, which includes forgotten recipes like boreli maachher shukto and bektir chirer pulao. And everything is being prepared by Jata and his team in the centralised Bengali kitchen of SFDC at  . 
 
 
 Jata came from   to Calcutta when he was 14 to help his grandfather, who was a professional cook. Even his father used to cook at a boy’s hostel canteen in Balasore and his uncle had his own catering business in Calcutta. A couple of years later, Jata was hired by an affluent Bengali family in Ultadanga. “The family had migrated from   in the ’50s but had retained their food habits. The women in the family taught me how to cook a number of   dishes like aam shole,” Jata told us, adding that he quit the job a few years later and started freelancing with catering firms. “Finally, I started cooking bhog for different Durga Pujas in Kolkata and made a name for myself. But whatever I could cook then, I had learnt from my father and grandfather. They were the real teachers in my life,” he added.
 Another member of the team, Suresh Panda, aka Jamai, is a second-generation cook who came to Kolkata in the mid-’90s. “My father worked for a number of Bengali families and taught me many authentic Bengali recipes. But when I came to Kolkata, the trend of Bengali households employing cooks was dying, so I tried my luck with catering companies. On rare occasions, someone would ask me to make authentic Bengali dishes and I’d surprise them with my father recipes,” he told us. 
  
  
 Team member Dhananjay Pradhan had also come to the city in the early ’90s and worked for a Girish Park-based Marwari family for over seven years. After he quit the job, he too started working for a catering firm, until Jata asked him to join his team a few months back.
 
 
 At a time when recipes are available at the click of a mouse, Jata and his team rely solely on what they had learnt from their ancestors. Moreover, the recipes of most of the dishes they cook aren’t available on the internet. Jata, for instance, cooks boreli maachher shukto exactly the way his grandfather had taught him. Jamai, too, stirs up koi maachher alu posto, another age-old Bengali dish, drawing from inherited knowledge. “I learnt this dish from my father, who worked for a number of Bengali families in north Kolkata in the ’70s and was an expert in Bengali cuisine,” he said. 
  Even Tapan Mohanty, a third-generation cook from Jaleswar, makes the chapilar batichachhari following the instructions passed down by his uncle. “He had once casually asked me to cook this dish when I was 15. I had done a decent job under his supervision, but it was not even close what he used to make. The second time, when I made it for a Bengali family, it was far better. So, when I was asked to make it here, I didn’t have much problem remembering the recipe,” Tapan added.
 
 
 Most of these cooks are equally good at preparing Bengali dishes from both side of the border. They are aware that people from West Bengal like their chingrimaachher malaikari a bit on the sweeter side, while Bangals prefer spicy curry of small fish. But most of them agreed that Bangal dishes are better because they are easier and can be prepared faster. Tapan cited batichachhari as an example. “It takes no more than 15 minutes to cook. I just love it,” he said with a smile.
  
  
 Jamai, however, spoke up for Ghoti cuisine and shared a very interesting example. He said in people in Bangladesh boast of chitol muitha, but a very similar dish — chingrir kofta — exists in West Bengal. “In chitol muitha, boiled potato is used as a binder. In chingri kofta, we use boiled raw banana to bind the shredded prawns. It’s equally tasty, if not more,” he said.
 
 
 When we asked them how they could remember such old Bengali recipes, which are almost forgotten by the Bengali community, they said cooking is in the blood of Odia people and that they can cook almost any dish in the first try itself. Jata, however, said something entirely different. According to him cooking had been a very popular profession in   for centuries now, and all members of many Odia families are cooks. “So, a child is born in such a family grows up listening to discussions about cooking and food and picks up the nuances instinctively,” he said, adding that the current generation, however, is not interested in the profession.
  
  
 
 
 SFDC officials were all praise for the cooks. “I believe they have a god-gifted talent. I became even more sure after I first tasted Jata’s cooking at a food mela a few years back. I immediately decided to hire him for our kitchen,” Soumyajit Das told us. 
 Swagatam Mitra, the restaurant and bar in-charge at the Nalban Food Park who has years of experience in the hospitality industry, said it’s extremely easy to work and communicate with Odia cooks. “They know what we want from a particular dish and what kind of taste we are expecting. And when it comes to old Bengali dishes, I don’t think anyone can match their skills,” he added.
 
 
