KOLKATA: The   order, putting the onus on individual officials for loss of lives and damage to property, if the count surpasses the violence scale of the 2013  , was received with anxiety and apprehension at the state secretariat. The implications of the 30-page order was being “minutely examined”, a senior police officer said.

  
  
 
 The state home (police) department has submitted reports to the Calcutta High Court and the   (SEC) that were signed by senior home department bureaucrats. “The home department has submitted two security-related reports, one to the   and the other to the HC. The SEC endorsed the security report and submitted it to the HC. All these reports were sent by senior state officials. We are going through the order in details,” a senior police officer said. “Security arrangements are made on an assessment. While there are various ways to interpret this, an assessment is not an act of omission or commission. An assessment can go wrong. Take for example the case of Jammu and Kashmir. Given the backdrop, we need to understand the order thoroughly before reacting.”
 
 Election analyst Biswanath Chakraborty pointed out that it was rather difficult to pin down individual violent incidents, which were fallout of an election. “Neither the SEC nor any recognised statutory body compiles figures for poll-day violence and deaths. Even media reports are disputed by the authorities, citing several reasons, personal enmity being one. During the 2013 panchayat polls, the SEC had once told an HC division bench that 14 pre-election deaths had taken place. But if media reports were any indication, the figure climbed multiple-fold by the time the poll process got over. Neither the state nor the SEC has any published record of the total number of deaths, injuries and loss of property during the 2013 panchayat polls,” Chakraborty said.
 
 The HC order on docking retirement benefits of senior state and SEC officials, a police officer pointed out, clearly mentioned: “In case it is found their decision was not fair and unbiased and submission of such report before the court and/or approval by the state election commissioner, was communicated to the court only to mislead the court about the adequacy of such security arrangement.” The HC ordered that the compensation would be realised from the salary and retirement benefits of those officers. Even their personal properties could be attached and sold, the HC said.
 
 Another officer argued, “By affirming any affidavit in the court, it is understood the facts stated are true. There has been no covert or overt attempt to mislead the court. Such an act can also be deemed offence under The Oaths Act, 1969.” He added that an officer filing any affidavit on the government’s behalf also had to affirm that he or she was aware of the facts of the case and thereafter made their plea. “It is the individual, and not an institution, who is taking this oath,” he said. Another officer said, “The legalities of the panchayat security and dates involved the SEC and the state government.”
 
