THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Window period still seems to be the elusive part while screening the blood collected at government hospitals to determine HIV cases. None of the hospitals in Kerala have a foolproof mechanism to detect HIV positive status.

 This assumes significance after a nine-year-old girl from  , who allegedly tested HIV positive after undergoing a blood transfusion at Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) in Thiruvananthapuram, died in April. Recently, the parents of another 14-year-old child from Idukki alleged that their child died in March after allegedly contracting HIV during a blood transfusion at RCC.
 
 
  
 
 “In medical science, it is a fact that we do not have a foolproof mechanism in India. The latest technology – which reduces the window period is Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (NAAT) that is not available in state government hospitals. We have only fourth generation ELISA tests which is now available only at RCC and Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology,” said director of Kerala State AIDS Control Society (KSACS) Dr R Ramesh.
 
 Even National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) does not have a complete formula to cover the window period and has implemented only tests that can reduce the window period risks. NAAT assures that the wind period can be reduced to 7 to 11 days. The fourth generation ELISA test assures only a window period of 2-4 weeks.
 
 “Here is our problem. Unless we promote safer voluntary blood donation and people prefer blood donation from their relatives, we will be at risk. KSACS is creating more awareness to promote voluntary blood donation. We are going to meet all CEOs and other department heads to promote voluntary blood donation in their organizations,” he said.
 
 Health minister  , who is worried over the alleged recent controversies, has decided to implement more stringer screening mechanisms at government hospitals. “Government hospitals see a huge demand for blood and a large volume of blood donations happen here. We need more stringent measures to screen donors,” she said.
 
 The volume of blood collected in a hospital like RCC is unimaginable. “RCC is perhaps the only hospital in Kerala where many blood transfusions occur and it has one of the biggest blood storage facilities. We collect blood from people and blood components are separated after a series of tests,” said Dr CV Prashanth, RCC, palliative medicine.
 
 Blood transfusions always carry certain risks, but HIV transmission during the process can be prevented. This can be achieved by setting up and maintaining a safe blood transfusion system and using blood appropriately. Ensure that the blood is screened for transfusion transmitted infections (TTI) such as HIV, hepatitis, malaria or presence of rare antibodies. The chance of HIV transmission through HIV-infected blood transfusion is 100%.
 
 “The only way to promote safe blood donation is voluntary blood donation and receiving blood from repeated donors. Regular donors are safer since their blood will be checked and screened periodically. During emergency, most people prefer blood from strangers, which carries a risk,” said Dr Prashanth.
 
 So, what is the solution? “Introduce NAAT facility in major hospitals like RCC and Sree Chitra. But adopting this technology is costly and the test for a unit of blood will be Rs 1,000,” said Dr Ramesh.
 
 KSACS, which closely monitors blood banks in state, has detected HIV positive cases in received blood. “In 2017, we received 3,72,000 units of blood of which 2,45,000 units were received at government blood banks. We encountered 260 HIV positive cases following the screening tests. These were discarded and donors were brought to our centre for treatment,” said Dr Ramesh.” KSACS is now promoting counsellors at blood banks to screen donors and find whether they belong to any kind of high-risk categories.
 
