CHANDIGARH: With around 13 people dying due to cancer in   everyday last year, the spread of the dreaded disease has reached alarming proportions in the state. A statement presented by Haryana health minister Anil Vij in the assembly during the budget session mentioned that 2017 saw the   (4,592) in the state since 2013.

  
  district had the highest   at 771, followed by Jind (441) and Rohtak (354). The data also showed that cancer deaths had been reported from all districts of Haryana.
 
 In January this year, the state saw 337 cancer deaths with 51 people dying in Jind alone. Vij was responding to a question by INLD’s Julana MLA Parminder Dhull who sought details of cancer deaths in his assembly constituency.
 
 Dhull, who claimed that one village in his constituency saw 60 cancer deaths, asked Vij about financial aid to the cancer patients for their treatment.
 
 Deaths due to cancer were highest last year since the Haryana health department had started screening for cancer cases in 2013. With the number of afflicted people increasing, the government set up special screening centres at all government hospitals with additional facilities being set up at the hospitals in Ambala, Karnal, Bhiwani, Hisar and Rohtak. “Government is equally worried about the spread of cancer.
 
 Besides announcing free travel facility for the patients, we have made enough arrangements within the state for the diagnosis and treatment in all postgraduate medical colleges and specialized centres,” said the health minister.
 
 Mahila Congress leader and party’s spokesperson Ranjeeta Mehta termed the government claims about facilities for treatment of cancer as mere announcements. “We have closely monitored the incidence. The government which could not clear the backlog of vacancies in the health department and has almost negligible retention of oncologists, how do you expect an action plan from it? Had it been serious, it would have carried out special drives to check the real cancer-affected areas,” she said.
 
 
