In the latest episode of  ,   and   are at the roof top of the palace for the tests. He asks Parul to throw a stone in such a way that it touches the nearby tree.

 Taking the advantage of his poor eyesight Parul replaces the stone with the yellow bird she has brought. The bird flies and sits on the branch of the nearby tree. She successfully completes the third task. Buro Baba is pleased with her performance. He starts believing that Parul is a giant.
 
  is worried as they haven’t returned yet. Raghav roams around the palace to find out Parul. Nobody notices as Parul shrunk him.
 
  on the other hand, is also roaming around the kingdom. Mallicka asks her servants to take her to the room where she used to play.
 
 Raghav is in his room and seeing Mallicka entering the room Raghav stands still. And Mallicka thinks it’s a toy. Raghav fears that Mallicka might recognise him and applies some powder on his face. Mallicka asks her servants about the toy (as she can’t remember whether it’s hers). One of the servants informs her that it might be Buro Baba’s toy.
 
 On the other hand, Parul and Buro Baba come back to his room. He gives her a magic wand. Parul gets tensed as she couldn’t find Raghav in the room.
 
 She informs Buro Baba that she has turned a human being into a toy but she is not being able to find the same. 
 
 Buro Baba is worried that Hirimbamalla might kill Parul. He suggests that she should look like other giants so that they don’t recognize her.
 
 Mallicka decides to give the toy (Raghav) back to Buro Baba, who is her grandfather.
 
 Parul disguises herself as a giant and Mallicka couldn’t recognize her. She meets Buro Baba who is very happy to see her. Parul is glad that Raghav is alright.
 
 Mallicka informs Buro Baba that she has turned Suryanagar into a giant’s kingdom. Parul is shocked to know about it. 
 
 Mallicka also informs Buro Baba about her intention to sacrifice Parul’s life so that she can become a complete giant. She also informs him that she wants to kill her tomorrow during solar eclipse.
 
 The king Hirimbamalla decides to recruit Tarasur, a deadly giant for the security of the giant’s kingdom during the eclipse as the giants would lose their power during the event.
 
 Mallicka also informs Buro Baba that she has turned Parul’s brothers into flowers and kept them at seven different places which are not easily reachable.
 
 As soon as Mallicka leaves, Parul asks Buro Baba about the Champa flower but he refuses to let her go to the garden and see it.
 
