CHANDIGARH:   has issued asked to all divisional forest officers (DFOs) to inspect all timber markets under their jurisdiction regularly to keep a check on illegal felling of trees.

 The state’s principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF), Jitender Sharma, has also clarified it should not be construed that there was a blanket ban on felling of trees across Punjab by the   (NGT). “Frmers are free to cut trees on their land without permission, except in Kandi areas,” he said.
 
 The PCCF has issued directions to DFOs for inspection of timber markets after receiving some complaints about illegal felling of trees. “I have issued the directive in the larger interest to check illegal felling of trees. When I get inputs from people in society, it is my job to look into the inputs and use them for conservation of trees,” he said.
 
 Sangrur-based environmentalist Dr Amandeep Aggarwal, who approached the NGT earlier and flagged the issue, had also brought to Sharma’s notice that several trees were being felled illegally and the wood was being transported to timber markets. Sharma said Aggarwal had spoken to me. “I have clarified to him that though the NGT enforced restrictions on felling of trees in May 2016, it should not be interpreted as a blanket ban,” he said.
 
 Sharma said NGT had directed Punjab government and project proponents that they could not indulge in felling trees without NGT’s permission and it was not an absolute ban. “It also needs to be understood that it is a ban on the state government and project proponents. It is not a ban on any farmer who grows eucalyptus or poplar trees on his land. Whatever he grows, he can fell without anyone’s permission, except in Kandi areas,” said Sharma.
 
 In other states, laws prohibit people from cutting down trees on their own land without getting permission from the authorities concerned. But in Punjab, it is not so, except a specific area in the Kandi belt where there are private forests and people cannot fell trees even on their land without government’s permission, said Sharma. “After NGT’s ban, we have not given any permission to fell trees in the Kandi belt,” he said.
 
 The senior IFS officer added that the   had allow the Punjab government to fell trees twice for constructing roads and establishing projects. When the state government approached the NGT, it permitted the government to axe around 24,000 trees for widening the road from Phagwara to Ropar. Even when the Kandi area farmers approached the NGT, it had directed the forest department to mark the trees and report to the NGT. Thereafter, the NGT permitted felling of trees in the Kandi belt also in some areas, informed Sharma.
 
 
