NAGPUR: The greatness of Babasaheb Ambedkar can be assessed by the fact that the   penned by him has stood the test of time even after seven decades of its drafting, said advocate   Aney, also a staunch protagonist of separate Vidarbha.

 According to  , it is a challenging job to create a law which goes down well with a vast and diverse country like ours. Many of them failed to get implemented effectively and exist only as ideas, like the laws governing child marriage, female foeticide and rapes.
 
 He was speaking as the chief guest during the birth anniversary celebrations of Ambedkar, organized by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Smruti Samiti of Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM) at Indira Bhavan, Civil Lines, on Thursday.
 
 Aney said, “The book of Constitution not just describes how India would function but also decides the judicial approach that it will have.”
 
 Highlighting Ambedkar’s views on a separate Vidarbha, Aney said, “He was in favour of division of Maharashtra into smaller states like Vidarbha, Marathwada and more, not just on the basis of language. He stood for ‘one state, one language’ and not ‘one language, one state’, which means there could be more than one Marathi speaking state.”
 
 In her address, legal luminary Kumkum Sirpurkar emphasized the importance of Hindu Code Bill introduced by Ambedkar and said that it was the first time that laws for marriage, divorce, succession, adoption and maintenance were made which provided respite to many women. She said, “Babasaheb gave the definition of Hindu and said that anyone who is not a Muslim, Christian, Parsee or Jew falls under the umbrella of the code.”
 
 Sirpurkar also believed that instead of remembering the legendary man by lighting candles for him and garlanding his portraits, every citizen should learn and follow his philosophy because he is not just a leader of the Dalits, but the entire country.
 
 Sirpurkar also discussed the system of separation of powers which has helped in maintaining a subtle balance and smooth functioning of the nation.
 
 
