MUMBAI: Four people, who had hopped off a stationary train at a signal near  , lost their lives after being hit by another local on the adjacent track early on Monday. The victims—three of them students—were related. They intended to take a shortcut across the tracks and walk to Poisar nearby, where one of them had a house. 

 The victims have been identified as Sagar Chavan (23), Dattaprasad Chavan (20), Saiprasad Chavan (17) and   (17). They were returning from Konkan and carrying their luggage along. 
 
 Sagar lived in Poisar with his parents. He was employed as a driver with   functionary from Kandivli Vinod Pawar. Dattaprasad and Saiprasad were siblings and lived in Phondaghat, Sindhudurg district. Dattaprasad was pursuing a diploma in mechanical engineering and was in the last year at a college in Gargoti, Kolhapur district while Saiprasad was studying in the first year at Kalaniketan art school, Kolhapur. Manoj, also a Phondaghat resident, had recently cleared his class XI exams. 
  
  
 ''Sagar had gone to Konkan to attend a friend's wedding last week. When he was to return to Mumbai, his cousins decided to join him. The trio wanted to go sightseeing in Mumbai," said a GRP officer. One of Sagar's friends from Poisar, Prashant Rane, was also travelling to Mumbai from Konkan. He boarded a train from Sindhudurg but it was packed with travellers. Rane then spoke to Sagar on phone and advised him to board some other train instead. Sagar and his cousins got into the   on Sunday. They reached Dadar Terminus early on Monday and changed to a local heading towards Borivli.
 
 At 5.38am, the down local halted at a signal between Borivli and Kandivli stations close to Poisar. "Preliminary investigations have revealed that the four boys hopped off the stationary train to head home on foot as it was located only a few minutes away. But unknown to them, a Churchgate-bound local arrived on the adjacent track. The Churchgate-bound train is believed to have hit the men as it passed by before they could cross the tracks. All four have sustained identical injuries on the back of their heads. Three of them landed one over the other in a pile near a railway pole. The stationmaster informed us and we rushed the victims to   where they were declared dead," said a GRP officer.
 
 Vinod Pawar received a phone call from the cops after the incident. "My daughter-in-law answered the call and told me Sagar had met with an accident. Sagar had sent me a text around 4.30am informing me of his arrival in Mumbai. He worked for me for the past five months and was a good driver," said Pawar. Pawar visted Sagar’s mother and sisters in Poisar. Sagar's father is at the family's hometown. 
 
 "After an autopsy, bodies of all four victims were taken to Sindhudurg for their funeral," said a relative, Dashrath Chavan. "Saiprasad, Dattaprasad and Manoj had visited Mumbai in the past but were not well-versed with local train travel. They may have followed Sagar's instructions. We want the police to conduct a thorough investigation to rule out any other cause for the deaths," he added. 
 
 The police found the victims' belongings on the tracks. They are now hunting for eyewitnesses to the accident. The statement of the motorman, whose train knocked down the men, is also to be recorded. 
 
 
 
 
 Numerous campaigns initiated by the railways have failed to deter track crossing, which continues to be the biggest killer on Mumbai railways. 
 
 Of the 3,014 deaths recorded last year, 1,651 (which comes to 55%) were a result of track crossing. 
 
 Activists say the absence of acontinuous boundary wall leads to people taking shortcuts across the tracks to head home or to work. 
 
 The four commuters, who lost their lives in Monday’s mishap, had also taken a shortcut to walk down to Poisar. 
 
 “There is a ‘kachha’ path next to Poisar subway, which commuters use for reaching the railway tracks. Most trains heading towards north Mumbai halt at the signal near Poisar subway, between Borivli and Kandivli stations. Poisar residents hop off these trains, once they halt, and cross the tracks to reach the ‘kachha’ path. This is risky as trains pass in both directions at high speed but they throw caution to the wind,” said a senior GRP official. 
 
 Track crossing is a penal offence. The railways have tried every tactic to deter track crossing—from stringent prosecution, to making announcements and playing jingles in trains, handing roses to shame offenders, dressing up RPF personnel as ‘Yamraj’ (God of death) to drill sense into offenders and putting up graphic signs near tracks, but nothing works. 
 
 “We need more than three foot overbridges (FoBs) per platform and maximum escalators so commuters are not tempted to hop across tracks. Deploying more uniformed personnel, creating better infrastructure and building boundary walls throughout the railway network are the only solutions,” said an activist. 
 
 Last year, Kalyan GRP reported the highest number of deaths due to track crossing (223 instances out of total 1,651 track crossing deaths). 
 
 
 
