VISAKHAPATNAM: The   ( ) is mulling to seek the approval of its board to extend the deadline for the preparation of master   and zonal development plans for   Metropolitan Region Development Authority ( ).

 Vuda had embarked on this mammoth exercise in 2016 after the extent of VMRDA (which would replace Vuda) was increased to 6,764 sq km from its 1,721 sq km area.
 
 The master plan outlines a development vision of VMRDA and its planning framework for the future, including housing strategies, conservation zones, industrial development plans, transportation plans, environmental sustainable plans, public amenities and service plans, integration of erstwhile Vuda master plans, and business plans.
 
 A private agency has been entrusted with the responsibility of creating the master plan and zonal development plans for VMRDA-2041 (with a planning horizon of 25 years). The master plan works commenced in August 2016, which were originally scheduled to be concluded in two years by August 2018. However, the project has not entered the draft report stage. According to Vuda officials, they procured latest satellite imagery instead of 2012-based imageries as per the directions of  , which delayed the master plan process by several months. Now, it may take another four to five months to prepare the preliminary draft master plan report.
 
 Vuda vice-chairman P Basanth Kumar said they might recruit some exclusive staff to assist Vuda in master plan preparation. “We will take Vuda Board’s view on extending the deadline for master plan preparation,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Vuda has been conducting focus group meetings with all stakeholders as part of the master plan preparation. The agency has concluded field surveys, traffic surveys, workplace-based studies, heritage and conservation surveys, and household surveys.
 
 Vuda is yet to get the state government’s nod to get VMRDA status. The process was delayed due to difference of opinion over merger of new areas. VMRDA would emerge as the second largest urban development authority in Andhra Pradesh after CRDA.
 
 
