KOLKATA: Several questions raised by the Calcutta High Court Chief Justice over security plans for Bengal’s single-phase panchayat election and a separate order by another bench of the same court —to accept nomination papers filed over email — have deepened the uncertainty over whether the vote can happen next Monday.

 The two developments, which came on Tuesday, meant the State Election Commission would have to wait for two more days — for a division bench order on Thursday — to know whether Bengal’s 5.8 crore-strong rural electorate would be able to vote four days later. This uncertainty over voting day — when things may get resolved just 96 hours before that — was unprecedented in Bengal’s electoral history, officials admitted on Tuesday.
 
  
 The SEC, unhappy with the HC directive to allow nominations sent by email, is set to move the   on Wednesday. A division bench of Justice Biswanath Somadder and Justice Arindam Mukherjee directed it on Tuesday to accept all mailed nominations filed within the stipulated date. This queers the pitch for the SEC; it will now have to scrutinise the extra nominations and then print fresh ballot papers if these nominations withstand scrutiny. So the SEC decided to keep these seats — that saw mailed nominations — out of the May 14 poll schedule. It will continue with its poll plans as scheduled.
 
 But the doubts expressed by Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya, during another hearing later on Tuesday, complicated things further for the SEC. “Don’t you think this is inadequate?” he asked in response to the state’s plan to deploy two cops—one armed and the other lathi-wielding—at each of the 47,100 polling booths.
 
 State advocate-general Kishore Dutta defended the formula. The state government report to the court also stated it would mobilise an additional 2,000 armed personnel from other states, which would take available forces to 1.53 lakh (including the state’s 80,000 civic volunteers). Dutta added armed forces deployed for this poll would be more than the deployment in the 2013 election.
 
 The CJ turned to SEC counsel Saktinath Mukherjee and asked him whether the SEC could requisition central forces, prompting state advocate-general Dutta to contend that poll security arrangements were the domain of the state government and the SEC. SEC counsel Mukherjee, too, told the court that the poll panel was satisfied with the government’s plan.
 
 The bench then asked senior counsel and   leader Bikash Bhattacharya whether the court could do anything if the SEC was satisfied with the government’s plan. Bhattacharya said the violence, witnessed during nominations and still continuing, proved the inadequacy of security. “How will civic volunteers ensure security when cops flee if chased by ruling party supporters?” Bhattacharya asked. He also accused the state government of drawing up the security plan when the court had directed the SEC to consult “major collective stakeholders” (political parties).
 
 PDS lawyer Sabyasachi Chatterjee drew the court’s attention to the quality of available forces. “Civic volunteers can’t give voters confidence,” Chatterjee said. PDS secretary Samir Putatunda pointed out that civic volunteers did not enjoy the status of government employees. “Are we heading for an election with civic volunteers, excise inspectors and forest guards?” Putatunda asked.
 
 
