AHMEDABAD: Even as many professionally-run companies have come up in  , heads of family-owned businesses see ample growth prospects for companies managed by the founding family members.

  They, however, also agree that there are challenges in businesses run by families but still growth opportunities are far greater than the challenges.
 
 “You get a lot of confidence when family is with you. There are challenges in such companies but opportunities are much bigger. Most of the companies in Surat’s diamond industry are family-run firms,” said Ghanshyam Dholakia, one of the founders of   Exports.   was speaking at a session on challenges and opportunities in family business at Global Patidar Business Summit 2018 being held in  .
 
  
  Quoting a research report that around 85% businesses in the world are family-run, Jayantibhai Patel, one of the founders of Ahmedabad-based Meghmani Organics, said, “Only 30% of family businesses survive till the second generation takes over and the percentage trickles down to just 10% by the time the third generation chips in.”
 
 According to Patel, there is ample scope of growth for family-run entities but families also need to align with changing times. 
 
 The founders should take advisory roles and fix roles and responsibilities of the next generation. “There should be a succession plan in place,” he added.
 
 “One has to take a practical approach and change with the time. Younger generations in family business should be given free hand. Strong family bonding has led to creation of the ‘Balaji’ brand,” Rajkot-based Balaji Wafers’ founder and director Chandubhai Virani said at the summit, which is a first of its kind community centric business event.
 
 Moderating the session, Mukesh Patel, eminent international tax expert, said that there is need to see the world with new perspective.
 
  ”The letters in the word Patidars stand for passionate, adventurous, trustworthy, industrious, dynamic, affectionate and resourceful,” he said.
 
 
