GURUGRAM: Cops claimed to have busted a fake call centre running in   on Friday. Two persons were also arrested and an FIR was filed against them.

 The accused have been identified as Akshay Kumar Dalal, the owner of the call centre, and Tuhin, the manager. Dalal, originally from UP, was living in Sector 23. 
 
 A team of six police officers, along with two sub-inspectors from Udyog Vihar police station, raided the call centre located in Phase 2 after a tip-off. A police report filed after the raid said the centre used to defraud people by claiming to provide services for “life insurance, as well as technical help to foreigners”.
 
 When the team reached the call centre, several men were found sitting in front of computers and talking on the phone in English, the report said.
 
 Cops then went up to the cabin of the owner and sought the licence issued by the department of telecommunications for operating the call centre. Akshay was arrested after he failed to produce the licence and other relevant documents.
 
 “We asked the employees to stand up on their spots. Tuhin identified himself as the floor manager, while five employees also submitted their names to police,” the report stated. 
 
 Cops seized the company servers and arrested Tuhin as well. The employees were detained and released after questioning. An FIR was registered against Akshay and Tuhin under Section 40 (cheating) of IPC and Section 66D (punishment for cheating by impersonation using a computer resource) of IT Act at Udyog Vihar police station.
 
 A police source said that several such call centres were involved in stealing sensitive customer data and further selling it to other companies.
 
 Earlier this year, a call centre operating out of Udyog Vihar was raided for routing money through illegal channels and working without authorisation. Around 33 people, including call centre employees, were arrested in this raid. In December last year, cops had busted a fake job racket running out of another unauthorised call centre.
 
 
