KOLKATA: A sudden spurt in Sitala Pujas, which even a couple of years ago used to be restricted to certain pockets, has become a major headache for police and south Kolkata residents.

 
 “This is a recent development. Just like the local committees of the previous ruling party, the current one wanted to have maximum involvement at the grassroots level. These pujas helped. Also, unlike in  , where local construction and labour syndicates are forced to play a second fiddle, here, those groups can flaunt money and flash their contacts. The very fact that   can be held at any time comes as a bonus. The goodwill earned here brings in commerce,” said a senior Lalbazar officer.
 
 With hundreds of local clubs and temples entering the fray, festivities often stretch up to 10 days. Complete with baul and DJ nights, the Pujas are a money-spinner. And, trouble follows hard on the heels of the extravagant celebrations. Last year, at least three major clashes broke out among rival organizations at Charu Market, Manoharpukur area and   over organizing “DJ nights”.
 
 Things came to such a pass that the Tollygunge police had to call the different organizers and draft a timetable for each. Pointing out that the clubs did stick to the timetable till around five weeks ago, the police said they feared that in June—once the embargo on auspicious activities, according to the Hindu calendar, is gone—they might be “pressured” into granting permissions for simultaneous celebrations for multiple organizers. The Haridevpur police and Kasba police have issued clear instructions to ensure no violence erupts over the pujas.
 
 Under the Tollygunge police station, 16 Sitala Pujas were held between April and June. “On June 3 last year, residents of the Manaharpukur slum and Lokar Math were involved in a pitched battle, in which 25 people were injured. Calls poured in from old-timers and residents of high-rises, complaining about noise pollution and subscription demands. We decided to deploy cops for different organizers, like Manaharpukur, Lokar Math, 54 Basti and Jai Matadi,” said an officer from south division.
 
  residents   cannot bear the thought of the loudspeakers blasting through the day and night. “When the celebration continued till after 11pm, our housing society complained to the police and there was some respite. But the next day, the security guard was threatened,” Kapoor said.
 
  
  
 
