Ludhiana: It was all over for three history-sheeters, who had been inmates in the central jail once and had formed a gang thereafter to dupe people impersonating as CIA sleuths, as police busted the gang and arrested six of its members on Friday. 

 Those arrested included a woman and a suspended Punjab Police constable.
 
 The police have also recovered two police uniforms, two cars, two motorcycles, one country-made pistol and one toy pistol and a sharp-edged weapon.
 
 The gang, whose members also posed as sleuths of special task force (STF) and anti-narcotics wing, was involved in extorting money from people by threatening to implicate them in forged cases of drug peddling and gambling. The accused were hatching a conspiracy at a vacant plot in   village, when the police arrested them.
 
 The arrested accused have been identified as   of Nolri village of Khanna, Dalwinder Singh of Bilga village of Sahnewal, Jagpreet Singh of Mandi Ahmadgarh, Surinder Singh of  , suspended cop   Singh of Rajguru Nagar and Gurmeet Kaur of Mandi Ahmadgarh, wife of Jagpreet Singh. Another accused –– Nikka of Gobind Nagar of Daba area –– is absconding.
 
 A case under Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity), 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoity), 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent) of the IPC and 25/27/54/59 of the Arms Act has been registered at Sadar police station.
 
 DCP (investigation)   said the accused used to target people randomly. Jaswant Singh used to raid a house in police uniform on the pretext of checking and used to threaten them that the police have information that they have hidden heroin in their home.
 
 Meanwhile, other members would sit in a car impersonating as senior officials. Thereafter, the accused used to extort money from them as bribe for not taking action against them.
 
 “It has also been identified that the accused used to extort money from scrap dealers and lottery stall owners every week. Besides, Gurmeet Kaur used to accompany the gang as a woman constable. We are questioning the accused to get information about all the crimes they committed,” he added.
 
 The accused Jaswant Singh is already facing trial in two cases of liquor smuggling and snatching. Dalviner Singh alias Lalli has been facing trial in 13 cases including theft, extortion, drug peddling and cheating. Ranjit Singh is also facing trial in drug peddling case. They had met in the jail and formed a gang, the DCP said.
 
 The DCP said Ranjit was suspended as constable when he was arrested with 5g heroin. He was in touch with the gang for the past one month and used to loot people before his suspension. He has also helped the gang to get uniforms and conduct raids in an authentic way.
 
 
