BHUBANESWAR: The state government is planning to install   cameras in examination centres across Odisha from next year for the smooth conduct of Plus II examinations. The objective is to keep a close watch on the examinees and prevent people from indulging in malpractices during exams. 

 The announcement was made by Amarendra Kumar Patnaik, chairman of the   ( ), here on Saturday. He said the council has already discussed the issue with the state government. 
 
 "The installation of CCTV cameras will help instil a sense of fear in the students, teachers and parents who try to help their wards in answering the questions," said Patnaik. He added that the council has already installed CCTVs in 202 examination management hubs (EMHs) in the state. EMHs are created to manage the examinations under its jurisdiction. The question papers have been kept at the hubs under CCTV surveillance and tight security. 
 
 Now the idea is in the planning stage. "If the state government implements the project, it will create a revolution in the field of examination management. This will help bring down the number of malpractices," said Patnaik.
 
 He also spoke about the elaborate arrangements for the Plus II examinations that will be held between March 6 and 29. Altogether 3, 65,826 candidates from four streams of 1539 junior colleges or higher secondary schools will appear for the examinations in 1104 examination centres. While 2,33,978 students will be writing the examination in the arts stream, altogether 96,175 students will be appearing for the exam from the science stream, 27,447 from commerce and 8,226 students from vocational streams.
 
 The first phase of question papers have reached the 202 EMHs. "We will deploy flying squads at the state, zonal and the district level to prevent the use of unfair means in the examination. Besides, the EMHs will send observers to the examination centres for inspection," said  , controller of examination, CHSE. 
 
 He said the council and district administration will keep a strict vigil on the conduct of the examination. "All cases of malpractice and indiscipline will be taken very seriously. Except the examination centre superintendent, centre officials, teachers, employees, squad members and the candidates cannot use mobile phones at the centres," he added. Sources in the council said the evaluation process will start from the first week of April, while the results will be out by May 20. The results of the science stream will be published first, they said.
 
