High on New Year fervour, Hyderabadis did not shy away from giving a tipsy welcome to 2018, but an alarming number of them ventured out on the roads, driving drunk. The number of drunk driving cases booked in the city this year doubled compared to last year. “Over 2200 cases were booked this year, it is double of last year’s figure of around 900,” informed DCP AV Ranganath of  .

 Sources also inform that this year, women did not shy away from grabbing the wheel after getting drunk and quite a few of them were also apprehended. The spike in cases were 
 recorded in Hyderabad limits, where as   clocked a lower figure than last year. Looks like the party-goers of Cyberabad were smarter as just 583 drunk drivers were caught. Many, like Bipin Saxena switched to cabs or opted for resorts and outstations. “We chose to stay back at a guest house nearby to avoid driving and getting caught. That way it avoids all the hassle,” informs Bipin, a businessman who lives in Qutubullahpur. 
 
 The police officials believe that increased awareness about the perils of drunk driving has resulted in the dip in numbers. “We witnessed a significant dip in the number of drunk driving cases this year. The accused can get jail time of anywhere between a day to 30 days if caught drunk driving. We have taken video evidences and confiscated the vehicles of those caught,” 
 informed DCP AR Srinivas, DCP Traffic, Cyberabad Limits. 
 
 
 
 Hopp, a Hyderabad-based app service clocked over 1200 rides in the city. “For us, the response has been overwhelming. Apart from previously registered users, many party goers booked the apps right after the party, showing that the awareness is making an impact,” said Shivraj Rajeshwaran, Director of Hopp. “I pre-booked my driver on 31st morning who picked me up and stayed through the celebrations and dropped me back. Its so much more convenient on a day of celebrations without any tension to drive back,” said Megana Surapaneni, a user.
 However, services were temporarily affected when WhatsApp and telephone signals were down, forcing the service to deschedule many bookings. A lot of city folk who used Uber and Ola had to shell out hefty sums due to the surge pricing. “I had to wait for over 45 minutes to find a cab back home and had to shell out ` 1,100 to travel from Padmaraonagar to Alwal,” says Archana, a homemaker. 
 Another driver aggregator, WhistelDrive noted that many users had planned their new year bashes in a way that they would not have to drive when drunk. “Many booked day lock packages in resorts to avoid getting caught, so our response has been similar to other nights,” informed Prashant, Director Operations, Whistle Drive.
 
