
 Delighted faculty members, proud students and a happy principal – this was the sight when we visited   after the college was ranked number 1 for the second time in the National Institutional Ranking Framework ( ) by the   (MHRD). While we were there,  , the principal, tried to put together a ‘take your own picture’ spot where students, staff members and faculty members of the college could get clicked with the trophy and take the picture home. 
 
 “I am proud to be a Mirandian. We are delighted that once again, Miranda House has been ranked number one among all colleges in the NIRF 2018. We repeat the feat of 2017, when the college was ranked number one as well. So Miranda House, get ready for a hat-trick – NIRF 2019. The top rank belongs to you again. This special trophy belongs to each one of you, the past and the present students and faculty members, and also those who will join us in future. So, for all of you, there is a ‘take your own picture’ spot ready. Hold this trophy and take home a picture,” she said.
 
  
  
 
 
 The congratulatory messages didn’t stop for the principal ever since the day the rankings were announced. The staff members, teachers and the students kept visiting the principal’s office to take a look at the new trophy and said, “We shall remain on the number one spot in 2019 as well.”
 “Miranda has always been a great institution, but what is important is to keep rebooting, because times are changing. I think we enjoy innovating a lot. We gave a lot of freedom to our faculty members and the students, and that brings out the best in individuals. I have said this earlier that we don’t really believe in rankings, but what is far more important is that each day, we try to do the best for our students and we owe it to them. Our challenge is to do better than the day before,” the principal added.
 
  
  Pratibha Jolly, the principal
 
 
 
 Rashmi Rakshit, convener of the students’ union, told us, “I am thrilled that we are number one. What makes Miranda unique is its inclusivity. We get students from all towns around and even far away from Delhi. They bring to Miranda their own culture. So, Miranda is special because of its students.”
 Aparajita Sharma, an assistant professor from the Hindi Department of the college, who also made ‘himojis’ to celebrate the number one spot, said that the college is moving ahead because of its focus on extra-curricular activities. “While academic scores are important, we also pay equal attention to co-curricular activities. Whether it is Enactus, the Women’s Development Cell or the debating society of our college, we have been doing great in all fields. We have given that space to our students, and if you talk about digitalisation, we have been excelling in that as well,” she said.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Like everybody in the college, the ranking also made the students’ union proud. Sonali Sharma, president of the students’ union, told us, “It is a dream college for everyone. Students aspire to be in the best college and we represent that. The best thing about our college is the faculty, the infrastructure, and our principal, who is very approachable. If we look at the technological front, then we have QR codes for visually challenged people to move around easily in the college. We have so many apps for our students. We have an MH infra app that helps students report any infrastructural problem. We also have an app to book seminar rooms, and another app to check our attendance. This makes me proud that I am the president of the best college in the country.”
 
  
  
  
 
 
 Since St Stephen’s has been ranked number two in the list, students of Miranda House say that the ranking validates their point that they are the best in the country. “This college gives us an identity of our own once we step out in the real world and say that we are from Miranda. That has got a lot of weight attached to it. It makes you feel proud,” said Ahana Rai, a third-year student of the college.
 Vibhuti Bansal, another third year student, added, “I feel extremely proud to be a part of this institution. It is a tag that you have with you for the rest of your life and we can show it off. I mean, ‘What Stephen’s? We are from Miranda, please’. We are on number one for the second time in a row.”
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
