Madurai: A   in Madurai has stayed the “scheduled marriage” of  , said to be a legal adviser to some members of parliament, to a   member from   in New Delhi on March 26. There have been media reports referring to the MP as Sasikala Pushpa. However, this could not be confirmed with either Ramasamy or Sasikala.

 The family court’s order came on a petition filed by T Sathyapriya of Villapuram against Ramasamy seeking restitution of her conjugal rights. She also moved an interlocutory application seeking to grant injunction restraining Ramasamy from going ahead with the marriage. She said she had learnt from news reports that her husband was about to marry another woman without getting a valid divorce. Sathyapriya had also submitted a representation to the Madurai district collector on March 20 seeking to stop the marriage. 
 
 The petitioner stated that Ramasamy, by misrepresentation of his job, had married her on December 10, 2014. She became pregnant and gave birth to a child on December 23, 2016. On his part, Ramasamy alleged that the petitioner had suppressed her earlier marriage in 2012 with one Palanisamy and that the divorce petition filed by him (Palanisamy) before the Dindigul court was pending. Besides, she was “mentally affected.” Hence, she was not entitled to file the present petition, he said. 
 
 Family court judge (in-charge) N Venkadavaradan, after hearing both sides, said, “This court upon consideration of the circumstances finds that the petitioner has prima facie established the subsistence of a valid marriage and if at all the respondent (Ramasamy) wants to have another marriage, he has to seek a valid relief before the court of law and then contract another marriage. Hence, under these circumstances, the court feels that it would be just and reasonable to stay the contract of marriage, if any, by the respondent with any other lady till the disposal of the main petition.” The judge also said that the petitioner had denied having any connection with Palanisamy.
 
 
