NEW DELHI: On realising it had committed a faux pax on Wednesday by announcing a   of a flat 50%,   clarified on Thursday that the subsidy provided was actualy in absolute rates. 

 The percentage-based subsidy would have deprived small consumers of the intended benefits under the revised electricity tariff order passed by  . The government now says that subsidy in the 0-200 units slab will continue to be Rs 2/unit and in the 201-400 units slab, Rs 3/unit.
 
 Delhi power minister   claimed that this would lead to reductions of up to 25% in the power bills. “The subsidy is the same as what we have been giving. For those who consume 0-200 units, the rates are Rs 3/unit with a discount of Rs 2/unit, meaning eligible consumers will end up paying just Rs 1/unit,” Jain said. “Similarly, the final cost will be Rs 1.50 per unit in the second slab of 201-400 units, where the subsidy is Rs 3/unit.’’
 
 Stating that it was the government’s intention to continue with the existing subsidies, Jain claimed, “There was some misunderstanding in terms of the subsidy the government was giving and its implication on the revised electricity tariffs. We have always given subsidies of Rs 2 and Rs 3 in the first two slabs, not in terms of percentage.” The minister agreed when it was pointed out that continuing with the old subsidy rates translated into a higher subsidy than the flagship 50%. “The quantum of subsidy has not reduced,” emphasised a government official.
 
 Had the government not clarified this, the discoms would have calculated the subsidy on a flat 50% rate as reiterated by the state government. This would have translated into subsidy for the first 0-200 units of Rs 1.50/unit and for the next 201-400 units of Rs 2.25/unit. “The government probably did not realise that subsidy beneficiaries would lose with a 50% subsidy as the fixed charges had increased significantly,” said an expert. “Realising this, the government quickly tweaked the subsidy amount, making it absolute rather than a percent.”
 
  officials too had pointed out that the subsidy would have to be modified to benefit those who used less power, mostly consumers in the less privileged sections.
 
 The Aam Aadmi Party government was quick to take credit for keeping power tariffs low in Delhi for five years. “In the 0-400 units slab, Delhi has the cheapest power anywhere across the nation,” claimed Jain. “In other states like MP, and even in neighbouring Noida in UP, the rates are at least three times higher.”
 
