LUDHIANA: The dismissed head constable  , who has been striving to make his both ends meet, has finally found a ray of hope. 

 City's top cop has decided to take up the issue of his reinstatement, almost two months after the local police admitted that they had no reason to allege that local Hindu outfit leader   and Prakash, who was his gunman, had stage managed an attack.
 
 The development comes soon after TOI highlighted the plight of 42-year-old former gunman of Hindu leader, who was forced to sell vegetable and double up as security guard in the night to run his family.
 
 On Thursday, Om Prakash received a call from the police commissioner's office and he was asked to submit an application, requesting to get reinstated so that his application can be forwarded to senior officials.
 
 "The official said the department wants to put forward my case to the higher authorities in Chandigarh and therefore I need to give an application to the CP office," said Om Prakash.
 
 "Now, I hope to get back my job. I feel my struggle is going to end now" he added.
 
 On Thursday, the TOI published a report how the Punjab Police retracted from its statement in which it had accused Hindu outfit leader Amit Arora and his accomplices, including the head constable, of stage managing an attack.
 
 Head constable Om Prakash, who belongs to the family of martyrs, was dismissed after he was accused of hatching a conspiracy with Arora for allegedly faking an attack on him to get more security cover in 2016. Om Prakash's wife works as a maid in a play-way school and the family is able to earn not more than Rs 12,000 per month.
 
 On February 3, 2016, the then Hindu outfit leader had lodged a police complaint claiming that he was attacked by radicals near  . The police had registered an attempt to murder case. Later, the police had termed it a fake case.
 
 After the arrest of   and   (accused in targeted killings), the cops said the accused have confessed that they had opened fire at Arora. The confession raised a finger at Punjab Police's investigation. Later, the Ludhiana police moved an application in the local court, seeking stay on the proceedings of the case.
 
 Police commissioner R N Dhoke said, "We are moving an application with the higher authorities, urging them to consider the case of Om Prakash and reinstate him." Dhoke claimed that earlier too, he asked Prakash to give an application in written, but he did not do so.
 
 
