LUCKNOW: Continuing their attacks with increasing ferocity, feral dogs injured a fiveyear-old boy and three adults in two separate incidents in Sitapur district on Sunday. The two attacks took place at 10am and 11am but the Sitapur police were unaware of the incidents till the TOI reporter posted a tweet about them.

 
 The five-year-old boy, Sushil, was attacked by dogs in   village under   police station around 11am. Sushil had gone to a mango orchard near his house when a pack of dogs pounced upon him. “They bit him in his neck and knees,” said his father Suresh.
 
 “Luckily, I was also in the same orchard. I heard Sushil crying for help and ran towards him. I saw him surrounded by a pack of dogs. I used a heavy stick to hit the dogs and they fled,” Suresh told media persons. Sushil was admitted to the Sitapur district hospital where he is undergoing treatment.
 
 Just an hour before this incident, a pack of four dogs attacked three adults working in a field at   village, which is roughly 17km away from where Sushil was attacked. Officials said that Chhotu, 22, was ploughing his field and his elder brother  , 27, and father Lokai, 50, were working nearby when the attack happened.
 
 Five-year-old Sushil, who was attacked by dogs in Sitapur on Sunday, recuperates in hospital
 
 
 
 Around 10am, a pack of four dogs bit Chhotu in his stomach. When Chhotu screamed in pain, Ghanshyam rushed to his rescue but the dogs did not spare him too. Then Lokai came running to help his sons and he was also attacked by the dogs.
 
 Some villagers in the nearby fields rushed wielding lathis and attacked the dogs who then ran away.
 
 City magistrate   said Chhotu, Ghanshyam and Lokai sustained minor injuries in the attack and were taken to Laharpur community health centre from where they were discharged later. “We have conducted several rounds of awareness drives and told people to carry lathis with them but they haven’t taken us seriously,” said Pandey.
 
 Canine attacks are taking place in the same areas of Sitapur, exposing the tall claims of the administration of conducting combing operations using night vision binoculars and drones.
 
 
