It’s ironic, but I hadn’t watched a single season of Bigg Boss in either Hindi or Kannada until I participated in the show. My sister was an avid watcher of it and I’d get irritated and ask her how could she watch people fighting all the time. It’s indeed a twist of fate that I later became part of the same show,” laughs  , a popular contestant on the recent season of Bigg Boss Kannada. It is the same show that has today fetched her so much attention including Sandalwood. “In fact, movies have been my ultimate destination. And having been largely raised outside of Karnataka, the world of Hindi   beckoned me as did singing. It was the perfect opportunity to learn the nuances of being in front of the camera before I took the plunge into  ,” says Shruthi. 

  And while offers to do films in the south have been coming her way even while she was in Mumbai, Shruthi was wary about how genuine those projects were as a lot of phoney managers do the rounds of studios there. “So when I agreed to be part of Bigg Boss, it was the last place I thought that would bring me to films. And that to as soon as I stepped out after wrapping the show,” adds Shruthi.
 
  Offers, of course, were aplenty given her turnout on the show, including her affable nature, singing skills, looks and popularity. “But I didn’t want to take up those which would see me in the sidelines. I wanted a prominent part and that’s when   happened. My father was in town and he happened to meet the director. He came home suitably impressed after hearing a brief outline of the story and that was cue enough for me to sign the film,” she says. 
 
  The film will see Shruthi portray Rashmi, a modern desi girl who is bubbly and speaks her mind. “A rom-com, the storyline is about Lambodhara and Rashmi who are childhood friends. While Rashmi is firm about never leaving her beloved country for anything in the world, Lambodhara’s only dream is to go to London. It is such a fun script that I’m having a great time doing this flick,” she states. She will also be singing two songs in it. “Having been raised in an Army background, I’m a stickler for time and discipline,” she adds. People in Sandalwood keep approaching her but Shruthi doesn’t see herself playing mere arm candy to heroes. “Women-oriented plots and leading roles with a sensible outlook is what I’m looking for. And yes, on my wish list are films with Puneeth sir and Sudeep sir,” signs off Shruthi. 
 
  Psst: When Bigg Boss Season 5 came her way, Shruthi was apprehensive about doing it as she didn’t fancy being part of fights and being loud, “like the Hindi Bigg Boss”. It was only when Parameshwar Gundkal, the head of the channel that airs BB assured her that   follows a more subtle format, did Shruthi agree to be part of the show.
 
 
 
