PUNE: The state prison department has submitted a confidential report to the government regarding alleged violation of norms by the Yerawada jail officials in facilitating a meeting between   leader   and his relatives sometime between March and April, when he was lodged in the jail under judicial custody.

 
  
 
 
 Ekbote, arrested on March 14 in connection with the January 1 violence at  , was granted bail by a sessions court on April 19. Prior to that, he was lodged in the jail. The alleged meeting happened during that period.
 
 Additional director-general of police (prisons)   confirmed the development and told TOI on Thursday, “We have submitted a confidential report to the state government, but I cannot disclose its details. It is for the government authorities to recommend action on the same.”
 
 Another senior prison department officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “An inquiry was initiated based on an application we received in the first week of April, alerting the senior prison department authorities about the meeting held in violation of the prison norms. We then questioned the jail guards and officers and it was revealed that the jail officials allowed Ekbote’s relatives to meet him illegally in the prison. A jail officer learnt about this meeting and reported the same to the seniors through the application,” the officer said.
 
 He said, “Relatives/lawyers are allowed to meet the prisoners lodged in judicial custody only with a prior permission granted by the senior jail authorities. However, in this case, no permission was sought from the senior authorities and the meeting was facilitated.”
 
 The officer said, “In the initial stages of the inquiry, the jail guards and junior officers feigned ignorance about such a meeting on the prison premises, but when crossed check with evidence such as witness accounts and   footage, they started speaking the truth,” the officer said.
 
 Another officer told TOI that the Yerawada prison administration had been pulled up in the confidential report. “Now, the state government will take action against the officers on the basis of the report,” the officer said.
 
 
