CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Wednesday informed the Punjab and Haryana   that it was not necessary to abolish the provisions for kurki (auction) of land of farmers because the state had already extended loan waiver.

 The statement was made by the Punjab government through an affidavit in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to abolish the provisions of ‘kurki’ of agricultural land in execution of court decrees obtained by banks and ‘arhtiyas’ (commission agents).
 
 The affidavit filed by  , under secretary, department of home affairs, stated that the Punjab government had a scheme of giving financial assistance of Rs 3 lakh to the family of farmers, who committed suicide due to indebtedness. It was also stated that the government had framed a scheme to extend loan waiver to small and marginal farmers to the tune of Rs 2 lakh. The affidavit also states that Section 60 of the Civil Procedure Code 1908, which provides for court auction of land and tractor of farmer, in execution of a court decree, was enacted 110 years ago, and required thorough revision.
 
 The matter would now come up for hearing on April 4.
 
 In this case, petitioner H C Arora has submitted that under this legislation enacted in 1908, only milch animals, cart and bullocks, and farm implements are protected against such attachment and sale. The situation has changed over last 109 years. Now, farm holdings of agriculturists are very small, the land is tilled by tractors. Most of farmers, who are committing suicides these days, have land holding of five acres or less. Once the commercial banks or commission agents/arhtiyas get a money decree from court, and take steps for attachment and sale of the land of such farmer, he is left with no other option except committing suicide.
 
 It is, therefore, imperative to apply a break to suicides by farmers, by ensuring that their farm land and tractor shall not be attached and sold by way of ‘kurki’ process, in execution of court decrees, petitioner has argued.
 
 
