MUMBAI: A part of credit for the current focus on buildings that come in flight path in the city goes to a couple, both   (AAI) employees, based in Mumbai. Early this year, Mangala  , AAI deputy general manager (aviation safety) took her employer to court over its alleged inaction in the building obstructions and flight safety issue. She might also file a fresh PIL, challenging a government provision that builders use to construct beyond the height permitted under international air safety norms.

 “Which is probably why AAI served my husband an eviction notice asking us to vacate the official quarters,” said Mangala. Her spouse,   is AAI joint general manager (air traffic control) is under suspension. In an unprecedented move for a government organization, AAI also ordered Narasimhan to pay Rs 23 lakh for “illegally” occupying the staff quarters.
 
 In 2015, when hearing a PIL on air safety, the Bombay high court ordered AAI to hand over Mumbai airport safety audit reports for the past five years. Narasimhan appeared in the court, on behalf of AAI and handed over the reports. A month later, AAI suspended him for appearing in the court “without authorization”. He challenged his suspension in the HC and produced written orders he received from his bosses asking him to appear before the HC to hand over the reports.
 
 Three months later, AAI revoked his suspension on the condition that he moves out of Mumbai to the Kolkata office. He then sent a letter to the AAI chairman, pointing out the illegality of the transfer order and declined to join Kolkata. He received no response.
 
 “Under AAI norms, a suspended official should be paid a subsistence allowance. But AAI has been paying only a fraction of this. Out of this sum, AAI has been deducting the dues for staying in the staff quarter,” said Mangala. AAI did not respond to a query sent by TOI.
 
 In January,   filed a criminal PIL in the Bombay HC against ministry of civil aviation and AAI, among others. The PIL seeks probe into the non-implementation of recommendations made by her (in her capacity as DGM-air safety) in an aviation safety report.
 
