HYDERABAD: The   unit of the Income tax department of Hyderabad has unearthed a city-based jeweller’s routing of unaccounted money. The jeweller would sell and buy shares of his company to alleged shell companies in Kolkata. IT officials said the shares were allotted to shell companies at high premium and bought back at nominal value.

 According to sources, the IT department has initiated proceedings under The Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Amendment Act, 2016, against Hyderabad-based Gokul Gems and Jewels Private Limited. It is alleged that the promoters of Gokul Gems allotted shares at a premium rate of around Rs 290 and Rs 690 to 41shell companies based in Kolkata. After a short period, the company promoters purchased the shares at one rupee each and by way of this routing of money, the promoters converted Rs 10 crore of unaccounted cash into white currency during a three-year period from 2008-11.
 
 The promoters of Gokul Gems and Jewels have denied the allegations. The sources said that IT department issued notices to the company under the Act and later issued orders for provisional attachment of shares of the promoters of the company. They said, none of the shell companies could be traced in Kolkata. They are all fictitious. Even the Gokul Gems and Jewels promoters are unable to give info about the whereabouts of the shell companies. It is suspected that these companies were used to route their own unaccounted money.
 
 After investigations, the IT sleuths attached the properties and submitted the provisional attachment orders to the adjudicating authority in Delhi. The shell companies address were mentioned as   in Kolkata, the area that has been alleged earlier to have hosted about 300 shell companies.
 
 When contacted over phone,   of Gokul Gems and Jewels denied any irregularities and told  , “It is the allegation of income tax department under the Benami Act. But we are defending our case. It is the adjudicating authority to adjudicate on it.” An email sent to Gokul Gems and Jewels was unanswered.
 
