NEW DELHI:   has topped logistics index chart, an indicator of the efficiency of logistical services, in the first set of rankings released by commerce & industry minister   on Monday with Punjab placed second and Andhra Pradesh next.

 The report on Logistics Ease Across Different States or LEADS, prepared by consultancy firm  , is based on feedback from businesses and has come under attack from states that are ranked low. Jammu & Kashmir was placed at the bottom of the table with   finishing one rank higher.
 
 The LEADS index is based on various parameters such as rail and roads network, warehouses, efficiency of regulatory processes, logistics services, unscheduled stoppages etc and is a perception study on how stakeholders perceive international trade logistics performance across the states and union territories. On all parameters, barring safety of cargo, Gujarat has topped the list.
 
 Prabhu said the report provides a useful starting point for reliable identification of the right problem area in improving logistics, which is a key focus area for the government. While the report has talked about the impact of GST across several sections, the broad view that has emerged is that an overwhelming majority — 86% of the respondents — believes that there has been a reduction in average unscheduled stoppages due to documentary compliance.
 
 The government has repeatedly said that the removal of border check posts has improved travel time for trucks although the report talks about scope for further improvement due to the introduction of tools such as EWay Bills as trucks are often stopped by “flying squads”, just a few metres away from the border.
 
 The report has also identified focus areas where action can help improve. Regulation through cumbersome rules, rigid slabs for rail cargo, poor customs facilities and frequent stoppages have been flagged as challenges. Similarly, it has suggested that digitisation and last mile connectivity, specially road links to ports and airports, or inadequate capacity at ports in addtion to lack of grievance mechanism, need to be addressed.
 
