NEW DELHI: After Sunrisers Hyderabad and Royal Challengers Bangalore,   are most likely to become the third team to enter the 2018   Playoffs. As the business end of the tournament approaches and all eight teams set to play their last league match of the tournament during the weekend’s double-headers, KKR coach   feels that it’s time for his team to seize the opportunity and treat the game like a final.

 
 
 
 “Naturally I am pleased with the way the last two games have gone. I wouldn’t say that two victories constitute a winning ‘streak’, but who knows – perhaps it might be the start of one,” Kallis wrote in his column for Saturday’s TOI. 
 
 
 
 KKR, who face Sunrisers on Saturday evening are currently on 14 points, and while a win will seal their passage to the Playoffs, a defeat can severely hurt their chances as four other teams – Mumbai Indians, Royal Challengers Bangalore, Rajasthan Royals and Kings XI Punjab – are locked at 12 points each.
 
 “The plan for the next game — and hopefully a few more after that — is for more of the same. More calm, clear thinking and more ruthless execution. I’ve heard all the permutations about who can reach the playoffs and net run rate and so on. All that bothers me is that we can still miss out if we lose against Sunrisers, and we definitely make the eliminator if we win. So that’s what we aim for. Play it like a final. Every game is a ‘final’ from here on. It’s now time for the seniors to lead the way.”
 
 Throughout the season, KKR have experienced many individual moments that have pleased the former South African allrounder. From Sunil Narine’s exploits at the top to Andre Russell going bonkers during the death overs to young Shubman Gill showing character to finish off in style – all of it has left Kallis satisfied.
 
 “Individual performances from some great players are part and parcel of every team and the tournament as a whole but it’s when the whole team has its collective character tested – and passes the test – that impresses me most.” Kallis mentioned.
 
 “I have especially enjoyed those moments this season – like when the Rajasthan openers were 59-0 after four overs. It would be easy and even understandable for a bit of panic to set in but that wasn’t the case with our guys. They stayed calm and focussed, and fought back by keeping things simple and backing their ability. It was also great to see the Eden Gardens pitch offering some generous turn. We have some of the best spinners in the world, never mind the IPL, so it makes sense to give them a bit of assistance.”
 
