Vijayawada: Kanthi Rana Tata, who was recently promoted to DIG rank and appointed as the joint commissioner in the city, has brought in significant changes in the city traffic scenario. The IPS officer currently holds the law and order charge apart from the traffic portfolio. Nevertheless, Rana and his team of traffic police have brought forth several initiatives to successfully reduce accident rate by 5.7 per cent in 2017. In a candid conversation with TOI, Rana spoke about several issues and the upcoming measures to tackle chaotic traffic issues in the city. The excerpts:

 How did you manage to being down the accident rate by 5.7 per cent?
 
 Firstly, we identified that there are 143 black spots in the city, causing accidents. We tied up with R&B department and VMC. We held road safety meetings with the collector every month. Another aspect is that the introduction of 11 road safety vehicles have played a crucial role and we managed to save about 20 lives by admitting them to hospital. At the same time, we do sensitise the doctors and follow it up.
 
 As you mentioned, there are black spots in the city. Which ones are dangerous according to you?
 
 Junctions at Kanchikacherla, Siddhartha Arts & Science College, Kesarpalli and Time Hospital are just some of them. There are various road engineering defects that need to be rectified. Also, the current construction of flyovers, be it Kanaka Durga Flyover or Benz Circle Flyover, has been causing inconvenience to the public. We are diverting lorry traffic to ease commuters in the city.
 
 What is your aim this year as far as traffic is concerned ?
 
 We are going to enhance our enforcement drives. We are aiming to increase the helmet compliance rate and this time we will send drunk drivers to jail. We will take stringent action against them and are looking to deter people for their own good. We have already started stringent measures. We will also suspend drunk drivers' licences and get them cancelled.
 
 Helmet compliance in the city needs to be improved. What steps are the cops aiming to take?
 
 After last year's efforts in conducting various campaigns, we have managed to increase the helmet compliance rate up to 78 per cent at one point of time. But it has reduced a bit. Overall, there is a significant change in the people’s mindset. Previously, most of the bike accidental deaths were due to fatal head injuries. We will implement the rule in the city more efficiently this year. We also urge the people to wear helmets and drive safely.
 
 Apart from accidents, the general traffic in the city is chaotic?
 
 There are a number of factors that are causing it. There are road issues, infrastructure problems and also public road culture needs to be improved. We are hoping that a lot of issues will be solved once the flyover projects are completed.
 
 
