LUDHIANA: Who will get that extra seat? This has become a major bone of contention among the local leaders of SAD and its alliance partner   as both parties want to get one more seat than the other.

 There are a total of 95 wards where MC polls would be contested. Out of two parties, one will have to content with 47 seats and other will get 48 seats to contest. The decision will now be taken by the state leadership of both the parties and there are chances that a meeting will be scheduled to reach the consensus regarding this issue on Saturday.
 
 Since 1997 when the SAD and BJP had formed this alliance,   has always got one extra seat. Even in 2012, the BJP was given 37 seats and   Dal had fielded candidates on 38 seats. Now the Akali leaders want to replicate the similar formula. In case the SAD-BJP alliance registers victory in such a scenario, then the mayor will be from Akali Dal.
 
 The SAD leaders had even claimed that they have reached the consensus and BJP leaders have also agreed upon the formula.
 
 But on the other hand, the BJP leaders denied to have giving any consensus on the matter while saying that even they can field candidates on 48 seats and there is no such fixed criteria that only SAD will contest on one extra seat.
 
 Requesting anonymity, one of the BJP leaders claimed that the local leadership was also in favour of contesting the MC polls on all 95 seats and this is the reason they had demanded applications from all wards, but the state leaders are not giving permission to do the same.
 
 BJP district president   said that they have not given any consent regarding contesting on 47 seats because this time they want to field the candidate on one extra seat. He said the decision regarding three wards is still pending and there are chances they will field their candidates on all three wards.
 
 On the other hand, SAD district president   said BJP local leaders had given their consent that they will get 47 seats while Akali Dal will contest the MC polls on 48 seats like previous formula. He said even if BJP leaders have backtracked, the state leadership will make everything clear.
 
 
