NEW DELHI:   on Wednesday sought to balance its demand for scrutiny of “triple talaq” bill by a parliamentary panel with political optics that it does not come across as blocking the legislation. The tightrope prompted the party to stick to a script hammered out in internal discussions – explicitly convey that it will only delay but not derail the bill. 

 The aggression that marked the Congress success in the   in stitching a wide net of opposition in favour of the “select committee” route, carried the risk of projecting the party as attacking the proposed law.With “Shah Bano” a recurring theme in the conversations of Congress functionaries, the party front-loaded its demand for “select committee” with twin precautions to nix a perception that BJP could use to paint Congress as anti-talaq bill. L
 
 eader of opposition   and deputy leader   said the entire opposition was in favour of the bill but was only against the “criminalisation” clause which would lead to the destitution of Muslim women. Crucially, the resolution Sharma moved in the RS stated upfront that the “select committee” should give its report in the budget session. 
 
 “The winter session will end on January 5 and budget session would start on 29thJanuary. It is just for 25 days. Where is the delay?”s Sharma asked. Congress believes the two arguments clarifying that the bill is set for early passage, would pre-empt the possible BJP campaign to paint the lead opposition player with “Shah Bano” colours. 
 
 Sources said in internal discussions, Congress witnessed repeated warnings that BJP was laying a political trap with the bill. The leadership too was wary of its implications. However, there was a strong argument that Congress should not lend its weight to a “bad law”. The growing support for “select committee” route among opposition parties, even members of ruling NDA, raised the concern that ditching them would hurt long-term interests of opposition unity. 
 
 Ultimately, it was argued that imminence of the passage of the bill in the budget session would settle the issue of political perception. Questioning the Modi government’s insistence that the bill be passed as it was, Azad said, “BJP is becoming a messiah of Muslim women. But what are they giving them? The   has already made the law by declaring it illegal. While BJP is trying to take credit, what is doing for Muslim women? Leave them to fend for themselves.”
