NAGPUR: The doctors’ strike called by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) in the city demanding replacement of Medical Council of India by National Medical Commission was near total for eight hours on Tuesday.

 The doctors withdrew their strike around 2pm when the proposed Bill in this regard was referred to the standing committee in the Parliament. The committee has been told to submit its report by the Budget session of Parliament.
 
 Dr Y S Deshpande, Maharashtra state IMA president from the city, told TOI that it was a matter of great satisfaction that the government has finally decided to rethink on the issue. He said it has paved way more inclusion of suggestions and recommendations made by IMA. “The doctors began calling in the patients around 4pm when they heard the news. The strike effect was near total,” he said.
 
 Dr  , city IMA president, thanked the association’s members for supporting the strike. She said barring emergencies, the doctors did not attend to OPD patients. “It is good that the Bill has been sent to the standing committee. We can now expect some positive changes,” she said.
 
 The city draws patients in large numbers from the neighbouring   and  . These patients were taken by surprise about the strike when they reached Nagpur in the morning. Many of them had taken appointments 15 days ago and couldn’t have gone back.
 
 “We were here by 8am. We have come all the way from Itarsi. We had taken an appointment from Dr   on December 2. We are waiting for strike to get over by 6pm. We will meet the doctor and go as we have no place to stay here,” said Shanti Vishwakarma.
 
 Anil Dikshit from Jabalpur said their patient had terrible pain in the throat due to which the doctor attended him.
 
 Chatur Bhandarkar from Injori village in Gondia district was waiting for the OPD to start at 6pm at Getwell Hospital. Bhandarkar said he couldn’t go back without meeting the doctors.
 
 Sunflower Hospital of Dr Jay Deshmukh too gets a lot of patients from outstation. Yet, the OPD was closed following IMA’s call. “Only emergency patients were attended to. But I will see the outstation patients after 6pm,” said Dr Deshmukh.
 
 Many doctors, however, didn’t waste their time and used it for performing planned surgeries. “I really don’t know about the surgeries. I can’t send these patients back. So, I am attending emergency patients and doing the operations,” said Dr Kapre.
 
 The IMA Medical Students’ Wing, led by Dr   and Dr  , resorted to satyagraha opposite Raj Bhavan, where students from various medical colleges of the city participated.
 
 
