PATNA: The number of   in the state has substantially increased in the last few years and so has the display of swords and other sharp-edged weapons during religious celebrations leading to communal tension.

 According to state police headquarters data, 1590   processions were registered across the state this year.
 
 Patna-based Shree Shree Ram Navami Shobha Yatra Abhinandan Samiti vice-president Sant Lal said people’s inclination towards religion has increased manifold in the last few years. The samiti organizes Ram Navami procession at Dak Bungalow roundabout in Patna every year. “We started with 10 religious processions around five years ago. Now, the number of processions has surged to 40,” he said.
 
 It has also been noticed that such zeal and enthusiasm have resulted in clashes either with other religious groups or the police. This year, several policemen and people have been injured in clashes during the religious processions in Aurangabad, Siwan, Rohtas, Gaya, Samastipur and   districts. Last year, only sporadic incidents of community clashes had been reported from Sasaram, Nawada and Bhojpur districts.
 
 Official sources said 241 persons have been arrested till Thursday in connection with the communal clashes in six districts since March 24 this year. While the clashes took place at some places after alleged stone pelting on idol immersion or Ram Navami procession, there were incidents of violence after police used force to stop youths participating in the processions from deviating from their marked routes.
 
 A senior IPS officer said deliberate attempts have been noticed this year to deviate from the planned and sanctioned routes of processions at several places in the state. “But attempts made to fuel communal tensions at large scale failed miserably,” he said and added: “I have observed Ram Navami celebrations in the last several years. But youths now illegally carry sharp-edged weapons in the processions even in the police presence.”
 
 This year, five companies of central armed police forces were deployed in   compared to four last year.
 
 
