In terms of education, Chennai has always been right there on top. So, it isn’t surprising that we’ve as many as six educational institutions in the top 10 National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2018 rankings in different categories. The educational heads and students of these institutions share with us the 
reasons why they stand out.
 
 — Ashish.Joseph1@timesgroup.com, Purnima.Sah@timesgroup.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The thing I like about IIT-M is the variety of courses that we get exposed to here. With the new curriculum coming in, my juniors will be able to choose almost 50 per cent of courses on their own; this gives them a lot of flexibility.
 
 
 
 IIT-M is number one because of the course curriculum they have. The faculty recruitment is really stringent that we get the best professors in India. Most of the professors are former IIT students and therefore, they know the IIT culture. The best part is that we get a lot of exposure on practical knowledge. 
 
 
 
 The reason we emerged number one among engineering colleges is because we have established some strategic plan from the year 2014 to 2020 and we have been executing those plans since then. We are making progress towards meeting these objectives, so the rankings will come naturally if we keep doing all the right things.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Anna University has always been among the top 10 almost every year. We have over 14,000 active research scholars all across the state. The impact created by research makes a big difference. The student-faculty relationship is wonderful. Also, the startup and innovation culture has really boosted the quality of education. 
 
 
 
 Our university is diverse and updated. The research and PhD scholars are really friendly and helpful and we are also encouraged to do research-oriented papers. Teachers are well-informed about things that happen around the globe. Also, we’re allowed to study subjects from other departments, too, if we are interested. 
 
 
 
 
 It is all because of the team work — the support that we get from the government, funding agency and university authorities; all this has played a crucial role in reaching this position. We get bright students for all the programmes from UG to PhD. We have dedicated faculty members who are always involved in cutting-edge research. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 College has changed a lot in the last few years. Earlier, pasanga thaan raaja and things went haywire. Today, teachers have better control over students and therefore, studies have also improved well. These days you hardly find strikes in college, unlike a few years ago.
 
 
 
  More than 1,000 students have enrolled for PhD here, which is more than the number in Madras University. Also, in Tamil Nadu, ours is the only government college which is autonomous that has 28 departments. After 
 Dr T Pramananda Perumal took charge as the principal four years ago, a lot has improved. In fact, we recently had an international conference called Computer Simulation in Natural Sciences. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC) collates the data and submits it for NIRF ranking. This year, the ranking has slipped from 2nd to 6th. But there are two reasons for that — first, this year, double the number of colleges participated and second, they have slightly modified the parameters and its weightage this year. But looking at the data, I can tell you that we’ve improved on all parameters when compared to last year. For example, this year we’ve got more number of research publications.
 
 
 
 
 In Loyola, we provide space for every student. For example, students who are interested in fine arts, sports and games, research are all supported by the college. So, we give importance to the overall development of the students. Also, we inculcate research interest and scientific mindset among students even from the undergraduate level. That’s why we get so many admission applications every year. Last year, we got 40,000 applications for 4,000 seats in different courses. 
 
 
 
 
 Academics is definitely given a lot of importance here. That apart, all the clubs that promote extra-curricular activities are so active here. So, that’s a big motivation for us students. Also, the student-teacher relationship is quite good. Teachers are friendly with the students and ready to help always. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 SRMC & RI has been ranked 10th among the top medical colleges in view of the innovative integrated organ system-based curriculum for MBBS graduates under the aegis of Medical Council of India’s regulations and also the professional development programme for the students to develop competency in attributes of attitude and communication skills. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 We’ve moved from 12th to 10th rank and that’s the clear-cut evidence of improvement in our performance. We have a very good pass percentage in almost all the departments. MCC has been able to improve in every sphere, including the fact that it has turned green by using solar power for 50% of its requirements. Also, we’ve introduced smart teaching by providing smartboard facilities in different departments. 
 
 
 
 Our college still holds on to its traditional values. Our faculty, unlike in other colleges are very friendly with the students and they are easy to approach anytime of the day. I think that's one of the main reasons why we’re doing well. 
 
 
 
 
 Recently, the syllabus has been upgraded along with the teaching and learning process. Only students with academic merit get into MCC, and this helps the college maintain the academic standards. Of course, teachers are friendly. Once while we were taught a lesson on Coffee House, our English teacher baked cookies for us and took us to a coffee house. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
