BENGALURU: With second-hand smoking becoming a major health hazard, anti-tobacco advocates have decided to pressure the government to regulate sale of tobacco products and remove smoking zones in public areas.

  
  
 
 
 Stressing on the link between tobacco and cardiovascular diseases, a series of   are being planned by a   on tobacco control, health experts and   to mark World No Tobacco Day on May 31.
 
 “Passive or second-hand smoking is a major cause of cardiovascular diseases. Smoking shouldn’t be allowed in any area where food, alcohol or water is served. Designated smoking zones must be removed from restaurants, pubs and hotels as most of the establishments providing the facility don’t follow norms and put lives of non-smokers at risk,” said Dr Vishal Rao, oncologist and member of a high-power panel.
 
 Nalini Satyanarayan, a 70-year-old throat cancer survivor, urged the public to be vigilant so that they don’t end up suffering. “My husband was a chain-smoker and died of heart disease about a decade ago. Even though I don’t smoke, I was diagnosed with throat cancer a few years after his death. I go and meet cancer patients regularly so that they know there’s a chance of survival,” said Nalini, who lost her voice box and is able to speak through an artificial one.
 
 The activities lined up for next week include a walkathon to Freedom Park and a signature campaign. “We are starting a one-million signature campaign, targeted at demanding strict regulation of policy on the sale of tobacco products and removal of smoking zones from restaurants, hotel and bars. We are launching a mobile app on May 29 in six cities: Mysuru, Ballari, Bengaluru, Davanagere, Tumakuru and Mangaluru. The public can report any COTPA (Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act) violation via the app. This will help in curbing tobacco use and making cities tobacco-free. Also, information kiosks will be set up at crowded places,” said J Chander, convener, Consortium for Tobacco-Free Karnataka.
 
 — By Dhanyatha MJ and Samiksha Panda
 
 
 
