CHANDIGARH: After getting student outfits under CAG-empanelled chartered accountancy (CA) firms,   (PU) wants the audit of the accounts of the sponsored research projects be carried out through these companies. 

 According to the existing provision, the utilization certificate and statement of expenditure of research projects is prepared by the research promotion cell (RPC). However, as per the proposed provision, after the utilization certificate and statement of expenditure is prepared by the  , the projects will be further audited by the CAG-empanelled CA firm.
 
 After the audit by the CAG-empanelled CA firms, the same will be sent to the respective funding agencies. The board of finance has already approved the recommendation of a committee headed by director, research promotion cell, that the audit of accounts of sponsored research/consultancy projects be carried out through these firms. It was decided in the meeting of the BoF that detailed terms of reference will be drafted and got approved from the syndicate. The university syndicate in its meeting on April 30 will take up the matter.
 
 According to information available with the agenda, a large number of faculty members of PU are engaged in various research/ consultancy project sponsored by the government departments and agencies. For each of such project, the concerned sponsoring agency sanctions grant to PU, which is to be utilized for the execution of such research project within a time frame as may be determined by the sponsoring agency. At the end of the each financial year and at the time of closure of the sponsored project, a statement of account and utilization certificate of the sponsored projects, duly audited, are to be submitted to the sponsoring agency.
 
 Now, the   has decided to carry out the audit of accounts of such sponsored projects through the   empanelled CA firms. Since some consequential amendments are also required in the PU accounts manual, the governing bodies are required to take the matter and will be tabled in the syndicate.
 
 
