MUMBAI: Murdered emcee Arpita Tiwari’s sister has told the   that after her sister’s funeral, friends had told her that Arpita and her boyfriend, Pankaj Jadhav, had frequent fights as he was neither ready to marry her nor willing to end the relationship. 

 
  
 
 
 The statement has been made part of the chargesheet submitted in the case in which a friend of the couple–Amit Hazra–has been accused of murdering the 25-year-old Mira Road resident at his Malad flat on December 11 last year.
 
 After Arpita’s funeral on December 12, her older sister told the police that due to frequent fights with Jadhav, Arpita was undergoing mental stress. The witness said that night she informed her parents about this.
 
 Also part of the chargesheet are results of polygraph tests conducted on Jadhav, Hazra and other occupants of the flat on the night of the alleged murder. The tests concluded that Jadhav’s answers to two questions were ‘deceptive’. The questions were relating to him knowing who threw Arpita from the window, and him hiding any information in the case. He had answered in the negative to both the questions.
 
 With respect to Hazra, the report concluded that he was found to be ‘deceptive’ on four relevant questions related to him having thrown Arpita out of the window, him having seen when she was thrown out of the window, him having murdered her and him having forced her to have sex with him that night. He too had answered in the negative to the questions.
 
 The most detailed statement in the chargesheet is that of Jadhav’s in which he claimed that Hazra, who the couple had befriended after they met at a bar at Malad, had “one-sided” love for the victim and made repeated sexual advances. Jadhav said that one morning in November when the couple had stayed back at Hazra’s flat at Malad, which he shared with three other friends, Arpita had told him that before leaving for work Hazra had touched her inappropriately. Jadhav said that when he told Arpita that he would confront Hazra over this, she told him that “she would handle the situation”. He further recalled another instance when the couple, Hazra and another friend had gone out of town on bikes. He said that at that time Arpita sat pillion on the bike with Hazra, while he rode with the fourth person in the group.
 
 Recalling the events leading up to the incident, Jadhav said that when they returned after a night of partying to the Malad building at 3.45am on December 11, Arpita was walking unsteadily as she was drunk. Jadhav said that Hazra held her by her waist and led her up to the elevator. He further said at the flat when Hazra asked her to change her clothes, Arpita got angry and said, “You are my friend, stay my friend, don’t try to be my boyfriend.” 
 
