CHANDIGARH: In a far-reaching verdict for matrimonial disputes, the   has held that social and financial status, family background and personal factors like an individual's sensitivity "can be taken into consideration while assessing as to whether the conduct of a spouse amounts to cruelty." 

 Explaining relevance of human behaviour in dealing with the cases of "mental cruelty," the high court held that an act of slapping or abusing may not invoke a sharp reaction or response in case of an uneducated woman in a particular culture or society. She may not mind abusive language, non-attendance by her husband during illness or an occasional slap by her husband, observed the court. "However, similar acts, under normal circumstances, when committed without any provocation would certainly not be acceptable to any woman, more particularly if the woman is educated and would be an act of cruelty as an intolerable insult to the mind and body," the high court added.
 
 A division bench comprising   and Justice G S   passed the judgment recently while granting divorce to a woman doctor serving as a Lieutenant Colonel in the Indian Army. She had approached the high court after a lower court in Amritsar in September 2014 dismissed her plea to dissolve her marriage with her husband, a civilian doctor.
 
 The couple, who got married in May 1999 in Amritsar, had two children and lived together till May 2008.
 
 According to the appellant, she was not treated well right from the beginning but she ignored such treatment, considering it to be normal wear and tear of married life.
 
 She added that after January 2008, her husband’s behaviour became hostile, aggressive and violent. This, she said, made her lose not only her physical and mental happiness, but also the sense of personal safety.
 
 Narrating some of the incidents of cruelty, the appellant informed the high court that her mother-inlaw used to keep nagging and finding fault in almost every action and she had a tough time coping with her job and the environment at home.
 
 She had to seek help from her parents, who provided her a maid servant and even paid her salary.
 
 Her husband once told her to withdraw their children from Delhi Public School, Jalandhar and get them admitted to some government school to save money. He used to habitually pass sarcastic comments.
 
 The appellant also cited incidents where her husband used to demand her salary and abused and slapped her in the presence of her parents and maid servant.
 
 Denying all the allegations, the appellant’s husband claimed his wife’s attitude was cruel and indifferent.
 
 He claimed that she considered herself superior to him on account of her status and education and always nagged that his parents were uneducated and did not have a good standard of life.
 
 The man took a stand that his wife could not be allowed to take benefit of her own wrongs and asked the high court to dismiss the divorce petition.
 
 After hearing both the parties, the high court ordered dissolution of their marriage, observing that the man’s conduct constituted physical and mental cruelty, thus entitling the appellant to a decree of divorce.
 
 
 
