PUNE: A nearly year-long study by the city-based   and the   found that while the visibility and numbers of the   has been on the decline but appropriate shelters can still save them.

 “Sparrows that we see around us are falling in numbers drastically, especially in cities with little greenery. Our research paper focussed on whether they can thrive in concrete jungles as well. We started the study and a training programme for forest officers and other stakeholders, and the results were good,”  , conservator of forests (research), of Pune region, said.
 
 
 The researchers released an eight-month (June 2017 to February 2018) data ahead of March 20 which is observed as the  , to raise awareness about their declining numbers.
  
  
 The core of the programme involved deployment of around 1,100 nest boxes which are artificial nesting environments placed at certain height in trees, or even in buildings. Researchers attempted to find whether sparrows were accepting of these as nesting places, as well as the number of eggs being hatched on an average, besides the actual success rate of the fledglings from these artificial nests.
 
 “We deployed 1,100 nest boxes, but for breeding biology, we intensively tracked around 390 of the nest boxes. That amount will make the readings statistically significant,” Satish Pande, director of the Ela Foundation, said.
 
 The collated data found that more than three-fourths of the intensively-tracked nest boxes were accepted as a nesting site by the sparrows, although the days it took for them to be accepted varied vastly.
 
 Besides, the sparrows laid between one to five eggs at the monitored boxes, with hatching and fledgling rates in excess of 80%. The overall breeding success rate is at a slightly lower 72%, but Pande claimed that it is still a significant proportion.
 
 “Longevity or their breeding patterns must be studied. More data is still coming from all parts of the state from the registered users of these nest boxes. It will take years for a complete research,” Pande said.
 
 Both parents and chicks of house sparrows were ringed in a subset of 12 nests at Ela Habitat, Pingori, taluka Purandar, Pune and Nimgao Ketaki village.
 
 “Chicks were seen up to three months after ringing within a distance of 1 km from the nest site where they were ringed. Parents choosing the same nest in subsequent breeding attempts were seen to have changed with one partner or both partners being different. More data is being gathered for better understanding the parental behaviour and fidelity,” he added.
 
 Egg failure causes are being investigated. Serial biometry of nestlings from day of hatching till day of fledging is being done for better understanding the growth rate of house sparrow nestlings. Wing chord, tail, beak, tarsus, mid talon and biomass are being monitored. Data will be published in the final report, he said.
 
