GANDHINAGAR: Rajendra Trivedi, the   assembly Speaker, on Friday announced that the timings of the   would be changed considering the diet and medication regimen diabetics have to follow; many MLAs have diabetes or hypertension, or both. The MLAs had requested the Speaker to adjust the schedule.   has also decided to ensure that all MLAs in the assembly are served lunch. That will obviate the need of lawmakers, particularly diabetics, to make their arrangements. 

 Though official health records of MLAs are not available, it is believed that of the 182 MLAs more than 40 - including ministers - have diabetes, hypertension, and other medical problems. According to the changed timings, proceedings in the house will begin at 9.30am whenever morning sessions are scheduled; the sessions began at 8.30am previously. On other days, the sessions will begin at 11.00am rather than noon.
 
 "Many MLAs from both the parties as well as ministers and government officers had requested me to change the timings," Trivedi told TOI. 
 
 
 
 Rajendra Trivedi said, “Some ministers and MLAs told me that they get ready by 10.00am for the assembly, but on normal days when the house begins at noon, two working hours are notused properly.” HesaidtheMLAstoldhim that they have to work for long hours after the sessions. “Therefore, I decided to change thehousetimings for thefirsttime.”
 
 “In the past, when roads were bad, MLAs needed to leave early to reach their constituencies. So 8.30am was fixed for the morning session. But now the roads are smooth. Moreover, for the 8.30am session, ministers and officers had to begin their day at 5.00am even if they had worked latethe previous night,” hesaid.
 
 As for the lunch break, time previously available was 45 minutes. “Most ministers and MLAs were not able to have lunch in that period,” Trivedi said. “Now the lunch break will last for an hour. Considering   MLAs, and to save time, lunch will be served at the assembly.” Hesaidhehas decidedtocompletetheday’s work by 4.00pm. “That will give ministers, MLAs, and officers two to threehours to prepare for the next day. Circumstanceshave changedsincethe1960s, sothere was a needtochange housetimings.”
 
 
 
