KANNUR: Chief Minister   has said our work culture has to change. Inaugurating the  , connecting Nileshwaram municipality and Cheruvathur panchayat in Kasaragod, on Sunday, he said what need to change are not the governments or the ministers, and everyone should try and change the existing work culture.

 
 Things that were thought to be impossible are now becoming possible and the system that has been prevailing here should change, he said. Some people may not be able to approve this, but the government also cannot approve such people, he said adding that the government has kept under surveillance the corrupt officials, and it will not tolerate corruption.
 
 He also said construction and infrastructure development works, including roads and bridges, to the tune of over Rs 34390 crore, is going on in the State.
 
 The PWD alone is doing 561 construction works to the tune of Rs 24390 crore in the State, after including it in  . Added to this is the works for Rs 10000 crore sanctioned in the State budget, he added.
 
 The government wants to implement long-term projects in the infrastructure development sector, and it will be implemented as per the recommendations of the people’s representatives in the respective constituencies, with the support of the people, said the chief minister.
 
 The Achamthuruthi-Kottappuram bridge, which is 296.56 metres long and 11.23 metres wide, is the biggest bridge in Kasaragod district, and it is expected to decongest the national highway. The approach roads are 210 metres long.
 
 PWD minister  , who presided over the function, said the PWD examined a total of 2500 bridges in the State, and 623 out of these are intact. 1896 bridges need some repair works whereas some bridges have to be demolished and new ones need to be built. He also said the light metro projects in Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram have not been abandoned. The projects have not got Central government approval so far. Once the projects get the central nod, the government will hold discussion with  , added the minister.
 
