PATNA:   railway station under Samastipur division of East   ( ) in Bihar has been declared the second best at an all India railway station beautification contest held under the station beautification drive launched recently by the railway ministry. 

 More than 100 artists adorned Madhubani station with renowned Madhubani paintings in only 10 days in October last.
 
 ECR chief public relations officer ( ) Rajesh Kumar said the railway ministry had launched a beautification contest across all the stations in October last year. “Altogether 62 entries were received from 11 different zonal railways. The ministry has fixed Rs10 lakh for the first prize winner and Rs5 lakh and Rs3 lakh for second and third prize respectively,” the CPRO’s press released stated.
 
  and Chandrapur station in Maharashtra under Central Railway (CR) jointly won the first prize while Madhubani under ECR and Madurai under Southern Railway were declared joint second prize winners. Similarly, Gandhidham under Western Railway (WR), Kota under West Central Railway (WCR) and Secunderabad under South Central Railway (SCR) were jointly declared the third prize winners. 
 
 The CPRO stated that the idea to adorn the Madhubani station walls with Madhubani paintings was to create awareness among the people about the beauty and importance of this art form of Bihar. Over 160 paintings adorned about 9,414 square feet area of the station walls, providing a visual delight to passengers.
 
 He further stated that actual painting work at Madhubani station started on October 2 last year, when local artists joined the campaign to beautify the station walls with Madhubani classic art and paintings.
 
 “These artists have showcased their talents and charged no remuneration. They worked on a variety of themes while depicting their art and paintings, which included the sociocultural life of the Mithila region, rare paintings of the Ramayana, the Mahabharata, Sita Bidai, Maakhan Chor village haat and importance of Chhath festival in Bihar,” he said, adding railways had allotted 14 blocks on the Madhubani station to these local artists to adorn the station with Madhubani paintings and art.
 
 
