CHANDIGARH: Supply of essential commodities in some of the cities and towns in Punjab could be hit beginning Friday as various farmers’ associations have decided to protest against the Centre to press for their demands by going on a ten-day vacation as part of a nationwide strike call.

 
 However, groups like milkmen, who don’t want to be a part of the agitation, have sought police protection to continue the supply line running.
 
  (Kadian) has already publicized its decision to boycott supply of vegetables and milk to cities in the state over the next 10 days. Buta Singh, executive member of the BKU said there would be no supply to the cities but anyone keen on buying vegetables and milk was welcome to come to the villages. “We have been trying to get various groups of farmers and milkmen to participate in the protest. As for milk, the dairy farm owners can turn it into ghee over ten days,” he said.
 
 Another leader of the union said there was no plan to force the decision on any farmer and the decision to protest was voluntary. At some places, the farmers plan to sell their produce at their own counters in their respective villages or near highways.
 
 Bathinda-based social activist Harmilap Singh Grewal said though city residents will face some hardship, the protesting farmers’ have valid demands and the idea was not to trouble their regular buyers but register a peaceful protest. “Farmers have decided to go on a vacation for 10 days to make their presence felt,” said the former   leader.
 
 On the other hand,   of BKU ( ) said not all farmers’ unions were on board and ones like his would not be participating in the boycott. “However, if the state government tries to use force against them, then we will pitch in,” he said.
 
 Farmer unions across the country have decided to suspend supply of vegetables and milk to wholesale markets from June 1 to 10. Growers from different parts of Punjab will join the ‘Kisan Avkash’ as well. The protest is to press for farmers’ demands of loan waiver and 50% margin over cost of production for crops in real terms.
 
 Milkmen opt out
 
 At some places, farmers and dairy farm owners have already expressed their reservations about the protest. In Dhuri, for instance, milkmen have written to the police, seeking protection to ensure that they continue to supply milk during the protest period.  , president of the Milkmen Union, said they had an apprehension that the farmers protesting in the area could create trouble for them, which would affect their livelihood.
 
