When  , dressed in tight white drainpipe pants and bright green golf tee, complete with, er, green socks to match, lip-synced to ‘Chamaku chamaku cham, 
chuttuko chuttuko chaansu dorikero hoyya...’ legions of his fans erupted in joy, hooting and cheering for their Megastar! This was in 1990, when that famous Chiru hip wiggle-cum-pelvic thrust was all it took to make a song, or even a movie, (Kondaveeti Donga in this case), a hit. But 28 years later, can his nephew hope to create the same magic by pulling off an improvised, and dare we say, much more macho version of the very same moves? Apparently, yes. ’Cos Chiranjeevi’s numbers are “timeless,” believes  , who’s seen shimmying with   to the remixed version of   set to tune by SS Thaman in Inttelligent. Why, he’s even seen wearing that ‘timeless’ green tee-green socks combo in one shot!
 
 “Well, this was my tribute to the Megastar! So my styling is also similar to Chiranjeevi sir’s — T-shirts and tight pants —just like in the original. the tune and the lyrics are also the same. I tried doing justice to it. When the fans see it on the big screen, they will love it!”
 
 If the number of views the video has clocked since its release — 1.5 million and counting — is anything to go by, then it’s safe to presume the fans are already loving it. After all, thanks to modern production values, newage music technology and choreography, the remixed version of the classic hit is more than just old wine in a new bottle. “The song was shot at picturesque locales in Oman, a place where no Telugu film or song has been shot before. it wasn’t a cake walk to shoot this track. it was uneven terrain and reaching there involved taking a boat ride and then walking for 45 minutes! I was wearing chappals, so you can imagine what a task it was... but once we reached the top and saw the spectacular view, it was all worth it,” says Lavanya, who is seen wearing flowy gowns in the song — a far cry from the village belle avatar sported by Vijayashanti in the original. 
 In fact, Lavanya, got the shock of her life when she was told that they would be doing this song and that she’d play Vijayashanti’s part. “I’ve always been a huge Chiru fan, so I was both shocked and nervous,” informs Lavanya, adding, “But the feedback has been wonderful.” That said, it hasn’t been all bouquets; there have been quite a bit of brickbats too, as the SP   rendition hasn’t gone down well with some fans. “Yes, I’ve been heavily criticised for trying to imitate Chiru garu. my answer to all my critics is that whenever I get a chance to pay tribute to Chiranjeevi sir, I’ll do it, no matter what anyone says. He has entertained us for years; this is our way of showing him love and respect,” says Sai Dharam Tej.
 
