HYDERABAD: Sudden political twists and turns and the missing daredevil aerobatics display literally took the wind out of the biennial civil aviation show — WINGS INDIA 2018 — that stuttered to a start in the city on Thursday.

 And even rechristening the show as WINGS INDIA 2018 (formerly called INDIA AVIATION) did nothing to give itsecond wind. In fact, murmurs flew thick and fast about the event being merged with  , the defence aviation show that Bengaluru hosts, in the future given its declining wow factor.
 
  
  
 
 Many participants grumbled that the show, which is being organised jointly by  , ministry of civil aviation and  , is going from bad to worse with each passing edition. This year’s event has been particularly bad with no aero display, very few aircraft adorning the static display area and the exhibition halls too sporting quite a few vacant stalls.
 
 “The event is lacklustre this year. We have been at the exhibition since morning and observed that the footfalls are very thin. Also, not too many operators appear to have flown in their aircrafts this time,” said the representative of a business aviation company.
 
 “The sentiments are very low even among participants. A lot of high-level meetings that were scheduled to take placewithcivil aviation minister AshokGajapathiRajuwere called off at the last minute after the TDP pulled out of NDA. That has upset many senior business associates who had come to the city only to attend those meetings,” said the spokesperson of an international aerospace major at theevent.
 
 A senior representative of an   aerospace manufacturing giant described the event as a “Sad Show”. “I doubt, if this will even continuein thecoming years. Aslong as it used to be a single event in Bengaluru, the crowd and response used to be amazing… but after the event was split between Bengaluru and Hyderabad, I felt it did lose some sheen. However, the past few editions have been good in Hyderabad. But this year, it looks like a major disappointment because of the last-minute resignation by the minister. Of all the days… the political drama had tounfoldtoday!”
 
