KOCHI: The country's largest lender   has recently grown bigger on the back of a merger with associate banks. Chairman   has seen SBI through the integration process even as it retained and grew market share in home and auto loans respectively. In an interaction with TOI, Kumar speaks of the current environment and the road ahead. Edited excerpts:

 
 
 
 Risk management is a continuous process. Credit risk is a calculated and known risk but operational risk is an unknown. When it comes to operational risk, we have seen banks like Barings, which could be brought down by a single trade. You need to have strong checks and balances. But despite that if everything fails, what can be done? The only solution is to constantly review, constantly upgrade and constantly look for gaps in processes and compliance standards.
 
 
 
 
 Our SWIFT is connected to our core banking through Eximbills (a trade-finance solution). So, all transactions are authorised and originate from the system. We do not have any exposure in the   group. My exposure is to PNB. We do have a small exposure in Gitanjali. We are confident that this will get sorted out between PNB and banks. The regulator is there... the judicial systems are there. Also, a categorical statement has been made that all bona fide transactions will be honoured.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 About1,600 branches have been rationalised. We had started rationalisation of foreign offices three years back as compliance and regulatory requirements are increasing and do not justify the volumes. For instance, in Paris, we have a rep office instead of a branch. We have closed down in Jeddah. The process is continuing. Closing a foreign office is more difficult than opening one. We continue to maintain our presence in the US, the UK, Mauritius, Nepal, Hong Kong and Middle East.
 
 
 
 
 We see 13,000 retiring annually. While we will be hiring new staff, we will not be replacing head for head. Roles have got redefined as branch size is progressively shrinking. There was a time when we had branches with a staff strength of 600. Now big branches have 60 employees. Headcount has come down from 2.78 lakh to 2.65 lakh - partly due to the voluntary retirement scheme during merger and through attrition.
 
 
 
 The review of charges is going on and we will introduce it on April 1. While average balance requirement may remain the same, we may do some further rationalisation effective April 1.
 
 
 
 
 In a way, it has made things easier by giving banks discretion. The two key elements of the new norms are - you need to get sustainable debt rated from an external agency. Secondly, until such time as 20% gets paid, you cannot upgrade the asset. It should not make much of an impact. Wherever banks faced a loss in the net present value, they did make provisions and that remains unchanged. It is only in cases where there was a standstill period that accounts were treated as 'standard' loans.
 
 
 
 
 Out of the 12 cases referred to the   (NCLT), major resolutions should happen in the next quarter. We may see three or four cases getting resolved this quarter. While bids have been received, the transactions will be completed only in the next quarter.
 
 
 
 
 There is no scope for bringing rates down any further. But whether it will go up or not, we will decide when our asset-liability committee meets to decide on rates.
 
 
 
 
 We have always said that in India banks depend on retail deposits rather than wholesale funds. So, the borrowing cost is dependent on deposits rather than bulk rates. Floating rates for deposits don't work.
 
 
 
 This year and next, we are not going for any IPO, as I believe that we can add a lot more value before we go for a listing. But in FY20, there are three companies on the radar and - depending on the valuation and expected market - we will take a call on SBI General, SBI Card and SBI Mutual Fund.
 
 
 
 Infrastructure sectors like roads and renewable energy should see a pickup as government spend is also increasing. Next year should see improved investment in roads, which has got de-risked under the hybrid annuity model, plus road assets are getting monetised under the toll-operate-transfer model.
 
