NEW DELHI:   was fond of TV programmes. There was nothing unusual about that; every youngster of his age in his locality was a TV aficionado. But one of his friends introduced him to a crime thriller on one of the channels. Raju got hooked to it and started taking ideas from it with wrong ends in mind. 

 He started with petty crimes for “pocket money”. Snatching gave him thrills. And because he wasn’t getting caught, it became a habit. Soon, he got acquainted with other criminals and started a gang. Meanwhile, he got married and soon became a father. 
 
 It didn’t always go so smoothly. He was caught twice, but got out on bail on both counts. Yet it didn’t end his criminal run; it only helped him connect with other criminals while being behind bars. 
 
 Raju kept on doing one crime after another. He was becoming notorious in his peer group and that was intoxicating for him. So he graduated to robbery. Actually, in this too he was introduced by an accomplice who took him along one day to show him how a vulnerable target is identified and attacked. 
 
 Raju thought this was simple enough. So he continued with robberies and managed to work with over 25 different gangs and 50 accomplices. But some of these were murders too.
 
 Then one day, one   went to the police and complained that Raju took him to a desolate place near his house in   and demanded money from him. When he resisted, Raju hit him with the butt of a pistol and fled after threatening to kill him. 
 
 DCP   said a special team led by ACP ( ) Rohit Rajbir Singh was formed to nab Raju. By scanning   footage, the police managed to identify both Raju and one Satender Rai who attacked Lal. Rai was arrested, but Raju was absconding. 
 
 Then police learnt that Raju was coming to meet a family member near Anand Parbat. A beat officer spotted him, and Raju was nabbed after a hot chase that ended near a traffic signal. Randhawa confirmed the arrest. 
 
 Police said that if a victim resisted him, Raju would shoot or stab him. Old records that the police pulled out revealed that he had been charged with serious crimes such as murder, extortion and possession of illegal arms between 2001 and 2017. There were seven cases of attempt to murder and three murders against him, a police officer said. His last crime was his hundredth. 
 
