CHENNAI: Two engineers in the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board ( ) have come under the scanner of vigilance sleuths after a private firm in which their   were partners was found to have bid for Tangedco and Tantransco contracts. A case has been registered against the engineers and their wives. 

 Not so coincidentally, the two assistant executive engineers (AEEs) were in charge of preparing project estimate details of electrical and mechanical works, assisting senior officials in the tender process and overseeing the execution of the works. The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) has labelled this as a ‘gross misuse of their official position.’
 
 Tangedco is the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board arm in charge of generation and distribution while Tantransco is in charge of transmission of electricity.
 
 As per the First Information Report (FIR) filed on Thursday, the four accused are U Umashankar (AEE civil, Tantransco), Guindy office, K Kumar (AEE, office of EE civil) Mount Road office and their wives K Selvapriya and M Sumitha. The couples are neighbours in Ganesh Nagar, Guindy.
 
 The private company floated by the accused in Guindy on March 3, 2014 by the name‘Trinity Contracts and Services’ has its office in Chromepet. DVAC states that the accused did not inform their superior officers about their wives being partners in the company.
 
 In May 2016, the company submitted applications to Tangedco and Tantransco to register their company as a class-1 contractor to carry out civil, electrical and mechanical works for Rs 75 lakh and above. The registration is valid for five years, a confidential enquiry by Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption found.
 
 The enquiry also found that the company participated in two tenders pertaining to erection of 110 KV lines and reconstruction of a collapsed wall of a substation in Sholinganallur in 2016 and 2017 worth Rs 1.11 crore and Rs 1.29 crore respectively.
 
 “This is a violation of the TN Electricity Board employees conduct rules,” Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption said.
 
 An FIR has been registered for criminal misconduct and breach of trust by public servants, for dishonest and fraudulent misappropriation and abusing position as public servants for getting a pecuniary advantage.
 
 
