Chennai: Notwithstanding the record high pump prices, sales of petrol and diesel, by volume, are witnessing sharp increases as more people move places besides, increased industrial activity. For the fiscal ended March 2018, petrol sales rose 10.2% year-on-year while diesel sales rose 7.3%, data from the three-state owned oil marketing companies showed. For the previous fiscal ended March 2017, petrol sales grew 8.8% while diesel sales rose 2.6%. Petrol and diesel prices scaled new peaks on Tuesday as benchmark crude rose to $75 a barrel, its highest since November 2014. There is pressure on the union government to lower excise duties which will in turn reduce pump prices, besides a clamour to bring in petroleum products under the GST. State governments are resisting the move to bring petroleum products under GST fearing loss of revenue. In Chennai, petrol price rose to Rs 77.47 a litre, the highest since September 2013. Diesel sold at Rs 69.6 a litre. “It may not be appropriate to compare sequential sales, but even there we are witnessing volume growth. Fuel demand and prices are inelastic,” an official at an oil marketing company said. Volume growth in March over February was 15.2% for petrol and 12.8% for diesel. “Rising industrial activity is also pushing sales,” said Debasish Mishra, head of energy and resources for Deloitte in India. “India is the fastest growing energy consumer in the world,” he added. The retail prices of petrol and diesel are linked to international prices and are adjusted daily. “Since Q2FY18, the daily price revision has been in place and pump prices have risen gradually by Rs 12 to Rs 15 a litre and people don’t realise it,” he said. “In many cases, there is no choice and these are things which cannot be avoided.” India sold the most number of passenger vehicles in any fiscal during 2017-18. Vehicles sales, one of the contributory factors, grew at a record high touching almost 3.3 million units, growing at 7.89%, data from Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers said. The previous best was 3.05 million. Several factors indicate oil prices are going to remain on fire. The rupee’s fall to one-year low against the USD will only amplify the impact. The threat of US sanctions on Iran is also holding prices high. “I do not foresee any situation where prices will drop till end of the calendar year. For Saudi Arabia, the upcoming IPO of the state-owned Aramco is very important and valuations are directly linked to crude prices,” Deloitte’s Mishra said.