PUNE: The Supreme Court has directed the additional solicitor general to file an affidavit, within two weeks, explaining the grant of an ex post facto (with retrospective action) environmental clearance to a mega housing project being developed by Goel Ganga Developers India Private Limited at Vadgaon Budruk. 

 “We would like the additional solicitor general to explain the provision of law under which an ex post facto environmental clearance can be given in a case such as the present, where the environmental clearance was given in 2008 for 12 multi-storeyed buildings, but today 18 multi-storeyed buildings have been constructed,” the   bench of Justice Madan B Lokur and Justice Deepak Gupta said in an order on Monday. The order was uploaded on the apex court’s official website on Tuesday.
 
 The bench also sought a personal affidavit from the Pune municipal commissioner on the issue of construction of additional buildings. “We would also like the Municipal Commissioner, Pune to file his/her personal affidavit explaining how the construction could come up without any action being taken by the   (PMC),” the order stated. 
 
 While the affidavits are to be filed within two weeks, the bench has posted the matter for next hearing on March 5. “In the meanwhile, M/s Goel Ganga Developers India Private Limited will maintain status quo and will not create any third party rights whatsoever,” the order stated. 
 
 The apex court was hearing an appeal by Goel Ganga Developers against a September 27, 2016, ruling by the   in Pune that imposed an environmental compensation cost of Rs 100 crore besides, Rs 5 crore penalty on the developer for violation of environmental clearance norms. Later, in a review proceeding, the   modified its earlier ruling and enhanced the compensation cost to Rs 190 crore on January 8 this year. 
 
 The secretary to ministry of environment and forest; principal secretary to state environment department; state environment impact assessment authority; Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, PMC commissioner and city engineer and Pune district collector are named among the respondents. 
 
 On January 25, the SC had restrained the developer from creating any third party rights and had sought an affidavit indicating the number of buildings, area constructed, number of flats occupied, number of flats unsold and the stage of construction. The firm has since filed an elaborate affidavit explaining its position and also pointing out how the NGT “has erred” on the issue of built up area, which formed the basis for imposition of the exemplary compensation cost, and the concept of carbon footprint, which has no place in Indian environmental laws. 
 
 
 
 
 The developer has constructed 18 multi-storeyed buildings as against an environmental clearance granted on April 4, 2008, for 12 buildings. The green tribunal, in the impugned (under challenge) judgment, said the total built up area had exceeded the limit granted by the environmental clearance and this could not have been done without a modified environmental clearance. Subsequently, the developer secured a modified environmental clearance from the state environment impact assessment authority on November 20, 2017. It is the grant of this ex post facto environmental clearance, which the apex court has asked for an explanation. 
 
 
