THANE: Government hospitals may not be allowed any more to randomly refer railway   victims to other medical centres without ensuring availability of adequate treatment facilities at the referred place.

 The issue of hospitals referring accident victim patients to other facilities was brought to the notice of a joint committee of railway administration, police and passenger activists. The panel was formed as per directives of the Bombay high court in connection with a 2015 PIL regarding medical aid to passengers. A final decision on this would be taken by the panel later this month, informed members.
 
 The committee was hearing a complaint made by the Thane railway police after an injured victim was referred to other hospitals by the staff at various government hospitals in February 2018. But the patient did not survive. The panel, in its orders, a copy is with this newspaper, took cognizance of the incident and stated that the victims should be directed to a higher centre for further treatment only after informing the higher referral centre to ensure there is no delay in treatment. 
 
 “The injured victim shouldn’t suffer. All civil, municipal and government hospitals should have coordination amongst themselves to avoid similar incidents,” said a letter signed by the senior divisional medical officer of the  . 
 
 Activist   who has been fighting for prompt medical help for injured commuters said such callousness on part of the authorities was unpardonable. “I am writing to the chief minister to draw his attention to the frail health services in the state and also for stern action against those responsible. The authorities must improve the facilities at government hospitals or allow admissions to private hospitals during emergencies,” he said.
 
 It may be noted that government hospitals in Thane are known to refer accident victims, especially those critical, to Mumbai or private hospitals in Mumbai claiming they have inadequate facilities. Often the time taken to reach the hospitals proves fatal. 
 
 Activists and the railway police have been raising their voice against this shocking behaviour by the hospital staff. “The hospitals often refer patients to other facilities which proves dangerous for victims who need immediate attention. We have raised the issue and want this unhealthy practice to be stopped,” said a senior railway police official. 
 
 
