Bhopal: Two days before the Congress’ core committee meeting in New Delhi, there were tremors in the state unit on Friday as PCC chief Arun Yadav went to meet former Union minister Sharad Yadav and Prakash Ambedkar -- grandson of BR Ambedkar – at a guest house in the state capital here. Both the leaders came for a day to address a “lathi” rally of the Akhil Bharatiya Mahatma Phule Samata Parishad. Later, Arun Yadav and Congress MLA from Lanji Heena Kavre joined the two leaders on the dais at the rally’s public meeting venue at Chhola Dussehra Maidan. While Arun Yadav was sitting on the podium, Prakash Ambedkar made a startling announcement. He said, “Congress high-command should declare Arun Yadav the party’s chief ministerial candidate for the upcoming assembly elections or else we will have to part ways.” This announcement sent shockwaves through both the Congress and the ruling BJP. Powerful factions of the state Congress led by senior central leaders Digvijaya Singh, Kamal Nath, Suresh Pachauri and Jyotiraditya Scindia was stunned by this development less than 48 hours before the core committee sits for a meeting with AICC president Rahul Gandhi to chalk-out the roadmap for the 2018 Madhya Pradesh assembly polls. Former Union minister Kamal Nath, MP from Guna Lok Sabha constituency Jyotiraditya Scindia, leader of opposition in the state assembly Ajay Singh and Arun Yadav will be present for that vital meeting with Rahul Gandhi on Sunday. AICC general secretary in-charge of the state unit Deepak Babaria will preside over the meeting. Prakash Ambedkar’s announcement outraged many in the Congress who could not believe that the party was being dictated conditions even before the alliance has been inked. Ruling BJP was equally stunned that the “mahagathbandhan (grand alliance)” was going to become a reality. State Congress has already had two meetings with prospective alliance partners in Mhow and Indore last year including the CPM. The BSP, however, the strongest of the regional parties with four MLAs in the state assembly has kept itself away from the Madhya Pradesh chapter of the Congress till now. Addressing the crowd at the `lathi’ rally Sharad Yadav said, “The country’s vote bank is divided and the day we stand united, the government will change.” Hinting at a political alliance he added, “Strength comes when five fingers close to make a fist.” He said that the BJP came to power at the Centre promising to create two crore jobs annually. “The youth should have got seven crore jobs going by now. They described love as jihad and the black money has not returned.”