JALANDHAR: Families of Punjabi men killed in Mosul, who had been hoping for their miraculous return, said on Tuesday that the Union government should have informed of the truth instead of giving them false hope. As all the victims were from poor families, they had been barely surviving with handouts from relatives or whatever work they could get. With the announcement of the deaths, their long-term economic survival is also a serious problem.

 Family of Balwant Rai from Dhadde village was not aware till the media started reaching their home. “We have been visiting Sushma Swaraj and we always had a hope that they could still be alive. Now, the government has to tell us how and when they were killed,” said Rai’s son Rakesh Kumar Sonu. His father had gone to Iraq around seven years ago. For past four years, Rai’s two sons tried to shield their mother Gian Kaur from media attention to save her from depression, but she was inconsolable once she got the news.
 
 Kamaljit Kaur, wife of   of   village near Nakodar, had become severely depressed and had even almost stopped recognizing people after the news of his abduction in 2014. As her mental condition worsened, her brother took her to his home in Khothran village and her two children were forced to discontinue their schooling.
 
 Roop Lal had taken loan of Rs 1.5 lakh to go to Iraq and Kamaljit now lives in a rented room and her two sons go to school. ”I have no source of income and was surviving on financial help being given by the government. After my husband has gone, I have lost all hope,” she said. Her relatives said that the family needed financial assistance or she should get some employment.
 
 Family of Surjit Mainka of Choharwali village near Jalandhar is in utter despair. “Apart from the financial help from the government, we have been surviving on the little income from sewing footballs and even that work is decreasing,” said his mother Harbans Kaur. She and Surjit’s wife   said he had gone to Iraq in 2013 after taking loan of Rs 2 lakh and could only send Rs 40,000 home before he was abducted by the IS. His son is now eight years old and for all these years he was told that his father would return home one day.
 
 Kamaljit Singh’s wife Harvinder Kaur lives at her parents’ house in Gaazipur village near Adampur with her 7-year-old son Manpreet Singh and 5-year-old daughter Simarjeet Kaur. She revealed that she had to leave her in-laws’ home at Chonokalan village in Hoshiarpur district. “I have been surviving on financial assistance being provided by the government and I don’t know how we shall make our both ends meet now,” she said.
 
 Manjit Kaur, wife of Devinder Singh of Chak Des Raj village, is now living with her parents in Rurka village near   with her three sons. Her brother Baldev revealed that recently he had told his young nephews, who study in Class I that their father would bring a new cycle for the when he would return. “Now I don’t know how to explain them,” he said.
 
 Sandeep Kumar of Allewali village near Malsian was not married. “He had plans that he would first earn something to improve the financial condition of the family before getting married,” said his brother  . “The government should have told us in the initial stage as by now we have settled with the trauma by now. For four years, we have been oscillating between hope and fear of ultimate tragedy and this has been a very traumatic time,” he said.
 
 
