Music is an amazing uniting factor. And it is their love for music that brought over 100 music enthusiasts from across Mumbai to   beach on a lazy, hot Sunday evening. As they formed a huge circle to set up their drums, many others joined in to cheer for them. Kids brought bottles filled with stones, which they shook to create music. Apart from drums,  , cajon, tambourine, cymbals, Chinese bowls and even a tribal musical instrument called mandar were used. 

 
 Not everyone among the performers were trained, but they just wanted to soak in the experience. Wajid Khan, a percussionist and one of the organisers, played a perfect guide to beginners. He says, “Playing drums is easy and we wanted more people to join in. So, it didn’t matter whether they knew how to play them. We started by clapping as a warm-up and then went on to the drums. Making music by mouth was another thing that helped everyone get into the rhythm.”
 
  
 Ishita Sharma, a classical dance instructor, who conceptualised the event, adds, “Such community events help build positive bonds among people. We just spread the word and were amazed to see the response. Many parents want their kids to learn music and it’s best to introduce them to it in an informal environment like this.” 
 Prabal Punjabi, an actor who played the damroo at the event, agrees, saying, “It feels great to come together as a community.” For  , management consultant and Mithila Pawar, a marketing professional, the clean beach was an attraction. Carrying twin mini damroos, the couple joined in with gusto. “We have been playing the djembe at corporate events and are now addicted got it. This event has been an amazing experience and we look forward to more such gatherings,” Ameya says. 
 
 
 Right from belly dance to garba, people were seen shaking a leg at the event.   from Poland, a Mumbai-based yoga instructor who was part of the organising team adds, “This event was inspired by Goa, beaches and holiday vibes. It was nice to combine all that and get people involved. I’m not trained in music or dance, but I dance at every opportunity.”  , a performer who joined in with hula hoops, says “I got to know about the   from my dancer friends and decided to join in as it sounded like a fun, outdoor experience.”
 
 
 The crowd included people across age groups, from senior citizens to children. Among the senior members was  , an accomplished tabla player. He says, “Music has to be a performing art and that is what I experienced here. Practical experience is a must and it was good to see the audience getting involved.”
 Alok Meshram, a banker from Four Bungalows, adds, “We have a lot of instruments at home and my four-year-old daughter too is picking up playing music. The younger generation’s creativity is curbed because of the time spent on gadgets, but I want to make sure that my daughter gets exposed to music.” 
 
