Moments of doubts and dilemmas spare no one, not even God, apparently. 

 How easy is it for the Supreme Being to go through heaps of prayers and decide who deserves mercy, fully knowing what made every man what he is? But does God want to deal with it in moments of privacy, chilling away in a bathtub?
  
  
 Hand of God, a play directed by P R Arun, starts off on this note. The small audience at its open-air, riverside venue in Tripunithura wonders ‘Will God too have such human dilemmas?’ as the play moves on to other characters — a king, queen, slave, witch and more — whose individual stories unfold before our psyche. The questions of consent, needs, power structure and democracy ensue. Holding a mirror to umpteen situations — some of them extremely violent — they mire our consciousness with skepticism on what is right and wrong.
  
  Offering something more visceral than a mere tale, the play comes down from the dais for some insightful interactions. The slave walks up to an elderly couple among the audience and asks the husband, ‘Have you ever touched your wife’s body, without her consent?’ and the queen strikes up a conversation with a young man, which starts with: ‘I’m a prostitute in dire straits, on the road side...’
  
  With no mikes used and not limited to any particular language, the theatrics soon shape into conversations. The audience surrenders to the moment, just as how one is expected to while watching an offbeat performance art. Heated discussions are stirred up, and even a mid-play poll ensues, to lend God a helping hand at the judgment, at the height of a conflict. And even after the play ends, the character, sentenced to punishment by the audience, lies gasping for breath amidst them. “And it will be so even after you return home, get busy with your lives or even forget all of this,” the director proclaims on stage, while taking his customary bow with the crew, gently stabbing the viewers’ conscience.
  
  
 It’s a first time experience on stage for State Award winner  , who plays the queen. “We hardly had two weeks to prepare. 
 The play has the maximum amount of violence that can be shown on stage and so, the rehearsals were very intense. But Arun made it easy for us, by teaching us certain techniques to get into the role. The queen’s character is quite haunting, and physically and emotionally draining,” she says. It was a first-time experience for lyricist-actress   too, and her character, that of God, interacts with the audience from behind them. “God is omnipotent, right? That’s the reason to give the character such a positioning. As for the experience, I feel you get a lot more involved than in a movie.”
 
 Arun, who has done his MA in theatre from Sanskrit University in Kalady and has directed the film Jamna Pyari, has been directing plays for over 15 years. He says, “I always think about God’s confusions. While a fisherman would pray for fish, the fish would ask for its life! At times, when you see the suffering of children in Syria, Madhu, who was beaten to death or the election results, you start questioning the existence of God. Ours is an attempt to explore such questions. In the past, the emotions of a play used to influence us, but not so much now. We are making the audience a part of the play, reacting to it.” The crew is also planning to launch a book studying the reactions of the audience, after staging it in cities across the country.
 
 One of the viewers, Renjini Menon, exclaims, “I am not someone who watches plays regularly, and such an interactive experience took me by surprise. It really brought out our anti-social side, and that baffled me.”
 
 
 
