NEW DELHI: The   administration is investigating what appears to be a major admission scam during the 2017-18 session. A number of colleges and principals are reportedly under the scanner for alleged malpractices. DU officials claimed that students with marks lower than the cutoff, and even fake certificates, were admitted into certain colleges.

 Once the candidates who benefited from the alleged scam are identified, the university will ask the colleges to cancel the admissions. DU vice-chancellor Yogesh Tyagi confirmed that a probe was on. Swami Shraddhanand College and Shivaji College are among those under the scanner.
 
 Sources said no campus colleges were under suspicion.
 
 A senior  , requesting anonymity, said: “We will get to know how widespread the admission malpractices were only after the probe is completed. We have identified a number of colleges where apparently admissions were conducted through unfair means.”
 
 The official added that there were quite a few colleges where students were admitted despite not having made the cut. “Also, it has emerged that some certificates were either fake, or were issued by ‘fake’ education boards,” he said.
 
 Swami Shraddhanand had recently suspended Saurabh Mann, president of the college students’ union, for having secured admission despite not meeting the cutoff requirement for the BA programme in 2016. The dean of students’ welfare office had conducted a probe following complaints from various sources and directions from the Delhi high court.
 
 A senior DU official looking into the matter told TOI: “We are probing (the allegations), but students, too, need to be alert. While we will get to know more about the complicity, if any, of college staff and administration only once the probe is over, more skeletons are likely to tumble out. If we get complaints from 2016 or earlier too, we will investigate them as well.”
 
 Tyagi said the admission committee had been given a free hand in investigating the matter to ensure that the admission process remained transparent. “The (admission) committee is a competent one and is looking into the matter. It is also working to make the system more secure,” Tyagi said.
 
 DU sources confirmed that the admission committee had come across fake certificates. “While in some cases, the certificates are fake, in others, even the issuing authority is. Discrepancies have also been found in admissions based on cutoff as students with lower aggregates have made it to colleges,” the official said.
 
 
