Chandigarh: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira here on Friday welcomed chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his cabinet colleagues’ decision to pay their own income tax this year and said his party’s legislators were willing to follow suit, but only if the CM took “genuine” austerity measures to pull Punjab out of its financial mess.

 The AAP leader said charity began at home and demanded the CM first “set an example by disbanding the army of his advisers and officers on special duty (OSD)”. “He already has a top-heavy bureaucracy,” said Khaira, adding that the CM had 10 officers at the post of additional chief secretary, dozens of financial commissioners, and scores of administrative secretaries. “Why should the CM need 19 more people to advise him and assist him when he has officers trained to run his government?” he said.
 
 Khaira said the CM was wasting the taxpayers’ money on commissions and using them to “adjust his near and dear ones”. “The Justice Narang Commission, which was constituted to inquire into the infamous mining scandal, submitted its report on August 10, 2017. But, nothing has been heard of it after that. A lot of public money was spent on it, but without any tangible result,” said Khaira. 
 
 Khaira said the Congress’s “logic” that the state would save Rs 11 crore if all MLAs and ministers paid their own income tax was amusing. “Compared to this, the monthly cost of the CM’s 19 advisors and OSDs alone would be more than Rs 11 crore; many of them have been bestowed the ranks of cabinet minister and minister of state. All of this entitles them to salary, TA, DA, bungalows, car, staff, and security,” Khaira added.
 
 Box:
 
 ‘Chidambaram took Rs 25L’
 
 AAP leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira said the state government had roped in “expensive” lawyers like P Chidambaram to defend the appointment of Suresh Kumar as chief principal secretary. “I have learnt that the Punjab government not only flew P Chidambaram in a state chopper a couple of days ago, but also paid him Rs 25 lakh as fees for appearing for a day in the Punjab and Haryana high court,” Khaira added.
 
 
