Ludhiana: The state election commission is yet to notify the results of Ludhiana MC elections, but officials of the civic body have already started making arrangements for the swearing-in ceremony. 

 Due to lack of space at MC offices, officials are looking for some other place where they could organize the ceremony. With the election commission yet to officially declare the results, candidates vying for a mayoral post have started getting restlessness. 
 
 MC polls were conducted on February 24 and results were declared on February 27, but the state election commission has not sent the notification for the formation of MC house and election of mayor. Once this notification will be issued, the divisional commissioner of Patiala will fix the date for the swearing-in ceremony and election of mayor. Officials claimed that they were expecting the date for this ceremony by the end of March, but they have started to make arrangements. 
 
 MC joint commissioner Satwant Singh said on Wednesday that he visited a few locations where they could organise the ceremony, including the indoor stadium on Pakhowal Road and Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan. He said the number of councillors had increased from 75 to 95, and they required a bigger space as MLAs, families of councillors and some other persons were also expected to participate in the ceremony.
 
 A Congress winner, who did not wish to be named, they were not yet councillors as they were yet to take oath. “This is not for the first time that the ceremony is getting delayed. When SAD and BJP were in power, councillors had waited for almost four months,” he said.
 
 To be taken as box: 
 
 First-timers get curious
 
 An MC official, who did not wish to be named, said first-time councillors were quite excited and had started inquiring from officials about the working of the MC. He said some of the councillors called every morning to if the election commission had issued a notification or if they had fixed a date for the swearing-in ceremony. 
 
 
