AHMEDABAD:   have nabbed 48-year-old Savita alias  , a resident of Balishna near Patan, and Kamlesh Darji, 46, a resident of Naroda, for abducting a 13-day-old infant, Ravi from Ahmedabad civil hospital. Darji considers Savita to be his sister. The infant was traced and handed back to his parents, Mukesh Khokharia, 23, and Sharda, 21. They are residents of Danta near Palanpur. 

 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Savita had left her first husband and had married Amrut Patel of Surendranagar about 16 years ago. Additional DCP Rajesh Gadhiya said: “After Patel’s death, Savita married a divorcee, Girish Patel, of Balishna.” Savita had undergone sterilization before marrying Girish Patel but had not disclosed the fact to him. Because he wanted a child, Savita spun a tale about being pregnant. She even explained the lack of the baby bump by saying that the baby was in the lower part of the stomach. Savita’s deception headed for the climax when she met Kalabhai Khokharia on a bus. Inspector A K Patel of Shahibaug police station said that Savita discovered that Kalabhai’s daughter-in-law was pregnant.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 “Savita told Kalabhai to contact her when the child was born as she could help him get the benefits of government schemes through Ahmedabad civil hospital,” inspector Patel said. Kalabhai called her on April 26 to inform her about the birth of his grandson. Inspector Patel said Savita left for Danta with Darji, who is priest, and brought the couple to Ahmedabad civil hospital.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “On the pretext of getting the child weighed, she slipped out from the campus and left with Darji,” inspector Patel said. “Later she told her husband that she had gone to Surendranagar to claim some money from the sale of land belonging to her former husband but had to admitted to hospital because of labour pains and gave birth to the baby.”
 
 Police sources said her husband distributed sweets in the neighbourhood. “We got the CCTV footage and with the help of technical surveillance of her cell number through which she had called Kalabhai, we arrested her from Balishna village,” inspector Patel said.
 
 
