By Vishwanath Pai

 Dayashankar Vaijaram Joshi, or Joshi Kaka to those who knew him, was a cook from Gujarat serving a businessman’s family in Colombo. In 1931, Pandit  , looking for a change in weather, visited Colombo with his ailing wife Kamala and the then 13-yearold Indira.
 
 It didn’t take long for Joshi to impress his guests. Special delicacies prepared by him impressed Nehru — the statesman especially liked the matar samosa while Indira absolutely loved the cook’s sheera. But more importantly, Nehru was pleased with the care Joshi was taking of Kamala and Indira.
 
 Before leaving Colombo, Nehru requested his host to allow the cook to go with him. The host — glad to be of help — agreed. This is how Joshi joined the Nehru household.
 
 From that stage onwards, began Joshi’s career of impressing Delhi’s most powerful and influential. Among the Indian politicians who got to taste his delicious cooking were Sardar Vallabhai Patel, Sarojini Naidu and  , who were all regular visitors to the grand Nehru household. But life was soon set to change for the quiet cook from Gujarat.
 
 By this time, Mahatma Gandhi had started addressing meetings across the country — to boost the non-cooperation movement. Nehru would often accompany the leader and his travels meant he was rarely in Delhi.
 
 Joshi, meanwhile, was finding it increasingly difficult to live in Delhi. He decided to move to Poona, a place he had heard of from Indira, who had done her schooling in the city.
 
 Though Joshi had reached the age of retirement, with some influence, he managed to wrangle a job for himself as a peon with the newly-started  . It was only coincidence that I too was working with the transport body at the time, as part of an earn-and-learn scheme. That is how I was introduced to the man — with no idea of the conversations he had been privy to.
 
 Over time, Joshi retired from the job and I too moved on to start working as an advocate with the Pune Bar.
 
 Meanwhile, Joshi fell on hard times. He had used his legendary influence to get his son a job with Telco, but the son later refused to look after his father. He claimed that since his father had contacts, he should use them to get government aid. A stunned Joshi then approached Morarji Desai, who was then the chief minister of Bombay State. But the meeting didn’t go very well.
 
 “Every elderly person in India should work instead of expecting help from the government. I’m old, but I work,” was the advice from Morarji Desai. Fortunately, the CM agreed to look into the matter.
 
 The government eventually offered the former cook a piece of land in Paud taluka of Pune district. But the ageing man turned down the offer, saying he was too old to cultivate on the land.
 
 During his days in Poona, Joshi would also meet Indira whenever she would visit. But the meetings ceased after the Emergency was declared.
 
 His ordeal only ended on June 24, 1978. The judicial magistrate of the first class court number 5, ordered the cook’s son to pay his father a maintenance allowance of Rs 60 per month.
 
 The judgement was given on an application submitted by me as an advocate on behalf of the 80-year-old Joshi, who after serving some of India’s biggest leaders, had been reduced to a life of penury and starvation.
 
 
 
 
