NEW DELHI: Rakesh Kumar, nabbed on Sunday for masterminding the leak of the CBSE Class XII economics question   last month, has been discovered to have also made the Class X mathematics paper public a day before the exam. On Wednesday, the special investigative team of Delhi   arrested the branch manager and cashier of the bank where the papers had been stored. A woman relative of Kumar, who had forwarded the leaked exam questions on WhatsApp, was arrested from Ferozepur in Punjab on Thursday.

 Alok Kumar, joint commissioner (crime), disclosed on Thursday that Kumar had admitted to stealing the   and economics question papers from the Union Bank of India in Una, Himachal Pradesh, on March 23 while collecting the computer science exam paper from its vault.
 
 According to police, on the day the maths paper was leaked, bank manager Sheru Singh had handed over the keys of the strong room to cashier Om Prakash because he himself had taken leave. CBSE guidelines make it imperative for a bank official to hand over the test papers to the exam coordinator, Kumar in this case, only after counting them and verifying the code number printed on each page.
 
 Prakash neglected to count or verify the question papers, thereby allowing him to spirit away the unauthorised exam questions. The cashier told the cops that Kumar had pleaded he was in a hurry to reach the exam centre, and so had not held the teacher back except to get him to sign a register.
 
 “Both, the bank manager and the cashier have been booked for criminal negligence,” said a police officer. The DAV Centenary School principal is also being questioned, as are the two relatives of Kumar.
 
 The joint commissioner added that while retaining the printed question papers, Kumar had got a student to transcribe the questions. These hand-written sheets were later circulated among Kumar’s tuition students. “That night, he forwarded the mathematics paper to his relative like he had done the economics paper,” said the police officer.
 
 In return for the questions, relative Manju Devi had assured Kumar she would help him meet members of the management of DAV Centenary School, where he taught, to press for promotion as principal next year. 
 
 After her arrest on Thursday, Devi told the cops that though she had sought the maths paper for her son, she had also forwarded it to her sister-in-law in Panchkula, after which the leaked questions reached Delhi via WhatsApp. Police suspect that the students in Jharkhand too had accessed the questions from Delhi.
 
 
