MUMBAI/AMBERNATH:   probing the ongoing   case are surprised that a   could be hired as a schoolteacher. 

  resident   (47), the alleged mastermind behind the SSC paper leak who was arrested on Tuesday, was earlier apprehended in the SSC algebra paper leak in Ambernath on March 13, 2013. He was then again arrested on January 11, 2015, in a   filed by a 14-year-old student at his coaching class. Both cases have not yet come up for trial.
 
  
 Despite two criminal cases against him, Khan managed to land a teacher’s job at   in Mumbra in June 2017. “We will question the school authorities on how did they recruit Khan without proper police verification and without police NOC,” said an officer from Amboli police station. “On Monday night, Ambernath police informed us that Khan was also involved in a sodomy case in 2015 and was sent to judicial custody for 10 months before he secured bail,” he added.
 
 Police claimed in his capacity as an invigilator, Khan had accessed the history & political science paper from a sealed bundle at the   before leaking it on WhatsApp on Monday morning. It was later found that he had leaked four more papers. Zakiya Shaikh, head of Kids Paradise School, said: “We hired Khan last June because we were in need of a maths teacher. He gave a demo lecture and we decided to bring him on board. We visited his centre in Ambernath to check his credentials. We do not know about his involvement in past cases of leak or other criminal matters.”
 
 Amboli police will approach the state board to take action against Khan for running Brilliant Classes in Ambernath though he was arrested for an SSC paper leak in 2013. “Ambernath police had arrested Khan in March 2013 for selling copies of the SSC algebra paper to his students inside his coaching class 20 minutes before the exam,” said the Amboli police officer. “They had also arrested Mukund Bhor, a teacher at Mandakini Bhor Madhyamik Vidyalaya, for allegedly opening the sealed envelope of question papers and passing one copy to the owner of the classes. Bhor is the son of a former corporator Mandakini Bhor, who runs the school. Two girls had also confessed to having bought the paper from Khan in 2013.”
 
 
