NAGPUR: A day after TOI reported about   round table being held inside the core area, plans to hold the conference inside the rest house opposite the lake has been shifted outside.

 Based on the communications doing the round among officials and detailed programme issued on February 18, TOI reported how forest department went out of the way to allow the meet to be held inside.
 
 The Tadoba round table is being put together by the Sanctuary Nature Foundation (SNF) from February 20 to 22, with seven officials from United Nations Environment Program ( ) in India and 25 other dignitaries including bank CEOs and forest officials.
 
 Clarifying on the report, SNF founder Bittu Sahgal denied the conference was being held inside the core area. “It will be outside the park and like any other tourists, the participants plan to take one safari round in the park on February 21, for which all payments would obviously be made. They will enter from   gate and exit from the same gate at 10.30am,” said Sahgal.
 
 Based on communication from CMO’s office on February 18, PCCF (wildlife) AK Misra had directed APCCF (wildlife) Dr N Rambabu to facilitate SNF programme on February 21 in Tadoba and treat it as official.
 
 The PCCF direction also included allotment of a canter for excursion and 2-3 vehicles of Bamboo Forest Safari Lodge ( ) for delegates. Officials were also asked to make available camp office at Tadoba for round table discussion and make arrangement for lunch.
 
 Sahgal said he has no knowledge about PCCF (wildlife) communication. “As per the original plan, the conference was to be held at BFSL only. We were to just have tea at the rest house and hand over the electric vehicle to stakeholders at the hands of forest minister Sudhir  . We would not participate in any initiative that involves breaking any park rules,” Sahgal added.
 
 Mungantiwar on Sunday had told TOI that he had no knowledge whether the conference is being held inside the park.
 
 On the contrary, APCCF Rambabu and filed director   on Sunday though had confirmed about the meeting in Tadoba, they had refused to talk on the issue. On Monday, Rambabu said, “The issue is closed now.”
 
 “Even as PCCF allowed entry at the camp office under special powers wrested upon him in Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, ethically it is wrong to have a round table in prohibited area. Once the program is declared official, money cannot be charged from the delegates. The move also sets a wrong precedent,” said senior wildlife officials seeking anonymity.
 
 As per the   guidelines based on the Supreme Court directions in 2012, these tourism structures have to be removed in a phased manner from the core area but forest officials are spending lakhs on their renovation for best reasons known to them.
 
 Sahgal said the purpose of the meeting is to find ways to promote community participation in rewilding failed farms abutting the park so that human-animal conflicts are reduced and benefits flowing into the park are shared with the community.
 
 However, RTI activist Avinash Prabhune said, “Even if the intentions of the UNEP and NGOs may be good, community conservancy has nothing to do with the meeting in core area. The electric vehicle can be donated even outside the gate at Kolara or at BFSL. Why prohibited areas be opened again. Tomorrow VIPs will also demand the rest house for stays and meetings.”
 
 Even NTCA member-secretary Debabrata Swain disapproved holding a conference at the rest house inside Tadoba.
 
 
