NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Monday entered   with all three of its candidates – party functionary  , billionaire businessman   and chartered accountant   – winning the elections unopposed. Since there were only three candidates for the three seats from Delhi, they were declared winners eight days before the elections were scheduled to take place.   has a brute majority in Delhi assembly and the opposition BJP did not have enough numbers to even put up a candidate.

 Earlier in the day Election Commission of India cleared ND Gupta’s nomination and accepted it. Claiming that Gupta was “holding an office of profit as a trustee of National Pension System Trust”, Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken had sought cancellation of his nomination. Gupta had clarified that he had resigned from the NPS Trust days before filing his nomination.
 
 “ND Gupta going to RS was a foregone conclusion. When both AAP and BJP are supporting (Gupta) who will reject his nomination?” Maken tweeted.
 
 An hour before he was declared elected, Sushil Gupta put up a show of his strength in a roadshow in which all three candidates arrived at the DC office Daryaganj to receive certificates. Almost all placards being carried had photographs of Sushil Gupta only and all the flags had the picture of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. His supporters turned up to cheer him in SUVs and luxury cars. 
 
 N D Gupta, 72, is a former president of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and has been associated with Kejriwal for around a decade. He assists the party in managing its accounts. 56-year-old Sushil Gupta is a businessman and social activist. He runs various educational institutions located in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab besides several hospitals. A former president of the Law Students Union of Delhi University, Sushil Gupta had contested the assembly elections from Moti Nagar in 2013 on a Congress ticket. He resigned from the Congress in November last year.
 
 With AAP since its inception, 46-year-old Sanjay Singh is in-charge of party’s UP and Bihar units and is also a member of the party’s PAC. A mechanical engineer, Singh has been active in social work for more than two decades. 
 
 With three RS MPs, AAP’s strength in parliament has grown to seven – it has four MPs in the Lok Sabha. 
 
 
