NEW DELHI: A west Delhi couple and their 14-year-old daughter were attacked and robbed by four men on bikes when they visited a convenience store in Vikaspuri early on Monday. 

 Police said the incident occurred between 2am and 2.30am when the family left the store and headed towards  . The woman, a  , told TOI that she was driving their Honda City, her husband was sitting next to her and their daughter was in the back seat playing games on her cellphone. 
 
 “When we left the store, we didn’t notice anyone following us until a few metres ahead when two men on a bike hit our car. Since it was night, I preferred not to argue as the men could be dangerous. I chose to drive away but the men started following us hurling abuses,” the woman said. 
 
 The pillion rider called up two of his friends who joined the chase around Mianwali Nagar. “They kept on telling us to stop, but I kept speeding as I was scared. They finally intercepted us from both the sides at Mianwali Nagar, which is around 8km ahead. I was forced to stop. At first these men did not notice my husband as he had reclined his seat while sleeping,” she said. 
 
 As soon as she stopped, the duo that had hit the car got down and approached the car. “While one of them pulled me out of the car, the other opened the rear door and pulled my daughter out who was crying for help by then. My husband rushed out to help. He tried to stop the man manhandling me, so he threw me aside and attacked him,” the woman said. 
 
 The   was thrashed black and blue. “While three men were hitting him, the fourth pulled out a sharp object from his pocket and attacked my husband with it,” said the victim woman. “My daughter was manhandled too. A white WagonR was crossing us and slowed down seeing all this. Seeing that, the men immediately took away Rs 10,000 cash from us and snatched my daughter’s gold earrings too. They had to rush so they couldn’t take anything else from us. They restarted their bikes and immediately zoomed off towards Piragarhi,” she said. 
 
 DCP (west)   said that the family members rushed the man to the hospital. The hospital called up the police. Even though the incident occurred in outer Delhi, the case was registered in west Delhi as the place fell under its jurisdiction. “We rushed a team to the hospital where the family members narrated the entire episode to the team. A case was immediately registered under sections of robbery and causing hurt,” DCP   said.
 
 Police said they have not found any CCTV footage in which the incident has been captured and they have formed several teams to track down the perpetrators. The woman said that she could easily identify the assailants if shown their photographs. She also gave the police a description of the perpetrators to the police, based on which the cops have started hunting for the suspects.
 
 
