TRICHY: The research paper of a city college student on early warning signals in disaster management has fetched him a  . B  , a second year physics undergraduate student of  , bagged the M S Swaminathan award at the 9th Indian Youth Science Congress (IYSC) held recently in Himachal Pradesh.

 The research paper, which stressed on the importance of these signals to ensure survival during crisis or disaster, gained appreciation amid several papers presented by M Phil and PhD students from across the country. His work was awarded the best paper which came with a cash prize of Rs 3,500. 
 
 Crediting his field work and guidance from staff at the college for his achievement, Kishore said that the research paper was the result of field visits to several places and his meeting with various experts over six months. “There are a lot of warning signals that other living beings generate but people are unaware of it. Though we rely on technology, nature has given the best signals that are effective early warning systems during disaster,” he says.
 
 He said that snakes could detect Tsunami two days prior to the disaster. Similarly, golden winged warbler – a Canadian bird- could sense an approaching tornado or cyclone from a distance of 1,000 kms and more. People were using them as early warning systems until the advent of technology, said Kishore adding that not many would know that domestic canary bird were used by miners to detect emission of poisonous gases in coal mines. The toxic gases like carbon monoxide or methane would kill the bird before it could affect the miners.
 
 Aspiring to do research in elementary particles to come up with new findings in atomic physics, Kishore was stuck with the idea one day when he was thinking about suffering of mankind if they were robbed of the technology. Then he started collecting details as to how people in the early days were safeguarding themselves in the absence of technology. In the process he came to know about the early warning systems.
 
 Faculty of physics department, R Vijay Kumar who took a team of 10 students from   to the congress from  , said that Kishore had attended Indian Youth Science Congress last year as well but he was not successful in getting awards. “He was fully prepared for the event this time which helped him bag the award,” he said.
 
 
