TRICHY: After a year-long futile effort to run the reception home for girls in   , the district administration has come out with an appeal to interested and eligible people to start the home in Trichy city. District collector   in a statement on Wednesday asked qualified NGOs to apply for the selection. 

 The reception home for girls, run by the department of social defence, is meant for keeping victims of child marriage, sexual abuse, begging and also girls exiting their home voluntarily. The department has set some guidelines to be followed by the applicants to run the home. They have to satisfy the norms of the integrated child protection scheme (ICPS) of the union government. They should also be equipped with infrastructure and experience to get the registration under Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act. Eligible people could send in their proposals to the office of the district child protection office (DCPO) on Race Course Road at Kajamalai. 
 
 An official source said that the appeal from the district administration came after more than a year of search for a suitable candidate failed to yield results. While a private NGO has been running a reception home for boys in the city, the agencies show reluctance to run the home for girls. As of now, the reception home for girls has been functioning inside the campus of the government observation home which is designed for keeping juveniles in conflict with law which will be mostly boys. 
 
 The close proximity of the reception home with the observation home has been a cause of concern for the past few years. A total of 25 girls could be accommodated in the home at any given time. The officials concerned also raised objections to the functioning of the government reception home for girls inside the campus of the observation home in Trichy. Girls rescued from child marriages and some other circumstances will be kept at the reception home to a maximum of 18 years of age depending upon the order of the child welfare committee ( ). 
 
 
