With the heat becoming unbearable for humans as well as animals, pet lovers in the city are having a tough time keeping their pets cool. While some are keeping their pooches cooped in in air-conditioned rooms, those working with the strays in the city, have built shelters for the animals to rest under. Talking about the steps they are taking to prevent their pets from suffering a heat stroke, pet parents tell us how they are helping their babies stay cool.

 
 
 
 For Enakshi Chandel, owner of over a dozen Labradors, the first step is to change the dogs’ diet. "During  , I stop giving my dogs meat in their food and give them lots of mattha to drink," shares Chandel adding, "From April end onwards, my dogs remain indoors till sunset with the AC on most of the time."
 
  
  Vishakha Shukla feeding her pet dog ice cream to beat the heat (BCCL) 
 
 
 Soban Ahmad Khan, who has a pet cat, makes sure that his cat doesn't go out of the room during daytime as he is quite active, unlike other cats. "Jordan being such an active cat, doesn't sit for long at the same place, therefore we lock the room where he can sit and chill in the AC during daytime. We also give him a bath which is a very challenging task as cats hate water," says he laughing. "We give only liquid diet like milk, coconut   or glucose in the afternoon to keep him hydrated, rest, he eats little meat for breakfast and dinner when the temperature falls down a little."
 
 
 Another vital thing for pet parents to take into consideration in this heat is when to take your pet for a walk. "I have seen, several people take their dogs out for a walk when the sun is high. That's an absolute no-no," says Vishakha Shukla, a pet parent. "It’s best to take your pets out for walks either early in the morning or late in the evening when its cooled down. What happens is that when the pets walk on metalled roads, their paws get burned and they also tend to get tired easily because of the heat. The pets must have access to water all the time and it should be changed every few hours and kept in a cool place," she adds.
 
 Arti Agarwal’s pet, a guinea pig, chilling in a copper tub and Alop Ghosh with his Great Dane (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 
 For Alop Ghosh, a businessman, who has several Great Danes, Labradors and Alsatians at his home, along with parakeets and macaws, keeping his pets cool is quite a task. "I have designated a man just to ensure that all animals are looked after in this heat. I have put coolers in the room where the dogs stay during the day and give them a fresh water rinse every evening," says Alop, who also advises change in diet for the dogs. "Give them food which is light on their stomach. Curd and rice becomes a major part of my dogs' diet during summers. Also I prefer to use earthen ware for their drinking water," he adds. 
 Dr Arti Agarwal’s pet, a guinea pig, has been given a copper vessel full of water to sit and chill whenever she wants. "She would literally pant in heat. She would sit in an AC room yet she also wanted to roam about the house at her free will. So after a lot of brainstorming, the idea of making her a swimming pool of her own struck us and so we got an old copper vessel, filled it with water and now she sits in it most of the time," says she. 
 
 
 Vishakha also loves to indulge her pets with ice creams during summers. Dogs love ice creams and ice cubes. "Mine love to lick on to milk bars and it cools them off too.” A strategy that’s also followed by Arundhati, parent of two dogs and seven pups. “I put lots of ice in the drinking water of our dogs. That keeps the water cool and also the dogs. Our Alsation especially loves to chew on ice cubes," laughs Arundhati, adding, "In the evening, when I'm watering the garden, I let the dogs play in the water and they love it."
 
 
 Cyrus Cowasji, who has an animal farm with a variety of animals including buffaloes, horses, ducks and dogs, has built a pool on his property. Cyrus also focuses on the greenery within his property as it helps a lot in keeping the temperature cool. "To keep the animals cool we have installed fans and the staff gives bath to the animals twice a day. Larger animals like my cows and horses stay under their shed during the day after they have been given a bath during feeding time," says Cyrus, adding, "Other pets which live in a natural enclosures have trees and greenery around them that keeps the farm cool. As we don’t cut our trees within the property, our farm within the gates is much cooler as compared to the temperature outside. We also have a swimming pool where the dogs are taken for a swim to cool off. Of course they have to share the pool with our ducks and the buffalo too,” says Cyrus with a chuckle.”
 
  
  Caroline Borges has made shelters for strays (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
 When it comes to taking care of the strays in summers, Caroline Borges, a school teacher, leaves no stone unturned. From an ice-cream party to making a shelter for them outside her house, Caroline does it all. “As summer approaches, I build a small canopy right outside the boundary wall of my house, where the strays take shelter from the scorching sun,” says Caroline, who has also kept matkas and earthen bowls for the strays to drink water from. Caroline adds, “While people have fun and masti with their pets, I have ice-cream or maybe a   party with my pets every weekend.”
 GROOMING IS A MUST
 
  
  A dog enjoying a pool bath (BCCL) 
 
 With ticks being a common problem, it’s imperative to keep your pooches free of the pests. While many think that by cutting their pets hair, they will help the pooch cool down, yet vets advise otherwise. “Grooming is very important during summers as ticks are very common these days,” says Vishakha, who also grooms pets. “Do bathe your pets regularly and brush their fur too. Do not cut their hair too short. Hair works as an insulator for the skin and if you shave it off, you will actually expose the pet to heat. Regular application of anti-tick powders, shampoos, liquids are very helpful. Also a generous application of a mixture made with one part Apple Cider Vinegar and ten parts water should keep the mites away," says Vishakha.
 
 
 — Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com and Adnaan Rizvi
 
 
 
