Vadodara: The controversy over the Sanjaynagar slum redevelopment project in   refuses to die down. 

 A day after Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) commissioner said that any procedural lapses in the contract could be rectified, the   has now started an agitation over the issue. The city unit of the Congress has demanded that a white paper should be brought out on the Sanjaynagar scam. The party has sought that all documents pertaining to the scheme should be brought in public domain.
 
 A memorandum addressed to the municipal commissioner states that questions were being raised about a Rs 2,000 crore scam, a notice was issued to the builder who had taken up the project, an   had made allegations and an inquiry had been ordered by the state government. This itself indicated that something was wrong.
 
 State Congress general secretary   and his wife Ami Ravat who is also a VMC councillor submitted a memorandum to the district collector in this regard. Narendra Ravat claimed that while it was being speculated that the scam could not be of Rs 2,000 crore, he could prove with data that the developer would make such an amount from the project.
 
 Not limiting himself to the Sanjaynagar redevelopment project that is coming up under the Pradhan Mantri Aavas Yojana (PMAY), Ravat has demanded that an independent review of all projects under the PMAY and Mukhyamantri Gruh Yojana should be done. All such projects are coming up under the public-private partnership mode. After slums are cleared, the developer makes houses for the slum dwellers on a part of the land while he is free to develop the remaining portion.
 
 The memorandum states that in all 22 such projects had been proposed in the city. He alleged that both Raopua MLA   and VMC mayor Bharat Dangar had interests in the project. The memorandum demands immediate termination of the contract, blacklisting of all the bidders involved in the project, a probe by a retired judge and a review of the PMAY scheme at the national level by experts.
 
 
