Are you among the people who leave tax planning to the last moment and end up investing in the wrong instruments because of the year-end rush? To help you start the financial year on a secure footing, we have listed eight financial tasks you need to get done quickly. As the adage goes, well begun is half done.

 
 
 While the grandfathering clause in the   reduced the pain of the proposed long-term capital gains (LTCG) tax on equities, it has complicated the   calculations. Investors will now have to remember the price of their stocks—NAVs in case of mutual funds—as on 31 January 2018 to compute LTCG. You can maintain this data in an Excel sheet, but signing up with free portfolio trackers, such as the one provided by Value Research, is a better option. It calculates your capital gains on the basis of the 31 January price.
 
 
 
 Since LTCG tax at 10% will be applicable only from 1 April 2018, tax experts say that it makes sense to book profits before 31 March, but only if the gains are substantial. “Investors whose gains are less that Rs 1 lakh per annum don’t need to take any action,” says Asrujit Mandal, Partner, BDO India. If you want to keep some of the well-performing stocks in your portfolio, you can book profit by selling them now and then buying back after a gap of a few days. You should not sell stocks that have done well, but are currently trading below their 31 January prices. Tax authorities won’t treat the fall since 31 January as a short-term capital loss. But, if the stocks that you have held for long are trading below their purchase price, you should sell them only after 1 April. “You can’t set off these losses against other LTCG. So it is better to wait till 1 April,” says Vishvajit  , Founder, Quicko.com.
 
 
 
 The facility of filing income tax returns for two financial years is no longer available. “From this financial year, you need to file the tax return in the assessment year itself. This means 31 March is the deadline for filing returns for 2015-16 and 2016-17,” points out Sonagara. Though you can file tax return till 31 March, don’t make late tax filing a habit. Even if you have doubts about tax filing, it is best that you file it by 31 July. “It makes sense to file the tax return by 31 July and, if needed, you can file a revised return before 31 March,” Sonagara adds. Another problem with late filing is the treatment of losses. “If you have incurred any loss, you need to file the tax return on time. Otherwise, you can’t carry forward the loss to the next financial year,” says Mandal.
 
 
 
 You must review your portfolio on an yearly or a half-yearly basis and the start of the financial year is a good time to take stock, say experts. The reintroduction of LTCG tax on equities makes it particularly important to do so. A review, however, does not necessarily entail a change in your portfolio. The review needs to be done at several levels. First, you should check if your asset allocation has changed. “Stock markets have done well in the past few years and portfolios may have got skewed in favour of equities. So, investors need to realign their asset allocation to their original levels,” says  , Founder, PlanRupee Investment Services. Second, you need to see what has worked well in your portfolio and review your mutual fund and stock holdings. Exiting a fund based on its one-year performance is a bad idea. Instead, find out the reason for its underperformance. “Value funds underperform in a bull market and it will be a mistake to throw them out for this reason,” says Kunal Bajaj, Founder and CEO, Clearfunds.
 
 
 
 Most people think about tax-saving investments only at the close of the financial year and often end up investing in the wrong products. Tax planning at the start of the year will help you avoid making hasty decisions. As a first step, assess the amount to be invested for saving tax. Consider all Section 80C tax deductible expenses—tuition fee of kids, principal component from housing loan  , annual premium on existing insurance policy, etc. “Once you decide the amount to be invested under Section 80C, fix allocation to equity and debt instruments. For equity investments, starting an SIP in an ELSS fund is the best strategy,” says Sadagopan.
 
 
 
 Despite the recent reduction in interest rates, Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) offers the highest interest among debt investment products. “Due to political reasons, the EPF will always generate a better return than competing debt products,” says Melvin Joseph, Founder, Finvin Financial Planners. EPF subscribers can contribute more to the scheme via the Voluntary Provident Fund (VPF) route without any cap on the quantum of contribution.
 
 Most companies allow this option only at the start of the financial year. So you need to act fast.
 
 
 
 Though most people get annual bonuses in March or April, only a few have a clear plan on how to invest it. “You have worked hard over the past 12 months to get that bonus. It should be treated as a deferred salary, not as free money,” says Joshi. “If you have a high-cost loan, outstanding credit card debt, etc., first pay off that debt. Paying 2-3% interest per month is insane,” says Bajaj of Clearfunds. The balance can be split between consumption and investment. “A bigger portion can be used for spending if all goals are comfortably placed. But if there are not enough savings to meet your goals, keep a bigger chunk of the annual bonus for savings,” says Joseph.
 
 
 
 Tax deducted at source (TDS) is a major worry for fixed and recurring deposit investors. Currently, banks deduct TDS if the total interest earned is more than Rs 10,000 in a year. The tax free interest limit for senior citizens has now been raised to Rs 50,000. The only way to avoid it is to submit the Form 15G or 15H (for senior citizens) on time. Since banks consider the total interest payable in a year for computing TDS, the deduction is made at the beginning of the financial year. So, it is best to submit the relevant forms in the first week of April itself. However, you need to be careful. “People who have taxable income are not eligible to file 15G and 15H forms. If you file it illegally, the IT Department can take action against you,” says Mandal.
 
