NEW DELHI:   won granted partial relief in the Delhi   on Monday when the legislative assembly assured it there won’t be any coercive action against the top bureaucrat till the next date of court hearing.

 Justice Rajiv Shakdher took on record the undertaking on behalf of the assembly that the   will continue with its meetings but not proceed against Prakash.
 
 The assembly’s stand came after Justice Shakdher asked it if it can defer the meeting for some time since the matter is before the court.
 
 However, HC declined Prakash’s plea to stay the notice issued by the committee, pointing out that the “speaker’s powers of contempt are vast”. The court said it needs to first take a view on its jurisdiction to examine decisions taken by the legislature.
 
 “Today it is the   tomorrow it might be the Lok Sabha. You have to address us on the issue, it requires consideration,” the court told senior advocate Siddharth Luthra who represented Prakash.
 
 The assembly and its panel conveyed its stand through senior lawyer Sanjay Hegde after it emerged that even while HC was hearing Prakash’s plea the privilege committee had started its scheduled meeting at the Old Secretariat building. Hegde further told court that committee proceedings against two IAS officers — J B Singh, registrar of cooperative societies and Shurbir Singh, chief executive officer of DUSIB, would continue as they have not moved the high court.
 
 Prakash challenged the privilege committee notice directing him to appear before it for skipping a meeting on February 20, which was scheduled a day after he was allegedly assaulted by two AAP MLAs Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal, both of whom are now in Tihar Jail.
 
 The matter came up before Justice Shakdher after a division bench comprising Justices G S Sistani and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal, which heard the matter briefly, said the plea should be dealt by a single judge bench as per the roster.
 
 During the brief hearing the division bench, however, did point out that efforts should have been made by both “sides” to “assuage tempers” and breach of privilege notices such as those issued by the assembly panel “add fuel to the fire”.
 
 The bench told the panel that “he is your chief secretary. If you do not respect him then how will things work. Was there no other way of calling him?”
 
 In his plea, the   submitted that he was “summoned to appear before the privilege committee for inquiry without being provided any copy of the complaint or opportunity to respond to the same”.
 
 Senior advocate Luthra termed the notice issued to his client a “clear case of malice” alleging that the counter blast came due to Prakash naming AAP MLAs Khan and Jarwal in his FIR for alleged assault.
 
 The CS in his plea filed through advocate Vivek Chib sought quashing of the notice issued to him by the committee. He said Prakash has a right to free and fair investigation and he has been asked to appear before the committee which has Khan as one of its member.
 
 Meanwhile additional solicitor general Sandeep Sethi, appearing on behalf of the lieutenant governor, supproted the chief secretary’s plea and maintained that the privilege committee does not have the power to direct the CS to incorporate adverse comments in the annual confidential report of another civil servant.
 
 
