THANE: Seven persons, including four employees of a private bank, have been arrested for siphoning off nearly Rs3.7 crore from the bank by tampering with its computer systems and giving out loans to 55 people using forged documents.

 The fraud came to light in November last year when   conducted an internal probe following suspicions over many loans sanctioned by its Thane branch during the previous financial year. “The bank’s fraud control unit found that between March and July 2016, its   processing software had been tampered with, loans to the tune of nearly Rs.3.7 crore given to 55 ineligible persons,” said  , senior inspector of Naupada police station.
 
  
  
 The police have so far recovered Rs 1.1 crore, including Rs 25 lakh deposited back in bank by the customers.
 
 Police said it was well-organized racket and handiwork of the bank staffers and the agents who organized loans for customers without documents but for a fat commission. “They prepared fake salary slips to showing monthly income of Rs 40,000-Rs50,000 and fake address proofs and got sanction for loans of Rs 5 lakh to Rs 7 lakh,” a police officer said.
 
 Among the seven arrested are sales manager Rohit Bhavsar, sales executive Chetan Shere, CPA staff officer   and data entry operator Girish Bhoir besides agents Prashant Keer, Sayeed Shaikh, and Ravindra Thakur.
 
 Based on the complaint lodged by the bank, the police tracked down the custom ers who had got the loan. While many was missing, some of those found told police they got the loans using fake documents. Their confessional statements were recorded under section 164 of CrPc in court, the officer said.
 
 Further probe revealed the the accused fraudulently got the user ID and passwords of the loan processing staff of the bank and got the loans "sanctioned" and disbursed. 
 
 “The seven accused were arrested in December last and a charge sheet was filed in the court in last month. Police continued with the further probe and recovered part of the sum which was swindled by the accused,” Sanjay Dhumal, a crime branch inspector, said.
 
 Police said a total of 36 persons who had taken personal loans have been traced. Police are on the lookout for three more accused, identified as Nilesh Mhatre, Uday Shinde and  .
 
 The police during the probe have also seized the computer hardware which was used for the fraud and sent the same for examination to the laboratory.
 
 The officer added that the police might, if needed, initiate the process of attaching the property of some of the accused to recovered the amount involved in the fraud.
 
 
