COIMBATORE:  ,  ,  , member of Lok Sabha representing   constituency in   said here on Friday.

 Reservation for women in elections is being exploited by men, the BJP MP said while speaking at ‘Youth Conclave for Nation Building’, a seminar held at  . “In villages where seats are reserved for women, politically powerful men make their mothers, wives or sisters contest in elections and win. Men use this to rule in proxy,” he said.
 
 Across the world, youngsters are using technology and social media to spearhead social campaigns and create positive political agenda, the 37-year-old leader said. “A campaign like MeToo revitalised feminism. It was started to address sexual harassment, but it went beyond to address issues such as equal pay, equal opportunity and gender justice,” he said.
 
 “There are only 11% women in Parliament and 52% in the assemblies. Considering that we have 52% women in our country, this is a shame,” Varun said and added that he was for a system of direct democracy where people mater more.
 
 “I had backed the Right to Recall policy in Parliament. If an elected candidate is not performing or facing grave charges, there should be spontaneous polling in 10 random places. If 80% people vote against the candidate, there should be a by-election in the candidate’s constituency,” Varun said, adding that it had not made him a popular figure in Parliament.
 
 “I am in public life because I have a famous surname. If I had some other surname, I would not have been known,” the Gandhi scion said. The political system should be revolutionised to let people decide what Parliament will debate, he suggested. 
 
 Saying that providing transferable skills should be the major goal of education, Varun cited several examples of how citizens across the country, through their initiatives, have brought about changes in their localities.
 
 Winding up his speech, he asked the students to tweet him the causes they think he should take up. “You have as much right over me as people from Sultanpur,” he concluded.
 
 
