KOLKATA : The Chinese temple in   has completed 300 years, standing tall as a symbol of their culture amid an exodus of several European communities who have migrated out in all these years. To mark the occasion, celebrations will start on Sunday with prayers by the monks from the Chowbagha temple, followed by a speech from representatives of the Chinese Consulate. And then there will be a lion dance and cultural programmes.

 The Chinese in Kolkata believe that the occasion also marks the tercentenary of the first “Chinese settlement” in Kolkata, when  , the first Chinese trader after whom the sleepy hamlet of Achhipur is named, touched the shores of Kolkata. Many historians have, however, said that Achew came to Kolkata in the late 18th century instead of early 18th century.
 
  
 “The temple was built in 1718 and we believe that Achew must have arrived barely a year or two before. So this also marks the first Chinese settlement here,” said Oyual That, the vicepresident of   that is entrusted with the upkeep of the temple. Legend has it that Achew had set up sugar mill and plantation in Achhipur, which changed the place to a buzzing Chinese settlement. A Chinese temple came up within a few years and the settlement was named Achhipur after the trader.
 
 Today, Achhipur does not have a single member of the Chinese community living there. Though the place turns into a   during Chinese New Year, there is not much activity throughout the year. In the absence of any member of the community, the temple is looked after by Faruqul  , the caretaker. Haque’s family has been doing this work for the past seven generations.
 
 “My ancestors were looking after Achew-babu when he started doing trade here. When the temple was built by him, he gave the job to one of my forefathers. Since then, every generation has served this temple,” says Haque, who knows all the rituals and even guides the Chinese people coming from outside.
 
 Currently, the community maintains the temple through local funding but they have spoken to the state government to promote Achhipur as a tourist destination. “This will bring in funds which will help us maintain the temple and the places around it,” said  , the president of the Indian Chinese Association.
 
 
