All 88 girl inmates of the controversial   children home refused to comply with the order of the Madurai bench of Madras high court by showing stiff resistance to shift to a new home identified by the Trichy district administration here on Monday. The girls turned down the plea of the administration stating their appeal, to free them from the home, was pending in the Supreme Court.

 TOI was the first one to report on the likely shifting of the girls into new home in a week’s time in its Trichy edition on January 01, 2018. 
 
 A team led by district social welfare officer (DSWO) S Usha went to the Mose Ministries home in   in Subramaniapuram in Trichy on Monday morning to shift the inmates to the new home as per the high court order.
 
 On the arrival of the team, the inmates locked themselves up inside the premises preventing the officials from executing the court order. The inmates put up resistance to move to another home and demanded that they continue to stay in the home, until their appeal is heard by the Supreme Court. They submitted a letter signed by them to the officials on the same.
 
 A source said that two of the inmates expressed willingness to move to the new home. However, a strong coercion from other inmates stopped the two from leaving Mose Ministries, thus leaving the officials to return empty-handed. After an hour-long effort to convince the girls went in vain, the issue was brought to the notice of Trichy collector K Rajamani.
 
 The home has been controlled by the district social welfare officer for more than a year following the court order to evict the administration led by Pastor   from there. The home administration led by Jacob had violated the norms since girls had been kept on the unauthorised premises for nearly two decades.
 
 In fact, a special original petition filed by the inmates of the Mose Ministries seeking freedom led a bench of Justices TS Sivagnanam and P Velmurugan to pass the order to move them to a new home. The court had observed that the demand of the 88 girls to be freed from the home was a valid one.
 
 The parents of three girls from Usilampatti area in Madurai also visited the home on Monday. They demanded that their children be sent with them. However, even their emotional appeal failed to yield any result.
 
 Muthu, a parent, from a village near Usilampatti claimed that his daughter was willing to reunite with his family. “My daughter was eager come with us and was not interested to go to any other home. But the court ordered them to stay in another home for one month. Let’s us wait for one more month,”   told TOI on Monday evening. 
 
 It may be pointed out that the court had directed the Trichy DSWO to file an interim report to the court on February 05, 2018 – after one month of their stay in the new home. In the wake of the resistance from the inmates, the district administration and the department of social welfare have begun discussions on approaching the issue legally.
 
 
