AGARTALA: The   has initiated an investigation into the allegations of a   (chief of the three-tier panchayat), Himangshu Roy, being forced to resign by a group of   supporters at Belonia. 

 According to reports, Roy attended a social audit at the district magistrate's office on Tuesday. When he returned to his office, a group of youths allegedly entered his chamber and forced him to sign on a resignation letter, which was later that day submitted to the district magistrate. 
 
 "I could not recognise any of them though they were local and issued threats to me, asking to resign," Roy said. "The incident was immediately reported to the district magistrate and the superintendent of police through email, seeking action. The action was also intimated to chief minister Biplab Deb," he added. 
 
 "Three youths were arrested for their suspected involvement in the case but released later," additional SP (South Tripura) Amitabh Pal said.
 
 CK Jamatia, district magistrate and collector of South Tripura, said the sabhadhipathi Himangshu Roy had e-mailed a complaint, following which police rushed to the spot but could not find anyone apart from the complainant there.
 
 Jamatia added that the resignation letter he received has been under scrutiny and police was asked to book the culprit. "No illegal activities will be tolerated at any level. The persons responsible for the act will be punished," he further said.
 
  condemned the incident and alleged that since coming to power, BJP has "terrorized the political environment" of the state, resorting to violence and compelling elected representatives in panchayats, clubs and associations to resign.
 
 "Because of mass resignation in panchayats, the development works in rural areas have been affected seriously and people gradually feeling insecure under BJP rule. Despite the chief minister's promise in the assembly, violence and forceful resignations are continuing. It is dangerous for democracy," CPM Lok Sabha MP Jitendra Choudhury said.
 
 BJP, on the other hand, denied the involvement of BJP workers. "Belonia is a small town. Everyone knows each other. Himangshu Roy is an old resident and it is difficult to believe that he could not recognize the youths who forced him to sign the papers. It might be a ploy on CPM's part to malign BJP and the government," BJP legislator from Belonia, Arun Chandra Bhowmik said.
 
 Deputy chief minister Jishnu Dev Varma, who is also panchayat minister, said only 3% of the elected representatives of the three-tier panchayat have resigned so far and there have been no reports of forceful resignation.
 
 
