SECUNDERABAD: Railway stations in the city have turned into major transit points for drugs with consignments going to various parts of the country. Despite regular raids by special teams of the government railway police, illegal drug trade is flourishing with marijuana, heroin and other banned substances being smuggled through the city.

 The contraband being transported on train is mostly from the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border and heads to Mumbai, Solapur, Pune and New Delhi. Consignments also make their way to some southern cities, including Bangalore and Chennai.
 
 
 Trains mostly sought after for smuggling include Konark Express, Lokmanya Tilak Express, Andhra Pradesh Express and Navajeevan Express, though pedlars are also arrested from other trains.
 
 “Secunderabad station has become a safe haven to transport contraband to the city. The illegal narcotic trade is thriving,” said a top official.
 
 Till now, around 30 drug pedlars have been arrested from   station and 58 cases under NDPS Act slapped on them.
 
 Some of the accused were women and children, in what appears to be an emerging trend for transportation of contraband. For instance, on March 17, a 55-year-old woman,  , a resident of  , was held at the station on charges of peddling 32kg dry ganja from Vizag to Mumbai.
 
 “Some poor families in the city are getting involved with inter-state peddling rackets for money. Teenagers are also involved with transporting contraband along with their parents,” said a railway police inspector, P Krishnarao.
 
 A few months ago, a 12-year-old boy from the city was held when he was going to Fatehnagar railway station to hand over contraband to smugglers. “They are being pushed into drug peddling due to financial constraints. They beg for alms, hawk at railway stations or work in stalls. They tend to occupy berths in train compartments,” the inspector told TOI.
 
 In 2017, the railway police claimed to have recovered around 4,422 kg ganja from 146 persons and slapped 81 cases on them.
 
 
