BENGALURU: After app-based taxis, an increasing number of startups are turning to dockless bicycle rental services to offer   to commuters.

 The dockless system enables users to find cycles at the nearest bicycle station, scan their QR code to unlock them and drop them off at any other designated location (the app will contain a list). Zoomcar recently started its cycle rental service, PEDL, in HSR Layout, Koramangala and Indian Institute of Science (IISc).  , a PEDL customer, said: "I pick up the cycle from HSR Layout, and enjoy riding to keep fit".
 
 Other dockless cycle-sharing startups, including Mobycy, Yulu, Mobike, Ofo, Ola Pedal, SmartBike, Enfrein iBike, ParXsys MoBliT Systems, Hero and  , are also planning to launch services in Bengaluru soon. 
 
 A study conducted by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) in 2014 revealed that cycle ownership in Bengaluru has reduced from 29% in 2001 to 23% in 2011. However, experts says dockless cycles are likely to become popular because of the city’s pleasant climate, clogged roads and expansion of cycle tracks.
  
  
 
 Greg Moran, CEO and co-founder of Zoomcar’s PEDL said: “We have more than 1,000 cycles in Bengaluru and the response has been overwhelming so far. The point-to-point nature of the service offers significant flexibility to the end user. People are happy using PEDL as an eco-friendly transportation mode for short trips, be it for shopping or commuting to work.” 
 
 “We are already present in IISc and Bagmane Tech Park. At IISc, not only students, but even faculty members use the service. In future, IISc intends to make the campus non-motorized,” added Moran.
 
 Akash Gupta, founder of Mobycy, said they are planning to roll out the service in two weeks. “We’re looking at starting with 100 bicycles, which would be increased in a phased manner. We are working with many educational campuses, universities & IT parks,” he said, adding, “We have GPS-powered cycles and a strong on-ground operations team to manage theft and vandalism. We’re operating in eight cities; in Gurugram we have 500 bicycles,” said Gupta.
 
 Vibhor Jain, CEO of Mobike India said: “We are looking at expanding globally and India is being considered a potential market.”
 
 Sebastian Schlebusch, international business development (director) of Germany-based Next Bike, said: “We have tied up with Chartered Speed Pvt Ltd in Ahmedabad and Smart Bike Mobility Pvt Ltd in Hyderabad. We are also associated with Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) to achieve seamless integration of different modes of transport”.
 
 Asked about plans to launch Ola Pedal in Bengaluru, Ola in a statement said: “We are in touch with the authorities and are evaluating the opportunity...We are piloting Ola Pedal in various campuses (IIT Kanpur and IIT Madras). Ola Pedal sustains our commitment in this regard as a smart solution for first and last-mile connectivity.”
 
 Previous initiatives like Namma Cycle and Kerberon Automations adopted the third-generation docking system, where the user has to return the cycle to the pick-up point, and were not a success due to inadequate funding.
 
