VISAKHAPATNAM: With chief minister   launching two electric cars —   e-Verito and Tata Tigor — during the   Partnership Summit and a few Mahindra Reva electric cars already plying in Visakhapatnam, the need of the hour is to consider the issue of a separate number plate for such green cars. The few electric cars in the city are currently following the existing colour code for number plates.

 In January, this year, the government’s think-tank National Institution for Transforming India (Niti Aayog) prepared a draft policy on electric vehicles, that suggested that green cars will have green number plates.
 
 Currently, vehicles plying on Indian roads bear four types of number plates — white number plate with black lettering are for personal use, yellow number plate is for commercial purpose, black with yellow letterings is for commercial vehicles available on rent for self-drive, and white lettering on blue background for embassy vehicles. Apart from that, there are two special category number plates for select VVIPs. The red-colour number plate is used by the President and governors of states and number plates used by military vehicles, which follow a unique numbering system. 
 
 Confirming this move to TOI, M Kamalakar Babu, managing director of New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Limited, said that the department would work according the new policy. 
 
 “We will ask the Road Transport Authority ( ) to issue green number plates as soon as we get the official notification,” Babu said.
 
 He further pointed out that the draft policy extends certain benefits to  , such as toll waiver and free parking for three years among others. “But everything depends on the final approval of the chief minister at the state level,” Babu added.
 
 When contacted, the RTA deputy transport commissioner S Venkateswara Rao said “We have no communication about the green number plates from higher ups. We have no idea about the policy or the green number plate.”
 
 
