CHANDIGARH: The special investigation team (SIT) of Haryana Police, which is investigating the violence that erupted after the conviction of Dera Sacha Sauda head   Ram Rahim Singh in a rape case, quizzed former   MLA and senior   leader Harminder Singh Jassi, a close relative of Gurmeet, on Wednesday. 

 Former   (Urban) MLA Jassi's daughter is married to Jasmeet Insan, son of Gurmeet, who is serving a 20-year sentence in  's Sunaria jail. Sources said Jassi admitted to have followed the dera head's cavalcade of cars on August 25, 2017, when Gurmeet came to Panchkula for verdict in the rape cases against him. However, he denied being present in Panchkula at the time of the violence or having any intimation about any conspiracy to cause unrest.It is alleged that Jassi not only accompanied the cavalcade but that a few of the Punjab policemen present in the Panchkuka district court premises on August 25 were linked to him.
 
 Jassi, who failed to turn up before the SIT last week, reached the Sector 20 police station in Panchkula around 1 pm. Accompanied by his security personnel, he reached in a small group and quietly walked into the police station premises, where he was quizzed for five hours. 
 
 Headed by assistant commissioner of police  , the SIT asked him 150 questions. He was also questioned about the meetings with Gurmeet ahead of his conviction and was asked to share details of his mobile phone number and security guards allotted to him by the Punjab police.
 
 Officials said Jassi was questioned on the basis of disclosures made by Dera Sacha Sauda Trust chairperson Vipassana Insan, Gurmeet and confessional statements of  , said to be Gurmeet's adopted daughter.
 
 Keeping the investigation under wraps, Panchkula police commissioner A S Chawla said, "Jassi has been questioned in the theory related to the conspiracy of violence and mayhem on August 25. He has been told that if required, he can be summoned again for questioning or cross-verification of statements."
 
 He also said Jassi is among people under the SIT lens. After his long interrogation, Jassi refused to speak to the media. "I don't face any allegation of violence. I have full faith in the law of the land," he said.
 
 
