KOLKATA: A few hours before the fire, at least three doctors at   and Hospital were attacked as the family of a patient, who died while being shifted from the emergency to a ward, went on rampage, alleging negligence. Besides being kicked and punched, the three doctors — emergency ward in charge Syed Rafi Ahmed and his juniors   and Sourabh Majumdar — were assaulted with wooden chairs and tables.

 But before the crowd could charge on further, other doctors and staff members, along with the policemen posted at the hospital outpost, chased them away. Three persons, Habib Bakshi alias Raja, Md Siraj Ahmed and Shahjadi Begum, were rounded up.
 
 DC (SED) Kalyan   said Sk Arshad Hussain, a resident of Topsia 2nd Lane, was brought to the emergency ward of the hospital around 1.30am on Thursday. On checking, Dr Ahmed recommended immediate hospitalization and as Hussain was being shifted to the ward, he reportedly died. Within 15 minutes, around nine members of his family barged into the emergency ward, shouting and abusing the doctors, alleging negligence, Mukherjee said. The family alleged that the doctors did not attend to the patient in time.
 When Dr Ahmed tried to pacify the family, pointing out that other patients were being disturbed, they beat him up. They attacked Dr Ayub and Dr Majumdar with chairs and tables as the two tried to intervene.
 
 Following the attack, junior doctors threatened to strike. However, the hospital authorities convinced them not to take such a step after a meeting of the representatives of junior doctors and the hospital administration, the heads of different departments, police and the hospital’s   chairperson, Dr Santanu Sen. “It is unfortunate that junior doctors often have to face such assaults. We are taking all measures to step up security at the hospital,” said Dr  , medical superintendent and vice-principal at CNMCH.
 
 Based on a complaint lodged by Dr Ahmed, a case has been registered under sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 34 (common intention) of IPC, along with section 4 of West Bengal Medicare service Personnel and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to Property) Act 2009. The arrested trio were produced in court on Thursday.
 
 
 
  
 
