MUMBAI:   police have filed an FIR against Urvaksh Naval Hoyvoy, partner of the landmark  , for cheating, forgery, breach of trust, criminal intimidation and conspiracy.

 His wife Amy and a Suratbased developer,  , too have been named in the police complaint lodged by owners of Parsi Dairy Farm. Meher Patel along with other partners has alleged Hoyvoy forged a power of attorney for a 300-acre family plot in Talasari.
 
 
 On Wednesday, two police teams went to Talasari to carry out searches and record statements of those involved.
 
 Hoyvoy has been accused of converting the agricultural land, located on the Maharashtra-Gujarat border touching the national highway, into non-agricultural without the knowledge of the partners.
 
 He then sold portions of the plot to investors, including Barvadia, who claimed to have entered into a joint development agreement with Hoyvoy for the entire land.
 
 Deputy Commissioner of police (Zone 1) Manoj Kumar Sharma told TOI investigations were on. “We have summoned people connected with the case and called for the property documents.’’ The police are also planning to question Hoyvoy and Barvadia. Hoyvoy did not respond to a text message and phone call from this newspaper.
 
 In the FIR, Patel said the family learnt in December 2010 that their signatures had been forged to convert their agricultural land into non-agricultural. Non-agricultural land can be used for development purposes.
 
 The complainant said early this year, a person called Hemandra Gandhi had informed the partners that he had purchased two plots from Hoyvoy. It was also found that the Hoyvoys and Barvadia had formed a company,  , to sell portions of the 300-acre plot.
 
 The company was collecting Rs 1.50 crore from investors as booking amount. Patel said this was a conspiracy which resulted in a huge loss to them. The partners said that during a court-appointed arbitration in 2011, Urvaksh Hoyvoy had given an undertaking he would not dispose of, alienate, encumber or create third party rights on the property.
 
 The family said that the fake power of attorney dated January 1, 2007, was neither registered with the sub registrar of assurance nor had stamp duty been paid. The power of attorney allegedly gives all authority to Urvaksh Naval Hoyvoy for carrying out development of the Talasari property.
 
 The partners have also filed a petition in the Bombay high court against the Hoyvoys as reported by TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Last week, justice S J Kathawalla directed Hoyvoy to disclose if he had created any third party rights on the land or received money based on this power of attorney. The court also directed him to disclose all transactions, agreements, MoUs etc. he may have created or executed with any individual, company or partnership firm since the date he was made partner of Parsi Dairy Farm.
 
 
