KOCHI: The state government has sanctioned Rs 8 crore for the construction of geotube seawalls and for the rebuilding of existing seawalls at   coast to protect the coastal areas from sea attacks and erosion, said district collector   on Monday.

 He said that as soon as the technical sanction or approval for the project is received, the tender procedures would begin. He added that he has issued a directive to irrigation department authorities to speed up steps to obtain technical sanction.
 
 In the wake of Ockhi cyclone, district administration and major irrigation department decided to deploy geotube seawalls at Chellanam and had also sought sanction for around Rs 8 crore to build 1,150 metres of seawall along the Chellanam coast. “Geotube seawalls will be built at Velankanni Bazaar,  , Vachakkal and  , said an irrigation department official.
 
 Meanwhile, residents at Chellanam gave a mixed response to the announcement. Though most of them welcomed government’s decision, some were sceptical. Chellanam panchayat president Mercy Jose said that it was a good move and added that emphasis would be given to complete the construction of seawall on a war footing.
 
 “We have been demanding the construction of a 300-metre seawall at Velankanni Bazzar and Companyppady as well as a 100-metre wall at Vachakkal and a 110-metre Puthenthode fishing gap for the past few years. Had it been built at that time, Ockhi would not have caused this much havoc. However, we are happy with the fact that this time the authorities have decided to open their eyes and have agreed to give us the fund to carry out the seawall construction, said Mercy Jose.
 
 People in Chellanam are not ready to take the promises and sanctions offered by the officials at face value due to bitter experiences in the past. “We hope the promises won’t remain just in paper, said Thomas Kaliparambil, a resident.
 
 T A Dalfine, a member of   said the project to build adequate number of breakwater or groynes (pulimuttu) in Chellanam should also begin immediately.
 
