NEW DELHI:   witnessed high drama early on Sunday as two criminals on a KTM sportsbike went on a snatching spree. However, their escapade was cut short after their second victim chased them and, in the process, the snatchers rammed the bike into a car and got injured.

 While one of the snatchers was caught, the other escaped. However, he was arrested later. DCP (north)   confirmed the developments. The accused were identified as Devender Singh from   and Manoj from Daryaganj. Manoj can pull off wheelies and stoppies with ease. He used these stunts to escape after committing a crime. The duo has confessed to having committed more than 100 snatchings in the last one year.
 
  
  
 The first incident happened outside the NDPL office near Maurice Nagar police station around 12.30am. Romeo Ranjit, a student from Manipur, was waiting for a cab to go to the airport when the bikers snatched his phone. Ranjit’s friend, Birbal, chased the bikers but they managed to flee in the dark.
 
 Emboldened by their success, the snatchers headed towards   where a youth   accompanied by his friend Vikrant was negotiating with a cab driver. As Vineet was answering a call, the bikers tried to snatch the phone.
 
 Vineet ducked for cover and the phone fell on the road. He raised an alarm and chased the snatchers who accelerated their bike to flee the spot. However, the rider lost control and rammed into a Verna parked near a 24X7 outlet in the area. People soon cornered the snatchers, but the injured rider managed to escape. The pillion rider was thrashed by the public. Police were informed and he was handed over to the PCR personnel.
 
 Cops took Devender to the police station and while the FIR was being registered the first victim, Ranjit, reached there to lodge a complaint. He immediately recognised the man in police custody and said that Devender had targeted him as well. On interrogation, Devender gave leads about his associate. Manoj was arrested in a raid from central Delhi. The KTM bike used in the crime has been seized.
 
 
