PANAJI: Putting to rest all speculations about mid-term polls in Goa or a change in leadership,   national   Amit Shah said here on Sunday that the Manohar Parrikar-led coalition government in Goa will complete its full five-year term and exhorted booth-level party workers to ensure at least 35 BJP members get elected in the 40-member House in the next assembly polls.

 Shah, in his 30-minute address to nearly 16,000 booth workers at Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee indoor stadium, said he wanted to assure them that like last time, the government would complete its full term.
 
 “The instability seen in Goa of governments coming and going... I only want to tell you that last time the BJP government completed five years in Goa and I want to assure you that this time also the BJP government in Goa will complete five years and go for the next polls to get an even bigger mandate,” he said.
 
 BJP has 14 MLAs in the 40-member House, while its allies Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) and   (GFP) have three members each. The coalition government is also supported by three Independents. Congress with 16 MLAs is the single largest party, while NCP has one.
 
 Shah, who spent close to three hours in Goa where his only engagement was to address the party workers, also sent out a message to his cadre that they should ensure BJP’s victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In the 2014 general elections, BJP won both the Lok Sabha seats from Goa.
 
 “All the karyakartas today should leave from here after making up their mind that they are the weapon to end instability in Goa. The booth karyakartas should decide that not only will we win both the Goa Lok Sabha seats in 2019, but when the next Goa assembly polls arrive, BJP will form its government winning more than 35 of 40 seats,” he told them.
 
 “This atmosphere of instability is an eclipse on Goa’s development. And it is the karyakartas who will take it upon themselves to end this eclipse,” Shah said, adding with booths formed in 36 of the 40 constituencies in Goa, this was the highest ratio for any state in the country.
 
 Shah refrained from touching on the contentious issue of the Mhadei water-sharing with Karnataka, but gave a broad hint that the party was interested in sorting out the mining crisis within a short span of time, “through the medium of court”.
 
 “Because of a court case, there is a problem related to mines. I don’t want to say much... only want to say that within a short time, through the medium of court, a solution will be reached,” Shah said about the mining crisis.
 
 On February 7, the Supreme Court had revoked all 88 mining renewal licences given to the leaseholders and had put an end to the entire operations from March 16.
 
 Shah also told the gathering that Prime Minister   had increased Goa’s allocation under the 14th finance commission by Rs 10,000 crore from what was allocated to the state under the previous government. Goa was later provided another Rs 16,000 crore for infrastructure development works. Shah said that construction of the Zuari bridge would be known as a unique technical effort in the world.
 
 The BJP president also said that the national health insurance scheme announced by Modi was framed taking a cue from the Deendayal Swasthya Suraksha Yojana introduced in Goa under Parrikar.
 
 
