COIMBATORE: In the first ever   board exams conducted in Tamil Nadu, three western districts – Erode, Tirupur and Coimbatore – bagged the top three positions respectively when the result was announced on Wednesday. While usually at least one southern district such as Virudhunagar and Sivaganga come at the top three positions, this time their western counterparts have beaten them.

 While Erode recorded the highest pass percentage of 97.28%, Tirupur district followed with 96.40% and Coimbatore with 96.19%. Virudhunagar, which had come first in Class XII and third in Class X, came fourth this time with 95.70%.
 
 Officials of the education departments of the three western districts lauded the effort put in by teachers and also credited the proactive measures adopted by the departments in the face of the newly-announced Class XI board examination.
 
 There was widespread confusion among teachers and students alike as the decision to include Class XI in the ambit of board examinations was announced in May 2017. Teachers said they were lost as they had no previous question paper pattern to refer to. Anticipating the confusion, education department officials from Erode and Coimbatore conducted workshops and awareness programmes for both teachers and students to face the exam.
 
 Erode had been consistent in its performance this year in all the three board exams, coming second in both Class X and XII. Chief educational officer of Erode R Balamurali said the department had conducted a training programme for teachers in August. “We also conducted motivational programmes for students with the help of NGOs,” he told TOI.
 
 The Coimbatore education department also conducted a training programme for teachers. “We conducted a subject-wise workshop for teachers and also motivational programmes for Class XI students,” said chief educational officer P Ayyannan.
 
 Chief education officer of Tirupur S Shanthi said headmasters and teachers had worked hard to ensure that all students performed well in Class XI board exams. 
 
 Also, the education departments had deputed post-graduate grade teachers from Class X to teach Classes XI and XII, wherever there were vacancies. 
 
 Meanwhile, government school teachers in Coimbatore said vacant teaching posts in Class XI and XII were filled with PG grade teachers from Class X. They pointed out this as one of the reasons for Coimbatore slipping in Class X results.
 
 
