ROHTAK: A series of rapes and brutality with hapless girls in   may have shaken the society to its core, but social activists, intellectuals and khap leaders claim they had foreseen it long ago.  , former general secretary of the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA), said the women had been asserting their dominance in the agrarian state and men were trying to suppress them.

 “Be it sports or academic excellence, girls in the state have been putting their best foot forward. Feeling sidelined, men try to suppress women through such acts of brutality,” she said. Easy availability of pornographic material on internet and smartphones to frustrated and unemployed youths, who remain unmarried due to paucity of brides, add fantasies of brutality to their carnal desires, she said.
 
 “Such youths whose desire to get a decent job and a life partner remains unfulfilled feel society is responsible for not giving them a dignified life and start caring least about the outcome of such heinous acts,” said Sangwan.
 
 Former professor of psychology from   (KU)C R Darolia, however, dubbed the breaking of social order in society as one of the chief reasons of such heinous crimes against women in Haryana. He said earlier elders, neighbours and visitors used to play the role of a big family in cultivating values in a child. “But now, they have started withdrawing from their responsibilities as the society has turned individualistic,” he said.
 
 Attributing lack of fear of law in people’s mind as another reason, he said the law enforcement agencies preferred to act only when something occurs. “They seem to spend their time somewhere else while criminals manage to go scot-free, sending a wrong message to others,” he said.
 
 Expressing their inability to extend any help to contain the issue, advocate Tulsi Grewal, who is the head of Meham Chaubisi khap, said the social administration system had turned ineffective. “Khaps used to summon the rape accused and bash him in public to embarrass not only him but his whole clan. It used to serve as deterrent for others. But now such perverts prey on fair sex, believing that they can escape punishment by taking advantage of loopholes in law,” said the khap leader.
 
 Offering a solution to the grave social anomaly, Grewal said they would meet politicians to rope in khaps to play a role in counselling youths to stay away from committing such crimes. 
 
 
