MUMBAI: The   may boast that it did not increase the   for the first 2 km during the  , but in seven years, the fare has been hiked by 167 %,   say. This is the period when the number of   fell 35%, from 43.7 lakh in 2009-10 to 28.3 lakh in 2016-17.

 In 2010, one could hop on to a bus by paying Rs 3, but by August 2017, the fare had gone up to Rs 8, transport experts and activists pointed out at a media meet on Wednesday.
 
 
  
 This is too steep when compared to the consumer price index—it examines the average of prices of consumer goods and services—for workers which went up by 77% during the period, activists said.
 
 “The fare hike in the range of Rs 1 to Rs 12 for distances over 4 km is uncalled for,” said A V Shenoy of Mumbai Vikas Samiti. “We are not assured of reaching our destination on time as there is no right of way for buses. Why should we be burdened with fare hikes?"
 
 Transport analyst Hussain Indorewala demanded that the BMC completely subsidise bus transport in the city. “It is an essential service. The latest hikes will only bring falling ridership, growing congestion on roads, longer travel times and rising deficits,'' he pointed out.
 
 Rajya Sabha MP Kumar Ketkar said that a single bus occupied road space equivalent to three to four cars. “But a bus carried several more passengers compared to cars and should be given priority in Mumbai as is done in other countries like the US. In fact, we should create more road space for buses, impose hefty parking fees for private vehicles and earmark dedicated bus corridors wherever possible," he said.
 
 Adding in the same vein, transport expert Ashok Datar said that if there is a dedicated bus lane, it can result in 170 buses travelling in an hour and can drastically reduce travel time. Activist Sudhir Badami said that there was an urgent need to have "adequate public transport" in Mumbai and the government should also emphasise on cycling and walking wherever possible.
 
 Aamchi Mumbai, Aamchi BEST, a citizens group, will soon petition the government and the BEST on slew of measures to improve functioning of BEST. Vidyadhar Date, convenor of the group, said, “The government should intervene and bail out BEST from the red. If you increase fares, you will only discourage more people not to travel by buses. This will be a bad trend and result in more private cars hitting our roads which is already bursting at the seams.” Ketkar suggested that citizens be encouraged to cycle distances up to 8-10 kms. "We can start with the stretch between Dadar and CSMT where citizens can be encouraged to cycle to workplace,'' he added.
 
 Asked about the views expressed by the activists, BEST officials said the fare hike on long distance routes was part of turnaround measures to curtail losses.
 
 
 
