Bhubaneswar: Private detectives, unheard of here even a few years ago, have started gaining popularity in the city. Be it pre or post-matrimonial investigations, banking or corporate fraud, detectives these days are most sought-after. 

 The city has around 10 private detective agencies that operate throughout the state and beyond. "We are flooded with pre-matrimonial cases in which we verify the antecedents of brides and grooms. We not only keep a watch on them, but on their family members and friends. We also receive post-wedding cases in which married couples suspect each other of having extramarital affairs," said  , who runs DM Barco Private Detective Agency. Detectives said they are in demand now because of changing lifestyles, busy schedules of clients and the social media boom. "When I started my business in 2009, I used to receive only a handful of cases. Ever since social media became popular and internet bridged the gap between people, conmen became more active. We solve the problems of busy clients who want quick results," Barik said, adding that many companies took his help to bust rackets selling fake products using original brand names or logos.
 
 Argus Spy Mantra Detective Agency's operational head Vishnu Das   said his company had become active after Bhubaneswar turned into an educational hub. "We often get calls from parents from outside the state whose children study in the capital city. They want us to keep an eye on their children's activities. We work in secrecy and submit reports to them," Goswami said.
 
 "Many companies that have branches here but headquarters in other states rope in detective agencies to keep tabs on their employees. We join the companies as employees and submit reports to the company headquarters," Goswami said.
 
 A detective said they stayed away crimes probed by police. S S Karan, director of Countrywide Detectives, said, "We ensure that our work does not clash with that of police. At times, victims who have already approached police for help in petty crimes take our assistance. In such cases, we inform police about our work and take their permission,"   said.
 
  companies said private detectives came in handy for them. "We approach police only when our customers cheat us. But when we insure somebody, we need to verify their antecedents and financial background. Though police can do character verification, the process gets delayed as they are burdened with so many tasks. For us, detectives are a good choice," said  , manager of an insurance firm.
 
 
