Nagpur: A weeklong study tour across several places in Maharashtra ended in an 18-hour protest by 60 students, including girls, of Ambedkar Institute of Social Work in front of its premises at Kailash Nagar in Manewada on Tuesday night.

 The BSW third-year and MSW IV semester students had refused to go home seeking partial refund of tour fee — Rs3,700 — and withdrawal of warning to rusticate them.
 
 At 8pm on Tuesday night, the students de-boarded the bus but spent the entire night in front of college gate along with their parents.
 
 The outcry forced principal Vinod Gajghate to rush to the college at night and pacify the students.
 
 Personnel from Ajni police station too reached the spot. The protest was called off at 2pm on Wednesday when the principal agreed to all the conditions except fee refund.
 
 The students alleged mismanagement such as insufficient seating capacity in bus, unfit food and lack of mattresses during the tour. 
 
 “The bus was a 50-seater. At a time, 10 students had to either stand or sit on floor. We were told that seats would be vacated at Wardha. But when it didn’t happen some of us wanted to return midway. The organizers Mohini Thoolkar and Madan Gaute threaten to rusticate us if we left the tour,” they said.
 
 The aggrieved students added that Yavatmal and Ralegan Siddhi were skipped though they were on the itinerary.
 
 Originally, Yavatmal, Ralegan Siddhi, Ganpatipule, and Goa were the destinations for the Jan 2 to Jan 8 tour. But, the operator and teachers decided to skip Yavatmal and Ralegan Siddhi.
 
 Gajghate said there were no issues regarding arrangement but the delay on first day sent the schedule for a toss.
 
 “Once they failed to reach the first spot on time, everyone starting complaining of some or other issues. The students constantly refused to board the bus and asked for halts. Two places had to be skipped to return on time. They also had a scuffle with the bus driver,” Gajghate said.
 
 “Still when they reached here, we extended full cooperation. They placed a couple of demands and I agreed to all except the refund of tour fee. The study tour was planned as per university syllabus. We haven’t accounted the expenses yet,” he added.
 
 PI Shailesh Sankhe of Ajni Police said the issue was mutually resolved and students went back after the management assured to fulfil their demand. “I had called the management representatives and explained them that these were students. There was no criminal demand or issues needing registration of offence against either side,” Sankhe said.
 
 
