COIMBATORE: When the whole of India was celebrating Independence Day on August 15 last year, workers of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) reported religiously for duty at K   village in Sulur and carried out an array of works. Not just Independence Day, the villagers were so dutiful that they never took a day off even on festivals such as Pongal, Diwali and other national holidays. At least, that is what the records maintained for the last six years by the panchayat say.

 According to the panchayat data, a total of 4,336 man-days were recorded on national and state government holidays, and the workers got paid for it in the past six years. Activists said this is a clear case of fraud. Villagers admitted that no such work under the scheme was carried out on these holidays.
 
 "Why would we work on Pongal when we have a lot to do in our houses," laughed 70-year-old M Subbathal. But when TOI showed them the records from their own attendance books with their names on it, the shocked villagers said they never worked on those days. "I was very much at my house on the day,’’ said M Pankajam, 49. The records of the panchayat show she worked on May 1, Labour Day.
 
 As per the documents, former panchayat president Hari Krishnan of the   has signed in all these attendance record books in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. On Republic Day this year, 63 villagers reported for work and were paid money, while on Independence Day last year 41 villagers worked.
 
 The panchayat officials have not just siphoned off the money, but have also violated the labour laws of the country which prohibits forcing people to work on national holidays and election days.
 
 The architects of this scam did not spare even International Labour Day on May 1. When across the world, workers are given leave, the panchayat authorities have created records of 43 villagers reporting for work.
 
 "This has been happening for years. When I attempted to raise the issue in gram sabha meetings, I was not allowed to speak,’’ said C Saravanan, a weaver who has been fighting against the irregularities in the scheme. "Whenever I filed   applications seeking records of work done on these days, all government departments involved denied information,’’ he said.
 
 It’s not just that the workers were unaware that their names were used to create bogus attendance records, they were also in the dark about the wages credited to their bank accounts taken away by dubious means. They were asked to sign on bank withdrawal challans and their thumb impressions were taken by middlemen (a villager acting as an agent of the panchayat president) without giving any proper reason.
 
 With these challans, the contractors and panchayat officials withdrew the wages credited into the accounts of these workers. P Kamalam, a 56-year-old worker enrolled in the scheme, said money from her account was taken in such a way. "I had Rs 1,200 in my account, but the contractors took away Rs 1,000. When I checked, the balance was just Rs200," she said.
 
 District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) officials seem to be aware of the scam. "Whenver we receive complaints we take action,’’ said executive engineer, DRDA, Chandrashekaran. However, he said sometimes villagers opted to work on festival days and as per norms they can be allowed. But when TOI pointed out that these workers were unaware that they worked on holidays, he said he would look into the issue.
 
 The   (SASTA) that comes under the central ministry of rural development has found similar irregularities across the state. R  , social auditor, who conducted an audit in Coimbatore, said they have sent reports on these irregularities to the central government.
 
 Additional director in-charge for implementation of   told TOI that she had also received reports on irregularities. 
 
 "I will conduct an inspection at Madhapur and other panchayats in the coming week," she said.
 
 
