The   will drive the city into a green revolution. The stations that are being developed on the route are all set to transport Nagpurians in a world-class infrastructure. As one steps in, not only modernity is seen at its best but also sustainability. From solar energy to rainwater harvesting, sewage treatment and reuse to eco-friendly transportation — every green concept that one can think of is under one roof. Recently, MahaMetro’s three stations — Khapri, Airport South and New Airport — have been awarded with the highest ‘platinum rating’ from the  . As per the council, the ratings are based on sustainable practices implemented in a structure to reduce environmental impacts. The structure should be a “perfect blend of ancient architectural practices and modern technological innovations”, and this is exactly how upcoming Metro stations can be described. Ahead of Metro joyrides expected to begin in a week, Manka Behl visits the Airport South station to bring to you the high points of the green building

 
 
 Airport South is reportedly the first Metro station in the country to implement the Bio-digester technology which was dedicated to the Swachh Bharat Mission by the Defence Research and Development Organization. Having capacity to treat 10,000 litres of sewage, the technology is environment-friendly and does not depend on conventional energy resources.
 
 “Our aim is to avoid any load on public infrastructure. Every drop of sewage will be treated and re-used for flushing toilets,” said  , deputy general manager (environment) at  . In the first step, human waste generated at the station is collected and passed through a screening chamber. Then, it is transferred to a specially-designed tank which can operate at any temperature and treat sewage using anaerobic digestion. In the third step, the waste water is transferred to a reed bed where roots of the plants absorb remaining organic nutrients. The treated water is then supplied to overhead tanks using dual piping. 
 
 
 
 MahaMetro is looking at a greener way for travelling to-and-fro to the Metro station. Avinash Yemde, senior environmental expert and consultant of the project, informed that GPS-enabled bicycles will be available at the stations. “For instance, a person wants to shop in Sitabuldi. He can get down at the nearest station, hire a bicycle, shop and then return it. To keep track on the cycles, we will be enabling them with GPS,” said Yemde. Cycling tracks will also be constructed at the stations. Dedicated parking lots for bicycles will be provided at prominent areas.
 
 MahaMetro also plans to introduce feeder buses which will be eco-friendly. It is also in talks with the NMC to rope in the Aapli Bus (city bus) service. “We will ensure that both the buses do not contribute to air pollution. We are looking at options like introducing ethanol-run buses,” said Yemde. A common smart card will be given for Metro, bus and bicycles.
 
 
 
 Almost 65% of the electricity for the stations will be generated from solar energy. At the Airport South station, solar panels of 110 kilowatt will be installed. This will generate 1.6 lakh units per annum. At the three stations — Khapri, Airport South and New Airport — solar system of 308kW will be installed.
 
 Officials said that the solar panels will be installed in the next few months. Also, the trains have a regenerative breaking system. The heat, which will be released after applying brakes, will be converted into electrical energy and this would be again used for running the Metro. This way, 30-40 % energy efficiency can be achieved, said officials. 
 
 
 
 
 To avoid wastage of rainwater and to recharge groundwater, the stations will be equipped with rainwater harvesting system. At Airport South station, rainwater will be collected in two pits of 2.1 metres diameter each. About 80% of the total runoff water will be harvested. “It will be collected in tanks having porous bottom layer. The water will increase the groundwater table of the area,” said Nitey. The stations are equipped with water efficient plumbing fixtures. "Though the water pressure is high, its volume is low,” added Nitey. Apart from sensor taps, stations will also have drinking water fountains, also called a bubbler, which avoid wastage of water. 
 
 
 
 
 The rooms at the stations are designed in a way that no external lights are required during the day, thus saving on electricity. Officials said LED lights will be used in the night and their brightness can be adjusted as per a programmed schedule. They added that the air-conditioners, pumps and motors are all energy efficient.
 
 
 
 
 All stations will ensure proper ventilation. Officials said that sufficient open spaces have been left for flow of wind. During pleasant climatic conditions, there would be no need of continuous use of fans or air-conditioners, they said. 
 
 
 
 
 The soil removed during construction is being used for planting native trees, which require less water, on the stations’ premises.
 
 
 
 Recycled glass, terracotta tiles and fly-ash from Koradi power station have been used for construction. The glasses absorb external heat, thus keeping the rooms cool. 
 
 
 
 Platforms will have a ‘priority area’ from where physically challenged, visually impaired, senior citizens or pregnant women can enter the train. They will also be provided wheelchairs and dedicated seats.
 
 Ramps will be constructed to ensure a barrier-free movement for wheelchairs. Stations will also have tactile paving to assist visually impaired commuters. Special toilets for the physically challenged are also being constructed.
 
 
 
 
 Lifts and escalators will be controlled by Variable Voltage Variable Frequency drive which is a type of adjustable speed drive. “At peak hours, the speed of escalators and elevators will have to be high. At other times, we will control the speed to save electricity,” said Yemde.
 
 
 
 
 During construction, innovative technologies are being used for minimizing dust and noise pollution. Measures are being taken to control fumes from diesel generators and other equipment. Monitoring is being done to keep a check on ambient environmental quality.
 
 
 
 
 There will be separate baby care rooms where needs of infants can be attended to.
 
 
 
 Passengers can contact Metro staffer at customer care department for any inquiry or feedback. All stations and trains will have panic buttons.
 
 
