NAGPUR: The state government has approved various amendments in Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) water by-laws. Consumers will now get rebate of 1% if they pay their bills within seven days.   is also now authorized to launch criminal prosecution against illegal water connections, if they are not regularized in six months.

 NMC had approved amendments in water bylaws and submitted them to the government for approval over a year ago. The state’s urban development department has approved the amendments on February 15. Accordingly, municipal commissioner   has implemented the amendments with effect from February 17.
 
 NMC official from water works department told TOI consumers will begin to get rebate of 1% from water billing cycle of March 1 to May 31. “Consumers will be given minimum rebate of Rs10 in case rebate amount is below Rs10.”
 
 There are provisions in the water bylaws to levy penalty of 2% per month for delay in paying water bills. Also, NMC had conducted a special drive to recover arrears and offered various incentives to defaulters. Considering these two steps, ruling party leader   had in 2014 proposed providing a rebate to consumers who pay their bills regularly.   was chairman of water works consultative committee at that time. Initially, the proposal was to provide rebate of 5-10% but this was lowered due to fear of high losses for the civic body if rebate was 2% or more.
 
 To regularize illegal water connections, NMC has for the first time got powers to initiate criminal prosecution. There were around a lakh illegal water connections, of which less than 40,000 have been regularized despite giving benefits like no levy of regularization charges, no cost for new water meter and connection in last two years.
 
 Joshi told TOI that NMC will now take action under new provisions if illegal water consumers still do not regularize their connections. “We have been requesting people to regularize their illegal water connections. A special regularization drive will be launched, and then action will be launched,” he said.
 
 Also, NMC has got powers to levy penalty of Rs50-200 on water consumers for violations of Water Bylaws. In case violators repeat the violations a second time, provisions have been made for penalty on daily basis — Rs5-50 per day — from date of confirming the violation.
 
 People residing in slums too have much to cheer as maximum water consumption criteria has been increased. Earlier, NMC used to charge Rs35 for consumption up to 10 units for non-concrete houses, and Rs60 for 12 units for concrete houses. The rates as per water tariff were levied if consumption was above 10-12 units. This level has been increased to 15 for non-concrete houses and 20 for concrete house. Also, regularization charges along with charges for new water meter and connection will not be levied to slum-dwellers till completion of 24X7 water supply scheme.
 
 
