PATNA: Electioneering for Patna University Students’ Union ( ) polls, being held after a lapse of more than five years, was at its peak on Wednesday. The entire PU campus was reverberating with slogans raised by candidates contesting the election and their supporters.

 Student organizations affiliated to different political parties took out colourful processions and paraded different colleges and postgraduate departments of the university. On several occasions, the processions taken by two rival organizations came across each other, but they showed utmost restraint and marched ahead peacefully. In each college, all the organizations and independent candidates displayed handwritten banners and posters at the prescribed places. Use of printed posters and vehicles in electioneering is not allowed as per the election code of conduct. The contestants also contacted voters in hostels, libraries, canteens, roadside tea stalls and private lodges and appealed for votes.
 
 While teams of old student organizations like All India Students’ Federation and All India Students’ Association led by Mitu Kumari, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad led by Mukesh Kumar, Chhatra   (U) led by Sangeeta Sharma, Chhatra RJD-NSUI combine led by Rahul Roy and Chhatra Lok Janshakti Party led by Chandani were seen actively campaigning on the campus, teams of some newly formed organizations like student wings of Jan Adhikar Party led by Pappu Yadav and HAM led by Jitan Ram Manjhi did not lag behind. Besides, some independent candidates were also seen contacting their friends and well wishers.
 
 Meanwhile, preparations are afoot to hold a peaceful election on Saturday. PU has already received the required number of ballot boxes from the district administration and the same have been delivered to different polling booths. All the colleges and faculties have finalized the names of teachers and non-teaching staff to be engaged for polling and counting of votes, said PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha.
 
 At a meeting held at Wheeler Senate House on Wednesday, all the contestants were apprised with the code of conduct and dos and don’ts of electioneering and polling. They were told that there would be no canvassing after 6pm in girls’ hostels and after 10pm in boys’ hostels. No unauthorized element will be allowed to reside in any hostel of the university. Students will be allowed to cast their votes only after showing their I-cards.
 
 PU vice-chancellor (VC) Rash Bihari Prasad Singh, chief election officer P K Poddar, students’ welfare dean N K Jha, proctor G K Palei, registrar Rabindra Kumar, town DSP Bhawesh Mishra and sadar SDO Hashmi attended the meeting.
 
 Earlier, a high-level meeting of the district administration and PU officials was held at the residence of Patna DM on Tuesday evening in which measures to be adopted for ensuring peaceful polling and counting of votes were discussed. Police is likely to conduct midnight raids on different hostels to weed out unauthorized elements from the campus.
 
 Patna College principal Ezaj Ali Arshad has been asked by the VC to make necessary arrangements for holding an open-house debate for presidential candidates at 2pm on Thursday. Each candidate will get 10 minutes’ time to present his or her election manifesto.
 
 
