KOCHI: The resignation of Kochi   (KBF) chief executive officer (CEO) Manju Sara Rajan has raised serious doubts about misappropriation of funds and the way the organisation is being run. In an email she sent to all trustees of KBF before quitting, Rajan wrote, “I myself have been target of lies because I attempted to bring to fore the problems that exist here and I attempted to bring in professionalism and transparency.”

 Rajan’s unceremonious exit comes when the Foundation is preparing for the fourth edition of the Biennale, set to begin in December this year. What reportedly provoked Rajan to write the mail was because KBF general manager NP Kurian wanted her to hand over important documents in her possession. “As the CEO I have never been the custodian of the Foundation’s documents.
 
  The documents he (KBF general manager NP Kurian) is referring to were always kept under lock and key in the very room that former CFO and the accounts department were in until she [former CFO] was removed from her post. The documents were kept under lock and key because I was aware that KBF’s former CFO lit a bonfire of documents on her departure from her previous office to the current one,” Rajan wrote in her email.
 
 KBF insiders told TOI that Rajan was referring to former CFO Treessa Jaifer, who was close to one of the founder trustees and was removed from the post after Rajan, at a KBF trustee meeting held in Mumbai in November last, demanded that a professional CFO and a statutory auditor be appointed.
 
 
 
 
 
 Though KBF appointed a statutory auditor, the post of CFO is still vacant after Jaifer was forced to exit. Sources said following the Mumbai meeting, Manju Sara Rajan “was sidelined” because she had taken a determined stand against  
 
 Her contract wasn’t extended and, in fact, her existing powers as CEO were curtailed. In her email, Rajan also said, “This feels like some kind of ploy, so as to have a fall-guy for present and future incompetence. I have seen many stories told about former heads of administration…I would suggest that no stories are fabricate and thrown around…”
 
 Despite TOI’s repeated attempts to contact them and publish their version, founder trustee   and   and founder trustee,   were unavailable for comment.
 
