NOIDA: The principal and two teachers of Ahlcon Public School in Delhi’s Mayur Vihar have been booked in a case of sexual assault and abetment to suicide filed in Noida, based on a complaint by   of Class IX student Ekisha Sah.

 While the case was registered by UP police, the Delhi government also ordered a separate probe by the department of education. 
 
 Ekisha (16) was found dead at her home in Noida on Tuesday evening. The FIR, which was registered around 2am, originally contained charges of criminal intimidation and abetment to suicide against Ahlcon principal Dharmendra Goyal, science teacher Neeraj Anand and social science teacher Rajiv Sehgal. The basis for the charges was the allegation by Ekisha’s parents that she had been harassed and “intentionally failed” by the school so that they could accommodate a student who “pays a donation”.
 
 Ekisha’s parents also specifically accused Sehgal of touching her inappropriately. They also claimed science teacher Anand mentally harassed Ekisha by telling her she was “doomed to fail” . They said Ekisha had told them about the teachers’ behaviour . 
 
 Later in the day, police added charges of sexual assault to the FIR under Section 354 of the IPC and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and suspended constable Nripendra Singh for not filing the FIR under suitable sections.
 
 At a press conference in Delhi on Wednesday morning, Ahlcon principal Goyal denied all the allegations. Asked if he was aware of the sexual assault allegations, he said Ekisha’s parents had never approached him with any complaint. The parents, however, claimed they had gone to meet the principal three to four times but he did not meet them. 
 
 Goyal said Ekisha hadn’t failed but had been instructed to sit for a re-test in two subjects. “It’s an unfortunate incident. The school has been following promotion policies of CBSE. We will cooperate with the probe agencies,” Goyal said. 
 
 In her Class IX assessment, Ekisha scored 27 (out of 100) in science and 17 in social science, the two subjects in which she was asked to take a re-test. Her scores were modest in the other subjects — 51 in English, 52 in Hindi and 37 in maths. The teacher’s remarks in her report card note encouragingly, “Ekisha is an excellent dancer. She shows good manners in the classroom. Regular practice, class participation and hard work can help in improving her grades further.”
 
 The result was declared on March 16. The parents demanded a re-evaluation of the Ekisha’s answer scripts by an independent panel. They also threatened to launch a protest if the teachers are not arrested. 
 
 Ekisha’s parents Raghav Sah and Deepmala Nutan are Kathak dancers and run an institute, Kalaratnam. Ekisha herself was a trained classical dancer. Her elder brother Aryan (19) studies filmmaking.
 
 Raghav said he had gone to Mandi House, Nutan was at a dance training institute in Ghaziabad, and Aryan was attending classes on Tuesday afternoon. Ekisha was alone at home. Aryan returned at 4.30 pm and found the door locked from inside. “I knocked but did not get any response. I waited for around 20 minutes but she didn’t answer,” Aryan said.
 
 Raghav rushed back home and he and Aryan broke open the door. “We found Ekisha hanging from the window grille with a stole. We rushed her to Kailash Hospital where doctors declared her brought dead,” he said. “Ekisha was intentionally failed in science and social science,” Raghav said, accusing teachers of harassing her. “The science teacher had told Ekisha that even in the re-test she was doomed to fail. My daughter was scared and complained to us. We ignored it believing teachers would not do this,” added Nutan.
 
 Nutan claimed the “harassment” went beyond academics. “This happened a few months ago. She was having her periods and had gone to the washroom and it took her a while to get back to class. But a female teacher grilled her for staying away, despite Ekisha clarifying why. The teacher also slapped her and made her stand on the table as punishment,” she said.
 
 Noida SSP Ajay Pal Sharma said police had seized documents pertaining to the student’s academic records from the school. “We are also examining CCTV footage to see if she was harassed on campus. Re-evaluation of the answer sheets is also part of the investigation,” Sharma said.
 
 The autopsy said the cause of Ekisha’s death was hanging. A police team headed by SP (city) Arun Kumar Singh visited Ahlcon and questioned the principal and the two teachers as well as other faculty members. “The teachers said they are ready for a probe, and have no role in the incident,” said a police officer.
 
 A parent of another Ahlcon student said Sehgal was known to have a “caustic” manner with students. “My daughter, who is in Class X and took his classes does not know of any kind of harassment linked to the teacher.” She added that the other accused teacher, Anand, had a reputation of being cordial and the allegations levelled against her came as a surprise. 
 
 (With inputs from Krittika Sharma in Delhi)
 
