CHENNAI: It is one of the biggest sports grounds in the city, especially in the northwestern suburbs, and has nurtured many national and international athletes, who have brought laurels to Southern Railway. But the Perambur  , maintained by Southern Railway Sports Association (SRSA) is in a state of disrepair. While equipment for different sports is rusted and unusable, sportspersons face hassles to enter the stadium due to internal politics.

  
  
 
 The boxers use a ring which was bought 36 years ago and is virtually falling apart. The ball badminton ground was taken over to make space for parking vehicles, and the one used now doesn’t have a fence. Equipment in the gymnasium is old and outdated, and track and field athletes players don’t have a separate track or a long jump pit. Neither are there are proper changing rooms for the players, including women. To make matters worse, the stadium does not have   on its premises.
 
 These are the list of complaints given in writing by coaches to SRSA during a meeting on November 25 last year. But six months down, sources say, no action has been taken.
 
 The lone sport that is fostered at the stadium is cricket, only because it is controlled by N Kanniah, general secretary of  , the sole recognised employees union. SRSA only permits a summer coaching camp, after an assurance that it would be subsidised for railway wards. 
 
 The cricket nets have a board which warn other sportspersons not to ‘encroach’. Rival unions say players are not allowed to practise when Kanniah takes his morning walk, an allegation he has denied in the past. Kanniah, however, did not respond to calls and messages from TOI to clarify the issues at hand. 
 
 V Baskaran, Olympic gold medallist and former sports officer at SRSA, said blaming Kanniah is taking the easy way out. "If Kanniah is controlling the ground, what are the officers doing? The officers of SRSA are inefficient. There is no toilet because the railways engineering department has not bothered to construct one." 
 
 Incidentally, SRSA’s secretary for the past four years is A K Sinha, the chief planning and development engineer. Sinha, who was shunted out of SRSA on Friday, told TOI he was not answerable to questions on steps taken during his term. Though Sinha will be representing SRSA in Delhi on Tuesday, he directed the queries to his successor.
 
 A senior railway official who has worked with SRSA said a shortage of funds was the reason for the declining infrastructure. Around 20 years ago, the stadium did have toilets; it did when a corporate group had leased it for division league cricket matches "The ground should be leased to private players. But unions, who complain about the facilities oppose private participation," the official said.
 
 
