Kolkata: There was no let-up in violence on the third day of filing nominations for the Bengal rural   on Thursday, with complaints of clashes and intimidation pouring in from across districts, the worst being Birbhum’s Nalhati where former Birbhum MP Ramchandra Dom was hit on the head, leaving him bleeding profusely. 

 At Uttar Dinajpur’s Itahar, adivasi BJP supporters ransacked the block office when the administration, prodded by a local Trinamool leader, asked poll candidates to leave office when they were lining up to file nominations. 
 
 A Left-Congress gathering in front of Nalhati I block office came under attack from armed miscreants owing allegiance to the ruling Trinamool. CPM activist Hiru Let suffered bomb injuries and was rushed to Rampurhat subdivisional hospital. “Trinamool men hurled bombs and took to brickbatting...A brickbat hit me on the head,” said the CPM leader who was profusely bleeding.
 
 Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee feigned ignorance when asked about the incident. “We have no such news,” he said while coming out of Raj Bhavan after meeting the governor over the poll violence.
 
 Trinamool’s Birbhum general secretary Tridib Bhattacharya, however, accused Left and Congress of carrying arms — bows and arrows, and bombs — while coming to the block office. “They attacked our men, resulting in the clash,” he said.
 
 Former MP Dom, also a CPM central committee member, didn’t deny the “bow and arrow” charge. “There were many adivasis in our rally. They carried traditional weapons — bows and arrows — like Sikhs carry kirpans wherever they go,” he said, adding the Left would take out such rallies to file nominations if the administration failed to give them security. 
 
 Violence broke out at Uttar Dinajpur’s Itahar when adivasi BJP supporters went berserk after they were asked by BDO Raju Lama to leave office. The directive came soon after local Trinamool leader Aslam Ali accused the BDO of allowing people to file nominations after 3pm. After BJP supporters ransacked the office, BJP men blocked NH-34. 
 
 At Uttar Dinajpur’s Chopra, police lathicharged a Trinamool mob and burst tear gas shells after coming under attack. 
 
 Local Congress and Left leaders jointly blocked roads in Murshidabad’s Raninagar, Khargram and Shyampur after they were prevented from filing nominations. 
 
 The BJP’s allegation on Wednesday that its candidate from Bankura’s Ranibandh, Ajit Murmu, was killed by Trinamool men lost steam after his family claimed on Thursday that Murmu was a victim of “BJP’s inner clash”. Partha Chatterjee highlighted the incident to refute allegations by BJP a day ahead of the Supreme Court taking up the party’s violence plea.
 
 
