AHMEDABAD/SURAT: Enforcement Directorate ( ) has attached properties worth   of an assistant sub inspector (ASI) of Surat Rural Police in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. The ASI had invested in farm lands and plots in the names of his wife and other family members. 

 “ASI Prakash Patil misused his official powers and position to earn illegal gratification and amassed wealth of Rs 4,89,46,523 against his declared income of Rs 40,56,268 thereby generating illegitimate income of Rs 4,48,90,255. The money was subsequently used in acquiring movable and immovable properties in the name of his family members and to make various expenses, which were more than 1,106.68 % of his known source of income,” said ED officials. 
 
 It was alleged that he was having ties with bootleggers active in rural parts of Surat and earned money by way of corruption.
 
 ED has attached seven properties that Patil had bought that included farm lands and plots in wife’s name. The properties in Dumbhal and Palsana areas of Surat district are estimated to be of Rs 83.11 lakh. 
 
 The ED initiated actions after a case was registered against Patil by Surat rural police in connection with the disproportionate assets case. Soon after the hooch tragedy in Surat city and rural areas in September 2016, senior cops began investigation into the police-bootlegger nexus. The department had suspended nine cops in Surat rural police including Patil.
 
 The case was registered at Kapodra police station of Surat district in October 2016. The spurious liquor manufactured and sold within the limits of Kapodra police station had claimed 23 lives. Patil was suspended and transferred to Dang by Shamsher Singh, Surat range IGP, as his nexus with bootleggers was found. He was posted as ASI in absconder squad of local crime branch of Surat rural police at the time of his suspension. Patil surrendered in a local court in Bardoli in February 2017 and was sent to Lajpore Central Jail after being arrested. He is currently on bail.
 
 
