DEHRADUN: A strong   accompanied by rain hit Dehradun on Friday evening, uprooting trees and utility poles in various parts of the city.
 
  The meteorological centre had predicted that Dehradun and other parts of the state were likely to witness thunderstorm and rainfall on Friday evening.
  
  According to the Met centre, Dehradun received 43.6mm of rainfall in a short span of an hour. This also led to a sudden drop in temperature. The evening temperature in the city was recorded at 20 degrees Celsius. Several places like Subhash Road and EC Road were waterlogged while many areas in the city were left without power supply.
  
  Gusty winds uprooted trees at Dalanwala, Buddha Chowk, Rajpur Road, Nehru Colony, Patel Nagar, Raipur, Selaqui and Cantonment area, leading to jams across the city. Tin roofs of a couple of shops and houses were also blown away in the wind.
  
  Due to disruption in power supply, traffic cops were seen on roads manually managing the traffic. “Dehradun witnessed a strong thunderstorm. Rainfall has led to a drop in temperatures in Dehradun which has seen high day temperatures,” said Bikram Singh, director, Met centre. Temperatures had crossed 40 degrees Celsius in Dehradun this month.
  
  Meanwhile, in Uttarkashi a seven-year-old girl is feared drowned in flash floods in Gangtadi village in Naugaun block after heavy rain in Uttarkashi district on Friday.
  
  According to an official from the disaster management department, Ram Singh, 52, his wife Dhansari Devi, 45, and daughter Savitri took shelter from rain under a shed near a stream. The stream swelled up with rain water and washed away three of them. Local residents were able to rescue the parents but the girl was swept away by strong currents.
  
  Meanwhile, SDRF and revenue department teams that were sent to rescue the girl were stuck for hours due to heavy landslide in Rajgadi-Gangtadi Road. The Uttarkashi-Lambgaun-Kedarnath route was also blocked near Kuteti Devi temple after a heavy landslide. It was reopened in a few hours.
  
  Heavy rain also disrupted the yatra to Yamunotri shrine. District disaster management officer Devendra Patwal said, “We have asked pilgrims to stay in safe points when it rains and then proceed further.”
