BATHINDA: Electricity consumers belonging to scheduled castes and backward class (SC/BC) families are crying hoarse over inflated  .

 The families rue that the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has decided to stop the facility of 200 free units of power every month if the consumption of any consumer crosses 3,000 units in a year.
 
 Punjab   (PKMU), a labour organization, has claimed that over 10,000 consumers have got inflated bills.
 
 Earlier, they were getting bills of Rs 1,000-2,000, but now many people are getting bimonthly bill of nearly Rs 30,000, the union has claimed.
 
 There are over 90,000 consumers who have been affected since facility of 200 free units has been stopped. The SC/BC families have raised the matter before chief minister  , who is learnt to have directed the PSPCL authorities to set right the issue. 
 
 It is learnt that the PSPCL authorities stopped the free facility of 200 units per month to SC/BC families upon consumption exceeding 3,000 units per year from November 2017, but while preparing the bills, the stopping of free power facility was counted from April 2017 and the burden of extra bills of seven months were put on consumers.
 
 The PSPCL authorities admit the inflated bills were issued in the recent past due to some technical error and on Thursday letters were dispatched to field officers in all the distribution circles of the state to check the bills of SC/BC families who complain of inflated bills and set it right.
 
 The authorities however claimed that decision to curtail free power facility has been taken as per the directions of Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission about tariff orders.
 
 SC/BC families led by PKMU general secretary Lachman Sewewala on Friday said that thousands of consumers this time got highly inflated bills which are even up to Rs 30,000 for two months. “The families are not in a position to pay these bills. We have raised the matter to higher echelons and have even approached the chief minister”. He said, “We will launch a protest if the inflated bills are not cancelled and free power facility is not resumed.” 
 
 PSPCL chief engineer (commercial) Arun Kumar Gupta said, “The free power facility was stopped from November 2017, but due to some technical error it was presumed to have been stopped from April 2017 and consumers got inflated bills. The letters have been dispatched to field officers to set right the anomaly.”
 
 PSPCL director (distribution) N   too confirmed the technical error while preparing bills. He said these bills would be corrected in a couple of days as field officers have been directed to issue certificates about the bills.
 
 
