PATNA: The  , commonly known as  , has launched the second leg of 'Adopt an Animal' scheme to pave way for animal lovers to go an extra mile for  . 

 Under the scheme, those who want to become animal parents can take their pick from birds and animals in enclosures and pay for their food and maintenance for six months to five years by following certain criteria set by the zoo authorities. The scheme was first introduced in Patna zoo in 2012 and 17 animals had been adopted by animal lovers and companies or private firms.
 
 Sources at the Patna zoo said the adoption of a white tiger and several other animals would expire within few a months.
 
 K.K  , range officer at Patna zoo, said funds generated through this scheme would be used by the zoo authorities for buying food and medicines for the adopted animals.
 
 "The people adopting animals will get additional perks, which include having their names displayed on the enclosure, adoption certificates as well as free entry to the zoo for an entire year along with several other facilities," he said.
 
 The range officer said the adopters would also get invitations for zoo orientation programme and a free copy of zoo booklet. "Adopters can film or photograph the animals and celebrate various engagements on the zoo campus, with access to its guesthouse," said Himanshu.
 
 The scheme will cover all animals in the zoo, but the authorities are vouching for large animals like tigers, lions, hippopotamus and elephants in the scheme, as they require maximum expenditure. The animal adoption fees can range from Rs2.25 lakh per annum for elephant to Rs1.80 lakh for giraffe. The adoption charge for some other animals include Rs1 lakh for rhinoceros, hippopotamus, lion and tiger, Rs75,000 for sloth bear, Himalayan bear, otter, zebra and panther. Different species in cat family, including jungle cat, golden cat and leopard can be adopted for a year by paying Rs35,000.
 
 According to the official, the individual can adopt animals either for six months or one year but companies and private firms would have to adopt at least for one year to five years. The mode of payment would be via cheque or draft.
 
 
