Nagpur: On the wintry Sunday morning on Jan 7, sixty people gathered at Shankar Nagar garden to take a leap of faith at Dialogues Unveil 1.0. The idea was to pair up with an unknown person and strike a conversation with him or her. The results was happy engaging chatter as the pairs selected spaces to sit and chat in the park decorated with kites for the event. Organized by Nagpur chapter of Good Will Tribe, the event had participants in the age range of 17 to 50 years. “We took the idea of a blind date to bring together people from different walks of life together,” says Mandar Pandhare, who heads Good Will Tribe’s Nagpur chapter. “This was an attempt to bring back one on one conversations that have gone missing in this era of technology,” he said. Those wanting to participate were asked to fill an online form and answer six questions given there. “These questions were like- have you ever taken a leap of faith? How quickly can you trust a person? What are you currently doing in life? What’s on your bucket list,” explains Mandar. One hundred twenty applications were received, of which 60 were picked. “We paired people who were either totally opposite in terms of vocation and hobbies or had some similarity. The unique thing was we did not reveal the identity of the people who were interacting with each other,” says Mandar. Each pair was given around 30 minutes to hold conversation and after that they had to individually write down their experience with the person they had been paired with. “These postcards will be posted to each participant,” says Pandhare. “By keeping the identity of each participant a secret, we made it possible for them to go beyond the physical judgment stage to discover the person behind the persona,” says Mandar. Souvenirs were handed over to each participant after the event that ended with a jamming session under the huge banyan tree at the garden. “Parks have come to be seen as areas where a lot of shady activities goes on. With this event, we tried to reclaim these public spaces as wonderful meeting grounds to start fresh conversations,” Pandhare says. Terming her participation as time well spent, BA-II year student Aishwarya Menon says, “Blindfolded events are great as they allow you to be yourself. Here there was an element of surprise, a bit of curiosity and the comfort of anonymity. Now, I am eagerly waiting to receive the postcard that my partner will send to know how he felt about it.”