Four years after her last daily soap 'Sanskaar — Dharohar Apnon Ki',   is back to the grind with a full-fledged role. She has joined the cast of 'Kasam Tere Pyar Ki', which went in for a time leap recently, paving the way for the reincarnation of the lead couple (  and  ). 

 The actress plays the antagonist on the show. Shamin admits that she was hesitant to turn negative, initially. She shares, “Since I wasn’t seen on TV, I lost connect with a lot of people in the industry. I was offered a few shows, but I didn’t find the roles interesting. The wait seemed endless and I was desperate to make a comeback. This show came to me at the right time. I was scared about getting typecast, but I viewed it as an opportunity to show a different side of me as an actor.” 
 
 Shamin has undergone physical transformation before returning to TV. She lost oodles of weight and has become more fitness conscious. She says, “I had put on weight because of medical issues and that made me look older. Also, I wanted to break away from the mould of the sweet and chubby bahu for a more hot and bold image. However, that doesn’t mean that I am comfortable flaunting my body on screen, at least not on TV, because viewers are quite judgmental.”
 
 Looking back, Shamin’s career hit a roadblock after her movie — she took a break from TV to pursue films — failed to make a mark. That apart, she spent a year, in vain, shooting for a show that would have marked her return to daily soaps. The actress says, “I ended up wasting a year preparing and shooting for the show, but the channel it was to air on, didn’t launch. I have approached   (Cine And TV Artists’ Association) for non-payment of dues.”
 
 While her professional life suffered a few setbacks, Shamin’s personal life has been going great guns. She got married to her college sweetheart   in December last year. She says, “I haven’t faced any prejudice against married actresses on TV, but funnily, people can’t believe that I am married. They get surprised when I tell them that.”
 
