Coimbatore: Three persons including a six-year-old girl were killed in a road accident when two motorcycles collided on the Meenampalayam – Irumbarai Road near Muduthurai Pirivu bus stop at Sirumugai on Sunday night. Four others, including two women, were injured.

 The deceased were identified as P Gokulakannan, 21 of Muduthurai at Meenampalayam village, P Maheshkumar, 31, of Akkarai Sengapalli near Annur and Kanishka, 6, daughter of Jeeva Kumar from Akkarai Sengapalli too. 
 
 The Sirumugai police said, at 8pm, Gokulakannan, who was working in a car workshop at Annur, was going to attend a friend’s wedding in Karamadai along with his two friends P Tamilselvan, 21, a construction worker, and S Tamilvannan, 22, a daily wage labourer, both from Meenampalayam. All the three had consumed liquor and were riding without helmets, the police added.
 
 Around the same time, Maheshkumar, who owned a meat shop, was heading towards Puliyampatti in Erode district to attend a wedding ceremony. On his way, he saw V Chitra, 38 and mother of Kanishka, J Savithri, 34, both from Akkarai Sengapalli waiting for a bus to Puliyampatti to attend the same wedding.
 
 Maheshkumar offered to drop the two women and the girl, a Class I student in a private school in Puliyampatti, at the wedding. “They accepted the offer. The girl sat on the petrol tank,” the police said.
 
 When they reached near Muduthurai Pirivu bus stop, they saw a two-wheeler, rode by Gokulakannan, coming in a rash manner. Suddenly, Gokulakannan lost control of his vehicle and collided into Maheshkumar’s bike.
 
 Maheshkumar and Kanishka were thrown off from the motorcycle and suffered severe head injuries. Gokulakannan too suffered severe head injuries. They were rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) but they were declared as brought dead, the police said.
 
 Tamilselvan suffered fracture in his left leg and Tamilvannan suffered injuries on his hands and face. Chitra and Savithri sustained minor injuries.
 
 On Monday afternoon, the three bodies were handed over to family members after the postmortem. The Sirumugai police have registered a case and further investigation is on.
 
 
