He’s been in the film industry for 32 years, and   is still one of the busiest actors in Sandalwood. Forget his contemporaries, his energy beats even the younger lot of actors. He comes from the first family of   cinema, but he’s not one to throw his stardom around. Instead,   (as Shivarajkumar is fondly called) believes in being friends with his co-stars, regardless of their age. And this he credits to his simple upbringing. In a heart-to-heart with Bangalore Times, the Century Star gives us a peek into his over three-decade-long journey in the film industry, on being a good husband and father, and why he doesn’t want to be called a mentor.

 
 
 Among the ones I have worked with, I think Manvitha (Harish), Vasishta (N Simha) and   show a lot of promise. They all have a lot of potential and are very sincere about their work. Even Rashmika (Mandanna) is very promising and a very charming girl. I saw her perform at an award function and told her that she dances very well.   and I featured in the same TV show, and she’s also very good.
 
 
 
 I can’t teach anyone anything; I can’t be a mentor. I don’t think that I have reached a level where I can be a guru or godfather. I don’t like thinking of myself that way. When I’m on set, I ensure that I make everyone comfortable. They shouldn’t feel intimidated about working with a senior actor. We are all like friends, and I want to be young with them. I don’t want them to make me feel old and look at me like a doddavaru (luminary). And that depends on how I interact with them, or my body language and small things, like my walking pace. When I’m a certain way, they reciprocate. People think this is a great quality, but it’s about how I was raised. I’m not a mentor at all. Each actor has his/her own style; all I do is provide a little support.
 
 
 
 Yes. I was brought up in a very simple way by my parents. I never went to college by car — I used to go by bus. Just like everyone else, I’ve travelled by bus, train and in rickshaws. Thanks to that, I am comfortable in any setting. I can sleep peacefully anywhere, even in a hut.
 
 
 
 I really don’t know what it is. I can credit it to a lot of things, such as leading a healthy lifestyle, going for a walk every day and not overeating. Just like everyone else, I also feel sad, cry and laugh. I also have to face some problems, but there are always people who motivate me in some way, be it professionally or personally. My wife supports me, as do my brothers, friends, co-stars, the industry and, above all, the media. That’s it. There is no secret. When people tell me I’m energetic and that I look young, I think, ‘Do I still look so young?’ That’s a good feeling and it results in an attitude, which is a positive one. So, when people say this, I get motivated to be that way — young and energetic.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 That’s very hard to pinpoint, but   (2003) is one film that’s very close to my heart. The movie was all about finding one’s roots, and I loved essaying my character, Shankar. We tend to forget our roots. We only go as far as our parents, and, perhaps, their parents. But what about their parents and generations before them? It’s heartening to meet relatives, who have seen my father as a child, and hear their tales. It feels good to hear such things, because we are all searching for our roots. That is what Chigurida Kanasu was about. I have an emotional attachment to the film.
 
 
 
 No, there is nothing like that. It’s just that the scripts that I get now are more developed, and emotions are dealt with differently. For instance, in  , emotions are portrayed in a very different way; my character conveys them with only one line.
 
 
 
 I do discuss scripts with her at times. She is very involved in my career; she does costumes for some of my films as well. Now, she is a co-producer with my daughter, Niveditha, under our home banner. It was Niveditha’s choice to start off with a TV series, Manasa Sarovara. Next, they are going to do a woman-oriented film. The scripting is on and the title is yet to be decided. My wife will produce the film, while Niveditha will assist her. Niveditha is still learning, so we want to ease her into production, but she will be in charge, despite Geetha being the producer. Niveditha is thinking about producing a web series as well and is developing 2-3 stories.
 
 
 
 Not with my blessings. She’s chosen this path and I am just supporting her. Blessings are from above (points to a portrait of his father, the late matinee idol Dr  ).
 
 
 
 It’s a thrill. I am doing a talk show now and it’s fun, since I get to know my fellow actors better. I get a break for about a week in between my films and other commitments. Before Tagaru released, I had a break of eight days, during which I went on a trip with Geetha, Niveditha and her friend. We went to   and Chennai. It was good fun being by the beach and swimming.
 
 
 
 I have always been very close to both my daughters. I gave them whatever they wanted, because fathers can’t say no to their daughters. The relationship that my brothers and I have with our children is very different from what our father had with us. My father was not only taking care of us, but his siblings’ children as well. Ours was a big family — we were 35 cousins living together in Chennai. In contrast, when I got married and had my own family, it was just the four of us, so I could always be around for my daughters. When they were young, I used to ensure that I had no out-of-town shoots during March-April (exam season). When it was unavoidable, I used to ensure that at the end of the day, I was back home, helping my daughters study. There were times when I was shooting in Mysuru, and I used to shoot through the day and come back to Bengaluru in the evening, only to go back the next day. Spending time with my daughters has always been the most important thing for me.
 
 
 
 We are genuine with each other and we share all our problems. She is a great wife and a great friend. She’s been with me through thick and thin, and has forgiven all my mistakes. It’s not easy to be the spouse of an actor, since it requires a lot of sacrifice. I wouldn’t have made it for 32 years in the film industry without her, which is why I have a lot of respect and regard for her. She even tonsured her head when I was unwell — I cannot forget these things. She’s been my friend, mother and wife; she’s been my everything.
 
 
 
 Be honest, as much as possible. Be true to your wife.
 
