BHUBANESWAR: People from different tribal communities, who have come with a wide range of products from the hinterland, are raking in the moolah at the ongoing   here. 

 Organic products, including cereals, pulses, spices, forest produce, utility items, handlooms and arts and crafts are in huge demand. Not to forget, the tribal delicacies are a big hit with foodies. 
 
 The fair has registered business worth Rs 4.75 lakh till Saturday while the authorities have targeted Rs 7-crore till Friday, the last day of the fair.
 
 "This year's sale has been good and footfall has been better than the previous years. Our products are of a superior quality than what is available in the market. So people buy stuff from us. We have brought farm products like cereals, spices and turmeric worth Rs 3 lakh of which we have already sold goods worth Rs 2 lakh," said Sukanti Hembram, a tribal woman from  . 
 
 People in the city wait for a year to buy products like badis - a dried and preserved food made from black gram - from Keonjhar district, turmeric from   and  , honey, fumigant and tamarind paste from Mayurbhanj, pulses and cereals like black gram, kendula, mustard and cumin seed, cinnamon and a variety of rice from the interior districts. Hygienically dried fishes are also another popular item at the fair. 
 
 "I buy handmade brooms, spices and pickles from the fair every year. These days everything we buy from the market is adulterated while pesticides are used in almost all crops. I believe the products sold in the fair are pure and processed naturally," said Rajashree Mohapatra, a homemaker.
 
 The food court, serving lip-smacking tribal delicacies, was the major attraction. Foodies had their fill of tribal dishes like mudhi-mansa, curries and also a huge variety of cakes and sweets. 
 
 Handicraft items, including wood carving by Kondhs, dhokra metal works by Dongrias, cane and bamboo basketry works by Juang and Bhuyans, tribal paintings by Sauras, wall paintings by Kissans and jewellery made of brass and bell-metals are quite popular among city women. 
 
 However, some people said the influence of modern lifestyle is reflecting on products, lifestyle and culture of tribal people as well . 
 
 "The fair aims to give a glimpse of the unique lifestyle and culture of tribal communitie, but over the years more focus has shifted to selling and buying of products instead of keeping intact their distinctiveness," said Manas Rath, a resident of Ashok Nagar. 
 
 
