PALAKKAD: In a unanimous resolution, the district development council (DDC) at a meeting here on Saturday urged the state government to get the CBI to inquire into the alleged illegal removal of organs of a brain dead youth in an accident at a private medical college at Salem in   to meet the cost of treatment.

 
 Moving the resolution, Chittur MLA K Krishnankutty said, “It is a very serious issue as earlier also there were incidents of organs of patients died in accidentsn Tamil Nadu being removed without the knowledge of the relatives. In the case of Manikhandan
 
 (22), son of Pechimuthu of Nellimudu, Meenakshipuram, Chittur, who died in an accident at Salem the relatives alleged that the hospital authorities removed the organs without their consent.
 
 “He was admitted to Vainayaka Mission Medical College, Salem, on May 18. On May 20, the doctors declared him brain dead. The hospital authorities asked his relatives to pay Rs 2.5 lakh as medical bill. Since the poor family had no money to pay, they expressed their inability to pay the bill. Then the hospital authorities got some papers signed by Manoj, brother of Manikhandan.
 
 They told him that if he signs the papers any medical bill need not be paid. The body was released only on May
 
 21. The hospital authorities also told the relatives that they have conducted the postmortem of the body but did not hand over its report,” Krishnankutty said.
 
 He said he contacted chief minister   on the matter who wrote a letter to his Tamil Nadu counterpart Edappadi Palaniswamy requesting an inquiry into the incident.
 
 Krishnankutty said in a similar incident involving a tribal youth Manikhandan, who had been admitted in a critical condition in Coimbatore Medical College, was approached by some people offering Rs 4 lakh for donating organs. But this was stopped by the intervention of   district collector K Suresh Babu through his Coimbatore counterpart.
 
 Presiding over the DDC meeting, the district collector said he had “contacted the Coimbatore collector and requested him to send the medical report in both the cases. The state government has also been informed of the incidents.
 
 Meanwhile, Kerala State Human Rights Commission has registered a case on the alleged removal of organs from the deceased Manikhandan.
 
 Commission member   has sought a detailed report from Palakkad district collector on the matter and the case is posted for hearing on July 11.
 
 
