JOHANNESBURG: Test and One-day cricket done with, India and South Africa now gear up to play three T20 Internationals at Johannesburg, Centurion and Cape Town over the next one week, with the first of the three scheduled at the Wanderers on Sunday.

 
 
 
 
 Given the pressures of Test match cricket, one that was contested finely between the two teams in the month of January, followed by the One-dayers that revolved around both teams talking about their 2019 ICC World Cup campaigns, the two T20s can be expected to remain a relatively stress-free contest. Both teams are likely to use the opportunity to test new players.
 
 In that, India will have the 31-year-old left-hander   returning to the squad after he last played a T20 International for India exactly a year ago against England, in February 2017.
 
 Raina, a veteran of 223 One-day Internationals, last played a 50-over game back in Oct 2015 and has since struggled to get back into the team because of both form and fitness issues.
 
 However, riding on a recent string of scores in the Vijay Hazare Trophy back home, and having spent a year working on his fitness, the Uttar Pradesh cricketer is back in the reckoning and can be expected to play the first T20 against South Africa.
 
 In fact, given India’s middle-order worries in the 50-over format, Raina’s T20 comeback will only be a curtain raiser to what can be a longer stint with Team India as processes begin to fall in place to established a stronger lineup.
 
 The Wanderers track for the T20 looks a belter and if the ‘Pink Day’ batting on part of South Africans  , David Miller and Heinrich Klaasen was any indication, Sunday’s game can be expected to remain a firecracker. India will consider dropping Kuldeep Yadav only if he’s not match-fit after a long One-day series. That aside, with Raina back in the scheme of things, the rest of the line-up will pick itself.
 
 Where South Africa are concerned, expect the JP Duminy-led side to ring in a host of changes. Zambia-born Carl Junior Dala and 31-year-old Christiaan Jonker join the inexperienced opening pair of Jon Jon Smuts and Reeza Hendricks, with South Africa bringing in wholesale changes after a poor performance in the One-dayers.
 
 One-day captain Aiden Markram, who had to deal with the unwanted responsibility in the absence of some senior cricketers, admitted the hosts had used the ODI series to execute their rotation policy. However, before the sixth ODI, coach Ottis Gibson had mentioned that South Africa would take a hard look at their own poor performances in the One-day series.
 
 
