LUCKNOW: Four masked and   at   in   in   on Friday.

 Vipin Rastogi, a resident of Triveninagar owns Kishore Jewellers opposite a general store in Sector-K of Aliganj.
 
 Around 3pm on Friday, Rastogi left for lunch at home. He told his domestic help Vishal Soni to be at the counter till he returned. Soni was cleaning the table inside the shop when three miscreants, all with their faces covered, entered the shop and aimed a pistol at Soni. The fourth stood guard on the bike outside the shop.
 
 Inside the shop, one of the accused pushed Soni and asked him to sit on the ground. Another snapped a wire connected to the CCTV camera installed inside the shop.
 
 They looted six gold necklaces, six earrings and some silver ornaments from the shop and put it inside a polythene bag they were carrying with them, said the police. The total cost of the jewellery looted was Rs 16 lakh.
 
 Before leaving, they thrashed Soni with the butt of the gun and grabbed him by his collar to drag him out. They hit him against an electric pole in front of commuters and fled.
 
 Soni informed his owner Rastogi who then informed the police.
 
 ASP (Aliganj) Meenakshi Katyayan was the first to reach the crime scene followed by IG (Lucknow range) and the SSP.
 
 Katyayan said Soni was admitted to a hospital and his statement taken. She also said that the CCTV installed in the shop was dysfunctional for a fortnight.
 
 The needle of suspicion has turned to two previous employees of the jewellery shop. “It appears that one of the accused as described by Soni is the same as the one involved in a theft in Mahanagar on December 1,” said Katyayan.
 
 CCTV footage accessed by TOI from an SBI branch 100 meters from the shop revealed that a masked man in a red jacket is running with a bag and joins two masked miscreants on a bike to flee. The fourth man was not seen in the footage. Police have registered a case of loot.
 
 Shivbhajan Maurya, a tea-seller near the shop, said, “It was reminiscent of a south Indian film where goons hit people. They thrashed Soni hard. I was in a state of shock. They were so fast that I could barely understand what is happening.”
 
 
 
 
