Vadodara: The Revival Group may have extended an olive branch to the former cricketers from its rival Royal Group in the Baroda Cricket Association. But the move hasn’t gone down well with both groups.  A section of the Revival Group, led by Chirayu Amin is upset as about nine ex-cricketers from the Royal Group led by Samarjitsinh Gaekwad are being considered for various posts in the association.  The cricket improvement committee (CIC) that met some days ago has proposed names of these ex-cricketers to the managing committee that will take the call soon. The CIC has suggested names of former cricketers Connor Williams and Satyajit Parab for the Ranji selection committee. The duo, if appointed, will replace two current members of the selection committee. Some of the current junior cricket coaches too will be replaced.  “The former cricketers, who stood by the Revival Group, are feeling betrayed. What is the need to suddenly remove current committee members and coaches to accommodate members of the Royal Group? If it was being done for improving cricketing quality then the current coaches and members should have been consulted and taken in confidence first,” said a BCA official.  Sources in BCA said that Ranji selector Vikram Hazare may be moved out of the selection committee and he is very upset about it. Hazare was appointed as Ranji selector eight months ago but he may be replaced even before completes his one year term. Hazare was offered a post in anti-corruption body but he refused. Another BCA official said that the move to accommodate former cricketers from the rival group may be aimed at weakening the Royal Group.  The Gaekwad camp, especially the non-cricketers, are worried as they feel that their support base may erode but they won’t be able to stop cricketers who are being offered lucrative posts. A meeting of some supporters of Royal Group was called at a former office-bearer’s place on Tuesday to discuss the issue. Former pitch curator, Dashrath Pardesi, who had filed a case against the BCA for non-payment of his salary, too settled the matter on Tuesday by accepting half payment and agreeing to pull back the case. 