Ludhiana: In the previous house, there were 36 fresh faces out of total 75 councillors. However, this time, expect more than 70 freshers in the MC House. Unlike previous elections, this year, the political parties have given chance to more freshers. This time, the number of female candidates has also increased by 50%. Out of 95 councillors, 47 will be women. Most of the female councillors are new to the MC house. However, let’s wait and watch if they will work at their will or if their husbands or male members will run the house.

 Also, the number of wards has also increased from 75 to 95. Therefore, 20 fresh candidates were included in the list automatically.
 
 The fresh face includes Divya from ward number 1. Also, a daughter of Vijay Danav, a dalit leader, Divya is among one of the youngest councillors this time.
 
 Similarly from ward number 46, Harkarandeep Singh Vaid, son of MLA Kuldeep Vaid, Parminder Lapran from ward number 48 are some of the new faces the residents will get to meet. Parminder is son of Gurdev Singh Lapran, district president Congress (rural). Meanwhile, Rashi Aggarwal from ward number 81 is the daughter-in-law of senior Congress leader Hemraj Aggarwal, who had contested the MLA election as an independent candidate. However, he was defeated and rejoined Congress amidst high drama.
 
 Several other fresh faces include Gurmail Singh from ward number 2, Pallavi Vinayak from ward number 3, Sukhdev Bawa from ward number 4, Chaudhary Yashpal from ward number 8, Balwinder Kaur from ward number 11, Naresh Uppal from ward number 12, Mandeep Kaur from ward number 13, Umesh Sharma from ward number 16, Navneet Ghayal from ward number 20, Jaspal Singh, from ward number 30, Prabhjot Kaur from ward number 22, Sarabjit Kaur ward number 37, Arjun Singh Cheema from ward number 40, Reet Kaur from ward number 43, Priya Kaira from ward number 47, Surinder Kaur Manna from ward number 54, Manju Aggarwal from ward number 57, Shelly Malhotra from ward number 61, Maninder Kaur Ghumman from ward number 77, Annie Sikka from ward number 79, Surinder Atwal from ward number 84, Gagandeep Bhalla from ward number 82 and Loveleen Kaur Toor from ward number 93.
 
 
