CHANDIGARH: In an order to resolve a personal dispute through ‘intervention of God’, the Punjab and Haryana high court has allowed two parties to visit a   to swear oath before Guru Garanth Sahib so that the property dispute between them can be settled.

 While allowing the appellant and the respondent to visit   on Monday at 8 pm to resolve dispute, Justice Ajay Tewari of the HC has also appointed a woman lawyer as local commissioner. “She as been requested to be present at the gurdwara on the fixed date and time, videograph the proceedings and give a report whether the parties have taken the oath before the Guru Sahib or not,” stated Justice Tewari.
 
 The local commissioner has also been asked to submit her report on the issue before the HC on May 9, when the matter will be heard by the HC again. The issue in this case primarily relates to the agreement to the sale of property.
 
 Kashmir Singh of Amritsar has claimed that he had paid Rs 4,30,000 to Narinder Pal Singh of the total consideration of Rs 4,60,000. However, Narinder has been claiming that the agreement to sell was a forged document and no consideration had ever been given in this respect.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing on April 19 for hearing, counsel for both parties informed the HC that since the parties to the dispute are relatives, an opportunity may be given to see if the same can be settled mutually. On this, the HC adjourned the case for May 3 for further hearing. During the hearing of the case on May 3, son of Kashmir and respondent Narinder Pal Singh were present in the court.
 
 HC was informed that the dispute has been settled and both the parties has been agreed that if the respondents take an oath before the Guru Sahib that they have not received any money, the appellant shall withdraw his appeal. If on the other hand respondents do not take oath before the Guru Sahib that they had not received money the appeal shall be allowed, HC was informed.
 
 On this HC allowed them to visit the gurdwara to settle the case appointing a woman lawyer Amanpreet Kaur as local commissioner to prepare a report of the entire process by videography of the entire proceedings and submit a report to the HC on May 9.
 
 
