NEW DELHI: The family of the 17-year-old girl who committed suicide in   village near Rohini on Friday rued not having left their house after threats from the youth who was stalking the daughter. 

 The   student’s parents said on Saturday that had they done so, perhaps the girl would still be alive today. Though they had learnt of their daughter’s troubles a few days ago, they were reluctant to go to the cops fearing further harassment.
 
 
  
 
 According to the girl’s father, the family found out about the girl’s ordeal when she stopped eating and started keeping to herself. “After I spoke to my daughter, I approached the father of  , who was stalking her, and requested him to prevail upon his son to desist from such behaviour,” the father told TOI as he carried out the last rites for his daughter at a crematorium on Saturday. “Instead, they threatened me for standing up to them.”
 
 The distraught man added, “The youth’s relatives slapped us and threw us out of the house. They said it was we who should keep our daughter under control. They then asked our landlord, who is a kin of Mayank, to evict us from the house where we are living on rent.”
 
 The past week has been traumatic for the girl’s family, living as they were under the threat of the influential members of the youth’s family. The mother tried to approach the cops and confided in a relative, but was dissuaded by the neighbours who felt that it would do them no good because the accused’s father yielded clout in the village. When they also argued that informing the police station about the matter would only tarnish the girl’s image, the parents agreed not to take such a step.
 
 The   the girl was under can be gauged from her suicide note, in which she addressed her parents, “You are being told to vacate the room. I am leaving, so you don’t have to.”
 
 The whole incident unfolded in just a week, when the girl stopped leaving her house to avoid being hounded by the accused and his friends. The men congregated even at her school and followed her home, making lewd comments on the way.
 
 According to the family, the teenager aimed to join the police service. The youngest among her siblings, she had starting going for jogs to boost her stamina for the physical tests she found were mandatory when appearing for the police examination. She was planning to sit for the papers after passing Class XII. 
 
 The victim’s brother alleged that the accused had misled his sister by claiming to be a physical education trainer who could help her in her efforts. He started going out with her on her morning runs. 
 
 Police officers said that Mayank, who is missing from Bakhtawarpur, was employed in a private firm and his father was a farmer in the village. The cops have detained some of the accused’s friends for questioning. Mayank’s phone number has been put under technical surveillance to track his whereabouts, while police teams are out searching for him at probable hideouts.
 
 
