It is more than six months since 18 MLAs loyal to T T V   were disqualified by an order of Tamil Nadu assembly speaker, and exactly two months since the   reserved its order on the most-awaited political case in the state. The verdict could be out anytime soon.

 Opposition leader M K Stalin’s assertion that the verdict would be out within a week and that it would usher in a big political upheaval underscores the importance of the case.
 
 The 18 assembly constituencies in question have gone unrepresented in at least three assembly sessions, including last week’s budget session. On its part, the high court refrained from staying the MLAs’  , but stopped the Election Commission of India (EC) from going ahead with bypoll preparations. It is a lose-lose situation for both the legislators and their constituencies. TOI here attempts to present the scenarios that could arise out of different verdict possibilities in the case.
 
 One: If the first bench of Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice M Sundar upholds the disqualification, then all attention will turn to EC for byelection dates, and then to the DMK, which, along with its allies, has 98 MLAs in the 234-member assembly. 
 
 Of the remaining MLAs, 18 have been disqualified, three are independents who won on ‘two leaves’ symbol of the AIADMK and one is T T V Dhinakaran who won the RK Nagar seat. Of course, there is a nominated member. This leaves the ruling party with an effective strength of a mere 113 MLAs. Every MLA elected on AIADMK’s ‘two leaves’ symbol is bound by the party’s whip in the event of confidence motion, and can defy it by only risking disqualification.
 
 Nevertheless, a DMK win in any number of these 18 seats will bring it tantalisingly close to the halfway mark. The stand of the three independent MLAs and some of the Congress members too will get crucial. 
 
 Two: If the disqualification of the 18 MLAs is quashed by the high court, it will set alarm bells ringing in political circles. Their return to the assembly will leave the Edappadi K Palaniswami dispensation all the more shaky. If the 18 stick together and remain committed against the Palaniswami government, if not regime change, at least a change of chief minister would be imminent. 
 
 Of course, again, the role of the three independents, plus the stand of the splinter group, if any, in Congress, besides a few from the 18 MLAs themselves, would be crucial for the survival or fall of the government.
 
 Three: If the two judges fail to arrive at a consensus, and end up writing a split verdict, then the case will go to a third judge. Such a scenario will give the   government some more time to maintain status quo.
 
 Such political boxing is certainly unlikely to end at high court level, as lawyers from both sides are said to be ready with appeals to rush to the Supreme Court. The final whistle on the game has to be blown by the Supreme Court, which has taken swift decisions in many such cases.
 
 Politically, however, the crisis will begin only after the final verdict by the apex court. With just 19 short of majority, the DMK might try to take a shot at power, or the Centre may choose to impose governor’s rule to avoid horse-trading and undemocratic bids to ascend to or remain in power. Or, considering the survival capabilities of EPS, the government might weather the storm and survive after all. 
 
 The 18 MLAs were disqualified by the Tamil Nadu assembly speaker on September 18, 2017, on the ground that their meeting with the state governor and submission of a representation for change of chief minister amounted to anti-party activity and defiance of whip.
 
 
