CHANDIGARH: In a freakish discovery of one of the rarest owl species of  , a fledgling mottled wood owl was rescued by international golfer   from the groves meandering between the second and 16th holes of the Chandigarh Golf Club. The owl had fallen from its nest in a tree hollow or from a perch nearby, possibly having suffered displacement due to a storm or heavy downpour. 

 
 The owl was unable to fly and was sitting tight on the ground when discovered by the golfer's caddie.
 
 While the Tricity's strong birding community, which is forever on the prowl for a new bird, had missed this big catch, it was left to a golfer to unearth the owl's existence in the region. That said, the addition of this rare record takes the checklist of avian species found in the Inter-State Capital Region (ISCR) or an area falling within a 50-km radius from Chandigarh to 429. It also elevates the number of owl/owlet species found in the ISCR to double figures, the mottled wood owl ( Strix ocellata) being the 10th of these crepuscular species that hunt from dusk to dawn. "I had no idea it was such a rare bird. I took it to the SPCA, Sector 38 West, but felt that the conditions for bird health there were not good at all. So, I took the owl home and nursed it like some other garden birds we rescued in past years," Sujjan told TOI. 
 
 It was the owl's good fortune that it was discovered by Sujjan. Had the owl fallen into wrong hands, the bird could have been killed, mistreated or sold for tantrik rituals and blood sacrifices. After Sujjan brought the owl home to his sprawling Sector 5 bungalow, the traumatised bird took a natural fancy to Sujjan's mother, Kanwal Sukhinder Singh. 
 
 She hails from a family renowned for its ancestral passions of falconry, hawking and birds of prey. Her late 'chacha (paternal uncle)', Kanwar Mahinder Singh Bedi, was a renowned hawking enthusiast and falconer of his times, upon whose recommendation in 1989 the   declared the Northern Goshawk as the state bird. The Goshawk was the pre-eminent bird of prey adopted as a symbol of noble prestige and trained and deployed for hunting by three Sikh Gurus: Hargobind, Tegh Bahadur and  . 
 
 The owl takes boneless chicken morsels from her, snuggles against her shoulder like a baby and dozes off, and periodically communicates with her with an endearing, mysterious 'tic-tic-tic' call. The owl perches on a chair in the evenings spent in the bungalow lawns, much to the consternation of jungle babblers. "I would like to rehabilitate this owl in the wilderness. If we can find the nest, the owl can be replaced there. I only fear the parents may reject the offspring since it has been through human hands. We are consulting top experts on its feed, which has been recommended as mice, grasshoppers etc so that it gets the roughage necessary for proper and natural digestion etc," Kanwal S. Singh told TOI.
 
 Birds not particular to a region are infrequently discovered outside their known ranges due to a variety of reasons, such as vagrancy, migration arising from climate change or habitat suitability or simply blown off their paths by severe weather disturbances. However, the owl found at the golf club is evidence of a nesting pair and not a classic vagrant or mistaken wanderer. This species is otherwise endemic to the Indian sub-continent, including marginally to Pakistan. Though widely distributed through Central and peninsular India, the closest records of the mottled wood owl to Chandigarh are from Bharatpur (Rajasthan) in 1984 by Raghupatty Kannan and   in 1990 by Louis Warren.
 
 
