Indore: A three-member operating team of Kings XI Punjab and two International Management Group (IMG) officials visited the city and conducted a recce of the Holkar stadium on Tuesday.

 The inspection started at 10:30 am, it was followed by a pre-planning discussion that lasted for two hours. All the office bearers of Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association (MPCA) attended the meeting.
 
 Keeping the cleanliness drive in view, during the discussion, MPCA proposed focusing on the cleanliness during the matches.
 
 "We’ve suggested keeping the focus on cleanliness during the matches. Also, unlike last year, this time the announcement for the match has been done well in time. So we've also recommended them to start with the conversation," said MPCA CEO Rohit Pandit while speaking about the meeting.
 
 Now that the schedule and venue for the IPL 2018 are out and three matches are scheduled at the Indore's Holkar stadium, the Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association (MPCA) has already started with the preparations.
 
 "Our preparations are almost done. We don't have to do anything major. There won't be infrastructural changes, things will be in a similar way as that of last year," said MPCA secretary Milind Kanmadikar.
 
 The MPCA also suggested some minor changes in the seating arrangement, which was analysed from last year's matches, added Pandit.
 
 "It was a touch base meeting as it's an initial phase and everything is in the planning stage," said Kings XI Punjab cricket operations head Anant Sarkaria.
 
 The operational team of Kings XI Punjab is expected to come again in the first week of March as they will play their third match in Indore on April 15.
 
 The IMG official, Catherine Simpson, who conducted the recce said, "We're very happy to come back to Indore."
 
 Indore: The operating team of Kings XI Punjab and a team of International Management Group (IMG) visited the city and conducted a recce of the Holkar Stadium ground on Tuesday.
 
 The recce started at 10:30 am, which was followed by a pre-planning discussion that lasted for two hours. Apart from all the office bearers of the MPCA, three members of the operational team of Kings XI Punjab, and two members of IMG were present for the meeting.
 
 Keeping the cleanliness drive in cognizance, during the discussion, MPCA proposed focussing on the cleanliness bit during the matches.
 
 "We’ve suggested keeping the focus on the cleanliness during the matches. Also, unlike last year, this time the announcement is done well in time. So we've also recommended them to start with the conversations," said CEO, MPCA, Rohit Pandit, speaking about the meeting.
 
 Now that the schedule and venue for the IPL 2018 are out and three matches are scheduled at the Indore's Holkar stadium, the Madhya Pradesh Cricket Association(MPCA) have already started with the preparations.
 
 "Our preparations are almost done. We don't have to do anything major. There won't be infrastructural changes, things will be in a similar way as that of last year," said secretary, MPCA, Milind Kanmadikar.
 
 The MPCA also suggested some minor changes in the seating arrangement which was analyzed from last year's matches, added Pandit.
 
 "It was a touch base meeting as it's an initial phase and everything is in the planning stage," said Kings XI Punjab's head of cricket operations, Anant Sarkaria.
 
 The operational team of Kings XI Punjab is expected to come again in the first week of March as they will play their third match in Indore on April 15.
 
 The IMG official, Catherine Simpson who conducted the recce said, "We're very happy to be coming back to Indore."
 
 
