PATNA: Former finance minister  , who had been regularly attacking the Narendra Modi government over the past couple of years, has quit the party, while fellow dissident   also seems to be headed for an exit. 

 Yashwant, who held important portfolios of finance and external affairs in the previous NDA government, accused   of undermining institutions of democracy as he announced his resignation from the party on Saturday, formally severing a relationship which had long soured because of his relentless jibes against the leadership and the latter’s refusal to engage with him.
 
 “Four years back I had taken ‘sanyas’ (retirement) from electoral politics. Today, I am taking ‘sanyas’ from all sorts of party politics. I am also announcing from this platform that today I am snapping all ties with the BJP,”   said while addressing a meeting of the recently launched ‘Rashtra Manch’ (national forum) at the S K Memorial Hall.
 
 The meeting was also addressed by leaders from Congress, RJD, Trinamool Congress, Rashtriya Lok Dal, Samajwadi Party and Aam Aadmi Party. Shatrughan Sinha member of Lok Sabha from Patna Saheb, and JD(U) rebel and former   speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary were also present.
 
 Citing reasons behind quitting BJP, Sinha accused the saffron party of “deliberately and systematically working to undermine the institutions of democracy”.
 
 Hours after he announced his resignation, actor-politician Shatrughan dared the ruling party to take action against him if it wants to, while making it clear he won't resign from its membership on his own.
 
 “I heard that the party is contemplating to take action against me since the Bihar assembly polls but they did not take action. Are they so helpless that they will look for a muhurat to expel (me),” the Patna Saheb MP said.
 
 Sinha, whose equations with BJP have fluctuated since 2005 when the party did not project him as the CM candidate for Bihar, has been aiming put-downs, in his inimitable style, at PM Narendra Modi, while publicly supporting party’s rivals like RJD and AAP.
 
 Yashwant, whose son Jayant Sinha is a Union minister, often teamed up with other rebels like Arun Shourie and Shatrughan as well as lately with political opponents of BJP to take on the Modi government. The ties appeared to have reached the point of no return after he wrote an open letter predicting that the Indian economy was set for a hard landing in the wake of demonetisation and GST. Recently he wrote an open letter to BJP MPs asking them to challenge the leadership before the next elections so that corrective measures could be taken to "save the party." 
 
 Yashwant Sinha, who served as finance minister in Chandrashekhar government, joined BJP before the 1995 Bihar elections and was immediately made the leader of the opposition in state assembly after winning his first assembly election from Ranchi (now in Jharkhand). 
 
 On Saturday, he vowed not to join any political party in future. “Jab kad hai, to pad ki kya Jaroorat (what is the need of a post, when you have your own stature),” he said. 
 
 Without taking name of any BJP leader, Sinha also vowed to raze all those forces to the ground with the help of people’s power, who were engaged in undermining the institutions of democracy like Parliament, judiciary, Election Commission and the Press. 
 
 “From today, my every day and every moment will be dedicated on how to revive and how to save democracy in this great country,” he said and added, “If economic condition of a country becomes bad, the next government will improve it, if foreign policy of a country goes wrong, the next government will come and improve the ties, but if the institutions of democracy die, it will take very long time to revive them.” 
 
 He accused the Modi government of subverting institutions of democracy. Sinha had floated 'Rashtra Manch' on January 30, which he claimed, was an apolitical forum. 
 
 
