GURUGRAM: It would appear that chief minister  , during his Gurugram visit on Thursday, had decided to play safe on the waste-to-energy treatment plant (WTP) at  , being built by  . At a press conference he refuted environmentalist’s concerns about the plant. A few hours earlier, he had told residents of villages around the WTP that he wasn’t aware of their grievances, and will look into them. 

 Villagers from Bandhwari, Baliyawas, Ullawas, Bandhwari, Ghata, Gwalpahari and Behrampur, who were kept waiting for almost seven hours at the PWD rest house, told TOI when Khattar finally met them, he assured them that the government will mull over relocating the STP elsewhere, because of their health concerns.
 
 “When we met the   and said 10 of our previous representations on the matter had gone unheard, he told us he wasn’t apprised of the situation, adding if the WTP affects people’s health, the government will look at relocation options,” said Manoj Bandhwari, a villager who met Khattar.
 
  They said they had also complained of the fact that the lives of around 50,000 people living nearby had already been harshly affected due to contamination of groundwater from the waste being dumped at the site for years, and the leachate from it. 
 
 Earlier in the day, residents of all seven villages held a mahapanchayat in Bandhwari to decide on their course of action to stop the foundation stone-laying ceremony for the WTP.
 
 Environmentalist and Gwalpahari resident Vaishali Rana Chandra joined the chorus, saying, “There are reports saying once functional, the WTP will generate toxic gases from the burning of unsegregated waste. These will be highly dangerous to the health of generation to come.”
 
 Meanwhile, questions over the correlation between rising cases of cancer in these villages and groundwater contamination, are gaining traction. “Around 100 people have lost their lives to cancer in the last few years. My wife succumbed to cancer in January. It’s all because of the contaminated water,” said Gwalpahari resident Karam Singh Tanwar. Nirmal Singh of Bandhwari said, “It’s due to this polluted water that I lost my brother to kidney cancer. Now they want to pollute our air too.” 
 
 Chief medical officer Dr Asruddin, who had also visited the village on Thursday, however said a direct correlation between groundwater contamination and cancer cases is difficult to prove. “We collected data on cancer patient numbers and deaths. I personally examined some patients. However, it’s not possible to come up with anything conclusive in one visit. We’ve asked villagers to visit Civil Hospital for treatment and to submit records of cancer victims.”
 
 Dr Asruddin added, “We’ll make more visits to find out if the cancer cases is because of groundwater contamination or other factors.”
 
 
