MEERUT: In an implied panegyric of sorts for UP Police’s ongoing encounter spree, newly-appointed state police chief OP Singh quipped and asked   Pal Sharma in a meeting on Saturday if his day went without any gun battle?
 
  “‘Aaj koi encounter to nahi kiya’ (No encounter today?),” Singh asked.
  
  Now extolled as “encounter cop”, Sharma has received accolades from various quarters for his “bravery”.
  
  He was given a chariot ride by local residents after Shamli Police had gunned down two dreaded criminals in two successive encounters in July-August last year.
  
  DGP Singh was in Meerut on Saturday. He held a closed door meeting with top brass of the department in what he dubbed as formal introduction after taking over as the police chief. Although   tops the chart in encounters, with seven criminals being gunned down in the last six months, it was Shamli SP Sharma who stole the show as his introduction went beyond a formal handshake.
  
  The top brass of district police of Meerut zone was all smiles when DGP Singh asked Sharma, ‘Aaj koi encounter to nahi kiya (No encounter today?).’
  
  When asked, the SP Shamli said, “It was all said in a lighter vein. We had started our day with arrest of some suspects involved in cow slaughter. He might have come across the news following which he quipped during the introduction.”
  
  Sharma has received appreciation from chief minister   in the past, who in a poll rally in Saharanpur, claimed that the new law and order in place has stopped “Kairana-like exoduses” with local traders now heaving a sigh of relief. Haryana CM   had also felicitated him at a religious function in Karnal later.
  
  Shamli has seen four dreaded criminals being gunned down and more than 24 receiving bullet injuries in a spate of encounters in the past ten months.
  
 According to official record, as many as 1,142 encounters have taken place between March 20, 2017 and January 31 this year. Roughly half of them took place in  , which has eventually added maximum to the tally of 38 criminals being gunned down ever since the new government came to power.
