The weekend saw another war of words between   and   on Twitter. It all started when Sunil responded to a fan’s tweet, saying he was not doing Kapil’s upcoming comedy show because he hadn't been approached for it. This did not go down well with Kapil, who accused Sunil of lying.   claimed that he had approached Sunil a number of times in the past, but in vain. This led to a series of tweets between the two, which made it evident that things are still not well between them. Sunil and Kapil first had a fallout in ?March 2017, when they fought on a flight. The tiff was so ugly, Sunil walked out of Kapil’s show, which he was a part of back then. Though Kapil tried to make amends, the rift remained. Following their latest spat, BT got in touch with Sunil, who spoke about his current equation with Kapil and their once-strong friendship going kaput. Excerpts...

 
 
 People can think whatever they want to, but that’s not true. As soon as the promos of Kapil’s show went on air, I was flooded with messages asking if I was going to work with him again. I did not respond initially, but later, I felt that my fans and viewers deserve an answer. That’s when I responded saying that I never got a call to be on his show. 
 
 
 
 Kapil is very creative and he can make a comedy out of any situation. He is a good comedian, I am not as good as him. Having said that, when we worked together, we had a good understanding. It’s only after the mid-air fight that I decided to opt out of his show. I have always maintained silence and never spoke about it to anyone. I agree that after that incident, he did send two people from his team to my house and they asked me many times to rejoin his show, but I was not interested that time. My clarification on Twitter was about him not inviting me for his upcoming show and that’s true.
 
 
 
 That’s true, but a lot of time has passed since then. I don’t know what my answer would have been; that’s too hypothetical for now. The fact is, his team did not make an offer. I had walked out then because I didn’t like what happened, but things would probably have been different had he approached me now. I haven’t done anything on television in the past two years, so I am looking for good opportunities. Now that Kapil or his team has not offered me anything, I am in the process of working on a different project.
 
 
 
 I think it's all destiny. Jo babaji karenge theek karenge. We are both doing well in life, and in the future too, we will do well in life. I just wish him well and I may sound like a saint, but I really want his show to do well. 
 
 
 
 I haven’t watched much TV in the last year, but whatever people are doing or trying to do in the comedy genre is very good. It’s not easy to write those scripts and execute them. Kapil is good and that’s why his shows have worked well. I did not want to be a part of that show because I was not in a frame of mind.
 
 
 
 I just want Kapil to look after his health. Now what people conclude of this is up to them. I was his colleague and I think itna bolna toh banta hai.
 
