CHENNAI: Giving two hoots to government guidelines on starting distribution of application forms only five days before results of the Class 12 state board exams are published, most arts and science colleges in Chennai have started their application process as early as the fourth week of April.

 The guidelines say that the admission process can begin only 10 days after the results are out. But colleges conceded that they would start the process for self-financing courses from Wednesday (today). Also, some aided institutions have unofficially started admitting students for self-financing courses, said retired staff and applicants.
 
 
  
 
 Besides issuing forms, colleges blatantly violated guidelines on the cost of application forms, rule of reservation, publishing the rank list and admission to self-financing courses.
 
 
 
  
 
 The state higher education department raised the cap on application fee to Rs 50 per form. However, most colleges were found collecting anywhere between Rs 100 and Rs 300 per form both online and at the counters. Colleges are not allowed to collect any fee for application forms from SC/ST applicants. But they are being denied free forms and there is no such option made available in the website exempting them from paying application fees.
 
 The guidelines, aimed at making the entire admission process transparent, state that only one application with option for various courses should be distributed. But most colleges are forcing students to buy separate application forms for different courses. For instance, a student who wants to apply for BSc Physics and BSc Chemistry at a college has to submit two different forms.
 
 No aided college in the state is allowed to admit students under self-financing course (evening course) unless the aided seats are filled. But across  , none of the aided colleges adhere to this and carry out admissions simultaneously. Consequently, meritorious students end up joining self-financing courses in aided colleges and when they get a regular seat in the same college they have to forego the fees paid for the evening course, said a retired principal of a government-aided college.
 
 Aided colleges run self-financing courses at the same buildings and infrastructure using government funds, so it is unfair to fill seats simultaneously, the principal added. “The government has waived the tuition fees of aided course students and they are expected to pay around Rs 860 as fees. But most colleges collect Rs 6,000 to Rs 7,000 from students in the name of maintenance fee and replacement funds,” he said.
 
 Across top colleges, temporary admission guidance centres are being set up. A visit to some of these centres revealed that admission has ‘unofficially’ begun for self-financing courses and applicants, mostly students who cleared Class 12 last year and were unable to secure seats, were told to pay a token advance. These counters seldom explain the benefits provided to SC/ST candidates when it comes to the admission processes. Responding to this, P Duraisamy, vice-chancellor of  , said an explanation would be sought from violators and the syndicate would decide on the action. 
 
 “There is no scope to prevent violations. The state has been hesitant to introduce single-window counselling, like   and  , which would help more than six lakh students,” said V Eswaran, MDMK member and an activist who rallies for education reforms.
 
 
