For more than seven decades, the who's who of the film world - and lots of wannabes - have been heading to the   in May for the biggest event of the year: the  . Besides photos of Bollywood stars on the red carpet, the Indian press is full of headlines that declare that India is creating a "splash" or "shining" at Cannes.

 
 Social media feeds of some directors and producers also proclaim that their movies are showing at Cannes. The reality is that it's been 24 years since an Indian feature film made it to the festival's 'In Competition' section. Kerala filmmaker Shaji Karun's Swaham, the story of a young widow who loses her son in a stampede, was the last to make the cut in 1994.
 
 So when filmmakers boast of 'showing at Cannes', they're actually talking about the cluster of events held alongside the festival. These include the   Film Market or Marché du Film, one of the world's largest movie marketplaces.
 
 In fact this week, filmmaker   was called out for making misleading claims when he tweeted about a standing ovation for a screening of his forthcoming film, The Tashkent Files at Cannes. Agnihotri's film was screened at the India Pavillion, curated by the information and broadcasting ministry at the Cannes Film Market every year, and not in the official competition line-up. Responding to the comments on social media, Agnihotri said he'd just retweeted links to news reports about his screening, and made no such claims. "How they frame their headlines is their prerogative. We are proud of our film and enthused with the overwhelming response it got. People can criticise whatever they want," he said.
 
 Veteran Cannes visitors point out that the lines between films that are officially selected for the festival and those promoted in the market are often conveniently blurred because of the exclusivity of the festival, which has launched the careers of many prominent filmmakers like   and Steven Soderbergh.
 
 
  
 "It is the most prestigious film festival in the world," says film critic Anupama Chopra. "It occupies a space in the Indian imagination because of its glamour but there isn't a real understanding of what the official section is."
 
 Besides the competition section in which movies compete for the top prize, the Palme d'Or (Golden Palm), there is also Un Certain Regard for films with an "original aim and aesthetic". This year, for example,  's biopic Manto was in Un Certain Regard, while another film, Rohena Gera's Sir, was shortlisted for the sidebar, International Critics' Week.
 
 Film critic Gautaman Bhaskaran recalls seeing newspaper advertisements of films that had supposedly "premiered at Cannes". "It has one of the biggest film markets where you can sell or promote your film. There are several small auditoriums that you can hire to screen your film, but it is not a part of the Cannes film festival unless it is an official selection."
 
 While anyone can screen a film at the official market, it means little in terms of prestige. "There are hundreds of films screened at the Cannes market, so it is not a stamp of quality," Chopra says. More than 12,000 producers, distributors and sales agents, all looking to sell and buy movie rights, are at the market. With such a crowd, it is difficult to stand out though there are exceptions. "People saw and loved The Lunchbox, which was in one of the sidebars," she says. "The sales agents have to see the film and love it." 
 
 François-Xavier Durandy, who subtitles Hindi films in French, cites the example of two short films Asthi and Pournami, which were reportedly selected for Cannes, but were in fact part of the Short Film Corner. "Registering a film at the Short Film Corner, which is basically a market, is not the same feat as being selected at the festival," says Durandy. "Two weeks before the festival, I got a message from the father of a young actor in one of these films expressing hope that his son would win an award. There are no awards at the Short Film Corner, Marché du Film or Directors' Fortnight."
 
 So why doesn't India, which produces a record number of films, make the Cannes cut? While Durandy blames it partly on substandard subtitles, Bhaskaran says that though India has great stories and a storytelling culture, "we don't know how to present these stories to an audience that may or may not be familiar with the Indian milieu and way of life."
 
 Chopra, who was part of the Un Certain Regard jury in 2008, has her own take. "Mainstream films aren't screened because filmmakers don't want to expose the film before its release in India, while independent films are competing against the best in the world," says Chopra. "I'm hoping someone cracks the main competition soon." Till then, it's more about the fashion than the films.
 
 
