KOLKATA: The State Election Commission on Saturday extended by a day the nomination-filing process for the   and stipulated April 23, Monday, as the last day for filing papers. But this may be the easiest of the several decisions it will have to take in the next few days as it tries to find a middle path between contending political parties, a fasting month of Ramzan, the vagaries of the monsoon and the rules stipulating how to conduct Bengal’s rural polls.

 The SEC on Saturday, besides declaring the last day of filing papers, also stipulated the date of scrutiny of nominations (April 25) and the dates for withdrawal of nominations (April 26, 27 and 28). But it held back announcing the date/s of voting, which only highlighted the problems it was struggling with. Officials said the decision might be taken on Monday aft-er another round of consultation with the state government as pressure mounted on it to have a single-day vote, preferably before May 16, instead of the original three-day polling process it announced on March 31.
 
 Trinamool   has already gone on record, saying it wants a single-day vote before the middle of May. But BJP has said it wants a two-day poll process as it feels the SEC does not have a police force large enough to secure all 58,000 of Bengal’s polling booths on a single day.
 
 Besides these opposing political forces, there are three other factors — the fasting month of Ramzan, the monsoon and the rules that govern holding of rural polls in   — that make the SEC’s task a near-mathematical impossibility.
 
 Ramzan starts on May 15 and ends in the middle of June and the Trinamool does not want the election process during this month of fasting. But, by the time Ramzan ends in the middle of June, the monsoon should be in Bengal with its full force.
 
 And, if this was not complicated enough, there is something else that the SEC has to contend with: Bengal’s Panchayat Act, 2003, which stipulates that the first day of voting has to be at least three weeks after the last day of filing nominations. So the first possible day of voting will have to be after May 14 (three weeks after April 23). All this, admit officials, leaves the SEC the tiniest of windows to hold the vote.
 
 There is also the small thing of the original SEC notification, which says the polling process will have to be finished before May 15. This includes publishing of electoral rolls, allotment of symbols, the actual polling process, a possible re-poll in some booths, the date of declaration of results and then the actual handing over of certificates to winning candidates. This, say officials, is a “mathematical impossibility”.
 
 The complication follows the vexed issue of nominations playing itself out in three courts (the Supreme Court and two benches of the  ) over 12 days as wells as the SEC’s flip-flop; it cancelled its own decision after extending the last day for filing nominations by one day.
 
 Trinamool leaders harped on “people’s plight” to support their argument for a one-day poll. “We don’t want to put people in trouble. We don’t want votes either in scorching heat or during monsoon. We also want the election process to be over before Ramzan begins. We prefer a one-day poll and have requested the commission to hold it before May 16,” Trinamool secretary-general Partha Chatterjee said on Saturday after meeting state election commissioner  .
 
 BJP leader Mukul Roy, on the other hand, suggested a two-day poll schedule. “We have told the SEC that Bengal has a history of bloody panchayat polls. The SEC has to requisition forces from outside the state if it wants to hold a one-day poll,” he said.
 
 
