Madurai: The gruelling summer has turned the heat on the residents of Aavin Nagar where every pot of water has become crucial following the dip in water level in borewells. With no piped drinking water connection from the   corporation, the residents have been relying solely on private tanker trucks for water. To add to their discomfiture, even corporation trucks supplying water turn up only occasionally.

 There are more than 300 residential buildings in Aavin Nagar, located between Yagappa Nagar and Gomathipuram. While the residents here have been yearning for water for long, they have been witnessing drinking water leaking from the civic body’s main pipe on Vallalar Street and flooding the road, hardly 150 metres away. Residents say they have reported the wastage of water to the officials concerned on many occasions. Although, the officials tried to set right the issue a couple of times, it had provided only a temporary solution. The water had started leaking again, the residents rued. 
 
 K Amutha, a resident of Aavin Nagar, said that they had been neglected for long when it came to drinking water supply. Though they have been managing without the corporation’s water supply for most of the year, it was difficult to tide over the summer. They had petitioned officials to provide water connection many a time in the past, but to no avail. “At present our water needs are met through private tanker trucks. We shell out a portion of our income for water. It is rarely that tanker trucks from the local body reach out to our area. We do not have underground drainage connection either,” said M Sumathi, another resident of Aavin Nagar. 
 
 Compared to Aavin Nagar, the residents of Anbu Nagar are better placed as they have drinking water connections. However, the residents complain that the water supply is erratic. “We are supposed to receive water on alternative days. But, it is being supplied once in four days or once a week. With the civic body announcing that the water would be supplied once in four days, we are not sure how frequently we will get it,” said M Kaja, a resident of Vallalar Street. 
 
 The residents opine that if the water leaks like the one on Vallalar Street are plugged permanently, the water pressure would be much better. When contacted, an engineering official claimed that they had not come across such a leakage problem yet. However, they would check and resolve the issue. He also promised to address the issue of erratic water supply. 
 
 
