HYDERABAD: An engineer graduate, aspiring to be a constable, was murdered by unknown persons at   in Hayathnagar on Monday. She was hit on the head with a boulder. Police said they would match the victim’s DNA samples, collected from her womb, with a man identified as Mothilal, to whom her marriage was fixed and then cancelled, to ascertain a possible link in the murder.

 Hayathnagar police said N Anusha, 23, a resident of   of   district, hails from the Lambada community. She was undergoing coaching for police constable recruitment test.
 
 On Tuesday, Anusha was supposed to appear for an interview in a private company. So, on Monday night, she reached Hyderabad and went to her sister’s residence at Mithani Colony in Hayathnagar to stay over for the night.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 But on reaching Anusha found her sister’s residence was locked. She went to a neighbour’s house, collected the keys and entered her sister’s residence. She was not carrying a mobile phone. So, with the help of the neighbour, Anusha communicated to her sister about her arrival.
 
 At night, her sister called their neighbour and asked them to inform Anusha that she would reach home late. When the neighbour went to inform Anusha, she found the door of her sister’s house open. When she stepped inside, she saw Anusha lying in a pool of blood. Immediately, she called her sister and informed her.
 
 During investigation, police learnt that four months ago Anusha’s parents decided to get her married to Mothilal. But later they decided to cancel the marriage since there was a dispute between the two families. However, Mothilal allegedly used to harass Anusha and tried to coax her into marrying him.
 
 Though Mothilal claimed ignorance about the murder, police suspect he might be behind it. “The house is divided into three parts. The victim was found murdered in the middle portion. The other two portions were vacant without any occupants,” said assistant commissioner of police (Vanasthalipuram) V Ravinder Reddy.
 
 Police said they were perplexed why Anusha was not carrying a mobile phone, despite owning one. “Investigation is on and various angles are being probed. We suspect someone known to her murdered her,” deputy commissioner of police (LB Nagar) M   told TOI.
 
 
 
 
 On Monday night, family members of a girl, who had married against their wishes, went to the house where she had been living with her husband in Dundigal to convince her to return. There, during an argument, the girl’s husband stabbed her father, who is in a critical condition. Dundigal police said Manisha and   got married three months ago. On Monday, Manisha talked to her parents on phone, trying to convince them to sort out their differences. So, they went to her house in Dundigal. Her parents —Mugnaram Chowdary and Sukibai — were accompanied by her brothers and uncle. However, Manisha’s family tried to convince her to dissolve her marriage. This led to an argument between Ajay and Manisha’s family members.
 
 “When Manisha was being forcefully taken away, Ajay and his family attacked   with a sword. He suffered a deep injury on his face,” said sub-inspector B Suman. A case was registered under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC against Ajay, 2 others.
 
