CHANDIGARH: Expanding the scope of an ongoing petition related to multiple plot allotment scam of   (HUDA), the Punjab and   high court asked authorities on Saturday to include spouse or dependent children of the allotees while verifying multiple allotments.

 “Double allotment means when plots have been allotted to persons more than their entitlement. It includes the person himself/herself, the spouse or dependent children. It is also directed to be verified as to when the plot was allotted, the spouse or their dependent children were allotted plots more than their entitlement and contrary to terms and conditions of the policy (Sic),” ordered Justice   in her detailed orders.
 
 Justice   passed these orders recently while hearing the multiple plot allotment case. The judge also asked Haryana government to verify names mentioned in the application filed by advocate Harmanjit Singh Sethi, about some influential persons against whom no action has been taken by authorities. Sethi is representing some of the accused in this case.
 
 In its application filed on behalf of a senior defence officer, advocate Sethi alleged that HUDA, instead of registering FIRs against all persons against whom allegations have been levelled, was trying to lodge FIR against 54 persons whose status report had double allotments, but not in violation of the policy.
 
 Further, accusing the state of adopting a pick-and-choose policy, Sethi alleged that on the previous dates of hearing on October 11, 2017, and January 18, 2018, HC ordered that FIRs be registered against allottees against whom there were allegations of double allotment or to whom allotments had been made contrary to the policy. However, HUDA has not done so to date, he argued.
 
 Sethi also produced a list of senior IAS and IPS officers of Haryana, including a serving DGP-rank officer, a former DGP, two IAS officers of the rank of additional chief secretaries in Haryana, and several other bureaucrats who have not been booked by HUDA officers, despite the fact that they were beneficiaries of getting plots in contravention of the policy.
 
 Irregularities in allotment of plots surfaced in 2013, when HC ordered a probe in the matter after finding that a large number of defence personnel in Haryana were getting plots in sectors developed by HUDA by submitting forged affidavits. They were entitled to get one plot under defence category at subsidized rates, but most of them managed to get from two to 25 plots by submitting false affidavits and concealing previous allotments.
 
 Around 1,600 FIRs have been filed by the state police in relation to the scam and more than 2,100 persons have been booked and facing charges.
 
 
