KOLKATA: The state government has been pulling out all stops over the last three years but the   ( ) has failed to taste success in the Joint Entrance Examination yet again. Not a single HS student made the cut on the top 10 merit list this year and of the 1,05,081 ranks awarded, they managed to bag just 47%. The rest have been grabbed by students from other boards.

 
 “This will go on and state council students will suffer forever. JEE or other entrance examinations are elimination tests. An engineering admission test is a screening process and not an evaluation exam like Class XII. It requires special training, which is available only in urban pockets. Most CBSE- and ISC-affiliated schools are in cities and tier-I towns. Thus, students from places like Kolkata, Burdwan, Durgapur, Kharagpur and Asansol are likely to succeed. The toppers will always be from the urban areas,” said   teacher  .
 
 Even among students from the top 10 percentile range in WBHSC and other boards, the latter are getting more success in JEE. “Though similar percentage of marks is achieved in Class XII board exams, the two sets of students score differently in competitive exams,” Biswas added. Affordability could be another reason, he added.
 
 A WBHSC official, however, had a different opinion to share. “One should analyze the results as a whole and not only concentrate on the toppers. It is important to understand that many WBHSC students are going to join research-oriented institutes. The situation of job market for engineers is pathetic. So, many students could have opted out of the rat race. They would rather join general degree courses and new subjects where the prospects are bright. Space technology, microbiology, photography and videography are some emerging subjects. I also know several people who would prefer to study management,” he explained.
 
 A school education department official said they would need to evaluate the question pattern of both Higher Secondary and WBJEE. “WBHSC has to analyze if the question pattern is similar to the syllabus which is being taught by them. The requirements of WBJEE or IIT-JEE are different from the curriculum of Class XII. The approach is also separate,” he said. Additional coaching should be provided to students if needed, felt a physics teacher of a governmentrun school.
 
 Education minister Partha Chatterjee praised the students from other boards. “The schools are run in a disciplined manner. Classes are held regularly and attendance is compulsory. Thus, despite fewer schools under their affiliation, other board candidates are performing well. The higher fee also allows them to upgrade infrastructure, which staterun schools had been lacking for the 34 years of Left Front rule. We are taking every step necessary to ensure a better result,” he said.
 
