The current water level in the major dams may indicate that Madurai city would tide over the summer comfortably, but in reality the water problem has started affecting many parts of the city. The residents in various parts of the city are buying water for their everyday needs, as the groundwater level has depleted in many places.

 The old   area comprising 72 wards have pipelines bringing water from the Vaigai dam to households and the streets. When the corporation was expanded in 2010, 28 more panchayat wards were added to it. But, even after nearly eight years, the corporation has still not been able to provide regular water supply to many of these areas, where people are spending more than Rs3,000 a month to purchase water.
 
 Though the Madurai Corporation supplies water through tankers to these areas, they never reach all the population as the huge tankers cannot navigate through many of the narrow streets and they distribute water at specific points only.
 
 Groundwater, though not good for consumption, is the main water source in many places, where people buy drinking water, from tankers for Rs10 a pot or packaged water at Rs35 for a 20-liter bottle. But, when the summer advances, many of the borewells run dry and the people are forced to buy tanker loads of water for all their washing needs. "Almost all the houses in Sundar Nagar, Vandiyur and Yagappa Nagar depend on private tankers for water,’’ said Saravanan of Vandiyur
 
 The private tankers, though expensive, are preferred by the residents to the corporation tankers, as they come to the door step and fill the sumps. Pandi, a private water supplier, says this year, they have fixed the price at Rs250 for 1000 liters, and Rs1,000 for 5,000 liters. Lakshmanan of Vandiyur says that he has started purchasing 5,000 litres every ten days, something he had to do only in June last year.
 
 Many of the private tankers source their water from private lands in places such as Mastanpatti near Karupayoorani and Viraganoor near the   bed which are rich in ground water. The owners charge Rs150 for 5,000 liters of water. "This becomes a lucrative business for many, as the summer advances,’’ said M Saravanan, who supplies water in a tanker.
 
 K Shanmugapriya of   says that the water she buys from the tanker sometimes smells bad and often moss formation was noticed. "We filter this water with a cloth when we collect it, as we have no other option,’’ she said.
 
 
