THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:     limited, the   ( ) for the implementation of Smart City project is mulling cancellation of tenders for selection of   ( ) in the wake of reports regarding blacklisting of   in two other projects in the country.

 An emergency meeting of SPV, which is scheduled for Wednesday, is expected to take a final call. The SPV had earlier received a letter from Wadia in which the company had cited favourable court orders against blacklisting by Assam public works department and National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation. 
 
 SPV is still confused whether to consider the letter from Wadia and to award the contract to the firm or to award the contract to the second lowest bidder.
 
 However officials have pointed out possible cases of litigation arising in either cases. “The opinion from law department is also pending. However we have been considering various options, even if we go for either of the companies and finalize the bid, chances are high that the project could run into legal tangles and could be delayed forever. It is considering this aspect, re-tendering is being considered seriously as it would only take less than a month for notification and processing of bids,” an official associated with the project said.
 
 The project is already running way short of timelines which were fixed by state high powered steering committee held in 2017. As per the timeline, PMC ought to have been finalized by December 2017 and project should have been in implementation stage by January. Three months have lapsed and no concrete decision could be made regarding PMC once reports about blacklisting surfaced. 
 
 SPV had earlier thought about calling Wadia for a hearing and the firm had also offered to turn up for a personal hearing. However it is learnt that Wadia representative will not be attending the SPV meeting to be held on Thursday which gives further indications that a retendering is being strongly considered.
 
 KM Beena, CEO of SPV however said that no decision has been made so far.
 
 Mayor V K Prasanth has recently held meetings with various departments regarding construction of smart bus shelters as part of taking forward small scale projects. 11 bus shelters have been finalized and corporation is in talks with departments like KSRTC to acquire land required for setting up bus shelters. The city corporation has started engaging its engineering wing to initiate schemes mostly under PAN CITY component of Smart City project. 
 
 As per the Smart City proposal, projects like centralized control room, smart water network, intelligent traffic & transportation, early response system, smart mosquito density system and solid waste management data centre are included under PAN city component and need to be implemented at Rs152.1 crore. Smart bus stops, Street light monitoring and management system, intelligent parking system are the other components.
 
 The civic body is now working on a plan to engage departments like Kerala water authority, KSEB etc. to execute projects related to water supply, smart metering and street lights.
 
 
