NAGPUR: Amid   trumpeting its four-year achievements and comparing those with Congress’s six-decade rule, Gujarat’s Dalit leader   announced a fresh campaign to reduce the saffron party’s tally in 2019 general elections. 

 The drive aims to reduce BJP’s presence by at least 60 seats, three each in 20 states. The ground work for the campaign, named ‘Mission 60’, has already started and it will be launched in a couple of months, he said. 
 
 Earlier at a function organized by Dalit outfits here, Mevani said that he would ask at least a lakh Dalits in Rajasthan to pledge in the name of Babasaheb Ambedkar to not to vote for the BJP. A similar oath-taking campaign will be held in each district of Maharashtra during the state elections, he said.
 
 Talking to TOI, he said that the campaign plans to bring together 100 anti-BJP leaders and activists from 20 states across the country. A strategy would be drawn to ensure that BJP loses at least three seats in each of the 20 states.
 
 Speaking on former President Pranab Mukherjee’s upcoming visit to the city to attend RSS function, Mevani said that he would have turned down the invitation had he been in Mukherjee’s place. “It’s his personal decision. Now that he has agreed to come, Mukherjee should rather use the opportunity to lock down RSS,” said Mevani.
 
 Mevani said that he wasn’t affiliated to any party and his only aim is to ensure that the BJP loses, even if any other party gains out of it. He said that the BJP is fascist party and the Modi government is a complete failure. 
 
 “When Modi took over, it was expected that he would further accelerate the policies introduced by his predecessor Manmohan Singh. Though it would have increased gross domestic product, the human development index would have gone down. However, the government has failed on both the fronts,” he said.
 
 Mevani said the BJP would not change its fascist outlook even without Modi. Though Atal Bihari Vajpayee was known to be liberal,   riots took place during his regime. “When riots took place, Vajpayee merely noted that Modi should follow his Raj Dharma (duty as ruler). Was it not Vajpayee’s duty as a Prime Minister to contain the riots?,” said Mevani.
 
 On the BJP’s prospects in Uttar Pradesh, Mevani said the party stood no chance in the general elections as Samajwadi Party and BSP’s coming together has entirely changed the political equations. It may a difficult for BJP to sustain if Mayawati campaigns aggressively, he said.
 
 
