When   started NGO Biospheres in 2010, he knew that though his approach would be multi-pronged he would be single minded in his aim of creating environmental awareness.

 “When we started, our mandate was to make people aware of environment and natural heritage and environmental challenges faced by the world,” Punekar, who has a PhD in botany, said.
 
 The approaches have, over the years, included tour of Western Ghats, workshops with other environment groups and policymakers, and sustainable ecotourism --- all in a bid to “reconnect” man with nature.
 
 “Our greatest strength has always been hard-core research in flora and fauna. We have published papers in many reputed scientific journals and introduced about 24 new plant species to the scientific community. We study movement of animals in a given ecosystem and try to inform policymakers about such reports. Our field reports have helped identify new micro-centres of endemism in Western Ghats, where rare species of plants and animals flourish,” Punekar said.
 
 His organisation also compiled a report on the effect of   construction on the city’s natural heritage and on the ecosystem of the Mutha .
 
 Punekar also described the “effective measures” taken by his organisation to let wildlife flourish, both in controlled and natural environments.
 
 “There are a number of species of both plants and animals in Western Ghats whose numbers are dwindling, and we try to do in-situ conservation of them, especially plant species. In cases where this is not possible, we breed those plants in-vitro, and then reintroduce them to natural environments”.
 
 Another critically-acclaimed project involved going into natural habitats of birds and record calls of around 70 to 80 bird species, including those endemic and endangered.
 
 “It was part a of the Language of Mother Nature project. Our aim was to help people meditate and for scientific documentation. The approaches in recording sounds had to be different, depending on the habitat, but most were recorded in Western Ghats and the Deccan Plateau,” Punekar remarked.
 
 He also had a brush with politics to advance his agenda. Punekar contested the   (PMC) elections from Parvati on a   ticket, though he eventually lost.
 
