HYDERABAD: Sixteen fraudsters, who duped banks to the tune of Rs 2.39 crore by obtaining credit cards through forged documents, were arrested by Cyber crime sleuths of Cyberabad police. They were part of four gangs operating in the city.

 
  
  
 On February 21, private employee Naveen Jyothi lodged a complaint stating that his bank KYC details were misused by culprits to obtain a   from SBI in his name. They made purchases worth Rs 88,654 using the credit card. After investigation, police arrested main accused P Shivaram Prasad, a native of Kadapa district in Andhra Pradesh. Based on his confession, police nabbed his eight associates, including B Ravi Teja, a software engineer with Accenture. The gang members prepared fake salary slips of corporates like Accenture and, by coupling them with forged voter ID cards, obtained PAN cards by taking attestation from M Moshe, deputy paramedical officer, medical & health department, Madugula village of Guntur district. After obtaining PAN cards, they used to open bank accounts and get credit cards. “They obtained 33 credit cards of SBI through fraudulent means and duped the bank of Rs 36,83,509 by misusing them,” Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar said.
 
 Prasad also made purchases worth Rs 37.8 lakh at a popular electronic showroom by furnishing fake PAN card and misusing the credit card. Police seized a Hyundai Accent car, a Royal Enfield bike, three laptops, 49 PAN cards, 19 Voter ID cards, 25 cheque books, registration documents of fictitious companies.Similarly, Cyber Crime team also arrested P Praveen Kumar of Medak and his three associates. Praveen, who is with SKP Securities, obtained ID proofs from the internet and prepared fake IDs. Using the same modus operandi, Praveen and his associates obtained 17 SBI credit cards and defrauded the bank of Rs 1.45 crore by opening current accounts in the name of different firms.
 
 Based on a complaint lodged by BN Reddy Nagar corporator M Laxmi Prasanna about unknown persons obtaining credit card using her KYC details, police arrested G Shiva Kumar of Kadapa and M Ramaiah of Nalgonda. The duo had obtained 12 SBI credit cards fraudulently and ddefrauded the bank to the tune of Rs 12.5 lakh.
 
 In another case, police arrested U Devi Prasad, a former sales executive of SBI, from Jeedimetla for obtaining three credit cards of SBI usinig forged documents and misuing them to the tune of Rs 6.45 lakh.
 
