GURUGRAM: Probably the first time   entered any sporting conversation was when  , the ‘Haryana Hurricane’, was swinging lustily (with bat and ball). But this state is more renowned for its feats in boxing and wrestling, than those in cricket. 

 In a year that sees the Commonwealth Games (Gold Coast, Australia) and Asian Games (Jakarta and Palembang, Indonesia) being held in different parts of the continent, there is hope aplenty that Haryana, India’s most winningest state on the global stage, will return with another rich haul of medals.
 
  “If Haryana was a country, it would be fifth on the list of gold medal winners at the Delhi 2010 Commonwealth Games,” points out Kanthi D Suresh, an HR consultant who has been anchor at the Olympics,   and the Commonwealth Games, a personal witness to many an Indian podium finish.
 
  “At the 2010 Asian Games in Guangzhou, Haryana sportspersons won 31 out of a total of 65 medals, and in 2014 in Incheon (Korea), it was 22 out of 57.”
 
  But what of Gurugram? For a district that contributes most to the state exchequer, and is headquarters to more than half the Fortune 500 companies, it has little to show when it comes to sporting achievement.
 
  Only the story of Anup Kumar can be said to be locally scripted. Kumar, from the village of Palra, on the outskirts of the city, has enjoyed a lot of kabaddi success, as skipper of India and U Mumba (in the Pro Kabaddi League).
 
  In 2016, Gurugram basked in the exploits of Paralympian Deepa Malik, a native of Sonepat but a Gurugrammer on the back of her lengthy training stints here, when she returned from the Rio Olympics with a silver.
 
  Gurugram has also been home to champion golfers, among them Jyoti Randhawa, Digvijay Singh and Vani Kapoor. Add to those names that of 21-year-old Shubhankar Sharma, of Chandigarh but made (coached) in Gurugram, who in December became the youngest Indian to win an event on any of the international golf tours. 
 
  Clearly, there’s no dearth of private facilities in Gurugram. What’s missing, Kanthi feels, are focus and desire, qualities not lacking in smaller towns and rural areas, which have fed much of India’s success in multidiscipline events. And in Haryana, Bhiwani, Rohtak and Sonepat are the strongholds, the nurseries of sporting ability.
 
  According to Rajesh Mehrotra, a sports professional who has been involved with marquee events in cricket, golf, tennis and football, sport offers a way out of the village for kids. “In rural districts, people don’t have a Plan B, which means that sport is their only ladder to success,” he says. “In Haryana, rural sports are big, they’re part of the culture in these places, a culture that’s become amplified because people have started winning medals.”
 
  Mehrotra believes that for Gurugrammers, rural activities are less of an attraction than, say, cricket or tennis or football. So, if not an Asiad or Olympic medal, a Gurugram boy or girl can certainly conquer the clay courts or football stadia of Europe. 
 
 Still, whatever part Gurugram might play, expect Haryana to assume the lead role again in 2018. 
 
 
