Vadodara: The standing committee of the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) passed the controversial proposals clearing the deck for the existing bidders for the Sanjaynagar housing scheme at Warasiya. The proposals were brought after the civic body sought a legal opinion from a retired Supreme Court (SC) judge.

 The standing committee on Friday allowed a proposal by the VMC commissioner seeking the reinstatement of WAPCOS Ltd as the project management consultant. The agency was shown the door after alleged irregularities had come to light in the housing scheme.
 
 The irregularities that the VMC administration had highlighted included that of the partners of the realty joint venture (JV) changing stakes in the JV. While Narayan Realty Pvt Ltd had a 51% stake in the JV, Sai Ruchi and DMC Infra Developers had 49% stake. This was changed to 15% stake of Narayan Realty and 85% stake of Sai Ruchi and DMC Infra Developers after the bid for the project got through.
 
 VMC officials saw this as a major violation of tender conditions. But the legal opinion by the SC judge stated that the change in the shareholding pattern could not be seen as a lapse. At the other end, the JV had recently agreed to stick to the original share holding pattern wherein Narayan Realty held 51% stake and other partners the remaining 49%. The standing committee allowed that the JV could continue with this shareholding pattern.
 
 The consultant was blamed for not being able to ensure that the joint venture stuck to the tender conditions. Apart from the change in shareholding pattern, this included a demand by the JV that a storm water drain passing though the site should be made by the VMC. The VMC even brought out tenders for this and only at a later stage backed out stating that this was to be done by the JV. The JV is later learnt to have agreed to make the storm water drain too.
 
 As many as 2,637 houses will be constructed at Kishanwadi as a part of the project. The housing scheme will come up under the Pradhan Mantri Aavas Yojana (PMAY). The houses that will come up at the site include 1,841 dwellings for Sanjaynagar residents that were razed last year.
 
 VMC standing committee chairperson Dr Jigisha Sheth defended the decisions by the standing committee stating that these were taken based on a legal opinion. She added that the JV had also agreed to stick to its original shareholding pattern.
 
 
