JAIPUR:   may have entered the   space late, but the state government is now pushing the pedal harder to accelerate the pace and beat first-mover locations such as Telangana, Pune and even Bengaluru in creating a compelling ecosystem.

 The government-led initiative is elaborate and encompassing all layers—from evaluation to providing free space, connectivity, easier funding, mentorship and exposure.
 
  
 “We are building the biggest startup hub in the country with a seating capacity of 700. This will be operational in two-and-a-half months’ time, around mid-June. The startups and entrepreneurs will be provided free space, internet, and other infrastructure at the Bhamashah Techno Hub,” said Akhil Arora, principal secretary, department of IT and communication.
 
 The hub will not be bigger than the much-talked about T-Hub in Hyderabad. Unlike the T-Hub which charges a fee from startups, the facilities will be free in Rajasthan.
 
 “The entrepreneurs registered with us and approved by an independent third party will be given free access to facilities, provided they show month-on-month growth. The purpose is to get serious entrepreneurs. Already, about 700 startups have been approved for this,” added Arora.
 
 Through a Qrate platform, the department has already put in place evaluation benchmarks with categories like bronze, silver, gold, platinum, and signature. The maximum period an entrepreneur can use the facilities is two years.
 
 There are two incubation centres already running—one in Jaipur, with 45 operating startups, and the recently inaugurated one in Udaipur.
 
 For funding, the department has created various options. Early stage ideas often struggle to get seed funds to get off the block, while unavailability of growth fund also challenges the building scale and size.
 
 “We have recognized these needs and accordingly created funding plans. For startups needing seed fund to at least try out their ideas, we provide Rs 2 lakh as grant. They can use the money for purchasing some critical capital components or services. For startups looking for expanding their business, we provide both interest-free loans and equity capital. All these funding proposals are evaluated by an external jury,” added Arora.
 
 So far, six startups have received funding of Rs 20 lakh each and another one Rs 15 lakh. As per the scheme, the government will provide a maximum of Rs 25 lakh matching the funds the startups raise from recognized VC or PE funds.
 
 “There is a perception that the government is conservative in scrutiny and, hence, most people may not get funding. We have laid down a very simple procedure and roped in creditable funding agencies which are empaneled with the government. If they do their due diligence and grant funding, we will match the fund up to Rs 25 lakh. In five days flat, we will sanction the funding,” said Arora.
 
 The government has earmarked Rs 500 crore to meet the funding requirement of startups.
 
 Recently, an expression of interest was issued to appoint mentors for startups. The department has received five proposals and is currently doing preliminary evaluation. Arora said mentorship was one of the key focus areas of the overall plan.
 
 “We are taking onboard people who have good experience either in the corporate or startup world to create our own team. At the same time, we have come out with an expression of interest for taking experienced organisations who have been running incubators and mentorship programmes. We have already received bids,” he said.
 
 The government knows its strengths and weaknesses.
 
 “We are creating infrastructure, providing funding and banking on experts for guiding the startups,” he further said.
 
