It’s been a little over seven months since   released, yet shouts of “Arjun Reddy” greet   wherever he goes. Admittedly the actor is still figuring out how to deal with the fan frenzy that the epoch-making success of the film has triggered. “It’s insane! When I go out, there are thousands of people waiting for me, screaming and shouting my name. All this love and adulation can affect anyone. I don’t understand why people are reacting that way. In fact, sometimes when I look at myself, I don’t feel like its me, it’s hard to explain,” says Vijay as he settles down for a heart-to-heart with Hyderabad Times. Excerpts... 

 
 To me it feels like I’ve been around for just 2-3 years in the industry (laughs). But I’m glad it took time for success to come my way. I wouldn’t have known how to deal with it, had I tasted this kind of admiration first up, trust me it’s not easy to handle, I’d have been extremely lost. 
 
 
 I guess you cannot prepare yourself enough for stardom, even though you strive for it all your life. Yes, I’m a middle class boy, who wanted to be an actor. So I did theatre, read about acting and cinema all my life and today here I am. But my life has flipped completely, in multiple ways. Firstly, people look at you differently whether or not you change as a person, everyone’s attitude and perception towards you changes. Folks in the industry think ‘Okay, this guy can act and carry a film on his shoulders’. Every producer you know, wants to work with you, which is good, but then I have to listen to scripts, and then say a ‘yes’ or a ‘no’ and saying a ‘no’ becomes difficult. So many directors are banking on you, if you say yes, the film will go on the floors, and then there are a lot of requests and obligations. Take my mum for example. She sometimes asks me to pose for pictures with our family members, relatives or her friends, because she’s obligated. She’ll be like, ‘I know them well, they’re asking for pictures, just take one with them’. 
 In a month, I get invited to some 20 events, but I’m shooting and have no time. When I explain why I can’t make it, they say ‘just come for half-and-hour’. For them it’s ‘just half-an-hour’ but for me it’s another an hour which I don’t have. Right now, I don’t have half-an-hour for myself, I rarely get a day off to just relax, watch a film or sleep. No doubt, life’s changed and I know I’m not doing a good job of explaining this, it’s very surreal. I’ve ended up being obligated to doing a lot of things I wouldn’t even want to do.
 
 
 You have to change a bit to deal with it and I definitely have changed. But the change is not to do just with my newfound stardom. See, I kept changing as a person through school, college, when I did theatre and when films happened subsequently. I was a different person when I was a struggling actor. 
 Once you become an actor, you have to say goodbye to your personal life. An actor’s life is abnormal! It feels like I’m being watched all the time, whether I’m at a restaurant, gym or anywhere. I sometimes feel, I don’t want to be looked at. I want to chill with my friends and family, I want to laugh and have my time off work. 
 A lot of stuff is written about me, like recently there were reports that I was married. There is speculation about me doing films I have not heard of or I’ve said no to. So yes, life has changed. I believe circumstances force you to adapt accordingly. It’s bulls$%t to say ‘I’m the same’. No one is the same and everyone changes. It’s a natural human tendency. Live with it!
 
 
 (Smiles) Yes. A few things have become really easy, like I no longer have to worry about being unable to afford gym fees, pay house rent or my car’s EMI — these problems are sorted. I’m not fighting those battles anymore. I ventured into cinema after theatre because I didn’t want to confine myself to just one auditorium. I wanted the whole world to talk about me. You just have one life, why not do something crazy? More than anything, I wanted to make money. To be frank, I don’t know about passion and all, I wouldn’t have been doing cinema had it not been for the money. I choose cinema because I enjoy acting and it pays well. If not I’d have found something that pays me well and enjoyed it. I wanted a good life and did not want to struggle to pay rent or live in homes where water leaks through the roof and not having good food to eat. I want comfort and to pleasure all my senses, my eyes, my taste buds — everything. That’s why I’m here. 
 
 
 
 (Laughs) I’m sure I’ll get in trouble some day, trouble is always around the corner with me (laughs). Sometimes you do stuff impulsively and sometimes you say what you want to say. I can’t just shut up and sit, if I’ve an issue I’ll speak. My dad always tells me ‘think twice before you speak’. Once I went to gym after which I had to head to the audio launch of my next Tamil film. After I reached home and my dad said ‘You went to launch event in your gym wear!’. I can understand that they’re worried, but I tell them to chill. 
 My parents know that I can make my own decisions and handle situations. I’ve grown up in a hostel in Puttaparthi (600kms away from Hyderabad) where we dealt with our own mess. I remember, we would give wrong phone numbers or a friend’s uncle’s number when we got into trouble with the school authorities (laughs). But I've grown up now 
 Well professionally too, you seem to be looking to grow beyond Tollywood. Tell us about your Tamil-Telugu bilingual NOTA?
 I was getting a lot of Tamil offers for a long time, but I kept saying no to all of them because, for me acting has a lot to do with knowing the language. I need to know the meaning of the lines I say. But the story of NOTA was so good, so I thought let’s give it a try and learn Tamil so that it helps me act well. And the makers were keen on casting me for this film and having me do this character, so for me it's a huge challenge. I don’t know Tamil and I’m learning it for this film, let’s see how it turns out.
 
 
 I met Mani sir because he liked my work and it was a big thing for me that he called me to meet. We discussed a couple of ideas, so if something clicks in future, we’ll do it. In fact, we’ve met a couple of times to know more about each other. So, nothing as of now, shall reveal when I sign something.
 You’re also doing a handful of Telugu films including the most talked about Savitri biopic, Mahanati...
 I worked with director Nag Ashwin in   (2015), a film which changed me and pushed me in lot of ways as an actor. I was very raw when I did that film and we bonded very well. I feel safe around Nagi, I like him. So when I was approached to do a minor role in Mahanati, I said ‘OK’ without even asking for the script. I’m doing a minor role, it’s my way of saying thank you to Nagi. Also, it was a chance to be a part of this huge cast and project. 
 Besides, I’m working on couple of films, one with director Parasuram’s starring Rashmika Mandanna. All the Arjun Reddy fans should watch this film as it’s going to be new and different. You’ll realise as soon as you see the trailer. I’m happy that every film I’m taking up now, is different from each other.
 
 
 Yes, I like dark and intense stuff, serious roles — more layers there are to a character the more scope there is for an actor to perform. After my Tamil film, there are a few intense films lined up. Call it the Arjun Reddy effect (laughs). 
 
 
 It’s quite overwhelming. Recently, I was shooting in Kakinada and from there, we had to go to Annavaram, which is a two-hour drive. Two college girls, from another town got to know that I was shooting in Kakinada and they reached there to see me, but by then we had left. Undettered, they drove all the way to Annavaram on two wheeler just to meet me. We were shooting in an isolated place on top of a hill. I felt bad when I saw these girls driving so far to meet me, I gave them a hug and clicked pictures with them. Then they gifted me a watch, I was like I don’t want this, but took it and in return I gave the watch I was wearing. I was feeling guilty, so more than an act of sweetness, it was an act of guilt. I had to do it because I can’t live with it. 
 And people go all out with what they do, there are many fans who know everything about you, every speech you gave or said something in an interview. They end up asking about things I might not remember, you said that then and you doing this now, and I would be like, ‘did I say this’. Because I’m forgetful, I don’t remember things, but my fans remind me what I said when and where. I get to know from them what I’m doing (smiles).
 
 
 There are no rumours because I haven’t had any affair ever. Who would have wanted to have an affair with a struggling actor? It was only after   that people started noticing me. So, if I have an affair in future, the world will know, I won’t care and let the world know about her. Khulam khulla pyar karenge, I can’t take that much stress. 
 
 
 No! I’m 28, but still not ready for marriage. I’ve made it very clear to my parents that I’m not ready for marriage right now. There’s so much I want to do. I want to travel the world, do crazy things. I want to skydive, do bungee jumping, live life on the edge. If I come out alive after all that, then I’ll think of the biggest adventure of them all — marriage. Then I’ll be prepared and ready to wed. (laughs).
 
