GHAZIABAD: The station house officers of   and   police stations, and the chowki in-charge of NH-24 bypass have been removed from their posts and sent to police lines for their failure to curb the extortion racket run by a few gangs. The gang members used to exploit iron traders and factory owners by forcefully offloading a portion of their shipment of iron rods or bars and shift them to their godowns.

 
 “The extortion racket has been working silently for a long time wherein the transporters and the factory owners were forced to forego 2-3% (from half a tonne to two tonnes) of each shipment to these mafia gangs. Knowing that there is no escape, the truck drivers during each trip would themselves go to these godowns and dump a fixed load, and in turn, were paid a certain amount. Later, in connivance with commercial weighing stations on the highways, the truck drivers would use wooden blocks or iron scraps to compensate for the portion of iron rods/bars dumped at illegal godowns,”   Vaibhav Krishna said.
 
 In a four-hour-long drive conducted on Friday night, 43 people were arrested from the illegal godowns, including the godown owners, commercial weighing station owners and truck drivers who were found involved in this nexus. Also, 16 trucks containing 393.3 tonnes of iron bars and rods worth Rs 2 crore were seized from the godowns. Besides, two electronic chips and six remote controls, used by the owners of commercial weighing stations to alter the readings of measuring equipment, were also seized.
 
 The three officers who have been sent to the police lines are Naresh Kumar Singh, SHO, Vijay Nagar police station,  , SHO, Kavi Nagar police station and sub-inspector Pavendra Singh, bypass chowki in-charge.
 
 “It is the failure of local police if they could not detect the nexus which had been running right under their nose. Some of the gangsters who were operating the entire extortion racket include Sunder Bhati, Anil Dujana, Ravinder Nagar alias Ravi Kana and his son Awadh. Other prominent names are Satish Yadav and Sundar Yadav, who ran the racket in Vijay Nagar and Kavi Nagar areas respectively,” SSP Vaibhav Krishna said.
 
 “Many godown owners revealed they paid a fixed amount to Bhati and Dujana to run the business. While most traders had silently accepted the extortion and willingly allowed offloading of a fixed amount of iron bars at these godowns, those who resisted were made to surrender through threats and force,” an officer said. Owners of many weighing stations on highways played a major role. “They tinkered with the software and hardware of the weighing equipment to show false quantity of each shipment,” the SSP said.
 
 Investigations revealed that nearly 500 trucks passing through NH-24, Hapur and GT roads were extorted daily, and every night iron worth Rs 50 lakh was dumped in the godowns of the mafia, who then sold it at market price.
 
 
