TIRUPUR: The city corporation has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the   (CSIR-CLRI), Chennai, to set up a plant to produce bio-compressed natural gas (bio-CNG) from municipal solid waste (MSW). Instead of utilising methane produced at the plant for generating electricity, the project — Waste Into Wheels — aims to use it as an alternative for vehicle fuel.

 
 With a population of around 10lakh, Tirupur corporation generates 520ton MSW per day, including 100ton biodegradable waste. The biodegradable waste collected from hotels and vegetable markets is dumped along other solid waste in dumping yards.
 
 Currently, biogas produced from plants set up by the commissionerate of municipal administration (CMA) in 33 civic bodies across Tamil Nadu as part of a pilot study, is utilised for generating electricity.   is now planning to upgrade those plants with the guidance of  , which has successfully established six large-scale biomethanisation plants in other states.
 
 CLRI is running projects in states like Punjab, West Bengal and Maharashtra where biomethane is used as vehicle fuel, senior principal scientist at CLRI’s   P Shanmugam told TOI. “The fuel can be used in diesel vehicles. It costs half the price of diesel at Rs 40/kg. Moreover, it would increase the mileage 1.3 times,” he said.
 
 In a diesel-powered car that gives a mileage of around 15-18kmpl, biogas would increase it to 22-25 km/kg, Shanmugam said. “As many as 134 state-run buses are operated utilising biogas fuel generated in the biomethanisation plant established by the Kolkata corporation. Pune has a refilling station of biogas fuel. All these were established with the support of CLRI,” the scientist said.
 
 The Tirupur corporation is the second civic body in Tamil Nadu to sign an MoU with CLRI after Trichy corporation. Soon, Chennai and Coimbatore corporations will ink such deals, which will complete CLRI’s initial phase of establishing such plants in the state. “All the four proposed biomethanisation plants would generate biogas, which would be compressed into cylinders like compressed natural gas (CNG). They will be sold as vehicle fuel. That’s why the project is called Waste Into wheels. We are confident about the feasibility of the projects,” Shanmugam added.
 
 Tirupur corporation engineer G Ravi told TOI that “With the technical support from CLRI, the corporation will establish the biomethanisation plant in public-private-partnership (PPP) model under the Integrated Urban Development Mission. With CLRI preparing a detailed project report (DPR), the project will hopefully be implemented soon.”
 
 
