BENGALURU: The drama at Vidhana Soudha gained pace during the first half of Saturday when Congress, whose leaders repeatedly claimed to have the numbers, released a series of audio clippings in which senior   members were allegedly luring   MLAs.

 
 On Thursday, the party had released an audio clip involving mining baron  's voice.
 
 The BJP, which had claimed Janardhana Reddy's audio as fake, on Saturday said the audios being released by Congress MLC   were recorded using mimicry artistes.
 
  
  
 Ugrappa, released a series of audios including one in which a speaker, alleged to be Yeddyurappa, lures Congress MLA BC Patil to return to the party. Yeddyurappa although does not offer anything on the tape. Patil is heard telling BSY that he would return the call five minutes later.
 
 In another audio, senior BJP leaders B Sreeramulu and Muralidhar Rao also allegedly make phone calls to lure Patil.
 
 Ugrappa also played an audio that allegedly had voices of BJP leader BG Puttaswamy and BSY's son BY Vijayendra making calls to the wife of Yellapur MLA Shivaram Hebbar. In these audios, both Vijayendra and Puttaswamy are heard offering Rs 15 crore without a minister's post and Rs 5 crore with him as a minister. The duo, in separate calls, also tell the woman that with the BJP at both the Centre and state, her husband's political career will be taken care of.
 
 The woman, on the other hand, is also heard bargaining for the Centre's intervention in dropping mining cases against her son. Separately, the brother of Congress MLA BK Sangameshwara, has alleged that he received calls from BJP leaders seeking him to convince his brother to vote in favour of Yeddyurappa.
 
 BJP spokesperson S Prakash, told TOI: "The Congress is using mimicry artistes to release fake audios at a time when the state is going through a serious political challenge. This is in bad taste, and I think Urgappa has no work to do." @Siddaramaiah: PM @ narendramodi never tires of lecturing the nation on corruption. Does he have the moral courage to advice BJP   & BS Yeddyurappa to stop these attempts to bribe MLAs, and allow the formation of a stable coalition Government in the interest of Karnataka?
 
 
