In the latest episode of  , Naira comes searching for Suhana in Aryan's room. She tells her to come downstairs as everybody is looking for her. Suhana seems hesitant to go but agrees.

 She holds Aryan's hand. Rahul sees them and tells her to let go. Aryan and Rahul get into a fight, while Manish and Kartik try to stop them. Suhana also begs them to stop. Rahul blames Aryan and his family for instigating Suhana. They devise a plan together and Rahul says he will call up the police. Manish steps in and says he will do the same. Suhana sees this and looks at Rahul. She doesn't know what to do.
 
 Suwarna talks to Manish and says that they should stop the police. Manish asks Suwarna if she already knew about Suhana and Aryan. Suwarna replies in the affirmative. She tells him that Aryan loves Suhana and it is their duty to unite them. Manish is angry with her for not informing him about it and causing trouble to the family. He calls Aryan careless for not telling anyone about his plans to marry Suhana. He asks Kartik to talk to Aryan.
 
 Suhana is scared of calling the police, knowing that she has already been in a lot of trouble because of her past crimes. Naira sees her and asks her why she was scared. Suhana stays silent. The police van comes.
 
 As soon as they enter, Suhana sees Holi colours and smears them on Rahul's face. She says that she doesn't want to end the festival on a bad note. Rahul realizes what she is trying to do and puts colours on Suhana's face as well. This leaves everyone shocked. Seeing no problem, the police leaves.
 
 Rahul and Suhana apologize to the Goenkas. They tell them that their misunderstandings have been cleared. Rahul says he is ready to take a call. Manish stops him and says that he will take a decision regarding Aryan and Suhana after some time. Suhana observes Naira and feels she has to be careful around her.
 
 Meanwhile, Kartik worries about Dadi finding out about the police. Dadi slowly gains conscious and realizes that somebody had mixed 'thandai' powder in her juice. She feels bad about her act in front of the Goenkas and the Singhanias. Naira tells her she shouldn't feel bad and asks her to let it go. Suwarna tells Kartik that she wants Aryan to be happy and will do anything to convince Manish.
 
 As they are getting ready to leave, Kirti wonder what will happen if Naksh finds out the note. Rajshri goes and sits in the car. She doesn't come out despite Kirti and Naksh consoling her. Dadi gets to know about Suhana. As Kirti waits outside, in the car, she faints. Meanwhile, Naira is in Dadi's room, she begins to feel sick and faints as well. 
 
