Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation has come under scanner for bending rules to extend the tenure of retired additional municipal commissioner Rizwan Siddiqui in the same post. Siddiqui had faced a departmental enquiry that led to stopping of his two increments. As per Maharashtra government rules, extension of service or appointment of any retired official on contractual basis can be only done for those who have not faced any departmental enquiry or found guilty in such an enquiry. Siddiqui had faced a departmental enquiry in 1997 recruitment scam when the civic body had irregularly appointed 106 employees all of whom were terminated. Under political pressure and through high court directives, civic body had regularized 89 of them, the remaining 17 recently lost their case in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. “In that case, Siddiqui was found guilty and his two increments were stopped,” said a source.  On March 20, ruling party leader Sandip Joshi tabled minutes of February month’s general body meeting in the House to extend the tenure of Siddiqui as additional municipal commissioner or appoint him on contractual basis. Joshi was the proposer while leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve was the seconder of the proposal. The civic body had already appointed Siddiqui as director of special purpose vehicle Nagpur Environmental Services Limited (NESL). Also, public works, electrical, projects, finance and DPDC departments will continue to be under him. Siddiqui, the first additional municipal commissioner appointed by NMC itself, retired on February 28. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal on March 1 gave him charge as NESL director and also of some departments considering his vast experience in the civic body. Siddiqui also held the charge of general administration department and a few more that were transferred to additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare. Now, the civic chief has delegated the powers of finance and public works department to Siddiqui as well. Siddiqui had reportedly converted NMC’s clinic in Sadar area as his residence since last many years, sources claimed. Even after his retirement, he didn’t vacate the clinic and is using the fire department’s Manza car.  Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal said there was no violation in appointing Siddiqui as he has been made NESL director. The civic body has already submitted proposal of his appointment for state government’s approval. He said Siddiqui will have no administrative or financial powers.