CHANDIGARH: The mayoral elections has triggered a rebellion in the  , with sitting mayor   filing her papers as an independent after the   chose Davesh   as its candidate for the top seat.

 All three candidates of the BJP — Moudgil for the post of mayor, Gurpreet Singh Dhillon for senior deputy mayor and Vinod Aggarwal for deputy mayor — filed their papers on the last day of nominations amid high drama on Wednesday. Infighting and factionalism forced the BJP, which enjoys a brute majority of 20 councillors in the house of 26, to wait till the last minute to announce its candidates. As soon as that was done, Jaswal raised the banner of revolt. She was joined by Ravi Kant Sharma of the party, who filed his papers for the senior deputy mayor’s post.
 
 The BJP is divided into two groups led by MP Kirron Kher and its city president Sanjay Tandon. Both Jaswal and Sharma belong to Tandon’s camp.
 
 Party’s Chandigarh in-charge and MP  , who was in the city to lead the selection process, termed their move as an individual decision, but added things will be sorted out. “Each individual has his or her own opinion and people can even disagree with me. However, the party’s decision always remains supreme,” he said. “I am hopeful those who filed their papers as independent candidates will withdraw them and things will return to normalcy. In big political parties, there is difference of opinions among individuals, but everybody comes together for the betterment of the party in the end,” he said.
 
 The internal tussle in the BJP has come to the fore on many occasions, with cross-voting by its members in different elections, the latest being when one of its five candidates,  , lost the election of the   and   (F&CC) to Babla. Cross-voting cost the party dear in 2015 mayoral elections, when Congress’s Poonam Sharma bagged the mayor’s post despite BJP having a majority with 16 councillors. In 2000, Raj Kumar Goel of Congress went on to win the mayor election despite the party not having majority.
 
 Earlier in the day, the meeting of the BJP to select the candidates began at 7 am. “Jha took the views of all the party councillors. The party even asked all councillors to mark their respective choices in a piece of paper,” said a BJP councillor. In the afternoon, Jha met party’s core committee members comprising Chandigarh BJP president Sanjay Tandon, former city MP Satya Pal Jain, in-charge organisation Dinesh Kumar.
 
 
 
 
 
 In the afternoon, Jha met party’s core committee members comprising Tandon, former city MP Satya Pal Jain, in-charge organisation Dinesh Kumar. Kirron Kher was not present in the meeting. Finally, around 4.30pm, all emerged together to name the three candidates.
 
 
 They were Moudgil for the post of mayor, Gurpreet Singh Dhillon for senior deputy mayor and Vinod Aggarwal for deputy mayor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Kher had also spoken in favour of Moudgil during her discussion with senior party leaders in the past, said a senior BJP leader. Jain and other senior BJP leaders backed Davesh Moudgil during the meeting on Wednesday.
 
 
 “Both Kher and Jain had refused to budge on the name of Moudgil for mayor, but were willing to agree on any names for the post of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor,” sources added.
 
 
 Sources said most of the councillors were also not in fa vour of a second stint for Sood. They were of the view that other councillors should be given an opportunity.
 
 
 
