PATNA: The opposition RJD on Wednesday mocked chief minister   for reviving the demand for special category status to  . However, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi of BJP and LJP chief and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan said it was a valid demand.

 
 JD(U) led by   is also planning a convention in Delhi to give impetus to its demand. “We had held a rally in Delhi in 2013 to raise the same demand. We are mulling a rally in Delhi again,” JD(U) secretary-general K C Tyagi said. 
 
 Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said Nitish was only using pressure tactics with BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “Are Nitish and Sushil Modi demanding   for Bihar from (US president) Donald Trump? Do they think people are dumb? Are they afraid in directly talking to Modi Ji? Nitish Chacha, show a straight spinal cord like Chandrababu Naidu,” Tejashwi said. 
 
 “The demand for special status is only an alibi of Nitish for pressurizing BJP to give more seats to his party in the upcoming general elections. He is also panicking as Nitish knows he has no electoral base as seen in the recent byelections. Nonetheless, we cannot accept Nitish at any cost because he was the person who arranged raids on Rabri Devi’s bungalow and made Tejashwi a named accused in the corresponding FIR. There are no chances of accepting him back,” RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari said.
 
 JD(U) functionaries ruled out the possibility of quitting NDA. Tyagi said: “There is no possibility of leaving NDA. The demand for special status for Bihar is being made well within the ambit of the alliance as it is our commitment to the people of the state. (Andhra CM) Chandrababu Naidu should also not have quit NDA.”
 
 Political observers claim the “like-minded” smaller parties are already supporting Bihar CM on this issue. Soon after Nitish wrote a letter on Tuesday to the Finance Commission regarding the demand for special category status, LJP chief Paswan said the demand was legitimate. “The demand is being raised since bifurcation of Bihar. We support the demand even today,” he said here on Tuesday.
 
 JD(U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar, on the other hand, said: “Now that Bihar is slated to submit a memorandum to the 15th Finance Commission in July on demand for special category status based on consensus from all parties, it becomes topical for us to raise the demand.”
 
 
