
 
  What started as a feud between the Kirloskar brothers —   (60) and Atul (61) — over the construction of a gate at their homestead in Model Colony in January 2017 soon snowballed into a fight between the matriarch, 82-year-old Suman Kirloskar, and her younger son, Sanjay, with the former claiming that her son had usurped a Rs 10-crore land parcel at the family’s  . Sanjay was taken to court by his mother, the first round of which was declared in Sanjay’s favour by the city civil court.
  
  Now, in a fresh twist in the family’s bitter dispute,   has sought a partition of assets held by Chandrakant Shantanu Kirloskar Hindu Undivided Family (HUF). He has filed a suit in Pune civil court, senior division.
  
  The suit filed against his mother and brothers Atul, Rahul (54) and their families demands a partition of properties valued at Rs 75 crore, where Sanjay is seeking one-fourth share, which according to suit, stands at Rs 18.5 crore.
  
  Sanjay has listed 10 items in the suit that belong to the HUF in his late father’s name. This includes a 16,000 square feet plot near the entrance of Kirloskar family bungalow Lakaki, its belongings (“carpets, furniture, fixtures, TVs, transistors, tape-recorders, utensils, artefacts, etc”), equity shares in joint stock companies, bank balances, national saving scheme certificates, jewellery, cash and 11,322 shares in Kirloskar Oil Engines Limited.
  
  The suit states that Sanjay did not wish to be part of (coparcener) Chandrakant Shantanu Kirloskar HUF and wrote to his mother and brothers about the same on September 9, 2016. In the letter he sought details of all the properties in the name of HUF and has demanded partition. His mother responded a month later to amicably resolve the issue. In the subsequent exchanges it was decided that all the members of HUF would meet and address the issue. “Thereafter, meeting for effecting the partition never took place,” states the suit, adding that Sanjay was left with no option but to approach the court. It also states that he never got any information on the assets held by the HUF.
  
  
  
  
  The suit goes on to state that before his father passed away in March 1987, he left behind a will in which he bequeathed the Lakaki Bungalow and the belongings inside to his wife Suman. He also appointed the three sons and wife as executors of the will. Sanjay’s suit claims that his mother had lost “her legacy conferred upon her by the said will”. This, he attributes to statements issued by her during a cross examination in another legal dispute.
  
  The suit claims that his mother had refused to accept her husband’s will in entirety during the cross examination. Picking a few lines from the examination, the suit states that Suman did not agree with 16,000-square feet plot inside Lakaki compound being a separate property, although his father stated so specifically in his will.
  
  In the suit Sanjay has sought his one-fourth share and also asked that his brothers and mother be restrained from altering the Lakaki compound in any manner or undertaking any transaction involving it.
  
  
 
  
  The differences between two sides, with mother and eldest son Atul on one and Sanjay on the other, came out in the open in January last year when Sanjay got workers and machinery to demolish a portion of outer Lakaki compound wall. He claimed that a chunk of the plot inside the sprawling com pound was his and that he needed to cordon off his plot. It was during this time that the standoff between the two sides became public and reached Shivajinagar police station. While Sanjay sought protection to build the wall, Suman and her elder son Atul wanted the work to stop. The cops did not extend protection to Sanjay to break the wall, nor did they side up with the mother.
  
  
 
  
  With a stalemate on both sides, Suman filed a suit in civil court, senior division early last year. In an interim order, the judge presiding over the case filed by the matriarch, partially ruled in the favour of Sanjay. Suman Kirloskar has challenged the decision in Bombay High Court. The HC asked both the sides to involve a mediator to try and resolve the dispute.
  
  
 
  
  In response to the current suit filed by Sanjay, other members of Kirloskar family have told the court that the case needs to be stayed as mediation is in progress. “That since mediation is under process, the defendants (Suman, Atul, Rahul and their families) do not want to make any allegations…,” states their response, adding that they should be allowed to put their side forward after the mediation is over.
  
  The suit came up for hearing earlier this year and is scheduled to be heard next on April 24.
  
  
  
