Chennai: Stallions in shiny brown and black coats, sauntering along a brilliantly green soft grass course, surrounded by the Blue Mountains. Every year, the   season in the   comes alive with this idyllic visual. 

 From the days of being a popular summer resort for the British, the hill town along with its colonial cottages and churches, has preserved the legacy of horse racing. Surviving political, social, economic changes, the only high altitude race course in the country, celebrates its 125th year on May 18. 
 
 While old timers remember the glorious galloping spectacle from the stands of the 52-acre course in Ooty, races today are but a shadow of the past. As the season is all set to start on May 12, the future of the Royal Sport in the Nilgiris is uncertain. From the usual 30 meetings of racing, it has gradually come down. And this season, it is only 10 race meetings.
 
 The earliest references to the equestrian sport is found in historian Frederic Price’s ‘Ootacamund — A History’, where he writes: "A loop course having been formed in the Hobart Park, racing at Ootacamund blossomed on May 18, 1894, into a formal meeting under turf club rules and there has, I believe, been one every year since then...’
 
 Those days, about 500 racing horses, 15 trainers and 40 jockeys would arrive in the hill town for the 30 race meetings during summer every year. "One of the memorable events was MAM Ramasamy winning the ‘Nilgiri Derby’ through his ward ‘Great Spectacle’, achieving double century in the classics, a racing Guinness record on May 7, 1995," recollects K Bheeman, a racing enthusiast since the mid-1960s. 
 
 The Ootacamund racing remained a prestigious event since 1900. Till 1970, it was the Ootacamaund Race Co which conducted all the race meetings, one of the British legacies. It was much later that the Madras Race Club (MRC) was formed and declared an independent turf authority. The first blow to the sport came in 1974, when chief minister M Karunanidhi banned racing in 1974.
 
 In 1976, after a direction by the Supreme Court, the Tamil Nadu constituted a committee to study the socio-economic impact of horse racing. "It was a pioneering attempt. A team of 16 conducted the study in Guindy and Ooty. About 500 punters were questioned," says Dharmalingam Venugopal, director of Nilgiri Documentation Centre, who was the principal investigator.
 
 A 10-year analysis of betting showed the racing public was the biggest loser by about one third of their total contribution. The state gained by about one fifth of the funds by way of taxes. And the biggest money makers were horse owners who profited by about 6.6%, says Venugopal. "Though the race-going population in TN was very small, a majority were from low and middle income families, who were generally losers," he remembers. "The study recommended continuance of horse racing but with a caveat that gaming or betting could be expanded but gambling should be abolished."
 
 After a legal tussle spanning years, in 1995, in its landmark judgment the Supreme Court declared that horse racing was not gambling but a mere ‘skill of sport’. While the judgment came as relief to racing enthusiasts the town of Ooty never saw the hustle it had seen in the early days.
 
 On asking why the race meetings had reduced this year, Dr Karthikeyan, secretary, MRC only said that "we could not get the track ready". 
 
 In the past decade, there has been a considerable dip in the racing scene, with the older generation leaving and youngsters hardly showing any enthusiasm. "Over the years racing has become unviable. The punting population has dwindled and the new generation has no inclination," says Venugopal. The MRC owing a sum of `500 crore towards lease to the government is another issue pending in court.
 
 A recent Asian Racing Conference in Mumbai highlighted the problem of declining patronage affecting the racing industry worldwide. "To survive, the management should reinvent itself in tune with the times and the civic needs of Ooty town and the tourist industry," opines Venugopal.
 
 Pointing out that the similarity between the Happy Valley Race Course in Hong Kong and Ooty, Venugopal says, "Both were created during the British-era on swampy lands within town limits. On the model of the Happy Valley course, the MRC could have charity runs and the sport could be a tourist attraction. Extended season and night racing could be introduced and the proceeds used for the upkeep of the town."
 
 
