SHILLONG: The attack on prominent journalist  's residence in the city on Tuesday night has been condemned by journalist organizations from across the country. 

 Unidentified miscreants had lobbed a petrol bomb her residence at around 9 pm on Tuesday and fled. On receiving information,   SP   reached Mukhim's house at   to conduct inquiry into the incident.
 
 According to preliminary reports, two motorcycle-borne youths, whose faces were covered, were seen hurling the petrol bomb which burst into flames setting fire on the concrete wall outside Mukhim's bedroom. Mukhim, who was inside her bedroom at the time of the incident, was not hurt. She herself came out to douse the flames. 
 
 On hearing about the incident, chief minister   and home minister James Sangma called up the senior journalist on Tuesday night. Police have intensified patrolling in the area where Mukhim's house is located.
 
 Meanwhile, the   has strongly condemned the dastardly petrol bomb attack at the residence of Patricia Mukhim. 
 
 In a statement, the Shillong Press Club urged the authorities to leave no stone unturned in tracking and nabbing those responsible for this cowardly act. The Press Club demanded exemplary punishment to the miscreants involved in the incident. 
 
 "Peace has been our hallmark but we will not cower down before forces of evil and no attempt to dissuade us from discharging our professional duties and rendering our service will ever fructify," Press Club president David Laitphlang and general secretary Powell Sohkhlet said in a joint statement.
 
 The Meghalaya Electronic Media Association (MEMA) has condemned those behind a petrol bomb attack at the residence of Patricia Mukhim, Editor of a Shillong based English newspaper on Tuesday night. "No one should come under attack in this society for simply doing their job. This kind of reckless criminality will not be tolerated," MEMA president, Kyrmenlang Uriah said in a statement.
 
 The Shillong Press Club will organize a silent march through the city streets tomorrow to express outrage over the attack on the residence of the Padma Shri award-winning journalist.
 
 
