CHENNAI: Chennai City FC (CCFC) dominated the proceedings, created numerous opportunities but failed to convert them when it mattered as   held them to a goalless draw in their   match here at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Coimbatore, on Tuesday. 

 The fact that CCFC’s in-form striker   - who has five goals to his credit - didn’t play a role in the match till the 87th minute due to a niggle also didn’t help the hosts’ cause as other strikers failed to live up to the expectations.
 
 Even Neroca had their injury woes as striker Subhash Singh missed the contest with a hamstring issue. What also didn’t help matters was the ground’s uneven bounce. A Neroca FC player said that they didn’t want to risk Subhash due to the poor condition of the ground. “It was completely a technical decision. The ground had uneven bounce and there were chances that players might get injured or aggravate their niggles. So we didn’t want to risk Subhash. We are happy with one point,” said a Neroca FC player.
 
 The stalemate at Coimbatore meant that Neroca have extended their unbeaten run to an impressive seven matches in their maiden season. Neroca hang on to their third spot in the table with 15 points, while the hosts are placed seventh with nine points.
 
 For CCFC, Michael Soosairaj played the leading role in the midfield as he rattled the Neroca defenders with his sprints and created chances using the space available. However, he didn’t get much support from his teammates as they either kept losing control of the ball or were guilty of poor decision making at crucial junctures. 
 
 CCFC had a great chance to score in the dying minutes of the first half when Pradeep Mohanraj, who is back after serving one-match ban, sent in a cross to Murilo de Almeida. However Almeida’s audacious attempt from inside the box had little sting in it as the Neroca defenders cleared the ball quickly.
 
 Neroca, on the other hand, did little to threaten the CCFC goal. In absence of Subhash, the onus was on Odili Felix Chidi to lead Neroca’s attack. But CCFC defenders, particularly Veniamin Shumeiko, kept the Nigerian at bay. The 28-year-old Shumeiko was in his elements as he kept a tight leash on Chidi and cleared the ball with ease almost every single time. And when Neroca forwards somehow managed to get past CCFC defence, the goalkeeper Uros Poljanec was always alert to thwart the chances.
 
 The second half was no different to the first. A gallant Soosairaj, who was awarded the man of the match, kept opening up the Neroca defence but CCFC forwards were always off the target. Neroca midfielder Aryn Williams intercepted balls with precision during the second half in his attempt to reverse the pressure. In the 64th minute, he received a ball just outside the box and could have given his team the lead. But his shot was weak and saved by the wicketkeeper.
 
