NEW DELHI: The AAP-led government on Sunday went in for the unique experiment of “direct democracy” wherein residents of Tilak Nagar were empowered to take a decision to shut down a   in their locality that had turned into a source of nuisance.

 A referendum was conducted among 150-odd residents in the presence of chief minister   and deputy CM Manish Sisodia. 
 
 Nearly two-thirds of people attending the meet raised their hands to vote against the 15-year-old liquor shop, which is likely to be closed in the next couple of days.
 
 Kejriwal said the “people’s decision is binding on the government”.
 
 The shop allegedly attracts anti-social elements who drink outside the housing societies on the roadside and tease women. “One person was found urinating at the entrance of the society around 10pm on Friday. When I objected to it, he made lewd gestures. The man had been drinking with his friends in a car parked nearby,” a woman resident of Anmol Vatika told TOI.
 
 Rajesh Daman, senior vice-president of block 5,6,7,8 RWA, said people have been seeking its closure for a long time. Others said that the shop was resulting in illegal parking, gathering of street vendors, nuisance and traffic snarls. This had even led to a tussle between the residents and the shop owner. A few months ago, a chicken shop opened next to the liquor shop adding to the chaos.
 
 “When people came to me, I asked them to give a written complaint to the excise department,” said Tilak Nagar MLA Jarnail Singh, who had organised the meeting and referendum.
 
 The government has now decided to take a mandatory public opinion for operation of liquor shops, including closing them, if complaints are registered against it. “This will be the first-of-its-kind move. Such decisions have no room for mistakes because people from both sides will be present in the decision-making process,” Kejriwal said at the meeting.
 
 The owners of the shops, however, alleged that the decision was biased against them. “The nuisance is because of the chicken shop and not the liquor shop. A group of people took the decision. Our voice was not heard in the meeting,” said Laxman Sharma, owner of the shop in east Tilak Nagar that was ordered to be shut down.
 
 
