Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com

 Ask actress  , who was in Lucknow recently for a private event, about Lucknow and she gives a broad smile and says, "I like everything about Lucknow. Who doesn't like this city? I think there's a different air about this place. I am here for an exhibition and I love the craftsmanship of Lucknow's kaarigars. There's nothing more delicate than chikan embroidery, it's so classy and beautiful. I went to Chowk the day before and I was amazed at the work these people there do. What finesse in their handwork. I also had the chaat there at Chowk and this fantastic sweet makkhan malai. It's so unique to Lucknow."
 The actress, who visited Varanasi recently with friend  , couldn't stop praising that city too. "Banaras is another great place. It's so fascinating. You see foreigners come there from all around the world and then when you go there and you see the beauty, you understand why they flock to Varanasi. The place is magical. We did the Ganga aarti and hogged on food there, like I'm doing here. Lucknow has its own charm and Banaras has its own. I loved both the places," she says. 
 Being a popular actor in the 90s we wonder if Padmini misses being on screen? "I don't miss acting because I do films off and on," says Padmini, who's starred in super hit films in the 80s and 90s, adding, "The fact that today people still remember me for the films I've done, makes me proud of my work. Otherwise people do films and they are forgotten after some time. Fortunately for me, my characters like Manorama of ' ', Maya of 'Woh Saat Din' and others, are etched in people's mind. So I think that's something that really heartens me and I cherish that." Padmini is now doing a film in Marathi and is in talks for a Hindi and a Bengali film. 
 Talking about Bollywood, Padmini says that things have changed a lot in the working style of Bollywood since the time she worked as a heroine. "Today's generations doesn't know the kind of work we did and how we did. Things were difficult and very different for us at that time. We didn't have such fancy vanity vans back then and we juggled between film shoots. Even the working conditions weren't as professional as they are now. But now, things, trends, mindsets have changed a lot. Things are a lot easier for the younger generation. So I guess we just have to cherish these moments and keep them with us and be happy about them. I am very happy with the fact that I was a leading actress then, than today. We worked night and day and in such harsh conditions. Things are much easier for actors of today," says Padmini. 
 
  
  Padmini Kolhapure in Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 The actress, who began her career as a child artist with ' ' says acting is her first love, and one which she would never give up. "I restarted my acting career 10 years back and have been in front of the camera off and on. It's like they say, a swimmer is always a swimmer and an actor is always an actor. There's nothing else I love more than acting. I am loving this phase of my acting career where I do not have to rush about things and I can take acting assignments at leisure. There's no pressure as such. I do what I like. I don't have to say yes to every film offered to me. Bollywood is in such an interesting phase these days that the work that is being offered is really exciting," says Padmini, who's niece   is keenly following in her footsteps. "A lot of people think that Shraddha is my daughter because my sister Shivangi, who's Shraddha's mother, keeps to herself," says Padmini, adding, "People don’t really know Shivangi too much because she's an introvert and doesn't go out too much. So people think that Shraddha is my daughter and she also looks like me. But Shraddha is actually a carbon copy of me in a lot of ways. She has the spunk and that spark which people said I have in me," says Padmini with evident pride. 
  And do the aunt and the niece discuss films? "Very often, in fact," says Padmini. "We do discuss her films and I give her advice when she asks for one. But then I believe in the adage that let the child fly and find her own way. If she feels she's stuck, she does come to me and I do tell her how to go about things. Otherwise she's a very smart girl and is doing a very good job in her films," adds Padmini. 
 — Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com
 
 
