JAIPUR: If you are politically connected you can break law with immunity and the administration will look the other way. BJP’s former MLA from Kapasan, Badri Lal Jat's brothers Govardhan Jat and   have been accused of holding child marriages on April 19 (Akshaya Tritiya). Despite the incident being the talk of the town, the state government and district administration are feigning ignorant of the incident.

 Badrilal Jat has represented the   assembly seat from 2003-2008 and he is now the president of the powerful Chittorgarh- Pratapgarh Cooperative Diary Federation. His elder brother Govardhan Jat is an ASI with the Rajasthan police and his elder son's wife, Leela Chaudhary is the Zila Pramukh of  .
 
 His second son is only 19-year-old; a class IX drops out from a private school in Chittorgarh while Bherulal Jat is the cousin brother of former MLA. His son is a Class IX student at a private school in the city. Both minors got married to the daughters a government school teacher at Bhatkhedi village under Rashmi block on April 19.
 
 When asked about the marriage ceremony, Badrilal Jat’s elder brother Rattanlal Jat denying the incident said “some people are spreading this news to defame us. When pointed out about the marriage invitation card and photos, he claimed it as ‘manufactured’.
 
 When asked about the incident SDO Rashmi, Pankaj Sharma from where the minor girls’ family belongs told TOI over phone that, “I have also heard about it. When asked why he had not taken any action against the violators of the law, he said, “I have not received any complaint from any quarters.” He then washed his hands of the responsibility by saying that in any case the grooms family belong to another sub division. He also gave the advice that “if you have any proofs of the incident bring it to the notice of the district collector.”
 
 When asked about the same to the deputy director Women and Child Development Shanta Meghwal who is the nodal officer directly dealing with the issue, also said “I have joined only on April 9. When pointed out that the incident occurred on Akshaya Tritiya on April 19 she said, “I am not aware of it and had to check with my office.” 
 
 
