PANAJI: In a major blow to the   companies in the state, the high court of Bombay at Goa on Friday set aside the state government’s decision to permit transportation of royalty-paid iron ore after March 15 and ruled that excavations could not have continued “even for a second” after the   cancelled 88 mining leases on February 7 and were “illegal”.

 Castigating the state government for disregarding the “interest of average Goans and the state’s ecology”, the two-judge bench of justices N M Jamdar and Prithviraj K Chavan said in their 115-page order: “Undue focus was given on receipt of royalty, which was pittance compared to what was lost by the state.”
 
 The court expressed surprise at the “vehemence” at which the state “asserted the rights of the mining lease holders” and said: “The state must keep in mind that it acts as a trustee for the people for the natural resources. In discharge of this duty, it has to keep the interest of the citizens at heart as the first priority.”
 
 The bench also said that it got “a feeling” that the dividing line between the state government and the mining lease holders was blurred and also noted that they had to “literally push” the state government to alleviate the suffering of the “innocent mining affected”.
 
 “This sharp contrast in the state response in respect of these two ends of mining spectrum, the mining affected and the mining beneficiaries, is too stark for us not to notice. We write it here because it pains our conscience,” the bench said in its order.
 
 
 
 
 “Once the Supreme Court pronounced that mining leases were granted in violation of its earlier binding decision, and there was no environmental clearance, the excavation could not in law, continue even for a second,” the court said.
 
 The HC also directed the state government to take a decision within four weeks regarding its ownership rights as a custodian of the mineral resources. The court also directed the state to decide on its powers to take possession, sell and dispose of the ore and to utilise the proceeds for public purpose.
 
 The Supreme Court, while cancelling the leases on February 7, had given time to mining lease holders to “manage their affairs” and to continue mining operations till March 15.
 
 “If the interpretation of the state and respondents (mining lease holders and traders) is accepted that full-fledged mining excavation was permitted till March 15, then where is the time left to manage affairs thereafter,” the bench questioned.
 
 The order also said that if the state had any doubt, the appropriate course of action would have been to move the Supreme Court for a clarification.
 
 While interpreting the Supreme Court order, the state government gave full liberty to the lease holders to carry out excavation or ore till March 15 and pay royalty on it and transport it after March 16. The decision to allow ore transportation was taken by the state government on March 21.
 
 The HC held that the liberty granted to carry out mining operations till March 15 was just a component of larger indulgence given by the SC to arrange the affairs within five weeks and was not a charter to continue excavation as if nothing was wrong.
 
 “The state should have issued a mandate that though the Supreme Court had used the word mining operations, it is only for winding up and not for full-fledged mining activity, because basically such activity was illegal. The state while taking the impugned decision simply omitted crucial words from the permission granted by the Supreme Court and focused only on the rights of the mining lease holders, readily relinquishing its own claim over the ore,” the bench said.
 
