NEW DELHI: Taking their agitation out of the campus, students of   (JNU) on Tuesday marched to the HRD ministry calling for the ouster of   M Jagadesh Kumar.   Students’ Union also submitted a “chargesheet” of the VC to MHRD demanding his  . A delegation of students has also sought an appointment from the HRD minister. Raising the slogans of #NotmyVC, a play on the anti-Donald Trump protests in the US, students blamed the VC for “destroying the culture of JNU” and attempted to break the barricades at Shastri Bhawan only to be pushed back by police.

 The strike continued in the campus for the second straight week with students demanding to “save the inclusive democratic ethos of the university.” Shouting “VC Hatao, JNU Bachao,” students, teachers and others participating in the march showed anger “against trampling of socially inclusive and democratic policies and practices of JNU.”
 
 “The VC has been trying his best to destroy JNU and its inclusive character through his various anti-student policies for the last two years. His policies — like massive seat cut in research, decimation of reservations and deprivation points, scrapping of GSCASH, bid to dismantle integrated BA-MA and integrated MPhil-PhD, tampering of faculty selection committees and rules for partisan appointments, and arbitrary regimentation in the name of compulsory attendance — are systematically destroying JNU,” said a JNUSU statement.
 
 Students also blamed the administration for failing to discuss compulsory attendance in the academic council (AC) meeting. The administration, however, denied the charge and said that the matter was discussed and passed as per rules. It also presented UGC and   rules to point out that attendance is compulsory for students.
 
 “In JNU, students over-attend classes for the love to engage with debate and learning. Students have categorically asserted that they are not fighting for the right to not attend classes but for their right to learn without pointless and arbitrary regimentation,” the JNUSU statement said.
 
 
