JAIPUR: Governor   underwent a test for swine flu twice in 12 hours on Sunday only to receive contradictory reports. Irked by the SMS Hospital report, which claimed he had swine flu and which was contradictory to the report provided by a   in Delhi which said he was suffering from a common cold, Singh demanded an inquiry into SMS Hospital’s report.

 
 SMS Hospital then conducted a retest and Kalyan Singh again tested positive for swine flu. Three tests later, state health minister Kalicharan Saraf said, “I do not know about the report issued by the private hospital. We have conducted a retest here and again he tested positive. We have called for the report given by the private hospital.”
  
  
 
 
  The governor’s demand for a probe raised questions about the facilities at the state’s biggest government hospital. “On the direction of the governor, we have constituted a three-member high-level committee headed by   principal secretary Anand Kumar, SMS Medical College principal Dr U S Agarwal and SMS Hospital’s microbiology department head Dr R K Maheshwari. The committee will study the reports,” Saraf said. The panel will present its report in three days.
 
 
 An   had undergone a swine flu test at SMS Hospital on Sunday afternoon, the report of which was made available at around 4 pm. As the report said he had tested positive, he was rushed to a private hospital in New Delhi where he tested negative.
 
 
 With two contradictory reports in hand, Singh had demanded an inquiry by the state government into the matter. An official release issued by Raj Bhavan said the governor was completely fine. He is in Delhi and will go to Aligarh on March 6 to attend his granddaughter’s wedding on March 7. The private hospital has permitted Singh to go home. “Taking the report issued by the SMS Hospital seriously, a high-level inquiry should be conducted to see how and why did this happen,” the statement read.
 
 
 The issue was also raised on Monday in the state assembly by   Govind Singh Dotasara. He asked Saraf to clarify whether the governor had swine flu or not. The health minister replied that he had not received any test report from the private hospital in Delhi but had constituted a high-level committee to look into the matter.
 
