CHANDIGARH: City-based industrialists have lauded the decision of the   (JERC) to reduce power rate for the industry. In an attempt to promote industrial consumer category, especially small scale, the commission in its recent tariff order decreased the energy charges by 7%. The decision was taken following representations by different industrial bodies to the commission and the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).

 
  
 
 For the ongoing financial year, the commission had brought down power rates of large supply from Rs 5.65 per unit to Rs 5 per unit, while for consumers of medium supply, the rate has been reduced from Rs 5.35 per unit to Rs 4.70 per unit. For small scale industries, the rate has been slashed from Rs 5.30 to Rs 4.80 per unit. The new rates came into effect from April 1. The commission also decreased energy charges being paid by the bulk supply consumer category.
 
 With the reduction in rates, power in Chandigarh has become cheaper for industry as compared to residential and commercial categories.
 
 President of   (IAC) YK Mahajan said the reduction of power rates had come as major relief to the industrialists. “The power rates are at par with Punjab. Earlier, the rates in Chandigarh were higher than those in the neighbouring state of Punjab,” he added. 
 
 The industrialists have also hailed the commission’s decision to put a cap on fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) charge to be levied by the UT electricity department.
 
 The FPPCA charge for a quarter has been limited to 10% of the approved existing average billing rate of the consumer category. At present, there is no limit on amount to be recovered and the consumers are being charged upto 30% of the existing average billing rate. The FPPCA charge is the difference between per unit actual cost of power purchase and per unit approved cost of power purchase. It is a charge added on per unit basis to each power bill over and above the regular tariff. The UT electricity department generates bimonthly bills for domestic customers. The charges are revised after every quarter.
 
 Naveen Manglani, president of   (CCI), said the decision to put a cap was a welcome move. “Earlier, there was wide variation in FPPCA charged levied on consumers.” It was Manglani who had taken up the issue with the PMO.
 
 TOI regularly highlighted the issue of high power rates levied on industries. According to data available with city-based industrial associations, around 200 units have shifted out of Chandigarh last year due to high power rates and other issues. The industrialists have been reeling under high power rate as compared to Punjab. An industrial unit in the city shells out around Rs 10 per unit, including other charges. The lower tariff will not only help industrialists to bring down their power cost but also help the UT administration to achieve the target of producing solar power set by the Central government.
 
 
