ALWAR: The   on Friday arrested 62-year-old man who had hacked his nephew’s 32-year-old wife going to work against 'family values,' in   area of thecity.

 The accused, identified as  , was arrested by the police while he was trying to flee from the city. The accused reportedly told cops in the interrogation that he had sold his first wife to somebody in   in Haryana. The police, however, said that they have not been able to corroborate thisclaim yet.
 
 The accused, told cops that he was slighted by Usha Devi who defiedhisdiktat and continued to work outside. “Mam Raj had asked Usha Devi on many occasions to quit her job as it went against family values,” theofficial said.
 
 Usha and her husband, Mukesh Rajput, worked hard to provide education to their two kids. “The family’s financial condition was bad. Hence, both Mukesh and Usha worked to give their children good education,” said their neighbour Gajendra Singh.
 
 The accused hauled out his sharped sword from his room, and hacked Usha Devi, a mother of two, to death in full public view. “Shewas on her wayto work on Thursday morning when she was waylaid near Khatu Shyam Temple Road by the accused who repeatedly attacked her, she was killed on the spot,” the official informed TOI.
 
 The accused married twice but lefthiswives, for past many years he had been living alone. “On numerousoccasions he visited his nephew Mukesh and reprimanded him for allowing hiswifetowork in a factory. He thoughtthat Usha had compromised the dignity and honour of the family,” the official told TOI.
 
 According to Shanjahnpur police station house officer (SHO) Surendra Malik, Mam Raj had askedthe victim on manyoccasions toquither job as it went againstfamily values.
 
 According to Alwar police, Mukesh supported his wife and askedhisuncle not meddle in their affairs. “Last time, when Mam Raj created a ruckus at the factory, Mukesh came to the spot and forced his uncle to go away,” theofficial said.
 
 The police have arrested the accused under multiple charges including murder and currently interrogating him.
 
