HYDERABAD: The Janata Dal (Secular) joining hands with Congress to form the next government in Karnataka has come as a bit of a shocker for the ruling TRS in Telangana.

 
 This, because, TRS president and chief minister   has embarked upon a mission of bringing together regional parties to form a coalition of non-Congress and non-BJP parties.
 
 KCR had flown to Bengaluru and met former Prime Minister, JD(S) leader   and his son, former CM   and spoken out against the ‘two systems’ – Congress and BJP – being responsible for the ills in India and lack of development. The results of Karnataka polls were not as anticipated by TRS as JD(S) came third with BJP in the first place and Congress in the second position. KCR is maintaining a stoic silence on the developments in Karnataka. His son and IT minister KT R also did not comment.
 
 In a quick turn of events by Tuesday afternoon, the Congress offered the CM’s post to Kumaraswamy and he accepted to form a government with Congress’s support. “One thing has become clear: Congress is not in a position to lead the nation. The results in Karnataka have shown that its popularity is on the wane and it is not people’s choice. This is what TRS also believes and has said so,” TRS MP B Vinod Kumar told TOI. In the same breath, Vinod said that the Karnataka result had also established the fact that BJP cannot assume that it’s the “ultimate” choice. “This is what we have been saying. The country is disillusioned with both BJP and Congress,” Vinod explained.
 
 Days after KCR had met TMC chief and West Bengal CM  , she had commented that the Congress should not be shunned in their bid to bring together anti-BJP parties on to a single platform. “The Congress can be associated but it should not play the big brother and try to dominate the coalition,” she had said. KCR had said that what he proposed was a ‘national agenda’ which any party could adopt in the interest of farmers and the nation’s development. While KCR’s friends are not shying away from Congress, he himself has high stakes as he sees Congress as his main rival in Telangana.
 
