CHENNAI: TOI exclusive on non-transparent tender process to procure chassis for 2,000 new government buses at a cost of Rs 300 crore had a political echo on Saturday with DMK working president MK   demanding vigilance probe into the issue. Citing TOI's report, he said that government was burdening people with fare hike, while allowing irregularities in multi-crore procurement. 

 The Tamil Nadu Transparency Act, 1988, mandates invitation to all the tenderers while opening the bids, a leading automobile manufacturer has filed a complaint with the state transport department that neither the bids were opened in the presence of other participants not the outcome details were shared. 
 
 
  
 
 Besides this, no pre-bid meeting was conducted giving the bidders to get their doubts clarified. Referring to this, Stalin said that these violations indicate that the AIADMK-led state government can bend any rule to receive kickbacks. 
 
 "It is shocking to know how the transport secretary PWC Davidar and chief secretary   approved such gross violations in tender rules," he added. 
 
 Two new conditions were added ten days prior to the deadline for submitting the bids through a corrigendum and this received opposition from many interested bidders. Some cried foul and alleged that the changes were biased towards a specific automobile manufacturer. 
 
 Suspecting acceptance of bribes in exchange for the contract, Stalin said that it is now evident that corrupt practices like these are the actual reason for increase in bus ticket fares. He condemned the state government for diverting public funds to private firms through unfair means and shifting the financial burden on the people by increasing bus fare up to 100 %. 
 
 "The   government has ignored news about settling the pending relief amount for people who died or got injured in accidents involving government buses and has rather focused on buying inferior quality buses from private firms after receiving bribes," he said. 
 
 So, he has urged the state vigilance commissioner and directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption to immediately conduct a thorough probe regarding alleged violations in tender norms set for purchasing bus chassis failing which DMK will not hesitate to take the take route. 
 
 The firm which raised the issue has requested the transport department to scrap the order and issue a re-tender notice. 
 
 The government in response has rejected all the allegations in this regard and has reiterated that changes made in the tender specifications were well within the provisions in the said Act. 
 
 
