Vijayawada: The Vijayawada fire department officials have alleged that they lack the necessary equipment and the expertise to tackle with forest fires in Vijayawada. The District Fire Officer (DFO), D Niranjan Reddy said, “With the conventional firefighting equipment that we have as off now, it is not possible to contain forest fires.” This revelation comes just after a massive fire broke in Tamil Nadu’s Kurangani Hills, which claimed 11 lives.  It has been noted that in recent times, Vijayawada has seen a hike in the number of people going for adventure sports, with trekking activities being conducted on regular basis. The Mulapadu and Kondapalli forest are witnessing maximum footfall by trekkers, especially on weekends and holidays. But in the wake of TN’s incident, there is an urgent need to update the existing equipment and safety mechanisms to tackle such incidents if they happen in future.  “In Vijayawada, a large number of houses are located on the hill slopes where people have to take a lot of preventive measures to ensure their safety. It will be challenging for us with the kind of manpower and equipment we have,” Reddy said.  “In order to deal with such untoward incidents, it is necessary to have aerial machines and fire beaters to tackle forest fires, particularly on the hills,” Reddy added. Around 10 days ago, the forest officials rescued two students who had gone trekking to Mulapadu forest. Apparently having gone without any prior information, training or any useful types of equipment, they both found themselves stuck in the forest only to be rescued by forest officials later. Forest range officer R V Prasad said, “Many adventure clubs conduct trekking activities without proper permissions from the forest department but now we have asked everyone to obtain permission prior to their trips.”  According to Prasad, “Forest areas in Vijayawada are comparatively less dense than those in TN and hence, if any such situation arises in future, the fire will spread slowly. But despite this, we have we have started conducting awareness camps in the villages to educate people regarding Do’s and Dont’s during forest fires, especially in summer.” Founder of Vijayawada Adventure Club (VAC), Suresh Kaluva said, “We have been taking every precaution while organising treks and will make sure of doing it right so in the future as well. We strictly do not allow our members to smoke during the treks and we always carry fire extinguishers with us to ensure to ensure that nothing goes wrong from our side. If we have to face the fire from external sources, our organisers are trained in taking quick measures to reach to safety. Moreover, we don’t organise treks during summer as there are more chances of forest fires during this time,” he added.