LUDHIANA: All Indian students will now have to clear   ( ), if they want to pursue medical courses abroad.

 Earlier, the students who aspired to go abroad, were required to appear only for the Foreign Medical Graduates Exam (FMGE) to practice outside the country. But now, they will have to clear the NEET exam as well, if they want to leave their country and study abroad.
 
 On Tuesday, the ministry of health and family welfare approved the proposal put forward by   (MCI) and amended India’s Screening Test Regulations (2002).
 
 Health ministry said that any Indian citizen or Indian citizen overseas, who wants to obtain a primary medical qualification, from any medical university outside India on or after May 2018 shall now have to compulsorily clear NEET exam.
 
 “This is because medical institutions of foreign countries admit Indian students without proper assessment or screening of the students’ academic ability to cope up with the medical education. As a result, many students fail to qualify the screening test,” said the ministry in a speech.
 
 The proposal was put forward to the government by the MCI as the medical institutions and universities of the foreign countries admit Indian students without proper screening of students which enables them to cope up with medical education with that many students fail to qualify the screening test.
 
 “Candidates, who have passed Class XII from open schools or as private candidates, will not be eligible to appear in NEET-UG,” the notification said. Now, those aspiring to study medicine outside India, will be given a no objection certificate ( ) only if they clear NEET.
 
 Reactions:-
 
 It is really easy, simple and short to get a medical degree from abroad. I personally feel that by making it compulsory to clear NEET exam, the government has taken a right decision. It would be equal and fair for everyone
 
 Upneet Kaur | Student
 
 “I think the government has taken a right decision by making NEET exam mandatory as now only top 50% will have the opportunity to go and study abroad.”
 
  | Student
 
 “I will have to waste two years of my life preparing for the exam. I do not think this is a fair decision by the government.”
 
 Chanchal Rathore | Student
 
 
