The newly inaugurated   Metro station is gaining popularity among students, and the reason is not just the enhanced connectivity to the university. A mural representing the evolution of   through ages has been painted at the Metro station, and is grabbing commuters' attention. The mural represents the history of the 98-year-old university and has been painted by Shah Abul Faiz, associate professor at the department of Fine Arts of the university, along with the help of his students. We met him at the Metro station where he told us, "The proposal came from the   Rail Corporation (DMRC) when our administration enquired if anything representing the university could be displayed at the station, since it was named after the university. The   came up with the idea of having a mural in the premises as there are many murals in other Metro stations as well. Talat Ahmad, the Vice-Chancellor of the university, wanted me to represent Jamia through the mural and that’s how the work began."
 
  
  Layouts that were made before the painting was finalised (BCCL/Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 The assistant professor along with the team of his students from the department took around 25 days to prepare the masterpiece. And he said that it wasn’t an easy task. "The first miniature that I presented was obviously not selected. I had presented five layouts to the administration and since it is a piece of art, some people liked it, and some did not. So finally, we decided to take elements from all the layouts. The mural not only shows the history of Jamia, but it also tries to capture the mood of the university and its students. The university was established in 1920 and the mural has been created in such a way that it shows the history as well as the current structural changes that have come up on the campus. From Jamia’s school, which was the first construction, to the latest developments that have taken place in the administration block of the campus, all of it also been added in the mural. From 1920, we have also taken the Jamia logo and tarana (one of the lines from Jamia’s anthem) to go with the mural," he added. 
 
  
  Shah Abul Faiz, who has also been a student at the university (BCCL/Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 While the idea behind the mural was Abul Faiz’s, his students have helped him, too. Narendra Kumar, a second-year student from the Fine Arts department, said, "We helped our professor in making the base of the mural. If there was any other requirement, we would happily help him."
 Hem Sagar, another second-year student from the same department, adds, "Our family is proud of this opportunity that has been given to us by our professor. Our friends also told us that we should have informed them earlier about this project so that they could have also helped."
  
  
 
 
 While the students were given a nominal amount by the DMRC for the artwork, the professor said he didn’t charge anything for it. "I have been a student of Jamia, and we all are proud of our university. When the university was established, the staff worked at `1, so I took inspiration from that and made this mural for free. It is the university that we love,” the professor added. 
 
 
  
 
