CHENNAI: Award selections have often come under a cloud on charges that they are 'bought' by the rich and the mighty.   leader Thol Thirumavalavan is set to rewrite the script by giving two awards to politicians as a probable prelude to poll pacts for the 2019 Lok Sabha and likely assembly elections. 

 With a view to achieving this goal, Thirumavalavan has chosen   chief Thirunavukkarasar and Kerala chief minister Pinarayi K Vijayan for the annual awards instituted by his party and named after Kamaraj and Ambedkar. The inference is that all is not well in the DMK front. Thirumavalavan could be apprehensive that - going by the experience in the 2016 assembly election - the DMK may not be keen on retaining his party in the front. He is seeking to firm up his position by hanging on to the Congress and the CPM. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee's telephonic conversation with DMK working president M K Stalin and Telangana chief minister  's visit to the DMK leader's house have unsettled the Congress and other allies as both the CMs are proponents of a third/federal front. Neither Rao nor Stalin talked about a possible alliance though.
 
 Thirumavalavan on Saturday announced the recipients of the party's annual awards. He said Vijayan had accepted his invitation to be in Chennai for receiving the honour on May 15. Vijayan will be conferred Ambedkar award for appointing non-brahmins as archakas in temples under the Travancore Devaswom Board, while Thirunavukkarasar is being feted for nominating three dalit leaders as district Congress presidents.
 
 Thirumavalavan, at present an ally of the DMK, had earlier this week called on Congress president Rahul Gandhi and CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury to stress the need for a Congress-Left front to take on the BJP. The meetings surprised the DMK leadership as it came through without their knowledge.
 
 "I will also meet Rao, if needed, to request him not to have an alliance without Congress," Thirumavalavan told TOI. "You cannot have a secular front without Congress. The combination should have constituents like the DMK, Left parties and the VCK. I don't think even the DMK will take a decision without the Congress. The CPM has to take the initiative of bringing together the secular and democratic forces, including the Congress," he said. His view is that the regional parties are in no position to unseat the Congress or the BJP.
 
 With the DMK and the AIADMK shutting doors on the VCK, the party had chosen to join People's Welfare Front in the 2016 assembly elections. None of the constituents of the front could win a seat and the front fell apart like a pack of cards in no time. Analysts felt the VCK votes did not transfer to other parties and in many constituencies non-dalit votes got consolidated against the front owing to the VCK's presence in it. Since this is a view that the DMK too held in the run up to the 2016 polls, the VCK's concerns are palpable.
 
 
