BENGALURU: Setting aside the convention of appointing the seniormost MLA as pro tem speaker of the legislative assembly, the Raj Bhavan chose to name   for the post, evoking harsh criticism from the   and JD(S).

 
 The opposition parties fear that Bopaiah was picked, given his antecedents in handling trust votes in a controversial manner to benefit BJP.
 
 Bopaiah was sworn in within hours of the   passing an interim order that a pro tem speaker should preside over the trust vote the BJP government takes at 4pm Saturday.
 
 The five-term lawmaker representing Virajpet in Madikeri district will administer oath to the newly elected 221 MLAs, and later conduct the trust vote to be moved by CM B S   on the floor of the assembly at 4pm.
 
 However, this is perhaps the first time in Karnataka’s legislative history that a protem speaker will oversee a trust vote. The function of a pro tem speaker is to administer oath to MLAs and conduct the election of the speaker.
 
 Describing Bopaiah as “dented and tainted”, the Congress also alleged that he had broken rules in the past to help Yeddyurappa. The move was condemned by the Congress, which said it was another instance of governor Vajubhai R Vala’s “encounter of the Constitution”, as he had ignored the seniormost eight-term MLA, R V Deshpande.
 
 In Hyderabad, Deshpande said it was clear that rules were being subverted.
 
 The BJP, however, defended the appointment, saying Bopaiah was a pro tem speaker in 2008. The saffron party described the Congress opposition to Bopaiah as a “hoax objection”. “K G Bopaiah was appointed pro tem speaker even in 2008 by the then governor. That time Bopaiah was 10 years younger than what he is today. The Congress is thus raising hoax objection. The appointment of Bopaiah Ji is as per rules and regulations,” tweeted Union minister and BJP leader Prakash Javadekar.
 
 Bopaiah was also speaker during the BJP’s tenure from 2009 to 2013. He succeeded Jagadish Shettar after the latter was inducted into the cabinet in 2009.
 
 He also presided over a controversial trust vote taken by Yeddyurappa in October 2010, after some BJP MLAs revolted against him. Bopaiah had then ordered the disqualification of 11 BJP and five Independent MLAs, and his decision was upheld by the Karnataka high court. Yeddyurappa won the trust vote amid chaos in the assembly.
 
 
  
  
 
 However, the Supreme Court in 2011 quashed it, saying the disqualification “did not meet the twin tests of natural justice and fair play”. The bench said: “The disqualified members could not participate, and in their absence, Yeddyurappa was able to prove his majority in the House. Unless it was to ensure that the trust vote did not go against the chief minister, there was no conceivable reason for the speaker to have taken up the disqualification application in such a great hurry.”
 
