JAISALMER: Union MoS Arjun   lambasting   president Rahul Gandhi said the latter because of his fear and stubbornness is not allowing parliament to function. He said Gandhi is not ready to get   scam 2011 investigated as many scandals of his party will come to fore.   is ready to discuss on every subject related to PNB scam as per rule and even ready to bring lokayukta bill as per demand of Anna Hazare to end corruption, in the house.

 He said during his visit to Jaisalmer on Tuesday. He said there is rule to discuss on grants in second part of budget session and there are tradition too but Cong is stubborn to first discuss on PNB scam. We have agreed to it and under section 193 notice has been given by Cong's   and Premchand of RSP and we agreed to it in the meantime Rahul after returning from abroad objecting on this demanded to hold discussion on PNB 2014 instead of on 2011. When we asked when scam took place on 2011 then why discussion from 2014 but Rahul is adamant that discussion should be of PNB 2014 and not allowing house to function.
 
 On Rahul not having information about NCC, Meghwal said Rahul does not know about NCC, which is quite unfortunate. In regard to sit in by hazare, he said Hazare is social activist and earlier too, he had sit on Dharna. He said govt of india is talking about lokayukta bill to end corruption in the country and is ready to table in the house.
 
 Discussing on dry port, he said there is plan to bring water of sea from Rann of Kutch to Sanchore in Jalore and Bakhasar in Barmer through canal. A project of rs 10000 crore has been made. Port will be made near Sanchore and talks are in with the   Govt. With development of port in this area there will be industrial development and navigation will take place till Kandla through boats. If saline water comes from sea then it will be sweetened through Israel technique which will solve the water problem.
 
 In regard to BDP works he said the rule to spend money within 10kms in this scheme is being changed. Earlier the amount was spent in the entire district and at few places the funds were misused after which rule was brought to use within 10 kms so that areas adjoining border are developed. Now union home minister has given approval for changing the rule and directions have been given to union MoS home to start the process.
 
 Prior to this, Addressing BJP meeting, he said that the road of success of BJP in 2019 election will be from Rajasthan therefore before the asembly elections which is in the end of this year, the state government development works and public welfare schemes should be told to people which will ensure victory and also tell people about PM's development model which will set up india as new power.
 
 
