NAGPUR:   (Std IX, St Xavier’s, Hiwri Nagar) and Harsh Bhange (Std VII, Yashoda High School) won the senior and junior category contest respectively at the Times NIE Colour Splash 2018 held at St John’s Public School, Mohan Nagar, recently.

 Some 35 schools sent over 150 students to take part in the contest. The contest was held for Standards V-VII (junior section) drawing on the topic ‘Robots as teachers’. For senior category, which constituted students from Std VIII-IX, the topic was ‘Green metro’. The competition started at 10.30am, with students pondering over several ideas before putting their ideas to paper.
 
 The occasion was graced by noted artist Shagufta Mehndi. She emphasized on the need to focus on developing the creative side of students in this ever competitive world, where academics has the maximum focus. She felt overwhelmed to see the students show their creativity in very interesting ways.
 
 Before the winners were announced, the students lapped up several impromptu performances by students, ranging from English and Hindi songs to jokes and puzzles, which kept everyone riveted.
 
 The winner in the senior section was Mayank Kunjekar, a class IX student of St Xavier’s, Hiwri Nagar. He said, “The topic given was innovative and gave us nice experience, which helped me gain knowledge through speechless presentation to express my views.”
 
 The winner of junior section was Harsh Bhange, a student of Std VII, Yashoda High School. Calling the competition tough, he said, “The contest by Times-NIE was tough as my topic was ‘Robots as teachers’. I would really like to thank Times-NIE for giving such a great opportunity to unlock my talent.”
 
 The ‘best preference winner’, Sanika Palsapure, Std VII student of CPS-KR, was ecstatic. She said, “The event was a blast and I had a wonderful experience. I was on cloud nine when my name was called out for the best preference winner, the new category. However, I feel the time limit should have been a little longer.”
 
 Rajesh Telrandhe, teacher of CPS-Wardhaman Nagar, said, “The competition was well organized and many schools participated. We could see many young artists deeply engrossed in trying to paint something new and express their emotions.”
 
 Jayshree Tiwari, computer teacher at  , said that the participants enjoyed new themes, which was a challenge to their minds, “The topic is for the future generation. We enjoyed it to the fullest.” 
 
 
