PATNA: It was the night of December 31, 2005, when the life of  , who was 18 years at the time, changed horribly. His mother, two sisters and three brothers were burnt alive inside their hut at Rampur Shyamchand village, in   district’s Raghopur police station area, over the theft of a buffalo.

 
 More than 12 years after the gruesome killings, President Ram Nath Kovind rejected on Tuesday the mercy petition of  , one of the main accused convicted in the case.
 
 His brother Bipat Rai’s mercy petition is also pending before Kovind. Another accused, Baccha Rai, is serving a life term in the case. Rai’s death sentence was upheld by the Supreme Court in 2013.
 
 Pankaj’s mother  , sisters Neelam (9), Poonam (8) and brothers Suraj (6), Anil (5) and Rajesh (3) were fast asleep when Jagat, Bipat and others poured kerosene on the hut and burned them alive. “We will celebrate the day Jagat is hanged. I was in Delhi that fateful night. My father Vijendra Mahto narrated the whole incident to me after I returned,” he said, adding Jagat and Bipat had chopped off his mother’s hand when she tried to protect her kids. “Neelam had tried to escape but Bipat threw her into the burning hut,” Pankaj, now 30, told TOI over the phone on Thursday.
 
 He added that 12 days prior to the incident their only buffalo had been stolen and later recovered from Tesaria, in Bidupur police station area.
 
 “My father had lodged an FIR against Jagat, Bipat and 10 others in connection with the theft. After the buffalo was found, the accused threatened my father with dire consequences if the FIR was not withdrawn. The local panchayat had asked the accused to pay Rs 1,500 to my father,” Pankaj said.
 
 He added his father survived as he was sleeping outside the hut. “He, however, succumbed to his burn injuries a year after the incident,” Pankaj said, adding a sum of Rs 3 lakh, which he had received from different sources after the incident, had been spent on the treatment of his father. “I had received Rs 50,000 under the Indira Awas Yojana and used the money to construct a house on the same spot where the hut once existed,” Pankaj said.
 
 
