CHANDIGARH: Two   received life imprisonment here on Saturday for killing a Sector-52 man in 2016.  , 18, and Arjun, 20, were held guilty in the court of district and sessions judge  .

 The court imposed a fine of Rs 6,000 on each of the convicts. Rohit’s father, Titu Ram, 45, and his mother,  , 40, were acquitted of the charges. On July 1, 2016, these four people were booked under Sections 323 (punishment for causing hurt voluntarily), 307 (attempt to  ), 302 (punishment for murder), and 34 (common intent in crime) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 Around 10:30pm on June 30, 2016, a quarrel broke out at a house in Sector 52. Auto-rickshaw driver Rahul, who reported it, lived there with his brothers, Krishan and   “Chhoti”. On way to his house on the night of June 30,   say Rohit and his father, Titu Ram, abusing his younger brother Ricky near a park. When Rahul intervened and Krishan also came over to save his brother, Rohit attacked the latter with a knife.
 
 As Krishan fell, Rohit’s brother, Arjun, stabbed Ricky in the waist, which injured him seriously. Titu Ram and Rekha allegedly caught Rahul from behind and he had to block a knife blow with his hand. The accused fled and Rahul moved his brothers to the hospital in a police car. Doctors at the Sector-16 Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) declared Krishan dead. Ricky had taken a serious blow to one of the kidneys.
 
 After listening to the arguments, the court concluded since the role of Rohit’s parents, Titu Ram and Rekha, in causing any injury and they participation in the crime could not be proved, they were acquitted of all the charges but both Rohit and Arjun deserved life imprisonment.
 
 The annual data of National Crime Records Bureau ( ) for last year has ranked the city second among the seven UTs in crime rate. Chandigarh among the UTs had 26.7% violent crimes, which is the second highest, while Delhi topped with 77.5%. The violent crimes include culpable homicide not amounting to murder, rape, kidnapping, robbery, dacoity and arson.
 
 Chandigarh also ranked first in recidivism. Maximum percentage where criminals had relapsed into crime after they were convicted. In 2015, the city was at number three in recidivism, a term used for the criminals who relapse into crime after they have been convicted and punished.
 
 According to the data, the city’s recidivism percentage was 41.8 last year. The UT police arrested 2,822 persons, of which 1,641 were new offenders, one-time convicted offenders were 1,076, as many as 83 were convicted twice before and 22 were convicted thrice by Chandigarh and other courts. Thus, 1,181 of those arrested by the UT police in 2016 were old criminals. 
 
 
