HYDERABAD: Perturbed by severe criticism by both the Telugu states, especially  , for ignoring the them in the Union Budget, the Union home ministry has decided to hold a meeting with the officials of both Telangana and   on February 21.

 Chief secretaries and other secretaries looking into the reorganization of both the states will take part in the meeting. According to the circular issued by the ministry of home affairs, the meeting, to be held at the North Block in New Delhi, will discuss and resolve difficulties and disputes arising out of the implementation of Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act, 2014 and issues relating to implementation of infrastructure projects that were incorporated in Schedule XIII of the Act.
 
 “The meeting is being organized by the Home Affairs ministry in the wake of an uproar by the AP government and displeasure by Telangana government on the Budget allocations. We hope, the Centre may announce time frame on issues pertaining to promises made in the Act," a senior official of Telangana Chief Minister's Office said.
 
 Both the states have been alleging that many promises that were made in the Reorganization Act are still unresolved. There are disputes between the two states over division of electricity employees, assets that were listed in Schedule IX and X and buildings issue. The meeting is likely to discuss handing over of some government buildings to Telangana, which are still in AP’s custody and are lying vacant, including secretariat buildings, after AP shifted its operations to new capital Amaravathi.
 
 Telangana officials said in Schedule XIII of the Act, promises such as a steel plan in   district, AIIMS in Hyderabad, Tribal university, railway coach factory and improve rail connectivity in the state were made. Some issues like road connectivity to backward districts of Telangana, horticulture university and a power plant at NTPC Ramagundem were taken up by the Centre in the past three years. Similarly several promises were incorporated pertaining to AP like examining a railway zone in AP, steel plant in Kadapa district, and a new port at Dugarajapatnam. Apart from the then government's promise on special status, officials say, many of the promises were not resolved.
 
 Since, the meeting is crucial, chief secretary   asked the departments such as finance on pending issues with the centre with respect to Reorganization Act and a meeting is being convened on Saturday.
 
