K Kamalraj, the 19-year-old athlete from Coimbatore has made the country proud yet again by winning a silver medal (he recorded 16.23 mts in the   event and missed the gold by 3 cm) in the 8th   held between February 1 and 3 at Tehran, Iran. It was only a couple of months ago that the lanky triple jumper had reached the first spot in Junior Asian rankings and 7th spot in the World Junior ranking. CT spoke to Kamalraj after he reached India.

  “This is the first time I represented India in an international meet and it also happened to be away from India. So, I never expected myself to win a medal and just wanted to give my best. I told myself this could be a good experience for me. But, when I ended up winning the medal, I was delighted,” says an elated Kamalraj.
 
  Talking about the experience of representing India, he says, “I was scared when I landed in Iran, because I have never gone outside India and my English is below average. I had no clue what I was up to. When they handed me my Indian kit, I was thrilled and speechless. At the same time, I felt a lot of pressure on me. I was restless and going crazy till I did my first jump. After that, I relaxed myself as I got used to the conditions and controlled my feelings.”
 
  The event saw India bagging six medals in different events like triple jump, shot put, long jump and 60 mts. “I headed to Trivandrum to train for a few days before the event. We always go to Trivandrum to train before a big event. From there, the whole Indian contingent left for Iran. I put in extra effort during my training as I was going to represent the country for the first time,” he says.
  
  
  About the   he played in, he says, “It was a different feeling altogether. I have never competed in an indoor stadium before and it was a good experience. When I visited it a day before the championship, I realised that my body wasn’t warming up faster compared to the outdoor stadium. So, I started preparing myself for that, because it was a little difficult to breathe normally in the indoor stadium.”
 
  When quizzed how his family reacted to the news, pat came the reply. “My parents aren’t quite aware of these accolades or the championships I take part in, so the response to the news was ordinary. But, they have always supported me by letting me what I wanted to do. I am now training for the   and  , which will be held at Japan and Finland respectively.”
 
  Kamalraj’s coach Mohamed Nizamuddin is a proud man. “It is a great achievement and as I have previously said, I knew he would win a medal in the championship as soon as he was selected for it. It was very unfortunate to lose the gold medal by 3 cm. He was also lucky to train with former Asian medalist  . It always helps when you are training along with an experienced candidate. I am extremely proud of Kamalraj’s achievements. He is a disciplined chap and will go places in the future. If he goes past 16.70 mts, in the upcoming World Championship, he will definitely win a medal. He is a role model for the young triple jumpers who are training with me now.”
 
 
  
 
