Vidya Raju doesn’t scream or run when someone calls out, ‘
 ' Instead, she calmly walks towards the area, finds the snake and catches it. “I am not a  , but a snake rescuer,” the 58-year-old hastens to add. When asked about the number of snakes she has rescued so far, she smiles. “It must have crossed 800,” she says, adding that she has never been in a mood to keep a count or take photographs while rescuing them.

 A Bihar native, Vidya likes to call Kochi her home and had decided to settle here even after her husband, who is in the Navy, retired two years back. “I was so involved in bird watching and nature conservation activities that we decided to settle in Panampilly Nagar.”
 
 Ask her when she began working for nature and she says, “From as long as I can remember. Our generation was always close to nature. My dad was a Central government employee. We spent our childhood in different parts of the country as he was transferred to different places. So we always got opportunities for close encounters with nature. Only, we didn’t have terms like bird watcher and nature lover then,” she says. “Nature was part of our life. We would observe different kinds of birds, plants, leaves, vegetation and trees and also go deep into the woods. As I grew, I eventually got interested in bird watching and became a part of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF),” she says. 
 
  
  
 
 Vidya first tried her hand at snake rescuing at Goa, where her husband was placed in INS Mandovi. “Once while going for bird watching, I met a person who was good at handling reptiles and I was drawn to it. I started following his instructions. Once I started out, I became really excited about it. Though I have not had any formal training, I read a lot about it — the types of snakes, venomous and non-venomous. With experience, I started rescuing snakes,” she says animatedly.
 
 According to her, most of the snakes found in the Kattaribagh area, Kochi, are non-venomous. “Whenever I rescue a snake, I immediately call the Forest department.
 The majority are pythons or rat snakes. You don’t find cobras here. And whenever I catch a snake from a house, I leave it in the greenery. I have come across venomous vipers, which I hand over to the forest department,” she says.
 
 Vidya laughs aloud when asked whether she has ever felt scared while encountering snakes. “Even during my first experience at handling a snake, I didn’t feel an ounce of fear, I remember,”she says. Vidya adds that she has been bitten by snakes during rescue missions several times and was even admitted to ICU once. “That is when the doctors instructed me to take precautions. I don’t touch the venomous ones directly with my hands and use a stick. They too get scared like us humans when touched with a foreign body,” she says.
 
  
  
 
 With experience she can now assess the mood of the snake and also predict its movements. Her fondest memory of snakes is rescuing a bunch of python babies while they were hatching. “Once, near Kattaribagh, somebody found python’s eggs which were about to hatch, and called me. When I went there, I found that the eggs were in the process of hatching. I took them one by one as the baby pythons were coming out of the eggs and placed them in a wooden box as we didn’t want the babies to move around. That was a beautiful experience,” she says.
 
 Vidya gives all credits for her skills to her family, who support her in her adventures. “Whenever I go to rescue a snake, I am accompanied either by my husband or my children. I was brought up without religion and nature is our religion. Post marriage too, I follow the same concept. We are nature lovers in the purest form and I guess that is the way we should be living,” she concludes.
 
 
