NAGPUR: City police, swinging in action in the case of a driver fleeing with a cash of Rs70 lakh belonging to his employer, have sent his photograph across several social networking sites to fetch some information about his whereabouts. The driver, Nilesh  , working for the last four years with coal trader Nitin Upre, fled away with the cash which he was supposed to hand over to his employer’s family on Friday afternoon at   at Model Mill chowk.

 According to police, Pakhale, after collecting the amount from Upre’s office at Ambedkar Square, headed to Godrej Anandam complex from where he fled with the cash on his moped. Pakhale reached his residence at Kharbi with the cash amount, took his wife, two children and sister-in-law along with him and fled away. 
 
 Senior PI Sunil Gangurde of   police station said the complainant reached the police station about one-and-half hour late, making police to lose crucial time. “We, however, immediately circulated the photos of the driver on several social networking groups across the city and other places to get some information about him,” he said, adding that several teams were also formed and sent to various places. 
 
 Police said Pakhale possessed three SIM cards which has been switched off. “The cell phones of his wife and sister-in-law too are switched off as of now. On Saturday, Pakhale switched on his cell phone to contact someone in Delhi after which the cell phone was switched off. Since the last communication, a team of Ganeshpeth police have been camping in Amravati where searches are underway at several places,” police said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Lakadganj police have arrested the domestic help of Thaker family, Ajay Kamath, who is alleged to have fled with cash and valuables worth Rs10 lakh after locking up the matriarch of the family residing at East Wardhaman Nagar. The incident took place around two weeks back.
 
 It’s learned that Kamath committed similar offence while working in Delhi. Police managed to zero down upon Kamath as he had been frequently using the cell phone. He is currently in police custody remand of the Lakadganj police.
 
 
