LUCKNOW: A day after the Varanasi flyover collapse, the   (UPSBCL) and Varanasi traffic police accused each other of being responsible for the tragedy. While   claimed on Wednesday that it had written several letters to traffic police seeking assistance, traffic cops said they provided all necessary help whenever asked and had even lodged an FIR against the UPSBCL project manager.

 
 The traffic police said UPSBCL did not follow safety norms throughout the ongoing construction but the latter accused the police of not supporting them by managing traffic.
 
 
 
 
 UPSBCL MD   said on Wednesday his department had cautioned about the chances of an accident if the encroachments on service lanes below were not removed. He said UPSBCL wrote to the SP (traffic) seeking removal of vendors, fruit-sellers and carts from the service lane but got no help.
 
 “We have copies of letters dated February 21 and March 18 wherein UPSBCL’s project manager sought help from SP (traffic) to remove the congestion below the flyover, but the traffic police didn’t help,” he said, claiming that traffic police even wrote a letter stating that it wouldn’t provide any staff for traffic streamlining beyond February 19, 2018 and shifted the entire responsibility of traffic management on UPSBCL.
 
 SP (traffic) SP   strongly refuted Mittal’s claims and said that traffic police had cleared encroachments below the flyover four times and had pictures of the drive as proof.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Rawat said, “UPSBCL is trying to pass the blame on to us when in fact we wrote several letters to them pointing out their lax safety norms. We repeatedly pointed out that they have not erected protection walls, which could lead to a mishap. Other safety norms were also flouted, like they didn’t deploy volunteers for traffic management and left everything to the traffic police.”
 
 Traffic police even registered an FIR against UPSBCL’s project manager in February 2018, charging him with carelessness and flouting safety norms. The FIR was lodged after UPSBCL’s barricades were removed from the construction site.
 
 Rawat said UPSBCL should have constructed concrete service lanes on both sides of the flyover before beginning construction but didn’t do so despite repeated reminders. The beams that fell off on Tuesday were resting on pillars that had been cast in February, according to Mittal. A flyover pillar needs 28 days for casting and strengthening but the barricades were removed in the same month, said Rawat.
 
