Ludhiana: With the elections to various posts of the District Bar Association ( ) slated to be held on April 6, the candidates are capitalising on the social media for campaigning. Most of the candidates fighting for various posts including president, vice-president, secretary, finance secretary, joint secretary and executive members, are taking full advantage of the social media in campaigning.

 “Though I am on Facebook and Whatsapp, I don’t post frequently but my supporters are very active and keep posting about me. there. This is our effort to seek blessings from the voters as we know that most of the voters are active on social media”, said Parupkar Singh Ghuman, candidate for President post.
 
 “During my tenure I have carried out so many projects. Now that I am seeking a second tenure, I have an agenda including construction of new chambers for lawyers, better parking facilities and others. Since I am part of 35 Whatsapp groups and Facebook pages as well so I put my achievements and agenda there”, said Harjot Singh Harikay, who is contesting elections for post of vice-president. 
 
 “I am contesting elections for the first time and have been using social media for campaigning apart from personally meeting the voters. Social media enables me to target large number of voters without physically meeting them as not everyone is available. I am part of around 20 to 25 Whatsapp groups and on Facebook as well, so I do campaign through the social media”, said Hanish Gupta, who is contesting elections for Joint Secretary post. He added that his main agenda is dignity of the lawyers as he wants executive to respect the genuine requests of the members. 
 
 Voters say they get messages from candidates through social media.“I am part of many Whatsapp groups and am on Facebook as well. I do get messages from candidates on a daily basis wherein they highlight their achievements and put forward their agenda”, said Amit Tandon, senior advocate at district courts. 
 
 Popular messages
 
 Be bright and choose who’s right.
 
 When “I” is replaced by “We” even “illness” becomes “wellness”
 
 Vote for the best, the one better than the rest.
 
 Voters too have made certain demands through social media
 
 
