PANAJI: Excitement marked the start of the season when  , Goa’s Indian Super League franchise, conducted trials for their reserve team under Head of Youth Development Derrick Pereira.

 
  
  
  It was a pathway for youngsters to the senior side and included names like junior international Princeton Rebello, prolific goal scorer Liston Colaco and hard-working midfielder Mohammad Yasir.
  
  The Under-23 side made their debut in the Goa Pro League and finished a respectable fourth in the 12-team league. However, they couldn’t replicate their showing in the   and failed to qualify from Group B with only two wins from 10 games.
  
  “The main aim of the developmental side is to produce good players for the first team. Our preparations were totally based on performance and not results. We wanted them to play our style of football — playing from the back and keep the ball in midfield. Although we lacked finishing at some stages, the entire team has developed and lived up to our expectations,” said coach   on Monday.
  
  FC Goa started with a bang, cruising past   FC 5-1 at home in their first match. But the team never took off from there. FC Goa’s two wins came only against the newcomers Madhya Bharat, who lost all their fixtures.
  
  In their four home matches, FC Goa could garner only two points. That accrued from a goalless draw against FC Kerala and a 1-1 stalemate against Ozone FC, the second team to qualify after group toppers  . A 1-4 defeat at the hands of Fateh Hyderabad FC, their worst a home, followed.
  
  “In most of the matches our going was not so good but we must also understand these boys are young and it is natural. We have trained hard and made a beginning. Most of the teams, especially in the Goa League have learnt our style and to change it next season will be an interesting challenge,” said Clifford.
  
  Liston, Yasir, Jonathan Cardozo and Kinglsee Fernandes have already had first-team experience but other players are not far behind. Midfielders Hayden Fernandes, Leander Fernandes, defender Lalnunsiama and goalkeeper Mohammad Nawaz, all have a pedigree.
  
  “Players were already good when they arrived and they can only get better from here. The main aim next season too will be to produce players,” said Clifford.
