INDORE: A nine-year-old girl was raped in the kiddie zone of a mall in Indore on Thursday, even as children frolicked at gaming consoles a few feet away. The suspect, an employee, was caught and beaten up by the agitating parents.

 The incident has triggered demands for police verification of gaming zone employees across the city.
 
 Witnesses have told police they saw the accused, 19-year-old Arjun Rathore, take away the child to a secluded corner but no one realized the horror until she staggered back into the crowd, screaming. The child had gone to the mall with her mother and younger brother. They are regulars at the gaming zone, and the mother left the kids to play while she stepped outside to do some shopping. An eyewitness told TOI that she saw   take away the girl with him. “I had gone to the play zone along with my family and noticed the girl being led away. After a while, we saw her screaming. She was bleeding. I helped her reach her mother and then went with her to the police station as well,” she said.
 
 The child’s mother was horrified when she was told about the assault. She rushed to the gaming zone where other parents were already agitated. Witnesses and the survivor identified Rathore after which he was beaten up and handed over to police.
 
 “We have sent the girl for a medical examination. The accused, Arjun Rathore, is a resident of Panchsheel Nagar. He has been booked for rape under POCSO and IPC,” ASP   told TOI. A female constable took the child’s statement. Some witnesses also gave theirs. “The accused apparently penetrated her private parts, causing her to bleed,” a police officer said.
 
 The survivor’s family is in shock. “There were so many children around. Should we be scared to take our children to gaming zones now?” said her uncle, adding that when Rathore allegedly lured the girl away, her little brother tried to follow but was told to stay away. Several community leaders and local residents went to the police station at   police station to demand verification of all game zone staff and strict action against the accused.
 
