BENGALURU/HASSAN: Has Janata Dal (S) supremo and former Prime Minister H D   found a successor in   Revanna? Or, is it a desperate move to remove the Appa Makkala Paksha (father-sons party) tag?

 Gowda’s statement on Friday that he’s not interested in contesting the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 and will field grandson Prajwal Revanna has triggered widespread speculation.
 
 Hassan has remained unflinchingly loyal to JD(S) since 1991, barring the 1999 elections where Gowda lost to former minister G Puttaswamy Gowda ( ) by over 1.47 lakh votes soon after he stepped down as Prime Minister. Gowda has won repeatedly from this Vokkaliga community who form over 5 lakh of the 15-lakh voter base. 
 
 “Gowda not only sees Prajwal as his successor but also one who can guard the family’s Hassan fort,’’ party sources said.
 
 But some see the move as an attempt to snub the political aspirations of Prajwal, who has been demanding a ticket for the May 12 assembly elections.
 
 Gowda has been reiterating that only two family members –   and H D Revanna — will contest the polls. Until recently, Anita, Kumaraswamy's wife, had also reportedly expressed her interest in contesting from Channapatna, but her name stopped doing the rounds after Gowda’s statement.
 
 Prajwal did not to react to his grandfather’s aspiration to make him a parliamentarian. He didn’t respond to TOI for his comment. 
 
 “Prajwal is intelligent and honest. He should get elected to the Parliament. Senior members of the party are not interested in contesting for the Lok Sabha. I’m 85 years old and need some rest,’’ said H D Deve Gowda.
 
 JD(S) wants EC action
 
 The JD(S) urged the Election Commission to take action against chairpersons of state-owned boards and corporations who are using their official vehicles even after the model code of conduct came into force. The party has urged the EC to strictly implement the code. The JD(S) requested the EC to issue passes to party’s star campaigners immediately to facilitate their campaign. 
 
 
