Ranodeep Saha
West Bengal University of Technology
 Founder of: Rare Planet
 Average monthly turnover: `7.5 lakh
 Student speaks: I used to adore this girl who loved earthen kulhars. She rejected my proposal, but that made me start painting kulhars. That’s how the journey of Rare Planet began. Gradually, I grew an interest in making earthen handicrafts. I also came up with microwave-proof, handpainted earthen utensils. Now, we even export handicrafts to countries like Australia and New Zealand. I have a set of skilled workers who manufacture these handicrafts. We make two types of products now — basic earthenware and their painted variants. We send the former to various city stores and the latter are sold at airport stores.
 
 
  
  
 Pooja Surana
 University of Engineering 
 and Management
 Founder of: Ilume
 Average monthly turnover: `6,000
 Student speaks: One day, a friend, Sayak Dhar, and I decided to begin a   and conceptualised an idea. Two of our juniors, Pratik Mallick and Atrima Das Gupta, are excellent in making handicraft items. So they joined me in manufacturing personalised gifts like handpainted T-shirts, flower vases, cups and much more. Sayak worked on the technical part by designing the website from where people can place orders. We initially started making gifts from waste materials, but have expanded to other materials now.
 
 
  
  
 Sayan Chakraborty
 St Xavier’s College, Kolkata
 Founder of: WTF: Where’s the food
 Average monthly turnover: `15 lakh
 Student speaks: In our first year in college, we were unable to afford food from restaurants, as we found that too expensive. That’s how my I got my business idea. My aim was to deliver good food 24/7 at a low cost. So we created pages on various social media platforms and people used to place orders through these sites. People also started giving orders over the phone. That’s how our business grew. On an average, we deliver nearly 500-700 food parcels now. Unlike other apps and web portals, we cook the food ourselves and deliver it.
 
 
  
  
 Soumya Khatua and Subham Ghosh
 Techno India College of Technology and  
 Founder of: Easy Worships
 Average monthly turnover: `15,000
 Student speaks: We figured that nobody has the time to arrange everything for a puja at home. A major problem is appointing a priest. So, we launched a web portal to make it easier for them. People just need to tell us what type of puja they want to conduct. We arrange everything, including the priests, prasad and other small requirements of the puja. And if someone plans for a small gathering on the day of the event, we also arrange food for them. So, the people of the house can simply sit and enjoy the puja.
 
 
  
  
 Rituparna Paul
 Jadavpur University
 Founder of: Goynar Baksho
 Average monthly 
 turnover: `7,000
 Student speaks: Earlier, I used to work under one of my seniors who would make wooden jewellery. Later, I realised that I can make those myself. So, I started making jewellery out of waste material, oxidised gold and silver, and beads. I have a Facebook page from where I get orders. I also participate in various college fests so that people get to know about my brand. Moreover, junk jewellery is trending among college students nowadays. So, not only do students from JU buy my products, but also their friends from other colleges.
 
 
  
  
 Raunak Kapoor
 Presidency University
 Founder of: Van Man
 Average monthly turnover: `1.5 lakh
 Student speaks: I had entrepreneurship as a subject in my higher 
 secondary level. So, as a part of my project, I made some business plans. Out of those plans, I zeroed in on the concept of a food van, which I opened in Southern Avenue with only one employee. Now we have a team of eight and our USP is we deliver and sell food between a range of `15 and `40. We don’t go beyond this range. Thus, we mostly open outlets in or near schools and colleges, as the students can’t afford high-priced food. We even deliver meal boxes to offices.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Raunak Basu Roy Chowdhury
 Bhawanipur Education Society
 Founder Of: National Trade Corporation
 Average monthly turnover: `2 lakh
 Student speaks: One of my forefathers started this business a few generations ago, but the business model collapsed in 2010. It was my mission to revive the 
 business with new technology. For manufacturing wires and other metal elements, a particular type of machine is required; we manufacture spare parts for those machines. Our main manufacturing unit is in Ghaziabad. In Kolkata, we test the finished products. We supply these products mainly to Maharashtra now. But soon, we will be exporting them to countries in southeast Asia.
 
 — PUSHPITA DEY
 
