A recent edition ofVariety, the American entertainment magazine, included Pune’s   (FTII) in its list of top global film and TV learning schools.

 The mood among FTII faculty and alumni was understandably of pride. They said they always knew about the institute’s excellence and had confidence in its global status.
 
 The list, in no particular order, placed FTII along with the likes of the La Femis in Paris and the   in New York City. The writers praised the variety of courses available at the FTII and the “hands-on” teaching methods that ensure that batch sizes for certain courses are capped off at 10.
 
 Some alumni, including FTII director Bhupendra  , said the fact that FTII is one of the best is wellknown and it is time that it is recognised locally as well.
 
 “Though it was never a secret that FTII ranks among the world’s best, it is an honour when a prestigious magazine like Variety echoes the truth. There was no questionnaire sent to us; Variety conducted an independent study to include us,” said Kainthola.
 
 “I have always maintained that the FTII is one of the best. I have had colleagues from places like the   visit FTII, and they were all stunned by the quality of the equipment and students. People here don’t want to recognise it, but they go gaga when some foreign magazine or organisation praises FTII,” said  , the Oscar-winning sound designer and FTII alumnus. He added the institute should preserve some of the “tourism-worthy” sites on its campus. “In Italy, sites where Fellini shot films are tourist spots. Here very little has been done to preserve sites like the Shantaram pond or the Prabhat Studios,” he said.
 
 “Similar surveys were done even when we were students here. They too showed that FTII is one of the best institutes,” said Amit Tyagi, the dean of film at FTII.
 
 “When we were students, very few of our batchmates were graduates. Now, having a graduation degree is must. Earlier, we had a skeletal staff. I have been a faculty member for 14 years and FTII is wellstaffed now,” said Benjamin Gilani, the head of acting.
 
 
 
