BENGALURU: A gang of four miscreants attacked two bikeborne police constables and snatched a rifle from them before escaping at Kodigehalli, north Bengaluru, in the wee hours of Thursday.

 This is the fourth incident of policemen being attacked in Bengaluru in less than a week.
 
 S Girish, deputy commissioner of police (Northeast division), said   and  , attached to Kodigehalli police station, were injured in the incident.
 
 “Our constables rushed to the spot after receiving information about suspicious movement of some suspects. The constables were attacked by the gang on 8th Main Road,  , Kodigehalli around 2am. The gangsters escaped with a police rifle. We have taken up the case and are trying to nab them and recover the rifle,” Girish said.
 
 Kodigehalli police said they received information that some people were moving around suspiciously on roads near Ganesha Temple in   around 1.30am. The miscreants fled the area after locals gathered. Two constables, Paramesh and Siddappa, who were on night patrol on a Cheetah bike, rushed to Amco Layout and learnt that the suspects moved towards Tata Nagar. The duo rushed to Tata Nagar, where four men attacked them.
 
 The constables were pushed to the ground and attacked. Paramesh’s .303 rifle fell in the melee and the gangsters snatched it; they hurled a boulder at Paramesh. Siddappa too sustained minor injuries in the attack. The gangsters vanished under the cover of darkness.
 
 Suspecting the miscreants might have thrown the rifle in a drain nearby, civic workers scoured the drain, but in vain.
 
 Based on a complaint lodged by Siddappa, a case has been registered against the miscreants for assaulting police and stealing a rifle.While Paramesh has been admitted to a hospital, Siddappa was discharged after treatment.
 
 
 
 
 Two youths were arrested on Tuesday morning for allegedly abusing policemen and tearing their uniform during a drive to check vehicle movements as part of a nakabandi against chainsnatching incidents in T Dasarahalli, north Bengaluru.
 
 The accused are Suneeth Kumar and Prashanth, both aged about 23. Another suspect, Kiran, is at large. According to police, head constable Girish and constable Harish were deployed at T Dasarahalli to monitor movement of vehicles. They noticed three persons on a black Pulsar bike and flagged them down. But the accused reportedly threatened police by claiming they are members of the Human Rights Commission. The trio began abusing and pushing the cops and tore Girish’s uniform.
 
