
Problem: Puffy eyes with dark circles
 Why: Lack of sleep.
 Solution: One of the most effective home remedies for dark circles is using potato slices or tea bags on the eye. Mix a bit of sandalwood paste with milk as an under-eye pack. If eye area is dry and irritated, use a good eye cream and some cool gel packs. Take a nap when your baby is sleeping during the day and put slices of fresh and cool cucumber on your eyes. You can also apply any fresh fruit juice on a cotton pad and use it to soak your eyelids – let the enzymes in the fruit do their magic.
 
 
 
 Problem: Stretch marks
 Reason: Stretch marks form due to hormonal changes and the stretching of the skin over the abdomen. After childbirth, they become even more apparent. 
 Solution: Follow a moisturising routine throughout your pregnancy. Use light, non-sticky oil with a blend of calendula, lavender, rosemary, chamomile and vitamins A & E. Apply twice a day with a light massage. 
 
 
 
 Problem: Cracked skin – nipples, feet and lips
 Reason: Hormonal shifts cause oil imbalance in the skin, making it dry and cracked. 
 Solution: Apply natural oil such as coconut to your nipples, any natural ingredients based moisturiser and lip balms to other areas. 
 
 
 
 Problem: Dryness, hairfall
 Reason: Due to hormonal changes, some experience hairfall after childbirth. 
 Solution: Ensure good nourishment for your hair through protein-rich foods such as sprouts, fish, lentils, green vegetables, etc. Use a light hair oil twice a week. Continue all your supplements post-delivery for some time.
 
 
 
 Problem: Skin pigmentation
 Reason: Blame hormonal changes again. 
 Solution: Avoid excessive scrubbing around the darker areas. Use a good sunscreen. You can also use some skin lightening solutions such as kogic acid and vitamin B6. 
 Expert: Dr  , cosmetic physician
 
 Hair reacts to the stress of childbirth around three months after delivery. Up your nutrition to fight the fall
 
 
 
 A 2017 UK-based study of 500 women found that 64 per cent of daughters would trust their mothers over anyone else when it comes to receiving beauty tips. The study, by pro-age beauty brand Look Fabulous Forever for Mother’s Day, also found that over half of recipients said that the number one piece of advice passed down to them was to never go to sleep before removing the day’s make-up. Women polled said that their mum’s experiences with her own make-up trials meant that they deemed her the font of all beauty wisdom, while others said they felt confident that she would always be truthful, only wanting the best for them.
 
 
