A 13-year-old girl, identified as A Anitha, and her brother A Karthikeyan, 8, from Mayappapallam, are the latest additions to a long list of around 25 children in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu who met a watery grave in the last fortnight. The siblings from Idayamelur in Sivaganga taluk had gone to their grandparents’ home to spend the summer vacation, when they ventured into a tank and met with the tragic end. The bodies were fished out and sent to the government hospital for postmortem.

 With summer vacation reaching its peak, children have started exploring the areas around their locality. Often misguided by the calm surface and unaware of the depth, many venture into nearby water bodies like ponds, tanks and lakes and lose their precious lives. At least 25 children have drowned in various incidents that took place in the southern districts in the last fortnight alone. Some of the victims were part of pleasure trips. The gay abandon that characterises vacations and sightseeing tours sees children being let off to explore nature only to end up in tragedy. 
 
 The loss of their little ones causes irreparable damage to the family, leaving the parents in perpetual grief. At times, it drives them to take extreme decisions too as it happened on May 4. Vanitha, 32, from Saminathapuram in Palani, committed suicide by immolating herself as she could not get over the grief of losing her two children aged seven and eleven. The duo had drowned in her father’s place near Udumalpet when they went there for the summer vacation.
 
 Experts warn that it is not just the children who do not know swimming who are susceptible to drowning. Those who learned to swim in pools too could get into trouble as there were many other things that needed to be taken care of while dealing with water bodies. “It is always a risk to venture into water bodies like ponds, lakes and sea without having local knowledge about them,” says A A Bhaskar, a swimming coach from Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) . “At times, even an adept swimmer can get into trouble if he/she gets entangled in the slush or in between rocks. It is always advisable to study the surface of the water body and the depth pattern first, before taking a plunge,” he says.
 
 Director of Childline Madurai, C Jim Jesudoss, said “We teach our children various things, but fail to teach them environmental safety. Children, particularly teens, tend to be adventurous and would want to experiment many things, which may be dangerous,” he said. He pointed out that children should be taught how to handle a small fire and to save themselves and others when they get in water. Adventurous camps needed to be conducted where these skills could be honed.
 
 Following a series of incidents in Tuticorin district which claimed a dozen lives including those of elderly people in a week, district collector   had issued an advisory urging parents to closely monitor the children. He had also asked them not to allow the children to play in the sun, which can drive them to water to beat the heat. Madurai district superintendent of police N Manivannan too has issued an advisory urging the parents to take good care of children during vacation time. Children visiting their relative’s place had to be monitored by elders, he advised.
 
 Vox Pops
 
 A A Bhaskar, swimming coach: Conditions differ from one water body to another and venturing into unfamiliar water without local knowledge always invites danger
 
 C Jim Jesudoss: It is high time we taught our children basic lifesaving skills and ways to deal with natural hazards like fire. 
 
 Dos and don’ts 
 
 · Should not wear dresses like jeans which can restrict body movement 
 
 · In the absence of swim suit, it is better to wear minimum clothes 
 
 · Stretching before leaping into water enhances muscle movement 
 
 · Should not dive without knowing the surface underneath the water
 
 · It is advised to get local knowledge of a particular water body
 
 · While saving a drowning person, the rescuer should approach from the back side 
 
 · Often the person who tries to rescue also dies, as the drowning person tends to clasp him 
 
 · Venturing into water should be avoided immediately after meals
 
 LIVES SNUFFED OUT
 
 May 11 – Two children drown in a tank at Idayamelur near Sivaganga 
 
 May 5 - Three children aged between 10 and 12 drown in a tank near Vadapudupatti in Theni district 
 
 May 6- Two girls and a boy from Devakottai drown in sea at Arichalmunai 
 
 May 1- Two children drown in two separate incidents in Kanyakumari and Tuticorin 
 
 May 2 - A man and a class VIII student from Vilathikulam drown in a well in Kalingapatti 
 
 April 29- Three children including two brothers drown in a village tank near Vilathikulam 
 
 April 28 - A 10-year-old boy drowns in an infiltration well in Vaigai River near Sholavandan
 
 April 26- Four children drown in a village tank within Silaiman police limit in Madurai district
 
 
