BENGALURU: Buoyed by the response for its   between   (KIA) and Electronics City, Kerala-based   Pvt Limited will soon launch services from   and Whitefield to KIA. 

 The firm is planning to utilize   in the city’s highrises to extend its routes for the services. The city has over 90 rooftop helipads, but only the one at ITC Gardenia near Richmond Circle has the Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s (DGCA) approval so far.
 
 “We are in talks with star hotels like Leela Palace, ITC Gardenia, Le Meridien, Crowne Plaza and Bengaluru Marriott to use rooftop helipads. We’ll soon apply for DGCA’s approval. This will help us cater to the growing demand from passengers across the city,” said Thumby Aviation chairman and managing director Captain K N G Nair.
 
 “At present, we are operating two helicopters. We’ll induct a new two-engine helicopter that can land in rooftop helipads,” he said.
 
  As many as 325 passengers have hopped on to heli-taxis since the operations commenced on March 5 and they don’t seem to mind the cost that comes for traversing the Electronics City-KIA route within 12 minutes.
 
 One such commuter, who relies on the service from 6.30am to 10am and 3pm to 6pm, is S Sureshbabu, dean (research & development), Adhiyamaan College of Engineering in Hosur. “I would dread going to the airport. But things have changed with the heli-taxis. I’ve already used the service four times so far. Its worth taking a heli-taxi when private cabs charge about Rs 2,500 and take nearly three hours to reach KIA from Electronics City. It’s amazing to see the aerial view of the city and it also cuts down considerable amount of time instead of being stuck in traffic,” he added.
 
 Nair said they have several regular users, including corporate fliers. “We hope the number of bookings will increase in the coming months. The maximum demand is from 8am to 9am and 4pm to 5pm when there’s heavy traffic. We may extend these services to Mumbai, Hyderabad and Delhi in a few months,” he added.
 
 The firm charges Rs 4,160 per ticket.Users can book it via the HeliTaxii app which is available in Android and iOS devices.
 
 
