NEW DELHI:  , led by ex-PM Manmohan Singh, on Monday petitioned the President against PM Modi, accusing him of using "menacing language" to intimidate its leaders. The party urged President RN Kovind to caution Modi against behaviour that did not behove the PM of "a constitutionally governed democratic country of 1.3 billion people". The complaint was based on a speech Modi gave in   on May 6 while on campaign.

 
 The party quoted the PM as saying, "Congress ke neta kaan khol kar sun lijiye, agar seemaon ko paar karoge, to yeh Modi hai, lene ke dene pad jayenge (Congress leaders should listen to this, if you cross limits, remember this is Modi, it will backfire on you)."   reacted angrily to Congress move and released a long list of abuses hurled by party leaders at Modi. "Congress has been targeting Modi because of its reluctance to accept that a man born in poverty has become Prime Minister, a post which only one family can lay claim to," law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said.
 
 The complaint is set to further embitter relations between the rival camps, which hit a low when Modi, during the Gujarat campaign, accused Pakistan of trying to influence the elections and cited a meeting that Singh and Mani Shankar Aiyar had with Pakistani officials. Singh slammed Modi in a statement while Congress asked the PM to apologise. Since then, the two sides have been crossing swords, with Congress president  , too, entering the fray.
 
 The Congress's letter to Kovind said, "The President may caution the PM from using such unwarranted, threatening and intimidating language against leaders of the Congress party or any other party or person as it does not behove the position of the PM."
 
 Besides Singh, the letter was signed by senior Congress leaders A K Antony, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Ahmed Patel, P Chidambaram, Ashok Gehlot, Mallikarjun Kharge, Karan Singh, Ambika Soni, Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma, Motilal Vora, Digvijay Singh and Mukul Wasnik. Stating that a PM could not use the kind of language used by Modi, Congress alleged it amounted to use of power to "settle personal and political scores". The Congress leaders said all past PMs had discharged their private and public functions with immense dignity.
 
 "The threat held out by the PM to the Congress leadership deserves to be condemned. This cannot be the language of the PM of a constitutionally governed democratic country of 1.3 billion people. Such discourse whether in public or private is unacceptable conduct. The words used are menacing and intimidating with intent to insult and provoke breach of peace," the Congress leaders said.
 
 At the same time, Congress noted it was the oldest party in the country and had faced many challenges and threats.
 
