PANAJI:   taxi operators across Goa called off their strike on Sunday, its third day, after a written assurance by deputy speaker and BJP’s Calangute MLA Michael Lobo, that all their demands would be fulfilled. Later, chief minister   told reporters that his government would file an intervention petition in the Supreme Court to seek a speed governor exemption for Goa’s tourist taxis.

 Parrikar told   operators, who met him along with Lobo, that they went on strike without following procedure, and they should withdraw the strike in the interest of the state. He said the government would give them time to fit the speed governors, but no exemption. “I have bluntly told them that I cannot withdraw fitting of speed governor,” he said.
 
  “As of now it cannot be done because of the decision of Supreme Court and rules framed by the Centre.”
 
 However, the chief minister said that his government would take a decision on Monday to grant extension to tourist taxi operators to fit speed governors in their vehicles. Parrikar said that taxi operators informed the government that speed governors are not available in sufficient quanities in the state. “They (taxi operators) should give me a representation that there are not enough speed governors in the state, and the government will take decision on their request on Monday,” he said.
 
 Parrikar said that as per Section 110/3b of the Motor Vehicles Act, the state government can grant more time to fit speed governors. “Under this section, we will consider their request,” Parrikar said. 
 
 The chief minister said that tourist taxi operators told him that the case is still pending in the Supreme Court, and that the state government should intervene. “Fitting speed governors in tourist taxis is not a positive thing,” Parrikar said. “It is not required according to the state government, and we have no problem putting this view before the Supreme Court,” Parrikar said, adding that his personal view on the matter is also similar. He said that a speed limit of 80kmph “will not change any ground situation” in the state. 
 
 The strike ended at around 4.30pm and the cabbies resumed operations immediately afterwards. It was the culmination of a long drama at Azad Maidan,  , where protesters had gathered since morning. Lobo told them that Parrikar has assured him that the transport department would process the file to issue fitness certificates to taxi operators. “You will get fitness certificates for your vehicles on Tuesday,” Lobo said. 
 
 Laxman ‘Bappa’ Korgaonkar, spokesperson of the North Goa tourist taxi association, appreciated Lobo’s efforts, and said the strike would be called off if Lobo gave a written assurance. “Michael, give us your assurance in writing, else let’s remain sitting here peacefully till Tuesday,” he said, adding that Lobo should step down if he fails to keep his word.
 
 At this point, Lobo reiterated that he understands the taxi drivers’ problems, and said that if his promises are not fulfilled, “on Tuesday, I will be here sitting with you”. After a few more back-and-forths, including an unexpected intervention by members of the Mahila Congress, Lobo wrote out the “assurance letter” and read it out to the crowd.
 
 
