INDORE: Stare at the   and   a four-month infant, and he stares right back. Unblinking. Without remorse. He simply stares. 

  Police officers interrogating the suspect are shocked not only by his lack of guilt, but also by his explanation for the deed: he wanted to take revenge on his sister, the baby's mother, for throwing him in front of cops. 
 
 The newborn infant was tortured and murdered by a drug addict and drunkard, whose addiction began at 12 years, who loves to cut himself up, and who has no qualms leering at relatives or groping minors in the family, say police and his close kin.
 
 And to think that   cameras clicked him holding the newborn to his chest as he led her away to her death. "After that (the rape), I tossed it over the railings to her death," the 26-year-old told interrogators. 
 
 He went home, threw his   in a corner of his mother's house and took a nap, say police. He then visited a Kali temple, took a bath and whiled away the day.
 
 The day before he killed the four-month-old baby he had accosted the newborn's mother - his sister - to pressure her into helping him strike a compromise with his first wife, who had thrown him out. 
 
 The mother refused. He became so menacing that she was forced to summon policemen posted at Rajwada. The cops shooed him away. He returned in the morning to exact terrible revenge.
 
 
 
 
 I told the suspects about sacrifices made by Indore’s queen, Ahilyamata Holkar, and how she had ordered her son’s execution under the feet of an elephant as she believed the law is same for everyone,” city SP BPS Parihar said. The suspect was finally identified by his estranged wife. “This man is my husband. He used to have ill-intentions towards my sister and two minor daughters so we had thrown him out . I will take you to where he lives now. He should be hanged,” the woman told the investigators. 
 
 “Once the identity was established, catching the killer was easy,” Parihar said. The woman led constables to Gadarakhedi where the suspect was caught around 7pm on Friday. Police announced his arrest around 11.30pm, after he confessed. Some of his relatives told police that when they informed him about the baby’s horrifying death, he showed no emotion, police said. The killer was on his way back to the temple, when he was caught. During interrogation, he revealed that he was trying to patch up with his wife and had sought help from the baby’s mother. After night-long interrogation at Sadar Bazaar police station, he was shifted to Sarafa police station for court proceedings.
 
 
