Kolkata: The slugfest over going with or without Congress in CPM district conferences overshadows a deeper malaise — the party’s inability to attract youth to win back its support base among the poor and middle class.

 The ‘young’ disconnect is common to party committees irrespective of who all swear by the alliance or those who swear at it. CPM’s Kolkata and North 24 Parganas contingents, at opposite poles over the issue, are on the same page when it comes to adding millennials to the party fold. 
 
 The age-wise party membership profile of Kolkata CPM reveals that as many as 7,398, or nearly 60% of the total 13,678 members in the city, are above 50 years. And the number of women members is a paltry 1,565. The situation is similar in CPM North 24 Parganas, where 60% of the 20,000 party members are 50-plus.
 
 The greying of the party’s district committees has found reflection in its shrinking support base. CPM bigwigs may blame it on the “vote loot” by the ruling Trinamool in the recently held assembly bypolls and the civic polls but that doesn’t give them a breather. For instance, an analysis in the CPM North 24 Parganas district committee of the 11 areas in the Noapara assembly segment where there was no major allegation of vote manipulation shows that BJP has come second and in a few booths the first, and not CPM when the CPM-Congress jote candidate had won the seat just two years ago in 2016.
 
 If Noapara is one instance showcased by the CPM liberals to argue that people lost confidence in the anti-Trinamool CPM and Congress because there was no jote this time, figures provided by Kolkata CPM throws up a different picture. 
 
 The Left and Congress jote polled 35.49% votes in the 2016 assembly elections, which is way behind Trinamool’s 47.92% with a substantial 12.15% votes going to BJP. In fact, the Left and Congress vote share taken together registered a marginal dip (35.49%) in 2016 when compared with the 2014 Lok Sabha polls (35.96%) in the Bengali-speaking Kolkata slums.
 
 BJP, on the other hand, increased its vote share in the civic polls later and the recently held Uluberia and Noapara bypolls, emerging as the second force at the cost of Left and Congress. 
 
 All these tend to project that CPM is caught in a Trinamool-BJP binary in Bengal that may get worse after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls if Mamata Banerjee wins most of the Lok Sabha seats from the state, taking her party to a new high at the national level. In that case, Congress will be more interested in getting along with Trinamool rather than Left.
 
 Party mandarins in Alimuddin Street are aware of the problem but don’t have the wherewithal to capture the anti-incumbency that BJP has been able to do in a limited way, giving dissenters a sense of security because of being in power at the Centre. 
 
 According to CPM sympathisers, the challenge before the party now is to bring Left and secular politics back on the public agenda before they debate on a jote or no-jote with Congress.
 
 
