PANAJI: Christiane  , awardee of the   in medicine in 1995, said that research in science has to be carried out just to understand complex issues of life on earth and need not only be done directly aimed at improving mankind. Nusselein-Volhard, who won the Nobel prize for identifying and classifying 15 genes that direct growth of cells into more complex living beings, was speaking at the opening of the Nobel Prize Series India 2018 in   on Thursday.

 “I think it should be pointed out that science is not always directly aimed at improving mankind, and often not in the first instance meant to improve mankind. I think basic research should be pointed out as a very important part of science where it is not directly aimed at discovering something helping in medicine or agriculture or technology, but just to understand complicated issues in biology, which has been quite important to fundamental research, which then later on led to important medical discoveries,” said the German scientist.
 
 Nusselein-Volhard said that, in her research, she started out just to satisfy her curiosity about how a simple unstructured egg developed into complex organisms.
 
 “We discovered a number of genes which were crucial. And it turned out later that this basic research led to the discovery of many genes and, in the meantime, several drugs have been developed on the basis of these genes and we had no knowledge of this and we didn’t want to do that. But it was very important that we understand the fundamental development of one organism,” she said.
 
 Nusselein-Volhard said that she is currently trying to determine how fish get their colours and patterns, which, again, has not had any immediate impact on any aspect for medicine.
 
 “But, I am convinced that when you work on some very fundamental problem, it will eventually lead to something that will benefit mankind. I would encourage you to follow your curiosity and it will lead to important improvements in the life of human beings,” said the scientist.
 
 
