Mysuru: Nurses, working on a  , attached to the Krishna Rajendra Hospital,   Hospital, PKTB and Sanatorium Hospital continued their protest for a second day running, and made it clear that they had no intentions of relenting till their demands, which include   and job security were met.

 The nurses took out a rally along some of the thoroughfares of the city, before staging a dharna near the deputy commissioner’s office on Friday. The ongoing strike is expected to leave the three hospitals, which treat thousands of patients between them every day, crippled. Not too happy with working on a contract basis, the protesting nurses are demanding that their employment be made permanent.
 
 Pointing to the discrepancy in pay, Mahesh, who has been working as a nurse for the past eight years, said, “In March 2017, those nurses who had three years in experience were paid Rs 16,500, while those with more experience were given rs 17,500. But, in November, our salary was reduced to Rs 8,000, inconveniencing all of us.”
 
 Mahesh pointed out that, many nurses, assured of a decent wage, had made a lot of commitments such as taking out loans and making other investments. ‘But, a reduction in our salary by more than 50% has really made life difficult for us,” he added, demanding that their salaries be revised to the old grade.
 
 The nurses also demanded that their salaries be credited to their account prior to the tenth of each month, and also urged the authorities to give them preference when they recruited nurses for permanent positions.
 
 Of the 190 nurses who are protesting, around 90 work at Cheluvamba and KR Hospital, while the rest are attached to the PKTB and Sanatorium Hospital, all attached to the Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI).
 
 MMCRI director unaware of protest for six hours
 
 The in-charge director of the Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) Dr Radhamani admitted to being unaware of the protest on Friday around six hours after the agitation started. “Where are they staging protest? I have no idea about the incident. They have not come to work today. They have not told us,” Dr Radhamani told TOI.
 
 The doctor said that she had tried to persuade the nurses not to strike work on Thursday, but was unaware of the dharna on Friday. “The nurses are working on contract basis, and are being paid Rs 8,000, which is common across the state. They are relieved and reinstated once in 11 months. Naturally, their absence is bound to inconvenience services at the hospital but the other personnel are working, and ensuring that things proceed smoothly at the hospitals,” Dr Radhamani said.
 
 She said that she had spoken to the principal secretary of the medical department. “The principal secretary has informed that the salary of those nurses working on a contractual basis will be increased to Rs 10,000. She has also told me that applications for permanent nurse posts will also be called invited at the earliest,” Radhamani said.
 
 
