CHENNAI:   ( ) has given the go ahead for   to float tenders for adding new solar and wind power capacity in the state in 2018. Tenders for adding a total of 3000MW of solar and wind power capacity will be floated soon, with the upper limit on tariff fixed at 3 per unit for solar and 2.65 per unit for wind. 

 "We have received nod to float tenders for solar and wind power projects in 2018," confirmed a Tangedco official.   has the maximum capacity in wind but in solar the state's ranking has come down in the last few years, when compared to other states. 
 
 As per TNERC nod, the discom will be able to launch three separate consecutive tenders for grid-connected solar power capacity, of 500MW each. 
 
 The regulator has also given permission for an equal 1500MW capacity in wind power in multiple phases and tenders, with the minimum capacity per project of at least 25MW. The wind power tariff has also been on a downhill like solar, with the lower bid for wind power at Rs 3 per unit last year, but this year fixed at Rs 2.65 per unit. 
 
 "The base tariff for solar and wind power was decided by   (SECI) and based on that we have sought the nod from TNERC to float the tenders for the coming financial year," said the official. 
 
 Tamil Nadu has a total wind capacity of 7,858MW and more than 1000MW is in the pipeline after the tenders were finalised last year. Similarly, solar power capacity is around 1800MW and more than 1000MW is in the pipeline. 
 
 Meanwhile, more wind power companies are showing interest in investing in Tamil Nadu, which is at 9th place across the world in terms of wind power generation. "The wind power tariff has been falling below the base tariff of thermal units. Tangedco and other discoms will be happy to evacuate wind power at a tariff less than 3 per unit instead of burning coal in their own units," said secretary general of the Indian Wind Turbine Manufacturers Association D V Giri. 
 
 Tamil Nadu will need an additional 743MW of solar power capacity to fulfil its solar renewable purchase obligation (RPO) requirement of 4,553MW for the current fiscal year. It will also need about 1,679 MW of wind power to achieve the non-solar RPO requirement of 10.25% for 2018/19. 
 
 
