NAGPUR:   will provide an excellent opportunity to city players to showcase their talent to the world, said Union transport minister   here on Sunday.

 
 
 Gadkari, a brainchild of biggest sporting extravaganza of  , is confident that the 20-day festival will produce several local sporting stars, which will serve the region for a long time in the future.
 
 “The maiden Ranji Trophy triumph of   cricket team has proved that we have plenty of talent in the region. Similarly, we want to motivate the players of other sports and provide them the right platform to excel. We also want to create a sporting atmosphere in the city,” said Gadkari while interacting with the sports scribes here on Sunday.
 
 He said the idea of Khasdar Krida Mahotsav was generated after the successful cultural festival held in the city a couple of months ago.
 
 “Like cultural festival, we will have a spectacular sports festival in the coming days. I believe that sports needs to be developed in the city by providing necessary infrastructure and proper facilities. We have invited former Olympic medal shooter and sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore and badminton legend   so that their presence could inspire the young local players. This is our sincere effort to spot and nurture local talent,” said Gadkari.
 
 He said Krida Mahotsav will be held every year with some additions and improvement. About the proposed SAI centre on the outskirts of the city, Gadkari said the process is on and they have have asked a leading architecture to prepare a detailed plan soon.
 
 “When I was a guardian minister, I had developed 61 grounds. Now, my aim is to have enough sporting infrastructure in the city. There should be two swimming pools in every constituency and at least four grounds so that maximum players get the chance to play. Players from every corner of the city should get chance to practice and enhance their talent,” said Gadkari.
 
 Gadkari said he is planning to form a sports trust of Khasdar Krida Mahotsav so that the funds could be generated and could be utilized for the needy sportspersons.
 
 “Deserving players should get the jobs in government organisations and public sectors. Police, Railways and MSEB recruit players but others should also follow suits and provide employment to sportspersons. I will take this opportunity to appeal to the citizens of Nagpur to watch all the sports events and encourage the youngsters. Coming to the ground and motivate the players will boost the performance and will also fetch them lucky prizes,” said Gadkari.
 
 He said he will help the administration to get astro turf. He will also use his good offices to get the permanent grounds for other associations like football.
 
 Gadkari said the state-art-of-the art gymnasium has been proposed in the London Street project. “It will have all the modern equipments and even a common man can utilize this facility at the nominal charges of 100 per month,” he said.
 
 When pointed out that Vidarbha cricketers are not eligible to get Shiv Chhatrapati award, Gadkari assured that in this regard he will talk to state sports minister Vinod Tawde so that in future Vidarbha cricketers could also get the prestigious award.
 
 Convener of the Khasdar Krida Mahotsav Sandip Joshi was also present during the press conference.
 
 
