Chandigarh: For the fruit and vegetable vendors of Sector 26 grain market, a toilet seems like a distant dream. The vendors, whose shops are located near the external edge of the market close to the road leading to police lines, are forced to urinate in the open and this has turned the place into a smelly urination zone over a period of time. 

 A thick smell of urine can be constantly felt dominating the air here that has become an irritant for both visitors as well as the shopkeepers, who are forced to use buckets of water at times to ward off the stink. 
 
 An empty plot of land located beside the entry point of the market does have a single mobile toilet parked towards the wall, but the plight of the facility is pathetic offering no utility to the visitors and the vendors alike. “There is no toilet here. There never was. We have no option but to go and urinate in the open. This wall (pointing opposite to SCF No 1 opposite parking) has become our go-to place,” said Sandeep, a fruit vendor. 
 
 “The MC thinks that giving us a mobile toilet is enough? Have you seen its condition? It is full of garbage, filth and rotten faecal matter, which never gets cleaned. Moreover, the place has now been reduced to breeding spot for flies and it smells so bad that we sometimes have a gag reflex. We are also human beings,” said Ankur, another vegetable and fruit vendor. 
 
 A small scale canteen started by a roadside food vendor a few months ago near the wall was also shut down due to the unbearable stench that made it difficult to prepare food and consume it. 
 
 According to officials from the Grain Market Association Sector 26, more than a thousand people visit the area everyday. 
 
 Apart from stench and urine marks on the walls of the market and accumulation of garbage in overwhelming proportions at all corners of the locality has also been a major civic flaw directly affecting the sanctity of the place. “A constant unloading of tonnes of food material like fruits, vegetables among others happens here all day. The food is packed in paper, ropes and sometimes in dried twigs among others, which is unwrapped here. Hence garbage becomes the by-product here,” said Manoj Singh, one of the unloaders.
 
 Numerous, vendors from the market claim to have send repeated requests and complaints to the market association, but to no avail. 
 
 However, chairman of the market committee Kulwinder Singh Lobana said, “We as the market committee are not responsible for the toilets and civic needs of the area. That is MC’s job.”
 
 
