Consider this; a soft breeze whipping your hair, warm golden sand between your toes, and a blanket of clouds over your head, while you watch the sky darken and the moon rise slowly from the frothy ocean! Doesn’t it sound like a scene from an exotic beach vacation? Well, that’s exactly what a gang of 10   youth did on what was a magical ‘Full Moon Beach Walk’ held at the Chintapandu Beach on Monday.

  After exchanging pleasantries the revellers were treated to soulful   performance by 22-year old   J Shashikanth. The lush greenery around the beach seemed to create a beautiful barrier between the concrete jungle and pure good ol’ nature. Watching the sun set together and waiting for the moon to rise, the youth sang popular English, Hindi, Telugu and even Tamil numbers! While the moon rose and the night darkened, the clouds played spoilsport, but the revellers just switched on their torchlights and continued singing. And during a particularly soulful rendition of 
 , the fiery red moon finally peeked out, almost as if in appreciation.
 
  Organised by  , founded by four city-based adventurers, K Vimal Raj (22), KV Kishore Teja (21), Naga Pramod (20) and Sumanth Behara (27) – the novel venture venture aimed at bringing together like-minded people. “Imagine, how rare is it to find someone who would like to sit with you to stare at the stars and the moon?” said Sumanth. The revellers gathered to do exactly that to drive away the Monday blues at the lesser known long stretch of the coast. 
 
  While the idea sounds so simple on paper, Sumanth wondered how many of us get around to do actually? “We want to organise this every full moon from now because we want to build a culture of people spending more time outdoors in Vizag. The whole point of this beach walk is to meet new people so, you not only meet like-minded guys, but also, form a community of those who like doing the same things you do,” he shared. 
 
  “Exploring the unexplored in   is what we aim to do”, said Vimal Raj. “In fact, that is how I met these three who belong in a star asylum,” quipped Sumanth while Vimal added, “It was exactly around this time of the year last year Kishore and I began to explore the lesser known facets of Vizag. We went trekking near Paderu and later, we explored Chintapally and other places in and around Vizag last year. Our trekking style is such is that if the map asks us to go straight, we will take right,” he laughs, adding, “But that is precisely how that in the last one year, we have discovered numerous places here, including a waterfall.” 
 
  
 
 
  Beyond finding like-minded people, the whole concept of these explorations and moon walks is to help Vizagites get acquainted to parts of Vizag they seldom explore. “There are a lot of things Vizag has to offer, but many don’t realise it. Vizag is blessed with so much beauty; shouldn’t we really be outdoors more? I went to a trek in Paderu with Vimal and I could see the Milky Way clearly at night there, something which I believed I had to go to Japan or elsewhere to explore,” says Sumanth in awe. Vimal agrees with him, “Whenever our families or relatives come visit the city, we take them to the usual tourist spots and haunts. But they must come to understand that Vizag holds much more, like this beach which very few are aware of.” 
 
