Mohammad Ali Baig, an Indian actor, theatre director and   awardee was in Lucknow recently to stage his play 'Quli: Dilon Ka Shahzaada'. In a freewheeling chat with us, Ali spoke about his love for theatre, Lucknow and his global experience of theatre.

 Is this your first visit to Lucknow? 
 
 Yes, this is my first trip to Lucknow. I have heard a lot about Lucknow's culture and food. Hyderabad and Lucknow are common in many aspects. Like, its old world charm, traditions, its love for etiquettes and language is similar to that of Hyderabad. So yes, it's been a lovely experience in Lucknow. 
 
 What do you have to say about the theatre scene in our country right now? Do you think the entry of sponsors and corporates have changed it?
 
 Patronage has always been there for performing arts in our country. People like Late Wajid Ali Shah and Qutub Shah have patronised art. So, entry of corporates in theatre is a good sign, because theatre needs sponsorships. But this doesn't mean that theatre needs to sell out to commercialisation. It has to be a symbiotic relationship. There should be a fine line between sponsorship and branding and sponsorship should not interfere in the decorum of pure theatre. Corporates are always welcome, but they need to appreciate and respect the decorum of theatre. You cannot have 'in-your-face' branding in theatre.
 
  
    (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 After commercialisation of plays, can a theatre artist in India earn his/her bread and butter by only doing theatre?
 I earn my bread, butter, jam and cheese by only doing theatre and I make sure everyone working with me gets that. I don't approach theatre as a hobby, I approach it like a bureaucrat would approach his job. One has to work for theatre seriously. People should stop using theatre as a stepping stone to the film industry. I have seen people who don't get time for theatre after doing 2-3 films. People have to respect theatre like any other profession. So, jahaan commitment hai wahan aapko sab mil jaayega.
 
 You have done only one film Aruvi. What has kept you away from films? 
 
 I never wanted to be an actor. I started my theatre foundation as a tribute to my father. One day a group of youngsters offered me this role of  , in the movie Aruvi. I found the role very interesting and challenging. I agreed to do this role and everyone who saw the movie loved the character Shakeel. As I said, I didn't want to be in films, but I took it as a challenge and now I am enjoying myself as an actor. Right now I am doing Telugu films and an English-Hindi bilingual film.
 
 You have performed yours plays all over the world. What according to you is the difference between Indian and western theatre practices?
 
 It is very strange and ironic that India gave the world Natya Shastra, but now India looks up to the West for inspiration. Our benchmark shouldn’t be Broadway. Broadway's benchmark should be Indian theatre. People in the west should say I aspire to perform in an India classical theatre piece. Indians want to do plays of Shakespeare, George Bernard Shaw, etc which is a colonial hangover. They don't know anything about Indian playwrights. Every street of India has its own story. The problem is that we don’t pay attention. The difference between our audience and their audience is that they are far more exposed to performing arts than we are. Even people who teach theatre in our country, are also western bhakts. We should stop working on wrong benchmarks.
 
 Going by your choices, it seems like you love old untouched stories like stories of   and  . 
 
 If we don't value our heritage and heroes, who else will? It is a different kick when you take stories of these people and retell their life stories. There is a responsibility when you portray the stories of real historical figures, you can't be very fictitious with them. We draw an inspiration from them because we are our past, our past defines our future.
 
 Do you think the younger generation has got something new for this mode of entertainment?
 
 Yes, there are many young writers coming and most of them say that they want to bring in new contemporary classics. Young theatre people shouldn't lose hope. They should focus on polishing their craft.
 By Rahul Goreja
 
