DHARWAD: The aspirants for a   ticket from Dharwad (Rural) assembly constituency and workers are keeping their fingers crossed as the party has not yet named its   for the seat. 

 BJP which is keen to regain the seat in the constituency comprising a major part of   taluk and eight wards of Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation has a formidable opponent in district in-charge minister  .
 
 The inordinate delay by the BJP in deciding the candidate, has made party workers as well as aspirants relax. While Kulkarni who has the credit of being the first minister from the constituency has started wooing voters since several months by various means, BJP is yet to start actual campaigning. 
 
 Former MLA Seema Masuti, former ZP member Amrut Desai, Sanganagouda Ramanagoudar and Tavanappa Astagi are strong contenders for the BJP ticket.
 
 “Nobody is telling us about the candidate. The local leaders are pointing fingers at national BJP president Amit Shah. The delay in announcing the candidate will hamper campaigning,” said a party worker from Aminabhavi.
 
 As per the direction of its high command BJP has only been conducting workers’ meetings detailing them about the dos and don’ts. However, the workers are not enthused as the party has not named its candidate. Campaigning involves expenditure and no aspirant wants to spend money unless he or she is declared as the candidate.
 
 Dharwad constituency was a Congress bastion since 1962. It was in 1985 that Ayyappa Desai of the Janata Party snatched the seat from Congress by defeating sitting MLA C V Pudakalakatti. Farmers’ leaders Babagouda Patil and professor M D Nanjundaswamy of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha held the seat for a term from 1989 while Shivanand Ambadagatti (Independent) won in 1999.
 
 Vinay Kulkarni, after being denied a ticket by Congress, contested as an independent in 2003 and won. He later rejoined the Congress. BJP’s Seema Masuti defeated him in 2008. Kulkarni fought back and won the seat in 2013 defeating his nearest rival Amrut Desai of Janata Dal(S). Seema was a BJP candidate while Tavanappa Astagi contested from KJP.
 
 The situation in the constituency has now become tricky as three candidates - Seema Masuti, Amrut Desai and Tavanappa Astagi - who had fought against Kulkarni in 2013 are now in BJP. The trio had together secured 56 per cent of the votes polled while Kulkarni had got 40.18 per cent votes. Now the BJP leadership is finding it difficult to choose among the aspirants and fears defection by those denied a ticket, while workers are confused. 
 
 
