LUDHIANA: In view of high pollution levels in the largest grain market of Asia, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has recommended shifting of the market out of Khanna city.

 After the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) took note of the high pollution levels at the market, the PPCB has written to the   secretary to shift of grain market outside Khanna.
 
 In a letter to secretary, mandi board, PPCB chairman   has said that he wants to draw the attention of mandi board to the pollution in grain market in Khanna, which is the largest grain market in Asia, caused by tractors and other implements used during harvesting season.
  
  
 
 He said during last kharif season, a study of air and water pollution was conducted in 10 main grain markets in the state wherein air pollution in Khanna market was recorded at 480 micrograms per cubic metre whereas for other grain markets it was 100 mg/m3 which is 5-6 times lesser than that of Khanna market.
 
 The letter further said the high level of pollution has serious effects on the health of the workers, commission agents, farmers, and those passing through the market. It added that in a   report, Khanna was ranked 16th among the top 20 most polluted cities in the world. Even CPCB has asked officials to work towards reducing PM2.5 level in the market in Khanna.
 
 The PPCB chief said as the produce reaches the largest grain market of Asia during harvesting season, the pollution level goes very high with the arrival of innumerous tractor trolleys. As there are four to five big schools and playgrounds within one km of grain market, the pollution has bad effect on the health of students and players, the PPCB further wrote.
 
 PPCB chairman Kahan Singh Pannu said they have asked the mandi board to take immediate steps to shift the market out of the city.
 
 Residents also complain of very high pollution level. “The air pollution during the arrival of crop at Khanna mandi is unbearable. Every year, I, my wife and son suffer respiratory illness during the season. The situation is no different in other residential areas and schools during this season,” said  , a businessman who lives on Khalsa school road near the grain market.
 
 Manjeet Singh, secretary, Khanna grain market committee, said the decision to shift the market has to be taken by the state mandi board or government. He added that for shifting the Khanna mandi, land has to be acquired by the government.
 
