London: Dozens of innovative tech startups and companies in Kolkata now have the opportunity to expand their footprint overseas after the UK’s technology trade association has formalised ties with East India’s premier business chamber. TechUK, which represents the tech sector in the UK, has signed its first memorandum of understanding (MoU) in India with the Kolkata-based business body Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC). The MoU states they will promote and foster business relations and technology collaborations between members of TechUk and technology companies across East and North East India, with a special focus on Kolkata. The move comes after a delegation of technology companies from Kolkata and representatives from the ICC and the West Bengal government visited London and had discussions with TechUK. It follows the launch of a report in January detailing how Kolkata could become a regional digital powerhouse. TechUK represents more than 950 tech companies in the UK employing half of all tech jobs here, ranging from FTSE 100 firms to startups.  “TechUK already works very closely with Nasscom across India but the MoU aims to create more events, collaborations and activities. The association hopes to sign more MoUs with different regional bodies in the future,” CEO of TechUk Julian David told TOI. The intention of the MoU is to facilitate collaborations in emerging areas of technology, trade links and for there to be regular visits from tech companies in the Kolkata region to the UK and vice versa and for TechUK and the ICC to each act as a gateway to access market opportunities. David told TOI: “We see this MoU as the first steps of building a stronger relationship with India which will become increasingly important after Brexit as the UK does not produce enough skills of its own for the tech industry. We hope that Narendra Modi’s upcoming visit to Britain will be a catalyst for building on this relationship.” India is one of TechUK’s five priority markets, alongside China, Japan, the US and Korea. “Kolkata offers a unique gateway to a population of 500m in east and northeast India, as well as neighbouring countries,” said ICC director-general Rajeev Singh.