NEW DELHI : At a time when the government-bureaucracy relations have plummeted to a new low, Jayadev Sarangi, secretary of information and publicity, claimed the   government’s television ad campaign marking its three years in power could not be released because no head of the department was ready to certify the statement of chief minister   that corruption had fallen by over 80% after AAP formed the government. The failure to release the ad campaign was, according to  , the trigger for the physical assault on him by party  .

 Sarangi’s statement on Thursday has given a fresh twist to the governance crisis in the capital and is likely to add fuel to fire because the government has maintained that the midnight meeting with Prakash on Monday was not related to the ad campaign, but to the problems in distribution of PDS rations.
 
 “No department was ready to certify the claims of the government on corruption because they had no base on which to certify as such,” Sarangi said. “The department of information cannot publish advertisements unless the other departments endorse the information contained in the advertisement.” Indeed, Supreme Court guidelines say that every fact in a government advertisement has to be vouched for by the department concerned. In his FIR, Prakash claimed to have cited these guidelines to the MLAs as the reason why the officials were bound to release the ads only after such a certification.
 
 The state government had recently claimed that the advertisement campaign could not be released even though the bureaucrats had approved most portions of the advertisement because they were at a loss about how to clear the remarks of Kejriwal, who was quoted in the ads as saying, “When you are true and honest, then all visible and invisible forces of the universe make it happen for you.” The officials did not know which department would clear such a philosophical statement of the CM.
 
 The video message for the campaign begins with Kejriwal claiming that corruption had gone down significantly in the capital after 2015. The video has a slogan too that sums up the government’s work in the three years since it formed the government: “Teen saal hua kamaal; badley school, badley aspataal; badla bijli, paani ka haal (In three years, schools, hospitals, power and water have seen big changes).”
 
 A government official said that in 2017 a report of the Central Vigilance Commission was tabled in Parliament that listed the panel receiving 5,139 complaints of corruption against Delhi government departments from the public in 2015. The figure had dropped to 969 in 2016, showing a sharp decline of over 81% in just one year. “The bureaucrats could have used this report to clear the advertisement,” insisted the official.
 
 Later in the day, AAP leader Ashutosh accused Sarangi of making “confidential statements public at the behest of somebody”. The party’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh wondered whether the officials were reluctant to clear the campaign and meant, therefore, to say that “corruption has not declined because the officials are still engaged in corruption”.
 
 The information and publicity secretary has had his run-ins with the government. Last November, Sarangi alleged that deputy chief minister   threatened to make life difficult for him when he refused to clear an advertisement.
 
 
