CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court on Tuesday stayed the orders regarding repatriation of eight officers of   from the post of deputy superintendent of police (DSPs) in the Chandigarh Police to Delhi.

 A division bench comprising Justice   and Justice Rajbir Sehrawat passed the orders while hearing a petition filed by the UT administration through its home secretary.
 
 The administration had challenged the orders of the Chandigarh bench of  , which ordered the ministry of home affairs (MHA) for repatriation of the eight DSPs to Delhi.
 
 “Till the next date of hearing, the order of repatriation shall remain stayed,” the bench ordered, while adjourning the matter for February 5.
 
 The administration argued the repatriation of the eight DSPs immediately would have grave and serious effect on the overall law and order situation in the city.
 
 With these orders, the eight DSPs, Pawan Kumar,  , Chepyala Anjitha, Rashmi Sharma, Deepak Yadav, Krishan Kumar, Sukhraj Katewa and Rajiv Kumar Ambasta, would continue to function in the Chandigarh police till further orders.
 
 They were repatriated and ordered to be relieved by the CAT after hearing the petition filed by some police inspectors of Chandigarh Police demanding their promotion to the post of DSP.
 
 In its petition, the administration submitted that if all DANIP officers are repatriated instantly, it will have grave and serious effect on the law enforcement of the city and such consequences would not be in the larger interest of the administration as well as citizens.
 
 It was further submitted that losing eight out of the existing 17 DSPs will deplete the police force dramatically and adversely affect its working.
 
 The administration also told the high court that the departmental promotion committee (DPC) has already been held against the three available vacancies of DSP posts and four inspectors of the Chandigarh police have already been considered for promotion.
 
 The administration had prayed before the HC for staying the judgement passed by CAT’s Chandigarh bench on April 26, 2017 and all subsequent orders.
 
 
