“Once you have tasted flight, you will forever walk the earth with your eyes turned skyward for there you have been, and there you will always long to return” — That’s how Leonardo Da Vinci described the experience of flying. The majority of those who attended this year’s International   Festival, agrees wholeheartedly.

 The event, which will be on till February 18, has been, organised by the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) and the Department of Tourism. Held at the view point in Kolahalamedu, it is giving adventure enthusiasts the adrenaline rush of flying, with paragliding flights that last close to 20 minutes — all the while soaking in the view of the picturesque hills and the Pine Valley of  .
 
 Mumbai-based Poonam Pareek, a risk consultant in an MNC, tried her hand at paragliding for the first time at the event a few weeks ago, during her solo trip to Kerala. She says, “I have tried it before, but I went through a range of emotions. I was scared before taking off because not many people knew I was here. But the pilot made me comfortable, telling me there was nothing to worry. We were 4,000 ft above the ground and the view was amazing! By the time we landed, I was jumping with joy. It was an exhilarating experience.”
 
 Vinil Thomas, who leads the team of paragliding pilots, says that the viewpoint in Wagamon is one among the few top landing destinations in India. “To take off from the top of the hill and also land there, you need to be trained and it’s not easy for those who aren’t familiar with the terrain and the wind conditions. However, as we have been flying for the past 14 years, we have figured out the techniques,” he explains.
 
 Melvin Jose, one of the organisers, tells us, “To make the experience safer, we are doing only tandem flying currently, where the pilot accompanies the passenger and both are provided parachutes. We have three safe landing zones below the hill as well, in case there are wind variations.”
 
 However, for the thrill seekers, the pilots also carry a GoPro camera to capture the flying footage, and for those ready for adventure, the pilots perform stunts such as spiralling. However, for most of those who try paragliding, it’s all about the view, with the pilots coasting for the 2.5 km stretch covering the Pine Valley and the green meadows in the area.
 
 And most passengers find themselves relaxed mid-flight, reveals Vinil. “Those who start off scared relax when we are flying. There’s no engine or motor, and it’s the closest feeling to being a bird. At this height, the view sort of opens up and they truly savour it.”
 
  Athulya Nidhin, a software engineer from Kollam, agrees, saying, “Once you start flying, you literally get a bird’s eye view of the place. I did it in the late afternoon and luckily there was more wind then and I got to paraglide for close to 25 minutes.”
 
  Athulya had gone there with her family; however she was the only one who tried paragliding. To engage those not too keen on the experience, the organisers have also arranged other activities such as rope climbing, sky cycling, zorbing and Burma bridge crossing. Near the venue are also tourist attractions such as Urumbikkara hills, Marmala waterfalls, Pine Forest and Thangalpara. “The view from the Kolahalamedu itself is spellbinding,” says Melvin.
 
 Little surprise then that the number of visitors have gone up this year as compared to the previous editions of the festival that were organised, from 2006 onwards. Melvin says, “Currently we are getting nearly 60 bookings a day. Those interested will have to contact us. We follow up with them to fix weather-friendly dates. We won’t be able to fly if there are extreme variations in the wind conditions.”
 
 However, Vinil says that February provides optimal conditions for flying and they are expecting to see an increase in the number of visitors. “This is also the only spot in South India where paragliding is done commercially. The other nearest spot is in Pune, so a lot of people from Tamil Nadu and other nearby states are also coming in,” he says.
 
