Kolkata: When CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury targeted the ruling Trinamool and BJP in Kolkata on Thursday, calling them “enemies” at the state and national levels, he couldn’t make it convincing to a section of party ranks and sympathisers in Bengal who went with BJP in the recently held state rural polls to defeat TMC.

 This was the trend in as many as 10 districts — Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Dakshin Dinajpur, Nadia, Howrah, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Purulia, Bankura and West Burdwan — where local CPM leaders gave support to BJP candidates after a whole lot of youths and even party activists embraced the lotus to “teach a lesson” to Trinamool.
 
 CPM leaders from North Dinajpur and North 24 Parganas also pointed out at the two-day CPM state committee meeting that BJP got substantial votes among minorities in Chakulia and Deganga, when Trinamool is perceived to be championing the minority cause.
 
 Even as CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra told the meeting that some such leaders have been taken to task and the party will crack the whip on some more, CPM district leaders narrated the “torture and threat” candidates had been facing from the day of nomination till now from Trinamool — a feature the CPM general secretary called “murder of democracy”.
 
  In many areas, people went with BJP because they thought the “party in power at the Centre” can take on TMC, and not the Left. While Mishra referred to instances where CPM supporters gathered courage and gave the Trinamool a chase, the message didn’t reach everywhere. Instead, many CPM members left to join BJP for the sake of “security” in places where the ruling party has a near monopoly.
 
 BJP in Bengal has emerged as the second force as evident from the rural poll results and also in the municipal polls held eight months ago when CPM wants to mobilise the maximum possible votes against BJP. 
 
 Yechury sharing the stage with Congress leader Sonia Gandhi at Bengaluru the day before to throw up an anti-BJP Opposition, is not going down well with the ranks. “We are passing through difficult times. Our call to defeat Trinamool and BJP didn’t reach beyond the party area committees to the grassroots,” a CPM state committee member said.
 
 
