BENGALURU: The late-night assault by   MLA N A Haris’ son Mohammed Nalapad Haris and his friends on a fellow diner at Farzi Café on Saturday night has left the ruling Congress party red-faced. It is trying to ward off the political repercussions of the situation, ahead of the impending state assembly elections of 2018.

 Such has been the political aftermath, that within 12 hours of the incident, the Congress suspended Md Haris for six years from the party, and removed him as Youth Congress general secretary for Bengaluru city.
 
 In a statement on social media,   president G Parameshwara said: “Mohammed Haris Nalapad, Gen Sec of B'luru city Youth Congress, has been expelled from Congress party for 6 years. Atrocities in any form is not tolerated in @INCKarnataka. Legal actions have been taken against those responsible. The victim will be served justice.”
 
 However, using the assault as an “example” of Congress government misrule, the   has begun making it an election issue, with Haris being specifically targeted. The party has gone on the offensive, with two of its three party aspirants for the Shanthinagar seat taking to the streets in protest against Haris.
 
 While M Gowtham Kumar, BJP corporator from Jogupalya, was instrumental in getting the FIR registered against Md Haris and took the lead, the other BJP aspirant Vasudev Murthy said the “goonda raj” of Haris continues unabated in the constituency.
 
 “Having contested previously from Shanthinagar, I know first-hand that there have been several incidents in the past of Nalapad having brought in goonda raj in the constituency. Under Haris, the constituency has become a model assembly segment for drug mafia and rowdyism,” said Murthy.
 
 BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa also commented on the incident: “I am appalled at & strongly condemn the ghastly attack by Harrs son on innocent Vidwath. @CPBlr Police must arrest the culprit & his goons to restore public confidence in rule of law.   must counsel his absconding son to surrender.”
 
 According to the BJP, the incident has given the party a much needed platform in Bengaluru to target the sitting MLA and in turn, Congress misrule. “The Congress, with such incidents, is handing us issues on a platter and giving us an edge in the city,” said a party functionary.
 
 Early on Sunday, no sooner did news of Nalapad assaulting the victim break out, than chief minister Siddaramaiah had to personally take to social media to thwart any allegations of the government trying to protect the accused.
 
 “Offenders should be punished to the full extent of law, regardless of who they are. No less, no more. @CPBlr will take action as per law and bring the guilty to book,” Siddaramaiah said on Twitter.
 
 The situation is also likely to overshadow the Budget 2018-19 discussions at the legislature session on Monday, with the BJP and JD(S) scheduled to raise the matter.
 
 
