Patna: The confusion in the five-party Bihar NDA with regard to their respective stand on the bypolls to the Araria parliamentary and Jehanabad and   assembly seats came to the fore on Saturday, as the BJP asked the JD(U) led by CM Nitish Kumar to get proactively involved in the process.

 Till Saturday, the picture was that BJP would contest from Araria parliamentary and Bhabhua while the RLSP led by   minister Upendra Kushwaha and the HAM-S led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi were vying for the Jehanabad assembly seat. NDA’s other constituent LJP led by Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan is out of the picture. 
 
 RLSP national general secretary   told this newspaper over phone from Delhi: “RLSP is determined to contest the Jehanabad seat. Also, we are in NDA and the BJP should maintain its coalition dharma.” 
 
 Anand said the balance is tilted in favour of the RLSP for its candidate had lost the 2015 assembly election to   candidate Mundrika Singh Yadav, whose death has necessitated the bypoll.
 
 Earlier, JD(U) national president and CM Nitish Kumar had announced his party’s support to NDA candidates, implying that it was not interested even in fielding its candidate for any of the three seats. 
 
 While Nitish has remained indifferent to the inner tussle between the RLSP and HAM(S), state BJP chief Nityanand Rai and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi on Saturday dropped a bombshell.
 
 Without taking the name of CM Nitish, Rai said JD(U) being a bigger party than the BJP in the state “should show that it is proactively involved in the Bihar NDA affairs, which will help in presenting our united face to the electorate.” Rai did not say in as many words that JD(U) should contest the Jehanabad seat, but the implied meaning amounted to that, sources close to Rai admitted. 
 
 SuMo, on the other hand, said JD(U) should field its candidate. Modi and Manjhi also met to discuss the new situation.
 
 Meanwhile, the bypolls to the three seats are scheduled for March 11, while the last date for the filing of nomination papers is February 20. Also, the last date for the withdrawal of names is February 22. The situation in the NDA has already caused spiralling of speculations.
 
 
