MUMBAI: The Economic Offences Wing ( ) on Tuesday arrested builder   for allegedly cheating “innocent tenants” of a  . 

 The arrest comes after   had recently ordered the auction of Dixit’s flat at Matunga as well as his 58-acre property near Mahabaleshwar to complete the   project he began eight years ago. The HC had also expressed displeasure with the EOW for transferring the case to Matunga police. It said the police officer was unable to explain why the matter was transferred to the local police by EOW when the sum involved was more than Rs 3 crore. Usually, the EOW investigates economic offences exceeding Rs 3 crore.
 
 Dixit (57) was booked for cheating, forgery and breach of trust under IPC sections.
 
 According to the complaint filed with the EOW in 2016 by one of the tenants, Sunil Soi, Dixit had offered to redevelop their three-storey Shehnaz building in 2008, and said he had purchased the building from the original landlord, Musabhai Maniyar. 
 
 Dixit entered into an agreement with 21 tenants, including five shops, and promised to complete the redevelopment work in 34 months. In 2009, the tenants shifted to an alternative accommodation, after which Dixit demolished the structure.
 
 For a while, Dixit paid rent to the tenants to cover their costs for alternative accommodation but subsequently stopped. In 2015, the tenants learnt that Dixit had mortgaged the property to Dhiren Patel of Sanghoi Group and availed a Rs 10-crore loan. Later, it transpired that Patel had filed a suit against Dixit in the HC for failing to repay the loan and sought Rs 27 crore. Due to this litigation, Dixit and Patel filed a consent decree and a court receiver was appointed which gave all rights of the building to Patel. 
 
 “While filing the consent terms, Dixit did not inform that there was an agreement between him and the tenants who had to be rehabilitated in the new building. He took the loan from Patel and filed a consent term, and cheated the tenants by not completing the project,” an EOW officer said.
 
 
