CHENNAI: From fiery local flavours sold off push-carts to burp-inducing meals in its famed messes,   may be a haven for gastronomical indulgences, but their quality has now come under the spotlight with the district recording the least number of licenced food establishments in the state. 

 Data furnished by   shows that only 29% of Madurai's 27,357 food businesses are certified by the state as being safe and hygienic. In Chennai, which has 32,002 such establishments - the highest in the state - 54% is either licensed or registered. 
 
 The Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration of Food Business) Regulations, 2011, mandates a licence for any food business with an annual turnover of more than 2 lakh. Those with a lower turnover must register with the state food safety department. After eight extensions, the last deadline for acquiring licence expired in August 2016. 
 
  Last month, commissioner of food safety P Amudha hadgiven the go-ahead to crack down on establishments that don't apply for licences on or before December 31. In her latest communication, she has directed food safety officers across the state to step up awareness campaigns over the next two weeks before taking punitive measures. 
 
 "Our officials have fanned out to distribute pamphlets to unlicenced businesses. We are also maintaining a record of the exercise. This way, the owners can't claim they were unaware of the law when we take action," said RKathiravan, designated food safety officer, Chennai. 
 
 In March last year the food safety department undertook an enumeration and found a total of 5.43 lakh food establishments in the state, including pushcart vendors, retailers, provisional stores, bakeries, hostels, restaurants, fruits and vegetable shops and units that engage in making sweets and savouries. Of these, less than 50% has been certified by the department. Madurai fared the worst. 
 
 A food safety official in the district blamed it on the "corruption" among the inspectors. "Quite a few staff in the district were abruptly moved out after it was found that they had swindled money meant for awareness programmes," said a senior food safety official. A food safety inspector said the hotel owners in the district were politically backed. 
 
 
