CHANDIGARH: Amid controversy and arguments, the general house of the municipal corporation passed the policy guidelines for the management of the city’s community centres and ‘janj ghars’, finally. Former mayor  , himself in controversy over the locking of a new community centre in his ward, explained the crucial clauses.

 A major decision taken during the meeting was that the charges for using the community centres will not be increased. Besides, even children who have turned 16 are eligible to become members. The house has also agreed to the give out the air-conditioned and non-AC rooms on rent to generate income out of the community centres.
 
 The house decided that only area municipal councillor will have the authority to verify the members and decides who gets to use the community centres. Earlier, the respective station house officer (SHO) of police and the subdivisional magistrate (SDM) also had this authority, which they lost on Monday. Though the municipal commissioner will approve the minutes of the meetings about the functioning of these community centres, religious functions will be banned at the community centres.
 
 Since the community centres for Sectors 37 and 38 are newly constructed, area councillor and former mayor Arun Sood said the terrace rights of both buildings will be with the management, a clause which was opposed by the other members of the house. “Since registered members of the local RWA (resident welfare association) have been paying the membership fee, they have the right to use the terrace but it should remain with the management, or else the purpose will be defeated. Though the halls, lawns, and kitchen can be booked by anybody to hold a function,” Sood said.
 
 Speaking on the issue,   councillor   said: “If I (as a citizen from another ward) want to hold a function on the terrace of the Sector 37 community centre by paying the amount, I should be allowed.” The mayor also raised the same point but Sood remained adamant on this restricted terrace rights.
 
 
