MYSURU: Roadside dhabas, especially those which dish out PunjabI fare, are much favoured by night travellers. These dhabas are generally open till the early hours of the morning, But, they're now bearing the brunt of the model code of conduct. According to dhaba owners, since the code came into force, they are being asked to shut down by 10pm. 

  According to tourist vehicle drivers and travellers, since March last week, most dhabas have not been serving food late at night or early morning due to fear of police action. This means, night travellers are either forced to carry food parcels or stop near the   bus terminus where a limited menu is available. 
 
  Ramesh Guru, a techie from Bengaluru, said he and his friends would look forward to having dhaba food during night journeys on major highways, especially the Bengaluru-Maddur-Mysuru-Madikeri or Bengaluru-Kottigehara-Mangaluru routes. "Now, food is not available in most dhabas after 10.30pm. In a few places, only a few snacks and tea are offered on the quiet," he said. 
 
  Ramesh, owner of New Roti Land Dhaba, Ring Road, Mysuru, said: "After the polls were announced, we signed a police undertaking that we won't serve food and drinks beyond the time stipulated. These days, we're shutting the dhaba by 9.30pm. I've also instructed staff not to keep the dhaba open beyond the stipulated time." 
 
  Santosh, owner of  , said, "We close the place by 10.30pm. We're strictly following the   rules and regulations and police directions." 
 
  Another dhaba owner, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said food is the major attraction at any dhaba. "Since the implementation of the model code of conduct, authorities are carrying out multiple inspections. We don't want to get into any trouble and therefore, we're shutting by 10pm. We're losing around Rs 4,000 every day," he said. 
 
  According to G Radhika, SP, Mandya, many dhabas are infamous for illegal activities like distribution of money and liquor during elections. "Food joints are divided into various categories. Dhabas are vulnerable to illegal activities and police are coming down heavily on them," she said. 
 
 
