NASHIK: The state has so far settled around 50% of community forest rights (CFR) to tribals ever since the Forest Rights Act came into existence in 2006. 

 CFR is a vital component of this Act that seeks to secure tribals' rights over traditionally accessed and managed forest land and community forest resources.
 
 The latest data compiled by the Union ministry of tribal affairs to the Dindori   MP  , stated that of the 11,408 community claims that the state received, 5,748 claims were recognised.
 
 Chavan raised the issue at the ongoing session of Parliament, asking whether the Centre has set any deadline for all states to grant tribals and other traditional forest dwellers legal title of the land traditionally used by them. He also questioned whether the Centre has sought any explanation from states about instances in delay while settling the community claims of the tribals.
 
 The data shows that apart from  , states like Uttar Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand have settled over 50% of the claims of the total applications received by these respective state governments.
 
 Interestingly, one of the major demands in the six-day long march from Nashik to Mumbai was to grant land titles to tribal farmers of the state under the Forest Rights Act. They had been cultivating the land for generations. Chavan said that despite a decade after the enactment of the Forest Rights Act, 2006 only 16% of the total potential of community forest rights and community rights in the country were settled.
 
 Citing data from 21 states, the Union minister of state for tribal affairs   told Chavan that till November 30 last year, 64,328 CFR claims have been recognised in the country as against a total of 1,39,266 CFR claims received.
 
 "The ministry regularly monitors the progress in the distribution of title deeds across all states. A regular update is sought from all states in the form of the Monthly Progress Report (MPR) that also helps identify the high or low performing states and specific need for interventions," the Union minister said.
 
 He said his ministry had written to the principal secretaries of states that had been identified as low performing, seeking justification of their current status. They were also asked to undertake a suo moto review of rejected claims to ensure that no wrongful rejections are made. "The ministry has also written to the chief secretaries of the state governments where rejections of   claims are very high since 2014, directing them to mandatorily review such claims. To encourage speedier implementation of the Act, funds to undertake crucial prerequisite works such as public awareness building, support for evidence collection, mapping and demarcation, land measurements, use of space technology (in support of evidences), other administrative expenses, etc. are provided by the ministry," stated Bhagat.
 
 
