KOLKATA: The   ( ) on Monday issued a no-objection, allowing the city’s tallest tower, The 42, to rise to its full height, and giving hope of a similar reprieve to another skyscraper in New Town. After initially giving permission, the aviation regulatory body had wanted both buildings to lower their heights over flight safety fears.

 Until the AAI’s green light came in, the 68-floor The 42 on the  , next to  , had faced the prospect of having its top 12 floors being chopped off to meet the revised height limit.
 
 The other skyscraper, the 141m The V Kolkata, has had the sledghehammer positioned precariously over the top five of its 30 floors. 
 
 “We are happy that the embargo on the top floors of The 42 has been removed,” said a relieved Amar Nath Shroff, chairman of Alcove Realty, a partner in the project.
 
 Though AAI had originally cleared the proposed building up to a height of 260m in 2011, when the developers applied for a renewal of the NOC in 2016, it rejected it and reset the height to 198m, shaving 62m off. 
 
 The fate of The V Kolkata has been hanging in the balance for over five years now. In 2009, AAI permitted Srishti to construct two identical towers of 141m each. But when the developer went back for an extension to the five-year NOC, it was asked to slash the height of one tower by around 15m. Promoters of both projects had moved Delhi high court following the new height curb. They argued that the AAI curb was arbitrary and defied logic as it had originally approved the projects.
 
 The Airports Authority of India Act, 1994, requires tall buildings to get plans approved by AAI, which issues NOC for five years, usually extended for three years. But in a departure from the usual practice, AAI revised the approved height when these projects sought extension. “The location of a radar and a VHF Omni Directional Radio Range were shifted in the airport, requiring a fresh assessment. Both buildings were obstructing signals. Had the construction been over, we would have had to accept them,” said an AAI official.
 
 While The 42 had completed 90% of the project when the curb order came, The V Kolkata was under construction. Äs the developers argued, while 20-storeyed high-rises could be completed in five years, taller projects required more time. “Getting project approvals and construction of the foundation of a tall building can take two-three years. To expect the rest of the construction to be completed in another couple of years is impractical,” a developer pointed out.
 
 AAI reconsidered The 42’s case and extended the original NOC by three years till 2018. “The revised NOC with a lower building height issued on March 14, 2017, stands cancelled,” an AAI official said.
 
  
  
 
 
