The gradual but steady deterioration of Singanallur tank is slowly coming to light with activists stepping up their initiative to protect the waterbody. The activists recently found out that the tank originally had three sluice gates, but now there are only two. One of the sluice gates, they believe, might have been demolished or buried by encroachers.

 Scientists working on the lake said there were three sluice gates and two weirs in the lake. All these sluice gates have great environmental value as they help in flood mitigation, irrigation and diverting excess water into the river. But over the years, as the agricultural land around the lake reduced, the sluice gates were not being put to use. Encroachments and anti-social elements have damaged and blocked almost all outlet channels.
 
 At present only two sluice gates - one on the eastern and the other on the southern bund - can be found. The third one, on the southern side, is missing. Even the ones that exist have been blocked and are in a damaged condition. One of the weirs too is in a dilapidated condition. "This is very dangerous because in case of floods or excess rain, the water will enter human habitations," said Joseph Reginald, member of the Centre for Urban Biodiversity conservation and education. Other experts and scientists also said the channels and lake outlets were very important to lake conservation.
 
 Over the years, fishing contractors have blocked the lake outlets to prevent fish from leaving the water body and encroachers have blocked channels and built houses, raising concern among environmentalists.
 
 When public works department officials were informed about this, they said they had handed over maintenance of the lake to corporation officials. "In case of floods, there is a weir that will allow water to overflow into the Noyyal river," said Shanmugaraja, assistant engineer in-charge for Singanallur lake.
 
 Corporation officials, when contacted, said the lake will be developed under the smart city project. 
 
 "Over the past decades, the public works department has not taken any step to develop the lake due to funds crunch. So we took over the lake maintenance. We have slowly begun the conservation process," said a corporation engineer.
 
 Environmentalists pointed out that about 750 acres farmland located around the lake was being cultivated. 
 
 "In case of a flood similar to the one Chennai experienced in December 2015, all crops will be destroyed. Steps should be taken to remove encroachments around the channels and repair the sluice gates," said a volunteer.
 
 
