In this age of online shopping when everything under the sun is just a click away, life is definitely getting easier. But what is becoming more and more difficult is figuring out the perfect gift for loved ones. With people having easy access to everything, finding that perfect something is still no mean task. But, there’s one thing that never goes out of fashion and we can never have enough of — love, affection and thoughtfulness. So, with Mother’s Day ( ) almost upon us, if you’re still wondering how to make the best woman in your life feel special without ending up buying her stuff that she might already have or is of little use to her, gift her your thoughts. Here’s how...

 
  
 
 
 Mom is the one who turns your house into a home. Thank her for all the little things that she does to retain the warmth of your home sweet home. What do you get? Flower pot, customised mug, customised coasters, fridge magnet with picture, scented candle, wall hanging and wall art. 
 Buy at: Make It Matter @ Rs 3,500
 
 
  
 
 
 Thank her for helping you grow with this super-cute flower pot. Customise it with a picture from the good ol’ days. 
 Buy at: Make It Matter @ Rs 600
 
 
  
 
 
 Turn the tables and give her a break from the kitchen. Take her by surprise with her favourite dishes. Deliver a gourmet platter of delicious food with the most   messages along with a heartfelt letter right on her doorstep! 
 Buy at: Outbox @ Rs 1,800
 
 
 
  
 
 
 We know love is exaggerated but never when it comes to moms. Say that you love her with this cutesy gift that can be customised with a special note and a memorable pic of the both of you.
 Buy at: Seize The Day @ Rs 1,600
 
 
  
 
 
 Two minutes is all it takes to make someone’s day. Make use of this opportunity to tell her everything that you had almost said but never did.
 Buy at: Seize The Day @ Rs 1,100
 
 
 
  
 
 
 It is because of her that you’ve grown up to become the person you are. And what better way to express your gratitude for that than saying it with a bunch 
 of plants?
 Buy at: Seize The Day @ Rs 2,000
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Not a day goes by when she doesn’t whip up breakfast for you. Return the gesture by donning the chef’s cap this Mother’s Day. Well, you don’t really have to do the cooking but you can always set up a platter with her favourite breakfast and see her smile from ear to ear. Comes with breakfast, bottle of juice/milk/tea/coffee, a frame, flowers in a jar, cupcakes and a card.
 Buy at: Make It Matter @ Rs 3,000
 
 
 
  
 
 
 You scream, I scream, we all scream for ice cream! There’s surely no better way to cool off than having a scoop of your favourite 
 ice cream on a sultry day. This ice cream platter comes with 
 everything that you need to make some a rich sundae for mommy dearest — cones, chocolate sauce, sprinkles, jelly, nuts and more. 
 Buy at: Popcorn @ Rs 1,500
 
 
  
 
 
 For all those nights when she stayed up so you could sleep and those endless hours of running around doing chores just for you, a day of relaxation is the best thing you could gift you mom. Let her unwind with a relaxing foot massage right on her doorstep as she goes through a personalised letter where you pour your heart out to her. 
 Buy at: Outbox @ Rs 1,499
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Who said only kids love chocolates? Get a customised chocolate bar for the mom with a sweet tooth and tell her that she rocks like no one else.
 Buy at: Outbox @ Rs 250
 
 
 
  
 
 
 They say chocolates contain chemicals that uplift your mood and make you happy. Then why look any further to make your mom’s day? Get her one of these customised cakes in her favourite flavour and make up for all those moments when you missed having her by your side. 
 Buy at: All Krazy for Chocolates, Kookie Jar and Mrs Magpie outlets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
