A key element of BJP’s win was to snatch CPM’s winning card — its dependence on 20 ‘tribal’ seats — giving a runaway lead in the elections and turning it into a BJP strike weapon. The conditions were ripe for this as tribals were feeling sidelined and were deeply resentful of their organisations being branded ‘terrorist’ outfits even as the Left cultivated infiltrators from Bangladesh.

 The alliance with the   gelled and BJP ensured that CPM’s attempts to scare   by invoking possible violence against them if the NDA won did not work.
 
 BJP focussed on assuring safety for all and kept attacking CPM for encouraging an illegal influx from Bangladesh at the cost of all residents of Tripura. The Left’s divide and rule did not work.
 
 The slogan of “chalo paltai” went beyond just “parivartan” and was an active call for change. It was a commitment by voters to change their circumstances. The hard work of the RSS and organisations like Vanvasi Kalyan Kendra was important in bringing the tribals to the BJP fold. Their pent up anger was channelled constructively as a vote for BJP rather than Congress which lost all currency.
 
 The tipping point of the campaign came when PM Narendra Modi addressed no less than four rallies in a small state. BJP president Amit Shah lent his full support, pitting the Sangh ideology against CPM, which could only unfurl a list of demands for the Centre to fulfil.
 
 In Ram Madhav and Sunil Deodhar, BJP had the services of leaders who understood the north-east well.
 
 Once BJP began making inroads into the tribal vote, and urban sentiment swung towards the party, CPM diminished rapidly. Its sense of invincibility was eroded and BJP persisted despite attacks on workers. This was crucial given the history of intimidation and voting by illegals, some brought across the border ahead of polls. It hurt CPM that it had only implemented the fourth pay commission while speaking of workers’ rights. Government employees had seen through the duplicity and the low daily wage was rankling many.
 
 The monitoring of elections by the Election Commission and use of CCTVs helped ensure a fair election. Lastly, the youth backed BJP strongly, voting for the PM’s promise of development.
 
 
 . (
 
 
