KOCHI : Four more police officers – North Paravur circle inspector Crispin Sam, Varapuzha sub inspector Deepak G S, grade sub inspector Sudheer and senior civil police officer Santhosh Baby – were suspended from service on Thursday for the custodial death of S R Sreejith in Varapuzha, Ernakulam.

 The officers were suspended for official misconduct and dereliction of duty based on a preliminary report filed by the special investigation team. IG (Kochi range) Vijay Sakhare said they would also face a departmental inquiry.
 
 Three civil police officers – Jithin Raj, Santhosh Kumar and Sumesh – who picked up Sreejith from his house were suspended from service earlier.
 
 SIT visits Varapuzha, four more officers suspended
 
 Four more police officers, including the inspector of North Paravur circle, were suspended on Thursday in connection with the April 9 custodial death of S R Sreejith.
 
 With the suspension of circle inspector Crispin Sam, Varapuzha sub-inspector Deepak G S, grade ASI Sudheer and senior CPO Santosh Baby, the number of officers suspended so far has gone up to seven.
 
 Inspector-general (Kochi range) placed the officers under suspension, pending inquiry, for official misconduct and dereliction of duty based on a preliminary report filed by the special investigation team.
 
 “The duration of suspension is not specified but they will be kept away from the force long enough to avoid them influencing the inquiry. A separate inquiry by Kochi city narcotics cell ACP Krishna Kumar would be held as part of departmental action. Criminal investigation is done by the SIT, which is separate,” Vijay Sakhare, IG, said.
 
 Sources said Sreejith was in police custody for more than 24 hours and the   failed to report the man’s injuries while recording his arrest or preparing the remand report. The other three officers failed to report Sreejith’s worsening physical condition.
 
 Earlier on Thursday, SIT head IG S Sreejith visited the residences of Sreejith and   at Devaswompadam in Varapuzha and recorded the statements of their relatives. The special team also collected evidence from the Varapuzha police station.
 
 IG Sreejith said a fair probe would be conducted into the incident.
 
 SIT sources said the team would also probe an incident involving Divakaran, the younger brother of the deceased Vasudevan, in which one Sumesh sustained a fracture on his arm. The team would also probe the attack on Vasudevan’s residence and his subsequent suicide.
 
 Meanwhile, rural police sources refuted the allegation that Sreejith had suffered serious injuries when he was taken to the taluk hospital on Tuesday.
 
 However, the state human rights commission acting chairman, P Mohanadas, after visiting the police station on Thursday, said Sreejith was tortured in custody “Sreejith had no mentionable problems when he was brought to the (taluk) hospital. However, he was in police custody till he was taken to Aster Medcity later. It was the police who admitted him to that hospital. Hence, it can be understood that the torture happened while he was in custody,” Mohanadas said.
 
 Meanwhile, the son of witness said his father was made to give a statement under duress. According to Sharath, his father P M Parameswaran, secretary of the CPM’s local branch committee, was not present at the scene when the attack on Vasudevan’s house took place.   had earlier stated that he had seen Sreejith at the scene.
 
 Meanwhile, kin of around 8 persons arrested in connection with the suicide of Vasudevan alleged that police have foisted false cases against them.“My son and others have been made scapegoats. They have been painted as BJP and RSS activists by certain vested interests for political gains,” said Kala, mother of Vinu TV, the fourth accused in the case.
 
 A relative of the 13th accused said the   portraying the youths as drug peddlers and alcoholics.They also alleged that the deceased Vasudevan and his brothers are goons with criminal backgrounds.
 
