It was an embarrassment for chief minister   after he had to shunt out Panvel municipal commissioner  . It is believed that Fadnavis succumbed to mounting pressure from Prashant Thakur, an erstwhile   leader who is now a   legislator. 

 Shinde, the brother of water conservation minister Ram Shinde, who was posted as Panvel's first civic chief, was at loggerheads with Thakur. But he failed to realise Thakur's clout. In the Panvel belt, BJP became a respectable force only after Thakur, along with his father Ramseth, a former Lok Sabha MP, joined the party. 
 
 When Thakur began to move a no-confidence motion against Shinde, a message was conveyed to him that any such move will be embarrassing for the BJP leadership, particularly the CM, and that the proposal should be abandoned in the party's larger interest. Nevertheless Panvel BJP leaders moved the no-confidence motion and it was passed with a huge majority.
 
 It was alleged that Shinde was an arrogant officer and developmental works in the Panvel civic corporation had come to a halt. Under the rules, the no-confidence motion was submitted to the urban development department led by the CM for approval. In a three-page explanation, the government rejected the proposal saying Shinde's services were required for Panvel's development. But for Shinde, it was a short-lived joy-in less than 24 hours he was shunted to an "insignificant" post as the head of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Public Health Scheme.
 
 Shinde's unceremonious exit is being viewed as a major victory for Prashant Thakur. A BJP minister said Prashant Thakur is more important than Shinde, particularly in view of the ensuing elections to Lok Sabha and state assembly.
 
 
 
 Ahmednagar sessions court judge S U Baghele has set a new benchmark after he sentenced a section engineer to 10 years' rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 85 lakh after he was caught accepting a bribe of Rs 1.48 lakh from a contractor. When judge Baghele imposed a fine of Rs 35 lakh for one offence and Rs 50 lakh for another,   officials did not believe it since it was for the first time in recent history that such a heavy penalty was imposed on a government official. After the verdict was pronounced, a senior ACB official visited the special court to confirm if the fine amount was indeed correct. The highlight of the case was that the ACB submitted the chargesheet in a record time and judge Baghele disposed it of on top priority. It was found that after an offence under the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against the section engineer, the chargesheet was filed in less than two months. There were fewer adjournments, as a result the final verdict was delivered quickly. Judge Baghele praised the ACB for evidence gathering and effective use of technology.
 
 The investigating officer took every step carefully and he was able to secure a conviction. "ACB sleuths did their homework properly and used the new technology to ensure conviction. The landmark order will go a long way in tackling corruption," said former DGP Pravin Dixit.
 
