JAIPUR:   on Tuesday asked the various government departments to file separate affidavits enumerating the steps taken to comply with its orders on removal of encroachments on water bodies along with affidavits by May 3, the next hearing. 

 The court also directed that the state chief secretary to monitor the case and also warned that any false affidavit by the officials would invite action under Section 340 of the Cr.PC as very often it was found that action on court orders remained only on paper and ground reality is different.
 
 The division bench of   and Justice DC Somnai had summoned about a dozen senior officials heading the various departments to the court on Tuesday afternoon in connection with the compliance of its order in May 2012 on revival of the   dam at Jamwa Ramgarh in Jaipur. The court said officials were summoned to the court to 'sensitize' them on the issue as the court found that the government approach has been very 'casual'.
 
 "Rampant encroachment on the water bodies and its catchment areas and the pollution caused to water bodies due to the discharge of effluents is causing immense harm to the eco-system and health of the people but government seems to be not bothered about it," the court observed.
 
 The court also said that on the one hand people are suffering from scarcity of safe drinking water as underground water is not drinkable in most part of the state while on the other hand the water bodies are subject to rampant abuse due to encroachment and pollution. The court said Sewerage Treatment Plants (STPs) are the need of the hour in every town, big or small, so that the water bodies are not subjected to pollution from sewerage.
 
 The court pulled up the CEO of the   (JMC) who could not give a proper reply to the question of the pollution of Kanota reservoir despite an STP was set up at Jaisingpura Khor.
 
 CEO , JMC , Ravi Jain said that despite a 50 MLD capacity STP was set up there, about 15 MLD of untreated water is flowed down to the Kanota dam due to a land dispute case pending in the  .
 
 He tried to clarify that the JMC could not lay new pipeline and also could not repair old one due to a stay from the Supreme Court. But it was found to be wrong as JMC was not a party to the petition. The court also said the state pollution control board failed to discharge its duty. Court observed that the PCB should have taken action against the errant officials found violating the pollution laws.
 
 The court said the revenue department; UDH and JDA were equally guilty as they have given permission for land use change and issues pattas on the catchment areas of the reservoirs while the environment and forest department and rural development to construct check dams on water bodies have done more harm than good. This has resulted in the drying up of the water bodies.
 
 
