HYDERABAD: In a rare show of solidarity, the BJP and the TDP backed the Congress on the issue of suspension of its members in the Assembly and Council. The expulsion of two Congress members and suspension of 11 MLAs and six MLCs enraged the opposition parties so much that they took a united stand against the ruling TRS government taking such extreme actions.

 BJP floor leader  , who earlier in the day criticized the government on the floor of the house, later held a meeting with BJP legislators in the legislature party office on the future course of action. Former TDP MLA A Revanth Reddy, who is now with the Congress, was spotting going into Kishan Reddy’s room where he reportedly discussed the suspension issue.
 
 Later, Kishan Reddy, BJP legislators Ch Ramachandra Reddy and N V S S Prabhakar, accompanied by TDP MLAs R Krishnaiah and Sandra Venkata Veeraiah, jointly addressed a press conference. With TDP president   pulling out his two ministers from the   government and two BJP ministers quitting the TDP ministry in   still fresh on people’s minds, the BJP and TDP sharing a single platform against the TRS proved significant.
 
 “If chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expects us to sing his praises, we will not do it. The action against the Congress is not right. The suspensions should be revoked unconditionally,” Kishan Reddy said. He also faulted KCR for commenting that the BJP was veering towards the Congress. “It is KCR who started off his political career in the Congress, not us,” he retorted.
 
 TDP’s R Krishnaiah said that going by the TRS’ behaviour, it was possible that such extreme action would be taken against every opposition party. “The assembly sessions will then be conducted in Pragati Bhavan and  ,” he commented.
 
 Kishan Reddy was also furious that while   MLA   was allowed to talk for 15 minutes, he was interrupted in less than three minutes, including once by the chief minister. He said the BJP had boycotted the day’s session because of the government’s attitude on the suspensions.
 
