GURUGRAM: The city needs a long-term plan to keep a check on both demand and supply, and strike an optimum balance between the two sides, instead of merely creating more and more spaces for parking, say mobility experts.

 
 Experts that TOI spoke to said the assumption that providing more parking spaces would address the issue of illegal or unauthorised parking was highly misplaced. Instead of addressing the problems and freeing up the roads, any unplanned increase would rather create an insatiable and unreasonable demand for parking spaces, eating into prime land in highly populated residential or business hubs.
 
 Anumita Roychowdhury of Centre for  , who is also a member on the   parking committee, says Gurugram urgently needs a parking policy and a parking area plan.
 
 The plan will identify areas where the government can provide parking facilities, and accordingly, those areas can be demarcated, she said. “The state government needs to come with a policy, dividing Gurugram into four zones, and then provide for parking spaces in each zone. At the same time, it must ensure that the policy is strictly enforced and there is no illegal parking outside the earmarked zones,” she explained.
 
 Once the parking lots are allotted, Anumita added, rates need to be fixed appropriately to promote use of public transport. Free parking will only encourage people to take out their cars, instead of using public transport.“There cannot be infinite parking in any city. Therefore, the government must promote shared parking — it may open up such facilities in commercial buildings and malls for general public,” she said.
 
 The National Urban Transport Policy, 2006, also provides some guidelines for the state governments to work out their own parking policies. The central policy says a high parking fee should be charged to make car use less attractive; the fees should be reflective of the land value used for parking; and public transport vehicles and   should be given preference while allocating  .
 
 Navdeep  , traffic advisor to the Punjab government, said if the authorities focus only on demand management, their efforts, in turn, may end up choking every city road. “And 10 years down the line, with this kind of uncontrolled rise in the number of vehicles, we would need two Gurugrams — one for parking and another for living.” 
 
 “We need to focus on the supply side by switching to other mode of transportation, which is equally or more attractive to people and is backed by a comprehensive parking policy. Any ad-hoc approach will choke the city forever,” Asija said.
 
 Asija also stressed the need for the   government to come up with a parking policy immediately, on the lines of Punjab (which has recently introduced a parking policy), Pune and Chennai.
 
 Sarika Panda of WRI India, who worked on the ‘car-free day’ concept with local authorities in Gurugram earlier, echoed Asija. “We need to understand that the only way to tackle the ever-growing demand for parking spaces is to discourage the use of cars and promote public transport. Free parking is always going to increase the problems,” said Panda.
 
 And once the policy is in place, the government needs to ensure its strict implementation so that public land is not used for illegal parking.
 
 What in your opinion is the best way to stop illegal roadside parking? Write at toi.in/GGID or email us at toi.Gurugram@timesgroup.com
 
