BHOPAL: A drastic rise was marked in the number of drunk-driving cases over the past year on New Year eve. Strict checking campaign - 'Zero tolerance' - was carried by city police to crack down on boozers driving vehicles. 

 The campaign finally resulted into 183 Bhopalis falling in the police nets while celebrating New Year. Count of offenders increased by 26 times as compared to last year's records when only seven boozers were caught while driving on December 31, 2016. 
 
 Maximum number of drink-driving cases this year was registered in Habibganj area during the police drive. With 46 drink-driving cases, the area - including Misrod, Kolar and Gulmohar locality - topped the list. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 While Bhopal bus-stand - including Hamidia road area - stood second in the list with 34 such cases and Prabhat Petrol pump area - including Ratnagiri locality - stood third with 28 cases.
 
 Armed with breath analysers, the cops carried a campaign of 'Zero Tolerance' on New Year eve and checked the commuters. Cops caught 183 people driving drunk till the first sunrise of the New Year across the city.
 
 Drink-driving checks were conducted right from early evening hours at prime areas including Lal Ghati square, Ret Ghat trisection, Nadra bus stand, Bhopal Talkies road, Bharat Talkies road, Prabhat square and Alpana trisection.
 
 The drive also covered Board Office square, Ganesh Mandir opposite to Habibganj railway crossing, Bhadbhada square, Roshanpura square,   square,  , Manisha Market and Kolar trisection. 
 
 As per police, around 3,138 vehicles were checked from 8pm to 3am across the city. During the check, 183 cases of drink-driving were caught. Traffic police ASP Mahendra Jain said, "Force of over 250 traffic cops was deployed at Habibganj, Hamidia road, Prabhat petrol pump, Jehangirabad, Bairagarh, Roshanpura, Nishatpura and Chunabhatti. 
 
 As per police records, around 17 drivers were found drink during the check at Bairagarh and Lalghati, around 19 drivers were found drunk at Roshanpura and Board Office, three in  , four in Nishatpura, three in  , two in Bajaria and one in Chunabhatti area during the police check. 
 
 While police charged Rs 1,41,750 from around 385 people for violating other traffic rules including using mobile while driving, black filmed windows, vehicle without number and driving in restricted area.
 
 ASP Zone 2 Hitesh Chaudhary said, "Police was able to control the traffic and hardly any life threatening accident took place in the city on New Year eve."
 
 
