Manju Warrier’s sports drama Karimkunnam Sixes, told the story of a lady sports coach on a mission to form a volleyball team of jail inmates. It looks like the film is turning real; albeit with a cricket team instead. Marking a new chapter in the history of the neighbours, the   is organising a cricket match between a team comprising officials and prisoners from Kerala and prison officials from Sri Lanka. The T20 match will be held on January 21 at the Sports Hub Trivandrum, Karyavattom.

 Inspired by the developmental activities of the   department for their inmates, the   department officials had planned a visit to the capital city this month. Meanwhile, the Lankan officials also suggested a friendly cricket match between them and Kerala prison officers. It was jail DGP R Sreelekha who put forward the idea that jail inmates too should be part of the match. “The cricket match was meant to be a token of the friendly relationship between the two jail departments. I wanted to include the inmates as I felt it will be a new experience for them,” says Sreelekha.
 
 Assisting her in the venture is Prisons DIG B Pradeep, who is also the director of the   (SICA). “I have been entrusted with the job of conducting the preparations for the match between the two teams. We had published a circular to prisons of the three zones — Kannur, Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram, last month. The response was overwhelming, and along with the officials, the inmates also enrolled for the selections. We have around 20 to 25 members from each of the three zones, including those from Cheemeni Open Jail in Kasaragod. To help us in the venture, the   (KCA) also chipped in by arranging selectors and coaches.”
 
 Explaining the procedure of the selection, Pradeep says that the final 20 who were short-listed were invited for a camp at the KCA owned cricket ground at Mangalore last week. “The members are all excited about the match. All of them gave their best during the camp. Out of the 20, 13 are officials and rest, inmates, who are convicted for different crimes. To finalise the 11-member team for the match, we will hold a coaching camp from January 9 to 19, with the assistance of the KCA. The venue may be the Thumba St. Xavier's College ground or Mangalore, according to the availability,” he says. 
 
 The DIG is positive that the match will be therapeutic for the inmates. “We practise custody, correction and rehabilitation for the prisoners. By including them as team members, we hope to instil in them team spirit and a sense of oneness. Some of the convicts recalled their childhood days when they used to play cricket.”
 
 KCA president B Vinod welcomes the match, saying, “We are glad to be part of the game. It is for the first time that we are initiating such an empowering move for the prisoners. We are just the facilitators by providing cricket kits and coaches for them. 
 
 
