MANALI: Even though hunting of Himalayan monal (lophophorus impejanus) species is banned since 1982, there has been little check on poaching of the former state bird of Himachal Pradesh.

 Bird’s crest feather is easily available and people of Kullu still use it to decorate their caps during festivals, marriages and big events.
 
 Though the wildlife department claims that no case of monal poaching has been reported in the recent years, goldsmiths here continue to get orders from local residents to make ornaments for caps with monal crest. Such ornaments are available in houses mostly in villages. People give the crest to goldsmith who fits it with the gold or silver fixed on the cap.
 
 Speaking on the condition of anonymity, a resident who has got two such caps said: “I got these caps made a few years back during the wedding of my son. This is our culture. The monal crest is fitted even to palanquins of our deities. This is auspicious and symbol of respect. We do not don the cap with crest all the time, but only during special occasion. The crest itself is rare and one has to pay a huge amount to get it. That is why, it is decorated with gold or silver jewellery.”
 
 People wearing monal crest can be easily seen in a typical marriage in Kullu. A person, who had posted his picture on   donning a cap with monal crest, said he found the crest lying in forest area. Many others claim they were gifted the feathers by their friends or relatives.
 
 “Generally people do not sell it. They keep it for themselves. It is precious and rare. Its main source can be poachers, but people generally do not know from where to get it. I received one fitted with silver from a goldsmith in the village,” another resident said.
 
 Male monal, which is colourful like peacock, has become an endangered species at some places, including Kullu. Kullu is notorious for its poaching for two reasons –– for its meat and crest feather.
 
 The bird prefers to stay in deep forests, away from humans. In winters, it comes down to lower areas when peaks receive snow and becomes victim to poaching. Its breeding has remained a mystery.
 
 Himachal government built first monal breeding centre at Manali where a kardi (female monal) had laid three eggs. An egg has hatched but the chick died in a few days. Wildlife department is still studying the behaviour of this colourful pheasant to control its dwindling number.
 
 Divisional forest officer (wildlife)   said using monal crest feather as ornament is illegal and punishable. “The department is doing everything possible to control poaching. No case of monal poaching has come into our notice for a long time,” he said.
 
 
