NEW DELHI: Reacting to the Election Commission’s reported decision recommending disqualification of 20   MLAs for holding an office of profit, BJP on Friday sought resignation of chief minister  . “As it was Kejriwal’s decision to appoint 20 MLAs as parliament secretaries, he should own moral responsibility and resign,” said party spokesperson Sambit Patra at a press conference.

 He observed that the 20 MLAs were on the verge of disqualification, 12 had been arrested and half of Kejriwal’s cabinet had to quit for different reasons. “However, the   decision is unprecedented showing arrogance among the AAP leaders and its president, Kejriwal,” he added.
 
 Patra said AAP had its origin in an anti-corruption campaign but several cases, including the EC recommendation to disqualify the MLAs, showed that they were most corrupt. “AAP had emerged from ‘India Against Corruption’. But the party has turned into ‘I Am Corruption’ in a very short span of time,”Patra alleged.
 
 He accused the chief minister of acting like a dictator, saying “the party and the government function on the basis of (whatever he says). But for the first time, the Constitution has shown him the mirror in a big way."
 
 While Patra’s own party, which has just four legislators in the  , called it a moral defeat for the chief minister and demanded his resignation, it regretted the delay.   chief Manoj Tiwari said, “We welcome the decision. It is a moral defeat for the CM. He should take responsibility and resign. We regret that the Election Commission of India allowed undue adjournments to AAP MLAs which has cost dearly to the people of Delhi.”
 
 Vijender Gupta, leader of the opposition in the assembly, said the government has a lot to answer. “The AAP government must answer to people for its political impropriety as its actions have led Delhi to the possibility of mid-term elections,” he said.
 
 BJP said the appointment of 21 parliamentary secretaries was a move by the ruling AAP to keep its party from disintegrating after Yogendra Yadav and Prashant Bhushan left. “As per constitutional provisions, there cannot be more than seven ministers in Delhi. But by appointing 21 parliamentary secretaries, Kejriwal tried to prevent AAP from disintegrating after Yadav and Bhushan left the party. These 21 MLAs were appointed almost at par with the ministers which is against the Constitution,” said Gupta.
 
 
