CHANDIGARH: For city-based international award-winning poet and author Lily Swarn, Mother’s Day holds a special place. Each year on this day, Swarn finds herself instinctively opening her kitchen cabinet, only to find two personalised mugs with photos. The mere sight of a mug brings back a rush of memories. One of the mugs contains an old photograph of her   Gobind Shahbaaz Singh, wearing the turban. He passed away in 2013 when he was just 23.

 As emotions overpower her, she goes near his bed. She recalls how he used to laugh and wrap his arms around her. She can still feel the warmth of his hug. “There is an absence that I always fill around me. My son was a gifted, pure soul. He used to teach slum kids, develop Android applications and create music. The house used to be filled with laughter and his youthful energy. Now, everything is lost,” said Swarn. 
 
 Her elder daughter lives in Michigan with her husband. Swarn finds it difficult to cope up with the distance. “I used to ask my son what to wear before going out. He would teach me how to use the laptop and operate the iPhone. On the day of his funeral, one of his friends visited me. He gave me Gobind’s share of the money, which he had earned while developing Android applications with him. I bought my first iPhone with the money. I still use the same,” said Swarn as her voice crackled with emotion. 
 
 Her life underwent a drastic change after her son’s demise, but she has tried to keep him alive. To preserve Gobind’s memory, she created a   page named after her son. She found solace in poetry. She started penning down her thoughts into poetry and posted them on the social media platform. 
 
 ‘To Dear Departed Son’ was the first poem she posted on the social media. Lily believes she has managed to keep his son alive through the page. “I feel proud to be his mother,” said Swarn, who has found support from her family and friends, too, to keep the page active. She has a message for fellow parents, too. “Parents should never underestimate your child, no matter their age,” said Swarn.
 
 
