VISAKHAPATNAM: Though the   (VTZ) has registered a big growth in terms of number of   as per the latest air traffic report, it has not been able to maintain the same tempo in carrying domestic freight.

 According to the report, 3.541 metric tonnes of freight was carried from April 2017 to January 2018, as against 3,748 metric tonnes of freight in the corresponding period of 2016-17 — which is a 5.5% decline compared to last year’s figures.
 
 In the month of January alone, VTZ registered a 8.2% decline this year compared to the last year’s figures. While 279 metric tonnes of freight was carried in January, it was 304 metric tonnes in January 2017.
 
 The decline has been attributed to several reasons. One is lack of storage and bulk screening facility. There are also no big planes to carry large volume of goods. Drug industries require bigger and wide-body carriers, and also, the carrier operators want some commitment from the industries to operate dedicated flights for frights. As of now, passenger flights are being used to carry freight.
 
 D Varada Reddy, president of   (ATAI), said there are no dedicated freight carriers at the airport. “Currently, people depend on passenger flights to transport cargo. This apart, the airport also needs an augmentation of the existing storing capacity of eight tonnes to add more volume,” he said.
 
 O Naresh Kumar, vice-president of Visakhapatnam Air Travellers’ Association, said unavailability of requisite and suitable logistic facilities at the airport force the customers to opt other alternative modes to transport the freight. “Only emergency freights like fish and other commodities are currently being transported through the airport,” Naresh Kumar said.
 
 The reduction in the number of flights operated this year against last year is also one of the reasons behind the slide in domestic freight. While 1,623 domestic flights took off from the city in January this year, it was 1,644 flights in January last year, which is a decline of 1.3%. Similarly, the airport registered 14,516 flights between April to January (2017-18) while the number was more last year — 15,088 flights between April to January (2016-17).
 
 
