Kota: The markets in   city opened on Thursday after remaining closed since Monday following assurance of action against those involved in spoiling communal harmony in round of talks with various trade and markets unions.

 Mahaveer Swami procession on Mahaveer Jayanti remained peaceful with the message of communal harmony with Muslim groups welcoming the procession with shower of flowers at several places in the city, the threat to peace and communal harmony in the city however looms large as procession of Hanuman Jayanti is scheduled to be taken out in the markets on Saturday. As precautionary measure, the internet services, besides broadband and lease lines, were ordered to be suspended from 8 o’clock tonight to next order. 
 
 BJP general secretary Bhajan Lal Sharma on Wednesday evening intervened into the Bhand crisis and held meetings with the trade and market unions and assured them a fair investigation into the cases against those of the majority booked and arrested.
 
 The trade and market unions of the city, following round of talks with district administration and assurance of justified action against those involved in spoiling communal harmony, agreed late last night to open their business establishments, told ADM, Bundi city, Naresh Malav. The shops and business establishments in the markets have today resumed their commercial routine, he added.
 
 The situation in Bundi is normal and markets are opened peacefully, Bundi S.P. Yogesh Yadav said and added another one of the accused from a particular community involved in stone pelting was today arrested.
 
 Besides, giving a message of communal harmony, groups of the Muslim community welcomed Mahaveer Swami procession at several places in the market by showering flowers and petals over the people of Jain community in the procession.
 
 Meanwhile as precautionary measure, divisional commissioner Rohit Gupta today evening issued order for suspend of internet services and bulk messaging in the district till next order. Besides the broadband and lease line internet, the 2G, 3G, 4G data internet services, bulk SMA, MMS, Whatsapp, facebook, twitter and social media engines have been suspended in the district from 8 o’clock tonight till the next order, Bundi district collector Shivangi Swarnkar told. In view of ongoing situation in the district, the suspension of these services has been put in force to maintain law and order and communal harmony, she added.
 
 Pics – The people from Muslim community welcoming Mahaveer Swami procession with shower of flowers and petals in the markets of Bundi city on Thursday. 
 
 
