MANGALURU: The sixth additional district and sessions court, on Friday, awarded 9 months of rigorous imprisonment and levied a fine of Rs 20,000, apart from paying Rs 1.5 lakh compensation, to a married man who cheated a girl under the pretext of marrying her. The victim had delivered a baby girl after she had a physical relationship with the accused.

 The incident took place in August 31, 2015. After giving a missed call on Whatsapp, accused Rajesh Poojary, a resident of Patel Bagh, Mallur in Mangaluru taluk, had befriended the 25-year-old girl from Boliyar. Rajesh was married and had a child. They got into a relationship after this, and Rajesh had promised to marry her.
 
 On August 31, 2015, he invited the victim to meet him at the State Bank. Rajesh, who came in a two-wheeler, took the victim to a lodge, and got into a physical relationship with her. They were in contact after the incident. One day, the victim told Rajesh that she was  , and asked him to marry her, but Rajesh refused to do so, divulging that he is already married and has a kid. The victim mentioned in her complaint that he also threatened to kill her.
 
 A police complaint was filed after the victim delivered a girl child at the government hospital in the city in May, 2016. Doctors, who learnt that she was single mother, started to enquire about it. She revealed everything to them, and a police complaint was registered under Indian Penal Code sections 376 (punishment for rape), 417 (punishment for  ) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation).
 
 Judith O M Crasta, public prosecutor, said that as many 23 witnesses were examined and 30 documents were produced. One of the evidences included a DNA test, which proved Rajesh as the biological father of the child. The signature at the lodge registry also matched his handwriting. The district court, after hearing the witnesses, ruled out sexual assault, terming it as consensual sex, and a case was filed several months later.
 
 Judge D T Puttaranga Swamy declared Rajesh guilty under IPC sections 417 and 506 and awarded total rigorous imprisonment of 9 months. The accused will have to pay Rs 20,000 out of which Rs 15,000 will be given to the victim. Apart from this, he will also have to pay Rs 1.5 lakh as compensation to the baby. The court asked the victim to approach before another court to demand maintenance.
 
 
