TIRUPATI: “It was here on this day in 2014 that you promised to do justice to the state after bifurcation,”   chief minister   ‘reminded’ Prime Minister Narendra Modi in front of a huge throng of supporters who gathered at the TDP public meeting here on Monday.

 
 “Modi had promised special category status and other benefits for AP. Later, he also promised to help the state to build a better capital city than New Delhi. But, four years later, he failed to fulfil even a single promise. Is it not betrayal?” the TDP chief asked the gathering. He also played a video clip of the Hindi speech of Narendra Modi given on April 30, 2014, which was translated into Telugu by M Venkaiah Naidu.
 
 Recalling the sequence of events that unfolded in the last four years, Naidu said he had aligned with the   as the party had fought for the state’s issues at the time of bifurcation.
 
 “The Congress did a lot of injustice to AP at the time of bifurcation. It was the BJP which sought some benefits for the state, including the special category status. Believing that the BJP leaders will do justice, I aligned with them. I waited for four years and repeatedly urged them to fulfil the promises. I visited New Delhi 29 times for the same purpose. But in the end, even after the fifth budget was presented, there was nothing for the state. I then took the decision to quit the   government and start fighting,” Naidu said.
 
 The TDP chief said that instead of granting SCS, BJP leaders offered a special package in the pretext that the 14th Finance Commission had opposed granting of SCS. “I accepted the offer too. But while saying that SCS cannot be offered to AP, they continued to do so to 11 other states. Is it not injustice?,” he asked.
 
 Naidu also accused the YSR Congress of conspiring against the TDP and AP. “Jaganmohan Reddy colluded with Congress and secured bail in the corruption cases booked against him. He is now colluding with BJP to get out of the cases. While I am fighting against the PM, he is fighting against me for his cases. Is it not conspiracy?” he asked.
 
 He appealed to the people to support him against the betrayal of the BJP and the conspiracy of the YSR Congress and said he would continue his fight for the state.
 
