WASHINGTON: The   has decided to slap an   on the stainless steel flanges imported from China and India after it found in its preliminary probe that both the countries had provided subsidies to the exporters.

 
 In January, the US had slapped anti-dumping duty on finer denier polyester staple fibre from China and India after the Department of Commerce found that exporters from both the countries received subsidies of 41.73 to 47.55 per cent and 9.50 to 25.28 percent, respectively.
 
 The Department of Commerce has found that exporters from China and India have sold stainless steel flanges in the US at 257.11 per cent and 18.10 to 145.25 per cent less than fair value, respectively, according to an official statement issued yesterday.
 
 Following this decision, the commerce department has instructed the   and Border Protection (USCBP) to collect cash deposits from importers of the stainless steel flanges from China and India, based on these preliminary rates, it said.
 
 In 2016, imports of stainless steel flanges from China and India were valued at an estimated USD16.3 million and USD32.1 million, respectively.
 
 The preliminary investigation was launched by the Department on the petition by the Coalition of American Flange Producers, including Core Pipe Products Inc. (Carol Stream, IL) and Maass Flange Corporation (Houston).
 
 "The United States will not sit back and watch as our domestic businesses are destroyed by unfair foreign government subsidies and dumping,"   Secretary   said.
 
 "This Administration is taking fair and transparent action on behalf of American industry to defend businesses and workers while we continue reviewing the facts related to this decision," he said.
 
 The enforcement of the US trade law is a prime focus of the   administration.
 
 From January 20, 2017, through March 20, 2018, the commerce department has initiated 102 anti-dumping and countervailing duty investigations - a 96 per cent increase from January 20, 2016 through March 20, 2017, the statement said.
 
 The anti-dumping law provides the US businesses and workers with an internationally accepted mechanism to seek relief from the harmful effects of unfair pricing of imports into the US.
 
 Commerce currently maintains 428 anti-dumping and countervailing duty orders which provide relief to American companies and industries impacted by unfair trade, it said.
 
 Commerce is scheduled to announce the final determinations in these investigations on or about June 5, 2018, it added.
 
