RAIPUR: Clean shots, perfect timing and an art of finding gaps. Faiz Fazal’s innings against Railways had all. While he chose to feed maximum strike to Jitesh Sharma on Monday, the   skipper was in different mood on Tuesday.

 It was that sort of day for him when he could do no wrong. He was stroking the ball beautifully, making some good diving stops, taking catches and effecting a crucial run out. Faiz was doing all. Besides, he was rotating his bowlers well when Railways were cruising along. His breezy 45-run knock, which came in just 28 balls with the help of four boundaries, set up the game for Vidarbha. Without taking any risk, Faiz scored at a healthy strike rate of 160.71.
 
 Faiz assessed the situation well; pick the bowlers he wanted to go after and most importantly took his partners along when they were struggling. With proper cricketing shots, Faiz made the difference in Twenty20. The ball was moving early on. It required patience and application to handle Anureet & Co. Anureet and Amit Mishra might not be big names but they are skillful bowlers who have won enough matches for Raillways.
 
 While Jitesh was finding it difficult to pierce the gaps, Faiz was making batting look so easy. With big boundaries at Shaheed Veer Narayan Stadium, Faiz relied more on singles and doubles. He also converted three threes besides hitting four delightful boundaries. He started with a crunching extra cover drive to Railways spearhead   on the first ball of the match. After off drive, he played a delicate late cut to Anureet and an equally good flick to Satender Thakran. His proper cricketing shots impressed Chhattisgarh coach  .
 
 “When you have range of shots, like Faiz has, you don’t have to do anything extra to score. He played sensible cricket. He knows his strengths well. He was focusing more on singles, doubles and finding the gaps. Without taking much of risk, he scored at a healthy strike rate. These kinds of innings provide calming influence in the dressing room. Clearly, he is carrying his Ranji Trophy form here,” Parmar, who watching Vidarbha-Railways game, told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Parmar was spot on with his assessment as till the time Faiz was batting, Vidarbha were cruising. When he got run out, even Apoorv Wankhade struggled to get going at the start. It was only in the end, Wankhade hit some lusty blows to cover up the dot balls he had played.
 
 After a good batting display, Faiz led the side well. Even when Railways were going along well, he kept his cool. Eventually, it was his brilliant piece of fielding that turned the game in Vidarbha’s favour when he ran a well set Karn Sharma out. He also took important catch of Arindam Ghosh when the batsman appeared set for onslaught. 
 
