Nagpur: Without naming anyone, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) appointed by the state government has blamed local administrations for the 44 farmer deaths due to pesticide inhalation and suggested measures like filing criminal offences against unfit sprayers (farm labourers) in its report that was opened in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday. On January 12, the report was submitted in a sealed envelope by the additional government pleader Anand Fulzele even before it was tabled before the state cabinet. A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi had directed the government to complete all the formalities within a week and return. On Monday, the SIT report was placed before the state cabinet after which it cleared the report to be presented in the high court. A copy was also given to the petitioner’s counsel Arvind Waghmare on Tuesday.  Waghmare said the court has scheduled the next hearing for February 6 in order to study the 80-page report. The SIT recommended that the accused (land owners) should be booked under 304 of the IPC for culpable homicide while if an unfit labourer is found spraying pesticides, he should be booked as well under 309 of the IPC for attempt to suicide. The report lays down procedures to declare a sprayer fit or unfit. Social worker Jammu Anand, who had filed a PIL in the case, said the report is silent on the alleged nexus among pesticides manufacturers, seed companies and local administration. “Ultimately, the state is going to punish the unemployed youth or poor labourers who have no alternative. It is denial of right to livelihood,” said Anand. Quoting the SIT report, Waghmare said, “The state government has banned five pesticides companies, cancelled the manufacturing licences of seven, sealed the entire stock of five dealers from Pune and Mumbai, and scrapped the licences of 10 local retailers besides registering FIRs against them.” As per the report, actions against many illegal distributors across the state too have been taken. “The report states that new stringent rules are being framed for issuing licences and manufacturing pesticides,” said Waghmare. Besides this, the report has recommended new rules to book errant land owners under IPC for culpable homicide. Talathi, gram panchayat officials and agriculture officials would be empowered to directly book land owners who employ unfit labourers for spraying pesticides. The state government has also suggested CBI inquiry against Bt cotton seed manufacturers. The report recommended a blanket ban on insecticide ‘monocrotophos’, which is partially banned.  The state also took measures like distributing 5,000 kits, sending SMS alerts and awareness drives after the tragedy. Rs2lakh each has been handed over to the next of kin of the deceased while Rs40lakh was distributed among the affected persons. Divisional commissioner (revenue) of Amravati Piyush Singh is chairman of the SIT while joint director of agriculture, Amravati division, is member secretary. Five members in the SIT are special inspector general of police, Amravati division; joint director of health, Amravati division; director of CICR Nagpur; representative of Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage, Faridabad, and head of pesticide department of Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV), Akola. Singh was given powers to take on experts as independent members on the SIT. Key findings of SIT In 2016 too, 434 had lost lives in similar cases  Recent tragedies could have been averted if agriculture officials had annually reported pesticides as per May 16, 1980 notification As per the notification, inquiry panels comprising health officials, animal husbandry officials and experts have to be set up  No such panels were ever formed After Yavatmal disaster, 227 agriculture centres across the state were inspected After inspection, offences were registered against two pesticide companies and 10 agriculture centres  Licences of 5 krishi kendras scrapped Before incident coming to light, quality control inspector didn’t conduct any inspection A laid down procedure to be followed in such emergency not followed as per Pesticides Act 1968  No treatment was available for farmers after inhalation Chemical stress test facility not available  Patients had to be sent to 120 kms at Wani, Pusad, Umarkhed Morgaon, Zari talukas Some farmers passed away on way to treatment to these places