Chennai: The Greater Chennai Corporation is set to roll out smart cards, in the style of Chennai Metro Rail, which will help residents make payment for property and metro water taxes besides other civic services.

 According to a senior corporation official, tenders for the service named ‘Integrated Common Card Payment System’ were called last month but the civic body has yet to pick a vendor. 
 
 “The winning bidder will supply radio-frequency identification (RFID) cards and purpose made point-of-sale (POS) machines,” the official said. The corporation would also bring on board a financial institution as project partner.
 
 The project is estimated to cost the civic body more than Rs 10 crore, sources said. The card will function in much the same way as smart cards provided by CMRL for commuters. “The cards can be purchased for a nominal amount by residents. After the initial minimum pre-recharged sum is exhausted, the user can top ups to recharge the card. The winning bidder will have to provide the facility to recharge the cards too,” the official added.
 
 The smart card can be utilised to make payment for property tax, metro water tax and bi-monthly electricity bills. The card could also be programmed to help residents pay telephone bills, parking slot fee and avail other civic services, officials said. 
 
 “We would prefer to distribute an open-loop card which can be used to make payment in retail outlets as well,” said a corporation official, adding the card could only be used within the city corporation’s limits.
 
 Though the smart card’s functionality mirrors a debit card issued by banking institutions, the corporation insisted that there was requirement for such a card among patrons of civic services. At present, the corporation’s property tax collection centres do not have the facility to accept card payment. “Even when there was cash shortage after demonetisation, people continued to make payment using cash only. There was really no use for POS machines,” a revenue official said.
 
 “(POS units) develop issues. Mobile signal reception is low in many corporation buildings,” the official said, adding that the corporation had made it possible to pay property tax online without transaction fees.
 
 
