COIMBATORE : A 12-member police team from  , who came to the city with a prisoner transit warrant to escort eight ATM burglars arrested by the city police to a court at Mehabubnagar in that state, had to return empty-handed on Monday.

 The eight - who were arrested in December last for breaking open automated teller machines (ATMs) of IndusInd bank and   on   at   and looting Rs 3.35 lakh and Rs 26.70 lakh, respectively - are wanted in connection with an ATM burglary in Telangana.
 
 A police officer with the Telangana special police said they had obtained prisoner transit warrant to escort the eight ATM burglars to a court at Mehabubnagar. The same gang had broken open an ATM of SBI at Mehabubnagar last year and looted Rs 6.5 lakh.
 
 “We came here to escort them to Mehabubnagar. However, we were asked to follow a few procedures to take them to Telangana. So, we are returning to our home town,” the officer said.
 
 The Telangana police team first visited the central jail, where the eight are presently lodged, but prison authorities sent the team to the city police to verify their credentials. After their identity was confirmed, the city police asked them to get an order from the Coimbatore judicial magistrate court to take the eight to Telangana, as they had been detained under the Goondas Act.
 
 The city police also told their counterparts from Telangana that charges were to be framed against the eight before the chief judicial magistrate court here on May 17 and they were unlikely to get a favourable city court order to escort the eight to Mehabubnagar court. Hence, Telangana police team members were advised to return empty-handed.
 
 The eight - Zulfikar, Mustak, Mosamkhan, Zubair, Amitkumar, Zubair, Mubarak and Amin -were arrested with the help of   district and Salem city police. The gang was involved in ATM burglary in Kerala, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Goa and other parts of the country. City police commissioner   detained them under the Goondas Act in January.
 
 
