KOLKATA: Next time you travel to Santiniketan or Mandarmani by road, you can have a chilled beer or two at your favourite   dhaba or buy your poison from an off-shop.

 Several shops, forced to shut down last year after a Supreme Court order on highway bars, have reopened after a state excise department order excluding them from the ban ambit. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 There are 5,000   stores and bars in the state, of which 2,150 are situated along highways. All of them had to shut down following the SC order that barred liquor sale within 500 metres of highways. 
 
 With the order delivering a blow to excise duty collection, a major revenue earner for the state government, it scurried to denotify large stretches of state highways so that liquor vends could stay open. The SC, too, removed highways within city limits from the ban ambit. Around 1,200 shops reopened after this but the remaining had to stay shut, a   spokesperson said. But, with the new excise order stating that only places with population of 20,000 or less will come under the ambit of the ban, most of these shops can now reopen. 
 
 There are very few rural conglomerates with lower than 20,000 people in Bengal, which has the highest population density in the country, which explains why most of the shut shops can now be back in business.
 
 Tipplers are over the moon with joy. Partha Roy of Northern Avenue is happy that he will not have to lug his liquor during his weekly trips to Kharagpur along NH-6.
 
 All liqour shops and bars along highways in the Siliguri-Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) area reopened on Thursday evening.
 
 “There were some 40 of those that had to be shut down last April. They all reopened on Thursday evening. Now the process to renew the licenses will commence,” a senior excise official said.
 
 Sumita Saha, owner of a bar-cum-restaurant along NH-31D was ecstatic. “Tthings will be fine now,” she said. The manager of another bar-cum-restaurant in the area, Chandni Chowk, said they had already placed online orders for procuring liquor.
 
 Howrah foreign liquor off- and on-shop and hotel association president Sushanta Karati welcomed the move. More than 90 had shut down along NH-2 and NH-6. “We expect most of them to reopen,” he added.
 
 P Das, owner of Nirala Bar & Restaurant on Taki Road in North 24-Parganas, had been contemplating a switch in business. “I heard about the order on Thursday. I can start my business afresh,” he said.
 
 Kallol Biswas, owner of a bar near NH-34 at the North 24-Parganas-Nadia junction, pointed out that several thousand bar employees had lost their job but now could get back their livelihood.
 
 (With inputs from Pinak Priya Bhattacharya, Rupak Banerjee, Sanjib Chakraborty, Suman Mandal and Ashis Poddar)
 
 
