BHUBANESWAR: More than 32,000 students on Sunday appeared for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (under graduate), (NEET-UG-2018) from 56 examinations centres spread across seven cities in the state. 

 Students were not allowed to enter the examination hall after 9.30am. More than five students were barred from taking the test in the capital city as they arrived well past the scheduled time. Examinees had to report to their respective centres in two phases, one from 7.30am to 8.30am and the other from 8.30am to 9.30am. 
 
 The centres stuck to the strict guidelines laid down by the  , which conducts the national-level pre-medical entrance test for admission to MBBS/BDS courses in medical/dental colleges, while frisking the candidates. While girl students were made to remove their hair clips, earrings and high-heeled footwear, at some centres boys too had to take off their shoes and belts. The candidates were checked thrice before they could start writing the test. 
 
 The CBSE has strictly prohibited students from taking stationery items like text material, geometry pencil box and eraser, ornaments and communication devices like mobile phones and other electronic components into the examination hall. It has also put a ban on taking eatables like packaged foods and water bottle inside the hall. The test began at 10am and continued till 1pm. 
 
 While most of the students found the biology paper easy, they had a tough time writing the physics paper. 
 
 "Biology was fairly easy. Some of the questions were from previous years' papers. All in all, it was a cakewalk for most," said A Suraj Verma. 
 
 Another student  , who appeared from the   centre here, too found the biology paper easy. "Physics was tough," he said. Similar was the experience of  , who took the test at the   here. "Physics was tough to answer because its questions involved complex derivations. We had to use multiple formulae to solve these questions," he explained. 
 
 The results of the test will be published on June 5. 
 
 
