Summer is a time when pet owners have to be more alert and do their best to keep their pets relaxed and healthy.   who has a   says, "I keep my dog inside my house and don’t let it go outside even to the porch. In the morning, when I go running, I take it along and post-sunset we go to the park to play. I brush it regularly so that it feels light." While this is the normal routine for most dog owners, cat people have it a bit more difficult as cats don't like water. Persian cat owner Vivek Kumar says, "Since my cat has long fur, I get it trimmed during summer. I keep a pack of ice under its bed and keep its bed near the cooler. I wipe it occasionally with a wet sponge and then dry and brush its hair. I also make sure that it drinks plenty of water after every meal." 

 
  
  owner Jahanvi Bhushan Mishra feeds her pet snacks that are high in water content. "My guinea pig does not like to drink much water, so its diet includes plenty of tomatoes, cucumber and watermelon. I don’t keep it in its cage the whole day. It roams the house and sleeps under the bed in the afternoon. At night I keep its cage near the air conditioner so it can sleep peacefully."
 
 
 
 During summer, zoo keepers have to make special arrangements for the animals. The director of Van Vihar National Park, Samita Rajora says, "Our aim to keep the animals stress free so they don’t fall sick. In their natural habitat they are able to tackle the heat, but here, they are dependent on us. We have created artificial water bodies so that they can take a dip and coolers have been installed too. The traditional way of cooling has been adopted by us. We have put screens made of khus-khus which is kept wet throughout the day. It cools very well. Wet hessian cloth is put on the enclosures as many animals prefer sitting outside." 
 
 
  
 
 
 Dr Brajesh Gupta points out three symptoms to watch out for in your pets. If they stop eating and sleep the whole day, or start vomiting or have loose stools. When these symptoms are noted, the pet should be taken to a vet. He shares, "Animals are prone to heat stroke, so pet owners should give them special care. They should be given fresh food and water. Snimals like cats and dogs can be given curd which will help them with digestion. If you are traveling with your pets, make sure that they are kept at a stable temperature. Don’t bathe them often as then their fur will lose its shine and the threat of tics will increase."
 
 
  
 
 
 
 To help stray animals, Bhopalis are keeping bowls filled with grains and water outside their houses. Animal activist Swati Gaurav says, "We have successfully placed cement containers through which the animals can quench their thirst. We are also planning to build permanent containers on the outskirts of the city which the highway animals can access." 
 
 - Farzana Patowari
