 The   recorded a total of 6,05,175 visitors as the mega event came to a successful conclusion on the sixth-public day at   on Wednesday. In 2016, the show had recorded 6,01,914 footfalls.

 
 The mega auto show was jointly organized by Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India (ACMA), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and   (SIAM) from February 9 – 14, 2018. The organisers said   culminated with a resounding success as the harbinger of transformation for the Indian auto industry.
 
 This edition’s Auto Expo witnessed over 500 product displays from 119 exhibitors. This included 53 Original Vehicle Manufacturers showcasing over 100 products, including 22 launches, 81 product unveilings and 18 concept showcase. There were 14 new brand launches that included   India, India Kawasaki Motors and Cleveland CycleWerks. There were 25 Electric Vehicles showcased in this edition of the Auto Expo. A total of 11 start-ups also marked the presence in India through this edition of the show.
 
 Vishnu Mathur, Director General, SIAM said that the Auto Expo 2018 is a milestone as a grand exposition that has built a brand image for itself over the years. “It is the biggest platform for the Indian Automobile industry to showcase its journey towards the future of ‘Mobility in India’, with competitive & world class products, technology & futuristic concept,” he said.
 
 Sugato Sen, Deputy Director General, SIAM said that successful completion of the Auto Expo is a great achievement for the industry. “We had 6,05,175 footfalls during this edition. The Auto Expo has been welcomed by visitors and manufacturers alike. The feedback received from all quarters has been positive. It has been a wonderful experience for all which was one of the key objectives of the Motor Show,” he said.
 
 Auto Expo 2018 was inaugurated by Anant G Geete, Minister, Ministry of Heavy Industries & Public Enterprises, Government of India who felicitated the auto industry for supporting the government in its endeavour and applauded the Auto Expo for being a platform that brings together the entire automotive fraternity on a level plinth.
 
 Legendary sports and Bollywood personalities including Shah Rukh Khan,  , Akshay Kumar,  , Taapsee Pannu, Gul Panag, Rahul Khanna,  , Mohammad Azharuddin, Gautam Gambhir, R P Singh and others had launched vehicles at the Auto Expo.
 
 The organisers said that the impressive consumer response and the influx of visitors coming to the Auto Expo is a testament to the success of the Auto Expo 2018, setting the tone for the next financial year for the auto industry.
 
 
