MUMBAI: The deputy chief labour commissioner in Mumbai, S K Das, and a labour enforcement officer,  , were arrested on Friday by the CBI’s anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for demanding a bribe of Rs 1.20 lakh. Two employees of a Delhi-based construction firm,  , who offered the bribe too were arrested.

 Das demanded the money in lieu of contract labour licences for the company for a project it had undertaken in the city. The investigating agency said that Das was nabbed while accepting a part of the bribe amount—Rs 70,000—from the two company’s representatives,   and  . The four accused were arrested from Shram Raksha Bhawan in Sion.
 
 A deputy chief labour commissioner is supposed to ensure that labourers are provided minimum wages and other amenities. The special CBI ACB court on Saturday sent the accused to judicial custody till May 5.
 
 The CBI said that Som Projects Pvt Ltd was seeking licences to engage labour to repair the navy’s boat shed in Colaba. The investigating agency said that the firm also had two more projects in the city—one at Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) and another at the   in Bhandup.
 
 According to information received by CBI through sources, Das had been demanding bribes to issue contracts licences and hence, a raid was conducted. Das was caugh taking a packet containing Rs 70,000 from the Aggarwal and Vishwakarma. The investigating agency further alleged that a packet containing Rs 30,000 was recovered from Gupta, who worked on another floor in the same office. A third packet containing Rs 20,000 was also found and, the CBI said, it was to be given to another officer. The CBI alleged that Das had instructed that the owner of the construction company, Mukul Garg, to hand over the money in three separate envelopes. Garg has been named in the FIR, but could not be found at his home in Delhi, said the CBI.
 
 The CBI said that they needed to unearth the larger conspiracy and find out if others, both officials of the department and contractors, were involved in the case. CBI officials are in the process of scrutinising Das’s properties and are finding out if there were other instances in which bribes were sought for issuing licences.
 
