BHUBANESWAR: The run-up to the   byelection saw a unique succession of challenges for the   government. Serious problems like the gangrape of the Koraput minor and her subsequent suicide, the mob assault on the woman who threw eggs at chief minister   as he prepared to speak at Balasore and the custodial death of a young man in Sambalpur added to the worries of the ruling party and created gigantic rallying points for the opposition   and BJP. Why, then, did the BJD win the byelection? That is a question that has left both opposition parties scratching their heads. 

 Most would say the issues that might have plagued the BJD's headquarters in Bhubaneswar have had no bearing on Bijepur. The Congress, which had a stronghold on the constituency until Wednesday, had unsuccessfully tried to reach out to its people by highlighting anti-women and anti-poor policies of the ruling BJD. 
 
 Senior Congress leader and former state president of the party Niranjan Patnaik had no qualms admitting that the grand old party failed to capitalise on a number of more relevant issues. "We failed to sensitise voters to the BJD misrule and corruption. There were plenty of pressing issues, but we could not turn the tide against BJD," Patnaik told TOI.
 
 Congress MLA Naba Kishore Das also questioned the strategy adopted by the state leadership. "The issues would have been addressed in a proper manner had the state leadership and high command started the groundwork much earlier. The name of the candidate was announced just two days before the deadline of filing the nomination papers. Key Congress leaders in western Odisha were not consulted while preparing the strategy and selecting the right candidate," Das said. 
 
 BJP, which had unleashed a remarkable brand of campaigning involving the likes of Union textile minister Smriti Irani in a traditionally weaver-dominated area, claimed they raised all the pertinent local issues. "We also broached topics that had sparked a statewide public outcry against the state government. Local issues like the drinking water problem, poor irrigation, farmers plight and worsening healthcare system among others in the Bijepur area were properly addressed by us. The BJD government failed to bring development in the area in the last 18 years. We accept the people's mandate," said Pravati Parida, the BJP's women wing president. 
 
 On the alleged rape and suicide issue in Koraput, the opposition parties had observed a statewide strike, took out protest rallies and attempted to gherao Naveen Patnaik's residence. Looking back, BJD says the motive of the opposition parties was to elicit political mileage from an issue such as this. 
 
 
