In the latest episode of  , Padma doesn’t support her mother Rashmoni’s decision of helping poor people.

 Rashmoni is upset and she starts praying. Suddenly a Sanyasi arrives at her place. The moment Rashmoni plans to give her a bowl of payesh he disappears. Rashmoni offers the bowl of payesh to god.
 
  is having rice for the first time. People from other villages have also arrived to bless him. His family members get worried as they don’t know how to arrange food for so many people.
 
  helps his family members arrange food. But he seems to be hiding a secret from the family.
 
 On the other hand, Rani Rashmoni is surprised to see that the bowl of payesh she offered in front of god is empty now.   doesn’t want to believe the miracle. Padma arrives and again criticises her mother for arranging food for the destitute.
 
 Rajchandra’s mother is shocked to see what her daughter thinks about such noble activity. Padma’s grandmother tries to explain that her mother hasn’t done anything wrong. Rashmoni too tries to explain that she wanted to help the poor people and it won’t affect their financial condition.
 
 Rajchandra criticises Padma's narrow mind. He informs her that Rashmoni doesn’t want anything for her own benefit. She is doing it for the benefit of the society instead.
 
 Rajchandra’s mother stops him and requests not to scold the child and explains that someone must be provoking the young girl. Padma gets miffed and leaves the place.
 
 Rashmoni feels bad by the way her daughter behaved. Her mother-in-law tries to console her that she is doing a noble job.
 
  again meets Bachashpati Moshai. Abhay tries to provoke him against Rajchandra. He shares his idea how can they defame Rajchandra.
 
 On the other hand, Dharmadas visits Gadadhar’s household and wants to confess something. He shares that he invited all the villagers from Sripur and Kamarpukur. He also adds that he loves Gadadhar and wanted to arrange a grand function for him.
 
 Rani Rashmoni scolds the people who work at the kitchen and warn them that she won’t allow any lapse while cooking food for the destitute.
 
