MUMBAI: A 30-year-old man, one of the alleged beneficiaries in a firm that reportedly duped a coal   company of Rs 2.3 crore, was   by Mumbai   on Tuesday.

 Cuffe Parade police, who are probing the cheating case, have arrested Nishant Shah, a resident of Kutch in  , under Indian Penal Code sections for cheating, forgery and breach of trust, and remanded him to police custody. 
 
 Cuffe Parade police said they took Shah’s custody from their counterparts in Ahmedabad where he was arrested in another cheating and forgery case. Shah, who said he was a representative of Prince Marketing, is accused of siphoning off 300 metric tonne of   belonging to   Mining & Construction.
 
 The Kolkata-based mining   lodged a police complaint in 2015 alleging that Amrut Patel, Lalji alias Shailash Patel, Mohammed Idris,   and Nishant Shah connived to dupe it of Rs 2.3 crore, said advocate Rashid Khan for Emars Mining.
 
 The mining company said it was into import and export of coal from Indonesia. 
 
 As per requirement, the company said it has to dispose of coal immediately upon import or it stands to lose its credibility. 
 
 The importer has to sell the coal to various sub-companies and give them a 45-day credit facility. Those who buy this coal have to follow certain directions, including registering their company, procuring gumasta (trade) licence, opening bank accounts and depositing earnest money, among such others. 
 
 Mohammed Memon, a coal agent, introduced Amrut Patel as director of Accurate Coal Company to Emar Minings and showed interest in buying the coal.
 
 “Emars imported 47,000 metric tonne of coal at Kandla Port Trust in Gujarat and Amrut Patel deposited Rs 25 lakh in Emars account and transported 7,000 metric tonne to various traders. While 800 tonne went to Shailash Patel, 1,200 tonne went to Prashant Mehta. Thus all the accused connived and failed to pay the remaining amount of Rs 2.3 crore and caused a huge loss to company,” said a police officer. He said police have already filed a charge sheet against Amrut Patel and Mohammed Idris and will soon file a supplementary charge sheet against the others.
 
 
