GHAZIABAD: A 26-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan in a 10th-floor flat in Ghaziabad on Monday. Priyanka Verma stayed as a paying guest in the flat in   apartments on   of Indirapuram.

 Priyanka, who hails from Kota in Rajasthan, worked with a placement services firm in Sector 3 of Noida. She had been sharing the three-bedroom flat with five other women for more than a month. Two of these women and Priyanka shared a room.
 
 Police suspect Priyanka’s suicide to be the result of her strained relationship with a male friend identified as  . No suicide note has been recovered yet.
 
 The matter came to light at 6.30 pm when one of Priyanka’s roommates returned to the flat after work. Upon entering the room, she found Priyanka hanging by a stole from the ceiling fan.
 
 “I informed police and the society guards immediately. Priyanka came to live with us a little over a month ago. She had found herself a job in Noida around 10 days ago. She had been going through a bad patch with her male friend Mayank and was very upset over this. Mayank, from what we knew of him, was extremely uncouth in his behaviour,” her roommate, who did not wish to be identified, told TOI.
 
 Police took custody of Priyanka’s mobile phone and sent her body for postmortem. Her brother-in-law   said Priyanka’s father passed away few years ago. “Priyanka’s mother lives in Kota. She used to chat with my wife Pooja, who is her older sister, occasionally. They last spoke to each other around two days ago,” Kumar said.
 
 According to police, Mayank’s family had recently rejected Priyanka’s marriage proposal with him. Following this Mayank blocked calls from Priyanka’s mobile phone to his number.
 
 “Priyanka had called her roommate a little after 5 pm telling her that all is over now and that she is going. But her roommate didn’t have any idea that she would be taking the extreme step. Her breakup with Mayank is the apparent reason behind the suicide,” said Indirapuram circle officer Dharmendra Chauhan.
 
 
