KOCHI: The analysis of the data collected by   has shown that most cases of   reported to them took place during the school holiday season— summer, Onam, and  .

 
 From April, 2017 to January this year, around 65 cases of the sexual assault were reported to Childline through their helpline number.
 
 “In around 70% of these cases, the child was assaulted while on a break from school. At this point in time, the children seem to be vulnerable especially when both parents are working and they often have to look after themselves,” said Nirish Anthony, district coordinator, Childline.
 
 He stated two specific incidents. Achild, who was at home down with sickness during last year’s Onam holidays, was abused by her father’s friends.
  
  
 
 Her father had passed out after consuming alcohol with friends. In the second incident during summer break last year, a child was lured into a neighbour’s home and assaulted.
 
 “In most cases, the child is not able to able identify what is going on or the fact that he or she is being sexually assaulted. Many times, when we talk to them, we realize that they don’t even know the names of their sexual organ. This is a failure of the of the education system,” said Nirish.
 
 A senior official with the education department said that the government had added sex education to the school syllabus in state board schools but it had to be watered down due to pressure from certain groups.
 
 “Presently, we teach children about ‘good and bad touch’ or ‘safe and unsafe touch’ when it comes to educating about keeping themselves safe from sexual abuse. These terms are too ambiguous for students. The education needs a more progressive shift. They must be taught to be alert to various kinds of abuse namely, ‘touch alert’, where the abuser touches them, ‘see alert’, where children are exposed to their genitalia and ‘hear alert’, where they speak to the child in dirty language. Children need to be capable of identifying these threats and respond aptly,” said Seema Lal, a school counsellor. Parents should also share the reasonability of having this conversation with their children.
 
 Nirish Anthony said that this year, they will try and reach out to schools to sensitize them on the need to hold awareness programme on such threats for the students before they leave schools after their exams.
 
 “We are preparing a teaching module that schools can use when they are conducting these awareness programmes. Since we are short of staff and time we will not be able to cover all schools. We would need the school’s cooperation,” he added.
 
 CA Santhosh, deputy director of education (Ernakulam) said that they won’t be able to conduct these awareness programmes in government and aided school under such a short notice but they can distribute pamphlets with this information before the students depart for their summer holiday.
 
 TPM Ibrahim Khan, president of the   said they are open to conducting the awareness program. “We will include this in the teachers training programmes, we will be organizing this summer.”
 
 Padmaja Nair, chairperson, Child Welfare Committee said parents must be vigilant during the break. “They should try to keep the child engaged during the break season by making them take part in extracurricular activities,” she said.
 
 
 
 Fifty per cent of the 289 cases reported to Childline via their helpline and marked as unclassified are related to the child’s anxiety caused by their father’s alcohol consumption.
 
 “Cases that are marked as unclassified are usually incidents where the child is not a victim of abuse. But children are put under a lot of stress and anxiety because of their environment. In around 40% of the such cases, the stress has been caused by the father’s consumption of alcohol,” said Nirish Anthony, district coordinator, Childline.
 
 
 He said that in these cases there are no incidents of physical abuse of the child. But the parent’s alcohol consumption creates a hostile and uncomfortable environment for the child.
 
 “In most of these cases, father cares for the child but is not aware of their behavior when they are drunk. Once they are made aware they try to take steps to rectify it,” said Nirish. C J John, a psychiatrist said alcoholism in a father can be quite harmful to child. “Usually, it is important in the formative years of a child. And in many cases, it could even lead to conduct disorder,” he said.
 
 
