BHOPAL: Civic body officials in charge of water distribution in the state capital are worried as the mild winter sun turns brighter by the day.

 It is not only the shrinking   or the fast receding water level in Kolar dam that is ringing alarm bells, but, the pictures of ‘drying’   appearing in newspapers of late. This, because the city’s water supply has become increasingly dependent on Narmada water, drawn from Shahganj and pumped through pipes from 56 kms away.
 
 When asked about water level of Narmada at Hirani Ghat near Shahganj — from where raw Narmada water is lifted for distribution in   — an engineer of water works department in BMC said, “As of now, water level is just about okay. All our pumps are working, but the water level must be maintained.”
 
 “We had a meeting with   ( ) officials recently and they assured that water from dams in the Narmada basin would be released to maintain adequate water level in Narmada. But they are not giving any written assurance. We shall be meeting them soon.”
 
 When asked the water level in Narmada as of today, he said it is 279 RL (reduced level). The engineer added, “I had never seen water flow in Narmada breaking ever in my life but recent pictures showing the river reduced to a rivulet is a cause of worry.”
 
  While 40 million gallon per day (MGD) water is drawn daily from Narmada, 34 MGD is drawn from Upper lake and and Kerwa dam 6.25 MGD. 
 
 Kerwa dam is the latest to join the major water resources in the city as it now caters to water requirement in the entire Kolar region.
 
 Rakesh Nigam, in-charge of water supply from Upper lake, once the largest source of water supply in the city, however, said “It’s not like Narmada is more important or Kolar or Upper Lake. All of them are important as they cater to different areas of the city.” We have enough water in Upper Lake for supply till June 30. We only hope that monsoon would be on time this year, else regular water supply would be disrupted.”
 
 He said unlike the previous year when water level in Upper lake was at full tank level (LFT) (1666.80 feet), water level this year it is at 16661.50 feet. There had been 40% less storage this year. Water level would reach dead storage level (when lifting water for supply won’t be possible) at 1652 feet. Presently the levl is 1957.10 feet.
 
 In-charge of water supply for Kolar dam Pradeep Bakshi said that water level in the dam as of now was 445 meter, which is seven feet less than previous year. 
 
 
