BENGALURU: Barring a few puzzling errors, teachers and students pronounced CET papers - mathematics and biology - on Wednesday, the first day of the  ,  . 

  
  
 
  As many as 1,53,450 students sat for the biology paper, while 1,90,784 took the maths exam. The exam is a gateway for admissions to professional courses like engineering, ayurveda, unani, homeopathy and B Pharma for those who complete second PUC. 
 
 Students who took the mathematics paper claimed one multiple-choice question did not have the right answer in the options. "Question number 45 in version E is wrong as none of the options given are correct," said  , a student from BASE, the training institute. 
 
  Biology students also noticed mistakes in their paper. For instance, one question contained the word 'animals' instead of 'following'. In another, instead of the word parturition (to produce) the question had the word 'population'. 
 
 "I was aware of the context in which the questions were asked, so I got my answer right," one student said. "It's nothing but irresponsibility on part of the team that prepared the question paper. It not a spelling error since the whole word is wrong." However, the Kannada version of the paper did not have the mistakes.
 
 Prof Hanumanthacharya Honnidibb, head of the department of biology, BASE, said the biology paper appeared to be skewed. 
 
 "For example, seven questions were from a single chapter, 'molecular basis of inheritance' while there were very few from the ecology unit," he said. He pointed out that well-prepared students could easily score 80 to 85%. 
 
 Milind Chippalakatti, vice-president, Deeksha Centre for Learning, said the maths paper was moderately easy, but lengthy. "The standard, level of difficulty has been maintained compared to last year,"   said. "The only difference was that it was lengthy this time. There was no change in the pattern too. An average student can score at least 30 marks." He said the paper contained 14 questions from I PU and 46 from II PU. 
 
  When asked about the alleged mistakes in the question papers, KEA authorities said students can have their say once the provisional key is displayed on the website. "The key will be on the website in a couple of days," a KEA official said. "After that students can file objections and the expert panel will look into it." 
 
 
