 (UNNAO): Stigma continues to haunt the people in Bangarmau town of   which is under the spotlight after detection of about 58 people carrying  .

 In Prem Ganj, one of the three villages where 38 had been found HIV positive, majority of houses don’t have toilet. Those with the infection are now being stopped from defecating in the fields by influential local people.
 
 Gangadeen, 54, who has been found HIV positive and lives on the outer part of Prem Ganj along with his four children, only wishes to have atoilet in his house which would not only prevent him from relieving in the open, but avoid wrath of ‘powerful’ locals.
 
 “We can’t use farmlands because they fear that they too will contract the virus,” said Gangadeen.
 
 “Rich and mighty have built toilets in their homes but the poor people like us cannot afford it,” said  , 45, another HIV positive from Prem Ganj.
 
 49 with HIV getting treatment in Kanpur
 
 Days after 58 people from Bangarmau in Unnao district were found HIV positive, 49 of them contacted doctors at the anti-retro viral therapy (ART) centre in Kanpur for treatment. They were reportedly infected by a quack,  , who allegedly used the same syringe to inject all patients, thus spreading the virus. 
 
 There are no toilets in our houses and we have to use either the area near the farms to relieve ourselves or railway tracks. Powerful and mighty people stop us from defecating in their fields, while RPF ( ) book us for tresspassing. It seems toilets are meant only for ‘rich’ and not for poor people like us,” says Parmanand, 60, another HIV positive.
 
 When contacted, an influential farmer said they cannot allow HIV positive people to use their farmlands for defecation. “They have already ruined their lives. If we will allow them, they will spread HIV virus and ruin us and our future generations,” he said. Govind, another HIV positive, said, “Only a couple of days ago I was threatened of dire consequences but I could not muster courage and file a complaint against him because none in my village was ready to support me.”
 
 Local corporator Sunil Kumar, meanwhile, said he had received complaints in this regard and he will request the district administration to build toilets particularly for the HIV affected patients in Prem Ganj.
 
 
 
 
