CHENNAI: When Natasha Badhwar decided to write her memoir on parenting, she chose to make her life an open book, first to her children, and then to her readers. And this included the fact that when she was 12 years old she had attempted suicide.

 "I have spent most of my life tiptoeing around that ‘event’," says Badhwar, who published her book ‘My Daughter’s Mum’ in late 2017. "Growing up, the silence between my   and me was extremely hurtful. We never found the words to talk to each other about it, even though it shook each one of us," says Badhwar, adding she did not want to repeat the pattern as a parent.
 
 Though her children never asked her about her suicide attempt, she says she has a scar on her right arm, which she is often asked to explain. And this time, before she wrote her book, she decided to do just that. "It is necessary for families to participate in this conversation. The disenchantment among the young is a universal experience," says Badhwar, who has written about her experience as a suicide survivor in her second book, which will hit the stands later this year.
 
 For Mumbai-based graphic designer Nita Bulani, when her son, who was studying in Chennai, opened up to her about his  , it gave her the confidence to talk about the fact that she was in a   crisis. "My marriage was breaking up and I was feeling suicidal. I felt better after talking to my children and letting them into my world. They helped me through it," says Bulani.
 
 Chennai-based child psychologist   says she sometimes encourages parents to be more open about their mental illness with their children. "When a parent has a dialogue with their adolescent, and opens up, in a trusting environment, it can help the child cope," says Madhu. "Parents need to explain mental illness like they would a physical ailment and encourage the child to ask questions," she says, adding that parents sometimes prefer to speak out in the presence of a mental health professional so all questions can be answered.
 
 Madhu adds that some parents with mental illness bring their children to her, worried about their genetic vulnerability. "We work with the children, making them understand what the parent is going through and giving them coping strategies," she adds. "Sometimes it makes the children speak about what they are going through, especially if it is manifesting as behavioural issues."
 
 Dr R Mani, who works at the city-based  , and created a bipolar support group a few years ago, says opening up depends on the level of awareness about the condition among family members. "We have had cases where parents have been called derogatory names by their teenage children after they opened up. That’s why most parents prefer to keep silent," says Dr Mani, adding that until mental illness is destigmatised, people will think twice before speaking about it.
 
 However, Badhwar says speaking to her children was a weight off her back. "As our older daughters cross into their adolescent years, they will experience many pressures that can lead to complex feelings and conflicts. If I could act on it at 12, they can cope with knowing about it at the same age," she says.
 
 
