CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court on Tuesday directed the Haryana director (health services) to conduct an inquiry and take action against doctors at the government medical college, Nalhar, Mewat, for delinquency while terminating pregnancy of a rape victim.

 Justice   of the HC passed these orders while disposing of a petition filed by a girl from Mewat area of Haryana. The girl had conceived after she was allegedly raped.
 
 “Court is constrained to observe that there has been a callous attitude on part of the medical authorities at Medical College, Nalhar, district Mewat as despite an application submitted to the hospital authorities on November 20, 2017 by the petitioner for termination of her pregnancy, no action whatsoever was taken for termination of the pregnancy at that stage. 
 
 The director, health services, Haryana, is directed to look into the matter and get an inquiry conducted and to take action against the delinquent officials/doctors,” ordered the judge.
 
 Considering the case of unwanted pregnancy due to rape, Justice Gill further directed the authorities to get her examined by a committee comprising of at least two doctors including a gynaecologist to be constituted by Civil Surgeon, Nuh. As per the HC orders, the committee shall examine the petitioner and opine as to whether there is any abnormality in the foetus or as to whether continuance of the pregnancy would entail danger to the life of the petitioner.
 
 “In case any such circumstances exist, the committee shall take a decision to terminate the pregnancy provided same does not entail risk to the life of the petitioner other than the risks normally involved in such procedures/surgeries,” ordered the HC.
 
 The girl has also been asked to remain present along with her father before the civil surgeon, Nuh on Wednesday.
 
 A direction has also been issued to preserve the foetus to enable DNA examination, if required at a later stage.
 
 The victim in this case had approached the HC seeking directions for termination of her 17-week pregnancy, allegedly resulting from her rape.
 
 She had argued before the HC that after a few months of the incident when she came to know that she was pregnant, she moved an application through her father on November 20, 2017 to the medical officer, medical college, Nalhar, for termination of pregnancy but no action was taken by the hospital authorities.
 
 
