VIJAYAWADA: Fishing in the troubled waters after the Union government has failed to make significant allocations in its annual budget to deliver its promises to Andhra Pradesh after bifurcation, political   in the state are busy trying to gain political mileage out of the situation by renewing their demand for the Special Category Status ( ) to the state. The political heat generated in the state in the past few days gives an impression that the parties are gearing up for the next elections.

 On Tuesday, the ruling Telugu Desam Party (TDP), under the leadership of its president and chief minister N Chandrababu, spent almost six to seven hours holding deliberatins with ministers and senior leaders on how to capitalise on the popular demand. The TDP is weighing its options on how to how to gain political advantage. The TDP is also mulling convening an ‘all-party’ meeting keeping the Opposition the   (YSRC) and the Congress at bay. If it materialises, it will be the first such initiative by the government.
 
 The Opposition YSRC too is engaged in exploring options to make the most of the demand for special category status. The party has chalked out an action plan to stage protests at the district collector’s offices in the state on March 1 and at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi on March 6. The party is also planning to continue its protest in both Houses of Parliament from March 5 to April 5 and threatened to make its MPs quit Parliament on April 6.
 
 With Jana Sena Party (JSP) chief Pawan Kalyan asking the Opposition to table the no-confidence motion in the Parliament, the YSRC took the challenge but wanted JSP and TDP to back its move.
 
 Pawan Kalyan had openly admitted that he would mobilise the support of 58 MPs in the Lok Sabha if YSRC served the no-trust motion on March 5. Though it had agreed to the no-trust move, the YSRC is not ready to accept the date set by Pawan Kalyan without getting an assurance from the TDP. Thus, both Jagan and Pawan have generated enough heat in the state politics, forcing the others to join the cacophony.
 
 The Left parties have also come up with an action programme to increase the heat and intensify the pressure. The Communist parties are set to hold a candle light rally in Visakhapatnam on February 24 and protests in Delhi in the first week of March. CPI state secretary K Ramakrishna had written a letter to the chief minister asking him to call an all-party meeting on special category status and bifurcation issues without delay. The CPI wanted the CM to act in the larger interests of the state without further delay.
 
 Meanwhile, the Congress is making its moves fast. The party had already served a notice to Lok Sabha Secretary General under Rule 184 seeking a debate on   issues. If this notice is not accepted, the Congress will get ready to serve the no-confidence motion. The Congress had already secured clearance for this two-fold strategy from Rahul Gandhi who had directed party floor leader Mallikharjun Kharge to act on it.
 
 AP Congress president N Raghuveera Reddy is in constant touch with the party’s senior leaders and the MPs of other parties.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress spokesman Kolanukonda Sivaji had asked the parties to support the no-confidence motion to be moved by the Congress. He sought to advise all political parties from the state, particularly the MPs, to support the motion that would make the government answerable to the state’s concerns.
 
