NEW DELHI: The opening match of the 11th season of the Indian Premier League ( ) is hours away, and former India captain   believes the tournament could not have gotten off with a more mouth-watering contest. On Saturday, defending champions   will host the returning   in game one at the Wankhede Stadium, and Srikanth was left to ponder how such a massive clash could effect MS Dhoni’s team as it makes a comeback after two years.

 
 
 
 “If these are not exciting times, what is? With all eight teams mixed and matched to perfection, the 11th edition of the IPL is generating that ‘new’ excitement the league did when it was launched in 2008,” wrote Srikkanth in his column for TOI. “In my opinion no two teams would make for a better inaugural tie than Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings. Not only have these two sides been extremely successful, they are also the two outfits that crack the right combination, early in the tournament.”
 
 
 
 Now that CSK are back in the IPL fray after a two-year suspension, and that too with four of the famous five forming the core of the current squad (R Ashwin slipped away at the auction this year), there is plenty of belief that a third IPL title can be added to the franchise’s cupboard. The franchise will once again be led by Dhoni, and backed by Suresh Raina (the franchise’s all-time leading run-getter), Dwayne Bravo (the second-highest wicket-taker) and Ravindra Jadeja (fifth-highest wicket-taker).
 
 Srikkanth, who was part of the CSK setup as an advisor a few seasons ago, was excited to see how Dhoni would handle a franchise that has not featured in the IPL for two years. 
 
 “It’s only obvious that all the talk is surrounded on CSK’s return after two seasons. Even though they have many of their old players in the mix, what one has to understand is that they have not played as a unit for a while. To get used to each other’s role will be the biggest challenge,” he wrote. “MS Dhoni remains the undisputed leader of the pack. His captaincy skills will also be tested as he has not led the Indian or his IPL team in close to two years. In a way, CSK will be trying to find their feet, and they could have only hoped for a slightly less intimidating opponent.”
 
 Mumbai Indians, led by Rohit Sharma, have won three IPL titles in the last five seasons. With that rate of success, expectations are high from the defending champions heading into  .
 
 “That shows how dominant they have been. Apart from showing the nous to pick high impact players in the auctions, Mumbai have also had the knack of nurturing players well. The Pandya brothers, Rayudu, and Rana are glowing examples of how they were allowed to express themselves on the biggest stage,” wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs.
 
 “The first few games are hardly an indicator on how Mumbai is shaping up. They have this happy knack of gaining momentum and peaking at the right time, but who wouldn’t want to start their campaign with a win against their arch rivals.” 
 
 The IPL runs from April 7 to May 27.
 
