NEW DELHI: Investigation into the murderous attack on orthopaedic surgeon   has led the police to a   whose members shot at the doctor at his farmhouse early Sunday morning. A few suspects from Sonipat and nearby areas were detained on Monday, including one named  . 

 The police also questioned Nagar’s brothers, Ronald and John, in connection with the attack. In his statement, Nagar said that he saw Khan at the spot and had seen him two or three days earlier at a wedding function too. 
 
 The probe has revealed that the three brothers had a major dispute over a   that Nagar had taken on lease. It had allegedly been sold off by a relative for Rs 9 crore while the actual value was Rs 100 crore. Nagar’s family said he had become apprehensive of his safety after a life threat and started carrying a licensed weapon with him. This gun helped him defend himself when attacked on Sunday. 
 
 “We have recorded the statement of the victim and are questioning a few people associated with him,” said DCP (south) Romil Baaniya. 
 
 TOI consulted the FIR, which elaborates on the entire sequence of events. It was lodged on the complaint of Nagar after he was declared out of danger on Sunday. 
 
 Nagar told police that after he had learnt that the land he had owned was sold off for Rs 9 crore, he had asked John to approach Badshahpur police station in Gurgaon and register a complaint. After an inquiry revealed the role of a private company, a group of men allegedly threatened him outside the police station itself. Ever since then, Nagar had been receiving different types of threats over the past few months. 
 
 One-and-a-half months ago, Nagar received a call from Khan who offered to mediate between him and the private company. They met at a coffee shop near Hauz Khas. But the meeting came to nought as John didn’t turn up, Nagar told the police. 
 
 He said that recently, at a wedding in Kirti Nagar, a family friend had arrived with a few men, one of whom was allegedly clicking Nagar’s videos during the function. When he objected to this, the family friend asked the man to leave. The next day, while Nagar was returning from somewhere on his motorcycle, he saw the same man clicking videos of his house.
 
 On Saturday, Nagar returned home from his clinic with his help and dropped her at the servant quarter. When he reached the gate of his farmhouse in his Kwid, three men carrying six pistols opened fire at him. Nagar claimed that he could identify two of the men, one of whom had threatened him earlier outside the police station and the other was the one who was allegedly clicking the videos. 
 
 “I was shot three times and managed to injure two of them on their shoulders. Later, I called the PCR and informed them about the incident,” Nagar said in his statement. 
 
 His daughter Tanvi claimed that he was attacked earlier in 2010 as well, which the police are trying to confirm. 
 
 
