MUMBAI: For yet another day, haze continued to envelop many parts of the city as pollution levels rose marginally. On Wednesday, an average air quality index (AQI) of 275 was recorded, compared to 271 a day ago. An   of between 201 and 300 is considered poor, meaning such air could be harmful to sensitive people.

 The day’s air quality was worse than in Delhi, which recorded an AQI of 211. Delhi’s AQI was a significant improvement over the previous day, when it was in the very poor category. Meanwhile, minimum temperatures in Mumbai rose.
 
 While Mumbai’s overall AQI was 275 (which falls in the poor category), among the 10 specific locations monitored by Safar in the city, six recorded an AQI in the very poor category (between 301 and 400). These were Mazgaon (342), Bhandup (327), Bandra Kurla Complex (327), Borivli (319), and Colaba (320). Navi Mumbai’s AQI too was similar—309.
 
 As for temperatures, at the IMD’s Colaba observatory, the minimum recorded was 23 degrees Celsius, compared to 21.5 degrees a day before. At Santacruz, the comparative readings were 21.5 and 19 degrees.
 
  Humidity levels recorded at Colaba and Santacruz were 80% and 51%. Explaining the rise in minimum temperatures in Mumbai, IMD scientist Ajay Kumar said, “Winds are easterly to north easterly in the night, which bring in warm air. Owing to this, temperatures are on the rise. Besides, there is a westerly trough, which is moving northwest of the country. This is pulling in a lot of moisture from the Arabian Sea.”
 
 The city’s AQI, measured by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), dipped owing to a spike in pollution. Marine Drive resident Mahendra Hemdev, who travelled widely during the day, said haze was spread across the city. “I was in Bandra and then in the evening came towards south Mumbai and noticed that the haze was everywhere. It was difficult to see things at a distance. The weather has been very gloomy and if felt that it would rain too at some point. The kind of weather Mumbai has been witnessing has not brought any respite from heat,” he said.
 
 Officials from Safar said air quality will improve from Friday. Dr Gufran Beig, project director, Safar, said, “While the air is in the poor category now, we are expecting the same to improve as the day progresses. There is a western disturbance which is pulling in a lot of moisture, but as the sun comes up, its heat would reduce moisture and pollution levels, thereby improving air quality.”
 
 An AQI of above 300, as recorded at various places in the city on Wednesday, falls in the very poor category and people with heart or lung diseases, older adults and children should avoid prolonged or heavy exertion.
 
 
