LUDHIANA: A   — who raped two women in the past one month in the name of moral policing — has been arrested by the police on Sunday. The accused — impersonating as a police official — used to target unmarried couples in  . There, he would threaten them, after which he would allow the man to vanish from there, and take the woman along and rape her. The accused has been identified as   Singh (23) of   village. He is married and has a seven-month-old daughter.

 On Friday evening, Balwinder kidnapped a 25-year-old woman from Rakh Bagh, who came to meet her boy-friend. He told them he was deputed at Rakh Bagh for taking action against unmarried couples. He threatened her boy-friend and forced him to leave, after which he took the woman along with him on his   motorcycle for further action, and raped her at an isolated place in   village. He then threatened her to keep mum and dropped her near  .
 
 The woman has lodged a case against the accused at police station Division No.8 on Saturday under sections 376 (rape), 365 (kidnapping), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-III) Gurpreet Kaur   said the accused used to earlier work as a salesman at a garment store. However, for the past few months, he was unemployed.
 
 The official added that he used to roam in Rakh Bagh in the evening to find unmarried couples. There, he would ask them about their relationship, and would tell them that if they were unmarried, they could not sit together in the park. He would also threaten to get them booked for meeting ‘illegally’, and inform their families.
 
 The complainant told police the accused had asked her to come with him to the police station, and told her friend to stay there in the park itself. He then forcefully took her to a house in Gill Chowk on his Royal Enfield motorcycle, and raped her there, after which he threatened her to keep mum, and fled.
 
  said the woman had jotted down the number of Balwinder’s motorcycle, and also said he had a tattoo on his hand. The police checked CCTVs installed in the city, traced the bike from its registration number, and also found a tattoo on Balwinder’s hand. Purewal added: “More important information is expected from the accused. It is possible that he had raped some more women, but they did not file any complaint.”
 
 Importantly, on December 30 last year, the accused had also kidnapped a 27-year-old woman who had come to Rakh Bagh along with her friend, and raped her. The woman had told the police that the accused claimed he was a police officer, and started questioning them, adding that senior officials had deputed him in the park in civil uniform to keep a tab on unmarried couples.
 
 
