NEW DELHI: After police intercepted the two men who were dealing in   drugs, they discovered that the packets in which the spurious   were being distributed had the batch numbers and manufacturing and expiry dates of the   products so that even an experienced buyer would not suspect anything wrong. The men, Ashok Kumar and Bijender Singh, admitted to producing up to 3,000 pills each day and these would be packaged with original embossments and batch numbers using a batching machine that Singh had assembled.

 Cops have learnt that after receiving an order for a particular drug, Kumar would look for original packets of the same formulations with recent manufacture date and  . His fakes would then have the same expiry date to make the stock look authentic. Kumar scanned the market to assess the demand for a particular medicine and produced it for sale. The two men often fabricated vitamin tablets and anti-allergic drugs in the winter months and antacids in summer.
 
 “Ashok could replicate the look of any medicine using identical capsules available in the market,” revealed a police officer. “He was an expert in matching and choosing the correct size and colour of the capsules in which to fill the compounds.” The cops are trying to trace the shops in Sadar Bazar from where he sourced the empty capsules.
 
 Singh and Kumar filled the capsules by hand and sealed them using the stripping machine which presses the two parts of the capsules together to lock the content. They sorted the capsules and left them to dry before packing them.
 
 The design and colour of the foil packs in which the tablets and capsules were packed were scanned from the original that the men procured from medicine shops. The investigators said that Kumar skilfully replicated these on the foil   they used.During interrogation, the two men told the cops that producing each capsule cost them Rs 3-4.5, but they sold it at around five times the production price. The accused even offered a discount to the medical representatives if they bought the medicines in bulk. Singh confessed to police that every week, their consignments fetched them Rs 3-4 lakh. 
 
 The cops expect the men to have supplied more than five lakh capsules and tablets to shops across the city. The pharmaceutical compounds that were filled into the capsules or turned into tablets were sourced through contacts from factories. This aspect of the racket is also being probed.
 
 
