GHAZIABAD: A 34-year-old   shot at twice lay bleeding in a   in Muradnagar through Friday night before she was spotted by some locals the next morning and taken to a hospital.

 The woman, Manju, has been admitted to GTB Hospital in Delhi with bullet   in the back and chest. Doctors said her condition was serious.
 
 Police said though Manju, a resident of Bhojpur, was not in a position to speak, she had blamed her in-laws in a video that the group that had spotted her in the morning had shot before taking her to the hospital. 
 
 “A man named Amit Tyagi had brought me here saying my husband had met with an accident. My in-laws, including my husband’s sister and his elder brother’s wife, and a man named Ashok are behind this attack,” she says in the video clip.
 
 Manju’s husband Manveer, a guard with a private agency, has lodged a complaint at Murdanagar police station. An FIR has been lodged under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC. The police have named “Amit Tyagi” as the main accused.
 
 Manju was initially taken to a nearby private hospital but shifted to Delhi when her condition deteriorated. Police have recorded her statement in hospital. Sources said her in-laws were likely to be included in FIR.
 
 Manju had been living with her husband Manveer in a rented accommodation on Rawli Road in Bhojpur for past five years. But she had been staying alone in a flat in Madhuban-Bapudham for past three weeks.
 
 A preliminary investigation has revealed that Amit Tyagi had picked up Manju from the flat where she was staying recently around 7.30pm on Friday. She was most likely to have been shot at around 8.30pm. The woman lay bleeding and barely conscious the whole night before being spotted in wee hours.
 
 “We’re waiting for her condition to improve in order to make further inquiries about the attack. The circumstances in which she had been living alone are also being investigated. We are trying to track the person who shot at her,” SP (rural) Arvind Maurya said.
 
 
