In the latest episode of  , Deep says that he won't let injustice happen to Vedika. He asks her for some time and takes her phone. Arohi searches for him.

 
 Arohi tells Chawanni that she is losing the game to Deep and Roma, since Deep is getting closer to the truth. She says that she has to separate Deep and Vedika otherwise he would discover the truth about Arohi's identity.
 
 Prithvi finds Vedika still living in the house and asks her why she had not left. Vedika says that she wanted to spend some time with her parents. She asks him why he lied to her about Roma being her mother. Prithvi says that somebody is trying to fool her but Vedika says she has the photo as a proof. She tells him that Deep helped her. Prithvi is shocked to learn this.
 
 Deep goes through Vedika's phone and reads the messages. Prithvi asks Vedika to leave the house as soon as possible and says that Deep cannot be trusted. Vedika doesn't believe him and says that if Prithvi threatens her anymore, she will commit suicide.
 
 Tara (Arohi) collides with Vedika on her way. The latter gets emotional when Tara mocks her about being an orphan. Arohi then asks Chawanni to keep an eye on Vedika's whereabouts.
 
 Tara meets Roma in her room, who is in a celebratory mood after the interviews. Vedika walks in with tea. Roma hugs Tara, which makes Vedika very jealous.
 
 Roma asks Vedika when she is planning to leave. The latter says that she is searching for a place. Vedika mixes something in Tara's (Arohi) drink, since she is jealous seeing her and Roma bond well.
 
 Deep decides to find out the person who was trying to text Vedika. He sends a false message from her phone about Vedika wanting to leave the house, hoping that the person would try to save Vedika.
 
 
  
 Arohi reads the messages and says that she has to stop Vedika from going. She goes to the bus stand to look for her, and finds Deep waiting there.
 
 Chawanni calls Arohi and says that Vedika is in the house. He tells her that somebody is trying to fool her. Arohi looks around and finds Deep. She runs away.
 
 Arohi, who had the drink, faints on the road. The crowd gathers. Deep is also present there. When he comes to help, he finds out that it isTara.
 
 Deep takes Tara to the hospital. He informs Roma and Virat about the same. Prithvi questions Vedika if she tried to poison Tara. She agrees. Dilip hears them talking.
 
 Roma, Deep and Virat wait while the doctor operates on Tara. The doctor comes out and tells Deep that his wife had been poisoned by someone.
 
 
  
 
