Jaipur: Congress' free medicine and diagnostic test scheme failed to get a mention in chief minister Vasundhara Raje's Budget speech. 

 Raje mentioned about her flagship schemes like Bhamashah Swasthya Bima Yojna (BSBY), Mukhya Mantri Rajshree Yojna, Mukhya Mantri Saksham Balika Yojna but did not mention about free medicine and diagnostic test schemes which were launched by the previous Congress government.
 
 Recently, former chief minister Ashok Gehlot too had expressed worries that due to the BJP's inefficiency, the much-lauded free medicine scheme has totally collapsed in the state. However, the state government claimed that during 2017-18 (up to December) an expenditure of Rs 322 crore has been incurred on free medicines. 
 
 More than six states, including Odisha and southern states of the country, took lessons from the state on implementation of free medicine scheme in their respective states. 
 
 But, situation is getting changed. Patients are finding it difficult to get medicines. Those suffering from kidney related ailment staged protest outside the Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital on Monday as they are not getting medicine like they were getting earlier.
 
 “Earlier, we were getting medicine for one month but now we are getting it for only seven days. We come from distant places and we will not be able to come frequently every week for medicine,” said Mujahid Naqvi, a kidney patient. 
 
 Besides, social activists believe that there should be more allocation of budget to the health sector. “While overall the health budget has shown an increase in monetary terms from Rs 10,800 crore in 2017-18 to about Rs12,813 crore in this budget, however, taking inflation into account the increase is negligible,” said Chhaya Pachauli, a social activist. 
 
 She said, “The focus of the budget has largely been on augmenting health infrastructure by bringing about new health facilities and upgrading the existing ones, without any thought on how the government is going to meet the mammoth shortfall of human resources including that of doctors, pharmacists, lab technicians etc, which has for long been an issue of grave concern for the state.”
 
 However, the state government claimed that it had already spent Rs 322 crore on free medicines till December 2017 in 2017-18. “During 2017-18, as per the essential drug list 606 medicines, 77 sutures and 147 surgical items were listed. Under the scheme, medicines for the treatment of critical and severe disease are also available. During 2017-18 (up to December 2017), an expenditure of Rs 322 crore has been incurred,” says a state government report. 
 
 The report further added, “Under free diagnostic test scheme, 17.9 crore investigations and 9.41 crore beneficiaries have been benefitted up to December 2017.”
 
 Both schemes were launched during the tenure of the Congress government but it has always been alleged that the scheme is dying slow death in the BJP regime. But, ruling BJP government too claimed that they have implemented the scheme much better than the Congress government.
 
 According to the government figures, the former government had spent Rs554 crore till November 30, 2013 since launch of free medicine scheme on October 2, 2011. The scheme aims to benefit all the patients coming to government hospitals. Under the scheme, all outdoor and indoor patients visiting medical college attached hospitals, district hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres and sub centres are provided commonly used essential medicines free of cost. 
 
 But in four years, since 2013 (till December 2017) during BJP government, a sum of Rs 1,515 crore so far has been spent on free medicine. 
 
 
