LUDHIANA: In a high profile drama, Tuesday late night, a case was registered under sections 353, 186, 451 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Lok Insaaf Party leader and MLA from Atam Nagar,   and his unknown supporters at   station. The FIR was registered against Bains upon the complaint of Assistant Passport Officer (APO) Ludhiana Yash Pal. 

 In his written complaint given to commissioner of police, Ludhiana and SHO Model Town, Yash Pal has accused Bains and his supporters of trespassing and forceful entry into the passport sewa kendra (located near  ) on Tuesday afternoon and has also alleged that Bains took armed guards in the premises along with him and also misbehaved with security guard and even scared the applicants. 
 
 APO has also claimed that supporters of Bains had even made videos inside the passport office which is not permitted since this office falls secured zone of working and moreover taking arms is not allowed and entry into the premises is also on the basis of prior appointment or with approval of competent authority.
 
 However refuting claims of APO and lashing out against him, Simarjit Singh Bains said, "These are baseless and false allegations levelled by the APO against me and my supporters. We went to the passport office after we came across a travel agent who was making forged identity proofs of the applicants and helped them get a passport made. As after being caught red handed the agent fled from the spot, we went to confront the APO to ask him how this network of forged identity proofs was running right under his nose and how the staff at this office was processing applications of such applicants without cross checking the proofs and on the other hand innocent applicants are being turned back and refused passport for even a minor discrepancy. How this nexus threatening our national security is running between passport office staff and travel agents is running with APO turning a blind eye to this." 
 
 Bains also added, "Moreover how can he term this as trespassing since I am the MLA of the area and I have every right to go into any government office to ensure smooth and transparent working in that office? Moreover, SHO Model Town was on the spot along with us during our so called trespassing and forceful entry into the passport office, to whom a complaint against the travel agent was lodged immediately before we entered the passport office."
 
 Warning passport office staff to mend their ways, Bains said he would expose the nexus between the staff and travel agents soon and take the APO to the court for leveling false accusations against an elected representative. However on Wednesday elder brother of Bains, MLA Balwinder Singh met police commissioner   and demanded that case against Bains be withdrawn as charges levelled by APO against him are totally false. 
 
 
