NAGPUR: The state government has set itself a target of setting-up an   form the coming academic year. While state board officials have assured that the board will start at the earliest, educationists raised doubts over its effective functioning. 

 On July 14 last year, the state government had issued a government resolution (GR) stating that an open schooling board will be made operation in the state from the 2018-19 academic session. According to the GR, the Maharashtra State Open Schooling Board will function on the lines of the   of Open Schooling ( ) and will focus on vocational education.
 
 Chairman of the Maharashtra state board of secondary and higher secondary education Shakuntala Kale told TOI that the work for starting the open board was in progress. “We are preparing the learning materials for different subjects with the help of experts,” said Kale, who could not give a clarity on whether the state will be able to meet its target.
 
 TOI could not contact state education minister  . Education experts said that the state needs to speed up the process to achieve its target.
 
 Sachin Desai, who runs a study centre for experiential learning and sustainable development in Sindhudurg district, had filed a petition in Nagpur bench of   in 2015. The PIL had demanded that the government should not tag homeschooled kids as ‘out-of-education’ during surveys. “With NIOS in place, the state government already has many things on patter. Learning models are also available and the government should definitely stick to its deadline this time,” said Desai.
 
 He pointed out that in 2011 too, the then state school education minister Rajendra Darda had planned to introduce open schooling in the state but in vain. “The state has been toying with the idea for a long time now. Though issuing a GR was a welcome step, the challenge is to implement it effectively and not just for name sake,” said Desai.
 
 While around 15 states in the country have open boards, Desai said that most of them are not running in good shape. “Chattisgarh seems to be doing a good job but in many states, people are not even aware of the existence of open boards. At many places, concerned officials are still under the impression that open schooling is only for mentally or physically challenged children,” said Desai.
 
 In view of this, creating mass awareness on open schooling board would be a big challenge for the state. “A 14-year-old boy, who sells peacock feathers near   in Mumbai, can speak 14 languages — thanks to his frequent interactions with foreigners. These are the kind of skill-based learners who should come under open schooling,” added Desai.
 
 
