KOTA: A 40-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by six youths in   and the crime filmed and uploaded on  .

 
 The rape was, however, committed a month ago. The survivor lodged a complaint with the Mahila police station in Baran after she came to know that the video has been uploaded on social media. Police have booked six persons under various sections of the IPC and IT Act, but none of the accused has been arrested so far. 
  
 
 
 The woman, who works at a roadside Dhaba near   in Kota, lodged acase of gang-rape, filming and uploading the video of the crime against six youths on March 5, said Mahila police station SHO Baran Anis Ahamed.
 
 
 In her complaint, the survivor alleged that when she came to Baran about a month ago to visit her in-laws’ family, one of the accused, identified as   (21), a resident of Hingoniya village in the area and a person who was familiar to her, took her on his motorbike to an isolated place near Samaspura village on the pretext of dropping her at the inlaws’ residence.
 
 
 
 
  At an isolated place near Samaspur, five others joined Chetan Meena and all the six took turns to rape her, the victim said, alleging that the accused youths also filmed the crime on mobile.
 
 
 On the next day, they dropped her near the inlaws’ home and threatened to kill her family members if she disclosed the crime.
 
 
 Later, when the survivor came to know that the video has been uploaded on social media and circulated throughout the area, she gathered courage to lodge the complaint. In the video, three persons are visible committing the crime and recording it on mobile, the SHO added.
 
 
 Following the complaint, a case has been registered under Section 376 of the IPC and sections of the IT Act against Chetan Meena (21) and five others and investigation has begun, the SHO said.
 
 
 The statement of the survivor under Section 164 will be recorded before the magistrate on Monday, he said. Further investigation has been handed over to DSP, Baran. The accused in the case have not been arrested so far.
 
 
