NEW DELHI: Cab aggregator   will continue to pour money into its loss-making India operations, which account for one-tenth of its trips. Its CEO   said the country, identified as a key growth market, will remain in focus and investor SoftBank may not solely drive the strategy.

 
 “We will actively invest in India and Latin America that have huge growth ahead of us,” said Khosrowshahi, adding that growth could be five-10 times over the next decade. The CEO of Iranian-origin, who replaced founder Travis Kalanick five months ago, repeatedly said profit will not necessarily determine Uber’s strategy as it believed in “building liquidity in the marketplace”, which meant expanding the base.
 
 Asked if SoftBank, which is also an investor in rival and India’s market leader Ola, has asked Uber to focus on the profitable market, Khosrowshahi said the company’s strategies are decided by the board. “While SoftBank may have an opinion, their’s is not the only one in the room.” Acknowledging   as a good competitor, he said the home-grown rival was driving the global giant to innovate and compete.
 
  
  
 
 “The greatest value that we can create here is to continue to invest and grow our business here, not just for India but the role it is going to play in shaping our product for the rest of the world,” he told reporters during his first trip to the country to participate in the Economic Times Global Business Summit. India is Uber’s largest market outside the US and the company currently operates in 29 cities with 3 lakh drivers.
 
 Sharing the company’s future strategy, the former Expedia CEO said Uber will partner with several companies, including Toyota for autonomous vehicles, which may be plying on a commercial basis in less than a year and indicated that the Japanese auto giant’s concept autonomous vehicle will be based on the cab company’s software. 
 
 He also identified Elevate, the proposed air taxi, as a key transport solution to address congestion in the future and said the product could be in the market in five-10 years. Uber was looking at being a “mobility” company, offering multiple solutions with UberEats also identified as a key growth opportunity, he added.
 
 Although he acknowledged that Uber was losing money on UberPool, the cab-sharing product, Khosrowshahi said that it offered a solution to reduce congestion and the company was going to focus on it. “We as a company need to have a balanced profile in terms of growth and investment. There are developed markets...we are going to continue to invest and they are going to be more profitable...and we should actively be investing in markets like India and Latin America that have huge growth ahead of us,” he said as he was asked repeatedly about how the company was going to pare losses.
 
 Khosrowshahi, who took charge after Kalanick was asked to step down by the board, said he was working to change the culture at the company through a new set of norms that were crowdsourced. 
 
 He was more candid during a conversation with Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant as part of a discussion on the future of sustainable mobility, held at National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi, on Thursday. “US is a nation of immigrants at its core. The American dream is something that everyone understands around the world. They understand that if you work hard, you can make it. I was incredibly lucky to get to America at a time when immigrants were welcome. If you look at the Indians who are leading tech companies, such as Satya Nadella and Sundar, it’s fascinating. I feel lucky to be an American. I hope the country returns to its roots and welcomes people again.”
 
 
