NEW DELHI: The split in the  , the final appellate authority for Right to Information (RTI) Act, is wide open. Two information commissioners have openly questioned the motive behind making public internal discussions and identifying them for their opposition to government proposed   rules.
 
  At the monthly meeting of the Commission last week, information commissioners   and M  , who had earlier opposed provisions of government’s draft RTI rules, questioned the motive behind making public their opposition and internal discussions in the November meeting of the Commission. Both Azad and Acharyulu had criticised introduction of new rules that give more powers to Chief Information Commissioner to assign any RTI appeal to a commissioner in larger public interest. At a full Commission meeting in November, Azad and Acharyulu expressed strong reservations to insertion of a new Rule 15 and said it would be “misused” by the government.
  
  Last week, the full Commission meeting called to bid farewell to retiring information commissioner   saw the information commissioners pointing out that they had been identified for their opposition in the minutes of meetings issued. A source said, “Their views were that of the Commission and were endorsed by other information commissioners. In fact, the final view sent to the department of personnel and training was of the entire Commission and not of different commissioners.” The angry information commissioners pointed out the need to keep CIC away from the influence of the government and said that singling out commissioners puts a question mark on independence of the transparency watchdog.
  
  This is not the first clash within the Commission. There have been similar face-offs over the last two months. Another bone of contention was the choice of chief guest to CIC’s annual convention, which is a high-profile annual event to commemorate the anniversary of RTI Act enactment. Information commissioners had suggested different names, including that of Chief Justice of India, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi could not spare time for the event. The chief decided on Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu for the December event. Azad had boycotted the event.
  
