LUCKNOW: Accommodating father Mulayam Singh’s choice,   president   Yadav on Friday declared   as the party’s candidate for the   polls scheduled for March 23. The 69-year-old actress-turned-politician filed her nomination papers for the Upper House as the sole SP candidate.

 Party insiders said Akhilesh preferred Jaya to two senior leaders – party vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda and general secretary   who were also in the race — to placate Mulayam, whom he had replaced as the party president after infighting broke out within SP’s first family in the run-up to the 2017 UP elections. Jaya’s nomination, senior SP leaders believe, could help reduce the bitterness between the father and the son.
 
 “I discussed her candidature with Netaji (Mulayam) and he supported it,” Akhilesh told TOI on Friday evening. Jaya made public her indebtedness to Mulayam. “Netaji aur adhyakshaji ka abhaar ki unkone mujhe phir se Rajya Sabha ka ummeedwar banaya (I thank Mulayam and the party president for re-nominating me as the party candidate),” she said after filing her nomination papers at Vidhan Bhawan on Friday afternoon.|
 
 This is the fourth time that Jaya Bachchan will make it to the Rajya Sabha. In the previous three stints, it was Mulayam who had sent her to the Upper House as the party president. The Bachchans have been close to the SP patriarch for over two decades as family friends. While Amitabh had initially campaigned for SP during elections, Jaya has been a star campaigner for the party ever since her association with SP.
 
 Jaya was accompanied by SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s wife and Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav, Sahara India’s Subrata Roy and outgoing SP MP Kiranmoy Nanda when she went to file the nomination papers.
 
 Reacting to a question why SP leadership preferred her over other senior leaders like Naresh Agarwal and Kiranmoy Nanda, Jaya shot back: “Kya main senior nahi hun?” Nanda, who stood by her side, smiled and said, “Hum bhi saath hain inke...”
 
 With only 47 MLAs, SP can send just one member to the Rajya Sabha. BSP, which has supported SP in Gorapkhpur and Phulpur parliamentary byelections, has sought latter’s support in winning an RS seat.
 
 As per the affidavit filed by her, the wealth of Jaya and her husband doubled from around Rs500 crore in 2012 to around Rs1,000 crore this year.
 
