Ludhiana: The Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) has initiated an Indian stroke clinical trial network with the help of Indian Council of Medical Research (Government of India) to come up with solutions to problems in stroke patients. The main focus is to develop low-cost or no-cost solutions to reduce the overall cost burden on patients.

 SPRINT INDIA (Secondary Pr​event​i​o​n By Structured Semi-Interactive S​t​roke Prevention Package in India) is the first study under this network which has been initiated by CMCH.
 
 Stroke is the second leading cause of death worldwide, but importantly, 80% of stroke cases are preventable. However, lack of knowledge proves to be a major hurdle to reduce the incidence of recurrent stroke and cardiovascular morbidity. This is further compounded by the non-compliance to medications and lack of exercise.
 
 The stroke incidence in India ranges from 135 to 145 per 1 lakh population. From the recent Ludhiana population based stroke registry, 25% of the patients are below 49 years of age. Hypertension, smoking, alcohol, diabetes, heart disease and lifestyle related problems are the common causes of stroke in India. India has a population of 1.3 billion out of which 14 lakh people are expected to suffer stroke in India in a year. Out of this 14lakh population, 20% will again have a recurrent stroke within a year of suffering the first stroke. This risk is 15 times more than in the general population. Recurrent stroke makes a person physically and mentally disabled.
 
 The incidence of recurrent stroke has significantly reduced to 4% in the developed countries. Stroke awareness has proven to be useful in improving early arrival of stroke patients to emergency thus increasing the thrombolysis rates. Early stroke prevention education using print and audio-visual media may be useful. The importance of medical literacy and health education may make a difference in the recurrent stroke rate in India.
 
 The SPRINT India study aims to check how increasing the awareness about the risk factors and adherence to medication will bring down the recurrent stroke rate in India. The study will be carried out in 27 centres across the country. The study will be coordinated from CMCH, Ludhiana, under the leadership of Dr Jeyaraj Pandian, principal and professor of neurology; and Dr Mahesh Kate, HoD, neurology department. This study will go on for five years and will recruit approximately 6,000 patients all over India.
 
 
