JAIPUR: The high court has summoned additional chief secretary (ACS), home department, for non-compliance of its order regarding modernization of jails. The court said that if the government does not comply with its order and file a point-by-point compliance report with an affidavit by May 28, the ACS would have to appear in the court and contempt proceedings would be initiated against him.

 The division bench of justices M Rafiq and   gave the direction during the hearing of a suo motu petition on jail reforms. The court expressed its disappointment over the report filed by AAG Jagmohan Saxena.
 
 The court observed that the government had not complied with many of the points in the 45-point direction issued by the court. The court said that despite several directions, the appointment of non-official visitors had not been made so far.
 
 The court said, “Instead of initiating contempt proceedings against the ACS (home) straight away, we give a last chance to comply with court directions. It is the last opportunity and no more chances will be given. Either comply with the order before May 28 or the ACS (home) will have to appear in the court to face contempt proceedings.”
 
 R N Mathur, the counsel for BHEL which supplied the mobile jammers to jails, proposed to replace low-capacity jammers installed in Jaipur and Jodhpur with high-capacity ones, and shift the low-capacity jammers to Ajmer, Bikaner and  . However, a decision in this regard must be taken by the government, he said.
 
 The high court earlier had issued 45 directions to the government covering various aspects of jail administration, including general hygiene and sanitation, vocational training, health, food and recreation. The court also proposed to set up five more central jails in the state to decongest the existing ones.
 
 The court directions include screening of a movie every fortnight for the entertainment of the inmates. It also asked the government to sanction Rs 50,000 per annum for the purchase of sports material and sports activities to reduce aggression and improve mental health of inmates. To keep the mental health of the inmates, it asked the jail administration to introduce yoga and meditation on a regular basis. 
 
 
