CHENNAI: This World Wetlands Day, three water bodies in the city have another lease of life thanks to joint efforts by the civic body,   and non-governmental biodiversity research organisation  .

 The water bodies that have been restored are   lake in Pallikaranai,  , and the Korattur-Madhavaram-Ambattur lakes.
 
 CareEarth Trust co-founder Jayashree Vencatesan said a study by a team of researchers from her organisation revealed that while smaller wetlands have disappeared, mid-sized wetlands have lost their area by nearly 65%. “The reservoirs that we chose for restoration are unchanged in terms of area and capacity. Several other water bodies in the city have either been reclaimed as terrestrial systems, or their water holding capacity compromised and the area ruined due to solid waste and sewage disposal,” she said.
 
 In terms of cleaning efforts, Narayanapuram lake, said Vencatesan, had a thick sheet of water hyacinth, an invasive weed species, which was cleared using earthmovers. “Authorities of a temple and administrators of a church in the area extended their support without which the work would not have been completed on time,” she said.
 
 In Perungalathur, sewer water from nearby areas as well as from a couple of industrial units had drained into the lake. Vencatesan and team, with the help of the local community, approached the management of a private company, which readily agreed to plug the sewer lines that drained into the   lake.
 
 For the Korattur, Madhavaram and Ambattur lakes, which are spread over 160 hectares, the CareEarth Trust team has given the Public Works Department a detailed proposal for restoration.
 
 “Maximising the wetland area, improving ground water recharge, conservation of the native species of flora, and creating areas for community interaction were some of our main objectives, said Vencatesan.
 
 Besides the scientific assessment, the organisation also held community outreach events, the most popular among them being a street play in which a king laments the condition of the Perungalathur lake. “This street play became very popular among locals. In Narayanapuram, we held a painting competition for local children with the theme ‘My Beautiful Lake’. The children were asked to suggest ways to protect water bodies,” said Vencatesan.
 
