LUDHIANA: Making best efforts to promote girls education, two UK and Canada-based NGOs being run by NRIs have adopted four girls of Barundi village, 31km away from Ludhiana city, for their education. All four girls belong to a poor family background. However, fighting all odds, they have been scoring excellent marks.

 Seva Trust of UK and Global Girls Power of Canada are NGOs being run by   and Lucky Gill respectively, who have roots in Ludhiana. On Friday, the NGOs adopted four girls –  , Sapna Rani, Prabhjot Kaur, and another girl (the daughter of HIV parents) — who are meritorious students. However, due to their financial conditions, they are facing hurdles to pursue further education.
 
 Sekhon, who belongs to Barundi village, said: “The Seva Trust and Global Girls Power have raised a fund of Rs 1 lakh, which has been distributed among five students — including these four girls — for their education. Our organizations will further keep sending them money till the time they want to study.”
 
 Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM-Raikot) Kanu Thind distributed cheques of Rs 20,000 each to the four girls on Friday. A cheque of Rs 20,000 was also given to   — a student of class VI of Sahli village — who writes with his foot.
 
 
 
 Manpreet Kaur (21) is certainly not living an easy life. Her day starts by working in houses as a domestic help, followed by her college, and ends again working in the houses of her village. Manpreet’s mother Paramjeet Kaur is separated from her husband for long. Paramjeet has been working as a domestic help in the village to earn for her family, and later, both her daughters also joined her.
 
 For the past two years, Manpreet has been working as a domestic help and studying simultaneously. Fighting all odds, she managed to score 70% marks in class 12. However, after that, she could not arrange money for her admission in college. Then, with the help of a college professor, she got admission in a college where she is getting a fee concession.
 
 She says: “I, my mother, and younger sister earn a total of Rs 4,000 a month. In this income, we can hardly earn a meal for three times. With the help of a professor, I managed to get admission in BA-I. However, I have been paying transport fee and examination fee. But with our total income, I am not even able to pay for transport.”
 
 She wakes up at 5am, and starts working in houses from 6am to 7am. By 8am, her college bus comes to pick her up. She returns from college by 3.30pm, and again works as a help in houses till 6.30pm. She said: “ At times, we don’t have enough food to eat, and in this condition, how could I get an education. I am so thankful to Seva Trust and Global Girls Power for sponsoring my education. I want to become a teacher and support my family. I don’t want my younger sister to work in houses to arrange money for my education.”
 
 
 
 
 Sapna Rani (17), who had cleared class 12 in 2016-17 with 69% marks, had to drop further studies as her family could not arrange money. Sapna’s parents work as labourers in the village. To support her family, her elder brother also started working after class 5.
 
 She said: “We our four siblings. My two brothers work with my father as labourers, and my younger sister studies in school. I wanted to study further after school, however we had nobody. I felt really bad when I went to school to get my detailed marks card, and everyone was asking if I had got admission in a college. For the past one year, I am at home helping my mother in household chores.”
 
 However now, with the help of NGOs, Sapna is getting admission in BCA in a private college. She said: “After graduation, I will pursue a Masters Degree, and want to become a banker.”
 
 
 
 Prabhjot Kaur (16) studies in a school affiliated to CBSE. However, two years ago, when her father fell into depression, hard times started for her family. Prabhjot’s father Sukhwinder Singh lost his land and transportation business last year, following which he fell into depression. He also attempted suicide. The family also lost their elder son, a taxi driver, who was killed by robbers in Delhi.
 
 “I study in class X and my monthly fee is Rs 1,530, while my brother’s monthly fee — who studies in class IV — is Rs 1,160. After my father went into depression, it was hard for us to pay even our monthly fees. Then, my mother started stitching clothes to earn a living. Besides, my paternal uncles helped us by sending rations and some cash.”
 
 Prabhjot said her family was planning to shift both children to a government school. She says she wants to pursue commerce stream next year, and earn money for her family.
 
 
 
 
 She scored 72% marks in class XII. However, recently when her father met with an accident, he was diagnosed with HIV. After that, her mother also got her tests done, and she too was found HIV positive.
 
 The girl’s father was a truck driver. But since the time he was diagnozed with HIV, he left the house, and he has not returned home for the past nine months. Meanwhile, his wife has been working as a labourer in village farms. She said: “My mother is getting her treatment in hospital, but by working as a labourer in farms, she is not able to earn enough for my education.”
 
 She got admission in BBA last year, and is now getting sponsorship for her college fee.
 
 
