TRICHY: Many of the candidates who wrote the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) found it easier compared to the previous year. However, physics may play spoilsport for many candidates who said the questions were of the standards of the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) to IITs. 

 A total of 9,056 of the 9,420 candidates who applied for the exam appeared for the test at 12 centres in Trichy. S Shalini from Pudukkottai who appeared at Kamala Niketan Montessori School said she found questions in biology the easiest followed by chemistry but those in physics were hard to crack. “I attempted only 10 out of the total 45 questions in physics as I didn’t want to gain negative marks for false answers,” said Shalini who is expecting above 200 marks out of the total 720. 
 
 “We can spend only a minute on an average on each question given the total time but we will have to spend at least 3 minutes for each question asked in physics,” said M Dharshini who wrote her exam at   global school. “As the questions demand calculations and application of formulas, I chose to ignore half of them. Such questions are asked only in the JEE exams,” she said. 
 
 However, A Nishanthini from Manachanallur, who was attempting NEET for the second time, says she answered 30 of the 45 questions in the physics section and expected to get a majority of the answers correct. However, she is keeping her fingers crossed as she says that the cutoff marks are most likely to be more given the fact that the paper was easy and more candidates were expected to score well. 
 
 Compared to last year, candidates who appeared for NEET had less frisking troubles at the centres as they said they had prepared “for the worst”. A majority of the candidates followed the instructions laid down by CBSE. However, as always, some candidates came wearing earrings which were allowed only after they were removed. A candidate came in jeans which had to be changed to leggings which her parents managed to buy after rushing to a nearby shop. 
 
 
