CHENNAI:   FC (CCFC) might be struggling with their on-field performances, but it is scoring off the field. The I-League club on Friday announced that it has entered into a   ( ) with   (CSCL) - a company that implements the central government’s Smart City projects - to redevelop and maintain Coimbatore’s   for the next five years commencing from November 2017. The Nehru Stadium has served as CCFC’s home ground this season.

 
 It was also learnt that CCFC and CSCL have agreed to form a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), under which a world-class multi-sport residential Smart Sports City will be built by 2022. The project, which will cost around Rs 250-300 crore, is part of Coimbatore’s smart city plan. While the land for the sports city will be provided by Coimbatore corporation, CSCL will allocate the funds. CCFC will be responsible for the planning, design, construction and budgeting of the stadium.
 
 The facility will come up within 10-15 km radius of Coimbatore airport and will be built on a 50-acre land. It will be home to football, cricket, athletics and badminton among other sports. There will also be residential facilities, school, artificial turf grounds and swimming pools. A highly-placed CSCL official, on condition of anonymity, confirmed the development to TOI.
 
 “Coimbatore is an industrial city. But we don’t have a proper sports infrastructure. So we were planning to build a sports city in Coimbatore for the last two years with some of the smart city funds. But we didn’t quite know whom to approach and how to go about it. When CCFC came to play their matches in Coimbatore, we saw how they refurbished the Nehru stadium and were highly impressed with their way of functioning. It was then that we decided that we will use their expertise to build the sports city. It will have state-of-the-art facilities and we want to host international football, cricket and athletics event,” the official told TOI on Friday.
 
 The SPV is likely to come in place by April, after which work will start for the project. CCFC co-owner and CEO Rohit Ramesh said that they will bring in international expertise to finish the project. “Coimbatore had last hosted a match almost 17 years earlier before CCFC’s games. We had spent over Rs 3.5 crores on Coimbatore’s Nehru stadium floodlights, pitch and dressing rooms. The Coimbatore Municipal Corporation saw our efforts and they came forward to invest Rs 2.25 crore, helping us build two new high-mast floodlights with 48 fittings in each tower. It was then that we thought since we are using Coimbatore as our base, why not approach the local government. And everything fell into place. We will bring in also had a commitment towards AIFF (All India Football Federation) that we will build a new stadium. So we will use the help of international companies and the respective sports bodies to build the facility,” said Rohit.
 
