MOHALI: Family and relatives of an 11-year-old girl, who has been missing from   in   since August 10 protested against police inaction on Wednesday as cops have failed to trace her till now. 

 "I want to see my daughter dead or alive; I just want to meet her," said the 11-year-old's inconsolable mother, who works as a part-time domestic worker. The girl's family, who are originally from Uttar Pradesh, had accused a resident of the Gulmohar Trends housing society of allegedly kidnapping her. The girl's mother, who was unwell had sent her to work at that woman's apartment the day she went missing.
 
 "I suspected a woman, who is a resident of the housing society. I used to work at her home last year," said the girl's mother as she accused her former employer of being involved in some illegal and unlawful activities. Claiming that she had told the police about her suspicions, the girl's mother said the police did not do anything to confirm her allegations about the woman.
 
 The girl's mother claimed that footage of a CCTV camera had indicated that her daughter was last seen near the woman's home in the society. The footage also shows two cars that approached the minor girl before she disappeared, she added. 
 
 A few minutes after the incident, the girl's mother alleged that her former employer was seen on the road.
 
  "It has been eight months now and I have not seen my daughter," she said, adding that she found the woman's role suspicious. "When I had worked at her home, she always used to ask me about my daughter."
 
 The girl's family and relatives again urged the Mohali police on Wednesday to add the suspect's name to the FIR. The police had registered a case on August 10 under Sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 366-A (procuration of minor) against an unknown person in Zirakpur police station. No person was named in the FIR.
 
 "We will file another complaint with the Mohali SSP and we will also approach the   for Women. Last year, we had gone to the Mohali SSP's office for filing a complaint, but the officials there refused to accept it," one of the girl's relatives said on Wednesday.
 
 The Mohali police questioned a person linked to this case after the protest on Wednesday, according to a source. When contacted, Zirakpur station house officer   said the police "had investigated all the suspects suggested by the complainants and also had checked all the suspicious areas, but nothing was found."
 
 
