MADURAI: Two visually challenged sisters hailing from Ragulapuram near Sanarpatti in Dindigul have passed the plus-two examinations with flying colours. Fighting all odds, both of them scored more than 1,050 marks. The siblings hailing from a poor family, studied in a school for the visually challenged in   in   district.

 The sight problem is congenital for L   and her sister L Pandiselvi, who is three years elder. They scored a total of 1,064 and 1,053 marks respectively. While the younger sister emerged as the school topper among the 23 students who took up the exam, the elder one secured the second place.   stunned many normal students by securing 199 marks in history.
 
 “Although we were determined to achieve high marks from the beginning, we found it hard spending much time for studies. We can read one-word answers with the partial eyesight, but not the paragraphs as it would be paining if we strain much,” said Pandikokila. “Actually we expected marks around 1,100, since we had put a lot of hard work. Our parents were satisfied and very happy when they got a call from the school,” said Pandiselvi.
 
 The subject wise scores of the two are as follows. Pandikokila: Tamil-162, English - 176, geography - 186, communicative English - 170, history – 192 and economics- 178. Pandiselvi: Tamil -182, English - 168, geography -169, history-199, economics - 163 and political science -172.
 
 The poor family background has not affected the students from performing well in their studies. Their father S Lakkaian is a daily wage labourer. “We are four children and the rest two – a younger brother and a younger sister are normal kids. We are continuing our education with the help of our relatives, as our parents are not in a position to fully support us,” Pandiselvi said.
 
 Although many visually challenged students have passed with good marks, they have very limited options to choose from the higher studies. While Pandikokila is planning to do BA English, her sister is interested in pursuing history.
 
 The Indian Association for the Blind, the school where the sisters studied, missed cent percent pass this year, a fete the school often managed to achieve. Two more students S   and N Vignesh have secured 1,038 and 1,008 marks respectively.
 
 
