Chennai: Minerva Punjab’s successful run to   title has been historic and   was at the centre of it all. The Bhutanese sniper led the team’s attack with fierce aggression and his seven goals are a testament to his scoring abilities. With six assists, he has also proved that he possesses a hawk’s eyes to find the ideal man in front of the goal. His blistering pace and dribbling skills also made him the most potent force in I-League this season.

 
 
 “I knew I had the potential in me to make it big and I was hungry for success. I wanted to work hard to achieve it. Fortunately, my philosophy matched with that of my teammates, coach and owner. So from the first day, we started working as a team. There were no stars in our side and every player was on the same page. It helped in having the right spirit in our dressing room. I am happy with the way it all panned out for me. But my journey has just started. I am still trying to polish my finishing skills and improve my free-kicks,” Chencho told TOI before leaving for Bhutan on Sunday.
 
 Chencho, who is nicknamed Cristiano Ronaldo back home, definitely knew his potential and was hungry for success. But it was perhaps a snub from Kolkata giants   and   prior to the season which possibly fuelled the fire within the 21-year-old striker in the colours of Minerva.
 
 Before he joined Minerva, Chencho’s agent was in talks with East Bengal and Mohun Bagan to see if the striker would fit their bill. However, much to his disappointment, Chencho wasn’t even called for trials as the clubs underestimated his quality since he hailed from Bhutan, whose   world ranking is 188.
 
 Minerva, a relatively young club with a history of 12 years and featuring only in its second I-League, had a shoestring budget to work with and an underdog tag heading into the league. The eventual champions sought the services of another underdog in Chencho.
 
 Chencho said that he wanted to prove a point to both EB and Bagan. “The underdogs tag helped initially, both as a player and team. No one talked about us and there was no pressure on me. So we could stun big teams in away matches. It felt great when we defeated Bagan at their home. So you could say that this season was all about proving that I belong at this level. But I expect more tough competition next season. So I am ready to work harder because I might have to prove that this season’s success wasn’t a fluke,” Chencho, a Ronaldo fan, said.
 
 The Bhutanese skipper, though, doesn’t have any hard feelings towards EB and Bagan. In fact, he is willing to don their colours if they offer him a decent deal even as he hears that a few ISL clubs might be interested in him. “I am keeping my options open. I am ready to play for EB and Bagan. But then, I will be setting the terms and conditions now. I know that some ISL clubs are interested but no one contacted me officially yet. I would love to play in ISL because they have a professional approach and provide good facilities," says Chencho.
 
 
