NAGPUR: Even though it is yet to come up with a detailed plan for implementing the online admissions for PG courses,   (NU) has warned colleges that any student admitted outside the process would be their sole responsibility.

 Affiliated colleges have cried foul, saying they are at a loss because NU is still working on the CAP model, about which they only came to know through media reports. Colleges feel the delayed start for online admissions would result in many seats going vacant since students may opt for other places.
 
 Top NU officials recently made their plans public by disclosing that the university had decided to start the online Centralized Admission Process (CAP) for all postgraduate courses offered at its 38 departments, conducted colleges, and 117 affiliated colleges, from June. The disclosure was made over a week ago but so far no official communication has been sent in this regard.
 
 Some colleges told TOI they were surprised when they read in the newspapers about NU’s plans. “So far, no notification has been issued about the CAP process. We have only received a letter from the   section that warns against starting PG admissions without NU permission,” they said.
 
 Heads of some colleges said they apprehend losing students if the schedule is not announced early.
 
 “Look at other online admissions regulated by different government agencies, like the state CET cell. Their schedule is declared well in advance, which gives sufficient time to all stakeholders. Now, the new term is going to start from June 15 and there is no sign of the online CAP schedule, not even the notification,” they said. 
 
 The colleges are also wary that NU has not deployed any experienced agency but a new comer, as far as online admissions are concerned. “Promarc has already messed up students data in the exam work, which has been brushed under the carpet time and again. In exam work, there is scope, but if there are wrong entries in the admission forms then it will create major problems for students, and colleges, and the university will wash its hands off like it has been doing in case of hall tickets and enrolment mistakes,” they said.
 
 NU would be starting a separate portal for these admissions and students’ facilitation centres would be opened up at several colleges, including the   campus. The students will have to create a login ID and password, which can be done at these centres. NU would also be issuing a brochure carrying all details CAP process, intake capacity and course fee.
 
 
