Last month, an Indian delegation, led by  , went to  , the 68th annual Berlin International Film Festival. Now, the delegation has set the agenda for India at this year’s   Film Festival. I&B officials say that the ministry will be making some major announcements at this year’s Cannes film festival. The delegation, which comprised   member  ,  , Ashok Kumar R Parmar, Shaji Karun, Jahnu Barua and Amita Sarkar, invited international film festival organisers to attend this year’s IFFI, and also promoted India as a shooting destination for international filmmakers.

  
  
 
 
 Vani, who was a member of the panel discussions in Berlin, tells us that the delegation has explored multiple collaboration opportunities at Berlinale. "Individually, we have been going to these film festivals as directors or producers, but never as a collaborative entity. This time, when people like Karan Johar and Bhumi Pednekar, and I&B officials went together as a delegation to Berlinale, we realised our true potential, and what we can achieve together as a country,” she says, adding, “What we have achieved at Berlinale will now help us in better representation at Cannes. Also, this year Cannes will be a very important film fest for the Indian film industry as the I&B ministry will be making some major announcements there."
 
 
 
 Jerome Paillard, head of the Cannes Film Market, will attend the 50th edition of IFFI this year, and will organise a two-day co-production. Matthijs Wouter Knol, director of the European Film Market (EFM) at Berlinale, will also be attending IFFI.
 Vani says, "We are looking at mentoring programmes for young producers at IFFI this year, and the initial discussion with film festival organisers is now over. Also, a number of foreign filmmakers showed their interest to shoot in India. We promoted the ease of shooting films in India through our single-window clearance system, the Film Facilitation Office (FFO)."
 
 
 
 At Berlinale, several panel discussions were held at the Indian Embassy, EFM’s Buyers’ Lounge, and EFM Producers’ Club. Vani says, "During those interactions, people asked us a number of questions, including about the changing content of Indian films. We also discussed how films like Toilet – Ek Prem Katha and Pad Man were films that were inspired from social revolutions. Earlier, these topics were considered taboo. In fact, Karan Johar also pointed out that if he would have made Pad Man 10 years back, it wouldn’t have been accepted, but now, the content is changing, and so is the audience. Indian cinema has become more experimental."
 I&B officials say that Israel is also keen to have collaborations with India at Cannes and at IFFI. Vani says, "We are also working on co-production deals. India has film treaties with countries like China, France and New Zealand, and we will be taking it forward."
  
  
 
 
