PANCHKULA: A 23-year-old-woman allegedly strangulated her one-year-old daughter and then committed suicide in a heart-wrenching incident a day before the International Women’s Day in   village in   on Wednesday.

 Police sources and relatives said the woman was upset with her husband, who would often get drunk and allegedly beat her up. Pooja, who worked as a maid, allegedly hanged herself, in the one-room rented accommodation. Her daughter Ananya, whose birthday was celebrated on March 1, was found dead wrapped in a quilt.
 
  
  
 
 Pooja was found hanging in the room by her husband Shravan, 25, a plumber. Family members, including victim’s mother Urmila, grandmother   and her two younger sisters, live on the ground floor. All of them hail from Hardoi district in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Pooja at the time of the incident was alone in her room with Ananya on first floor, said a senior police official.
 
 Urmila said Shravan had gone out in the morning and when he returned around 10.30am, he found the room locked from inside. He broke the door latch and saw his wife hanging from the ceiling fan with her dupatta and his one-year old daughter lying unconscious covered in the quilt on his bed, said a police officer.
 
 Shravan raised the alarm with other family members and immediately removed dupatta from Pooja’s neck but till the time he took the action, Pooja was dead. A call was made to the police later and a team of cops and forensic team rushed to the spot.
 
 Cops said Pooja seemed to have strangulated her daughter’s neck with her hands. Post-mortem of the victims would be conducted on Thursday.
 
 Neighbours and other family members told TOI that Shravan used to consume alcohol and sometimes they used to fight with each other. “Pooja never shared any problem with us. Both got married three years ago and celebrated their daughter’s first birthday on March 1,” said a relative.
 
 However, the mother of the victim in her statement to the cops said the couple did not quarrel.
 
 A police official said, “The post-mortem of the two will be conducted on Thursday. We are investigating the suicide under Section 174 of the CRpC. No suicide note was found from the room.”
 
 
 
