CHENNAI: Main entrance locked, deserted courtrooms, files that got wet in the November rain still kept in open to get dry – this is the state of the newly inaugurated southern bench of National Green   office in Kalas Mahal on Walajah Road. Anyone who wants to enter the premises has to gain entry through the back door only.

 With the second judicial member M S   retiring on Tuesday, it has only added to the woes. The case list on the bench website says it all. The column indicating the names of the two   and the expert member was empty. Thus, the applicants and litigants have to wait till the appointment of new judicial members and the expert member to proceed with their case.
 
 Jawahar Shanmugam, an applicant, said that on Wednesday alone, 14 cases – seven each in court I and II – were listed. But they were not heard due to absence of both judicial and expert members.
 
 Similarly, on Thursday (January 4), a total of 16 cases – 10 in court I and six in another – have been listed. But, they will not be heard, he lamented. Absence of judicial and expert members will certainly put the public off, as they won’t be able to raise the environment-related issues, he said.
 
 When contacted, the sources in the tribunal’s search and appointment committee said they will soon announce the appointment of chairperson for the principal bench of the   at New Delhi. And he, in turn, will be made a member of the committee to appoint both judicial and expert members for the southern bench. Moreover, a case is still pending in the   with regard to appointment of judicial and expert members. Only after the case is heard and orders issued, the judicial or expert members will be appointed to the tribunal, they said.
 
 But squarely blaming the central government for the present state of the southern bench of NGT, K  , president of the Chennai NGT Bar Association, said, “Now, the tribunal been, literally, shut down, the very objective of the NGT Act, 2010, has been defeated. We are four years behind now. If at all new appointments are made, everything has to be started right from the scratch, as was done when the southern bench was established in 2013.
 
 “The Union ministry of environment and forest is delaying appointments only because it is upset by the intervention of the tribunal in the projects affecting environment.
 
 “Almost 90% of the projects launched by the central government are challenged by environmental activists and public in the tribunals. This often results in interim orders stalling such projects. As a consequence, the project cost escalates.
 
 “We believe that the central government purposely delays appointments to avoid intervention and judicial scrutiny of the projects sanctioned by it.”
 
 The present situation has compelled the public or the aggrieved person to approach the Madras high court as was the case before the establishment of the tribunal, says another advocate who primarily practises in the NGT.
 
 Pointing out that even the Supreme Court has refused to intervene or at least extend the tenure of the members, the advocate said, “In a similar circumstance, the apex court had extended the tenure of members appointed to the  , which handles only service-related matters of central government employees. But in the case of NGT, which deals primarily with matters of public interest and environment, the Supreme Court has refused such a relief.”
 
 
