Indore: In a bid to create new sources of revenue, the district administration has decided to levy tax on commercial property located in residential areas.

 “Under section 60 of MP Land Revenue Code 1959, we are conducting   of big commercial activities, being run in the residential areas. As per the rules, ‘lagaan’ tax will be levied on them,”   told TOI.
 
 He added that 67 major property in Juni Indore, Central Kotwali and Mhow have been identified on which   tax will be levied. Besides, around 70 establishments located in other part of the city are being inspected for the tax calculation.
 
 “Our target is to issue around 100 show-cause notices on Monday against such property, which are liable for paying lagaan tax under section 60 of MPLRC-1959. The property owners will be given chance to show permission as required for taking commercial use of the property based in residential areas. On failing to this, they will be asked to start paying lagaan tax to the administration,” Wankhede said.
 
 According to the sources, shopping malls, hospitals and commercial complexes, which are located in residential areas, are firstly targeted by the administration, while exemption has been given to comparatively small establishments and those which are not located on major roads.
 
 “It will be very clearly mentioned in the notice and the tax receipts that the administration will levy lagaan tax from persons/firms concerned as occupants of the property and the authority is not giving any right to them of being called as the owners,” the ADM said.
 
 Formula
 
 According to the ADM, lagaan tax will be calculated as 50 per cent of the diversion tax, which will be 2 per cent of the collector’s guideline rate of the land that is used for commercial purpose. For example- If the collector’s guideline of the locality is Rs 10000/square feet and size of the area being used for commercial activities is 100 square feet, then, as per the calculation, market value of the property will be Rs 10 lakh and 2 per cent of this will be calculated as the land diversion premium that will be Rs 20000 and 50 per cent of the premium amount i.e. Rs 10000 will be the annual lagaan tax.
 
 
