CHANDIGARH: Charging GST on the   of mineral water has cost city’s prominent eating joint — Tehal Singh’s   — dear. The district   disputes redressel forum has directed owners of Tehal Singh’s Dhaba to pay Rs 10,000 for causing mental harassment to a Zirakpur resident by charging GST on the MRP of bottled water, which is already inclusive of all taxes. In the same order, the forum also held that the restaurants and hotels can charge more than the MRP for mineral water.

 In his complaint, Amarjeet Singh said he had visited the dhaba in Sector 22 on November 8, 2017, for lunch and had ordered various items from the menu card, along with a bottle of mineral water. It was alleged that besides charging him Rs 22 for a mineral water bottle, the MRP of which was Rs 19, they had charged GST on the said MRP. The complainant protested for charging an extra amount. However, the dhaba managers did not respond to his grievance.
 
 The notice of the complaint was sent to the dhaba owners, seeking their version on the case. However, nobody appeared on their behalf despite service, therefore, the case proceeded ex-parte.
 
 The forum observed that the non-appearance of the dhaba owners shows that they have nothing to say in their defense against the allegations raised by the complainant. Therefore, the assertions of the complainant have gone unrebutted and uncontroverted.
 
 The forum after hearing the complainant held that they do not find sufficient force in his contention that the dhaba cannot charge more than MRP as the Delhi High Court relying upon the decision of   had held on March 5, 2007, “that charging prices for mineral water in excess of MRP printed on the packaging during the service of customers in hotels and restaurants does not violate any of the provisions.”
 
 On charging GST on MRP, the forum stated that the perusal of the cash memo placed on record shows that the dhaba had charged18% GST on a bottle of mineral water, over and above the MRP printed thereupon. It was stated that the rates of GST on the supply of goods are governed by the GST tariff. However, this does not mean that a dhaba could charge 18% GST for a bottle of mineral water with MRP of Rs 19, which was inclusive of all taxes.
 
 “Importantly, when MRP is inclusive of all taxes, then GST/other taxes cannot be charged separately. Therefore, the act of the dhaba in charging GST on MRP which is inclusive of all taxes clearly proves deficiency in service on its part, which certainly caused immense mental and physical harassment to the complainant,” the forum stated.
 
 The dhaba owners were then directed to pay Rs 5,000 to Singh for mental harassment and Rs 5,000 as the cost of litigation. 
 
 
