LUCKNOW: With new liquor policy severely hitting the supply of imported liquor brands like Johnnie Walker, Absolut Vodka and  , the excise department has relaxed the rules it introduced in the revised policy that was introduced in January this year.

 Excise commissioner   said having observed the difficulties pointed out by liquor manufacturers and traders in subscribing to the new policy, some relaxations have been offered for now.
 
 “Some teething troubles are being experienced in supply of imported brands. For now, some relaxations have been offered to liquor manufacturers and distributors. We have created a robust policy and changes cannot be expected overnight,” said Sahu. He assured that imported brands shall be back in the market within a week.
 
 While affordable liquor brands such as Royal Challenge and   are back on the shelves, the new liqour policy has severely hit the supply of imported liquor brands like Johnnie Walker, Absolut Vodka and Jack Daniels.
 
 According to market players, the sale of overseas liquor brands contributes about 15% of their total revenue.  , president of the union formed by Lucknowbased liquor traders, said, “There is acute shortage of foreign liquor brands since importers are finding it difficult to switch to new rules. Business is down by 50% from last year due to acute shortage.”
 
 The supply of overseas liquor has been totally disrupted and imported rum, vodka, brandy, cognac and gin are yet to reach the shelves. At present, only a few brands of whisky and beer are available.
 
 Under the revised liquor policy, the government had made hi-tech measures, like embossing of ‘For sale in UP’ logo on bottles and printing barcodes on bottle labels compulsory to track and trace each bottle. The changes were introduced to curb the massive bungling involved in the sale of imported brands since only a label strip of ‘For sale in UP’ was being pasted on bottles.
 
 To supply popular liquor brands manufactured overseas to retail licenced vendors, aperson needs to have FL-2D licence from the excise department. At the same time, the licence holder needs to comply with the new guidelines.
 
 Besides the above two hurdles, foreign liquor importers have also been asked to maintain management information system along with scanners in storage facilities.
 
