CHENNAI: Legality of a December 8, 2017 government order (GO) banning import of river sand from other countries by private people, has been challenged in the Madras high court. 

 A   filed by L Adhimoolam referred to the November 29 order of the high court banning sand mining in Tamil Nadu rivers and closure of all sand quarries within a time frame and said the order was passed considering indiscriminate mining, depletion of natural resources and rights of the importers in importing sand. When the PIL came up before the first bench comprising Chief Justice   and Justice   for hearing on Friday, senior counsel   argued that the impugned government order mandated that importing, storing and selling of sand could be done only by the state government. 
 
 He said only the Centre has jurisdiction over sand brought from outside and added that the state government was trying to usurp the legislative field of the central government through the impugned GO. 
 
 The Centre has an import policy on sand which is updated from time to time, Wilson said, adding that the policy did not prohibit sale or consumption of imported sand. Hearing was then adjourned to February 12. In his PIL, Adhimoolam stated that the government had ignored the fact that free import, transportation, storage, for personal use or for sale would solve one of the gravest problems faced by general public as well as the construction and infrastructure industry. He further said there could be no restriction for any other construction material to be imported, transported, stored to be used for own purposes or to be sold to public. Then December 8, 2017 GO states that the sale of ordinary sand imported from other countries or brought from other states or union territories for construction purposes shall be done only by the public works department (PWD) of Tamil Nadu government. Assailing it, the PIL said the government failed to understand that the restrictions imposed would result in a monopoly, hoarding, blackmarketing, and wanted the court to quash the GO, besides staying its operation as an interim measure.
 
 
