PUNE: Former chief of the   ( ) AS Dulat on Sunday said that a peaceful resolution regarding Kashmir can be found through comprehensive and meaningful dialogue.

 He was delivering a talk on “Pakistan and Kashmir” at an event held by Kakasaheb Gadgil Pratishthan at the Pune Union Working Journalist (PUWJ) hall here.
 
 The former intelligence chief stated, “A few days ago, the Pakistan army chief (General  ) talked about holding a dialogue with India. We also need to think about it now. Till what occasion will we wait for it? Do we need to wait till the next general elections?” 
 
 Chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, who is leading a coalition government with  , has also urged the government to initiate an active dialogue with Pakistan.
 
 Dulat said the former Prime Minister   is still remembered by the people of Kashmir because he had given them hope. “The Vajpayee approach should have been continued by the government in Kashmir but sadly it didn’t happen. This was the mistake done by the current government earlier and it is still continuing to do so,” Dulat added.
 
 He said the current situation in Kashmir is precarious and it is getting worse over the period of time. In fact, the situation is on the verge of becoming what it was in 1987 but people of Kashmir will not accept it this time.
 
 “The current narrative in Kashmir revolves around violence, which is very sad. Militancy has increased in Kashmir. Extremism among youths is increasing, which is also a bad sign for the country,” Dulat said
 
 During the interaction, Dulat pointed out that some people were of the opinion that Kashmiriyat will be extinguished. “However, I am of the firm opinion that it will never go. Kashmir is part of India, an integral part of the country and it is not going anywhere. But we need to deal with Kashmir in a more civilized manner,” he stated further.
 
 Earlier, Dulat explained, the foundation of the democracy in Pakistan was shaking and presently the country is going through political turbulence. He ruled out the possibility of another military coup in Pakistan as the civil society and media would not accept it.
 
 
