NEW DELHI: The dust storm on Sunday evening not only caused disruption around   roads but also impacted flight operations in a major way. Over 70   were diverted from   airport and several departures were affected after runway operations had to be shut down due to “wind shear”.

 According to the Met department, this was the highest number of diversions in a single day in the past ten years, including fog-related diversions during winters.
 
 The Met department said pilots reported “wind shear” — a sudden change of wind velocity and/or direction — while attempting to land. Low-level turbulence, associated with thunderstorms, is hazardous for aircraft trying to take off or land. It can lead to issues like turbulence, sudden changes in altitude and speed.
 
 “Five to six aircrafts, which attempted to land, had to abort their landing or go around because of the wind shear at 2,000-4,000 feet. Pilots also experienced cross winds while landing at IGI. This peak weather activity, between 4.30pm to around 8pm, impacted both take-offs and landings severely. We have never reported such bad weather in any summer storm in the last eight to ten years,” said a Met official.
 
 A senior pilot said that planes facing strong wind shear during approach or landing should, among many things, opt for takeoff-go-around. Given the dangers of landing amid wind shear, airlines opt to reject landing in such situations and divert. Diversions were reported to Amritsar, Jaipur, Lucknow, Varanasi, Dehradun, Udaipur and Ahmedabad, sources said.
 
 According to the airport Met department, runway operations had to be shut down as wind speed ranged between 70-80km/hr. Even after runway operations resumed, delays continued as flights had to wait for their ‘slot’ to land or take-off.
 
 Airlines meanwhile took to Twitter to inform passengers of the flight delays and diversions.
 
 A number of passengers travelling to Delhi were, however, kept waiting at other airports for a few hours. “I was traveling from Mumbai to Delhi when the storm hit the city. The pilot, meanwhile, announced that due of the squall, they would have to make the landing at Ahmedabad airport,” said Ketki Lama.
 
 The last time IGI recorded a squall of similar intensity was on May 29, 2016 when 40 diversions were recorded.
 
 
