HYDERABAD:Union minister of state for human resources development Satyapal Singh has rubbed the scientific community the wrong way, inviting the wrath of researchers in Hyderabad with his remarks against Darwin’s theory of evolution. In fact, a senior scientist described the minister’s remarks as an “insult to Indian intellect and traditional dignity”.

 On Monday, the   reacted sharply to the minister’s remarks that there was a need to change curriculum in schools and colleges with regard to the theory of evolution propounded in 1859 by naturalist Charles  . Satyapal Singh, who rejected the theory of evolution, is of the view that since no one had seen monkeys evolving into a man, there is no basis for Darwin’s proposition.
 
 Telangana Academy of Sciences president Dr Ch Mohan Rao, who is also a JC Bose national fellow and former director of the  , said the scientific community is shocked by Singh’s statements. “The minister wonders why no one has seen and mentioned the monkey losing its tail and becoming a human. He should know that there was no human to observe and report that. Humans’ verbal communication, language, script, developed over a very long period time,” Rao said.
 
 Rao said scientists and majority of people all over the world believe “Nothing in Biology Makes Sense Except in the Light of Evolution”. There is absolutely no doubt about evolution. It is true that there are people in the world who believe in “creationism” and “flat earth”, everyone is entitled to their opinion.
 
 “But we need evidence to accept or reject an idea. Accumulated evidence, new discoveries all clearly support the evolutionary theory of Darwin. Indians are respected for their logic, mathematical and analytical abilities. Such statements by people in policy-making positions from our country are an insult to Indian intellect and traditional dignity,” he said. Rao said it is only appropriate if the minister clarifies that “it is only his personal opinion and not that of the   (HRD), which is responsible for our education system.”
 
 Several scientists in the city have also differed with Singh’s remarks on evolution and his emphasis on the need to change the syllabus. However, they have not come in open fearing career backlash as they are in government service.
 
 
