MUMBAI: In a deja vu of sorts,  's second episode of drug overdose in three years is once again embroiled in conflicting reports. 

 Days after a screening test carried out at the P D   in Mahim found significantly high levels of anti-depressant benzodiazepine in her urine samples, the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) at Kalina didn't find any trace. In fact, FSL, which uses techniques considered more confirmatory in nature, said they didn't find the presence of any other drug as well. In 2015, a huge controversy had erupted after a similar discrepancy had been recorded (see box). 
 
 Interestingly, the Hinduja findings correlate with the clinical symptoms she presented when rushed to the emergency ward of   last Friday from  , where she is awaiting trial in the   murder case. Mukerjea was brought in an unconscious condition with pupils not reacting to light. While her vitals were normal, she was in altered sensorium (altered level of consciousness) and moving her limbs only to painful stimuli such as pinching.
 
 "It was a classic case of overdose and we have treated it as such. She has responded to treatment and recovered," said JJ dean Dr S D Nanandkar. He declined to comment on the FSL findings, and said the preliminary tests are carried out to help treatment. The hospital is yet to receive the report for stomach wash samples.
 
 FSL officials have said the samples in the case reached them only on Monday, three days after the incident. "The time of sample collection plays a crucial role. If they are collected once a patient is neutralized, the chances are we will get negative results," A senior FSL expert said.
 
 JJ authorities have maintained that Mukerjea's samples were drawn and handed over to the prison officials soon after her admission on Friday.
 
 The expert said the samples handed over to them were checked multiple times using different methods. "It's difficult to say how a preliminary test came positive and the confirmatory ones were negative. In fact, it's often the other way around," the expert said.
 
 
