More than two-and-a-half days after superstar Sridevi’s body was found in a bathtub in her hotel room in Dubai, the UAE authorities closed the case and released the body to be taken back to India. The body, which was then embalmed, was flown in a private charter flight belonging to ADAG from Dubai airport at 7pm (IST) and landed in Mumbai at 9.30pm.  A posse of policemen escorted the ambulance carrying Sridevi’s mortal remains to the Kapoors’ Lokhandwala residence. Police had to resort to a lathi-charge to control the 2,000-odd-strong crowd gathered there. The actor’s body will be kept at Celebration Club in Andheri from 9.30am to 12.30pm on Wednesday so that fans and celebrities can pay their respects, said a statement issued by the Kapoor family. From Celebration Club, the funeral procession will leave for the Vile Parle Seva Samaj crematorium at 2pm and the last rites are expected to be performed around 3.30pm. On Monday, after the post-mortem report revealed the cause of the actor’s death to be “accidental drowning” and the case was transferred to the Dubai public prosecution, there was speculation that the authorities may not release the body on Tuesday either.  There were also reports that the authorities were planning to collect more blood samples and tissues for investigation. However, ruling out any foul play and the need for re-investigation, authorities speeded up the process and closed the case by afternoon. As part of their investigation, the Dubai police, before closing the case questioned Boney again. A team also visited Jumeirah Emirates Towers, the hotel where Sridevi was found dead on Saturday. The room where she was staying has been sealed since her death. According to a source, the team also collected CCTV footage from the hotel and scanned it to check how many times and when Sridevi went in and out. The hotel staff too was questioned. Consul general of India, Dubai​,​ Navdeep Singh Suri announced in the afternoon that the Dubai police had handed over to the consulate and Sridevi’s family members letters for the release of the mortal remains of ‘the Indian cinema icon Sridevi Boney Kapoor’ so that they could proceed with the embalming. The Dubai media officer too announced that the Dubai public prosecution had carried out all procedures followed in such cases. The embalming certificate of Sridevi’s body given to the family also mentioned that the death was due to “accidental drowning”. It mentioned that there was “no infection disease”, a requirement for the body to be shipped or sent by air. Interestingly, while the death certificate issued by the forensic department mentioned Sridevi’s age as 53 years, the embalming certificate mentioned it as 52. While the death certificate was issued by the UAE’s ministry of health and prevention, department of preventive medicine, the embalming certificate was issued by the Dubai health authority. A source said that an ambulance had been kept ready at the mortuary even before the letters for repatriation of the body were received. The 13-seat Embraer charter aircraft was kept ready in the cargo area of the Dubai airport for the last two days. Earlier in the day, Boney’s son from his first marriage, Arjun, reached Dubai to be with his father and oversee the return journey, said a spokesperson for Yash Raj Films. Back in Mumbai, expecting thousands of fans, the police fortified security arrangements at Green Acres Complex as well as at the Juhu house of Anil Kapoor, Boney’s brother, on Tuesdaynight. There has been a steady stream of visitors at Anil’s residence since Sunday morning. Traffic is expected to be cordoned off in some parts of the area on Wednesday and roadside stalls have been told to stay shut.