CHANDIGARH: The   verdict in the   water dispute case observing that rivers were national assets and no state could claim exclusive ownership of their waters, has strengthened Haryana’s hopes of getting its share of water from Punjab through the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal.

 According to experts, though the facts and circumstances of Cauvery and SYL canal disputes were entirely different, some of the observations made by the apex court in its 465-page judgement would certainly have persuasive value in Haryana’s favour.
 
 In its verdict, released on Friday, the SC had observed that the waters of an inter-state river passing through the corridors of the riparian states constitute national assets and couldn’t be said to be located in any one state. “Being in a state of flow, no state can claim exclusive ownership of such waters or assert a prescriptive right so as to deprive the other states of their equitable share,” SC had observed.
 
 “While Tamil Nadu was already supplying water to Karnataka, by virtue of the SC verdict, the share has been increased. In our case, the link canal is yet to be completed, but certainly the SC observations have strengthened our case,” Haryana advocate general (AG) B R Mahajan told TOI.
 
 Former bureaucrat and INLD secretary,   said it was for the first time water had been categorically declared as a national asset by the apex court and the verdict had positive implications on the state’s claim on SYL canal’s waters.
 
 However, senior advocate  , who served as AG of both Punjab and Haryana and has been associated with the SYL canal case, said the Cauvery water dispute was a pre-Partition era issue with different facts. He added that Friday’s order would not have any effect on the ongoing water dispute between Punjab and Haryana.
 
 On SC’s observations of terming river water as national asset, Harbhagwan said it was a universally accepted principle, but the court always decided a case as per facts and circumstances.
 
 SC has already decided the case in favour of Haryana, but it is pending before the apex court as far as the execution of its orders for the completion of the water channel in Punjab is concerned. The apex court has asked the Centre to find amicable ways to implement its verdict.
 
 
