NEW DELHI: Seeking to provide a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution to farmers to deal with the problem of   that results in raising   levels in the capital and neighbouring states every winter, the government on Wednesday approved a Rs 1,151 crore scheme to promote in-situ (in the farm itself) management of crop residue in  ,  , Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. 

 The fund, approved by the cabinet committee on economic affairs (CCEA), will be used to promote agricultural mechanisation for this purpose for the next two years (2018-20). Establishment of ‘Farm Machinery Banks’ for custom hiring of in-situ crop residue management machinery will be the key component of the scheme.
 
 The government, under this fully centrally-funded scheme, will assist individual farmers, cooperative societies, farmer producer organisations (FPOs), Self Help Groups (SHGs), private entrepreneurs and registered groups of women farmers.
 
 Out of Rs 1,151 crore central fund, Rs 591 crore will be spent in next fiscal while the remaining Rs 560 crore will be meant for assisting stakeholders in 2019-20. The fund will primarily be used to subsidise machinery required for in-situ management of the crop residue.
 
 “It will be the responsibility of the agriculture ministry to identify manufacturers and equipments for in-site management of crop. The costs of these equipments will also be decided by the ministry in consultation with manufacturers so that it can be made available to users at reasonable price”, said an official. 
 
 The decision on Wednesday was taken as per the government’s budget announcement on having a special scheme to support efforts of the governments of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to address air pollution. 
 
 The move is expected to go a long way in tackling the air pollution issue as stubble burning is identified as one of the key problem areas, specially during the post-harvest season of October-November when the prevailing meteorological condition aggravates the situation further in Delhi and the national capital region. 
 
 Under the scheme, financial assistance of 80% of the project cost to set up ‘Farm Machinery Banks’ for custom hiring will be provided to cooperative societies of the farmers, FPOs, SHGs, registered farmers societies/farmers group, private entrepreneurs and group of women farmers. 
 
 “If an individual farmer would like to buy such machinery\equipment, the government will provide financial assistance of 50% of the cost of machinery for crop residue management”, said the official.
 
 At the state level, department of agriculture of concerned state government will be the nodal implementing agency. It would be the responsibility of state governments to identify various beneficiaries and location-specific agricultural equipments, depending on the farming system. 
 
 
