MUMBAI:   will carry out special traffic and power block on main line (all 4 lines) between   and Dadar for launching of Foot Over Bridge girders at Parel and Currey Road on Sunday.

 The CR block will be on Up fast line from 8.30am to 4.30pm (8 hours) and on Dn fast & Up and Dn slow lines from 9.30am to 3.30pm. The suburban services on fast and slow corridor will remain suspended between   and Dadar during the block period.
 
 The Up Suburban services to CSMT will be terminated at Dadar/Kurla and will run ex-Dadar/Kurla in Down direction during the block period. 
 
 The services terminating /originating at Dadar, Kurla and Thane will run as per timetable.
 
 6 long distance trains on Central Railway will be cancelled, 8 rescheduled and four regulated today due to the megablock.
 
 
 
 
 A major block will be taken from 11.20am to 2.50pm on Up line and from 11.20am to 1.50pm on Down line between Vaitarna – Safale stations on for launching of girder on bridge. 
 
 Some of the Dahanu, Valsad and Virar trains and also few long distance trains will be affected due to the block.
 
 To carry out maintenance work of track, signal and overhead equipment, a jumbo block will be taken on Up and Down fast lines between Goregaon and Andheri from 10am to 4pm and four hours block from 10am to 2pm on 5th line between Goregaon and Andheri stations.
 
 During the block period, all fast line trains will run on slow lines between Andheri and Goregaon. Due to this, some Up and Dn locals trains will remain canelled, an official added.
 
 
 
 
 There will be no megablock on Harbour line and this will bring relief to thousands of commuters who use the suburban train service on Sunday.
 
 There is a rail block of 8 hours between CSMT and Dadar in the Main line for launch of FOB girders at Parel and Currey Road. 
 
 “Main line passengers are permitted to travel via Harbour line between Kurla and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus from 9 am to 4 pm,” an official said.
 
 “Passengers should bear with us as the work on FOB will benefit scores of commuters in the long run,” the oficial added. Trains will run as per schedule on both Harbour and the trans-Harbour route.
 
