JOHANNESBURG: After grinding it out at the Wanderers for the better part of third day's play, taking body blows from the South African pacers, watching their tail-enders get exposed to bouncers from the likes of   and  , after ensuring that the hosts' plan to bounce India out of the game backfired on them, India are now left at the mercy of the two on-field umpires Ian Gould and Aleem Dar, and match referee Andy Pycroft, to see if the third Test match here can continue on Day Four.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 There is little   & Co. can do but arrive at the Wanderers on Saturday morning with a sense of disappointment. Labelled 'flat-track bullies' at every given moment of time, this Indian team paid South Africa back in their own coin when they not only managed to put runs on the board on a wicket prepared by South Africa to "suit" their home conditions but also turned out to be far pacier and a more intimidating bowling unit than their hosts.
 
 
 
 Dean Elgar got hit thrice by the Indian bowlers. It eventually forced the field umpires to speak with the match referee who called off play close to half-an-hour before the scheduled time for stumps on Day Three.
 
 At one time, the stump mic clearly picked an Indian voice on the field that went something like "bat pe laga" (it hit the bat) when Elgar took his gloves off to tell that it was his fingers that had taken the hit.
 
 "Naatak" (drama) was the word being whispered on the field as South African batsmen did not blink a minute before walking away at the call of the umpires.
 
 It was on this wicket that India had restricted South Africa to 194 runs after putting 187 runs on the board on Day One. On Day Two, the local media in Johannesburg heaped praise on   for scoring a 50 after taking hits on the body, one particularly on the rib-cage coming off  's over.
 
 It was the same day when   faced the trial by fire too. Looking to give it back to India, the South African fivebowler pace attack came hard at the opener in the last session on Day Two and to every other Indian batsman on Day Three. Not just Virat Kohli and  , the SA attack did not mind dishing out lethal bouncers from the golf course end - where it was easier to hit the crack on the pitch - to tailenders Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Mohammed Shami, Ishant and Jasprit Bumrah.
 
 India, looking to reach anywhere in excess of 150, eventually got to 247 all out, riding on exceptionally fluent knocks from Kohli and Ajinkya Rahane, a patient and a crucial 25 off 127 balls from Vijay and a priceless 33 off 76 balls from Bhuvneshwar Kumar.
 
 In their second innings, before play would be called off, South Africa had faced 8.3 overs to reach 17 for the loss of opener Aiden Markram's wicket.
 
 How badly South Africa bowled on a badly prepared wicket came to fore through the scorecard that read 27 extras from the bowling side before India had reached 200 runs.
 
 To India's credit, they raised their game to a different level with Parthiv Patel too - criticised in Centurion for his wicket-keeping - kept flying behind the wicket to pouch the shorter ones. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Changing the pitch
 
 The pitch shall not be changed during the match unless the umpires decide that it is dangerous or unreasonable for play to continue on it and then only with the consent of both captains.
 
 
 If the on-field umpires decide that it is dangerous or unreasonable for play to continue on the match pitch, they shall stop play and immediately advise the ICC Match Referee.
 
 
 The on-field umpires and the ICC Match Referee shall then consult with both captains.
 
 
 If the captains agree to continue, play shall resume.
 
 
  If the decision is not to resume play, the on-field umpires together with the ICC Match Referee shall consider whether the existing pitch can be repaired and the match resumed from the point it was stopped. In considering whether to authorise such repairs, the ICC Match Referee must consider whether this would place either side at an unfair advantage, given the play that had already taken place on the dangerous pitch.
 
 
 If the decision is that the existing pitch cannot be repaired, then the match is to be abandoned as a draw.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Either very little carry and/or bounce and/or more than occasional seam movement, or occasional variable (but not excessive or dangerous) bounce and/or occasional variable carry.
 
 
 One that does not allow an even contest between bat and ball, either by favouring the batters too much, and not giving the bowlers (seam and spin) from either team sufficient opportunity to take wickets, or by favouring the bowlers too much (seam or spin), and not giving the batters from either team the opportunity to make runs.
 
 
 If it is dangerous - a call that the match referee has to take after speaking to both captains.
 
 
