PUNE: Even as the state government is working towards making the streets “beggar-free,” the dwindling number of inmates in the government-run rehabilitation and resettlement   — where the beggars are imparted valuable skills so that they do not have to return to begging — is a cause for serious concern.

 The beggars’ home-cum-receiving centre at Vishrantwadi, in fact, has witnessed a declining trend for the past four years. Subhangi  , the superintendent of the beggars’ home, said, “The Pune facility is both a receiving centre as well as a home. The facility can house 100 men and 15 women.” As of today, the number of inmates at the   facility is less than 100.
 
 However, the decline is not indicative of a reduction in the number of beggars, who can still be spotted at bus stops, major traffic junctions, railway stations etc.
 
 The authorities have attributed the decline to various factors, including the general reluctance among most beggars to “work and earn”. Other contributing factors are the lack of awareness among the police about begging, which is a social crime, and the ability of many beggars to set themselves free by securing bails. Most beggars are able to afford bail-bonds or cash sureties when they are produced in front of the court.
  
  
 
 “Many police officers do not know the procedure to catch the beggars and send them to the receiving centres. Begging is a social crime. If required, officers from the home or the receiving centre can go along with the policemen to conduct the raids,” Zodage said.
 
 Beggar receiving centres across the state are supposed to receive beggars from the police and send them to 14 different beggars’ homes. Once the police pick up the beggars from the streets and produce them in front of the courts, the courts can send them to the “homes” for rehabilitation for the period of one year.
 
 “We teach them tailoring, zadu/kharata making, gardening and horticulture. After leaving the home, they are expected to continue working utilising the skills they have learnt here. They are not supposed to return to begging” Zodage said.
 
 However, Zodage said, many beggars are able to afford bail money when they are produced before the court. Some are able to pay as much as Rs 5,000 on the spot to secure a bail. The court releases them, and the beggars are then free to return to the streets.
 
 In January, the state government started a two-month programme to make Maharashtra a beggar-free state. “The programme has now been extended till June 2018,” she said.
 
 
