NEW DELHI: The Commonwealth Games (CWG) has always been a happy hunting ground for Indian wrestlers. India is ranked second behind Canada in the wrestling’s all-time medal count at the  , having cornered an astonishing 90 medals, including 38 gold. However, things there may not be that rosy this time around at Gold Coast CWG.

 
 
 
 In a setback of sorts, the Indian wrestlers have been denied an opportunity to fly down to Australia early for acclimatisation and training. The   ( ) has decided that the wrestlers will arrive at the Athletes’ Village on April 10, barely two days prior to the start of the wrestling competitions on April 12.
 
 
 
 Some participating men and women wrestlers wanted to reach Australia well in advance to prepare for the Games, since acclimatisation forms an important part of any athlete’s event strategy. But WFI has decided against it, arguing that training in India would serve the same purpose.
 
 The WFI claimed that it tried to arrange a training stint in countries like Japan, Bulgaria and Kazakhstan, but their respective wrestling federations either turned down the proposal or didn’t bother to answer back.
 
 Double Olympics medallist   has arranged for a training stint in Georgia, paying from his own pocket since he is neither the part of the TOP scheme nor entitled for Rs 50,000 monthly allowance. He will leave for Georgia with his personal coaching staff soon.
 
 The CWG-bound wrestlers’ contention is that if Indians in other disciplines can go to Gold Coast early – in some cases two weeks in advance – then why not they? Several members of the athletics contingent have already left for Australia. A 12-member boxing team is already training at the Australian Sports Institute in Canberra, while shooters and shuttlers will be leaving for Gold Coast this week.
 
 “If other federations are spending from their pockets and making arrangements for their athletes to go to Australia early, why can’t the WFI extend the same courtesy to its wrestlers? Once the Athletes’ Village is thrown open next week, the Games’ organising committee (OC) will take care of the participants,” said a wrestler.
 
 “It helps to prepare both physically and mentally if you reach early for the tournament. The wrestlers earlier travelled to places like Georgia or Colorado Springs in the US before a multisport event. This time we will train at home and leave for the Games at the last minute,” another wrestler added.
 
 When TOI contacted a WFI official, he said the federation tried making arrangements for training in different countries, but it did not work out. 
 
 “The tickets have been booked for April 9 (arrival in Gold Coast on April 10) and the federation isn’t too eager to send wrestlers earlier than that. A key issue is that no Indian chef will accompany the wrestlers. We approached the CWG organisers to allow our chef to stay in the athletes’ village and provide him accreditation. But the organisers turned down our request. Most of our wrestlers are vegetarian and they always complain about the quality of food in foreign locations,” the official said.
 
