VISAKHAPATNAM: The Millennium Tower-A, which will house IT companies, will be ready for operations by this summer end. The eight storey   was supposed to be completed by September last year, but finally would be in this summer. 

 On the other hand, the officials from the AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) is busy estimating the requisite funds to build the Tower-B. Tower A and B are twin towers and popularly called as Millennium Towers.
 
 “The tenders will be called for the Tower-B any time by May. The Tower A will be ready for operational by this summer end,” a senior APIIC official told TOI. The initial estimations for Tower-B project would be around Rs 45 crores. Chief minister N   particularly took attention on the progress of the construction of the towers during an internal meeting with the IT higher officials in the presence of IT minister Nara Lokesh.
 
 The minister is believed to have instructed the IT department and AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) to complete Tower-A in next two months and keep it ready to handover the space to the IT firms. “Yes, the Millennium Tower A and B progress issue was brought to discussion by CM with us”, admitted a top rank official to TOI. Once the Tower-A is ready, it would first be given to Conduent, the officer added. The iconic Millennium Towers will be the new address for IT units in  . “We will keep the Tower A ready by next two to three months,” JA Choudary, chief advisor, IT, said.
 
  “The Millennium Tower is focal point for IT and Fintech in Vizag,”   added.Chowdary said that the government has set a target of generating one lakh jobs from the ITsector. It would be possible only with creating ecosystem like Millennium Tower. Construction of a three cellar-parking extending 1.5 lakh square feet is still going on. The twin towers are being built with green technologies. The building is designed to resist wind velocity of over 200 kmph which had once hit the city during cyclone Hudhud. The present construction cost of the towers is Rs 90 crore. APIIC has entrusted the task of construction of Tower-A to KPC Projects. 
 
  AP Electronics and IT Agency (APEITA), an autonomous society formed by the state government to attract investments in IT and electronics, will allot the plug and play facilities to startups, MSME investors and others mainly working in IT and financial technology. The society will take the building space for the companies.
 
 
