CHENNAI: With the  , after announcing   assembly poll schedule, stating on Tuesday that   is free to constitute   panel to resolve inter-state water dispute and with the Supreme Court deadline inching closer, all eyes are on the   government at the Centre. If the Centre fails to do so, the   government, which has been facing the wrath of opposition, has decided to move a contempt petition on March 31, a day after the deadline. 

 Amid reports of Centre’s reluctance to constitute the mechanism to regulate water release in Karnataka reservoirs citing impending assembly polls, the Election Commission on Tuesday categorically said it would not stand in the way of court directive. On the popular perception of violation of model code of conduct if the Centre sets up Cauvery Management Board when the date of   for Karnataka are revealed, chief election commissioner Om Prakash Rawat said, “Whatever is the direction or the order of the honourable court and compliance thereof, commission and model code of conduct doesn't come in the way.” Now the Centre is left with three days to meet the six-week deadline of SC’s February 16 verdict.
 
 A high-level team of officials led by CM secretary-I M Saikumar on Tuesday held a session with   luminaries in New Delhi to decide future course of action. TN PWD   S K Prabhakar and advocate Shekhar Naphde also took part in the meet. “The legal opinion is to file a contempt plea against the Centre. The government will be briefed tomorrow and the petition will be filed on Saturday,” said an official source. The discussion veered around moving court to seek directions to the Centre to constitute Cauvery Management Board or file contempt. However, the collective opinion was to go for contempt with a request seeking direction to Centre for immediate formation of the implementing agency to share water among the basin states.
 
 A suggestion to “wait for a while” was turned down during the meet, given that code of conduct did not bar the compliance of the court directive. “There are reports of Centre filing a clarification petition and seek further time to implement court order. But seeking time itself is contempt especially when the process like calling for nominations from the basin states for members of the panel and setting up office for the panel itself has not been done by the ministry yet,” another official said. In its Cauvery verdict, the court ordered the Centre to frame a scheme within six weeks under Inter-State Water Disputes Act. It made clear that no extension shall be granted for framing of scheme on any ground. While ruling AIADMK maintained that it would continue to exert pressure on the Centre in Parliament, PMK leader S Ramadoss said that people of Tamil Nadu should hoist black flags atop their houses from March 30 to protest the Centre’s indifference.
 
 
