 UDAIPUR: The local legal community went into a tizzy after notices appeared at several places on the court premises on Saturday accusing the district and sessions judge of accepting money from parties to decide cases in their favour. 

 Though the judicial administration has not taken cognizance of the matter, the   condemned the incident and claimed that it was a serious insult and attack on judiciary.
 
 The association has called for a meeting on Monday. A fact-finding committee will be constituted to find out who committed the act.
 
 A delegation also met the judge to discuss the matter. However, no official statement was released till late evening.
 
 The incident came to light when some of the advocates, who arrived early in the morning, spotted the notices pasted on walls and pillars of the court. The matter was immediately reported to office-bearers of the bar association and judicial administration.
 
 Though the staff pulled down the notices, many had clicked pictures which went viral on the social media. "We came to know about the incident from the social media. We have neither been informed by the court administration nor received any complaint so far," said SHO Harendra Sauda, Bhupalpura police station.
 
 Interestingly, there are three gates to enter the court premises and there are CCTV cameras installed at major locations. So, any major incident happening within the premises cannot go unnoticed. According to lawyers, the miscreants may have arrived early in the morning to put up the notices.
 
 The notice carried details of five cases with case numbers wherein it was alleged that the judicial officer had received Rs 1.90 crore to decide in favour of the beneficiaries. It also mentioned names of two agents who acted as mediators between the judicial officer and beneficiaries.
 
 Employing black humour, the notice asked the public to avail of the opportunity to receive favourable decisions. "It's a shameful act and we condemn such uncouth behaviour. A fact-finding committee will be formed to find the culprit. Appropriate action will be taken," said Ram Kripa Sharma, the president of bar association.
 
 
