The latest episode of   starts with   slapping Vicky.   tells Shaurya that Mehek, Nehal and Vicky kidnapped her. Shaurya asks   to leave his house as he can’t live with her anymore. Mehek tries to make Shaurya understand but the latter doesn't listen to her. He further tells her that he is ashamed that he got married to such a woman who is destroying his sister's life. Mehek packs her bags and remembers the happy moments that she had spent with Shaurya.

 In another scene, Shaurya reaches the cafe and meanwhile, even Vicky reaches. He tries to talk to Shaurya but the latter tells him that he is working and soon leaves the place. Mehek wakes up and sees herself tied up in a dance bar. She gets scared and sees dancers outside. Mehek notices Anjali who meets a woman and tells her that she has brought a girl who can dance well and will even cook great food. Anjali then tells the woman that she will take a high price for the girl.
 
 Anjali then meets Mehek and welcomes her to the new world. Anjali informs her that from today she has to dance a lot. Anjali tells Mehek that she finds girls who have no one to look after them and sells them here. Mehek tells her that Shaurya loves her a lot and she is trying to ruin her brother's life. Anjali gives Mehek some clothes and asks her to get ready as some guests are about to come. Mehek throws the clothes away.
 
 In another scene, Shaurya searches for Mehek and goes to the police station to file a complaint. Mehek talks to other girls and promises them that she would rescue all of them. Meanwhile, Mehek finds a phone. The other woman comes in and searches for her phone. She slaps Mehek for stealing her phone and tells her to not repeat her mistake. Nehal notices Anjali going somewhere and starts following her. Nehal drops a glass of water on Anjali and she goes to the washroom. Vicky steals her phone and tries to check it. On the other hand, the guy in the bar starts beating Mehek with rods and asks her to get ready. 
 
 Anjali fakes a call to Shaurya and tells him to save Mehek. Police and Shaurya reach the given location and do not find Mehek. Anjali reaches the dance bar and sees Mehek dressed like a bride. Mehek starts dancing and intentionally drops her ring in an earthen pot brought by Bajrani. While the earthen pot is being taken away, Shaurya spots the ring in it and wonders where is the person coming from? Mehek pours wine for the man and drops a lighted candle on the carpet which leads to fire. 
 
 
