PUNE: Developer D S Kulkarni and his wife,  , were arrested from a hotel in Delhi on Saturday, a day after the Bombay high court vacated their interim protection from arrest.

 APune police team brought them to the city by a flight and produced the duo before a special court in the evening. The court remanded the couple in police custody till February 23. They are facing charges of
 
 
 cheating more than 2,500 investors of Rs 230 crore.
 
 The trouble began for Kulkarni, popular as DSK, when the first FIR was lodged against him and his wife at the Shivajinagar police station in October last year. The couple had sought interim protection from the special court, seeking time to repay the investors. The court vacated the interim protection and their anticipatory bail application was rejected after he failed to honour his commitments.
 
 The   then filed an appeal in the Bombay high court and obtained interim protection again in November, which gave the builder time to submit a proposal explaining the steps he intended to take to repay the investors. But nothing materialized and the high court cancelled the interim protection.
 
 The couple then moved the SC against the high court order and sought time to repay the money. The matter again came up before the high court and he was given more time. But he failed to give a concrete repayment plan, prompting the high court to cancel their interim protection again.
 
 
 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (crime)  , holding the officiating charge of the economic offences wing (EOW), told  , “Four teams of the EOW under the Pune crime branch were formed and posted at strategic locations in different parts of Delhi after the Kulkarnis failed to get relief from the high court. One of the teams received reliable information that the couple had taken shelter in a hotel in upscale Vasant Kunj area of Delhi. We verified the information and took the assistance of the Delhi police to take them into custody. We have brought them to Pune to conduct investigations.”
 
 When asked if the Kulkarnis had plans to challenge the high court order in the   or if they wanted to escape from India, Dahane said, “We have impounded Kulkarni’s passport and he will be thoroughly questioned to find out why he went to Delhi.”
 
 The Kulkarni couple were taken to the   for medical examination minutes after they landed at the Pune airport. They were presented before the court at 7pm amid tight security. There was a fear that the investors might attack them, but nothing happened.
 
 The Kulkarni couple were made to sit in the box meant for accused in the court. They or their lawyer did not oppose the police custody remand.
 
 
