GURUGRAM: Office-goers and other daily commuters may have to start off early to be able to reach their destinations well in time on Thursday morning, when hundreds of BJP supporters on bikes pass through the city to participate in party chief Amit Shah’s public meeting in Jind.

 According to the police, around 300-400 bikers mainly from Faridabad will take to Golf Course Extension Road and Sohna Road, the two most crowded stretches in the city during peak hours, between 9am and 9.30am, which may cause massive snarls.
 
 The bikers will come through Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, take a left turn near Ghata mor and head towards Vatika Chowk along Golf Course Extension Road. At Vatika Chowk, the bikers will turn right and ride along Sohna Road to reach Subhash Chowk, where they will turn left towards Hero Honda Chowk.
 
  
 After crossing the NH-8 at Hero Honda Chowk, the bike rally will move towards Basai, via Hero Honda Road, crossing Pataudi Road. Finally, they will take the Basai Road and cross Dwarka Expressway, before heading for Jhajjar en route to Jind.
 
 The bikers are likely to take the same route back home to Faridabad in the evening after the public meeting gets over in Jind.
 
 A large number of BJP supporters from other neighbouring districts, including Palwal and Nuh, will go to Jind for the public meeting but police said rallies from those districts would be diverted from the southern peripheries of Gurgaon to minimise snarls in the city.
 
 These apart, hundreds of bikers from the four Assembly constituencies falling in Gurgaon district are also likely to go to Amit Shah’s meeting. But most of them are to assemble outside the main city area and thus unlikely to create much problem for normal commuters. Gurgaon police spokesperson Ravinder Kumar said an advisory had been issued to city residents and commuters, asking them to avoid the (above mentioned) roads in the morning and evening hours to avoid snarls.
 
 Moreover, to ensure smooth flow of traffic, a large contingent of police personnel will be on toes at all important crossings and possible choke-points along the route of the bike rally. “Around 150 policemen, along with two ACPs and nine traffic inspectors, will be on roads to manage the traffic. This additional deployment will stay from 5am to 10am and from 4pm to 9pm,” the police spokesperson said.
 
 Besides, one Hydra, six cranes and four ambulances will be deployed. “We are making all efforts to maintain law and order,” he said. The movement of heavy vehicles will also be restricted in the city during the rush hours in the morning and the evening.
 
 
