Imagine this — a pearly white  , with all the kamans leading to it also drenched in white; a white   fountain gushing frothy white water; all adjoining shops of Sharan Market and choodi bazaar, also in white! A la Greece’s famed Santorini, minus the azure waters, of course. Well, that’s the   tweeple are now dreaming of, and mooting for. All this, after a twitter user designed a 3D image of the ideal makeover the 400-year-old monument could get and sent it to  . In his tweet, Chandra Shekhar Marri, an IT professional based in San Franciso posted pictures of a proposed facelift for Charminar, which included a lick of white paint not just on the monument but also all adjacent areas, in order to have a uniform colour scheme. 
“The main idea behind this kind of a Charminar is that we follow a same colour pattern in the area. What I thought of was white and green; but we could also go with the creamy, earthy limestone colour that Charminar now has. This coupled with signages in an approved font and style would do a great deal of good in improving the Charminar experience,” said Chandra.
 The vision of Hyderabad’s much-loved monument in white was so captivating that even Minister KTR retweeted the same asking Principal Secretary of MAUD, Arvind Kumar to have a look at the design. Arvind in response to KTR tweet highlighted how Charminar could not possibly be repainted in another colour, as any restoration work was about retaining the monument as it is. but he added that something similar could be done with the signages and barricading. 
 While the proposal sent out on twitter was just a suggestions, the officials have taken note of the idea behind it. “Citizen inputs are always welcome as the monument is all of Hyderabad’s; we all have a stake in it. While it’s not feasible to take all suggestions into account, we are looking into the possibility of a uniform colour that goes with the architecture and increasing the space around the monument as much as possible,” said Mohammed Musharraf Ali Faruqui, Additional Commissioner IT, GHMC.
 The Charminar pedestrianisation project, which is almost nearing completion, has already fetched in a lot of space around the monument. The officials are also in touch with Government of France for seeing the feasibility of tram service and Government of Turkey on the know how for reviving mosques and heritage architecture.
 
 
