JALAJAN (KHANNA): Five persons, including four members of a family, were injured after a 30-year-old man went on a   spree in a suspected battle of supremacy at Jalajan village in Khanna on Sunday evening. Khanna police on Monday morning booked the accused, Daljeet Singh Jeeta of the same village, for attempt to murder.

 Jeeta targeted relatives of sarpanch Manjit Kaur, who had defeated former’s sister-in-law in the panchayat elections five years ago.
 
 In the firing, Manjit’s brother-in-law Jatinder Singh (54), who works in   (FCI) in Malerkotla, wife Swaranjeet Kaur (50), sons Amarinder Singh (27) and   (25). A passerby, Jagdeep Singh, who also belonged to the village, was also injured in the firing.
 
 The firing happened 50 metres away from Jatinder’s house.
 
 Superintendent of police (detective D) Jasvir Singh said Jeeta has been booked under Section 307 (attempt to murder) and various sections under Arms Act. He said the accused is on the run and raids are being conducted to nab him.
 
 The SP said it is yet to be ascertained whether the weapon which was used in the crime was legal or illegal. He said all the injured persons are out of danger.
 
 Recalling the horror, Narinder Kaur, only daughter of Jatinder Singh, said she had gone to Taura near Patiala to meet her aunt. In the evening, she got a call from her brother Gurwinder. While he was talking to her, the accused came near their residence and fired at him, injuring him. He also fired in the air.
 
 “After hearing the gunshots, my father rushed to the spot after hearing cries of my brother. As he reached the spot, the accused caught hold of him and shot point blank in his chest injuring him as well. But he was lucky that bullet didn’t pierce his heart. After my mother heard the cries of my father and brother, she rushed out of the house. The accused fired two bullets at her, hitting her on the right arm and right side of abdomen,” claimed Narinder.
 
 Bullet pellets also hit her brother Amarinder on his right hand. A passerby Jagdeep Singh who was returning home after an evening walk also suffered injuries after the pellets hit him. She added that the accused then ran away from the spot.
 
 Jasprathamjeet Singh, son of woman sarpanch and nephew of Jatinder Singh, said the accused fired six bullets in the air. He added that his parents had locked him inside a room as the accused went on a firing spree.
 
 “After the accused ran away, Amarinder called his friend who rushed the injured to a hospital in Khanna. Later, doctors referred them to a Ludhiana hospital,” said Jasprathamjeet.
 
 After the incident, the family informed the police after which cops led by SP (D) reached the spot and started investigations.
 
 Sarpanch Manjit Kaur suspected that the accused fired at her brother-in-law and his family as he harbored grudge against her after she defeated his sister-in-law Ramandeep Kaur in the sarpanch elections five years ago.
 
