KOLKATA: The   hasn’t yet been able to draw up a security plan for the Bengal panchayat polls, as the state government hasn’t given it a clear picture about the availability of forces from outside the state. The poll panel now has just three days to keep the May 4 deadline set by   for submitting a “concrete security plan”.

 The single-phase rural polls is scheduled for May 14, which is just two weeks away. Providing adequate security — at least one armed personnel for each of the 58,467 booths — has been a worry, as the state has just 58,000 men at hand, of whom just 46,000 are armed cops, the rest lathi-wielding.
 
  
 SEC sources hinted that state representatives present in the meeting with the election commissioner at his office on Monday could only report that three of the four states the government had written to for forces had responded “positively”, but were yet to confirm the number of forces they would send.
 
 From what state representatives (home secretary Atri Bhattacharya, director general of police Surajit Kar Purakayastha and ADG (law and order) Anuj Sharma) told commissioner Amarendra Singh in the meeting, it appears the commission can’t provide one armed personnel for each booth. Security during the rural polls is the prime concern of the opposition, which has already moved court seeking its intervention. The commissioner on Monday apprised the state representatives the concerns raised by the opposition representatives he met on Saturday.
 
 “Holding of elections can’t be based on assumptions and probability but on the concrete number of forces available with the state government,” said CPM leader Rabin Deb. West Bengal Congress president Adhir Chowdhury said the state government and its “stooge” poll panel were now into back-calculation. “They have fixed the number of uncontested seats ahead of the polls. Now they are back to their drawing boards to fix the number of forces when the process should have been the other way round,” Chowdhury said. PDS state secretary Samir Putatunda said: “It would have been easy for the state to write to the Centre instead of approaching four to five states for additional forces. We have made the Centre a party to our petition in court.”
 
 Since April 2, when candidates were asked to file nominations, the state has witnessed violence in the districts, already claiming six lives. Opposition parties fear the situation could get worse on poll day without security.
 
 CPM and PDS on Monday couldn’t move their petitions urging the high court to stall the election process without adequate forces because Justice Subrata Talukdar was absent. The division bench of Justice Biswanath Samadder and Justice Arindam Mukherjee took up two appeal petitions — one by Congress and the other by CPM — but adjourned the hearing as CPM lawyer Bikash Bhattacharyya and SEC lawyer Sakti Mukherjee couldn’t produce the vakalatnama (the client’s approval for taking the brief).
 
 
