BHOPAL: Mocking at the plight of drought-affected people of  ,   MP from   said no one should expect him to visit every household with a glass of water to quench the thirst of its residents.   was reacting to the acute water shortage faced by Jaisinagar town in Sagar district, where people have to walk 2 to 5 kilometres for fetching water. 

 Like many other parts of the district, people in Jaisinagar are in the midst of a severe water crisis. The long-pending construction work of an overhead tank is yet to be finished despite the MP's assurance last year that the water tank would be a reality in three months. "The MP had promised us an overhead tank in the winter", said Shyamnarayan, a villager. 
 
 There is no piped water distribution system in Jaisinagar. With the mercury crossing 40 degrees Celsius, the water crisis has only worsened, said villagers. On Friday, after a programme to distribute gas connections to villagers, the media raised the issue of the overhead water tank with Yadav. Taken by surprise, the defensive MP said that he would surely find out why there was delay in the construction work of the tank.
 
 When he was told that he had been a two-time MLA and now an MP from the region and yet the water crisis in Jaisinagar remains the same for the past 40 years, Yadav was visibly angry.
 
 "What do you want me to do? We will get the overhead tank constructed and make water available. But do not expect me to visit houses and distribute water", Yadav said.
 
 "When they (villagers) have already spent years without water, why can't they wait for some more time? The sky will not fall in 6 to8 months," Yadav said.
 
 The BJP MP also asked reporters to raise the issue with the local panchayat. "I have 800 panchayats with me and I cannot give attention to each one of them. Even my father would not be able to resolve the issue", an insensitive Yadav said.
 
 Sagar Lok Sabha seat consists of Kurwai, Naryoli, Sagar, Sironj, Surkhi, Shamshabad, Khurai and Bina assembly segments and all of them are facing water shortage. Jaisinagar is part of Sagar tehsil. Sagar, which lies in Bundelkhand region is one of the most drought-affected districts of the state. The adjoining districts of Chhatarpur, Damoh, Tikamgarh and Panna are also facing severe water crisis.
 
 
