PATNA: In a big blow to JD(U) ahead of the upcoming byelection for one parliamentary and two assembly seats in Bihar, its Jokihat MLA   resigned on Saturday and joined the RJD in the presence of its national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari. 

 Sarfaraz is likely to be the RJD candidate in the bypoll for Araria Lok Sabha seat, which fell vacant after the death of RJD MP and his father Mohammad Taslimuddin, who had won by more than two lakh votes. The BJP and the JD(U) had fought separately and finished almost neck and neck in the 2014 parliamentary election.
 
 Asked whether he has been promised the RJD ticket from Araria, Sarfaraz said, “The decision shall be taken by the party.”
 
 Sarfaraz was suspended from the JD(U) two years ago following complaints that he had misbehaved with a couple while travelling in a Delhi-bound train. 
 
 Soon after tendering his resignation as MLA, Sarfaraz met RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s wife and former chief minister   at her residence. Citing reasons behind leaving JD(U), Sarfaraz said, “It is ‘ghar wapsi’ for me. I had joined the JD(U) as it was then a part of the Grand Alliance which represented secular forces. But things have changed now. Ever since the party betrayed the secular forces, I have been under pressure from people of Seemanchal and my mother. There was growing public demand for me to join RJD after the death of Taslimuddin sahib.” 
 
 RJD vice-president Tiwari said the party was open to all those who were uncomfortable in NDA. He was referring to Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) leader and former CM   and RLSP chief and Union minister Upendra Kushwaha. Tiwari said other JD(U) members would also join RJD soon. “NDA had predicted the downfall of RJD, but things are unfolding the other way round.”
 
 Lalu’s son and leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also said people in JD(U) were more upset with RCP Singh than CM   because the former hardly gives time to them.
 
 “Nitish ji is also planning to move to the Centre and hand over the political command to BJP. JD(U) will have no stand in Bihar in such a scenario,” Tejashwi said.
 
 Senior JD(U) functionary and state energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav, however, said Sarfaraz’s resignation will have no impact on the party.
 
 
