KOCHI: If you are looking for a fully-airconditioned dormitory facility in the city, head straight to the   station. Come June 5, the dormitory with a locker facility, free Wi-Fi, 24 hours check-in and check-out and round-the-clock security surveillance will start functioning at the station. The facility is being planned as part of the Kochi Metro Rail Ltd’s (KMRL) initiative to lease out commercial spaces at the stations.

 “There will be 250 bunk beds. In each cabin we can provide accommodation for six people. The rates have been fixed as Rs 395 per day,” said  , reservation manager of the facility. Though the promoters have announced the project, they are yet to finalise a name for the dormitory. “In the coming days we will come out with more details,” he added.
 
 All the 16 stations from Aluva to Maharaja’s College Ground, have world-class commercial spaces that can be utilized. The KMRL has over 1.35 lakh sq ft within the metro stations, which they plan to lease out. Apart from this, they have an additional five acres outside the premises of the Metro stations. Commenting on the response to the initiative to provide commercial spaces on lease, KMRL managing director APM   said, “We received excellent response. Promoters of various retail outlets, banks, library service providers have all come forward to occupy spaces at Metro stations. Many people have shown interest in the commercial areas available at MG Road station,” he said.
 
 The KMRL hosted a property expo to promote the commercial properties available with them on May 8. “The show helped to push our efforts to attract business houses and traders to associate with the Metro,” he added. According to him no metro in world operates successfully from the revenue generated through ticket fares, and hence it is important for the agency to create realty assets, which can take them forward. The agency is open to the idea of having commercial and business institutions setting up direct connectivity to the Metro stations, similar to what has been initiated by Lulu Mall.
 
 
