NEW DELHI: A Delhi court   a man despite a pregnant   turning   claiming that she was   and had actually   herself with the   without knowledge of the  .

 Rejecting the claims, the court found it “inconceivable that a 14-year-old girl would lift semen and, for no reason, insert it in her vagina”. The accused is the survivor’s stepmother’s cousin. The survivor’s father had also tried to shield the accused claiming that no rape had been committed.
 
 Special judge Ruby Alka Gupta said, “The victim was sexually abused due to which she became pregnant. When the pregnancy was discovered and she revealed the truth, she was prevailed upon to hide such truth. She was pressured because the convict was a cousin of her stepmother.”
 
 The accused was awarded 10 years rigorous imprisonment and slapped with a fine of Rs 60,000 of which Rs 50,000 was directed to be given to the victim. After being urged by Bedashree Borah, the lawyer for Delhi Commission for Women, and considering the age of the victim, the court granted her Rs 7.5 lakh compensation.
 
 The father and daughter had gone to a doctor to terminate the pregnancy on July 13, 2013. However, the doctor took them to a police station as the patient was a minor. The victim had before police confirmed sexual assault by her uncle in March or April that year. Forensic tests established that the DNA of the fetus had come from the victim and the accused uncle.
 
 However, the girl in her statement claimed that her uncle would sleep next to her, but didn’t do anything objectionable. She said “she used to lift the white fluid coming out of his penis and put it deep inside her vagina by her own hand”.
 
 The accused argued that there had been no physical contact on the basis of which he could be indicted and punished. The court called it a “desperate attempt” to get himself exonerated from his actions.
 
 The court also relied on the victim’s birth certificate, which proved she was born in 1999, contrary to the father’s claim of 1995. “Despite being a minor, the victim’s father made an attempt to pass her off as a major. The only reason he would have done so is that he is trying to shield the accused. It is for the same reason that he attempted to conceal the fact that they had been produced before police by the doctor,” the court observed.
 
 “The family, which was supposed to stand by the victim, support and nurture her, besides see her through the ordeal with love and affection, abandoned her emotionally and mentally and made her take the blame for the actions of the convict. One cannot even imagine the anguish the child must have suffered, trapped in such a hostile atmosphere,” the court said.
 
 
