KOLKATA: A day after the city had its coldest day, the mercury climbed up marginally to 11.6°C on Saturday. Even as Kolkata wrapped itself in woollens and soaked in the winter chill, the Met office predicted that the cold spell will linger and the minimum temperature could plunge yet again.

 The temperature could come down to around 11°C on Sunday, when the northwesterly is expected to get stronger. Weathermen didn’t rule out the possibility of the mercury dipping below 11°C in next 48 hours. Four districts of the state – Murshidabad, West Burdwan, East Burdwan and Purulia – are already in the grip of a cold wave.
 
 “With no system in sight, there is absolutely nothing to come in the way of the northwesterly that has been carrying in chilly winds from the northern Himalayas. It will continue to flow unobstructed for the next 3-4 days and may bring the mercury down further. There is a possibility of the minimum temperature plunging below 11°C,” said GK Das, director,   ( ). On Friday, the minimum temperature in the city had plunged to 11.1°C, the lowest in five years.
 
 The city has rarely had a long chilly spell in recent years. But this one could last, said Das. “The prevailing conditions are just right for the chill to flow in. In previous years, the northwesterly would be interrupted by either a cyclonic circulation or a western disturbance. It would push the mercury up within a couple of days. At present, there is no such system and the chill will prevail. In fact, it could get cooler with the wind blowing in uninterrupted,” added Das.
 
 The winter chill was warmly greeted by Kolkatans who took to the streets in large numbers and swarmed the popular hang-out zones. Thousands descended on the Maidan, enjoying the mellow afternoon sun. The usual winter hotspots like the Alipore zoo, Nicco Park, Eco Park and the Science City remained crowded.
 
 The mercury continued to plunge across south Bengal with Asansol and Sriniketan recording 7°C. At Bankura, the minimum temperature touched 8°C. There was no immediate possibility of the temperatre shooting up, according to the RMC. “The cold wave will continue in south Bengal and the chill will persist. It has affected four districts so far and more could come under the cold wave spell,” said Das.
 
 
