KOLKATA: Luxury car buyers in Kolkata have taken a fancy to  , which come with retractable soft tops, can often seat only two adults but cost 30%-40% more than equivalent sedans.

 Porsche, for instance, clocked one convertible for every four cars sold in Kolkata last year, the one-is-to-four ratio being the highest convertible-to-car sales ratio in the country; Porsche’s 2017 national average was one convertible in every seven cars sold.
 
 The   dealership sells at least one unit of C cabriolet (the other name for convertibles) every month. “We can clock more as there is ample demand but we are constrained by supply,” Paras Somani, brand director of Lan-dmark Group, the Mercedes-Benz dealer in Kolkata, said.
 
  dealer Sandeep Bajaj says he actually has had to order for more A3 and A5 cabriolets following the surge in demand. “There was no demand for a cabriolet or even coupe-styling in Kolkata till a couple of years ago. That has changed dramatically,” Bajaj said. He is barred from revealing numbers by the German automaker but says they are “good”.
 
 “Kolkata is one of our fastest growing markets. That is not surprising, given that a large number of business families hail from the city, but the cus-tomers’ appetite for converti-bles has been a revelation,”   director Pavan Shetty told TOI.
 
 Others agree and it is not only because of the zooming sales figures. Car manufacturers and dealers say Kolkata’s hot and humid weather is not conducive for travel in open-top cars and that is another reason why the city’s growing demand for convertibles has surprised them.
 
 The high preference for stylish convertibles that otherwise seem impractical in Kolkata’s weather can be partially attributed to the customer profile that is younger than the rest of the country, say trade experts. The average age of   customers countrywide is 41 years and it is 38 in Kolkata; the average age of customers who purchase convertibles is 35 years.
 
 Ditto with Mercedes-Benz and Audi: both the German auto makers say cabriolets are rolling off their showrooms faster than anticipated. Again, the average age of cabriolet customers is 32 years, much younger than the avereage age of sedan and SUV customers at 37 years.
 
 Shetty feels the demand was not perceived earlier because convertibles were not available in the market. “Both Hollywood and Bollywood movies have fuelled the dream for such cars,” said Shetty.
 
 Also, car buyers in Kolkata have become less conservative and more experimental. A lot of sportscars are bought by second-generation entrepreneurs.
 
 As for the heat and dust, Somani says it does not really matter because nearly all the cars remain parked in the garage during the day. “These cars are never the first cars in the family. They are bought for special use for evening parties and functions or to simply go for a spin late at night. The heat ebbs at that hour and driving in Kolkata is generally a lot more pleasant then,” he explained.
 
 
