NEW DELHI: China's ruling Communist Party on Sunday set the stage for President   to stay in office indefinitely, with a proposal to remove a constitutional clause limiting presidential service to just two terms in office. But will the country's Parliament approve such a major change to the constitution? These 10 points will explain how the move may play out: 

 
 
  Xi, 64, is currently required by the country's constitution to step down as President after two five-year terms. He's already nearing the end of his first term, and will be formally elected to a second at the annual meeting next month of China's largely rubber-stamp parliament.
 
 
  The central committee of the Communist Party, which proposed the removal of the 2-term limit clause, is one of the largest elite ruling bodies of the Party.
 
 
  Still, constitutional reform needs to be approved by  , which is called the National People's Congress (NPC). 
 
 
  The NPC comprises nearly 3,000 delegates, making it the largest parliamentary body in the world. Delegates are elected to the NPC, but not directly by the people, like in India.
 
 
  Delegates are elected by the provincial people's assemblies. These assemblies are in turn are elected by lower level assemblies, and so on, through a series of tiers, all the way to the lowest on the totem pole, the local people's assemblies. These assemblies are the ones that are directly elected by the electorate. 
 
 
  Interestingly, the armed forces also elect delegates; over the decades they've held from 4 per cent to 17 per cent of delegates in the NPC. 
 
 
  Notionally, the NPC has the power to change the constitution and make laws. However, consider this: Of the 3,000-odd delegates, nearly 2,100 - or 70 per cent - are first and foremost members of the Communist Party. 
 
 
 That means the NPC is stacked with delegates chosen for their loyalty to the party, meaning the reform will not be blocked. "Their loyalty is to the party first, the NPC second," said a BBC explainer on how China's parliament works. For Xi, what this means is that party's central committee's proposal to remove term limits will not be blocked by China's parliament, or NPC.
 
 
  There might be one small niggle, though, for Xi. He isn't 'chairman' of the Communist party - at least not yet. China's first three leaders after the founding of the People's Republic in 1949 all carried the title party chairman - Mao Zedong, Hua Guofeng and then Hu Yaobang. It has not been used since.
 
 
 Most observers say that's not going to be an issue for Xi. "Titles don't matter as much in China as they do in the West. Here what matters is whether you are the emperor. In China, ordinary people already consider Xi Jinping to be the emperor," said Zhang Ming, a professor of political science at Renmin of China in Beijing, to Reuters news agency.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
