CHENNAI: It was in 1968 that 28-year-old Velu Viswanadhan decided to take his friend’s advice to travel. So, when an opportunity came to go to Europe to exhibit works of Indian artists, his friends helped him collect enough money for a one-way ticket. All he wanted to do was visit Paris to see the original paintings of artists like Picasso and Matisse. But the city became his home and later, with international acclaim, his moniker. Stories like this were the highlight of ‘Open Studios’ at   Artists’ Village on Saturday afternoon.

 During the two-day event, 30 artists living at the commune on   have thrown open their studios for the public to take a look, ask questions or buy their work. "In Paris, there is a tradition of artists opening their doors to the public once a year. When we discussed it here, our friends were inspired," says Viswanadhan, who introduced the concept at Cholamandal along with his partner, artist  .
 
 Like a museum, every turn of the road in the serene set up has a surprise with an ‘Open Studio’ sign warmly welcoming people into abodes of creativity. Sculptures dotting gardens and porticos and living rooms stacked with paintings give a glimpse into the inner lives of artists. "I had visited the gallery before but I didn’t know about the struggles the artists underwent when they built this place," says Harish S, an aspiring   from Kancheepuram, who had dropped into sculptor P S Nandhan’s home.
 
 One of the oldest members of the commune today, Nandhan was in his 30s when he joined his teacher K C S Paniker in 1965 to set up an island of peace for artists to live and work. In Nandhan’s home, among the scores of sculptures are strewn dozens of stunning line drawings that for an instant make one rethink the sculptor’s oeuvre. "I work the way I was taught in college — to master drawing. So, though I may have drawn every day of my life, I have never displayed it," says the 89-year-old.
 
 But do artists, who value their personal space, enjoy having people around? "Very much so. This informal exchange with people is also inspiring," says young painter-sculptor Shailesh BO. "Though I may not be sitting with my paint and brush today, the reaction of viewers to a work helps shape it."
 
 It is a two-way street, points out Tarbouriech. "Professionally, gallerists or art enthusiasts can have a look at a range of pieces and not just a series for an exhibition. And artists get an honest feedback or an unlikely buyer," she says. "It is also intriguing to see what kind of effect art has on people, especially children, who may show an interest after an experience like this," says Tarbouriech, who has also arranged for paintings of a handful of children with learning disabilities to be displayed.
 
 So, if you have ever wondered how artists live, why someone paints a figure and others do abstracts, or if you just want to experience a day out with art and artists, head to Injambakkam today between 11am and 7pm.
 
 
