Chennai: Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (DICV) hopes that its Indian operations will break even this year as more people buy high-powered trucks on the back of economic recovery and GST implementation.

 DICV’s losses due to poor truck sales had peaked to 50% of its net worth, forcing it to send a statutory reference to the Bureau for Industrial & Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) in 2014. The past few months have been positive for the truck-maker.
 
 “Last year we turned cash-flow positive and this year we will achieve break-even,” said Marc Llistosella, the man who built the DICV factory in Oragadam. He was the former MD of DICV and the head of Daimler Truck Asia and will step down from the organization in March 2018. “This is the first time that that a heavy asset business achieves a break-even in five-and-half years of operations,” he added.
 
 DICV, he said, was witnessing a surge in orders. “We used to produce 250 vehicles a week till recently. Now we are making 250 a day. In some cases, we are turning down orders.”
 
 Nearly half of its dealers have turned profitable for the past six months and another 35% of dealers were getting there. “Only a few of them are wobbly. But we will take care of them,” Llistosella said.
 
 DICV, he said, will double its market share in India over three-to-four years. “When compared the top two players, we are still small on numbers. But, we are witnessing a very strong business.” 
 
 DICV’s assessment of Indian market “was perfect”. “All of what we had planned and envisaged has happened. GST, pollution control regulations, scrapping of old trucks (discussion is underway). Just that there has been a 15-to-18 month delay. Overall we have nothing to complain,” he added.
 
 Slamming the automotive industry body Siam, Llistosella said that the prime minister was taking steps and measures for the industry and not Siam. “I don’t see any value in the old men’s club — Siam. We don’t see them take any initiatives or come with innovative of ideas for the industry. My European friend in Siam who sells 400 units has the ego of that of a 4000-vehicle seller.”
 
 Truck makers moved the apex court seeking clarification on the cut-off date for implementing BS IV regulations. “My competitors instead of seeking to implement pollution control measures in their vehicles from April 1, 2018, sought relaxation to accept registration of trucks made till March 2017, but sold thereafter too. In the process they all built inventory of 75,000 vehicles. That was roguish and is a good enough example for us not being active member in SIAM,” he said.
 
 “We (Daimler) are an ethical organization. We will not indulge ourselves in the way our competitors behave. Infact, we will not even recruit engineers who had worked for my competitors while everyone is poaching engineers from us with fancy salaries,” he said.
 
 
