NOIDA: A hacker menace is stalking university students in Noida, breaking into their   accounts to access their social network, and extort money from their online friends through popular mobile wallet  . 

 The hacker blackmails students by sending a fake URL, threatening to upload their fake photos and videos on porn sites. Once the link is clicked, the users’ Facebook account is hacked.
 
 The   (name changed on request), an undergraduate student of journalism and mass communication at  , Noida campus, has filed a complaint at the police chowki in Sector 62 (which reports to the Sector 58 police station), and Noida’s cyber cell, after her Facebook account was hacked and misused.
 
 On December 18, she received a suspicious URL on her Facebook account from a friend’s handle. The sender was known to her, hence she did not think twice before clicking on it.
 
  “The message stated that I’d be able to access all websites using this proxy URL. As soon as I clicked on the link from curiosity, a fake Facebook bar opened on a new window. Without realising what had happened, I filled in my username and password, and my account was hacked,” she said.
 
 The hacker started using Kanchan’s account and sending messages to her friends. “The hacker sent text messages to my friends and sought money through Paytm, stating I was unwell and needed it. Some of my friends transferred Rs 2,000-3,000 to the Paytm account number,” she said. The hacker later started sending the suspicious link to more friends of Aggarwal, stating their photos have been uploaded on porn sites. Those who believed the message and clicked on the link, also had their accounts hacked.
 
 Aggarwal started getting calls and messages from her friends and relatives, informing something was wrong with her Facebook account. She then contacted the friend who had sent her the suspicious URL. “This friend told me her account had also been hacked in a similar manner, that she was not the one sending the messages from her account since then,” said Aggarwal.
 
 “I’m very upset. The hacker is on a spree, exploiting people, extorting money and defaming me,” she told TOI. Anil Pratap Singh, SHO, Sector 58, said they had forwarded it to Noida’s Centre for Cyber Crime Investigation. “Primary investigation has revealed the accused has deleted the complainant’s account. Police are tracing hacker using electronic surveillance,” he said.
 
 
