THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   from the state to other countries as well as to other states within the country that has been a speciality of the state since 1960s, is now showing a declining trend, confirms a latest research paper prepared by Centre for Development Studies (CDS) and planning board.

 The paper titled ‘Impact of mortality and fertility transitions in Kerala on migration and its implications for the state’s economy’ prepared jointly by the CDS, planning board, International Labour Organization and the Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, which was presented here on Monday, finds that while this trend will be on the decline, African countries are emerging as the new destination for  . “Migration from the state is already showing a declining trend. It will be a long-term trend and will continue even after another decade,” professor at the CDS Irudaya   said.
 
  
  
 
 According to the paper, the number of international migrants from the state peaked during 2013 with 2.4 million migrants living outside the country which has declined to 2.2 million in 2016. Similar is the case with migration to other states. The number declined from 1.1 million in 2003 to 0.9 million in 2008 and further declined to 0.65 million by 2016.
 
 The paper finds that the main reason for this declining trend is the population control that has reduced the number of people in the age group who migrate and the stricter restrictions being imposed by several countries. “The nationalisation schemes and similar measures in the   region may further reduce migration of Keralites to the region that accounted for more than four-fifths of the international migrants from Kerala. As more and more countries in the region adopt similar regimes, more Keralites will be forced to either return to Kerala or opt for alternative destinations. This is likely to result in a reduction of remittances, adversely affecting the economy,” it said.
 
 However, it is also likely that the African region may emerge as a prominent destination for migrant workers from Kerala, the paper adds. “Not that   will become next Gulf but Africa is growing and we can go and invest in Africa and create employment for them. Countries like Nigeria, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Sudan, Rwanda, etc. have growing economies and big needs for education health, infrastructure, etc. Our people who can invest in engineering colleges, medical colleges, etc. and can launch them and there will be demand also for professionals like doctors and teachers,” chief of disaster risk reduction of United Nations Environment Programme, Muralee Thummarukudy said.
 
 Interestingly, the paper finds that the migration to the state from other states has either surpassed or is on the verge of overtaking the quantum of migration from the state. “ The state needs to realise that it requires the migrant workers more than they require the state,” executive director of CMID Benoy Peter said. 
 
 
