NEW DELHI: The   by the safai karamcharis of North Delhi Municipal   has caused a complete breakdown of   services in many   areas. On Wednesday, roads and central verges in popular markets, including Karol Bagh, Gaffar Market, Ajmal Khan Road and Arya Samaj Road, were reeking of   that had accumulated over a week. With a resolution of the demand of the sanitation workers’ unions nowhere in sight, the situation is likely only to deteriorate.

 
  
  
 
 With the possibility of diseases breaking out, shopkeepers are an anxious lot. Rakesh Kumar, who sells eatables at Gaffar Market, said, “The shop owners have been throwing garbage on the central verge and at street corners, but we have run out of space. Parking lots, intersections and roundabouts have now become dustbins. There are dead animals lying around, and there could be an outbreak.”
 
 Some employees are sitting on an indefinite hunger strike outside the Civic Centre on Minto Road — headquarters of the north and south corporations — and the protesting safai karamchari unions have demanded early payment of salary arrears, regularisation of long-serving irregular employees, access to medical services, and the release of pension/gratuity and other benefits to retired personnel.
 
 Rajender Mewati, general secretary of the United Front of MCD Employees, said on Wednesday, “We will continue our agitation till our demands are met. We have contacted other workers’ unions and they are expected to join the stir. The municipal corporation cannot keep on postponing welfare of the sanitation workers through mere assurances.”
 
 The workers have been in ferment for several days now. The demonstrators organised a march to Parliament on Tuesday, intending to highlight their demands there, but were stopped near the Maharaja Ranjit Singh flyover creating a traffic gridlock that lasted over three hours. Besides the sanitation workers, over 35,000 employees of the north civic body and 18,000 employees of the east corporation too haven’t received their salaries for varying periods. 
 
 Meanwhile, residents of several localities are condemned to live in insufferable conditions. TOI visited residential areas in Patel Nagar, Karol Bagh and Rajender Nagar to assess the deteriorating sanitation conditions there. Niharika Gupta, a housewife who lives in Karol Bagh, was aghast. “I have a baby and I am always conscious that he will catch infection. The corporation is playing with our lives,” she exclaimed. “Even private workers who used to come and pick up garbage from our houses have ceased work. It has been almost 10 days and now the streets have turned into garbage dumps.”
 
 Many residents’ welfare associations complained that the striking employees were preventing private workers from clearing the mess. S P Mudgal, a member of the Maya Vihar RWA near Mayapuri, said that union workers had snatched brooms from people who are cleaning the area. “Pretty soon the entire situation will go out of hand,” Mudgal feared.
 
 Tilak Raj Kataria, chairman of the north corporation’s standing committee, appealed to the workers on Wednesday to resume work in the interest of public health. “We have convened a meeting of officials of the labour welfare and environment maintenance services departments to discuss all issues related to safai karamcharis,” Kataria said. “The civic officials will also meet the representatives of workers unions and find a way out of the imbroglio. We hope for positive results.”
 
 
