BENGALURU: For aspiring entrepreneurs, often the biggest risk is taking the decision to quit their current job.

 Corporates and organizations are beginning to help mitigate that risk by offering sabbaticals to employees to try their hands at entrepreneurship. The companies gain too, as they are able to retain the talent if the employee does not succeed in the entrepreneurship attempt.
 
 SAP Labs started a sabbatical programme in August 2016, exclusively in India, and three employees have so far taken it up. Mahesh Nayak, COO of  , said employees who have been at SAP for at least two years are eligible. “India is a hotbed for startups. There were requests coming in from employees. And we realised this is the best way to retain our innovative employees,” he said.
 
 To be selected, employees have to present their startup idea before a committee. Once approved, the employee can take a no-pay leave and choose to come back any time in the following two years for the same role or a different role depending on the vacancy in the company. No additional help is provided by the company.
 
 Viswanadh Akella, who started a blockchain startup   in 2016, was one of the first employees to take up this programme and is still an employee with SAP. With engineering experience of 14 years, the idea for his startup — a trading platform for cryptocurrencies — came to him while working as the innovation head at SAP Labs.
 
 “I wanted to start something related to the new technologies being developed. I was drawing a decent salary, so it was a big risk to venture out. When I told my senior about my decision to quit, he told me about this new policy that the company was going to come up with. I signed the contract that let me come back to SAP within two years if my venture didn’t work out,” Akella said.
 
 
 
 
 Akella’s venture has won a customer, so for now, he does not see himself going back to SAP.
 
 Last year, the   (KSUM) announced it would provide sabbatical leave to the faculty members of all engineering colleges in Kerala. The policy is being finalized.
 
 Saji Gopinath, CEO of KSUM, said the government order has come and a committee with representatives from top universities in Kerala has been set up to formulate the final guidelines. The order is expected to be rolled out in early March during a faculty entrepreneurship conclave being organised by KSUM.
 
 “A lot of college projects and entrepreneurship projects in colleges here are aided by the faculty. So the faculty will be granted a fellowship by the college for two years. We want to create an industry body for every engineering college,” Gopinath said. This, he added, should help in creating more college enterprises. Thammaiah B, MD of staffing solutions firm Kelly Services India, said globally companies have been known to give sabbatical options, of 6 months to a year, to top performers. It's given so that the employee can complete an academic course, or deal with a personal issue. Giving out sabbaticals for entrepreneurship, Thammaiah said, is a fairly new phenomena.
 
 “Encouraging employees to start up would usually come from the knowledge that 90% of the startups fail, so it's the best way to retain top talent that is enthusiastic about becoming entrepreneurs,” he said, adding that in India, the practice is just beginning.
 
