MUMBAI: A   police   went beyond his call of duty to retrieve an ailing   from his car and rush him to the   in a western suburb recently. Constable Vishwanath Maher stayed at the hospital until the man’s family arrived and refused to accept any reward from them. A colleague of the motorist has uploaded the cop’s photograph on  , hoping senior   officers will take notice and appreciate his work.

 Maher was on duty at the junction near Oberoi Mall on Western Express Highway in Goregaon East on March 21. Around 8.45am, he noticed a car halt at the signal but the motorist was not making any movement. The cop gathered that the motorist had passed out and tried to open the door but it was locked. He then broke the window pane of the seat adjacent to the driver’s and opened the door. He called out to people for help to carry the heavily built motorist. With the help of six bystanders, Maher moved him to a hospital in Goregaon. Before leaving the signal, he asked a co-worker to step in his place at the busy junction; the car was moved to a corner. 
  
 
 Maher found the motorist’s cellphone and called the last dialled number. It belonged to an acquaintance who knew a colleague from his workplace. The motorist was identified as Neeraj A, a 48-year-old manager with a brokerage house in Malad West. He had been driving to his workplace and was to take the Goregaon-Mulund Link Road to Malad West when he fainted. “As soon as Neeraj’s acquaintance informed us that he had been found   in his car, we rushed to Goregaon. Maher stayed back at the hospital till he was certain that Neeraj’s family and friends had arrived. We offered him sweets but he said he wouldn’t accept anything except water as it was very hot that day,” said Harsh Shah, Neeraj’s colleague. 
 
 Neeraj lost consciousness after suddenly developing high blood pressure. “His pulse rate was also high. Doctors said it was a good thing the cop had brought him to the hospital in time. Neeraj was under observation for a day and is back home now,” said Shah. “I met Maher again to collect Neeraj’s car keys.”
 
 Maher (40) told TOI that he had similarly rushed to the rescue of a BEST bus driver who had passed out at the wheel a few days earlier. "There was massive traffic congestion. We managed to bring the driver down, helped him into an autorickshaw and rushed him to the hospital. We are doing our job and do not expect anything in return,” said Maher.
 
 
