Vadodara: Two cousin brothers, who killed their uncle’s paramour, were arrested by the local crime branch (LCB) of Vadodara rural police on Wednesday. 

 Alpesh Rathwa and his cousin were seething with anger after their wives had deserted them due to their uncle’s extra-marital affair of Jayanti Rathwa with a woman named Champa Nayak in Raniya village near Savli. The brothers also humiliated as Champa came from a lower sub-community.
 
 On December 7, Jayanti had lodged a complaint of murder and robbery against unidentified persons who had killed a woman and robbed Rs two lakh froma tobacco godown where he used to work as the caretaker. The complaint was lodged at Bhadarva police station. Police was suspicious that the woman, Champa, was murdered as she stoppped them from robbing the cash from the office.
 
 During investigation, police got to know that the brothers had murdered Champa as she had an affair with their uncle Jayanti. During interrogation, the duo admitted that Jayanti used to bring Champa to their family gatherings. Since she was from lower community, they used to ask him to leave her. “Their wives had also warned them but when Jayanti did not budge, they went returned to their parents’ houses,” said a police official.
 
 “Feeling humiliated by their wives’ deserting them due to their uncle’s affair, they first decided to talk to Champa and if she would not be convinced, they planned to kill her,” said police.
 
 Also, the statements of two GUVNL employees working at the godown, told police during questioning that they had seen two men sitting with the woman. “When they were leaving after finishing their work, the two were still sitting there. This raised suspicion that they Champa might have been killed by some persons known to her,” said D B Barad, police inspector, LCB.
 
 Cops then interrogated Jayanti and his wife Kapila. While Jayanti did not tell the cops about his illicit relationship with Champa, Kapila spilled the beans. Police then interrogated their family members and checked their whereabouts on the day of the crime. Barad said that they learnt that Alpesh had deposited a large amount in his bank account after the murder and he had not gone to work on the day of the crime.
 
 Kamlesh, who works as labourer, had gone to Saurashtra after the murder. When cops came to know that he had returned, they picked up the duo from Padra where Alpesh works at a consumer care company.
 
 They told the police that they asked Champa to leave their uncle, but when she refused they hit her on her head with an iron pestle and then strangulated her.
 
 
