The lawns of the  , now known as the   (AEPTA),  , hosted a grand dinner to conclude the annual Captain's Cup tournament recently. While the tournament was on till the afternoon, a dinner was held for the prize distribution ceremony and to conclude the tournament formally. Two Army bands kept the guests entertained with not just Bollywood numbers but also some of Ed Sheeran's hits.

  
  Gen  , Chief of the Army Staff, with wife   
 
  
  Lt Gen Sarath Chand, Vice Chief of the Army Staff and General Dalbir Singh Suhag, former Chief of the Army Staff
 
 
 
 General Bipin Rawat, Chief of the Army Staff, was invited as the chief guest with his wife Madhulika Rawat at the dinner. Former Chiefs of the Army Staff, General Dalbir Singh Suhag and General  , were also present at the event. Major General  , who was also the Captain of the Course for the tournament, while giving a brief about the tournament, addressed the gathering and said, "Today we conclude the 36th edition of the Captain's Cup, which was started in 1982 by the then Captain of the Course, Brigadier VP Gupta. Weather conditions for this year's tournament were fantastic. This year's Captain's Cup was played for four days in six categories and approximately 600 golfers took part, including ladies and children. I thank all the members who made this tournament possible and contributed immensely to make this evening possible."
 
  
  Maj Gen Rajpal Punia with wife Anita Punia
 
  
  Gen JJ Singh, former Chief of the Army Staff, with wife Anupama Singh
 
  
 As the formal ceremonies ended, the bands of two units – 505 Army Base Wks and Darsana – began their performance with 'Take Me Home', 'Country Roads' and also played 'Perfect' by Ed Sheeran. A few Bollywood tracks were also played by the military bands. Geeta Kapoor, a teacher who attended the dinner with her husband, told us, "We enjoyed the dinner so much. The band was definitely the highlight, they played really well."
 
  
  Shikha Meelu, an AEPTA member, won the tournament in the women's category
 
  Her daughter, Rashika Kapoor, a student from NIFT, added, "The food was also great. We really enjoyed ourselves and it felt great to attend the dinner with my family."
 
  
  Maj Gen   with wife Seema Narula at the event
 
  
   , an AEPTA member, was the winner in the men's category
  
  
  
 
