CHANDIGARH: Recommending amendments in service rules in implementation of   of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, a committee of Panjab   has recommended that the provision of two-third majority should be replaced with simple majority of the persons present and voting to decide on the major penalty if found guilty of sexual harassment. The committee has suggested that   should recommend to the MHRD to modify the regulation of PU calendar so that simple majority can terminate a PU teacher on the ground of serious misconduct, involving moral turpitude, inefficiency or incapacity. These recommendations will be taken up by the   syndicate on May 26.

 Taking into ambit the students and research scholars as well, the committee has recommended that special provisions for imposing the penalties under the Act for students and research scholars may be framed and published in the handbook of information. The students and research scholars are covered under the Act, however, these service rules are not applied to them.
 
 The replacement of the regulation of two-third majority with simple majority holds significance since in the senate meeting on April 1 when the House polled to terminate the faculty member found guilty of sexual harassment, the House failed to decide on the quantum of punishment. However, the House could not achieve the two-third majority to reach at the consensus to terminate the faculty member. If approved by syndicate on May 26, the senate will decide the quantum of punishment with simple majority on May 27.
 
 Acting tough on the complaints on sexual harassment, the University’s committee has recommended broadening its definition of “workplace”. The committee has also recommended that action shall be taken on PUCASH report as soon as possible but not exceeding 60 days as mandated by the Sexual harassment of women at workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. It is also recommended that if need be, a special meeting of the governing bodies of the University may be called to comply strictly with the requirement of the Act.
 
 The clause that enquiry shall be conducted by Panjab University Committee Against Sexual Harassment (PUCASH) in case of a complaint of sexual harassment should be included in the PU calendar.
 
