CHANDIGARGH: To mobilize a large gathering in   ahead of the conviction of   chief   in rape cases, an emotional appeal was made that those reaching the state’s capital would reap the fruits equivalent to 300 years of prayers. The followers were conveyed the impression that whatever spiritual powers or blessings ‘Satguru’ (dera head) had earned so far would be transmitted to those reaching Panchkula.

 Setting a target of around 15 lakh-strong gathering of followers in Panchkula, the dera management had also appealed its followers to take mass leaves from their workplace and stop sending their children to school to ensure attendance in Panchkula.
 
 These revelations have surfaced from the call intercepts of mobile phones of key dera functionaries by the   police from August 17, when the special   court had asked the dera head to appear before the court, to August 25, 2017, when the latter had actually appeared.
 
 Some of the transcripts of call intercepts, accessed by  , revealed that the instructions were to assemble as close to the district court complex in Panchkula as possible. Some also revealed that the followers had clear instructions to remain on fast during their stay in Panchkula, and if that is not possible, they were to bring along four-five days ration and water bottles.
 
 The transcripts of these intercepts, which is now part of the challan presented against several accused in the case related to conspiracy behind August 25 violence in Panchkula court, also revealed that in-charge of various local units of dera were asked to supply red chili powder, lathis/dandas (sticks), kerosene oil, acid and large quantity of hand gloves in Panchkula.
 
 Some of the call intercepts of followers on August 22 reveal that when senior functionaries of the dera found that private vehicles were not being allowed to enter Panchkula, messages were conveyed immediately to the followers to reach Panchkula by state roadways buses. Intercepts also revealed that in-charge of local ‘naam charcha ghar’ (local deras) were given a target of bringing a specific number of people. Similar appeals were made to gather in   and other places. 
 
 
