RAIPUR: A 15-year-old girl from Chhattisgarh’s Surajpur district who was trafficked and sold in   in 2014 has returned home with a toddler. Police have arrested one accused who gang-raped the girl along with his relative and later sold her to a man for marriage. She was forcibly married and had delivered a baby. It was when she was out with her mentally-disabled sister-in-law, she gathered courage to flee and somehow reached her home.

 According to Ramendra Singh, inspector in charge, the girl hailing from Ramanujnagar of Surajpur was 11-year-old in 2014 when she was returning from school and a man known to her, identified as Sriram, intercepted her way.
 
 He offered her lift to drop her off to home on his bike and drove her inside forest where his relative   was waiting.
 
 The duo raped the girl and clicked her obscene pictures before letting her go home threatening of dire consequences and of leaking the pictures on the Internet.
 
 Singh added that the girl chose to remain quiet over the incident which encouraged the accused and they decided to abduct her. The duo kept her in confinement and repeatedly raped her for several days before selling her off to a person called Raghubeer Dhobi in Shivpuri region of Madhya Pradesh worth Rs 62,000. 
 
 In her statement the girl said that she was forcibly married off, was harassed and beaten by the man even as she delivered a child at the age of 14. It dawned on her that she was sold when once she was caught in an attempt to escape and the man told her that he had bought her from the two men.
 
 She told police that she managed to escape and catch a train when she went out on pretext of going for a walk with her sister-in-law who is mentally unstable. She returned home with her toddler and sister-in-law on January 6.
 
 Police said that an FIR was lodged on January 8 and police have nabbed one of the main accused Sriram while a team of cops would be sent to Shivpuri to arrest Dhobi.
 
 Parents of girl hadn’t filed a missing complaint assuming that she had absconded with some guy and they didn’t want to feel embarrassed before the villagers.
 
 Police have booked the accused under Sections of 4 and 12 of POCSO and 363, 366 A, 368, 344, 376, 373 506, 509 of the IPC.
 
