TRICHY: A five-member team of doctors from   (SIF), SingHealth and KK Women's and Children's Hospital in Singapore carried out an annual audit at the obstetrics and gynaecology department of Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital ( ) in continuation of the ongoing project on obstetrics and neonatal care here on Monday. 

 The main objective of the inspection was to check whether the tertiary care hospital has been following the techniques taught by them to halt infant mortality rate (IMR) and maternal mortality rate (MMR) in  . “It was an annual audit as a part of the training programme being provided by the   for good obstetrics and neonatal practices. Our doctors have been applying the methods learnt from them. They are particular on safe obstetric practice,” Dean Dr G Anitha told TOI. The team consulted the doctors at the Comprehensive Emergency Obstetric and Newborn Care (CEmONC) centre at the hospital. 
 
 Named as “healthcare capacity building projects”, it included various training programmes including an on-site training in Singapore last year. A team of 21 doctors from MGMGH, Government Ranee’s medical college hospital in Pudukkottai, Chengalpattu medical college hospital and the public health department in   and Pudukkottai had attended a five-day training programme in Singapore from January 23 to 27 in 2017. An eight-member team of doctors from MGMGH was also part of this team. 
 
 Prior to that, a team of doctors from Singapore had conducted a training programme for the doctors and nurses at MGMGH in July 2015 on the same subject. MGMGH witnesses around 800 to 1,000 child births a month with caesarean cases accounting for half of them. Besides high-risk patients, the government hospitals pointed out the referral of pregnant women with complications as reasons for the mortality of the mother. The team claimed that Singapore had attained near zero mortality rate in maternal health care and child health care by applying safe practices in obstetric care. 
 
 
