Bengaluru: Citing the scare of last Christmas when five jumbos trooped into Madikeri town at a time when there were more than 5,000 trekkers in the adjoining forests, members of the Save Kodagu and Cauvery campaign on Tuesday emphasized the impact rampant tourism is having on their region’s ecosystem.

 The members asked all Bengalureans who benefit from Cauvery water to join them in the agitation against large-scale developmental projects proposed to be taken up in Kodagu region. The projects include two railway lines and four four-lane highways.
 
 However, on Tuesday, Mysuru and Kodagu MP Pratap Simha made it clear that no approval had been given for the   railway project, one of the two railway lines set to come up.
 
  
  Arkavathy runs dry
 Kodagu is the principal catchment area of the Cauvery river and contributes as much as 70% of inflow into the Krishna Raja Sagar dam.
 
 CP Muthanna, president of   and coordinator of the Save Kodagu and Cauvery campaign, requested people to join their rally to be held in Mysuru on February 18.
 
 “We are all inviting all beneficiaries of Cauvery water to join us in opposing these projects. The annual footfall of tourists to Kodagu is in excess of 13-14lakh already. When the government announces the final alignment of the tracks, some of which will be below ground in the forest areas, we will have an idea of the damage, but we will surely lose thousands of trees and acres of coffee plantations. There are people living in those areas with homes and livelihoods, and they will be affected. There are merely 5.5lakh residents in Kodagu and we demand that all national highways running through Kodagu are restricted to two-lanes,” he said.
 
 The association met chairman of the Railway Board in Delhi, who told them that the Thalassery-Mysuru railway line could be cancelled if the state government expressed its objections. Gram panchayats of Balele, Nitoor, Canoor, Nalkeri, Devarpura, Thithimathi and Ponnapsanthe have agreed to oppose the railway project as well as the survey. They also expressed their unhappiness with MP Pratap Simha for not sharing project details with members of his constituency when he knew about it in 2016.
 
 The campaigners pointed out that Cauvery water does not reach the sea for four months in the year due to reduced inflow, and the phenomenon of salt water entering the river in parts is taking place, rendering its stretches saline. 
 
 
 
 “A major tributary of the Cauvery is the Arkavathy, which has gone completely dry in 30 years. Flow is declining. Developmental activities have a terrible impact on the springs that feed the river, and damage ground water reservoirs also. These are sensitive ecosystems that need to be looked after. Only if there isn’t enough water will Bengaluru sit up and take notice. Water supply to the city may halve,” S Vishwanath, a water expert from  , said.
 
 He also said that inflow of effluents from industrial areas would further impact the quality of water. “There may be a need for more advanced filtration systems to the extent of reverse osmosis filtration technology. Right now, it’s mere sand filtration and chlorination,” he said.
 
