JAIPUR: The state police are on alert ahead of   on Saturday. Central paramilitary forces and companies of Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) have been deployed across several districts of the state. 

 Internet series will be suspended in Sawai Madhopur for 20 hours from 8pm to 4pm. The administration says that step is taken to prevent any communal discord between communities.
 
 The administration and police are on their toes especially in the wake of clashes that took place during   on April 2, and a subsequent call for   on   on April 10.
 
 Chief secretary N C Goel also held a meeting with senior officials of Rajasthan police on Friday to discuss law and order preparations in the state. Additional DGP (law and order) N R K Reddy told TOI that all measures have been taken up by the police for a peaceful and cordial Ambedkar Jayanti in the state. He added that sensitive districts have been asked to be on the guard.
 
 The Jaipur police have also deployed policemen across every nook and coroner of the city for Friday. Additional commissioner of police (law and order) Nitin Deep Blaggan said that Central paramilitary forces have been deployed and police personnel in adequate numbers will be present in all areas.
 
 The sources in Rajasthan police informed TOI that about 200 events are scheduled in the state on Saturday. "We are keeping a tight vigil in areas such as Hindaun city,   city, Bharatpur, and areas of Jaipur that saw some clashes or there is simmering tension. The local administration has been holding meetings with several such organizations," the official told TOI.
 
 The cops are also on alert after two idols were vandalized in the state, one in Achrol on April 5 and another in Jorpura in Kalwar area on the same day. "Every year there are grand events organized to mark this day, we have allowed all such events which have been traditionally held every year. But the events which are being organized by new groups are under our scanner," the official said.
 
 The intelligence wing of the state police has been keeping a tab on miscreants too, "There may be some elements which could ferment troubles. We don't expect any trouble on this occasion as it's been traditionally about remembering Dr. BR Ambedkar and his idols. The events usually start with some small rallies, cultural events etc," the official said. The local administration, however, has been directed to keep a strict monitoring in places such as Alwar , Sikar and Barmer which saw massive violence on April 2. "There are simmering tensions in some places and hence extra security measures needs to be taken place," the official said.
 
 
