THRISSUR: Amid reports of rising frustrations and suicides among police personnel, the story of P S Dineshan, brings to light the systemic rot that has besieged the force .

 
 The ordeals of the 54-yearold , who hails from Manaloor in Thrissur, begins with the arrest of one Mufazil, 25, following a ruckus outside a bar at Vadanappilli on February 9, 2012. Dineshan was working as a civil police officer. Mufazil was released the following day after a case was registered against him. However, he alleged custodial torture and sought medical treatment. After the torture allegation was picked up by media, special branch DSP conducted a probe. During investigations, Sreejith, an activist in the area who had come to the police station for some purpose on February 9, testified before the DSP that he had witnessed the torture.
 
  The policemen at Vadanappilli station, who came to know about the testimony, detained Sreejith and allegedly tortured him, following which he filed a petition at the high court.
 
 
 However, the HC dismissed the petition after   submitted that Sreejith was called to the police station only to elicit details regarding a petition. At the same time, the CI submitted to the special branch DSP saying that Sreejith was detained relating to an illegal sand mining case. The CI’s report also said that five police officers at the station, including Dineshan had links with Sreejith’s illegal sand trafficking operations. Interestingly, all these five officers had spoken against the detention and torture of Mufazil and Sreejith.
 
 
 Four of the five police officials facing allegations were removed from the service, on October 10, 2013, by the then district SP, while no action was taken against the fifth. All of them were reinstated by the   on December 24, 2013, based on their representations. However, their two increments were cut.
 
 
 Dineshan, filed an appeal against increment cut to the   (KAT), while the other three chose to remain silent, apparently to avert further antagonisms from higher-ups.
 
 
 The government finally issued an order restoring his increment on April 21, 2017 based on the finding of the KAT that Sreejith was not part of sand mafia and the allegations were fabricated.
 
 
 Dineshan had to suffer humiliations at the personal level too. His wife and son stayed separately following the humiliations and harassments they had to suffer from the relatives and neighbours. Posters against Dineshan were put up in front of the school where his son was studying.
 
 
 Meanwhile, Mufazil had filed a petition at the HC and Justice   issued an order on February 1, 2018 directing the IG Thrissur Range to act against the erring cops. But the authorities have not implemented the order. Dineshan is now working at the Kunnamkulam police station as ASI. Mufazil is getting ready to file a contempt petition if the authorities do not implement the court order.
 
 
 “It is not that any particular officer had animosity towards me, but I became an irritant when I was not becoming a part of the group interests that was prevailing in the station at that point of time,” said Dineshan.
 
