CHENNAI: Almost two years after the state recorded zero cases, two patients from a private hospital in Nandanam were tested positive for   and three others were suspected to display symptoms of the infectious disease.

  
  
 
 Doctors at the   have red-flagged   about the cases. The patients were moved to the isolation ward to prevent spread of the infection. “As of now we don’t know the source of the infection but the common link between most of them is that they have eaten food brought from outside the hospital,” said infectious disease expert Dr Abdul Ghafur.
 
 The patients — whose details have been withheld — were stable, sources said. They have been admitted for various diseases including cancer, doctors said.
 
 Since the hospital laboratory confirmed cholera on Monday, the hospital has also tested 50 samples of water and food from within the hospital but did not find any contamination. The hospital has initiated “emergency codes” to prevent spread of the infection. “We have banned patients and attenders from eating food brought from outside the hospital. Doctors, nurses and paramedics have been put on alert and there is stringent monitoring of hygiene and hand wash,” he said. Patients showing clinical signs of cholera — diarrhoea, vomiting, dehyradation — are being tested and treated symptomatically.
 
 Corporation health officer Dr N A   said the civic body was told that five people admitted to the hospital for more than a month have been infected with cholera. “They were tested positive in lab culture after they had severe diarrhoea. We are recording them as an outbreak within the hospital. We will be forwarding the case to the food safety department. They will test food and water samples within the hospitals and outside,” he said. Food safety commissioner   confirmed that a probe has begun.
 
 Cholera is an acute diarrhoeal infection caused by ingestion of food or water contaminated with the bacterium vibrio cholerae. Doctors say it is an extremely virulent disease that can cause severe acute watery diarrhoea. It takes between 12 hours and five days for a person to show symptoms after ingesting contaminated food or water and can affect children and adults.
 
 Most people infected with the bacteria do not develop any symptoms, although the bacteria are present in their faeces for one to 10 days after infection and are shed back into the environment, potentially infecting other people.
 
 Among people who develop symptoms, the majority have mild or moderate symptoms, while a minority develop acute watery diarrhoea with severe dehydration. This can lead to death if left untreated. “Patients with cancer have poor immunity. The bacteria can affect them too quickly,” a senior doctor said.
 
