BENGALURU: The state cabinet on Thursday decided to set up a sub-committee to look into the recommendations of the Justice Sadashiva Commission following the controversy over its implementation.

 It’s seen as a strategic pre-poll move by the   government to buy time and wriggle out of the controversy.
 
 The  , which looked into methods of equitable distribution of reservation facilities among Scheduled Castes (SCs), had recommended internal reservation among castes by broadly reclassifying all the 101 castes into four groups. The commission had recommended reclassification of all Scheduled Castes into four groups of Right Community, Left Community, Touchables and Other Scheduled Castes communities for equitable distribution of the overall reservation of 15% being given to Scheduled Castes.
 
 Of this 15% reservation, the commission recommended 6% to the Left Community, 5% to the Right Community, 3% to Touchables and 1% to Other Scheduled Castes communities
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah has been under pressure from Scheduled Castes, Bhovi, Lambani and Right communities who were up in arms against the recommendations. They argued that the commission’s findings were not based on a scientific survey and they would accept the 2011 caste-based census conducted by the Backward Classes Commission.
 
 Congress legislators had warned that implementation of the report and splitting SC/STs based on population would spell doom to the party in the upcoming polls.
 
  Board Metro rail gets go-ahead
 
 The government has decided to decongest Bengaluru’s IT corridor by fast-tracking the 18-km Metro line that connects Central Silk Board Junction and K R Puram.
 
 The cabinet on Thursday gave its approval to BMRC raising funds through innovative financing mechanism for this project. A minister, who attended the meeting, said the Rs 3,600-crore line has been included in Phase II of the Namma Metro project and will be completed in two years.
 
 About 10 lakh people from the IT/BT sectors travel between Central Silk Board and K R Puram every day and are forced to endure traffic jams.
 
 After brainstorming with the IT/ITeS and BT sectors, head honchos and traffic experts, the government decided to develop a Metro line to clear the gridlocks.
 
 
