AHMEDABAD: In reply to a question by  ,   said on Monday that in total, 65   including lions, lion cubs and leopards have died unnaturally in the two years ending on December 31, 2017. The government, however, in its reply did not take into account deaths of lionesses.

 The government claimed that 291 big cats including lions, lion cubs and leopards have died in the last two years, among which there were 110 lions and lion cubs and 181leopards.
 
 The reply did not include the count of lioness deaths, but in an earlier reply to a question raised by Dariapur MLA Gyasuddin Shaikh, the government had said that in total 74 lionesses had died in last two years with 17 of them dying unnaturally.
 
 In its reply to Chudasama, the government said that 65 lions, lion cubs and leopards had met unnatural deaths and 77% of these were of leopards. The government said 21 leopards and leopard cubs died unnaturally in 2016, while in 2017 there were 29 such deaths.
 
 Forest officials said that if the deaths of lionesses are added the total rises to 365 big cat deaths including 82 unnatural deaths in two years. They said figures show that about 22% of deaths were categorized as unnatural.
 
 H S Singh, member of the National Board for Wildlife, said that among big cats, leopards suffer the highest number of unnatural deaths in the country as they have a higher population than other big cats.
 
 “Secondly, I also feel that people poison leopards and they are often electrocuted near human habitations,” said Singh. He further said that incursion of leopards near human settlements was leading to a rise in human-animal conflict.
 
 Singh said the most deaths of humans in humananimal conflict, 400 deaths, occurred due to conflict with elephants, followed by 96 deaths in leopard attacks and 30-40 deaths due to tigers while human deaths due to conflict with lions numbered between two and four.
 
 Singh said he felt the leopard would be higher than government estimates, adding, “I personally feel that their population is more than 14,000 in the country. The population of leopards in the 17 tiger states is more than 7,900. In Gir and nearby areas there are about 1,200 lions and leopards.”
 
 
 
 
