 is a subject that deals with everyday  , and that is something you cannot learn by heart. Rather, you have to understand the theories and principles. Physics examination tests exactly that — your knowledge of the subject which makes it an easy paper to score full marks.

 To start off, you must read the question paper carefully and prioritize the questions accordingly. Solve the paper according to your comfort, as this is crucial in boosting your confidence.
 
 If you find the paper tough, do not panic. Solve higher weightage marks questions first as there is a higher scoring margin. There is no scope for error or guess work in MCQs and short answer-type questions, so attempt the ones you are sure about.
 
 While studying, students often ignore the theoretical section ‘Modern Physics’, which bears all the MCQs of the paper. This also makes scoring easier. Also, without understanding the theory, you don’t have any luck with the numerical questions. More than 50% of the paper is set from ‘pptics’ and ‘electrodynamics’ section of your syllabus.
 
 All the chapters pertaining to these sections should be paid extra attention. These chapters have the most number of derivations, definitions and working principles, which are enough for you to pass the exam.
 
 The most common error students make is over-elaborating an answer. Pay attention to the marks you are answering for and write precisely in bullet points. This not only enhances presentation, but also makes it easier for you to structure your answers.
 
 You should write the relevant formulae and working principles while solving numerical questions because there is a step-wise marking system. Draw neat and well-labelled diagrams to avoid loss of marks.
 
 The writer is assistant professor at Jain International School
 
 Paper snapshot
 
 Name: Physics (CBSE, Std XII)
 
 Exam date: March 7
 
 Duration: 3 hrs
 
 Theory marks on paper: 70
 
 Expert tips
 
 Be calm and don’t get intimidated
 
 Manage your time appropriately so that you can cross check your answers
 
 Always try to remember textbook language and stick to it. Do not twist the language of laws and working principles
 
 Last-minute revision
 
 Solve at least one previous year paper one day before the exam
 
 Revise all the laws, working principles and derivations
 
 Practice everything in writing to avoid scrambling for words during the exam
 
 
