MUMBAI: Several   were shut on Tuesday in protest against a recent   order banning animal slaughter on shop premises. 

 “I went to buy meat on Tuesday morning, but was surprised to see the shop was shut. This was most unusual,” said a Santacruz resident. “I understood that meat shop owners had a reason for doing so.” 
 
 Earlier this month, the general manager of the BMC's Deonar abattoir sent a letter to the Bombay Suburban Khatik Association, informing its members that animal slaughter won’t be allowed at any place other than  . 
 
 In Mumbai, such a place is the Deonar abattoir. The association’s general secretary Tanveer Patel said, “We have reservations about slaughter of meat in the abattoir as we feel it’s not hygienic enough; modernisation of the abattoir is yet to take off. The BMC’s order will force us to shut shop as fresh meat can’t be made available to customers. It may even soon lead to a shortage.” 
 
 In April 1991, the BMC gave licenses to 189 shopkeepers to slaughter sheep/goat in special chambers in their shops. The permission was revoked by the BMC commissioner's order just a few months later. The revocation letter was challenged by the Khatik Association in the high court. 
 
 The BMC shows the current status of that case as dismissed. Patel said that till last week members brought livestock from the Deonar abattoir to sell in shops. 
 
 “The BMC dictated arrangement will not work as most of our customers demand fresh meat and prefer the same to be cut before them.” Dr Yogesh Shetye, general manager, Deonar abattoir, said, “The high court has directed the BMC not to issue licences permitting animal slaughter at any place other than a licensed slaughterhouse. We are only following the HC’s order. We are not preventing shopkeepers from selling meat, but only asking them to take the carcass from the abattoir.” 
 
 Bandra corporator Asif Zakaria said the BMC was harassing licensed shopkeepers while those without any permissions were allowed to sell freely. “Instead of curbing illegal slaughter of animals, licensed shopkeepers are being harassed. This is wrong,” he said.
 
