RAIPUR:   were on a roll till Saturday. The batsmen were putting runs on the board; fast bowlers were providing breakthroughs and spinners were among the wickets. Vidarbha clicked as a unit whole season.

 On Saturday, Vidarbha had the first collective failure of the season when they lost to Team Rajasthan in the Central Zone   tournament in Raipur. They didn't get the ideal start; middle order failed to repair the damages; pacers went for plenty upfront, while the spinners couldn't provide breakthroughs in the middle overs. In fact, three of the four Rajasthan wickets fell were in form of run outs. Clearly, Vidarbha struggled against the strongest bowling unit of the tournament.
 
 Now, Vidarbha are up against a star-studded Uttar Pradesh on Monday. It's a must-win situation for Vidarbha to qualify for the Super League stage. UP are struggling but they are capable of bouncing back. They have already lost two of three matches and need to win their next two with good margins. UP showed enough intent against Railways on Saturday to record their first win and they would surely want to continue that.
 
 Fortunately for Vidarbha, they have good net run rate of +0.708. The Suresh Raina-led side needs victories with huge margin in their last two matches to qualify for the Super League. With a solitary victory and the net run-rate of -0.208, they need to make things happen, while Vidarbha can afford to play normal cricket. A win would be enough for Vidarbha to shut the doors on both MP and UP. Rajasthan have already qualified while Railways and   are already out of contention with three losses each.
 
 The loss, however, haven't created panic in Vidarbha camp, though they were upset with their performance against Rajasthan. All eleven players, who played against Rajasthan, took rest after two back to back matches and only reserve players practiced on Sunday afternoon. They have bounced back from difficult situations throughout this reason and there's no reason they can't do it again against UP.
 
