MUMBAI:   (45), who allegedly committed suicide at   on Thursday, was serving a life term for the murder of his sister-in-law. A suicide note was found on him.

 Police said he had shared bitter relations with his sister-in-law, Suvarna Kadam, and her husband after they demanded refund of the money they had given him to facilitate securing a job for her. Raote pocketed Rs 80,000 and issued a fake letter of appointment confirming her job with a bank. The fraud was eventually exposed and the Kadam couple demanded a refund. But Raote walked into their home in Kharegaon area of Kalwa on November 20, 2003, and finding Suvarna alone stabbed her to death. He stole her mangalsutra after killing her, said a senior police officer.
 
 
  
 
 He was in jail for 12 years and six months and earned leave six times during his term.
 
 Officials said Raote had come to Mantralaya to submit a letter to the home department pleading that injustice had been meted out to him and that his jail term be reduced. "In the letter, he also mentioned that he had nearly served his full jail term and that his sentence be reduced. He said after the incident, his life was destroyed, all his family and friends were taken away from him and he was left alone," said an official. He had dashed off a similar letter to the Chief Justice of India.
 
 Raote reached Mantralaya at 5:30pm and jumped around 6pm. He was taken to the nearby St George hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Eyewitnesses said a loud noise was heard and when people realized that someone had fallen, all rushed towards him. He fell in the central quadrangle inside Mantralaya.
 
 Opposition leader Dhananjay Munde and NCP leader Ajit Pawar were the first to reach Mantralaya post the tragedy.
 
 When Harshal's personal belongings were checked by police officials, they found that his wristwatch and phone were in working condition despite the fall from such a height. Police recovered his wallet, which had Rs 10,000 in cash. Cops used his phone to call his father, whose number he had saved as "dad". DCP Zone-I Manoj Sharma said they used his phone to call his father, Suresh Raote, who apprised them of his murder convict status. His father (77) runs a masala shop in Chembur.
 
 "We have found the letter he gave to the home department seeking waiver of of the remaining years of his sentence," said Sharma. He added there is a desk in the home department that looks at such applications.
 
 Raote spent time in prison since 2004 and was sent to Paithan open jail in 2014, where convicts with good behaviour are sent. "He was granted furlough on January 10 for 28 days and Thursday was the last date of his leave," said Bhushan Upadhyay, additional director-general of police, prisons.
 
 Higher and technical education minister Vinod Tawde said, "CCTV footage will be examined to see what exactly happened." On Wednesday, one Avinash Shetye had tried to immolate himself but was stopped. 
 
 (Inputs from Nishikant Karlikar & Mateen Hafeez)
 
 
