MUMBAI: Peace in  , the idyllic district 73km from Mumbai famous for its papayas and paddy fields, lay shattered as the Lok Sabha by-election campaign entered the final, and shrill, phase last week. The three-week campaign ended on Saturday. Nearly 17 lakh voters will have to brave excessive heat to vote here on Monday. 

 The combat between BJP and Shiv   turned more bitter on Saturday, with CM   terming an audiotape featuring him released by Sena president Uddhav Thackeray as “twisted.” The Sena had alleged the CM had asked BJP activists to win the bypoll by hook or crook. Fadnavis alleged that Sena had edited the clip and said he w as ready to face action if what he had said in it was found inappropriate. Sena has put up late BJP MP Chintaman Wanga’s son Shriniwas as its candidate, upsetting BJP. Polling for another LS seat in the state -- Bhandara- Gondia in Vidarbha – is also scheduled for Monday. 
 
  
  
 Both Fadnavis and Uddhav extensively toured Palghar district which has two faces: adivasi hamlets nestled amid high trees and mountains, and towers in Vasai and Virar. At a rally on Friday, Uddhav, stridently critical of Fadnavis through the campaign, had played the tape on the microphone. In it the CM purportedly cites the mantra of ‘saam, daam, dand, bhed’ while urging BJP workers to win the poll. Fadnavis, on Saturday, released a 14-minute audio clip, claiming it was the complete version of the “twisted” clip released by Sena. “The Sena can see it is losing and has thus stooped to such levels. 
 
 The Sena twisted my audio clip and presented it before people to misguide them. Iwill myself submit the full clip to the Election Commission,” the CM said in a rally in Vasai. “My last sentence in the clip was that we are in power, but we will never misuse it. This line they never released,” he added. While BJP and Sena traded allegations, the Hitendra Thakur- led Bahujan Vikas Aghadi (BVA) seemed geared for a quiet comeback, said analysts. The   and Communists too are in the fray. The Palghar bypoll will redefine BJP-Sena equations ahead of the 2019 general elections, analysts said. In case Sena wins, Thackeray may ask his ministers to walk out of the ruling alliance, they added. Losing Palghar may be a setback for the CM. Should BJP retain the seat, the CM, said a BJP functionary, will be “ruthless” with the Sena. Many fear violence in the run-up to voting day. “You never know what will happen on Sunday. There is a lot of bad blood between BJP and Sena,” said Ramesh Gowari, a Manor resident. Many think money will play a role.
 
 On Friday, Sainiks claimed to have caught BJP activists distributing cash. BJP MP Chintaman Wanga’s death in January has caused the Palghar bypoll. While BJP seemed in no hurry to take the Wanga kin into confidence, Uddhav offered the Sena nomination to Shriniwas, the late MP’s son. This came as a jolt to BJP, and Fadnavis cajoled ex-Congress minister   into joining BJP and offered him the party ticket. “It’s a hilarious situation. BJP is seeking votes for an ex-Congress minister for an LS seat held by the late BJP MP whose son has joined Sena. Shriniwas knows nothing about the Sena, and Gavit is unaccustomed to BJP’s ideology and style of functioning,” said Archis Patil, an engineering graduate from Palghar. 
 
 “Neither BJP nor Sena have discussed the district’s development,” Patil added. “BJP and Sena are trading charges. But we talk of development -- for instance, the Dahanu- Nashik railway line, an administrative head office for Palghar, and distribution of cooking gas through pipes,” said Thakur. With 3 of 6 assembly seats under BVA’s belt, Thakur is optimistic of wresting the seat. Rampant urbanisation has triggered migration, mostly from North India, to the Vasai- Virar belt. BVA, which controls the Vasai-Virar civic corporation, has pinned its hopes on the two suburbs. BJP is playing the Modi card. “We are confident of winning. 
 
 The poll outcome will prove people’s faith in the leadership of Narendraji Modi, Amitji (Shah) and Devendraji Fadnavis,” said Parag Alavani, BJP MLA from Vile Parle. The BJP has roped in its city MLAs and corporators. Ashish Shelar, Mumbai BJP president, has been camping in Palghar for two weeks. “BJP’s win will be a precursor to our victory in 2019,” Shelar said. UP CM Yogi Adityanath, Union minister Smriti Irani and ex-CM Prithviraj Chavan too campaigned in Palghar. “Terrible heat will be a deterrent. Voting will not rise above 40%,” said a Sena activist.
