KOLKATA: Your milkman, plumber and others from the city’s   are now becoming a spot of bother for Kolkata Police. As the recent Bhowanipore robbery proved, these people who do not exactly fall in the domestic help category — but whose services are essential — are increasingly getting involved in crime. And as of now, Kolkata Police has no measure to counter them.

 “A milkman delivers to hundreds of houses, as does a laundry man. It is not possible to track down each house with which he is in business. So far we had to contend with maids, drivers and security guards tipping off robbers. Now, even those with limited access to the family are aiding criminals,” said an officer. 
 
 An IPS officer at Lalbazar said they are studying the modus operandi of Gholam  , the milkman arrested for tipping off a Howrah-Bihar gang that robbed the Aggarwals in Bhowanipore. Mostafa, a resident of Port area, had agreed to help gang leader Mohd   as they both come from the same village in Bihar.
 
 “Mostafa was not even offered a particular percentage of the loot. He was promised a “good return” based only on his information. “Mostafa had sold milk to   family for several years. But had stopped two-and-a-half months ago. He took the accused to the spot twice to conduct recce. During questioning, Shamim told interrogators that he had sought help from another Girish Park milkman to target the house of a Bowbazar-based businessman. 
 
 Last year, Gariahat police station had cracked the case of a daylight robbery at the residence of two elderly women at Rashbehari Avenue on Panchami morning. Five persons, including a water carrier, were arrested in this connection. The information about the women living alone was provided by Arpan Shikari, who sold water to the victims. Sisters Mahua and Rita Ghosh, both in their 70s, were tied up after being threatened with knives as the five-member gang made off with Rs 23,000 in cash, three small bags full of coins and three gold bangles.
 
 “As we took over the investigation, our suspicion fell on Arpan Shikari, the water carrier, as the gang had entered the house immediately after he left the house after a delivery,” said Oindrila Roy, assistant commissioner of police (south). 
 
 “We have now asked our beat officers to create a list of these men operational within their area. The idea is to use them as our own eyes and ears so that we can keep tabs on criminals who may try to use them,” said an officer-in-charge of a city police station.
 
 Police advise households — especially those that have elderly members — to remain on their guard when these men are around. “Unlike servants, they do not have full access to the house. Care should be taken that personal family information, like income details or travel itinerary, is not shared in front of them,” said a detective department official. 
 
 
