CHANDIGARH: In   7% farmers have operational landholding of more than 10 hectares. The Land Ceiling Act stipulates maximum permissible irrigated landholding of seven hectares, while for minimum support price (MSP) calculations, data of operational landholding is collected based on 10 hectares.

 While industry representatives have suggested a model of direct transfer of benefits wherein the upper layer can be kept out, official sources said the government does not intend to leave out any section of farmers at this stage.
 
  
  
 
 As per the tariff order of   (PSERC), the power subsidy bill of Punjab is likely to cross Rs 10,000 crore in the current fiscal. According to estimates, total subsidy is Rs 7,598.10 crore, including previous year arrears of Rs 1,233.61 crore.
 
 “We have suggested that the Land Ceiling Act be amended to stipulate a ceiling of 10 hectares, owned by a farmer or the leased operational landholding. This will help in synchronisation of collated data for MSP calculation for formulation of farmers’ welfare schemes such as direct credit to their accounts,” said  , advisor-economic sector, Punjab committee, PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
 
 Punjab has around 70,000 farmers with landholding of more than 10 hectares and 2,99,000 with land holding of two to 10 hectares. Industry representatives suggested that farmers having operational landholding of more than 10 hectares not be held eligible for any financial assistance in consideration of the limitations specified in the Land Ceiling Act.
 
 There’s an ongoing debate about the need to re-evaluate benefits to farmers from farm subsidies of around Rs 9,000 crore budgeted towards free electricity, water, irrigation and procurement. These subsidies are not taken into account while calculating MSP for procurement under the public distribution system (PDS).
 
 “The government has taken a step towards direct transfer of benefits to farmers but opposition parties have been giving the impression that the government wants to scrap subsidy. It is a sensitive issue and needs to be looked into from all aspects,” said an official.
 
 
