The highlight of   2018-19 is the assurance to farmers that they would get, for all crops, a minimum support price that is 50% higher than cost of production.

 This will apparently deliver a big benefit to farmers. Besides, farmer producer organisations have been exempted from direct taxes. Farmer organisations across the nation had agitated against their stressed conditions, particularly after demonetisation. The   elections revealed the political implications of their angst.
 
  is a risky business — far riskier than industry. Twice every year farmers initially face a production risk and then a price risk. They need risk-mitigation instruments, modernisation, better logistics to integrate with consumers and more. 
 
 An assured 50% return on cost does not help in any of these directions. It probably eliminates the risk of losses, but its collateral damage will be to ruin agricultural markets that discover prices.
 
 While the assurance to farmers has overtones of political expediency, its economic outcomes can be interesting in the short run if the government delivers a handsome increase in income to farmers. The increase, however, is not very clear as it depends upon the method of calculation.
 
 If, and it's a big if, the intention of the government is to make big transfers to the farmers for political gains, then corporates can expect good demand growth from the rural sector during 2018-19. 
 
 If monies reach the farmers in time, the multiplier effects could play an effective role in triggering a revival. A half-hearted or delayed implementation would render the scheme ineffective. It will then be seen as a mere election-winning slogan or a jumla.
 
 The Budget, in general, is somewhat expansionary. The 13.8% increase in central government expenditure (Budget estimate, or BE, over BE) after a 15% (revised estimate, or RE) growth in the current year will help in expanding aggregate demand, which is the need of the day. 
 
 A more aggressive growth of, say 20%, could be a much better antidote to the sluggish economy.
 
 During the first three years of   sarkar, expenditure grew at single-digit rates, averaging over 7% a year. In comparison, the average growth during 2004-05 through 2013-14 was 13.5% per annum with a peak of 24.5% during 2008-09.
 
 Almost all discussions regarding GST have been around its implementation and rates. But its benefit is in a fall in the effective tax incidence.
 
 GST removes the cascading impact of indirect taxes. Its introduction is supposed to reduce the final indirect taxes we pay. Budget 2018-19 does not show any such impact. The tax/GDP incidence is expected to rise from 11.2% in 2016-17 to 11.4% in 2017-18 and to 12.1% in 2018-19. From an aggregate demand perspective, this ratio has to decline. Compliance is a different story.
 
