PATNA: The Patna meteorological centre on Wednesday forecast light showers at isolated places in the state over the next two days and predicted slight fall in the maximum temperature around the weekend.

 “A cyclonic circulation lying over Jharkhand and adjoining   is expected to bring some relief in the form of light showers in isolated areas of Bihar over the next couple of days,” a Met official said. 
 
 The maximum temperature in Patna on Tuesday was recorded at 40 degrees C, which was three notches higher than the corresponding normal. Weathermen, however, predicted slight respite around the weekend owing to easterly winds dominating the lower level of atmosphere. Being moist, easterly winds lead to moisture incursion which, in turn, obstructs solar rays to penetrate the lower level of atmosphere. 
 
  (IMD) stated that maximum temperatures were likely to rise by 2 to 4 notches over major portions of northwest, northern plains and central India and by 1-2 degrees C over west India during next two days. “The daily maximum temperatures are likely to remain above normal by 2-3 degrees C over eastern parts of central India over the next two days,”   report stated.
 
 Central University of South Bihar’s (CUSB) department of environmental science’s associate professor and Indian Meteorological Society’s secretary for Bihar, Pradhan Parth Sarthi said the present hot weather was ideal condition for a good rainfall during upcoming monsoon. “The northeastern states and east India, including Bihar, may experience monsoon slightly below normal level. La Niña condition over the central equatorial Pacific region that may continue till May can be one of the reasons for it,” he said. 
 
 Private weather agency   also predicted rainfall slightly below normal for east and northeast India. “The region contributes the maximum amount of share in the countrywide rainfall during monsoon. It records 1438mm of rain during the four-month season that accounts for 38% of the total rainfall. This year, however, the geographical risk remains high for east and northeast India, which may experience rainfall up to 95% of long period average (LPA) this season,” a report from Skymetweather said.
 
 It said east India comprising Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal may see better rainfall than Assam, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura.
 
 
