JAIPUR: Thirteen patients who fell ill after consuming contaminated panipuri in Reodar two days ago have been shifted to Sirohi’s district hospital from the Community Health Centre, Reodar as they were already suffering from pre-existing diseases such as hypertension and anaemia.

 
 Doctors transfused blood to a 10-year-old boy, who was rushed to district hospital Sirohi with diarrhoea and vomiting. “When he was brought to our hospital, he was quite weak due to diarrhoea and vomiting but when we conducted his blood test, we found that he was already suffering from anaemia. Immediately, we transfused one unit of blood as part of the treatment,” said Dr DK Grover, principal medical officer, Sirohi district hospital.
 
 However, health department claimed that when the 13 patients were brought to the hospital, they were serious but are out of danger now. “The patients are undergoing treatment and now their condition has improved. There was a slight concern about their health as they were already suffering from some disease,” said Dr  , chief medical health officer (Sirohi).
 
 He said that more than 70 had fallen ill but all of them have been discharged from community health centre in Reodar and Mount Abu, except patients undergoing treatment in district hospital Sirohi.
 
 Dr Parmar said that now they are spreading awareness in the area to remain careful while eating outdoors. “Our teams are doing rounds in the Paldi area where the incident had occurred in which people suddenly fell ill after consuming contaminated panipuri. They are making people aware that in summers such people who eat unhygienic   are more susceptible to food poisoning, diarrhoea and vomiting,” he said, adding that no more patients have been found suffering from the same symptoms in Paldi and nearby areas.
 
 Late on Saturday night, patients with complaints of stomach pain, diarrhoea and vomiting started arriving at Reodar   and within two hours, the beds of CHC were already occupied by the patients with same symptoms. When health department officials came to know about it, they investigated the matter and found that a 45-year-old panipuri vendor   served contaminated panipuri to the people.
 
