NOIDA: The Noida traffic committee set up by the state government has completed a comprehensive traffic management plan for the city on Tuesday. The aim of the plan is to streamline vehicular movement across the city and reduce congestion on roads.

 Identifying three levels of solution for the management of traffic, the committee appointed by a three-member ministerial panel — urban housing and development minister  , industries minister Satish Mahana and minister (independent charge) of cane development and sugar mills Suresh Rana — has compiled a report which will now be forwarded to the state government for final approval before it is implemented.
 
 According to officials,   chief   had on November 2017 finalised the staggered plan on short, medium and long-term measures. 
 
 Tandon heads the committee, whose members include the district magistrate, senior superintendent of police, the regional transport officer of   and Ghaziabad, additional CEOs of Noida and Greater Noida and SP (traffic).
 
 The revamp plan includes new traffic signals, foot overbridges, underpasses and elevated roads, an official explained.
 
 According to the proposal, the plan will be implemented in three stages once the state government approves it. In the first stage, which will be rolled out in the first six months, important intersections will be provided with free left turns, school buses will not be allowed to park outside the premises, railings located at central verges in the city will be raised to deter jay walkers, stop lines and direction boards will be repainted, and bus stands will be built.
 
 In the second stage, which will be completed between six months and two years, 20 new traffic signals and 40 new traffic blinkers will be installed across the city. For pedestrians, 16 more foot overbridges (FOBs) will be built across strategic locations. There is also a proposal for construction of additional multi-level parking facilities for 13,000 vehicles, besides bus shelters.
 
 In the third stage, underpasses and FOBs will be built at sectors 51, 71, 49, 47, Mamura crossing and along the   expressway near Sector 148. Elevated roads will also be built between sectors 19 and 56, along the Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera (DSC) road, Sector 49 and Noida Special Economic Zone (NSEZ) and above Shahdara drain, between Chilla regulator in Delhi and Master Plan Road 3. 
 
 
