NEW DELHI: Former India captain Kris Srikkanth believes that   has had a profound impact on a   squad which many had doubted headed into  , both tactically and as a wicketkeeper-batsman. 

 
 
 Ahead of today’s   v   clash in the Eliminator at Eden Gardens, Srikkanth backed the home team to win. 
 
 “The manner in which Dinesh Karthik has rallied his troops and also led from the front, is the biggest success story of the IPL, in my opinion. His exuberance might mask the fact that the Tamil Nadu lad has been a part of the Indian team for close to 14 years. Karthik has proved there is no substitute for experience,” wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs, in today’s TOI. 
 
 “Kolkata finished a creditable third in the points tally, thanks to them discovering the near perfect team combination. Karthik might have arrived at this by a trial and error method but that should not taking anything away from him for backing his instincts,” wrote Srikkanth. 
 
 “Karthik is KKR’s top run getter with 438, an average of close to 55 and an strike rate hovering at 150, tells the tale. He has taken the responsibility to guide chases. When a captain does this well, it lifts the morale of the team no end.”
 
 Srikkanth identified KKR’s batting depth as a big plus point. 
 
 “One look at their batting order suggests, they have all the bases filled. From a rollicking opening duo to the steady hands of Karthik and Uthappa in the middle to the dashing finisher in Andre Russell, Kolkata looks a side that cannot be written off even if they are to lose a couple of early wickets,” he wrote. 
 
 Rajasthan became the fourth and final team to seal passage to the   2018 play-offs, despite losing their last league match to KKR. They needed Kings XI Punjab to lose to finalists Chennai Super Kings, and without the massively influential Jos Buttler - who reeled off a five fifties in a row to keep them in play-offs contention - Srikkanth did not see many ways in which RR could beat KKR. 
 
 “It would only be stating the obvious that, Rajasthan will miss the dynamic Jos Butler and the all round presence of Ben Stokes. They need to be on top of their game to challenge Kolkata, who look to be in better rhythm. Playing at home gives KKR a vital advantage as well,” he wrote. 
 
 “Rajasthan would be wary of Ajinkya Rahane’s strike rate. The skipper does pull the team down with a sub-120 strike rate. Once the initial push is lost, it will become extremely difficult for the visitors to play catch up. Not one to predict T20 games, but I have to admit, Kolkata go into this one with a massive advantage.”
 
 
