MANALI: With   slowly replacing conventional auto-rickshaws in some routes in Manali, the Himachal government’s move to bring   in the state’s transport sector has started showing both positive and negative impacts.

 The government had introduced four 7-seater electric taxis that ply between Manali town and its surrounding villages. The taxis, which charge lesser fare than auto-rickshaws, have gained popularity since the launch. The demand for taxis is such that auto-rickshaw operators claim their business on the stretch from Manali to famous tourist destination Vashisht has been completely ruined. People prefer to wait for electric taxis for minutes rather than hiring an auto-rickshaw, they claim.
 
 Just four taxis that operate on other routes including Hidimba temple, New Manali and Jagatsukh have also started showing an impact. Worried about their existence, the auto-rickshaw operators of Manali feel they will have to find alternate modes of transport for survival.
 
 Auto-rickshaw union president Moti Ram said they don’t have permission to buy new auto-rickshaws while the government is cancelling permits of rickshaws that older than 20 years. “We have got only 284 auto-rickshaws. Personally, I am not against electric taxis as these were brought in view of the demand of the villagers. Though our business has been affected badly, we should still accept that electric vehicles are transport of the future.”
 
 However, a few auto-rickshaw drivers think that the electric taxis should ply between town centre and places which are at least 10km away. As per the record maintained by the union office, 85 Dalit families are dependent on auto-rickshaws.
 
 Mehar Chand, a driver, said, “The government should think about our livelihood as well. A large production of electric auto-rickshaws can bring its cost down, making them affordable for people like us. Otherwise, the vehicle is very expensive.”
 
 On the other hand, residents in the surrounding villages say they feel relaxed and more connected after the introduction of electric taxis. “These are comfortable, affordable and easily available. Auto-rickshaw drivers charge too much and many times refuse to carry locals and prefer tourists over us for high profit. Their monopoly has now come to an end,” Sohan Thakur, a resident of New Manali, said.
 
 Electric buses are also plying on smaller and larger stretches of Kullu-Manali. Having got an assurance from transport minister Govind Thakur, local taxi operators have not posed any resistance for these buses. They believe that the government will frame a policy keeping in view their rights and livelihood before plying buses on the   road this summer.
 
 Meanwhile,   members on Tuesday met Manali sub-divisional magistrate and requested him to take concrete steps to stop private vehicles from carrying tourists to Hamta pass. Union president Rajkumar Dogra said, “Nearly 120 private jeeps are transporting tourists to snow-covered Hamta pass. Also, tourists are reaching everywhere on rented bikes without caring for their safety. Taxi operators pay passenger tax, but private vehicles are affecting our business. We will launch a protest if the administration fails to stop them.”
 
 
