Slug: Document verification

 Bengaluru: It was a long and tiring wait for around 1,200 medical and dental students at the Karnataka Examination Authority ( ) premises in Malleswaram on Monday as the server crashed before commencement of the document verification process.
 
 The aspiring doctors were accompanied by their parents and relatives for document verification, conducted as part of the centralized and combined counselling for admission to postgraduate medical and dental (degree and diploma) courses for 2018-19. It’s the final step in the counselling process.
 
 “We were told to report at the KEA office at 8.15am as the process was to commence at 9am. We arrived on time and waited. Verification of documents should ideally take anywhere between 8 to 10 minutes and we were hoping to leave early. But the process didn’t start and KEA authorities said the server was down,” said Ramkiran, relative of a medical student from Chennai.
 
 KEA officials had made arrangements to ensure the process was smooth; they had also announced setting up of 60 counters for the purpose. “But none was functional because of technical issues,” said a student. 
 
 “They repeatedly told us the process would start soon but the wait extended to a whopping eight hours,” said an exasperated parent, adding: “I went out and brought lunch while my sister waited in the queue as there was no information on when the process would begin and we didn’t want to take chances. We don’t know why there is so hype about going digital when the IT capital of the country continues to grapple with server-related issues.” 
 
 The problem also affected the travel plans of hundreds of candidates. “We had booked our return flight to Hyderabad at 5.30pm hoping the process would be over by then. But we have been forced to change our travel plans,” said Tarun, a parent.
 
 A KEA official told TOI: “The process is taking longer than usual as the server is down. We are working towards expediting it from Tuesday.” 
 
 Late in the evening, parents even complained of the printer not functioning, due to which they couldn’t get acknowledgement slips.
 
 The aspirants have been divided into different batches (each containing 1,200 students) and the verification for Indian students is scheduled to be held till March 23. The merit list (rank list) will be published at the end of the document verification process.
 
 
