CHANDIGARH: Fifty days after a male   was rescued from Kang village in   district of   from an abandoned 'langaar' hall, the big cat is cooling his heels and awaiting the promised freedom. The decision on when and where to rehabilitate the big cat has got mired in conservation complexities, human intolerance and an intra-department tussle at the highest level. 

 The leopard is under observation in an isolation chamber at Chhatbir zoo's veterinary facility ever since its capture by use of a tranquilising gun on December 25, 2017. The left canine of the leopard suffered a 15% enamel damage in the rescue and transportation process. Apart from this latest addition in the isolation ward, the zoo is over-stuffed with captured leopards and holds 16 in violation of number limits imposed by the Central Zoo Authority of India.
 
 "The wildlife department has adopted a policy to free rescued wild specimens. We had in September 2017 freed a female leopard, which had been captured from Kukanet village in Hoshiarpur. That proved to be a successful release as that female leopard has not come into conflict with humans. However, in the case of this male leopard, two considerations arise. Firstly, whether the leopard can be freed away from the site of capture. The Shivaliks is a good area to release the leopard but it was captured from the plains area of village Kang. Secondly, it has a damaged canine. If the leopard is released and it comes into conflict with humans, it would not be a prudent move. However, I will again review the case after I get the viability report from our Amritsar DFO's office," PCCF (wildlife) Dr Kuldip Kumar told TOI.
 
 The department has sought a field report from the DFO (territorial), Amritsar, R K Gulati, on the viability of the leopard's release. "The leopard was being sighted in winters in Tarn Taran. A year before the leopard's capture from Kang village, a leopard was observed in the same region in the winter of 2016-17. It did not harm anyone then. We cannot release the leopard near the site of its capture at Kang village because there is no big jungle and the habitat is fragmented. The leopard could again come into contact with humans in the disturbed plains area. However, the leopard naturally hails from the Shivaliks and would have come down to the plains a couple of years back. It would be best if the leopard is freed in the Shivaliks in a protected area," Gulati told TOI.
 
 What has mystified wildlife conservationists is the unusual interest in the rescued leopard displayed by PCCF (HoFF) Jatindera Sharma, who "inspected" the big cat at the zoo and is learnt to have termed it "ferocious". Though the zoo and the leopard's fate come under the direct jurisdiction of Dr Kumar, the inspection was carried out without keeping him in the loop.
 
 Kang village is 40 km from the Beas river. Wildlife biologist Vidya Athreya is an official consultant on leopard-human conflicts to the Governments of India, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh and has co-authored a field study on "Leopard presence in Human Use Landscapes of Punjab". Echoing Gulati's observations, Athreya told TOI that leopards should be rehabilitated as near the spot from where they were rescued. 
 
 
