LUCKNOW: Two minors were reportedly raped and a teenager was gang-raped, while another minor was sexually assaulted in the city. In all the four cases, local police allegedly failed to respond to the complaints initially. It was only after the survivors’ families approached higher officials that the cases were registered.

 In a case reported from Maal, two miscreants allegedly held a 19-year-old girl hostage at a remote location and gang-raped her on April 20. However, the FIR in the case was lodged on Thursday following protests by social activists. Police later arrested two people named in the FIR — Vinod and his aide Jagdish. According to the police, the prime accused Vinod developed friendship with the girl and lured her for an outing on April 20. He later took her to a secluded place where his aide Jagdish joined him in the night.
 
 ‘I should’ve kept watch on my girl, police told me’
 
 They held her hostage for two days and repeatedly raped her. The girl somehow escaped and reached home. The survivor’s father claimed that when he went to lodge a complaint at the police station on April 22, the cops shooed him away. Later, with the help of local activists he approached higher officials and the FIR was registered on Thursday, followed by arrests.
 
 In another incident, 28-year-old Satish of Chitauni village in   was accused of luring a 13-yearold girl on Wednesday evening and allegedly raping her at a secluded place. The girl fell unconscious and later was spotted by her parents who were searching for her. A case was registered on Wednesday night and the police arrested the accused on Thursday. The villagers said the accused and his family threatened the survivor’s family of dire consequences if they reported the matter. However, the survivor’s parents met SP (rural) after which the case was registered.
 
 In another incident, reported from   (BKT) police station area, a miscreant identified as   (25) of   lured a 15-year-old girl with chocolates and allegedly raped her after taking her to an isolated place on Wednesday evening. The accused left the girl unconscious after thrashing and threatening her.
 
 Later, the girl gained consciousness and reached home. Her father alleged that police, while holding them responsible for not keeping a watch on the girl, initially refused to lodge a case. Thereafter, he spoke to the pradhan, who spoke to senior officials and a case was registered on Thursday. Police spokesman AK Singh said the miscreant was arrested. Meanwhile, in Chowk, a miscreant identified as Usman was nabbed for sexually assaulting a 13-year-old girl.
 
 SP (rural)   said thatVinod and Jagdish, have been booked for gang rape, while Satish and Mithilesh have been charged with rape and penetrative sexual assault under Posco Act
 
