MUMBAI: The fierce rivalry between   Pvt Ltd and   (SPN) India saw a new chapter on Thursday after television ratings for the inaugural week of the 2018 edition of the   were released.  , the previous broadcast rights holders of the lucrative cricket tournament, said they find it “disappointing” that the current rights holders have presented figures that are only convenient to them.

 
 
 
 Rajesh Kaul, president — sports and distribution — at SPN said: “The   live TV reach All India CS2+ (all India urban and rural) declined by approx 10 million viewers, and the decline in reach across Hindi speaking markets stands at 20% that translates to a loss of approx 35 million viewers. This is disappointing.”
 
 Star’s rivals in the market say their overall ratings in the first week of the IPL have declined from 4.33 to 4.18 and the CS2+ (all India reach for urban and rural) achieved by the IPL this year is 245.7m compared to the 254.8m achieved by Sony in 2017 — marginally 4 percent lower. Sources pointing fingers at Star further say that the latter has added the reach of DD numbers whereas the fact is that there has been a sharp fall in the ratings in northern India.
 
 
 
 Star, however, maintains that the television reach for the opening week stood at 288.4m viewers driven by a 30% increase in reach in the South. The audience demographic, it adds, has registered an impressive 23% growth compared to a year ago. “The television viewership stood at 288.4 million viewers (BARC 2+ U+R) viewers driven by 30% increase in reach in South and a platform reach of 82.4 million viewers on Hotstar. This is the highest ever inaugural week viewership recorded for IPL since its launch,” said Star.
 
 Even Star’s fiercest rivals agree that the broadcaster has done exceedingly well in the South.
 
 Star India Pvt Ltd chairman and CEO Uday Shankar, on his part, is supremely confident of his investment in Indian cricket. “If you’re looking to connect with the audience on a long-term basis on a multi-dimensional platform, cricket is and will remain the key element,” he says.
 
 Shankar, who went ahead and surprised the cricket industry with a collective bid in excess of US$3b over the last six months to procure all Indian cricket rights, says he is “overwhelmed” at the genuine interest that people have been showing in Star’s investment. “I really want to thank them for taking so much interest in what we’re doing,” he told TOI.
 
 BCCI sends SOS to I&B ministryEver since Star picked up the IPL rights for a massive US$2.55b (Rs 16,347.5 Cr) in September last year and followed it up with the Rs 6138 crore worth BCCI bilateral rights this month, the onus has been on the newly-acquired India arm of Walt Disney — through their takeover of 21st Century Fox — to justify the money spent on buying these rights.
 
