CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh police submitted the chargesheet in the infamous   ambulance scam to Chandigarh district court on Wednesday. The matter is adjourned till February 9. It was submitted in the court of civil Judge Jagmeet Singh and the matter is adjourned for February 9.

 Running into around 3,500 pages, the chargesheet, submitted to the court of civil judge Jagmeet Singh, has been filed against 11 accused, out of whom, one was declared a proclaimed offender last year. The accused have been identified as transporters   alias  ,  , security guards Vinod Kumar (41),   (34) and Gurkirpal Singh aka Kala (40), bodypackers Ashwani (38), Tirathpal (34), and   (34), and the mortuary attendant Vicky (35) and Arun, Suliman, Avtar, private ambulance driver Fauji, who is also a transporter. Fauji was also declared a proclaimed offender in December 2017.
 
 The challan has been filed under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc., with intent to commit forgery punishable otherwise), 384 (punishment for extortion) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused. There are 66 witnesses in all, including PGI staff, persons from the  , who drove some of the ambulances, inspectors among others. Police have also submitted call records as main evidence, which also runs into a total of 1,500 pages.
 
 The organised ambulance racket, in which gang members forcefully charged exorbitantly high travel prices from the kin of the patients and the deceased, was busted in May, 2016.
 
 In the absence of any board with information about the PGI’s ambulance service, attendants of the patient used to hire illegal ambulances that charged Rs 30 per km against the approved rate of Rs 9 per km. For service in Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali, the illegal ambulance gang charged anything between Rs 2,000-Rs 3,000 for a trip, while the right rate was Rs 300. If the dead body was to be taken within a distance of 100 km, the family of the deceased was told to pay Rs 4,000, instead of charges per km. PGI’s bodypackers and mortuary staff were paid anything between Rs 200 and Rs 500, while security guards were paid at the rate of Re 1 per km.
 
 It was also stated that kingpins, Fauji and Satti, were also given Rs 5,000 per month by the taxi unions, which had tied up with them for providing them ambulances for transporting bodies from PGI.
 
 Modus operandi of the racket
 
 Following a set modus-operandi, gang members used to park their illegal ambulances near the emergency ward, ATC and the mortuary. Lower staff involving private security guards, mortuary and sweepers appointed in these three departments tipped-off the drivers about the arrival of critical patients and departure of bodies. Parking of vehicles, including private and government near and outside emergency and ATC is not allowed, but the gang members were enjoying the facility at the behest of the employees of private parking contractors.
 
 Challan filed under sections
 
 The accused have been booked under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 473 ( making or possessing counterfeit seal, etc., with intent to commit forgery punishable otherwise), 384 (punishment for extortion), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 
