Kolkata: Friday turned out to be the season’s worst polluted day in Kolkata, with PM 2.5 count shooting past the 400 mark, much worse than Delhi’s count which remained below 300. The pollution was visibly high since early morning with a thick, greyish-white layer of haze and dense smog lowering visibility, leaving citizens gasping for breath.

 Smog, experts warn, is not an innocuous layer of smoke but a collection of harmful particulate matter, mostly carbon, polycyclic acetyl hydrocarbons, water vapour and sometimes lead and sulphur dioxide, triggered by increased vehicular pollution. The overcast sky — the result of a cyclonic circulation in neighbouring Bangladesh — made the day extremely gloomy.
 
 The PM2.5 count at the American Consulate air-quality monitoring station started registering the declining air quality since Thursday night. Around 9pm on Thursday, the count had crossed the 300 mark to enter the ‘hazardous’ level. Since then, it kept rising and around noon touched 446, which is 7.5 times the permissible limit. 
 
 Even though the state pollution control board does not recognise the one-station figure of the American Consulate air-quality monitoring station as being representative of the city’s ambient air quality, it certainly indicates the trend, particularly when PCB has kept its automatic air quality monitoring stations shut.
 
 With the ground radiating heat faster in winter, the cooler and heavier air hangs low, trapping particulate matter that can’t escape the dense haze. Smog starts forming after 8 pm and turns the densest between 3 am and 4 am. It lasts till about 8am the next day, provided sun rays dissipate it, said a NEERI scientist.
 
 Such pollution causes serious aggravation of heart or lung diseases and premature mortality in persons with cardiopulmonary disease and the elderly. This is why, doctors feel, morning-walkers and kids headed for school in the morning are more at risk than the rest. “Particles trapped in smog are often the most harmful. Carbon, for instance, goes straight into the lungs, which is disastrous for the elderly,” said Dr Debasis Bose, a cardiologist.
 
 Smog, however, doesn’t comprise only the fine particulate matter, PM 2.5. “It might contain bigger PM 10 particles as well but the threat comes from a mix of harmful particulate matter. PM 2.5 poses the biggest threat, as they go straight into the lungs and can’t be blocked by the body’s defence mechanism,” said Sudipta Bhattacharya of Saviours and Friends of Environment (SAFE), a green NGO.
 
 Though a combination of environmental factors is responsible for smog, emission from diesel vehicles is the main cause. 
 
 
