JODHPUR: Bagoda ki Dhani in   village, a nondescript rural settlement in Jodhpur district, has caught the attention of national media for the last two days.

 The spot came into media glare after a court here convicted and sentenced actor   Khan in the 20-year-old blackbuck poaching case.
 
 It was at this place that Salman hunted down two blackbucks on October 1-2, 1998, followed by a long legal battle.
 
 Years ago, the   settlement was a traditional ‘dhani’ (hamlet), with only 1-2 ‘pucca’ houses, belonging to the family of eyewitnesses, Poonam Chand and Chhogaram. It has completely transformed with the passage of time.
 
 The traditional thatched huts have given way to plush and spacious two-storey buildings, scattered around, and almost every house has at least one semi-luxury four-wheeler. Youth here can be seen moving around on swanky sports bikes costing Rs 1 lakh and more.
 
 But amid all this transformation, the spirit of the Bishnoi community in protecting the wildlife and environment has continued undiminished.
 
 Like their ancestors, the youth too have vowed to preserve and protect the wildlife and environment.
 
 “It’s a part of our identity, which we imbibe right from our childhood,” said one Mahendra Bishnoi.
 
 For them, trees and animals are to be revered. The community has a history of sacrificing 363 persons, led by one Amrita   and her two daughters, to protect ‘khejadi’ trees.
 
 “Even today, we will sacrifice our lives to save trees and antelopes such as ‘chinkaras’ and blackbucks, which are abundant here,” Bishnoi said.
 
 He said that the community does not leave any antelope carcass around to decay in the jungle and bury them properly with cerement, a cloth used for wrapping the corpse.
 
 The community has groups of volunteers who spring to action if they get any information on poaching or hunting.
 
 Every member of these groups is trained to discharge their duties, right from catching poachers to providing medical aid, transporting injured animals, dealing with the forest department and administration and exerting pressure to take appropriate action.
 
 Secretary of the   said that they hold meetings at regular intervals to address vital issues and pursue them on the field.
 
 It was this spirit of the community that helped eyewitnesses to firmly stick to their accounts in the legal battle against Salman and finally get him convicted in the crime.
 
 
