MYSURU/HOSKOTE/MALUR:   president   and chief minister   on Monday took the poll battle into the   camp, attacking PM   over his “costly” sartorial tastes, hollow rhetoric and tendency to launch personal attacks on his rivals.

 
 Turning the tables on BJP, which had accused him of accepting a Hublot watch as a gift from a proclaimed absconder, the CM sought to know from where the PM got his costly suit, and if he had paid income tax towards it.
 
 The CM told reporters in Mysuru: “It looks like he is scared of me. That’s why he is targeting me. In a way, he is campaigning for me.” He said he is upset with Modi for stooping so low.
 
 On the Hublot watch row, Siddaramaiah said: “Yes, I got it as a gift. It was given to me by Dr Varma, who filed an affidavit about it with the Anti-Corruption Bureau. He produced bills and told them it was purchased in Dubai. What more evidence is required? It is a non-issue but the BJP is seeking to use it as the party doesn’t have any other election issues.”
 
 Lashing out at Modi for his “hollow rhetoric”, Rahul told an election meeting in   town, Bengaluru Rural, that the PM has no poll issue for Karnataka and is just indulging in personal attacks against him, Siddaramaiah and Mallikarjuna Kharge. “Modi cannot talk about corruption because he is surrounded by corrupt people like Yeddyurappa and Reddy brothers. He cannot talk about farmers since his government has not waived farm loans. He cannot talk about Dalits since his people are responsible for Rohit Vemula’s suicide and atrocities against Dalits. So he is resorting to personal attacks against me,” Rahul said.
 
 Rahul said his party would waive farm loans across India within 19 days, if it comes to power in the Centre in 2019.
 
 Rahul said his party will see to it that nobody in Karnataka goes without shelter and will build 5lakh houses in the next five years if it wins the assembly polls.
 
 He also promised 33% reservation for women in government jobs. “Five years ago, we had promised that we will ensure no one goes hungry in the state, and we fulfilled the promise. Now, our promise for the next five years is to create one crore new jobs,” he said.
 
 “There are three modes in a phone... the first is the work mode, second speaker mode and the third, airplane mode. Modi only uses speaker and airplane mode and not the work mode,” he said.
 
 “JD(S) has to clarify whether its ‘S’ stands for Secular or Sangh Parivar. The elections are a fight between Congress ideology that respects Basavanna’s philosophy and the communal ideology being propagated by BJP and Modi,” Rahul said.
 
 Rahul’s poser, though, surprised JD(S) leaders. A JD(S) leader said: “Rahul’s question comes as a surprise because only a fortnight ago he called us the B-team of the BJP. Now he is doing a U-turn and trying to woo us.” The CM, too, ridiculed JD(S) chief H D Kumaraswamy over his claims that he will go with the party that approves his party’s manifesto. “So now he is not the king? Has he become kingmaker,” he asked.
 
 
 
 
 The Congress alleged that Modi didn’t give Mallikarjun Kharge the post of opposition leader in the Lok Sabha, as he was a Dalit. In retaliation to Modi’s claim that the Congress had not given due respect to President Ram Nath Kovind, AICC spokesman Anand Sharma said, “The PM and BJP are anti-Dalit. It is because Kharge is a Dalit that the PM did not give him the post of LOP, despite a big BJP victory in the 2014 elections.”
 
