TRICHY: Class XII students should not feel let down if they don’t clear National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET UG) but must start thinking of good alternative courses, stated dean at K A P Viswanatham Medical College, Dr G  , in   on Saturday.

 Speaking at a career counseling session, L’ Orientation Professionnelle, for Class XII students organised by   ( ), chief guest, Dr Anitha urged them to always have suitable alternatives in case they do not get an admission in their preferred course or college. She stated that those who might not be able to clear NEET exam, should not feel let down, and instead they should focus on other disciplines, which are quite similar to the domain. “Medicine is not the only option that students have. Courses like biomedical sciences, pharmaceutical sciences, life sciences and more also have ample opportunities,” she said.
 
 The doctor also asked students to lay emphasis on developing other extracurricular skills simultaneously and said that they should not hesitate to switch fields if their passion lies elsewhere. “A person, who might have been a B Com graduate, can even take up French language as specialisation in the future, if he/ she has a passion in it,” she stated.
 
 On the other hand, joint director/ project director of Trichy District Mission Management Unit, Tamilnadu State Rural Livelihood Mission, P Babu, the other chief guest, said that students must take inspiration from real life personalities like late former president A P   on how they led their life and should follow accordingly.
 
 Meanwhile, in an interactive session with the students, former vice principal of St Joseph’s College, G Balakrishnan, the key speaker, asked the students to inculcate the practice of unlearning as much as they focus on knowledge acquiring. “In this ever changing world, one should not just focus on learning everyday but also must keep unlearning,” he advised the students.
 
 JOSH is the alumni association of St James Matriculation Higher Secondary School. The association, which has been in existence for the past eight years, organised the career counseling session in order to give Class XII students an understanding of various education disciplines and about the opportunities that are available -- apart from in engineering and medicine -- through courses like agriculture, arts, media and more.
 
 
