NEW DELHI: For a young man in his early twenties,   had big dreams which he backed with hard work. He wanted to build a big house for his family and a   for himself and was working most of the time, say his friends.

 When he was not busy with his wedding photo-shoots, he shot prank and music videos. He had a   channel called ‘Awaara Boy’ where he uploaded these videos. His friends say his videos had become very popular as these were centred around common issues. Neighbours say that not only did Ankit participate in community functions like Ganpati Visarjan but also filmed those events.
 
 Fond of acting, Ankit appeared in the videos and edited them as well at his makeshift studio. His friends said he had been looking for a break in modelling and acting and hoped that his YouTube channel would help him accomplish his dreams. Through Friday, his friends shared their memories on facebook. One Rohan wrote: “Bhai I am still waiting for you to leave for the gym. I know it’s a bad dream...prove me wrong...”
 
 Ankit’s facebook account had photographs of his occasional shoots. “He had dreamt of making it big in Bollywood as well. A few months back, he had met a director with his portfolio. He was a big fan of Shraddha Kapoor and Emraan Hashmi films,” recalled his cousin, Bhavna. Interestingly, he comes across as a restless soul, who was also attracted to a career in the army or police.
 
 Relatives recall that at times his father would be angry with him for being too busy with his work. “He would skip studies to go for modelling and photography assignments and my uncle used to scold him. At the end of the day, he would hand over the earnings to his mother,” said a relative.
 
 He was also passionate about body building and his new bike which he had bought with his savings. Most of his facebook posts showed him at the gym or on his bike. “He would rarely allow anyone, except his parents to touch the bike,” said Bhavna.
 
 His friend, Rinku, like many others, was preparing for a candle march in his memory on Saturday.
 
 
