THANE: The   ( ) is actively considering to introduce self-driven air-cooled  , a high capacity alternative to the modest auto rickshaws, for connecting point-to-point commuters in the city. 

 A network of pod cars, resembling a mobile glass capsule, will be spread across the city, especially linking far off localities with major junctions, including the proposed metro stations and the mass rapid transport route.
 
 It is learnt that the initiative called Personal Rapid Transit system (PRTS) will have cars that operate on dedicated fibre tracks laid across the designated routes.
 
 These cars will have a capacity to accommodate nearly four to six people and will be centrally controlled and operated thus ruling out the need for a driver. 
 
 A proposal for introducing this initiative on city roads was put before a joint meeting between TMC and the   (MMRDA) officials last week, who will now analyse its feasibility for operations. The facility seems like an extension of the air-conditioned pod car concept that was being thought of by the planners for Thane city a decade ago. The capsules will move at 50-80 km/hour within the city. 
 
 The facility is being worked out as part of easing the transport issues being faced by Thane residents. The cars will easily take on the load of two autos operating in the city and provide commuters with air cooled comfort, said a civic official.
 
 Presently, the roads witness massive traffic congestions partly due to presence of autos and private cars. 
 
 The civic body is likely to work out its feasibility, cost and also decide its routes by next fortnight.
 
 A section of citizens are of the opinion that the civic body should strengthen the Thane Municipal Transport services which will cut the use of private cars and also cause less pollution.
 
 “There are already several autos and taxis operating in the city. Why the need for more such concepts? The administration should focus on improving the city road lengths and public transport system which can easily wipe off the snarls,” said an activist.
 
 Radhika Kharkar, a Ghodbunder Road resident, said, “Such initiatives will definitely help as one cannot depend on auto drivers and bus services are yet to get better.”
 
 A network of pod cars, resembling a mobile glass capsule, will be spread across the city, especially linking far off localities of the city with major junctions, including the proposed metro stations and the mass rapid transport route. These cars will have a capacity of nearly four to six people and will be centrally controlled and operated thus ruling out the need for a driver
 
 
