The biggest hindrance to any   journey is the odd-hour   your stomach growls with. Initially, these pangs can eat you up since you are trying to control your appetite and follow a regime. But, these should not prolong for a long time as they can break your weight loss process. Here are 10 tricks to deal with hunger pangs: 

 
 
  Water is extremely important to keep your body hydrated. This should purely be done with water and not other liquids such as chaas, nimbu paani or green tea. You need to drink enough water to keep your satiation levels controlled. As per many experts, thirst is often mistaken for hunger. 
 
 
 According to studies, exercising regularly helps suppress appetite rather than increase it. Hunger pangs can be controlled with the help of regular exercising. 
 
 
  Chewing gum helps you take off your brain from binging on unhealthy   items. You are simply tricking your brain into staying away from processed foods which can hamper your weight loss. Going for a zero sugar chewing gum is a great option. 
 
 
 This does not mean that you buy ten protein bars and then eat them every hour. Processed protein bars bring with them refined sugar and taste enhancers to get you addicted. Protein should be consumed in natural forms such as yoghurt, chaach, milk, paneer, chicken, fish, peanuts, chickpeas and vegetables and lentils. 
 
 
 The key point to remember here is to indulge in smart snacking. Snacking is not bad and helps you fuel your body in the best way. You need to complete your calories and this needs to be done in a healthy manner. Snacking in equal intervals is a good option. For example, snacking after 1.5 to 2 hours is ideal as this way you will gradually be able to control hunger pangs. 
 
 
  Hunger pangs mostly occur due to unsatisfactory foods. This means if you have given up on your everyday food and opted for bland vegetables, you are bound to have increased hunger pangs. Stick to your ghar ka khana and you will not have those unwanted odd hunger pangs. Don’t ditch that bowl of dal, rather have it with salad during meal time and you won’t feel odd hunger pangs. 
 
 
 Excessive consumption of refined sugar in the form of processed foods can lead to increased hunger pangs. If you really cannot tame your sweet tooth, opt for natural sugars such as fruits and jaggery. Try and mix your sugar with your meals so that you don’t feel the need to eat them later. 
 
 
  Indulge in mindful and slow eating. Even though your grandmother told you to follow this while you were young, this is actually a very handy trick. Slow eating also leads to satiation. Eventually, your body will start feeling fuller for a longer time even with a reduced appetite. 
 
 
 If you have been skipping meals to lose weight, think again. Breakfast is the most important meal of the day and shouldn’t be ignored at any cost. Not having breakfast can actually lead to weight gain and leave you feeling hungry throughout the day, even if you have a hearty lunch. Feeding nutrients to your body when it’s empty in the morning is important. 
 
 
 If you get hunger pangs despite drinking water and eating properly, it can be due to other medical reasons such as intestinal worms and should be tested right away. Do not ignore this sign. 
 
 
 
