NEW DELHI/VIJAYWADA: The   submitted a notice for a no-confidence motion against the Modi government for its refusal to grant special category status to Andhra Pradesh, the first such move in the tenure of the   (NDA) government, setting the stage for engrossing politics on Friday morning in the Lok Sabha.

 
 Andhra Pradesh chief minister and   boss N Chandrababu Naidu immediately announced support for the motion and YSR   chief Jagan Mohan Reddy is understood to have sought the backing of other opposition parties.
 
 His tally of nine MPs is well short of the 50 required for the motion to be admitted and even TDP’s 16 MPs will not be enough for the purpose.
 
 Political sources, however, did not rule out the possibility of non-NDA parties “fishing in troubled waters” and using the opportunity to set up a debate which, despite the localised issue listed, may allow a wider attack on the Modi government.
 
 The YSR Congress move also seems intended to outgun TDP on the state issue with Naidu having withdrawn his ministers from the Centre.
 
 “We are ready to support the no-confidence motion against the Union government moved by any party if it means discussing many pending issues in the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2016,” Naidu announced in the assembly on Thursday.
 
 With both parties competing to raise the alleged “injustice” to Andhra Pradesh over the terms of the state’s reorganisation for the creation of Telangana, the motion will need the support of other parties like Congress, the Left, NCP, Trinamool Congress and  . This is as yet not clear as the motion deals with a state issue and the NDA, even without the TDP, has a very large buffer in the Lok Sabha.
 
  
  
 
 According to procedure, Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan would ask the YSR Congress floor leader if the party was pressing admission of its motion, in which case at least 50 MPs would need to stand up and support the move. The House needs to be in order for this process to take place and this will require the cooperation of groups, such as AIADMK, that have been disrupting proceedings.
 
 TDP and YSR Congress have been agitating in both Houses over the special status demand and the former has even pulled its ministers out of the central government.
 
 
  
  
 
 The protests, along with those of AIADMK on the constitution of a Cauvery board and other opposition parties demanding the admission of an adjournment motion on the PNB scam, have ensured that Parliament has barely conducted business.
 
 YSR Congress MP Y V Subba Reddy gave the notice to the Lok Sabha secretariat for including the motion in Friday’s list of business. Government sources said the notice would need to be examined but would not make much headway unless a significant section of the opposition supported it.
 
  
  
 
 Jaganmohan Reddy asserted that if the Centre remained reluctant to grant special category status to the state, then all MPs of his party will resign on April 6.
 
 With BJP’s 275 MPs (including two nominated MPs) in Lok Sabha and the party enjoying support of its allies, any no-confidence motion is likely to be defeated.
 
 
