MYSURU: In the wake of financial irregularities at the   in   coming to light, the district administration has decided to introduce the ‘Centralised accounting system’ wherein the temple authorities will have to produce computer generated bills for payments made by devotees for pujas and other services.

 The move by the district administration follows the arrest of a temple employee who allegedly embezzled funds from the temple using fake bills for a host of services.
 
 The district administration has formed a committee under the Sri Chamundeshwari temple executive officer KM Prasad with muzrai department tahsildar SN Yathiraj Sampathkumaran, manager of the Nanjaraja Bahadhur Chowltry S Govindharaju, and executive officer of the Sri Chamundeshwari temple S Nagaraj as members. The panel will come out with a list of measures meant to ring in  , and for computerisation of the billing system.
 
 The panel members studied the manual billing system, and drew up a list of the various pujas and rituals performed at the temple for which a fee was levied – the fee of Rs 30 for special entrance, and Rs 100 for direct entry, were also taken into account. The members also recorded the systems in place for donation of saris, dhotis, gold, silver, etc, by the devotees besides the cost involving in the distribution of prasadam. Following a thorough analysis, the members have suggested to the district administration that implementation of a computerised billing system, and facilities to book services online, including the Girija Kalyana Mahotsava, will usher in transparency.
 
 The members have cited the adoption of online facilities at the Sri Male Mahadeshwaraswamy temple at MM Hills, and the Sri Kukke Subrahmanyaswamy temple in   as examples, and suggested that the model be emulated at Nanjangud. The system, they suggested, ought to include collection of fees for the footwear stand, prasadam too.
 
 In its report, the panel has stated that adoption of such measures will eliminate the role of middlemen, and ensure accountability in the financial dealings of the temple. The committee has also suggested that cashless payment mechanisms be adopted.
 
 Confirming that the panel had submitted its report, deputy commissioner D Randeep said that the recommendations would be implemented in the next three months.
 
 
