NAGPUR: City police crime branch has written to the British High Commission to deport 15 illegal immigrants staying in the UK after reaching there via the human trafficking racket busted recently. The city police are also set to write to the Canadian government, asking it to hand over one of the accused in the same case who is holed up in that country.

 Crime branch is also set to start the procedure for issuing Look Out Circular (LOC) against the absconding accused and illegal immigrants in the case. In future, the investigating agency may also issue ‘Red corner’ notice if required.
 
 Meanwhile, on Monday, crime branch arrested Amarjeet Lubhana, who owns an eatery on Kamptee Road, for his alleged involvement in illegally sending two relatives to UK through Jarnail Singh and Balbir Singh, who have been arrested earlier. Till date, crime branch has arrested 13 persons while some more are expected to be rounded up soon. The cops are now trying to net  , and expect him to reveal more details about the scam.
 
 DCP (crime)   addressed a press conference along with ACP (crime)   and other senior officers of his unit on Monday. He said 22 illegal immigrants have so far returned to the city. “We are now in the process of verifying the roles of the illegal immigrants to ascertain culpability in the case,” he said. It is learnt that some of the illegal immigrants are currently staying in the city while some are in  . “Most of the illegal immigrants were minors when they left the country with the help of traffickers,” he said. Kadam also said some of the travel agents too are under scanner.
 
 Crime branch officials also hinted at the possibility of a deputy commissioner of   being complicit in issuing birth registration certificates, which were later used for issuing fake passports. Some police department personnel too are under the scanner.
 
 Kadam said details of the illegal immigrants in UK and Canada were procured during the interrogation of the accused persons in custody. “We have supplied detailed whereabouts of the 15 illegal immigrants to the British High Commission officials, who had visited crime branch, and sought their assistance to deport them,” said ACP Patil.
 
 The case has picked up pace after details of the passports, visas and other details were furnished by the British High Commission as per the requirement of the crime branch. “Immigration department is also in the process of scrutinizing huge data base of international travel documents and similar details to get more information about the racketeers and the modus operandi they had followed. Our case would be further bolstered once details from the immigration department are received,” Kadam told TOI.
 
 
