Recently,  , a   enthusiast from the city, made   proud by winning the first place in the second edition of the IFA Classic National Pro-AM Championship-Bodybuilding and Fitness, held at Guwahati. What makes her feat special is that of the 13 participants, she was the only   from Tamil Nadu. Ruby, in a chat with us, tell us about the hurdles she faced and how she is addicted to bodybuilding now. 

 Ruby says that she was a pre-school teacher and lived just like any other Tamil woman. “I was married and my life revolved around my family and work.” But an altercation with her husband changed her life. She says, “After a point of time, my marriage was going south. When I confronted my husband, he said, he was not interested in me since I was fat. I would say it’s this body shaming that sowed the health seeds in my mind, and I began to look for fitness and health articles.”
 
 She recalls that all these happened just two years ago. “It was in 2015. Initially, I started walking to reduce weight and I used to walk 10 kms daily. The result was fantastic. In four months’ time, I reduced my weight from 75 kg to 50 kg. That motivated me to take up fitness seriously.”
 
 Though she could not save her marriage, she says that it did not deter her from pursuing fitness. “I joined a gym and trained under different trainers. But when I expressed my desire to take up bodybuilding seriously, there was not much encouragement.”
 
 She says that till she met Mr Karthik, who runs a nutrition factory in Arumbakkam, she was not sure whether she could realise her dream. Ruby says, “Karthik sir understood my passion and the fire in me. He helped me get trained and now, his junior Mr Prasanth, is my trainer.”
 
 Highlighting the importance of diet in bodybuilding, Ruby says, “In the northern and western parts of our country, there is so much awareness on bodybuilding and there are quite a few women bodybuilders, too. They have good sponsorship support and hence, diet and nutrition are not a problem for them. Globally, bodybuilding is a huge sport with active participation from women.” Ruby will be representing India at the NABBA Universe contest which will be held in Singapore in July. She says that she is chilling out this month after the competition and that her practice will start from March. Her only regret is that she is yet to get a sponsor. “I have been funding my training, diet and nutrition, and competitions, all by myself. Sponsorship will really help me concentrate better and reach greater heights,” she says. 
 
 Ruby quit her teaching job to focus on fitness and now, is a fitness trainer for women and teaches zumba. Ask her the one reason that keeps motivating her, she says, “Happiness. I feel happy. I did not have a memorable childhood or teenage. My marriage, too, didn’t last. But after focusing on bodybuilding, my confidence level has improved. But it has never been easy. When I started off, people ridiculed me, saying that I will not be able to sustain my passion. Now that I have won the medal, they are coming back to congratulate me and say sorry for the way they treated me. I have a five-year-old son, and he is super proud of me. He says that for every medal I win, he too wants to win a medal in his school. My mom, brother and family are happy for me. Earlier, they used to worry about me so much, especially when I started going through the rigours of dieting. But this medal has compensated all the suffering.”
 
 Ruby is all praise for her fellow men bodybuilders and says that they have been very encouraging and supportive. “I meet them at competitions and they are very happy to have women bodybuilders. They are very supportive and often praise me for my hard work and determination.” So, does she have a word for the girls out there? “Yes, I want more women to get into bodybuilding. It’s very much achievable and will make them face life with confidence,” she signs off.
 
