NEW DELHI: The call for   by   on Tuesday was largely successful as shops in major markets across the city remained shut. However, a few markets like Sarojini Nagar, Chandni Chowk and Connaught Place opened by the evening. This was the third such shutdown in the past two months.

 Another mega-rally has been announced at Ramlila Maidan on March 28 with traders planning a “jail bharo”  .
 
 The traders also took out funeral processions of “sealing” effigies at 100 places, including the crematorium at Nigambodh Ghat. The protesters demanded an immediate moratorium on sealing till a final solution was found by the Centre.
 
 The head of Chamber of Trade and Industries (CTI), Brijesh Goyal, said that the biggest funeral of sealing will be taken out at Lajpat Nagar on Wednesday. “More than 8 lakh shops were closed on Tuesday,” he added.
 
 While shutters remained down in Karol Bagh, Gaffar Market, Ajmal Khan Road, Azad Market, Fatehpuri, Hauz Khas, South Extension-I, Defence Colony and Kotla, almost 70% of shops in Old Delhi areas like Chandni Chowk and Khari Baoli were closed.
 
 A Vyapari Panchayat was organised in Karol Bagh where all major market associations gathered to chart out their future strategy. The panchayat passed a resolution demanding that Delhi government pass a Bill to stop sealing on the first day of the assembly budget session beginning March 16.
 
 Vinod Bhasin, a jewellery trader, said, “Why are we being treated like criminals and no action is being taken against officials and politicians who allowed these violations? All of them got paybacks.” Yogesh Anand from Khan Market said that human rights of traders and their families are being violated. “We will have to take this fight to the courts as there’s no other way left,” he added.
 
 Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) claimed that the bandh caused business losses worth Rs 1,800 crore and revenue loss of about Rs 150 crore to the government. Besides, working hours of over 20 lakh people went waste.
 
 Secretary general of CAIT, Praveen Khandelwal, said, “The multiplicity of authorities has led to lack of coordination thereby resulting in unplanned development of Delhi. This has also resulted in all three master plans since 1962 failing miserably. The government has failed to develop sufficient commercial space in proportion to population growth.
 
 “An affidavit filed in Supreme Court in 2008 by the urban development secretary stated that the government could develop only 16% of commercial space in Delhi in 40 years,” he added.
 
 Vijay Kumar, who heads South Extension market association, said, “We are not supporting encroachments. Our demand is related to issues revolving around conversion of residential properties.”
 
 A delegation of traders met the urban development minister in the evening. “He assured us that the government will stand by the affidavit filed by DDA in SC and a solution though executive would be found soon,” Khandelwal said.
 
 
