  : With timely publication of results emerging as a major challenge for   ( ) here, its authorities have decided to publish them 40 days after the exam, at best. The results will be published simultaneously and not in a phase-wise manner, as was the case earlier. Therefore, the paper evaluation process has to be completed within 40 days. 

 Sources said the decision was taken at a meeting of the board of management - the apex body of BPUT - on Thursday. It was presided over by Ajay Nayak, joint secretary of skill development and technology. The others members of the board like vice-chancellor C R Tripathy, registrar Parta Sarkar, dean Ajit Panda and senior professors Bimal Sarangi and RK Das too attended the meeting.
 
 The sources said the matter of publication of results was discussed at length. "Earlier, there was a practice of publishing the results in phases since the evaluation of the papers would not be complete within the deadline. But the board strongly disapproved of it," said Tripathy. "We have decided to publish the results after the completion of the evaluation process within 40 days. In case the evaluation of some paper is left, we can take two to three days more for the same and publish the results," he added.
 
 In another major initiative, the board has decided to print the photographs of students appearing for the exam on the answer sheets along with their roll numbers and names. The move aims to bring down instances of proxy students appearing for the examination. 
 
 "Though the admit card bears a photo of the student, some of the them do not bring it to the examination hall. Allowing them to write the test is like inviting proxy students to appear for the test," Tripathy explained. 
 
 "Besides, the board has also decided that the examination dates mentioned in the academic calendar will not be changed under any circumstances," Tripathy said.
 
 Amid the dip in performance over the past few years owing to staff shortage, the board of management has decided to fill up the vacancies of BPUT and all government constituent colleges. "We will put forth our proposal before the governor and efforts would be taken to fill up all those vacancies," Tripathy said. 
 
 "To address the complaints of passouts who have not yet got their certificates, we are going to launch a one-time initiative to clear all backlogs," he assured. "Since these are old issues, we will invite applications of those cases through a public notice and will address them one-by-one within a stipulated time period," he added. 
 
 
