CHANDIGARH: The median on the Sector 37-38 dividing road has become a dangerous spot, for the nearby residents and street dwellers especially. All because the electricity juction boxes in the concrete base of streetlights lie open or without their metal covers. 

 Several poles have metal covers still attached to the junction boxes but have been left open. The thick coils tucked into the box are popping out. The naked live   have created a threat of electrocution. At serveral places, the protective black insulation tape on their bare ends has come off, making it exceedingly hazardous for the safety of the pedestrians. “I think an accident is waiting to happen,” said R.P Bansal, who takes this road everyday to his home in Sector 38.
 
 “These live wires are falling out of the boxes, which can prove out to be very dangerous. What if someone falls on the divider in the dark of night and come into contact with the coils? This should be checked,” said  , a passerby. Of nearly 30 streetlights on the divider, more than 20 had exposed electricity junction boxes.
 
 At some points, the boxes were broken from the brackets, with concrete falling out. At the front of the divider, near the Sector 37-38 roundabout, underground electricity wires stick out of the ground. It has raised the level of an electrocution threat. The wires are connected to the streetlights on the dividers.
 
 The unattended wires have their ends hanging a few inches above the divider’s surface. “I have seen many street children take this road at several points of the day. What if someday, anyone of them comes into contact with any live wire? You never know it might happen in a matter of seconds,” said  , nearby resident.
 
 In the dock
 
 When confronted, municipal corporation senior engineer N P   said: “Even though the wires are coming out of the junction boxes and the ground, I think all the bare ends and joints are taped and none is exposed. As for the repair and restoration of the broken junction boxes and their covers, a contract with the   has been pending for approval this week. Evaluatation is on and once that is complete, we will fix all of these lights across the city.”
 
 
