GURUGRAM: A city-based environmentalist has moved the   ( ) against the “illegal” construction of a   in the ecologically fragile  .

 In his petition filed on Wednesday, Harinder Dhingra has cited a TOI report last month that highlighted the construction of the 3km-long “unauthorised” road through the Aravalis in Sakatpur and Shikohpur villages to connect the area with farmhouses in Bas Pandala and Gairatpur Bas.
 
 “The applicant, while going through an article published by TOI on February 24, 2018, came to know about the construction of a road through the Aravalis in Gurugram’s Shikohpur village. Thereafter, the applicant visited the site and (found out) the public works department is carrying out the road construction work at high pace after cutting trees in the area,” states the petition.
 
 According to Dhingra, the construction of the road is in violation of the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, and the Aravali Notification, 1992. 
 
 “While the PWD claims the road is for the welfare of the public and for providing better traffic movement, the fact is that the road is being built just to benefit the illegal farmhouse owners in Bas Pandala and Gairatpur Bas. In the name of ‘sustainable development’, PWD also attained ‘in principle’ permission from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change. However, it is still illegal as it is cutting into protected area, thereby destroying the rich flora and fauna of the Aravalis,” he claimed.
 
 The 3km stretch starts from the Sakatpur hill junction and ends near a temple. Local residents claimed at least 500 trees were felled to build the road that will eventually be extended to Pandala, 6km away, to connect the area with illegal farmhouses in Bas Pandala and Gairatpur Bas as well as the national highway.
 
 The area was listed as ‘sensitive’ in the 2017 wildlife survey, conducted by Wildlife Institute of India across five districts of Haryana — Gurugram, Faridabad, Mewat, Rewari and Mahendergarh. According to the survey, the area has 14 wild species, including leopard, hyenas, civet cat, jackals and blue bulls.
 
 
