Cinematographer   is making a grand debut through the Mammootty-starrer 
  'Street Lights' and the film is hitting screens on January 26, 2018. Just as always, the megastar's release is one of the much expected films of the week and its trailers and teasers have already got us thrilled. But, the fans have more reasons to watch the film. What are they?

 
 
 Being a cop comes naturally to Mammootty, who has played many memorable police officers in movies like the Sethuramiyer franchise, Inspector  , and more. Will the cop in Street Lights, investigative officer James, be another gem in his list of incredible cop movies? Fans say yes and if you want to check it out for real, January 26 is the day! 
 
 
 
 Mammootty kick-stars the year with 'Street Lights,' though he has many more prestigious projects lined up for the year. Will it offer his fans yet another 'Happy New Year' moment? If so, what more can he offer his fans as a Republic Day gift?
 
 
 
 The film has created a great amount of buzz even before its release as it is an action packed thriller. James is a Crime Branch police officer who faces thrilling events during his pursuit to solve a mystery that makes him to travel to Tamil Nadu. Thrashing goons, sporting sun glasses, blazing guns, it seems to offer everything grant for a holiday release!
 
 
 
 Shamdat Sainudeen who cranked the camera for popular films like   2, Marykkundoru Kunjaadu, Ritu, Kattappanayile Hrithik Roshan, Oozham and Mammootty-starrers Pramani and Venicile Vyapari debuts as a director through this film. The director will himself be wielding the camera for the movie too. Debutant composer   is the music director of the movie.
 
 
 
 
 Street Lights,' is a bilingual, which is also be made in Tamil language.While the Malayalam version of the film has Soubin Shahir and Hareesh Perumana in prominent roles, Pandiraj and Black Pandi will reprise their roles in Tamil. Actress Lijomol Jose plays a prominent female character. Actors Vishnu Unnikrishnan, Dharmajan Bolghatty, Sohan Seenulal, Sudhi Koppa are also part of the cast.
 
 Watch this space for critic review of 'Street Lights'.
 
