MUMBAI: The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Tuesday seized more than seven tons of red sanders worth nearly Rs 3 crore (meant for export to Dubai) and arrested four persons, including  , brother of  , known as the smuggling racket’s kingpin.

 Acting on specific intelligence, DRI’s Mumbai zonal unit, along with Wildlife Crime Control Bureau officials, intercepted two containers at Nhava Sheva port in Navi Mumbai three days ago. They were to be exported to Dubai Jebel Ali port, where they were to sell the consignment for $65 per kg.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The red sanders were concealed in between bags of 42 tonnes of Indian yellow maize, and cuddapah stone slabs. Maize was declared on the shipping bill. Sources said the accused were under the radar for some time. The others arrested, Gaya Chowdary (54), Kamlesh Ghogle (38) and Rohan Awsare (29), have been booked under sections of the Customs Act for smuggling and Indian Penal Code for forging documents pertaining to the export.
 
 Sujit is a habitual offender with offences of smuggling registered against him in 2006. Officials said Sujit was helping his elder brother who was into customs clearing of import-export consignments. In 2002, he was arrested in a cigarette smuggling case and was detained under Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act. They have been booked for smuggling red sanders in 2011, 2015 and 2016.
 
 Officials said the accused would take containers carrying foodgrain to an isolated factory outside Mumbai, where they would be partially de-stuffed and the red sanders would be concealed. They had engaged Awasare, an expert, who would remove rivets and clamps of door handles of the containers, without disturbing the Customs seal. The other two were were involved in procurement, transportation, and concealment of red sanders.
 
 The gang had opened the sealed container by removing rivets on the clamps securing the door handles without breaking the original bottle seal fixed by Customs officials. Awsare was promised Rs25,000 when they took the vehicle to an abandoned factory in Lasangaon, Nashik, where he opened the container and put sander logs inside and rebolted it, covering the logs with maize gunny bags.
 
