CHENNAI : A software engineer from   who worked with an IT firm in Bengaluru plunged 30ft to his death from a ramp for vehicles outside   at 6.30am on Monday.

 Chaitanya Duyyuru, 32, of Vijayawada, who worked as a software developer at   and was waiting for a flight to Bengaluru, hit his head when he landed and sustained multiple skull fractures. He died shortly afterward, an investigating officer said.
 
 
 “Witnesses said Chaitanya had been leaning on the steel railing at the top of the ramp near Gate 4 of the terminal for domestic departures and speaking on a cellphone just before he fell,” the officer said.
 
 Early morning fog partially obscured recordings from security cameras in the vicinity, he said, but the footage appears to show the techie trying to hoist himself backward to sit on the railing, losing balance and falling backward.
 
 The elevated, 1.3km-long ramp allows vehicles with passengers boarding flights to access the terminals for domestic and international departures on the upper floor of the main airport building.
 
 The Chennai airport police are trying to determine if the fall was an accident or if they are probing a case of suicide.
 
 “Chaitanya was carrying a bag containing two debit cards, a second cellphone, an Accenture ID card, two shirts, a pair of trousers and underwear,” the officer said. “We also found some medicines that he appears to have been using.”
 
 
 
 
 Chaitanya had arrived in Chennai from Vijayawada by bus on Sunday to meet a friend, investigators said. He took a cab from Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus at Koyambedu to his friend’s residence near the airport’s cargo terminal, only to discover it locked. He called the friend and found that he had left for  , around 60km south of Puducherry.
 
 “Chaitanya was undecided about what to do and spent a few hours there, before calling his friend again to inform him that he had booked a ticket on a flight to Bengaluru,” the officer said, adding that the techie arrived at the airport around 5.30am and then idled away an hour by walking through the corridors of the domestic terminal.
 
 “Just before 6.30am, he walked out onto the ramp and leaned against the railing. A short while later, he fell to his death,” he said, adding that airport staff members took the software engineer to a hospital nearby where doctors pronounced him dead on arrival. The airport police registered a case under Section 174 (unnatural death) of the CrPC. A police team moved the body to a hospital for autopsy.
 
 Police found a telephone number in Chaitanya’s bag, with which they contacted his father, Janardhana Rao. “Rao and his family members are on their way to Chennai from Vijayawada,” the officer said.
 
 Rao and his family members are on their way to Chennai from Vijayawada, he said.
 
