RAJKOT/SURAT/PALANPUR: At least 35 persons were arrested in Surat and over 500 persons booked for rioting, obstructing traffic and damaging public property across the state as sporadic protests by Karni Sena and other fringe groups against release of film Padmaavat continued on Monday. 

 Nearly 50% GSRTC buses remained off road in north   districts of Banaskantha, Sabarkantha, Mehsana and   following violence over the past two days. The bus services however started returning to normal by Monday evening.
 
 In Surat, police have registered five cases of unlawful assembly against those involved in violent protests that were reported in the city on Sunday evening against the movie Padmaavat. Police arrested at least 35 persons in connection with these cases. Of these seven were arrested from Katargam for vandalizing a city bus and were remanded to police custody for a day by a local court on Monday. These accused belonged to Karni Sena, Mahakal Sena, Bhawani Sena and Surya Sena.
 
 Along with unlawful assembly, the accused were booked for harassing a female cop and assaulting a police inspector in separate incidents.
 
 “Police have weapons and strength to use them if necessary against all those who take law in their hands. I want to inform these groups that they will face stern actions. We have assured the theatre and multiplex owners that we will provide them security if they want to screen the film,” said Satish Sharma, Surat police commissioner.
 
 The multiplex and theatre owners also met Sharma and put forward their concerns. “They have categorically said that they will not release the movie on January 24 or January 25. They are yet to decide about their plans later,” Sharma added. Around 200 persons were booked for rioting in Khambhaliya taluka of Devbhoomi Dwarka after a mob blocked Jamnagar-Dwarka highway by burning tyres. Similarly, over 50 persons were booked for rioting and criminal conspiracy in Jamkondarna taluka of Rajkot after they blocked the Jamkondarna-Dhoraji highway on Monday morning. Another case of rioting was filed against a mob of 30 people in Gondal taluka for burning tyres and blocking roads on Sunday night.
 
 On Monday too, protests were reported from   in Surendranagar where traffic was halted for over an hour by the Karni Sena. In Amreli, many tyres were burnt on the   and on the Una-Amreli highway near   where a group of people from Kathi Darbar community held the traffic for over two hours on Monday. However, nobody was arrested in the case. 
 
 
