KOLKATA: The West Bengal Medical Council ( ) on Thursday suspended the practising licences of two   doctors, charging them with   causing the death of 30-year-old accident victim Sanjay Roy last February. The council has also charged the hospital with “inhuman behaviour”.

 The licence of surgeon Shyamal Sarkar has been suspended for six months, and that of interventional radiologist Usha Goenka for a year. 
 
 Sanjay’s death had brought the patient-hospital relationship under the microscope, and was followed by a spate of negligence complaints. It was also at the heart of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s  , which imposed stiff penalties for medical lapses. 
  
 
 The Dankuni resident, who had suffered an accident, had been brought to the hospital on February 16, 2017 and was shifted to SSKM hospital on February 23, where he died the next day. His family had accused the Apollo authorities of medical negligence and inhuman treatment, saying they had delayed the shift. They alleged the hospital had refused to release Sanjay until they cleared the bill of Rs 7.23 lakh. After the family paid Rs 4.38 lakh, the hospital ask-ed them to submit fixed deposit papers, they alleged. The ensuing furore had forced the resignation of Apollo CEO Rupali Basu.
 
 “The council found lapses on the part of the two doctors,” WBMC president Nirmal Maji said on Thursday. “They did not do enough to stop bleeding even though they had charged for the same. While the patient had suffered massive internal bleeding, they kept insisting that there was no internal bleeding,” he added.
 
 The council has been hearing the case for the past three months. While Sarkar was responsible for the overall treatment, Goenka, as a radiologist, was responsible for carrying out procedures to detect and treat the internal bleeding. The council had collected all documents related to the treatment of Sanjoy and the post-mortem report. “The post-mortem report reveals massive internal haemorrhage, whereas the hospital tried to dismiss that saying there was not much internal bleeding. The patient had bled 2.5 litres of blood externally, too, and the doctors did not do enough to stop it,” said a council member.
 
 In addition to medical negligence, the council also charged Apollo of “inhuman behaviour”. The council will send a copy of its judgment to the two doctors concerned. “We at the council stand with doctors who perform their duty with honesty and integrity. But we will not support any doctor who indulges in medical negligence and malpractice,” Maji added.
 
 TOI tried to get in touch with the two doctors, but several calls went unanswered. “We are yet to receive the official order from the honorable WBMC and shall be able to comment on the subject after we receive it,” said a press communiqué from Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.
 
 
 
