Kolkata: A 16-year-old Madhyamik examinee from Birbhum died on Thursday night in a critical care   that allegedly had an air-conditioner mechanic posing as a doctor. The boy was being brought to a Kolkata private hospital for treatment from a nursing home in Burdwan.

 Arijit Das’s family had requisitioned the ambulance and the doctor through the nursing home at Nababhaat in Burdwan. It was only on reaching the Kolkata hospital that the family discovered the man who had claimed to be the doctor and accompanied Arijit was actually a mechanic. They lodged a complaint with Purba Jadavpur police station, leading to the arrest of Sheikh Sarfarajuddin (25), the fake doctor, and Tara Babu Sha (26), the driver.
 
 Arijit had complained of fever a day before the Madhyamik examinations began on Monday. But the resident of Nausipur in Nalhati managed to write three papers. On Wednesday, when the fever did not subside despite medication and he started having severe bouts of back pain, Ranjit took his son to Rampurhat Sub-Divisional Hospital. “When all blood test reports failed to detect anything, we decided to shift him to a nursing home. We admitted him to Annapurna Nursing Home in Burdwan,” said Arijit’s maternal uncle Dibyendu Mondal.
 
 Doctors there reportedly failed to diagnose his ailment. Meanwhile, Arijit started complaining of chest pain as well. Ranjit didn’t want to wait any longer, and decided to bring his son to Rabindranath Tagore International Institute for Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). The family requisitioned a critical care ambulance and a doctor for the 105-km journey to Kolkata.
 
 “We agreed to pay Rs 8,000 for the ambulance and another Rs 8,000 for the doctor. But when we wanted to sit with my son and the doctor in the ambulance, the driver didn’t let us. We were asked to hire another vehicle,” said Ranjit, a practising homeopathic doctor.
 
 Ranjit and his elder brother, Swapan, somehow squeezed themselves into the driver’s seat while the rest of the family followed in a hired vehicle. They grew suspicious when they saw the driver fixing the oxygen cylinder instead of the doctor, but let it go as they wanted to reach Kolkata fast. The ambulance left Nababhaat around 8.30pm on Thursday and reached RTIICS around 11.30 pm. 
 
 Doctors at the hospital declared Arijit brought dead. Amid the panic, Sarfarajuddin tried to flee but was held back by a relative who started questioning him. 
 
 Sarfarajuddin first claimed that he was a technician who assisted doctors at Annapurna Nursing Home fit oxygen lines for patients. The shocked family approached the police, where he confessed to being just an air-conditioning mechanic.
 
 “My nephew’s condition was not that critical before we left for Kolkata. In fact, Arijit was looking forward to writing his history examination on Friday. I am sure he would have not died in the ambulance that is supposed to have all life support systems had he been accompanied by a real doctor,” said Arijit’s uncle Subhendu Mondal.
 
 Police arrested the duo after an FIR was lodged. 
 
 Cops are also investigating if the life support equipment in the ambulance was functional. “It seems that even the driver was part of a racket that duped patients in similar fashion. The ambulance has been seized and investigations are on,” said an officer of Purba Jadavpur police station.
 
 “The ambulance or the doctor has nothing to do with the nursing home. When the patient’s family requested us for an ambulance, we asked them to get in touch with various ambulances parked outside the nursing home,” said S K Insan, one of the three owners of Annapurna Nursing Home.
 
 However, district health officials have assured to probe the role of the nursing home in the case. “We will probe if Annapurna Nursing Home played a foul role,” said Dr Pranab Roy, chief medical officer health, Burdwan.
 
 (With inputs from Md Asif from Burdwan)
 
 
