It wasn’t love at first sight for actor   and   and actress  , who first met each other on the sets of reality show 'India’s Best Cinestars Ki Khoj' in 2004. After being good friends, the two then graduated to being lovers and finally tied the knot in 2014. However, Sarwar and Aditi have always been tight-lipped about their relationship status, to an extent that the two never disclosed their marriage. In Lucknow for a friend’s wedding, Sarwar and Aditi, in a chat with us, shared their journey from being friends to lovers and now, husband and wife.

 . 
 
  Sarwar and I dated for seven years before we decided to get married. Both of us have never hidden our relationship status, it is just that whenever I was asked in interviews about my relationship status, I always confirmed that I am committed but never took any names. Though everyone knew who was the man in my life. I never felt comfortable talking about my personal life. Regarding our wedding, it was a very small affair with just our close friends and family members. All my close friends and family members knew about our wedding. 
 I mean, I have pictures of my wedding but I never felt comfortable announcing it to the world by posting it online. In fact, I requested everyone who was a part of our wedding to not post anything online. To me, our wedding had to be a very private affair. 
 
  We started dating in 2007 after our first film released together. It was during the reality show and the making of the movie that we released that our thought process and journey in life was the same. Plus, we both are genuinely very simple people who are not quite complicated in the head. So isi tarah se woh dosti dating mein badal gayi. As far as hiding our marriage is concerned, what I can recall is that Aditi's movie was slated for release and the producer didn’t want her to talk about marriage. We didn’t want to disclose our marriage for professional reasons.
 
 
 
  Jo bhi change hue hain woh achhe hi hain. I used to be very scared of marriage before I tied the knot, but now after being married for three years, I think marriage is the most beautiful thing that happened to me. The best part of our marriage is that I now have two families. I get a lot of love from both my families. As far as my relationship goes, I think Sarwar has become more patient after being married to me. Ab usko itna gussa nahi aata. Pehle he used to get angry ek dum se, achanak se. He is much calmer now. And about myself, I always had a very laid back attitude but since Sarwar always wants things to be done ‘now’, so I have to now do things in the ASAP mode, which is totally against my basic nature. I can’t push things for tomorrow now.
 
 r: The only thing that has changed for me is that ab ladkiyon ne importance deni band kar di hai (laughs). But on a serious note, when I was dating I used to give more time to Aditi because of the fear of losing her. But when I am married now, we tend to take things for granted sometimes. Our focus has shifted from going out on dates to creating a bigger bank balance. The word ‘settle down’ has now settled on our minds. The money that we used to spend on dates, we actually have started saving on investments. 
 
 
 
 Not really! We don’t fight. Bahut log kehte hain ki ladne se pyaar badhta hai but hum actually nahi ladte. We solve our issues without raising our voices, though we do have arguments. This is more so because I have grown up seeing my parents not fight, so in my mind it was always there that couples don’t fight. 
 
 Exactly! The reason why we don't fight at all is because of Aditi. Main hi thoda garam dimag ka hoon while she is quite cool headed and always motivates me to lead a life without fights. This is the best thing about her. She has been a very caring girlfriend and now an extremely understanding wife. 
 
 
 
 : Sarwar already has two kids - me and our pet Gabbar (laughs). But on a serious note, we are in such a profession that if we plan a family, I will have to take a break. So, abhi ke liye I have a few projects with me. But yes, I am definitely looking forward to having my own kids. 
 
  I have a very magical touch with kids and I immediately connect with them. Even on the sets of my new serial ' ', I am the jagat papa on the And yes, I would soon like to have my own kid. More so because I am ageing from the point of view that I now count how many years will I be young enough to have fun with my own kid. I would like to have a kid in a year and half. Let's see. We still have to talk on that. (laughs)
 
 
 
  I am very bad with planning on such days. But Sarwar is very good with surprises. So apart from a long drive, I am hoping for a good surprise in the evening today. 
 
  Generally, I am the one who always plans such surprises and she is the one who follows. Toh issiliye shayad our chemistry is still intact as we know who will plan and who will follow. I am more romantic when it comes to showing it while she shows her romance silently. Take for example, her definition of romance is that if I have to travel to someplace and have come late from the shoot a night before, she will pack my bags without telling me. Aditi’s ways of demonstrating love are very silent. 
 
 
  
 
