By : 
 
CHANDIGARH: A stunning new exhibition featuring 20 new works by The  , has opened at the   in Liverpool. The Singh Twins, Liverpool-based identical twin sisters of   heritage, are renowned not only for their highly stylized, narrative art that derives from the Indian miniature tradition to tell current socio-political stories, but also because they are two individuals who paint together as one, and are always identically dressed at all public appearances. Titled Slaves of Fashion, this exhibition explores the history and evolution of Indian textiles, particularly under the British Empire. It’s a deeply researched study of how trade, enslavement and luxury consumerism of the colonial era fed into each other and thrived, and the contemporary relevance of these issues in the world today.
 
 The idea for the exhibition came about after a chance visit to a French museum dedicated to France’s role in the transatlantic slave trade. The textiles on display had been manufactured in India specifically for the French, and exchanged for slaves in Africa. This revelation that India had played a part in the slave trade intrigued the Twins and their curiosity about the subject led to a year of research to explore the global impact of Indian textile trade across nearly six centuries. It finally resulted in this exhibition, which the Twins describe as the most challenging project they’ve undertaken to date, taking four years to complete.
 
 
 From the very beginning, The Singh Twins have seen themselves as “socio-political commentators above everything else and they take their responsibility to educate the viewers of their art seriously, saying, “Educating in the sense challenging different viewpoints and ways of looking at things but also bringing communities together. Our work may be about conflict of the East and the West and colonialism, but our work also says that we are all connected through history. References to African, American, French Portuguese – it all comes to play in this series. Here more than in any work we’ve done before we get this story of a spider’s web of how it all links together in a common heritage.”
 
 Everything stands out about the The Singh Twins’ art, from the way they paint together, to how their entire career, in effect, was a rebellion against the British art education that failed to recognise the validity of Eastern painting traditions, to how bold their art is, as a rule unafraid to make politically charged statements by tackling current debates around the (un)ethical practices of those in power. “That’s part of the Punjabi characteristics isn’t it – quietly rebellious?” they joke. They have participated in more than 50 group and 42 solo exhibitions starting in 1987 in galleries across the UK, Canada, the US and India.
 
 No matter where they show, the one thing they stand firm about is not being defined by any singular characteristic or be boxed under one (usually “Asian”) category, thanks to “perseverance on the one hand but also being prepared to take risks early in our career.” They cite an example where they had their eye on the   and refused to take no for an answer, choosing to not exhibit at all, rather than at some non-descript gallery. The organisers blinked first, and the sisters got the space they wanted.
 
 They’d like to cement their legacy by creating a Singh Twins art gallery, a permanent exhibition space for their works, and make forays into high end home furnishings, fashion accessories and jewellery, obviously ethically produced. But perhaps their most important legacy is “making a difference to the way people from all backgrounds perceive the world around them....”
 
