MUMBAI:   is finalising a deal to acquire majority stake in Flipkart even as its largest shareholder, Soft-Bank, has been willing to invest about $4 billon afresh into the Indian e-commerce leader if it pursued an alternate merger with arch-rival  , sources close to the matter told TOI.

 
 Walmart is only few days away from striking the largest cross-border M&A deal involving an Indian business despite SoftBank’s dissenting voice in the Flipkart boardroom, people directly aware of the matter said.
 
 TOI was the first to report in its February 8 edition that the American brickand-mortar retailer, Walmart, is seeking a route to a majority in one of India’s largest online marketplaces, valuing it at around $20 billion. Walmart expects the Flipkart stake purchase — its biggest e-commerce bet anywhere globally — to trigger a re-rating of its stock market valuation, which has trailed Amazon.
 
 The Flipkart deal would also propel the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retail behemoth to hasten its online expansion into remaining Asian markets, the sources added.
 
 However, Walmart has had to face a spirited resistance from  , which has argued in favour of a predominantly share-swap merger with Amazon. Walmart is said to have had the backing of Flipkart’s majority shareholders who believe a merger with Amazon would not go past the Competition Commission of India, besides facing a backlash from different sections of the trading community.
 
 SoftBank argued that the combined entity of Flipkart and Amazon would manage a mere 1.5% stake of the broader Indian retailing industry and is unlikely to run into regulatory hurdles. But early investors in the company like Tiger Global, Naspers and Accel Partners held on to their divergent views.
 
 Most Flipkart shareholders also preferred a cashout deal as against a shareswap with Amazon. This is where SoftBank suggested that it was open to investing another $3-4 billion in Flipkart, which would be deployed to buy shares from smaller investors and help it maintain around 20% stake in the combine with Amazon.
 
 SoftBank founder and chairman Masayoshi Son saw the combined entity of Amazon and Flipkart giving the Japanese group a bigger play in India’s burgeoning ecommerce market. After Son’s bet on Snapdeal not turning out as planned, Soft-Bank ploughed $2.5 billion into India’s largest e-tailer Flipkart just last year. His proposal to bring in another $3-4 billion would have been a testimony of his long-term belief in the Indian online commerce story. It is likely to involve giving cash exits to some existing Flipkart investors as well, a source close to the matter said.
 
 SoftBank, Flipkart and Amazon did not comment on the development.
 
 In an interview with TOI just a few days ago, Son said, “We are involved in discussions with key shareholders and the management. Either way, we are happy. It is nice to have good offers and we are always open to discussing different options and are always flexible for a good return and success of the company.”
 
 Flipkart’s two largest investors are SoftBank, which holds about 23% stake, while the New York-based investment fund Tiger Global owns about 20% in the company. Another source said that the Flipkart board has given a nod to Walmart’s offer a few days ago, reducing any chances of Amazon’s entry into the deal.
 
 Another source who has knowledge of the talks said, “The shareholding agreement with Walmart is still to be signed. But it is unlikely that Amazon will come in now. Walmart and Flipkart are agreeing on the deal terms, for now.”
 
 TOI had reported in its March 14 edition that Soft-Bank is likely to part-sell its shares when Walmart invests up to $8-10 billion in Flipkart. With Walmart acquiring more than 51% stake in Flipkart, SoftBank doesn’t see itself playing big in the company.
 
