GURUGRAM: The strike by sanitation   of Gurgaon, currently under way at the old MCG office, will enter its 14th day on Tuesday. On Monday, the workers took out a rally in the afternoon around Old Gurgaon, and burnt an effigy of Union minister of state for statistics and programme implementation, Rao Inderjit Singh, outside mayor Madhu Azad’s house.

 Employee unions of other state departments, including Haryana Karamchari Sangh, have extended their support for the strike. State Congress leader Ashok Tanwar also came out in their support on Monday. Tanwar assured the strikers he will join them in a hunger strike if the government doesn’t agree to their demands soon. “We’ve been supporting the workers from Day 1. We’ve already spoken to the governor about this. He has assured us he’ll take the matter up with the state government,” said Tanwar.
 
 He added that the BJP government has been talking about Swacch Bharat, while simultaneously refusing to adequately pay   workers, who are responsible for the cleanliness. The protesters reiterated their demands, asking for equal wages for equal work and for contractual workers to be made permanent. “We’ll wait for a few more days. If the government doesn’t agree to our demands, we’ll sit on an indefinite hunger strike,” said Rajesh Kumar, district president, Nigam Karamachari Sangh. 
 
 Meanwhile, across the city, as   kept piling up and streets remained unswept, the state of sanitation deteriorated. The situation near Civil Hospital is particularly concerning, as it could lead to a health crisis. “No one has come to sweep the streets over the last 10 days. There are mounds of garbage everywhere, which are getting bigger,” said Ravi Chandra, RWA member, Sector 52.
 
 Similar complaints were raised by people from other parts of the city as well. “Garbage is not getting picked up by the agency. The stench is getting stronger due to summer heat. If this continues, it will become difficult to live here,” said S C Kumar, president, Park View Residency Condominium Association.
 
 In the face of mounting criticism, MCG conducted an 80-hour-long drive, which has just concluded, to issue challans to people caught littering garbage in non-desigrated spots. More than 300 challans were issued in the three days. “Our sanitation teams have been working overtime to ensure waste doesn’t collect on streets or roads. Some employees on strike have been threatening other employees, which has not very important,” said a senior MCG official.
 
 For residents, though, the sanitation workers’ strike and the challan drive has come as a double whammy. “We don’t have an option but to leave the garbage outside our houses. How can the corporation challan us for dumping garbage, when sanitation workers are on strike?” asked the president of an RWA, requesting anonymity.
 
 With the strike about to enter its third week, talks between government and workers have failed. While the government says it can’t give contractual workers permanent jobs, due to an ongoing case in the Punjab and Haryana high court, the workers are not ready to back down.
 
 
