BENGALURU: The personal assistant of   and Corporation Bank chief manager B Prakash allegedly colluded to facilitate the former exchange Rs 10 lakh   with new currency in November 2016. As a cover-up, they used copies of fake voter IDs and driving licences of individuals who were in the dark about the deal, the CBI has said, citing its investigations.

 According to the FIR registered on April 17, 2017, by CBI’s Anti-Corruption Bureau (CBI), Bengaluru, a copy of which is with TOI, B Prakash was on November 14, 2016, found to have in his records Rs 10.03 lakh of demonetized currency. Prakash is also lead bank district manager of Ramanagara district. While the vouchers did not account for the sum, Prakash later produced a bundle of 250 fabricated requisition slips to cover up the illegal act.
 
 
 The CBI, in a press release, claimed that its investigations had revealed that Padmanabhaiah, accused no 2, provided photocopies of voter IDs and driving licences of individuals who had no knowledge of the same, to create fake documents for the exchange.
 
 The agency claimed that its investigation revealed that 120 copies of voter IDs had been fraudulently printed without the knowledge of the voters on November 10 and 11, 2016, by misusing the holograms, login ID of the tahsildar and facsimile stamp of the ERO at the election cell in Kanakapura taluk office.
 
 Shivananda, in charge of the election cell, tahsildar office, Kanakapura, and Nanjappa, clerk in the same office, who were custodians of the holograms, login ID of the tahsildar and facsimile stamps of ERO, have been named accused no 3 and 4, respectively.
 
 The office of the Chief Electoral Officer confirmed that the alleged voter IDs used for illegal exchange were generated from the election cell, Kanakapura.
 
 The CBI on Thursday conducted searches at the residences of Padmanabhaiah at T Begur near Nelamangala, Nanjappa at Kanakapura and Shivananda at Uttarahalli, the election cell office in Kanakapura and the district office in Ramanagara.
 
 CBI said that during the searches, incriminating material pertaining to the generation of alleged duplicate voter IDs, used for illegal exchange of currencies, were collected along with the hologram stock register. The suspected hard disk was also imaged and seized, the release said.
 
 The FIR states that Prakash and two others had been deputed to Corporation Bank, Ramanagara branch, to assist officials in view of the increased workload, post demonetization. Prakash was given the responsibility to check the cash that was sent out to other branches and the currency which was put into the currency chest. The cash flow included both demonetized and new currency notes.
 
 The CBI registered a case under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act, suspecting offences such as criminal conspiracy, cheating, using forged documents and misconduct by public servant.
 
 
 
 
 
