KOLKATA: Numbers among the   members present in the Kolkata meeting are heavily loaded in favour of former general secretary  , prompting CPM general secretary   to appeal to the members on Saturday against voting on the draft political resolution. 

 The position of the overwhelming majority vis-à-vis a   alliance remains unchanged despite CPM calling BJP the main danger. 
 
 Yechury told the members that a show of hands, when CPM-ruled Tripura is set to go for assembly polls in a month, would have an adverse impact on Left politics as a whole. CPM bigwigs are thus desperately trying out a consensus in a bid to put up a united face before the Tripura polls.
 
 A back-of-the-envelope calculation by a party insider puts 51 members for Karat and 39 for Yechury, more or less the same with the CC meet that rejected the Bengal CPM’s jote tactic with Congress during the 2016 Bengal assembly polls. Even three from the Bengal brigade — Dipak Dasgupta, Nripen Chowdhury and Anju Kar — are against the Bengal line. The two other major CPM contingents — Kerala and Tripura — that are fighting BJP from the front in the resp-ective states are averse to a direct tie-up with Congress.
 
 Even as CC members from Bengal and a few others argued for an open-ended electoral approach to fight BJP, others were in no mood to buy the argument on the ground that the Left needs to fight BJP on both economic and social grounds when it is hard to distinguish Congress’ economic policies from those of BJP. While some from the Bengal CPM were insisting on putting the draft political resolution to vote, others chose to make peace because that would once again put on record that Yechury is still a minority in CPM.
 
 CPM members from either faction, therefore, do not expect anything much from the CC meet that will end on Sunday. “It is likely to end where it began. Our main priority to defeat the BJP agenda for which we want to work on a broad platform based on alternative policies,” a CC member said. 
 
 
