PATIALA: Five weeks after the kidnap of a toddler from the Government Mata Kaushalya hospital, the authorities have beefed up the security replacing all the 12 old   cameras with new HD quality CCTV cameras.

 A security guard has been deployed at the entry point, while a permanent security guard outside the maternity ward has also been stationed to keep a vigil round the clock. Cops however have failed to trace the kidnapped toddler who was abducted a day after his birth. The police claim to be making efforts to catch the kidnapper, a woman.
 
 
  
 
 The security guard at the entry point now keeps the record of the vehicles entering and exiting the hospital. The hospital has also introduced stringent rules especially for the female ward. For this, a pass system has been implemented and only one family member will be allowed entry to the ward along with their pass.
 
 “We have taken steps to avoid any such incident in the future as this has shocked our entire staff as well as the residents,” said Medical Superintendent Dr Anju Gupta. The changes were made recently after the   health director made a visit to look into the limitations of the security arrangements in the hospital.
 
 The toddler was kidnapped by the accused woman who asked the child’s mother to hand her the child so that the former could go to the wash room. With no nurse around, she immediately escaped from the spot with the child. Cops rushed to the hospital and began a probe by studying CCTV camera footages where the woman with the child was captured. However, police could not detect her face clearly as the cameras were of poor quality.
 
 Cops however made the footages viral on social media and asked people to inform the police about the roundabouts of the accused woman.
 
 The toddler’s mother   and her husband  , both are residents of   village in   sub-division of the district. Cops also hired a software company to get the enhanced quality of images of the accused who had kidnapped the child on January 8.
 
 But with the cameras being of poor quality, there was little success. Police then released a rough sketch of the accused woman but remained clueless yet.
 
 The investigating officials revealed that over 50 people have been questioned in the case. The footage of CCTV cameras installed in the city has been probed besides 12 CCTV cameras of the hospital. People who have been accused in cases of abduction or kidnapping in the past have also been questioned by the police. The police are trying to trace the accused through the phone calls made during the day near and inside the hospital.
 
 For this, police have come up with 42 phone numbers and are studying the details of the calls. It had also approached the Chandigarh police to help them in different ways to nab the accused. Cops say they are leaving no stones unturned in the case.
 
