NEW DELHI: AAP and BJP MLAs got into a war of words on the last day of the public hearing on the proposed amendment in the master plan at   on Monday. The 15   who presented their views, including those who have been disqualified, had earlier claimed that they had not received an invite from   for the public hearing.

 Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj stressed on the need to bring in a provision to make it mandatory for the municipal corporations to spend the conversion charges on infrastructure development within a fixed period.
 
 BJP MLA Vijender Gupta, who is a member of DDA’s board of inquiry, objected to this and clarified that it doesn’t come under the purview of the board. Asking Bharadwaj not to politicise the issue, he said, “Your members are there in the corporations. They can put this point there.”
 
 “We don’t want to politicise the issue, but it is important that the money collected for development of infrastructure is spent on it,” Bharadwaj responded.
 
 Following the heated exchange of words between AAP and BJP MLAs, Bharadwaj, who is also the chief spokesperson of  , asked party members not to address Gupta directly as the “the real matter” for which they had come would not get highlighted.
 
 Ambedkar Nagar MLA Ajay Dutt fought with BJP MLA OP Sharma, who is also a member of the board, after the latter interrupted him for deviating from the topic.
 
 Jarnail Singh, who represented Tilak Nagar, said that it was unfair that there are no members of the ruling AAP government on the board of inquiry. “There are two BJP MLAs on the board even though AAP has the maximum number of MLAs,” he added.
 
  chief   reached for the hearing when the board of inquiry had finished the proceedings. He met DDA vice-chairman Udai Pratap Singh and gave his suggestions in writing. He also criticised chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and deputy CM Manish Sisodia for not showing up at the public hearing on a serious matter concerning the city. “Had either of them come, I would have felt that AAP is serious about the issue,” he said in a press conference at Delhi BJP headquarters.
 
 
