Shillong: After winning one   title and a Federation Cup with  ,   joined arch-rivals   last year and is already staring at the tag of champions in his first season with them. Topscorer for the title contenders so far and the creative mind for the team in midfield, the Japanese footballer talks about his season, his new club, his partnership with Al Amna and his aspirations for the coveted title in an interview with TOI. Excerpts: 

 How important is Monday’s match for you?
 
 It’s a do-or-die match for us. All of us know that and are focussed. None of us want to lose this opportunity to become champions after coming so close to it. 
 
 Do you think the team had gradually primed for the title and at the right time?
 
 We have worked hard throughout the season. The time that the coach and supporting staff have given us will go in vain if we don’t win the title. We have peaked at the right time. Now we need to give it all on the field. 
 
 Against Chennai, you played a more deeper role in midfield. Do you think that helped the team?
 
 I had told the coach (Khalid Jamil) that I wanted to play in a more central zone. That way I can guide the defence as well as the wingers and strikers. If one can create the game from a deeper area, then the pressure on the strikers is reduced. 
 
 What is your favourite position as a footballer?
 
 That depends on the situation. But whatever position I might play in, I am always happy when the team wins. At the end of the day, we want three points from every match and it feels good if I can contribute towards that end. 
 
 This is your first season with EB. How would you rate your season so far?
 
 I don’t believe in ratings. Nothing is gained if you can’t win the trophy after playing well all season. But I am happy at East Bengal. Everyone here is supportive. We have grown into a team quite fast and that has helped us on the field.
 
 Did you take some time to adjust to the new team? How different has it been from Mohun Bagan?
 
 I don’t want to think about Mohun Bagan right now. A professional footballer needs to adjust to every situation. And I had wanted a new challenge and that’s why I came to East Bengal. But there’s not much difference between the two Kolkata clubs. Both have passionate supporters. If I can’t win a trophy here, then people are going to forget about my achievements with Bagan. 
 
 Do you miss the understanding you had with Norde last season or have you found the chemistry on field with Amna?
 
 I played with Sony for almost three years. We were good friends even off-field. Amna also takes a lot of workload in East Bengal. It feels good to play alongside him. We have also become a pair in a short time. If we get more time together, we’ll play even better football. 
 
 You are the top scorer for EB so far? Which of the six goals is your favourite?
 
 The goal I scored against NEROCA in the away tie is my favourite. I had been injured in the previous match. A Gokulam player broke his leg in the tackle with me. I didn’t think that I could play the next match. But our physio got me fit for the game and I scored in it. That’s why it’s very special, in spite of the disappointment of not being able to win the game. 
 
 Lastly, you have been playing in India for more than seven years? What changes have you seen in Indian football over this period? 
 
 Indian football has changed a lot. Corporate teams have come in and the importance of the I-League has increased. New coaches like Khogen Singh have emerged. The style of play has changed. But a lot of improvement is still required in certain areas.
 
 
