THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In an affidavit filed in the Supreme Court, Indic Collective, a heritage protection organisation, had sought for the stay of works undertaken by Kerala Nirmithi Kendra at Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple and the temple pond  , alleging that it has no expertise in temple architecture and is not competent enough to carry out the work. The   on Friday directed that whatever grievance the applicant had could be taken up with Justice   committee for the temple works.

 The heritage organization had also sought the court’s intervention for assessment of the destruction of heritage structures, the appointment of suitable persons or institution as per the recommendation of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) for the restoration of the heritage site.
 
 It was amicus curiae Gopal Subramanium in his reports submitted in October 2012 and in April 2014, recommended the cleaning and   of the temple ponds namely   and Padmatheertham, among other restoration work at the temple.
 
 “It was further directed that the repair of the Padmatheertham tank would be consistent with the old design and to be completed by September 15, 2017. Travancore Royal family had protested the demolition of century’s old kalmandapams (granite pillars). The dismantling of pillars was not taken up in a scientific manner. Further, the renovation work has resulted in the demolition of the old Saraswathy mandapam the remains of which were thrown into the Padmatheertham pond,” members of Indic Collective based in Chennai point out in the affidavit.
 
 “The Nirmithi Kendra has no expertise in temple architecture. Further, the renovation work undertaken by the said entity is not consistent with the previous archaeological or heritage design of the Padmatheertham pond. Nirmithi Kendra has thus violated the directions of the apex court order of May 9 last year. It was further submitted that the selection committee for the sreekovil and other allied works should consist of Kanipayoor Krishnan Namboodiripad, M Velayuthan Nair, S Ramamurthy and Sharath Sunder T with the retired judge of the apex court   as the chairperson of the committee. But it was all violated by Nirmithi Kendra,” said members of Indic Collective.
 
 
