CHENNAI: As news of the transport workers’s strike being called off trickled in late on Thursday evening, thousands of residents made a beeline for the Chennai Mofussil   Terminus (CMBT) in  , eager to board a bus for their native towns for the   holidays. 

 The situation was chaotic as almost all government buses available were full and hapless commuters were forced to depend on private operators who demanded exhorbitant sums. Some decided to use their own vehicles, but most had no choice.
 
 The   began earlier in the day when word about an imminent end to the strike apread and the various government corporations brought in vehicles from other depots. Officials of the State Transport Corporation (STC), which had the most number of buses, said no reservation was required and that they would carry as many passengers as possible. 
 
 While the majority were disappointed, a few got lucky. K Parasivan, an engineering student who came with little hope, was thrilled when he managed to board a bus for Pattukkottai. So was R Rajesh, another student, who got a seat on a Madurai-bound bus. A few STC buses were also operated from the Anna terminus in Tambaram Sanatorium, said an STC official, adding that the number of buses and passengers would go up from Friday.
 
 Private bus operators were demanding fares at least three to four times higher than normal for places like Tirunelveli and Nagercoil from January 11 to 13. Return trips were equally expensive.
 
 Several people said they planned to return to the city earlier than usual. “We are forced to go come home late by a day or two due to exorbitant rates at the beginning of the holidays,” said G Yamuna Devi of Perumalpuram in Tirunelveli who is working at Chennai.
 
 Fares from Tirunelveli and Bengaluru, which are normally in the range of Rs 555 to Rs 1,600, now cost Rs 1,100 to Rs 2,999 for travel on January 16. The demand, however, continued to be high, with almost all private operators enjoying heavy business and many hoping they would experience a similar demand during the three-day Republic Day holiday weekend. 
 
 (With inputs from Ananth M K)
 
 
