AGARTALA: With major opposition parties   and   finalizing most of their candidates for the 60 seats, the election campaign in Tripura is hotting up.

 If the party flags adorning streets are anything to go by, BJP and   are far ahead of the rest while Congress is yet to catch up. All major towns besides Agartala are covered in party flags and festoons, with CPM and BJP at par. In villages like Chowmanu, Fatikroy, Padmabill, Melaghar, Rajnagar, Karbook and Ampinagar, the saffron colour dominates or at least appears to be a formidable contender to ruling CPM.
 
 The tribal-based Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT) has gone far and wide as far as its party campaigns go - with mixed-population areas like Gabardi and Kanchanmala sporting IPFT flags.
 
 In the tribal areas like Simna, Asharambari, Gandacherra, Manu and Takarjala, IPFT is in the lead. The hills of Tripura were the main bastion of CPM for the past four decades, nurtured by communist legends like Nripen Chakraborty, Dasharath Debbarma and Baidynath Majumdar till the late '90s.
 
 The growth of the tribal party has been slow but steady. With the Autonomous District Council (ADC) election in 2000, the tribal base of CPM started eroding since they were ousted from the power in the hill administration. However, CPM was able to hold on to its base there till the 2014 parliamentary election. In the meantime, BJP has stepped up its activities in the hills of Tripura - with RSS volunteers and Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram supplementing its agenda.
 
 The 2015 ADC election brought about further change. CPM won all 28 seats in the ADC with 49% of vote share. The IPFT emerged as runners-up in most seats while BJP started gaining visibility in the hills. IPFT leaders observed that their slogan of separate Twipraland, by elevating the present ADC for tribals, has had a significant impact on tribals, especially the youth. The party had been fighting for the demand for last 17 years but it got momentum in the last ADC poll.
 
 According to IPFT chief NC Debbarma, the 2015 ADC election was a game-changer for them. "The left party, which spread its wings in Tripura during the 1950s with the slogan of tribal development, did nothing. By 2017, it was clear that there was no satisfactory development in the past 67 years. We made our people see how the ADC is being virtually de-fanged by the Left Front government over the years," Debbarma said.
 
 "In the present Parliament, leftists form a minority but they were quite strong in the previous tenure. CPM was a partner in the Congress-led UPA government, but did not take any step to empower the ADC or develop the tribal population of the state. Now, the Modi-led government has understood the grievances of tribals and agreed to form a committee to look at the socio-economic, cultural, educational and linguistic issues of them - the main reasons of demand for separate state," BJP tribal wing chief Jishnu Deb Barma said.
 
 CPM state secretary Bijan Dhar rubbished the explanations of both IPFT and BJP. He said interpretation is nothing but an attempt to justify their stand of electoral alliance and said, "IPFT, with the aid of BJP, is misguiding the tribals and instigating them against communists for narrow political gain, which is more dangerous. However, we believe tribals will not fall for their unrealistic model of development and will vote us back in power." 
 
 
