JALANDHAR: The   candidate for the May 28 bypoll to Shahkot assembly seat, Hardev Singh ‘Laddi Sherowalia’, wrote a fresh complaint to   chief electoral officer on Sunday, demanding a probe into the activities of a police inspector who booked him in a case of illegal mining on Friday.

 The politician’s complaint also demanded that the cop, Mehatpur police station SHO Parminder Singh Bajwa, be transferred out. Even as   cried foul, Bajwa extended his leave by five days. He also revealed that the state government had withdrawn his two gunmen and taken back his service revolver and AK-47 assault rifle.
 
 In his complaint, Laddi mentioned a news report by a TV channel, which aired the CCTV footage of an upscale hotel in   and claimed that Bajwa was there four hours before he registered the case against Laddi, around 4.30am on Friday. “His presence there at that hour, and registration of FIR against me in a few hours, has a bearing on my prospects in the byelection,” the complaint reads.
 
 When contacted, the SHO questioned if it was wrong to stay in a hotel he could afford. “I did nothing wrong by registering the FIR. I don’t know the illegality of my staying at the hotel; why should that be linked to the FIR?” he said.
 
 Responding to another query, he said he had been asked by his bosses to proceed on leave for another five days. Bajwa has already been on leave for two days. With his security cover being withdrawn, the cop said he had been left to fend for himself. “Now, all I am left with is my private licensed weapon,” he said. “I was never keen on serving as the SHO of Shahkot constituency and never lobbied for it.”
 
 Punjab assembly leader of opposition Sukhpal Khaira had earlier said that Bajwa had registered against some persons close to   MLA Rana Gurhit Singh, and he was transferred out even then.
 
 Called seniors, they did not answer: Cop
 
 The SHO of Mehatpur police station, inspector Parminder Singh Bajwa, said he had called up his seniors before he registered an FIR against Congress’s Hardev Singh ‘Laddi Sherowalia’ early morning on Friday. “I called up my seniors on Thursday night to inform them that the chief electoral officer had sent the complaint to me. But everything was left to me and none was ready to take the onus. I registered the FIR in the right earnest, mentioning that the allegations could be politically motivated due to elections and any further action would be taken only after a thorough enquiry. There was no malafide intention; I was just going by the rulebook. But now I am being put in the dock,” he said. 
 
 ‘Election office sought report in 24 hrs’
 
 Inspector Parminder Singh Bajwa said his call records would reveal the officers he tried to contact. “I could not sleep as neither my seniors not officials of revenue and mining department were ready to give their inputs in the night itself. It was under these circumstances that I registered the FIR; the CEO had sought a report in 24 hours,” he said.
 
 
