CHANDIGARH: The senior editor of an academic book widely considered the ‘bible of pathology’, has alleged that an Indian author has plagiarised some 40 images in his own work. This has sparked a major debate in the medical fraternity.

 Dr Vinay  , distinguished service professor and chairman emeritus of the department of pathology at  , has accused Dr Vinay Kamal of copying the images from ‘Robbins and Cotran, Pathologic Basis of Disease’ in his ‘Text Book of Pathology’.
 
 Kamal, who was formerly at the Maulana Azad Medical College in New Delhi, recently published his book with   and Distributor, New Delhi. Kumar has already informed his publisher, Elsevier, about his allegation.
 
 Kamal refuted the charges and said, “I have over 1,500 images as compared to 1,100 images of the Robbins book and none are plagiarized. Three images are similar which can be redone in case my publishers asks me for it. I have been able to sell 7,000 copies in last nine months and this is worrying the author.”
 
 S K Verma, vice president marketing and operations at CBS said, “There is no issue between Elsevier and us on this subject.”  , spokesperson for Elsevier at their headquarters in New York told TOI, “Elsevier takes plagiarism and copyright infringements very seriously and we defend against infringements whenever and wherever we discover them. We are working with CBS and hope to resolve this matter swiftly.”
 
 Kumar alleged, “Quite surprisingly copying is from the eighth edition (2010) and not from the current ninth edition (2014); perhaps it was thought that no one would check one of our older editions. The copied figures are identical except for some cosmetic changes in colors and shapes of cells. All the labels are the same and the processes are depicted in exactly the same manner. I created some of these figures over a 15-year period covering three editions, each time improving it. No permission was requested by the author or publisher for use of these figures and there is no acknowledgement of the source.”
 
 Dr Manoj K Singh, professor of pathology, AIIMS, New Delhi said, “Dr Kumar is a doyen in the field of pathology. His allegation should not be ignored. We all are supporting him on social media; however, the case must be taken up seriously by the publishers.”
 
 Inset:
 
 Dr Kumar has been selected to receive the Gold-Headed Cane Award in 2019 at an annual meeting at Experimental Biology in Orlando, Florida. The award is the highest honor granted by   to a member and recognizes contributions to pathology in the areas of scientific research, teaching, and leadership.
 
 How are these illustrations unique to an author?
 
 Usually, authors read scores of papers, decide which ones are important or original and then synthesise the data and depict it in a figure that can be understood by an MBBS student who does not have any scientific background. In the Robbins, Dr Kumar has conceptualised his own figures which are not complex and can be comprehended easily.
 
 Caption of the figures attached--comparison of the Robbins and the Indian text
 
 Robbins 9-33 Depiction of circuits and molecules in human brain that control body weight. Kamal 7.5
 
 
