Salem: Three people were killed and as many injured after a 10ft high wall erected atop the roof of a leading chain of restaurant cum sweet shop to put up advertisement hoardings collapsed at Neikkarapatty on the outskirts of the city on Saturday due to heavy rain and whirlwind.

 The deceased were identified as Nurul Ameen, 46, of Erode, his relative Syed Ali, 41, and hotel staffer S Arjunan, 32, of Salem city.
 
 According to police, there were more than 50 people inside Adyar Ananda Bhavan at Neikkarapatty when the incident took place. “The wall collapsed due to heavy wind and rain and fell on the false ceiling of the hotel,” said the Kondalampatty police, who have registered a case and launched a probe into the incident.
 
 A total of six persons got trapped in the debris and of them Nurul Ameen and Arjunan succumbed to their head injuries on the spot.
 
 Soon after the wall collapse, people in the vicinity alerted the Kondalampatty police and Shevapet fire and rescue services personnel, who cleared the debris and rescued four others, who were rushed to the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and a private hospital.
 
 “Syed Ali succumbed to his injuries on the way to the government hospital in the city,” the police said and added that condition of the remaining three victims were stable. “Two of them were treated as outpatients, while one is admitted to a private hospital,” they added.
 
 Preliminary investigation revealed that the hotel owners had not used concrete slabs to close the ceiling. “It had only false ceiling,” an official said, requesting anonymity. “The false ceiling could not withstand when the 10ft advertisement hoarding wall fell on it. The incident could have been averted if it had concrete ceiling,” the official added.
 
 Salem collector Rohini R Bhajibhakare visited the hotel and directed the officials to clear the debris at the earliest. She also visited the private hospital and consoled M Ravikumar, 38, one of the victims.
 
 Talking to TOI, the collector said the hotel owners hadn’t obtained both the public building licence and the building plan approval. “While they have applied for the public building licence, they haven’t yet applied for building plan approval,” she said.
 
 The collector also promised stern action against Adyar Ananda Bhavan management for running the hotel without mandatory licenses.
 
 
