NEW DELHI: India's   powered   to a scintillating 4-3 victory over   in the   when she defeated reigning World and Olympic champion Helen Maroulis of USA 7-6 (57 kg) in the fourth bout of the day on Tuesday. It gave Punjab a crucial 3-1 lead in the seven-bout duel.

 
 
 
 
 Pooja began well and took a 2-0 lead in the opening period. She continued to attack in the next round and hopped to a comfortable 7-0 lead. The two-time World Champion fought back well but could manage only 6 points as the Indian defended superbly.
 
 Writing in her column for TOI, Pooja said that the win was one of the biggest victories of her career so far and confessed that she didn't let the thought of winning or losing come into her mind before the fight and simply decided to put her best foot forward.
 
 Luckily for Pooja, she had clashed with   of Tunisia, another Olympic medallist, before this bout and that taught her a couple of things and they came in handy against Helen.
 
 "Marwa tied me up at the start itself, by attacking from the word go. I opted to use her tactics and began in an aggressive manner. It panned out nicely as on my third attempt I managed to garner a few points. That's exactly what I wanted. The four points on technical superiority boosted my confidence immensely; the fans in the packed stadium too roared for me, that pumped me up even more. I am really delighted with this victory. But then, it's not yet over. I face Sangeeta Phogat next. She is also in good form, having defeated another World Champion. She is a very good wrestler, no doubt about it. I have lost to her once but otherwise on all other occasions I have returned on top," Pooja wrote.
 
 "I am very optimistic about this bout now. More than her, however, I am looking forward to my fight against Commonwealth Games' gold medal winner Odunayo. I need to figure her out as I might end up facing her first up in the   this year. I want to be prepare myself for that eventuality. Lot of people felt that I shouldn't have blocked   in our tie against UP Dangal. I do not agree with that viewpoint. The fact is I have not done as well as Vanesa in international tournaments. She has much more experience too," Pooja opined.
 
 "I totally support the coaches of my team Punjab Royals on this decision. Of course, fans may be saying this now, after my victory over Helen. I can only say one thing: this win only gives me more faith and will help me and my team in the rest of the league. Last year, I had participated in the   after recovering from an injury. I had undergone a surgery and it was my first competitive tournament. I may not have done brilliantly but the experience of putting up good fights against World and Olympic champions helped my self-confidence. I never thought at that point that I would be beating a champion like Helen in just a year's time. As hosts, we have all been given a free hand to fight against the world's best. I must thank WFI president Brij bhushan Sharan Singh and Pro Wrestling League for giving as all this opportunity," Pooja penned down.
 
 "Tuesday's night's victory over Haryana Hammers has brightened our chances of making it to the semifinals. There was a slight apprehension that if we lose the toss, we might lose the tie to them too. But all our team-members performed well and turned the tables," Pooja signed off.
 
