AHMEDABAD: The first museum that   designed,  , happens to be in Ahmedabad, the first Unesco World Heritage City of India. Now, the museum is all set to be restored and turned into a fully functioning cultural centre. 

 The initiative is being supported by   (GCI) which works to conserve modern architecture, and will address the care and conservation of only three museums designed and built by noted architect, Le Corbusier. These include   in Tokyo, Japan, along with Museum and Gallery of Art, Chandigarh, in addition to Sanskar Kendra.
 
 Susan Macdonald, head – buildings and sites, GCI, said, “The restoration plan for Sanskar Kendra would involve the physical restoration and reintegration of the building, the way it is. 
 
 As Sanskar Kendra is the purest example of a cultural centre set by Corbusier, it is important to revive and enliven it as a cultural centre and make it an expression of the city’s culture as well as of the story of Corbusier bringing modern architecture to the city.”
 
 Susan was present at a workshop on ‘Le Corbusier’s Three Museums: A workshop on their care and conservation’, to explore opportunities for restoration of the museum. The discussions focussed on improving both architectural conservation and collections management for the building.
 
 The entire project will be entirely funded and implemented by AMC with the guidance of experts from GCI. “We have allocated Rs 20 crore for the restoration of Sanskar Kendra in the budget of 2018-19. The restoration work will begin in the initial part of the upcoming financial year,” said municipal commissioner, Mukesh Kumar.
 
 As part of the original design for Sanskar Kendra, the rooftop was supposed to be a terrace flower garden. Explaining this, Susan said, “Corbusier’s design of Sanskar Kendra is a fine example of environmental design, wherein the local climate is taken into consideration to design the building. The flower garden design and the hydroponics on the terrace clearly reflected how it was a green building. Through our series of discussions, we’ll explore how this can be revived.”
 
 
