CHANDIGARH : Students in the Tricity are trying different tactics to ease the pressure of  . The most common practice to beat the   is group study. 

 After completing revision once, a number of   and Class XII students are preparing for Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) board exams together. According to students, this makes them more confident and better prepared, besides enhancing clarity.
 
 “I feel it broadens our perspective. We get a chance to hone our thinking abilities and look for solutions. Because we study in groups and meet at regular intervals, we cannot procrastinate. We know our time-limits and we try to do our work in the given time. This helps us manage time well. We also develop communication and teamwork skills. Studying by yourself, especially for long periods of time, can be monotonous. But by joining a study group, you can break the monotony and learn faster. The healthy competition and adherence to small goals makes our performance even better,” said Bhanu Rakshita, a Class X student.
 
 While the advantages of study groups are many, students can be hard pressed to find a study group in the first place. “It’s very important and difficult to find a comfortable and suitable study group which will give positive results,” she said. 
 
 Agamya Choudhary, a Class XII student from Government Girl’s   in Sector 20 said, “No matter how much I study and how well-versed I am with the topics, I get a feeling that I have forgotten. In a study group, we test each other’s knowledge and this is a good way of improving confidence.”
 
 This does not mean solitude does not have its benefits. There are those who have done group studies and now that exams are round the corner, are shifting back to individual studies. “Both options work for me in different scenarios. But near exam time, I feel individual studies work best for me because that way I can focus on my weak points. This also makes learning more efficient,” said Roshia, a Class X student from a private school.
 
 Local counsellors on the Central Board of Secondary Education helpline and counsellors in schools also advocate group study, provided the group has like-minded participants. 
 
 “The level of the group should be the same. Supervision is also very important. The pace of learning should also match. The group should ideally be supervised either by a teacher or parent of a group member. Written work should be given preference and should be checked too,” said  , a local CBSE counsellor.
 
 Prabhjot Kaur, a government school counsellor said, “I feel studying in groups is excellent as students can learn with peers and clear each other’s doubts in the process.” 
 
 But parents are a little sceptical as they are not sure how well children will concentrate in a group study environment. 
 
 Ravita, mother of a Class XII student from a government school in Sector 20, Chandigarh said, “I don’t deny group study is good but I feel children in a group are not too serious and studies become secondary as their focus is on either gadgets, new games or gossip. This is what they have been doing all through the year, so I certainly am not in favour of study groups.”
 
 
