MUMBAI: More than 47 Global Chief Executive Officers and 165 CEOs of leading firms in India will participate in the first ever three-day  : Convergence 2018 summit beginning on Sunday at the BKC grounds.

 Prime Minister   will inaugurate the conference, while more than half a dozen union ministers and chief ministers of most of the BJP-ruled states are likely to participate in the event. Modi will address a round-table conference of all CEOs attending the conclave. “In 2016, the   government had organised Make-In-India, then we were hosts for the event, now we ourselves are organising the conference. Our aim is to project Maharashtra as the final destination for domestic as well as foreign direct investment,’’ chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who reviewed the preparations for the event on Saturday, said.
 
 A senior bureaucrat told TOI that during the three-day conference, it is expected that nearly 4000 MoUs, with estimated investment of Rs 10 lakh crore and job opportunities for 35 lakh, will be signed in the presence of the CM. Initially, it was expected that at least four key MoUs will be signed in the presence of the Prime Minister, but there was no confirmation. Key MoUs, including Reliance Jio, Railways Latur coach factory, Ratnagiri Refinery and Petrochemicals limited, ReNew power ventures, Amazon, agri export hut at Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust, Britannia, Genus paper, Lloyd Steel and Mahindra electrical vehicles will be signed before Fadnavis.
 
 On the probable leading entrepreneurs, the bureaucrat said Gautam Adani, Ajay Piramal, Anand Mahindra, Mukesh Ambani, Uday Kotak, Adi Godrej, Tonino Lamborghini, Rahul Bajaj, Harsh Goenka, Azim Premji, Suneel Advani, Nunzio Mirtillo (Erisson) and   (Emerson) are expected to participate in the summit.
 
 The high light of the summit will be a discussion on Maharashtra: the Trillion dollar economy. Besides Isha foundation founder Sadhguru, HDFC Chairman Deepak Parekh, Atlas Copco managing director Giovanni Valent, Municipal Commissioner Ajoy Mehta, GVK Vice-Chairman  , KPMG CEO Arun Kumar, Japan’s ambassador Kenji Hiramatus, JSW group head Sajjan Jindal will participate in the discussion.
 
 On the concluding day on February 20, the bureaucrat said, there will a seminar on sustainability: water conservation, spot light session on women entrepreneurs and ease of doing business and decrypting GST.
 
 The bureaucrat said that in view of the summit, Fadnavis declared a series of policies, particularly on defence production, energy, textile and e-vehicle sectors.
 
