KOLKATA: Hours after the alleged vandalising and blackening of a bust of Jan Sangh founder Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee at Keoratala Crematorium in Kalighat on Wednesday morning, the name of an extreme Left-leaning group — Radical — came back to haunt the city.

 Though little known to the politically conscious Bengali ‘bhadralok’, the group has been part of a series of recent run-ins with not only the Jadavpur University administration, but even other Left-leaning people like former JNU students’ union president Kanhaiya Kumar. Kumar was labelled a fake revolutionary by this group.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 They had courted controversy yet again when slogans demanding ‘azadi’ (freedom) for Kashmir and Manipur were raised at an Arts Faculty Students’ Union (AFSU) rally against Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) alleged attempts to “pollute” the atmosphere on campus. The state intelligence had pinned the blame on the group last April.
 
 While the group had its formal initiation after the Hok Kolorob movement in JU, its two main proponents —  , arrested on Wednesday for the vandalism act, and his wife   — were well known in police circles since the Singur-Nandigram agitations. “Abhishek was arrested by Kolkata Police STF for his links with Maoists. He was the one who had raised a black flag and shouted slogans against former CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharya when he entered the campus years ago. He was part of another organization then,” claimed a police source.
 
 The group, originally linked with the USDF, broke away from it. But the two organizations kept working together, claimed JU students. An example is the arrest of Debjit Bhattacharya, 22, who continues to be an official member of the USDF.
 
 Wednesday’s incident has divided JU students, especially the Arts faculty where Radical has maximum hold. While a large section — including SFI, FETSU and FAS — condemned the “eye for an eye” attitude, many said the “larger picture of imposed fascism” cannot be missed and in that context, an “emotional outburst that resulted in a protest” should be dealt with an iron hand.
 
 “We want the students to be released by the state. The context here cannot be missed — the statues of Lenin ( ), Periyar (Kerala) and even Ambedkar (UP) are being pulled down by a fascist regime. The vandalism of Mookerjee’s statue is not a democratic one, but why is the state’s action in this case more draconian than in case of others?” questioned  , a self-confessed USDF functionary. Sumit, a PhD third-year student, argued that it was time to ascertain why a particular leader’s bust be put up at a certain place.
 
 Afreen   and Arpan Pal — self-confessed SFI members — said there was need to compete for idealism and not breaking busts. “Mookerjee must have done something for his bust to be there. If he stands for a specific idealism that represents the extreme right, we can challenge him by pointing out ideals of Lenin, Periyar or Ambedkar. This act is juvenile,” said Pal. Begum said the incident achieved little beyond shifting focus from Tripura, which is witnessing a “state-sponsored political witch-hunt”.
 
