VADODARA: Five persons including historysheeter   alias Kalpesh  , were booked by detection of crime branch (DCB) of city police for threatening a key witness in three   cases of 2011 and 2012.

 Interestingly, Kachhiya is not an accused in any of the cases. But one common accused in all these cases is Sanjay Dave alias Sanjay Rx, a former henchman of late gangster Mukesh Harjani and who is currently in jail for murdering him.
 
 The complainant, Rakesh Parekh, a transporter and farmer, told the court during a hearing in one of the cases on February 27 that he had been receiving threats from Kachhiya and his men identified as Deepak Dhobi, Ashok, Pappu and Jago. 
 
 While Dhobi, Ashok and Pappu are believed to be Kachhiya’s partners, Jago has been identified as his brother in Parekh’s complaint.
 
 After Parekh’s statement, court had ordered police protection for Parekh, but still feeling afraid of the threats, he approached the crime branch with his complaint.
 
 Police said that Parekh had received summons to remain present in court on February 5 for his testimony. But around 10 days prior to the date, Ashok, Dhobi and Pappu came to Parekh’s office in Maneja and asked him to tell the court that he does not know anything and the police had made him sign on a pre-written statement. 
 
 He was also told not to identify Sanjay Rx in court. On February 4, Dhobi took Parekh to a restaurant and threatened him to stick to what he was asked to do otherwise he will have to face the consequences.
 
 Later, Dhobi made Parekh talk to Kachhiya, who was in jail at that time. Kachhiya too threatened him of consequences if he would change his statement. After talking to Kachhiya, Dhobi dialled Sanjay Rx and asked Parekh to talk to him as well, but he refused.
 
 Parekh, who was under stress, did not go to court on February 5 after which he was summoned again on February 27.
 
 Before going to court on February 27, Parekh was threatened to follow the instructions, but when his statement was being taken by the court he said that he was receiving threats for changing his statement.
 
 “Prima facie we are suspecting that Kachhiya and Sanjay Rx must have struck a deal in jail that Kachhiya would manage witnesses against him. But what would have been promised by Sanjay Rx is a matter of investigation,” said a police official. He added that the police was gathering evidences and will make arrests soon.
 
 
