HYDERABAD: The road from Charminar to Hussaini Alam, the neighbourhood which is perhaps as old as the historic monument, is rather straight. But from there one has to pass through a labyrinth of by-lanes to reach Momin Bagh, the cemetery where Air Chief Marshal (Retired) Idris Hasan Latif was laid to rest last Tuesday.

 Air Chief Marshal Latif had died in the afternoon of April 30. His body was shifted from his residence on Road No. 1, Banjara Hills, to Jama’t   at around 8am the next day. Following the preparation of the body, namaz-e-janaza or the last prayers were said and traditional military salaami was offered before the final journey to Momin Bagh began. The congregation was conspicuous by the absence of senior officials and public and political personalities. He was laid to rest around noon. To his left is the grave of Bilkees, his beloved wife for 57 years who had passed away about six months ago leaving him bewildered.
 
  
 Born to Hasan Latif, chief engineer in the Nizam’s Hyderabad State, Air Chief Marshal Latif came from Sulaymani Bohra community, a small sub-sect of Shia Muslims. The other main sub-sect of Shia Muslims is Dawoodi Bohras who are larger in number and well known in Hyderabad, Mumbai and Surat among other cities of India.
 
 According to community sources the number of   in Hyderabad is not more than 2,000. “They are like the Parsis whose population is shrinking,” one of them said.
 
 Sulaymani Bohras have been living in Hyderabad for the last 400 years.
 
 Their religious headquarters is known as Jamaat Khana Sulaymani, located in Hussaini Alam, where majority of the community resides. Unlike, Dawoodi Bohras who are into small-and middle-sized glass and hardware businesses, most of the Sulaymanis are doctors, engineers. Some of them also work in government and private sector.
 
 A few well-known names from the community include artist M F Hussain who stayed with his wife in Hussaini Alam for some time in the 1970s. The other person was Sir Mirza Isamael who served as Prime Minister to the last Nizam of Hyderabad Mir Osman Ali Khan. Freedom fighter Badruddin Tayabji, orinthologist Salem Ali and former top bureaucrat Zafar Saifullah are the other celebrated names from the community from elsewhere. Incidentally, Sir Mirza Ismael is buried in the Momin Bagh cemetery.
 
 Amil Saheb, or the spiritual head of community, is   who is not attending office owing to ill health.
 
 
 Other officials, Janaab Sadulluh and Janaab Hibatullah, told TOI that ACM Lateef was a regular visitor to Jama’at Khana until a few years ago. He used attend the Eid prayers and also some wedding ceremonies, they said.
 
 
