NEW DELHI: During Delhi Daredevils’ brief stay in Mumbai last weekend for their   11 fixture versus Mumbai Indians,   was coaxed into stepping out of the team hotel to explore the nearby Mumbai 
 and returned with a mixed view of the city’s famed cricket structure. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Though he has travelled to Mumbai on many occasions - most famously scoring a match-winning 97 against Sri Lanka in the final of the 2011 World Cup - Gambhir has not ventured out much into the city. Mostly put up in one of the many south Mumbai hotels that dot the spectacular Marine Drive, Gambhir, by his own admission, has usually only dropped into Natural Ice Cream at Marine Lines for a sample of the famous ice cream parlour’s offerings. And that too when results on the cricket pitch have been favourable, whether it be for India, his state team Delhi or for his previous IPL franchise, Kolkata Knight Riders. 
 
 
 
 
 But during the ongoing IPL, the 36-year-old’s ‘Mumbai Tourism’ route changed. 
 
 “A journalist friend of mine from Delhi is freelancing for a foreign sports channel. They are putting together a documentary on history of Mumbai cricket. My friend is a 
 ’. You know those who actually fantasise drowning in a tub-full of butter chicken and shahi paneer on Tuesdays, those who can use cuss words even between ‘Please’ and ‘Thank You’ and cricket-wise those who hate Mumbai because of their record 41 times Ranji Trophy title wins,” wrote Gambhir in his column for 
 . 
 
 “Shockingly just five days of filming for the documentary has made him a fan of Mumbai cricket. The guy is now a convert! Don’t get me wrong as he can still dance on the sound of a generator but all of a sudden is giving me history classes on Mumbai’s legendary 
 . He somehow convinced me to do a short trip to the 
 .”
 
 
  
  
 
 Disguised under a cap, sunglasses and “a smelly handkerchief” Gambhir set out from Hotel Trident on Marine Drive and in 10 minutes reached the famed open-for-all Cross and Azad 
  of south Mumbai. What he observed during the time he stood on the sidelines of a tableau of academy and informal, pick-up cricket matches left him with mixed feelings. 
 
 “There were eight or nine matches going on. A fielder who was at third man for his match was at silly point for another game and at long off for another one. Tents were being used as ‘dressing rooms’. Amidst this chaos the game went on with romance and determination, may be carefully constructing another Tendulkar or Rohit Sharma. A glass of sugarcane juice and
  later I was on Azad 
 ,” wrote Gambhir, who is the IPL’s fourth-highest run-getter with 4210 from 150 innings. 
 
 “There were only boys or men playing cricket. Not that things are any different in my home state Delhi but I expected better from Mumbai. I looked around and realised even if girls did play here there were no toilets or decent changing rooms for them. As a father of two daughters I can understand why parents in Mumbai could be reluctant,” he noted. 
 
 “Standing there I couldn’t help but wonder a sad paradox. While   was all decked up for our IPL game, these 
 , which are nursery of Mumbai cricket, were searching for their proper toilets. Apart from this the grounds breathe this great game.”
 
 Delhi Daredevils, who languish at the bottom of the   leaderboard with three losses from four matches, next play fellow laggards   on Saturday. Though he missed a brief trip to Natural Ice Creams in Mumbai, Gambhir was hopeful, tongue in cheek, of enjoying something tasty following Daredevils’ match against RCB. 
 
 “If all goes well, I will be going for Cheeku flavour in a waffle cone,” he signed off, referring to RCB skipper Virat Kohli’s nickname.
 
 
