Got nothing to wear? Can't decide what to buy? Never have that moment again. From the little black dress to a classic black blazer, we've got 15 wardrobe essentials, that will make your day-to-day dressing easy. These smart buys are timeless and something you can always count on. Click through the ultimate list and get your everyday style on point.

 
 No one took you seriously in your teens? A well-tailored blazer will help you get the job done now! Wear it over your basic tee or a chic dress, this blazer can take you from your first interview to even a classy date.
 
  
 
 
 If you're a fashion girl, you'd already know the importance of a little black dress. Also, black is one of essential colours you need to own. Learn different ways to wear your LBD and master the timeless piece.
 
  
 
 
 White makes you look chic and polished, so why not own a buttoned down shirt? Wear it with your formal skirt or casually with your denim, this piece can be styled in many ways. 
 
  
 
 
 Looking at all the trends in the last few years, one thing is clear that a denim jacket isn't going anywhere. Wear it your denim shorts or with your favourite graphic tee. This statement piece will always upgrade your look. 
 
  
 
 
 Got days when you feel dull and bloated? This flowy fabric will help to cover up and make you look great in no time. 
 
   
 
 
 Forget all the colours when it comes to footwear. Investing in nude coloured flats like sandals, ballets will be one big investment. They will go with your bright pink dress and even the classic black skirt.
 
 
 
 
 A pair of classic pants can always be a chic alternative to jeans. Even if you pair it with a basic slip, you'll always look dressed up. 
 
  
 
 
 Along with your big tote, you would also need a sleek shoulder bag. Be it your dinner date or a party to attend, you need to replace your tote with an elegant small bag. 
 
  
 
 
 Heels have the power to transform your look in a jiffy. Be it your first day at work or dinner party, a pair of black heels will always look chic. Look for patent leather to go a long way.
 
  
 
 
 Purchasing your first skirt? Go for dark colours like blue, oxblood and black. These colours work well with many colours. From graphic tees to elegant blouses, a skirt will always make you look sleek.
 
  
 
 
 Be it a beach or Sunday brunches, you can always count on a printed dress for easy-breezy style.
 
  
 
 
 Who says you need to wear heels every day? Sneakers won't let you make a fashion compromise. They are cool, trendy and can be worn to work too! 
 
 
 
 
 Learn to embrace your 20s and give yourself a feminine touch with delicate accessories. From layered neck pieces to diamond studs, pick accessories for your everyday style. 
 
  
 
 
 A good bra is an investment every girl needs to make. Ditch your mother's picks and shop for a bra that fits you well. From full-support to plunging bras, there's a lot you need to know. 
 
  
 
 
 The 20s is all about making an impression and don't let your phone cover create a fashion faux pas. From floral prints to slogan covers, phone covers have been the most coveted accessory in the last few years. 
 
  
 
