NAGPUR: The National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) and an European agency are being engaged by the   ( ) for providing technical support in its proposed bio mining of around 10 lakh metric tonne solid waste lying in Bhandewadi since 1962. Significantly, experts have warned that bio mining of non-segregated waste is fraught with risk.

 Last year, TOI was the first to report that bio mining will be adopted at the dumping ground. After carrying out a pilot experiment, the then municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar had initiated the tendering process. While presenting the NMC budget for 2018-19 on Friday, NMC commissioner   announced that bio mining will be used to reclaim the vast dumping area.
 
 According to Mudgal, the tender which was floated in May 2017 for implementing the process, is in its final stage now. “Negotiations are in progress, we are identifying the right prices from other cities and third parties. Once the price is finalized, the work will begin,” said Mudgal.
 
 He added that Neeri and the European agency are carrying out a study for characterization of waste.
 
 Bio mining is a process where the already-dumped waste is dug up and segregated. The waste is loosened by harrowing and sprayed with composting bio cultures. Depending on its type, the waste is then sent for recycling, reusing or composting. 
 
 “By using mechanized methods, the waste will be mined in inert and metal, wood and plastic components. As per the government policy, inert will be used as an input by the cement manufacturers,” said Mudgal. 
 
 Apart from this, materials having high calorific value will be converted into fuel briquettes. 
 
 With NMC going ahead with the plan, experts have a word of caution for the civic body as India has “very few success stories” of bio mining. Mumbai-based Amiya Kumar Sahu, founder of  , said that it is an expensive, highly scientific and can be a dangerous process. “Implementation of bio-mining requires a lot of technical expertise. First, the dry waste needs to be separated mechanically and this should be followed by waste remediation,” said Sahu.
 
 He further warned of fire hazards that can pose serious threat to lives of nearby locals. “There are high chances of fires when the heaps of waste are brought down during bio mining. It is important to leave sufficient openings for passing-out of the extremely flammable methane gas,” he added.
 
 TOI has been repeatedly reporting about frequent fires in the dumping ground which is leading to severe air pollution and has become a health hazard for locals. 
 
 
