GURUGRAM: Is winter over? February may just be in its third week but it certainly seemed so in the NCR on Wednesday.

 The maximum   crossed the 30-degree Celsius mark for the first time this winter and touched 31.7 degrees – seven notches above normal — in Delhi. This was also the warmest day recorded this month and Met officials said the maximum temperature was unlikely to go below 29 degrees in the next few days. It was also the second warmest February 21 in the last decade, as the capital recorded 32.4 degrees Celsius on this day last year. In Gurugram, the maximum temperature on Wednesday was 30 degrees Celsius. 
 
 “Mercury is likely to stay around 31 degrees Celsius for the next few days, barring a slight drop on February 24 due to cloudy skies and thundery development. The chance of rain, however, is very little as a western disturbance is going to affect further up north,” said  , scientist at Regional   Forecasting Centre (RWFC).
 
 
  
 Forecast for Thursday shows the mercury hovering over a similar range with the maximum and minimum temperatures likely to be 31 and 12 degrees Celsius, respectively.
 
 Warmer temperatures al-so brought with them higher pollution. Gurugram has seen an 80% rise in the concentration of PM 2.5 levels in the past 72 hours, with its air quality index (AQI) touching the 304 mark (‘very poor’) on Wednesday. Delhi’s AQI was a ‘poor’ 290.
 
 In Gurgaon, the concentration of PM2.5 increased to 159 on Wednesday from below 88 micrograms per cubic metre before Monday. It was 110 micrograms per cubic metre on Tuesday and 108 on Monday. Residents blamed the sudden rise in pollution levels on burning of waste on Monday and Tuesday. 
 
 Experts said rise in temperature should have reduced the PM2.5 concentration. “However, that has not been the case. While low wind speed is a factor which increased PM2.5 levels, several man-made factors, including waste burning and vehicular pollution, can’t be ignored,” said  , an environmental engineer. HSPCB officials blamed low vertical wind speed for the rise in pollution levels.
 
 
