NEW DELHI: Come the 2018-19 academic session, close to one crore unsold   textbooks will become obsolete as texts are being updated for the upcoming year.

 While textbooks becoming redundant on updation is nothing new, what’s unusual is NCERT’s huge inventory of unsold books. “A rough estimate suggests that Rs 25-30 crore worth of books will become obsolete in the new academic session,” said a senior National Council of Educational Research and Training official.
 
 This is the first major updation of NCERT books in seven years involving all texts. Last year, NCERT commissioned a print run for 4.6 crore textbooks. HRD ministry sources said nearly a crore of these books have remained unsold.
 
 
 
 
 According to NCERT sources, the number of redundant books could be more than a crore. The final count will be known only after the council receives data of unsold books sent to various locations and dealers.
 
 In 2013, it was decided that data in the textbooks will be updated annually. However, the ongoing updation is a bigger exercise. It was also decided that the council while ordering new editions would keep a cushion so as to avoid scarcity of books. “While books of previous print run becoming obsolete is nothing new, the 2017-18 cushion seems unusually high, resulting in a bigger loss to the exchequer,” said an official on condition of anonymity.
 
 On February 8, 2018, TOI had emailed a detailed questionnaire to the director and spokesperson of NCERT seeking answers on the criteria based on which the print run is decided and the cushion usually kept each year. The council was also asked about the fate of the unsold books from the 2017-18 reprint. However, no response was received from the council.
 
 NCERT has started taking online requisitions from 2016. In August 2017, it launched a portal for schools and individuals to raise indents for textbooks.
 
 This year so far, NCERT has commissioned a print run of 5.6 crore textbooks against a requisition of 2.6 crore books by schools and individuals through the online mode. The news books are likely to be available by March-end or the first week of April 2018.
 
