NEW DELHI: The drug trafficking racket busted by Delhi Police on Thursday just got bigger. A day after TOI reported the arrest of a Kashmiri youth, Arshid Haq (25), with   worth Rs 3.5 crore, Special Cell of Delhi Police said it had arrested his associate with heroin worth Rs 12 crore.

 The second accused, Amobi Lawrence, belongs to Lagos, Nigeria and had been living in south Delhi’s Maidan Garhi with other members of the syndicate.
 
 Lawrence was arrested after Haq disclosed his whereabouts. During interrogation, Haq said that Lawrence had handed him a trolley bag on April 13 which he was supposed to hand over to a woman at the Colombo airport. 
 
 “A team comprising inspector Kailash Bisht and SI Alok got a tip-off about their plans and Haq was arrested,” a senior officer said. The cops then raided Lawrence’s house the next day and recovered around 3kg of heroin. Police are now hunting for this mystery woman who is supposedly the key figure in the Delhi-Colombo drug trafficking  . Sources said more arrests were likely and a team would be going to Sri Lanka.
 
 Cops have seized the mobile phones of Lawrence and Haq and will be sending them for forensic analysis. Sources said police have concrete information about Lawrence’s contacts in Colombo and are tracking their activities. The number of trips taken by Haq in the past and the amount of heroin smuggled by the entire module is also being probed. A team has also gone to Haq’s house in Baramulla and the local police have also been informed about his arrest. 
 
 On Friday, TOI had reported how Haq had been arrested before boarding a flight to Colombo with heroin stuffed at the bottom of his trolley bag. Cops are probing whether Haq belongs to the same module as a Kashmiri soldier, Mohammed Anwar, who was arrested with drugs worth around Rs 32 crore after being intercepted on a Delhi-bound bus from Srinagar. 
 
 Haq has revealed that a large consignment of heroin had been sent to Delhi from Afghanistan via Pakistan and the cartel had roped in several carriers to distribute the drug in Delhi, neighbouring states and Colombo. The new route has stumped investigators as Colombo is known for getting its dope supply from Pakistan and south India through the water channel.
 
 
