JAIPUR : A 30-year-old income tax inspector from   killed his wife and buried her body inside his house in Vadodara. After the grisly act, he also filed a missing complaint with the Jaipur police as a ploy to evade the police's growing suspicion on him. 

 A native of Alwar in Rajasthan, Lokesh Choudhary's bluff was called by Jaipur's   police on Saturday, when he admitted to killing his wife,   (28), following an illicit relationship.
 
 A team of Jaipur police has now been sent to Vadodara to recover the body. "He called Munish to come to Vadodara from Jaipur, where he was posted as income tax inspector, and killed her with the aid of his friend on April 11," said additional DCP (East) Hanuman Prasad.
 
 Interestingly, Choudhary weaved a story about her wife being abducted by some youths in Gandhi Nagar locality.
 
 When the needle of suspicion directly pointed at him, Choudhary hectored cops about failing to find his wife. "He complained about cops not finding his wife. He also shared pictures of Munesh on several WhatsApp groups and claimed that she went missing after some bike-borne youths trailed him," the official said.
 
 When the trail of evidence led to Choudhary, he was detained for questioning. He then admitted that he had murdered Munesh as he wanted to marry another girl.
  
 
 “He had married Munesh on February 2017. She was studying in Jaipur. Around the same time, Choudhary developed a relationship with another girl who also hailed from Alwar,” Prasad said, adding that the girl asked Choudhary to divorce Munesh.
 
 “He did not want to divorce Munesh due to family and legal reasons. Hence, he hatched a conspiracy with his friend to kill his wife. He sent his friend to Jaipur and asked Munesh to come to Gujarat with him. Meanwhile, he made all the plans for the final act,” said an official.
 
 When Munesh arrived at his house in Vadodara, Choudhary and his friend strangled her and buried the body in a trench they had already dug. The Gandhi Nagar police said the victim’s father has alleged that the accused and his family had harassed her for dowry and withdrawn money from her bank account.
 
 “We have sent a team to Gujarat to recover the body. A case has been filed against him under sections 364 (kidnapping) and 302 (murder),” the official said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
