Madurai: The medians constructed on city roads in Madurai are proving to be more dangerous than a safety aspect as the one near the Aravind Eye hospital proved on Saturday. A mini lorry which scraped the median at Anna Nagar in Madurai was enough to bring it down like a pack of cards with the large stones in its structure rolling all over. Several motorists who did not see the debris fell over it and sustained minor injuries. 

 However, with no action coming from the authorities to clear the debris, the wall continued to crumble all through Saturday morning strewing more stones and concrete. This resulted in two-wheeler riders losing their balance when they went over the big stones among the debris. 
 
 In fact, this is not the first incident of its kind in Madurai. Morotists point out that the medians constructed throughout the city lack quality with many getting uprooted from their base. For instance, the 10-feet stretch from the MGR bus stand to the flower market in Mattuthavani got uprooted from its base over a year ago. It continues to stand dangerously, posing threat to the traffic on the route.
 
 National president, Association of Consulting Civil Engineers, India, Sanna Ratnavel, says that the crumbling effect was because of the poor quality of the medians constructed throughout the city. ``The corporation just gives it to the best bidder, who is just an engineer with political connections. Actually, such work should only be carried out by competent structural engineers in consultation with transport engineers. This was definitely not done in the case of Madurai’s medians,’’ he said.
 
 While most of the medians on the 80-feet and 100-feet roads have been constructed using large stones and concrete, they ought to have been made using small stones to prevent mishaps, he said. ``No specification, including the foundation or the width of the median, seems to have been adopted. A median constructed adhering to specifications and rules should stand strong for a minimum of 25 years, but here they are lost in four years,’’ he said.
 
 
