SURAT: Palanpur/Rajkot/Vadodara/Ahmedabad At least 16 people died in various kite-flying related accidents across the state on Uttarayan.

 While most victims died after their throats were slit by the glass-coated manja, others deaths occurred when the victims tried to catch kites, fell from terraces or were electrocuted.
 
 Deaths were reported from Rajkot,  , Ahmedabad,  ,  ,  , Surat,  
 
 In Rajkot, Raju Nakum, a resident of Ghanteshwar, was crushed under the train when he ran on to the tracks to catch a kite in Bhomeshwar. Bharat Makwana (45) succumbed after falling off the terrace while flying kites in Morbi while 14-year-old Yash Manni, a resident of Jodiya town, was electrocuted while trying to remove a kite caught on a high-tension wire.
 
 In Vadodara, the deadly manja slit the throat of newly-married Priyank Parmar (28), on the eve of Uttarayan when he was celebrating his wife’s birthday. Parmar and his wife were at the Saraswati Complex area in Manjalpur on a bike after watching a movie at a multiplex whenParmar’s throat got slit. Parmar, a resident of Shreeji society in Maneja, was rushed to a private hospital in the area but succumbed. A 17-year-old pavement dweller, near Sharad Nagar area in Tarsali, was electrocuted while trying to remove a kite from a high-tension wire. Although, she was shifted to hospital by a 108 ambulance, she did not survive.
 
 In Surat, four persons, including two 10-year-old boys, died in kite-flying accidents. Guddu Sudhir Singh (26), a resident of Limbayat, succumbed in hospital after his throat was slit by manja on Varachha flyover. Singh, a father of three, was on his motorcycle. Naved Mustaq Shaikh (19), a resident of Bhestan, also suffered serious wounds to his neck due to manja and died at Civil Hospital. Neev 
 
 Kakadiya, a class IV student, died after falling off the fifth floor of Abhishek Apartment in Mota Varachha, while trying to catch a kite. His father, Dipak, is in the embroidery business. Emergency services received 35 calls about Uttarayan-related accidents in two days. A 10-year-old boy, Hritik Roshan Kurmi, died after being hit by a city bus while trying to catch a kite on the BRTS track in Pandesara. His father Jayendra, a weaving unit employee, identified his body on Monday.
 
 In Gozariya village of Mehsana, 24-year-old garage owner Kalpesh Patel’s throat was slit by manja near his house. In other accidents, a scrap dealer, Bahardursinh Kinwau (34), died in Thara town of Banaskantha after he fell off his bike while trying to save himself from manja. He died on the spot. 
 
 In Ahmedabad, at least three persons including an eight-year-old boy, died after falling off terraces while flying kites. 
 
 
