PUNE: Since their stunning chase of 206 against   10 days ago, Chennai Super Kings’ momentum has suffered a bit. They have lost two of their previous three matches including the one against Kolkata Knight Riders on Thursday night. While they are still very much on course to qualify for the playoffs, there are some issues that need addressing. As they prepare to welcome Virat Kohli’s RCB for the return leg at the MCA Stadium, they will be hoping to find the form that made them a dominant force early in the piece.

 
 It won’t be easy, though, against a Bangalore side boosted by the return of   from a viral fever after missing their last two matches. The South African will replace compatriot  , who is unavailable for the game having returned to South Africa to attend a wedding. “AB is back fit. With Quinton being unavailable, it’s an easy decision for us to make regarding who AB comes in for,” RCB coach Daniel Vettori said on Friday.
 
 In de Kock’s absence, Parthiv Patel – one of the first to take strike during the nets on Friday apart from taking part in wicketkeeping drills – is likely to don the gloves. De Villiers’ return makes the job that much harder for the CSK bowlers, who have been under the cosh in the last few matches. Although they fell a few runs short of par total batting first against KKR, the ease with which Dinesh Karthik & Co. chased down 178, aided by some sloppy fielding, must be a cause of concern for the CSK think-tank.
 
 RCB, meanwhile, have their own set of problems. Yes, the win against Mumbai Indians – where the bowlers finally came to the party – must have lifted their spirits, but they still have little margin for error as they possibly need to win five of their last six games to finish in the top-four. Their bowling remains a lingering concern, having conceded as many as three 200-plus totals in eight matches. Tim Southee did lead the attack admirably with figures of 4-0-23-2 when they defended 167 against Mumbai in their last game, but can they do it time and again?
 
 
