NAGPUR: Putting the speculation of a change of guard to rest, the Akhil Bharatiya   (ABPS) re-elected Suresh, alias Bhaiyyaji, Joshi as ‘Sarkaryavah’ (general secretary) of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh for yet another term of three years. This will be the fourth consecutive term in the all-important executive post for the 70-year-old Joshi.

 The decision was taken at the highest decision-making body of the Sangh Parivar after an election process. As per tradition, Joshi was elected unopposed. The election of the general secretary, the second in command of the RSS, is held triennially at the Nagpur headquarters of the Sangh while it meets at different cities in the other two years.
 
 On the agenda for the second day of the three-day Pratinidhi Sabha here on Saturday, was the election of the Sarkaryavah. Ashok Sowani was named election officer to conduct it. Dr  , the western region sanghachalak, proposed that Joshi continue for a fresh term. He said the Sangh had grown “satisfactorily” in the last few years with the number of ‘shakhas’ going up and generally increasing the acceptability of the RSS in people across the country.
 
 The proposal was seconded by   of Kanpur. Since there was no other name contestant, Joshi was declared elected unanimously.
 
 Interestingly, Joshi was elected to the post for the first time in 2009 the same year in which Mohan Bhagwat was also elected Sarsanghachalak (RSS chief). The two speak the same language and seem to be on the same wavelength. Disturbing this arrangement probably was not accepted in the top brass as the duo played a major role in Narendra Modi-led BJP’s ascendancy to power in Delhi and getting in place a government with its own majority headed by a swayamsevak.
 
 By re-electing Joshi, the Sangh has also sent a clear signal that it would not be influenced by outside forces. There were speculations that Joshi may step down and in his place a relatively younger Dattatrey Hosabale may be elected. Thus, it has once again demonstrated that the RSS would not bow down to political demands and rely on combined wisdom of the Pratinidhi Sabha in which around 1,500 representatives of 35 Sangh Parivar constituents have a say.
 
 Moreover, with the general elections around the corner the RSS clearly went for a status quo and did not seem keen to disturb the current equilibrium at the top. Soon after the 2104 election win of BJP at the Centre, in a media briefing Joshi had credited the RSS with working for the higher voter-turnout “to strengthen Indian democracy”.
 
 The BJP would now hope the same strategy works in 2019 with Bhagwat-Joshi duo remaining at the helm of RSS.
 
 State chief minister Devendra Fadnavis was also present at the Pratinidhi Sabha on Saturday after his plane landed in Nagpur instead of Amravati due to poor visibility there. Fadnavis spent the first half of the day at Reshimbagh and flew to Sangli after 2pm.
 
 
