AHMEDABAD: Daniel Carmon, Israel’s ambassador to India, delivered a lecture at Gujarat University’s   on Tuesday. The event was organized by   and  . During his lecture, Carmon spoke of instability along Israel’s borders that he said has arisen because of terrorism in the region.

 
 “The situation in the region is complicated and there is great deal of instability caused by various factors: around us in the south is the Gaza Strip which is dominated by Hamas, and Iran too,” he said. “To our north is Hezbollah in Iran.”
 
 Carmon said that the battleground is not a conventional one where two armies battle each other. “This battleground is different. It is new. The war is an asymmetric war,” he said. “The international law does not know how to cope with this. Terrorism is lifting its heads in new ways of fighting. We have been advising the world ahead of time about what Hamas is doing.”
 
 Carmon also referred to the troubles on the day Israel commemorates the declaration of independence, May 14. Carmon said that this year Hamas had called for a peaceful demonstration. “They had planned a series of activities using civilians,” he said. “They are labelled peaceful demonstrators but are actually incited. Their aim was to cross the border, breach it, cut the fence and come in the thousands.” Carmon claimed that there were instructions by Hamas on social media to kidnap Israeli soldiers who would be needed for negotiations later. Carmon also lashed out at Iran and alleged that it was supporting terrorism. “Israel has three major issues — Iran, Iran and Iran,” he said. “It promotes international terrorism and promotes destabilization of our region, which is contrary to the non-proliferation treaty the country signed. It has its feet deeply in Yemen, Libya, Syria, Iraq and Lebanon. We’re committed to protecting our citizens and our territory.”
 
 Israel ambassador to India emphasizes bilateral ties in agriculture
 
 Israel Ambassador to India, Daniel Carmon, emphasized on further boosting of bilateral ties between Israel and India, particularly Gujarat. He highlighted Israel’s strengths on the technology front in the agriculture and water management sectors and said there is tremendous potential for business collaboration between the two countries. “I met with CM Vijay Rupani, who said the state government in Gujarat plans to set up desalination plants. Israel-based companies are experts in water management technology including desalination and recycling among others,” said Carmon. He also emphasized on possible collaboration in the agriculture sector especially in irrigation technologies and setting up centres of excellence in agriculture here.
 
 
