KANPUR: Four persons, including two National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) aspirants were arrested by the police on Monday for allegedly kidnapping a minor-Aditya Shukla alias Nandu (9), son of Manjit Shukla--from Nazirabad area of Kanpur and demanding ransom of Rs 5 crore from his parents. The kidnappers, later fearing trouble, had reportedly dumped the child in a UPSRTC bus in Fatehpur and fled. 

 
 Police later registered an FIR under sections 364 (A), 504, 506 of IPC and launched an investigation in this regard. 
 
 The arrested persons have been identified as Ravi Verma,   Yadav alias Vicky, Akhilesh Yadav, all natives of   and Mohit Gupta, resident of Kalyanpur area of the city. 
 
 "The police recovered four country-made pistols, several cartridges, five mobile phones and SIMs, a car, besides a couple of two-wheelers from the four accused which they had used in kidnapping the child. They have been sent to jail while hunt for their accomplices is underway. Ravi and Shivjeet, who hail from Pratapgarh, were preparing for NEET and were putting up in a hostel in Kakadeo area of the city. They were the 'masterminds', who had kidnapped the child Aditya Shuklawhile he was on way to school on an E-rickshaw in   area of the city on April 16 morning. 
 
 Soon, the miscreants had made a ransom call of Rs 5 crore to the boy's father who runs hostels in Kakadeo area. The child was however later dumped in a UPSRTC bus in Fatehpur as they developed a cold feet," said SSP   on Monday. 
 
 During interrogation, Ravi told the police that he along with Shivjeet had kidnapped the child to pay his 'donation' fee as well as of his girlfriend, who is also a NEET aspirant. He said he did not share the kidnapping plan with his girlfriend. He then purchased a second-hand car and a motorcycle for executing the crime, Ravi said. 
 
 Police said the arrests were the result of intense interrogation of suspects and inputs gathered with the help of e-surveillance, besides CCTV footage. During this process, the cops zeroed in on a mobile phone shop owner Manoj Gupta from whom Ravi, against fake identity, had procured two SIMs, and from one of the numbers of the SIMs, the accused had made a ransom call. 
 
 Ravi and Shivjeet had come to know about the victim's father Manjit Shukla, who runs several hostels in the city as they used to reside in a hostel situated opposite Shukla's hostel, and both believed that Shukla could easily pay a ransom of Rs 5 crore, the police said.
 
 
