SHIMLA: The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG), in its latest report, has picked holes in plans prepared for flood management by the   Pradesh irrigation and public health department.

 CAG has said in the report that the department did not prepare plans as proactively as desirable, it did not carry out a scientific assessment of flood-prone areas, and also did not formulate a comprehensive, basin-wise master plan. The report has also pointed out at the lack of an action plan for quick execution of flood-protection works. Of the 2.31 lakh hectares of estimated flood-prone areas in the state, only 25,116.21 hectares (11%) could be covered as of March 2017, it said.
 
 Being a hilly state, Himachal Pradesh forms catchment of five major rivers — Beas, Chenab, Ravi, Satluj and Yamuna, and their tributaries. These rivers and tributaries flow through steep slopes, eroding cultivable land and causing heavy loss of life and property in case of flooding. Main causes of floods in the state include: cloud bursts in the catchment areas of rivers, heavy rainfall in upper reaches, sudden breach or bursting of manmade dams or natural lakes, landslide leading to obstruction of flow and change in river course, and tectonic movement leading to slope failure and landslide.
 
 Of 55.67 lakh hectares in the state, an estimated area of 2.31 lakh hectares is prone to floods. Chamba, Kinnaur, Kullu, Mandi, Shimla, Sirmour and Una districts are more prone to or are affected by flood.
 
 The report said the state had faced several major floods or flash floods since its inception in 1971, in which about 309 persons lost their lives and 1,905 livestock perished, besides causing estimated loss of more than Rs 2,385.45 crore.
 
 Floods are natural phenomena, but their impact can be reduced by better preparedness, and through a comprehensive, effective flood management programme. But the CAG report has pointed out at the absence of morphological studies for execution of flood protection projects or works.
 
 It said that robust flood forecasting system was non-existent in the state and the department had not constituted standing committee and review committee for joint inspection of critical and major flood protection maintenance works and review of major works respectively. It said that performance audit of implementation of flood protection projects in the state showed execution of flood protection projects and works without adequate planning, delay in execution and completion of the projects and ineffective monitoring.
 
 It said there was short release of Rs 657.36 crore by the centre and Rs 21.25 crore by the state government under flood-management programme projects during 2008-17, resulting in delay of more than 12 to 60 months in execution and completion of the projects.
 
 Against seven flood-management programme projects approved during 2008-13, and stipulated to be completed between March 2012 and March 2017, only four projects were completed and embankment of 275.873 km (50 per cent) against the target of 548.995 km was constructed up to March 2017.
 
 Against Rs 67.48 crore withdrawn by six test-checked divisions during 2006-15 and irregularly charged to works without actual utilisation, Rs 57.45 crore were used during subsequent financial years and balance Rs 10.03 crore was lying unspent under deposit head for more than two to four years, report added.
 
 
