VADODARA: The war of words which has started between M S University’s   and university’s examination section over the goofed up   issued to students of second semester of first year Bachelors of Science (B Sc) continued on Friday as well. 

 TOI had earlier reported about how students were busy running between the faculty and the exam section to get their hall tickets rectified instead of preparing for exams. 
 
 A day after the university’s exam section tried to put the onus of the goof up on students and the faculty, dean of Faculty of Science professor A C Sharma shoot off another missive to university’s deputy registrar of examination.
 
 While stating that the faculty is trying to know the reasons for the goof up in hall tickets, Sharma has stated that allotment of subjects to first year BSc students is finalised at the time of submission to registration which takes place after the end of the migration of students to professional courses. 
 
 “Any mistake in entering the subjects allotted to a student, is completely rectified before he/she appears in semester I examination. Rectification is made at the examination section level on receiving the complaint from the students,” Sharma stated. 
 
 Stating that the faculty does not permit any changes in subjects once a student appears in semester I exam, Sharma has once again questioned on how did the subjects of the students change in hall tickets for semester II exams. 
 
 “It is not any kind of blame to anyone, but let us address the loopholes in the system,” said Sharma, adding that he has also shared the clarifications issued by the section to members of the faculty level admissions committee. 
 
 The university’s exam section on Thursday had made an attempt to put the onus on the faculty by issuing a clarification stating that the subject selection for both semesters of first year students is done by faculty level admission committee. 
 
 “The selected subjects are visible to all the students in their respective e-Suvidha ID. As the students are not checking this fact and directly reporting at the time of examination, after downloading their hall tickets, this type of problem arises,” the exam section had stated in its clarification, ruling out any error in the digital university framework adopted by the varsity. 
 
 
