BENGALURU: Dubai, Singapore and London continued to remain the top three most-travelled international destinations from Bengaluru for at least the third consecutive year, helped by direct flights to the cities, data from   (BIAL) for 2017 has shown.

 But Colombo has clocked the most impressive growth rate among the top 10 international destinations from Bengaluru, up 54% to 82,316 passengers last year. Consequently, it rose to the fourth spot, from the sixth position in 2016.
  
  
 Dubai continued to remain the gateway to the West for Bengalureans, with 1,79,070 passengers travelling to the city last year, up 8% compared to the previous year, due to an abundance of flights run by Gulf carrier Emirates and domestic carriers like SpiceJet, Indigo and Jet Airways.
 
 Singapore too remained on top of the list; growth of passenger traffic from the city has been staggering. As many as 1,52,657 passengers flew to the south-east Asian city last year, up 44% from 2015 and 37% from 2016. Apart from the existing flights between the two cities, Jet Airways also started its maiden flight towards the end of 2016 and has announced plans to start a second daily flight from next month “given the growing passenger traffic on the popular route.”
 
 Though London remained at the third position, it recorded an anaemic passenger traffic growth of just 2%.
 
 On the surge in traffic to Colombo, Devesh Agarwal, editor of aviation blog Bangalore Aviation, said: “For a few years, there was a lull as there were not enough flights but now Sri Lankan Airlines and other Indian airlines have added capacity.”
 
 He added that Indians like to vacation in places such as Bangkok, Sri Lanka, Singapore and Kuala Lumpur. “Previously, they travelled within the country for leisure, but in a younger city such as Bengaluru, people want to travel overseas,” he said. All the four destinations have seen a spurt in traffic.
 
 On the domestic front, while New Delhi and Mumbai remained the busiest routes, cities such as Kolkata, Hyderabad, Pune and Ahmedabad saw a huge surge in passenger traffic. Growth for the Bengaluru-Mumbai route remained flat, with experts pointing out the saturation of Mumbai airport as the reason.
 
 Hyderabad jumped to the third position in the list, with a passenger growth rate of 35% to 6,99,610 passengers. Kolkata recorded a nearly twofold increase in traffic to 6,10,563 from just 3,35,305 two years earlier. Ahmedabad, which has been languishing at the last position, jumped to the seventh, recording about 3,50,000 passengers, as domestic carriers add more flights to connect smaller cities.
 
 “Most of the airlines are increasing their capacity with 40-50 aircraft per year, and the growth in passenger traffic reflects that,” said Agarwal.
 
 
