SURI: Nominations for nearly 7,534 rural body seats are likely to be filed as political parties try to make the most of the Monday deadline. 

 On Sunday morning, Ayub Laskar, a CPM Brindakhali gram   branch secretary, was shot at in Baruipur, 30km from Kolkata. A day earlier, Laskar’s brother and a sister-in-law had filed nominations for the May 1 gram panchayat polls. “He was admitted to Baruipur hospital,” said party MLA Sujan Chakraborty. Trinamool Congress blamed the shootout on an inner party feud. 
 
 On Sunday, however, there was a break in filing nominations. Taking advantage of this, police started sporadic checks on vehicles and people along the Bengal-Jharkhand border to pre-empt a fresh attempt by “outsiders” to foment trouble. This came a day after a senior Birbhum police officer lodged an FIR against 56 “known” and 10,000 “unknown” persons for the Md Bazar clash that led to pitched battles between Trinamool and BJP. Trinamool had blamed police for failing to rein in outsiders. The melee resulted in several BJP supporters filing their nominations.
 
 On Monday, the Supreme Court is likely to deliver its order on BJP’s petition seeking central forces for the May 1, 3 and 5 rural polls in  , citing the violence that broke out during the weeklong nomination process. The state has been resisting any suggestions for deployment of central forces. 
 
 Increasing the state’s discomfiture, governor Keshari Nath Tripathi on Sunday indicated that Raj Bhavan wasn’t sitting idle. Tripathi said: “I have heard TMC’s version and that of other political parties. I will not disclose what action I will take.”
 
 The FIR lodged by Md Bazar inspector-in-charge Madhab Chandra Mondal mentions the names and addresses of 56 people involved in the clashes. All the accused are locals. The FIR further says the 10,000 unknown persons it mentions are BJP supporters.
 
 Police had claimed outsiders — even cross-border intruders — were instigating violence during the nomination process. Trinamool’s Birbhum satrap   said: “We too have lodged a complaint. We have enough evidence that BJP hired goons from adjacent areas of Jharkhand.” 
 
 On Sunday, 28 people were arrested, six among them having filed nominations for the panchayat polls.  , a lawyer who defended the accused, said: “The court directed police to submit a case diary on April 10. As per police FIR, no accused named was from Jharkhand.”
 
 (With inputs from  ) 
 
 
