AHMEDABAD: Among the 60-odd vintage cars and 25-odd classic motorcycles at the   Car Show, scheduled to be held at Aman-Akash Party Plot near Shreyas Crossing on January 27, will be two cars that are uniquely linked to the city’s heritage.

  
  The first is a 1956 Chevrolet Bel Air convertible, which the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru rode in, while in the city to inaugurate Nehru Bridge in the first year of Gujarat coming into existence, 1961. Nehru rode across the new bridge in the convertible with the top down. The car belonged to the Mangaldas family, and was bought by Surendra Mangaldas for his wife Pratima Parekh. It is currently owned by Snehal Parekh.
 
  
  “My mother first saw this car in Paris and said something to the effect that she liked it,” said Parekh. “On their return, my father immediately bought one as a gift for her. We have had many such cars — Cadillacs, DeSotos — over the years. Of course they weren’t as valued then. We retained this one because of the special connection with my mother.”
 
 Following the Chevrolet Bel Air in Nehru’s motorcade on Nehru Bridge was a 1956 Dodge Suburban Custom, the Ahmedabad police commissioner’s car at the time. This car will also be on show on January 27.
 
  
  “The Dodge was originally owned by the government of the Bombay state and was presented as a goodwill gesture to the new Gujarat government,” said Chirag Mehta, the car’s current owner, a  . “It was the state car for quite some time and was used to pick up dignitaries such as Nehru, Lal Bahadur Shastri among others from the airport. It was auctioned by the Gujarat government around 1962-63 and was bought by my family.”
 
 Mehta will also show his 1961 Italian Fiat, a 1946 Willys CJ2A jeep and a 1960 Willys CJ-3B at the show.
 
 Moving, revving pieces of heritage to be on show 
 
 Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Vintage and   (GVCCC), will organize the ‘Ahmedabad Heritage Car Show’ at Aman-Akash Party Plot near Shreyas Crossing on January 27. This is the fourth edition of this biennial show and will be open to public from 10am to 9pm. Sixty vintage cars and 26 classic motorcycles will be on display.
 
 The oldest car on display will be a 1906 Mors, which is part of the Pranlal Bhogilal collection at Dastan Farm in Kathwada, India’s largest vintage car museum.
 
 “Vintage cars are an important part of our heritage as they are represent a particular time of our history and a particular stage in how cars evolved,” said Subodh Nath, the founder of GVCCC, who is also an automotive restorer and collector. “Each tells a story and has something distinct that makes it stand out from others. These are important pieces of our living, moving history.” Nath said unrestored and restored cars of the same model will be displayed to show the public the kind of effort that goes into restoration.
 
 The small club of car restorers has found an ally in technology, according to Chandan Nath, a  . “The internet has become our biggest asset especially in sourcing genuine parts. What earlier took months of searching, is now all there on the internet,” says Chandan Nath. “This is also raising the standards of restoration in India. With groups and clubs of enthusiasts also connecting over the web, these platforms are creating value in terms of prices of vintage cars.”
 
 Navroz Tarapore, a city-based businessman and vintage car collector, said: “Gujarat and Saurashtra together had the largest number of princely states in the pre-Independence period. These princely families also had many unique, custom-made cars.” Unfortunately, many of these were lost over time, Tarapore said. “Now, as awareness about the value of these cars grows, a lot of them are restored and sometimes even re-imported into the country,” he said.
 
 
