Actress   has allegedly been receiving death threats and obscene messages from some members of the   community, who have been pursuing the black buck poaching case against   for 20 years. Last week, the Jodhpur sessions court had sentenced the actor to five years’ imprisonment in the 1998 case. He was later released on bail. 

 Talking to us about how the controversy started, Kunickaa, who has worked with Salman in four films, including ' ', says, “During television debates on the black buck poaching case, I was advocating that instead of punishing Salman, the Bishnoi community should use him as an example and not oppose the bail. Ideally, he should be made to do some work for the community, like breeding black bucks, adopting a jungle, etc. On one such panel discussion last week, I said that even Bishnois are hunters. I wanted to add that just like there are non-vegetarians in vegetarian communities, likewise... but I was interrupted by the anchor.”
 
 Soon,   was inundated with phone calls. “A person called Santosh Bishnoi called me and wanted me to apologise for what I had said on television and I agreed, as I had no proof about Bishnois being non-vegetarian; I had only heard about it from a man in Kota. However, the phone calls did not stop, there were messages on Facebook, too. They threatened to file a case against me. By then, I’d had enough and I posted a video online, apologising for my statement. I also talked about the harassment.” As soon as she posted the video, more online threats followed.
 
 The actress then put up another post to state that she has kept a record of all the messages and calls. Finally, she filed a police complaint. “I filed a case under Section 507 against the Bishnoi community. I handed over all the details, including the numbers from which I received the calls, and screenshots of the lewd messages. They have leaked my address and phone numbers on social media and violated my privacy. I have got police protection, now it is up to them to take action.” 
 An official from Mumbai’s   says, “She has filed a complaint under Section 506/507 after receiving threats. Investigations are on and we are looking into the matter. Till then, we have given her police protection.” Meanwhile, representatives of the Bishnoi community posted pictures of the complaint they had filed against the actress in Jodhpur, stating that she had hurt their sentiments. However, Kunickaa claims that she has not been officially informed. “I am fine with those who have taken the legal route, but I have not received any official intimation about it. Having said that, I have a right to speak and right to an opinion.”
 
