CHANDIGARH: The online registration process to get admission into Chandigarh engineering colleges, excluding   (PEC), will start on June 5 at 10 am. The students can fill their choices for the engineering streams from July 8 to July 11 and can lock their choices on July 11. The first round of seat allotment will take place on July 12 at 8pm and the candidates can submit online fee from July 12 to July 16 till 5pm. 

 
  
 
 The last date for online registration is June 30. 
 
 The students will have to register online on the website of joint admission committee (JAC) 2018 to get admissions into five colleges of the city. The second round of counselling will commence on July 17 and the candidates can submit and lock their choices for the second round from July 17 to July 19 till 5pm. The candidates will be allotted seat for the second round of seat allotment on July 20 at 8pm.
 
 “The seat matrix for the UIET remains same except for increase in seats for the disabled students. The quota for persons with disability (PWD) has increased from 3% to 5% in UIET,” said Prof J K Goswami, professor in-charge of the admission committee of UIET. 
 
 These colleges include   Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Chandigarh; Dr SS Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology, Chandigarh; Chandigarh College of Engineering & Technology, Chandigarh, UIET, SSG Regional Centre, Hoshiarpur and Chandigarh College of Architecture, Chandigarh. This year, Punjab   (PEC) (deemed to be University) will not participate in the JAC and students wanting to get admission into PEC will now have to apply through JOSAA/CSAB. 
 
 The third round of counselling will begin on July 24 and the candidates applying can submit and lock their choices from July 24 to July 26 till 5pm. The candidates participating in the third round of counselling will be allotted seats on July 27 at 8pm and after the allotment of seats, these candidates can submit their fee online from July 27 to July 30 till 5pm.
 
 
