GAYA: Governor-cum-Chancellor   will soon convene a meeting of six vice chancellors (VCs) to work out the issues that may hinder smooth division of assets, liabilities and man power sharing between the three old universities and their off shoots. Besides, the VCs of Magadh, Pataliputra, Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University (TMBU), Bhagalpur, Munger, Madhepura and Purnia universities, representative of the state government will participate in the meet tentatively scheduled for March 28.

 Sources also say that the meet is being convened to bring uniformity in the formula for division of assets and liabilities and ensure a time-bound transfer mechanism. 
 
 While Pataliputra University has been carved out of  , Munger University has been craved out of Tilka Manjhi University, Bhagalpur and Purnia University has been created by dividing BN Mandal University, Madhepura.
 
 There is also some ambiguity about the jurisdiction of Munger university. The ambiguity pertains to the status of colleges located in Begusarai. Asked about the fate of colleges located in Begusarai, Munger University vice-   Ranjit Kumar Verma said he is not in a position to say anything on the issue.
 
 About his priorities,  , who taught chemistry in Magadh University (MU) Bodh  , said getting UGC recognition for the university is his first priority. Reminded about the requirement of 40 acre area and a minimum of six independent post graduate departments for being given UGC recognition, the university’s first VC said he is yet to settle down in his office.
 
 Magadh University too has framed a formula for the division of non-teaching employees of the university headquarters. There are about 500 non-teaching employees at the headquarters. About 100 of the nearly 500 non-teaching employees are either ill or on the verge of retirement. Employees having serious health issues and a short period left for superannuation, would not be disturbed. About 73% of the remaining 400 employees would be shifted to Patna-based Pataliputra University.
 
 As per the formula, employees figuring on number 1 of the university roster would remain in MU, while those on number 2, 3 and 4 will be shifted to Patna. The same system will be repeated on employees figuring on the number 6 position onwards.
 
 
