MOHALI: With the summer season at its peak, various incidents of cars catching fire on the road are being reported. A car fire can be caused due to a variety of reasons. According to experts, one of the cause is   of vehicles done with poor quality of   and loose wire fittings in the car.

 
  
  
 Another major reason of vehicles catching fire various gases that gather in the fuel tank while the vehicle is exposed to direct and extreme sunlight for long duration. Apart from that, manufacturing fault is also a cause of fire in the vehicle. It, however, happens very rarely. 
 
 According to the experts, after buying the vehicle several people install accessories like LED bulbs, amplifier, speakers and rear cameras in their vehicle from local and unauthorized dealers. Poor quality of accessories used for modify the vehicles and under-trained technicians, who install poor quality of wire fitting in the car leading lead to short-circuit in summer season.
 
 Also, gases gathers in the vehicle when it is kept standing in extreme sunlight over a long period of time and can lead to a fire incident. 
 
 Deepak Joshi, managing director of Joshi AutoZone Pvt. Ltd, Chandigarh, said, “Car fires happen mainly due to gases that get accumulated in the fuel tank due to atmospheric heat and if the tank is completely filled, gases trapped in the tank finding no place to escape. Due to there can be an explosion leading to an fire incident.” 
 
 His advice to car owners is that they should “never” fill fuel tank completely. “People should keep fuel levels between half and two thirds so that tank does not turn into a gas chamber. Apart from that always keep a fire extinguisher (dry type) in the car to avoid such emergency situation.”
 
 Owner of Saluja Motors BS Saluja said, “Cars catch fires due to fitting external done by the vehicle owners from private dealers. Most of times people modify their vehicles from unauthorized dealers and mechanics. They get LEB bulbs, amplifier, speakers and other things installed in the car. During the process, may times the unauthorized dealers leave wires loose during the fitting. Due to improper fitting and extra load on wires vehicles catch fire.” 
 
 He advised people to do not make changes in external fitting of the vehicle. “It car owners want to modify their vehicles, then they should approach authorized dealers for the same.” 
 
 On May 20, two vehicles had caught fire in separate incidents in   district. While one incident occurred in Sector 91, the other took place on Airport Road. A day esrlier also a school boy had a narrow escape when he was trapped in a parked car that accidentally caught fire. The incident took place in Sector 60.
 
 While on April 5 a man had a narrow escape after a   car accidentally caught fire on Airport Road near Sector 82, a 20-year-old student died when his motorcycle crashed into the median on Sector 14-15 dividing road in Chandigarh and caught fire.
 
 
