BHOPAL: Taking suo-motu cognizance of the   case of a four-year-old girl at a well-known kindergarten school in Indore on December 8, Madhya   (MPPCRC) on Monday sent a team to probe the case, in which three female teachers have been detained so far. The panel is of the view that more children may have been sexually assaulted. The   team would reach Indore on January 2. The commission has also received complaints from the victim’s parents that police investigation was not yielding any result.

 On December 8, a woman along with her four-year-old daughter had approached Malharganj police in Indore alleging that her daughter was sexually abused by three of her female teachers at the school. “This case is highly disturbing as it involves three female teachers who have sexually harassed the girl as per preliminary investigation. We have taken suo-motu notice in this matter and formed a team to investigate the case,” said Raghuvendra Sharma, chairman of MPPCRC.
 
 Sharma said that the matter needs to be dealt at par with a high profile case, because it likely that more children may have been abused and the team will also to find out why there is an involvement of female teachers. The mobile phones of the three teachers have been taken in custody and sent for forensic examination to Hyderabad.
 
 Sharma said the confiscated mobile phones of the teachers may provide some lead as forensic lab is in process of retrieving the deleted data, if any. “Although police is on the job, our team will seek report on the present status of the case and will also check how much it has progressed since the investigation started. We have also sought counselling and forensic report from the police also,” he added.
 
 The statement of the child was recorded and the matter was thereafter transferred to Chhatripura police station. The teachers were detained for questioning and the CCTV footage of the school was seized. According to the statement of the minor on December 8, her teachers had inserted fingers into her private parts and groped her. They also beat her up while doing so and made a video of it. The family had pulled out pictures of all the teachers from the school WhatsApp group and had asked her to recognize the accused trio. The three teachers were detained after the minor identified them before the investigating team.
 
 
