Nagpur: Private contractors attached to Military Engineering Services (MES) will be holding a daylong strike on February 1 and then later indefinitely too if their payments, which have been withheld since 5-6 months, are not made. “The organization has run out of funds leaving a backlog of at least Rs1,000 crore,” they say, adding that the delay is “unusual”. 

 According to rough calculations put up by the MES Builders’ Association of India, the total dues are for the entire country. MES is the wing of the army which takes up construction of civil works in the defence areas.
 
 Contractors say that they have been informally told that MES has run out of funds. MES gets an allocation in the form of maintenance funds. The funds have been exhausted by October-November depending on the stations. At this point, there is nothing to spare for the contractors till a fresh allocation is made in the new fiscal.
 
 “The association has written a letter to defence minister   apprising her about the situation. Since MES works are related to the defence services, the contractors generally do not go strikes. However, the delay has been inordinate this time,” said Balbirsing  , the general secretary of  . 
 
 A similar situation has arisen five years ago and contractors had resorted to a day’s strike.
 
 Vij said the topic was taken up with the defence minister during her visit to Andaman & Nicobar Islands by contractors of that region. “The minister was on a visit to celebrate Diwali with the troops stationed at the islands. The contractors submitted a memorandum to her which led to Rs40 crore being released. But that was only for the contractors operating in the Andaman & Nicobar Islands, others are still awaiting for their dues to be cleared. The matter was again raised before Union minister of home Rajnath Singh during MES’ annual day function. Singh had assured that there is no dearth of funds for defence works,” he said.
 
 “The annual day was held on January 12. Since there has been no development after that the contractors have planned to go on a strike. If the matter is not resolved in 15 days there are plans for an indefinite strike,” said Vij.
 
 
