Coimbatore: A Nanjappan, 45, a daily wage labourer from Ganeshapuram near Podanur, waited for more than three hours with his wife to board a bus to Trichy from Singanallur bus stand on Friday. The couple’s plan to go on a pilgrimage to Thirunallar went haywire.  Like the couple, many passengers at the Singanallur bus stand also cancelled their trips owing to state-wide indefinite bus strike called by various unions. Though some private buses operated from Singanallur to Tirupur, Madurai and Karur, there were no services to Tirunelveli, Nagercoil and Tuticorin. “A few news channels telecasted that buses were playing in Coimbatore city on Friday morning. So, we decided to visit Thirunallar to offer our prayers in temples there. We waited for three hours at the Singanallur bus stand to catch a bus to Trichy. Later, we learned that there was no TNSTC mofussil bus service to Trichy from Singanallur bus stand. Though there was a private omni bus to Trichy, we didn’t board the bus as fare was very expensive. So, we decided to cancel the trip,” said Nanjappan. A private bus was allowed to operate from Singanallur to Madurai on Friday morning. The private bus operator collected Rs 150 per head to travel to Madurai. Likewise, an omni bus operator collected Rs 200-Rs Rs 250 to Trichy from Singanallur bus stand. Many passengers cancelled their trips to neighbouring districts due to the strike.  More than 200 passengers were seen waiting at the Ukkadam bus stand in the afternoon. They did not get bus services to their towns and villages including Malumichampatti, Madukkarai, Kinathukadavu and surrounding areas. Only a mini bus was operated to Neelambur and Kinathukadavu.  “The TNSTC and regional transport officials had given permission to operate our mini buses to any part of the Coimbatore district from Ukkadam bus stand. So, we operated the bus to various places of Coimbatore,” said one of the private minibus conductors. A Hariharan, hails from Velanthavalam on the outskirts of the city, is pursuing first year BA (economics) at CBM College in Kovaipudur. He was waiting to board a bus to return to his home town from Ukkadam bus stand on Friday afternoon. He said that he managed to reach the college where only few students attended the class. So, he returned to Ukkadam to board a bus to Velanthavalam. But he waited for a bus for more than three hours at Ukkadam.  Many private operators operated buses to Pollachi, Udumalpet from Ukkadam bus stand.