

 Wearing threads of asymmetric jasmine flowers over her blow-dried hair, this socialite stepped out to a nightclub. No harm in that. But what bystanders found funny was the way she stepped out to smoke and returned with an awful odour. Apparently, the bunch of girls who were with her chose to shift tables as they couldn’t bear her smokey fragrance. Now, we are wondering what brand she smokes... Or is it something more fishy than a 
 branded packet? 
 
  
 
 Kodaikanal is the place to spot TN’s most successful and wealthy during summer. Most of them have sprawling estates that are a picture of old-world charm. Dr   has a 2-acre haven of flora and fauna which was once a guesthouse of her late father, Gemini Ganesan. Other fancy homes in Kodaikanal are said to be those of  , the former head honcho of BCCI, Bharat Raman, the affable former Advocate General and N Shankar of The Sanmar group. Pramila Anand, a granite baroness is said to host her girl-gang at her home in Kodai every summer. And according to our sources, the homes of Apollo sisters and the Vijaya Studios Nagi Reddy family are supposed to be the most luxurious. 
 
  
 
 National Award winning actor Bobby Simha we hear loves cars. In fact his first indulgence when he began making big money was a BMW X6. Friends close to the actor reveal that he has gone on to buy some of the latest cars as he is obsessed with luxury SUVs. And guess who is car advisor is? His close actor buddy  . 
 
  
 
 This is taking the playboy syndrome to another level. These two brothers from a very well-known Punjabi family, we hear, love to to play ‘who will snag the target (girl) first’. Last heard, they were both out at a plush bar along with their parents, who run an empire of a product used in the publishing industry. And they had their target set even before they arrived at the party. The quieter and more reticent older brother, who has a notorious reputation for drunk-driving and bed-hopping, worked his charm and managed to lure the lady for a dinner date the next day. But the best part of the story is that their dad turned up at the same coffee shop, too! 
 
  
 
 Everyone knows that the powerful and dynamic Chief  , Indira Banerjee, is a no-nonsense woman who has an exemplary record of quick disposal of cases and pushing for women empowerment. But what is little known is her love for soulful classical music and her love affair with saris. It seems the lady, who spends most of her time attending to court work and monitoring justice and its upkeep, loves to shop for saris. Often, her female colleagues discuss her attire and try to shop like her.
 
 
 This shy and reticent dermatologist Bhairavi maybe the go-to gal for all things beauty but she herself we hear is termed the "Naomi Campbell" of Chennai. A long list of high powered women aside, there is a longer list of powerful men who come to her to fix their brows, lips and even thinning hair. Why her? "She's easy on the eye and knows her stuff" said a top actor in the city. 
 
  
 
 When there are big luxury launches in the city, some socialites are happier clicking selfies rather than checking out the brand goodies. It has been noticed time and again that these launches serve as great photo ops and nothing else really worthwhile for the brands. Unlike Mumbai or Delhi, it seems Chennai socialites or at least the ones who pride themselves as one never shop. It is the ones who come very early shop and leave that make the brand heads happy. Or the ones who come after the cameras have disappeared to really shop. The rest come to click selfies and then speak of overpriced items. Knowing fully well that these international brands don't come cheap, why bother coming to the event and then talking ill of the brand?
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own)
 
 
 
  
 
 
