American actress and humanitarian   will marry   in England’s   today. The couple recently requested their well-wishers across the globe to consider donating to charity, instead of sending them lavish gifts on their big day. Prince Harry and Meghan chose seven charitable organisations across the world, which represent a range of issues that they are passionate about, including sports for social change, women empowerment, conservation of the environment, homelessness, HIV and the Armed Forces. While a statement from the royal family clarified that they do not have any formal relationships with the charities chosen, this initiative of choosing relatively smaller NGOs was to highlight their work. 

 Interestingly, one among the seven grass-root charities chosen happens to be a Mumbai-based foundation that works towards empowering women in the slum areas. They also spread awareness about menstrual hygiene by giving women access to low-cost sanitary pads, which are manufactured locally by them. Co-founders   and Meena Jagdish Ramani took BT on a tour of their   in Govandi, also reminiscing Meghan’s two-day visit to their office in Mumbai last year. The women couldn’t contain their excitement on being acknowledged by Meghan. “We’ve been inundated with international calls since. Some of us are even attending her wedding,” said a young volunteer, beaming with pride. 
 Suhani, 23, will be at the wedding, too. She said, "“I am excited to attend the wedding along with three other members from our NGO. I am also looking forward to meeting Priyanka Chopra”
 
  
  
 
 Speaking about her cause, she added, “While studying in the United States, and during a fellowship programme, I realised how grave the problems that plague women in India are. There’s no preventive care at all.” Suhani said, “Women in India tend to look after their health only when there’s an emergency. So, we decided to make these women financially independent, as that gives you a lot of strength. Once you have financial stability, no man can tell a woman, ghar se nikal jao. I was shocked when I discovered that women in slum areas took pills that caused constipation, so that they don’t have to walk long distances to reach the public toilet. They compromised on their health and that made me wonder where women stand in our society. The fact that you can live by yourself is most empowering and that was the thought behind this foundation.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Meghan visited Mumbai for the foundation in January last year. When asked what brought her here, Suhani said, “I met her in April 2016 in New York for an awards ceremony that felicitated women. I was one among the ten girls selected for the award and she was a mentor to one of the other girls. Since I won the grand prize at the event, information about my initiative in India was announced and she heard about it. At that time, she was best known for her show Suits, and since I had not seen the show, I had no idea who she was. We didn’t speak much except for clicking a selfie. Couple of months later, she approached us and expressed her desire to come to India, as she didn’t know the menstrual hygiene problems were that grave here.
 
 
 
 What impressed Suhani about Meghan is that she didn’t overreact to things. She said, “I was concerned that Meghan might be one of those who would glamourise the issue over how some girls skip school in India when they have periods. But thankfully, she didn’t think of the problem as worse than it actually was, like most foreigners do. She had worked on this issue in Africa as well. She was well aware, so she didn’t ask basic questions like, ‘Why not use tampons?’ She knew the challenges we faced in India, some of them being basic issues like water scarcity. She spoke of actionable steps and that was the reason we had that genuine connection. She didn’t pretend to be what she was not. When she was here, this place didn’t even have electricity, but that didn’t seem to bother her.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Priyanka Chopra, who will be attending the royal wedding today, has been a close friend of Meghan. In fact, Priyanka’s security escorted Meghan when she visited the Govandi office twice last year. Suhani said, “She visited women in their homes around. She also shared a meal with us. We even got a sari and blouse stitched for her overnight. We got bangles for her and helped her drape the sari on her. She is one of the most humble people we’ve met.” 
 
  
  
 
