GURGAON: The mystery around the death of businessman Hitesh  , 32, who fell to his death from the 10th floor balcony of his flat in Uniworld Gardens 1 in Sector 47, took a fresh turn on Tuesday after Saini’s sister arrived from Guwahati and filed a police complaint. 

 She alleged Hitesh’s wife   and his in-laws had conspired to kill him after he had refused to concede to their demands of selling off his property.   approached police along with other relatives to complain that Saini had a 1,000 sq yd property in Delhi’s   that Yesha and her family had been pressuring him to sell off. They had apparently wanted the money to spend on Yesha’s sister’s wedding. In her police complaint, Chowdhary has also named Saini’s father-in-law and mother-in-law. 
 
 Meanwhile, Yesha and her family also approached police on Tuesday, saying Saini was depressed and had been having fights with his sister, which could have prompted him to commit suicide.
 
 Police said the post-mortem, which has been delayed as the sister kept changing her statement, will now be carried out on Wednesday. Apparently, she had initially filed a complaint asking for a probe, and had only later added the names of people who were present in the house to the complaint. She also told police that Saini was regularly involved in fights with his wife while they lived in Sainik Farms, something that she claimed has been reported to Delhi Police in the past.
 
 Police said they have interrogated all 11-12 people who were present in the house at the time of the mishap, all of whom have denied seeing Saini fall. They were apparently huddled around an angeethi (coal-fired heater) in another balcony. The husband and wife had apparently left to put their three-year-old to sleep, when the mishap happened. Sadar police station SHO inspector Vijay Kumar said they have found some marks on the balcony from which Saini fell, which could indicate he had tried to resist being thrown off, but added that it was too early to confirm anything. 
 
 Hitesh Saini was found dead around 1-1.30am on Monday, after he fell from the 10th floor balcony of his flat. Cops said they were informed of the mishap at 1.30am. The first responders included society guards and one of the society’s residents, who also tried to take Saini to hospital before Saini’s guests arrived to take over. The exact sequence of events of the fateful night has come under suspicion, as police said no one in the house claims to have seen Saini fall.
 
 
