MUMBAI: The government on Friday moved to attach all   of the key   in the Rs 11,300 crore Punjab National Bank fraud, including assets of the companies owned by the accused. The accused include Nirav Modi, his wife Ami Modi, his brother Nishaal Modi and uncle Mehul Choksi.

 On Friday, the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) with a petition under sections 221 and 222 of the Companies Act which allows freezing of all assets of 64 respondents in the Nirav Modi case. 
 
 Besides family members, the respondents include companies and trusts belonging to them. The next date of hearing has been set for February 27.
 
 While government agencies have been seizing jewellery and cars and attaching immovable properties of the accused these are time-bound attachments. The MCA's move in the NCLT is aimed at preventing the accused or their agents from alienating their property. The petition was filed by MCA's joint legal director before the NCLT bench headed by B.S.V. Prakash Kumar.
 
 Legal experts say that the government had the option of acquiring the companies the way it took over Satyam Computers after a massive fraud in 2009. However, if the government did take over the companies there would be no major advantage as it would not have a functioning business to run and would only be managing liabilities.
 
 The other route for distribution of assets would be the initiation of insolvency proceedings where the creditors (mostly banks) get priority over everyone else. One challenge lenders will face in insolvency proceedings is that there is no loan contract against which the Rs 11,300 crore of guarantees (letters of undertaking) were provided. Also there is a strict six-month timeline for finalizing a resolution under the insolvency process. 
 
 “Once an account is declared as non-performing assets, lenders can, without notice, trigger insolvency proceedings. This means resolution at the first instance and if that fails, then liquidation,” said R S Loona, MD of Alliance Law, a corporate law firm. “The condition for admissibility is there in NCLT court and if it is met, the tribunal will admit it,” he said. According to banking sources, ICICI Bank—the lead bank for Gitanjali Gems—is likely to initiate insolvency proceedings.
 
 One area of concern is that the employees have been told to go their own way as all assets have been seized. “In an insolvency proceeding in the NCLT, the creditor’s claims trump both—claims of the employees and the government,” said a lawyer with a corporate law firm.
 
 In the case of Satyam, the government takeover happened under the old Companies Act. At that time, the Central government dissolved the board and appointed eminent persons like Deepak Parekh as nominees to run the company as there was a functioning business.
 
 According to Loona, another issue pertains to the assets already seized by the Enforcement Directorate. “The assets seized by the CBI or ED are governed by the powers of the CBI court. The CBI court and the NCLT or some other court will have to decide who will have the assets,” he said. Bankers say that chances of someone coming up to buy the company are slim given the several reports that say the assets are overvalued.
 
 
