When the   announced the country was 100% electrified, a little detail missed us. Given that to be certified ‘electrified’, only 10% households in a village need to have   to electricity, the 100% electrification still had a sizeable 17% rural households without electricity. That means   had reached their village but not their homes yet. A look at how the states fare on the power grid, literally. 
 
 The definition of an electrified village changed down the years.
 
 
 
 A village where electricity is used for any purpose in its revenue boundary.
 
  
 
 A village where electricity is used for any purpose in the inhabited locality within its revenue boundary.
 
 
 
 
  A village with basic power infrastructure such as transformer and distribution line provided to inhabited locality including Dalit hamlet.
 
 Electricity provided to public places like schools, panchayat offices etc.
 
 At least 10% households in the village should have electricity.
 
 
 
 
 
 : Only 3,061 villages had electricity.
 
 
 : 45,000+ villages covered in planned electrification plan.
 
 
 : 2 lakh+ villages and over a crore pump sets energised.
 
 
  2.2 lakh villages electrified, 43 lakh more pump sets energised. Initiative for inclusive electrification launched. Kutir Jyoti Programme launched to provide single point connections to BPL households in 1988-89.
 
  
 : The economic liberalisation era saw slowest pace of rural electrification. Deteriorating financial conditions of state electricity boards slowed down the tempo as only 44,000 villages were electrified in this period.
 
 
 : Focus shifted to household, rather than village electrification. Rajiv Gandhi Grameen Vidyutikaran Yojana (RGGVY)
 launched in March 2005 to give access to electricity to all households and free electricity to all BPL homes. DDU Gram Jyoti Yojana launched in December 2014, included components of all previous Modi’s Saubhagya scheme was to fund the cost of last mile connectivity.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Since a village is considered electrified if just 10% of its households have an electricity connection, there is ample scope that many families may not have electricity despite living in an electrified village. As per data on Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana — Saubhagya — 17.4% rural households are yet to be electrified despite the achievement of 100% village electrification .
 
 
 
 
 Power minister RK Singh said the deadline of 100% household electrification by March 31, 2019, has been advanced to December 31, 2018. Average electrification rate for Jan-April period for which monthly electrification data is available shows that it seems unlikely government will be able to electrify all households at the same pace. Among states with highest unelectrified households MP will be the only one to achieve this if its pace of electrification remains what it’s been the last four months.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
