KOLKATA: What started off as sitarist   Shankar’s online campaign running up to International Women’s Day, has now inspired women in Kolkata to draw up their own bucket list of things they are fed up with. Social activists to teachers to designers and transgender rights activists, women from all walks of life are proudly announcing what they refuse to accept any longer. Following Shankar’s campaign trail, all their posts come with #ImDone.

 On Tuesday, fashion designer Such ismita   posted on Facebook: “I’m done with patriarchy, with fighting every day for equality which should be my birth right! I’m done with having to prove myself all the time in both personal and professional life, done with having to give explanation for choices I make! I’m done with women pulling down other women! I’m done with the concept that a woman must be a Ma Durga!”
 
 Tumpa Mukherjee, assistant professor of sociology at Women’s Christian College, highlighted she will no longer tolerate the “women in positions of power exploiting other women”. “I’m done with feeling bad for saying what is right,” she wrote.
 
 For entertainment channel professional  , #ImDone is as powerful as the #metoo campaign. “It’s time we decided what’s enough for us and also let the world know about it. Anoushka’s twitter video prompted me to spell out my choices too,” Dasgupta said. Her post read: “I’m done with fighting against odds at workplace. I’m done with lusty people trying to make me uncomfortable wherever possible. And yes, I’m done with telling people what I am. It’s time to be ME”.
 
 Other issues were also highlighted. Mukherjee wrote about not wanting to watch bad Bengali films in the name of “intellectual cinema”. Social activist Saira Shah Halim’s post spoke about the farmers’ long march in  . “Quite done with folks giving political colour to every social initiative, the #FarmersPlight is a genuine distress call, quite surprised about the ‘whataboutery’ going on in its name, the apathy around — a new low, honestly #Iam-Done.” Atri Kar, who will be the first transgender from   to write the civil services examinationposted: “#ImDone I’m done with people who can’t respect my gender preference. I’m done with people who don’t understand transgenders need their rights as much as people from other genders. I’m done with hypocrites who say they will fight for our rights to get their share of publicity but in reality don’t do anything for us”.
 
 
