HYDERABAD: A tiff three days ago may have been the trigger for the murder of Intermediate student Sudheer, who was hacked to death while on his way to the exam centre. After the fight, an assault case was registered against Sudheer’s friends at Kukatpally police station. Subsequently,   his rivals.

 
 A few days ago, Krishna, a labourer from Moosapet, had an argument with Sudheer’s father Palaraju and accused him of informing police about their illegal activities. “Krishna and his friend Mahesh, a vegetable vendor of Bharat Nagar, suspected that Palaraju recorded the two stealing at Moosapet on his cell phone and informed police. Krishna threatened Palaraju and when Sudheer got to know about it, he had an argument with Krishna,” Kukatpally police said. 
  
 
 On Friday night, Sudheer’s friends attacked Krishna’s friends. On Saturday, their friend Srikanth lodged a complaint against Sudheer’s group and a case was registered against four persons under Section 324 (assault) of the IPC at the Kukatpally police station. “Sudheer threatened to kill Mahesh and the latter along with Krishna, Teja and Naveen hatched a plan to eliminate Sudheer,” Kukatpally police said.
 
 
 As per the plan, they purchased hunting sickles at   X Roads in Kukatpally on Sunday and killed Sudheer on Monday morning. “They dragged Sudheer from the bike and when he tried to jump over the divider to escape, they pulled him back and hacked him to death. We tried to save him, but they threatened us with sickles,” Sudheer’s friend Sai Krishna, who was riding on the bike with him at the time of attack, said.
 
 
 After the attack, traffic   Prabhakar and home guard Anji reached the spot from nearby Kukatpally police station and tried to nab the offenders. They were joined by head constable KN Raju and home guard Mallesh, who were posted at nearby government college for ongoing Intermediate exams. “The assailants threatened our cops too with sickles, but they hurled stones at the assailants and pinned down one of them,” a Kukatpally traffic police officer said.
 
 
 Police handed over the nabbed assailant, Naveen, a painter, to the investigating officer, while other accused were reportedly picked up later in the night from different places in the city.
 
 
 Fearing retaliation, the families of the assailants locked their houses and fled. “We have put up police pickets near their houses in Moosapet. Patrolling has also been intensified to prevent any untoward incidents,” ACP, Kukatpally,   said.
 
 
 Police seized two hunting sickles from crime scene and a case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC. Sudheer is survived by his parents and three elder brothers.
 
