PATNA: The cases against CPI (Maoist) sub-zonal commander Anil Ram are likely to be handed over to the   (NIA) to probe terror funding. Anil, along with Dilip Ram and Sunil Kumar Rai, was arrested from Shri Ganesh Dutt Nagar in Muzaffarpur on Saturday night.

 Sources said the matter would be discussed at a high-level meeting scheduled to be presided over by the central government’s senior security adviser for left wing extremism (LWE) K Vijay Kumar in New Delhi on Tuesday. NIA officers, paramilitary forces, police officers from LWE affected states would also attend the meeting.
 
 Sources said it would be the first case for the NIA to probe against any Maoist in Bihar from the angle of terror funding. Anil carried a reward of Rs50,000 announced by the Bihar government on his head. The STF team also seized Rs8.93 lakh collected as levy, detonators, banned literatures, receipts, sale deeds of flats, plots and documents of two trucks purchased by Anil.
 
 STF sources said Anil was active in Muzaffarpur and Vaishali districts. More than 40 cases of violence, extortion, murder and other heinous crimes are lodged against Anil and his associates. He was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.
 
 Later, Anil’s another associate Kamlesh Bhagat was arrested from Baruraj with arms and ammunition. It was on Anil’s information that a Bihar STF team rushed to Dhanbad and arrested on Sunday another sub-zonal commander of CPI (Maoist) Vimal Yadav, who carried Rs5 lakh reward announced by the Jharkhand government on his head.
 
 STF sources said Anil was funding Maoist activities. “The main objective behind roping in NIA is to plug the financial resources of Maoists in Bihar and the neighbouring state. It’s a specialized agency for such investigation,” sources said.
 
 They said several road and bridge construction firms, brick kilns, petrol pumps and other business establishments in north Bihar were clandestinely paying levy to Anil. “He named several such sources from where huge levy was collected. Political links of Anil might also surface in the NIA investigation,” sources said.
 
 The sources said Anil was the main person after his commander Musafir Sahni was arrested on May 11 last year from Muzaffarpur. His property details are being investigated and to be attached by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).
 
 
