PANAJI: After battling to reduce   cases for almost a decade, the state government is aiming to achieve zero indigenous malaria transmissions and zero malaria deaths by 2020.

 In 2007, Goa registered 9,755 malaria cases. Within a 10-year period, it has managed to significantly control the spread of malaria.
 
 
  
 
 In 2017, 578 malaria cases were reported, including one death. Deputy director, national vector-borne disease control programme, Dr   said Goa is listed among 15 other states under Category I to meet the target of “zero malaria transmissions and zero malaria deaths” in 2020.
 
 “Of the 32 centres, eight have achieved zero annual parasite incidence (API) level,” Palekar said, adding they are rigorously working to meet their target.
 
 Centres which have achieved zero API are Valpoi, Canacona, Sanquelim and Mayem in  , and Cansaulim, Curchorem, Loutolim and Quepem in South Goa.
 
 A drop in API to zero level in the subject area signifies that malaria cases are not reported in that area.
 
 For any subsequent case of malaria reported from that area, a source of infection will be examined to see if it is an imported infection. A surveillance will be carried out to check if there were more cases in the area before reaching any conclusion, Palekar said.
 
 “There is a possibility that a person may have picked up the infection elsewhere, if no more cases are reported from that area. If a Valpoi resident, who works at a hotel in Candolim on night shifts, suffers from malaria, it will be treated as a non-indigenous case if no other person is detected suffering from malaria,” said Palekar.
 
 He further said that the health department has been focusing on areas having API close to one or more than one and they are termed as ‘high-risk areas’ in terms of malaria infection which include Candolim, Siolim, Porvorim and Margao. These areas have comparatively higher incidences of malaria than other centres.
 
 Palekar said that though Goa has witnessed a steady decline in malaria cases over the years, health officials cannot afford to be complacent about it.
 
 In the nineties, Goa saw an explosion of malaria cases vis-à-vis a boon in construction activity. Various measures introduced over the years, including compulsory checking of labourers engaged on construction sites, fishing jetties, shacks, and issuance of health cards helped reduce malaria infections.
 
 
