NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday demanded   of the north corporation mayor,  , after it came to light that a vigilance inquiry had been initiated against her following allegations of corruption.  , which has in the past alleged that the corporations were neck-deep in corruption, also patted itself on the back over the development.

 AAP functionary Dilip Pandey alleged that the allegations against Agrawal were the tip of the iceberg and argued that it contradicts Delhi BJP’s claims of making the three corporations corruption-free. AAP demanded a   investigation into the allegations because it feels that the vigilance department of the corporation is not the competent agency to   cases of alleged corruption against the mayor.
 
 “The mayor used to barge into official meetings held for tendering and influence the process. She has violated all the laid down rules on tendering,” said Pandey. “The CVO cannot carry out an independent inquiry into the allegations as long as the mayor continues to remain on her post.” He demanded immediate sacking of the mayor. Though the CVO is appointed by the union home minister with the concurrence of the Central Vigilance Commission and has a fixed tenure, it reports to the civic body’s commissioner.
 
 AAP demanded that Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari should apologise to Delhi for his "failure" to check corruption in the BJP-led municipal corporations.
 
 AAP has 49 councillors in the three corporations where it holds the position of the party of opposition. The issue may dominate the upcoming meetings of the house of the north corporation where AAP councillors are set to aggressively raise the issue. “Last year we filed a PIL in the high court when we found irregularities in the south corporation’s action against illegal constructions,” said Pandey. 
 
 Delhi BJP general secretary Ravinder Gupta accused AAP of doing politics on the issue. “AAP was unusually quick in demanding the mayor’s resignation but they are silent on the allegations of corruption against Satyendra Jain. If chief minister Arvind Kejriwal resigns on that, we will also ask our mayor to resign,” said Gupta.
 
 
