HYDERABAD: The chief ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have agreed to meet soon to resolve all pending issues of bifurcation. This was informed by Governor ESL   to Union home minister   on Tuesday. 

 The governor, on a visit to the national capital, met the home minister and discussed issues related to the two states. He informed the minister that both K   and   have agreed to meet as early as possible to resolve the hurdles and hoped the meeting will happen soon. 
 
 Sources said Narasimhan informed Rajnath that the friction between the two states that developed following the bifurcation has eased due to regular interactions between the two CMs at different social functions. The governor told the home minister that most issues have been resolved and that only few like the transfer of buildings are pending. 
 
 The home minister is learnt to have lauded the efforts of the governor in bringing about peace and ensuring cordial relations between the two regions and maintaining friendly relations with all sections of society. The governor explained the successful completion of land purification programme by Telangana which gave relief to lakhs of people. He also informed Rajnath that the first phase of Mission Bhagiratha, a programme to provide safe drinking water to all households, is nearing completion as per schedule. Narasimhan also told Rajnath that law and order in Hyderabad city and other parts of Telangana is being maintained with the help of effective policing.
 
 
 
 
 Later, the Governor described the “hot meeting” with Telangana Congress leaders was a “family affair”. “In a family, children will fight for something and they may criticize the elders. That does not mean much. It is a family affair. Nothing much to react. These are all common happenings,” said Narasimhan.
 
 Congress and BJP leaders have criticized the Governor and alleged he is displaying bias towards the TRS government.
 
 AP CM Chandrababu Naidu and Telangana counterpart K Chandrasekhar Rao have agreed to settle pending issues of bifurcation, Governor   has said He told this to Union home minister Rajnath Singh The governor told Rajnath that bifurcation issues have eased as the two CMs met at vaious functions Congress and BJP leaders have criticized the Governor and alleged he is displaying bias towards the TRS government.
 
 
