K V  , 51, is contesting from   constituency against chief minister Siddaramaiah’s confidant and sitting MLA M K Somashekar and senior BJP leader S A Ramadas.

 A bachelor, Mallesh started his political career in 1991 by joining JD(S) and later winning the MCC election from Kuvempunagar ward in 2008 and second term in 2013. Mallesh was chairperson for health and later for taxation and finance committees. He has the credit of delivering the MCC budget under his belt. It is said that he missed the opportunity of becoming mayor for cross voting against JD(S) and supporting BJP, which had angered party supremo H D Deve Gowda.
 
 Excerpts:
 
 
 
 
 As a corporator for two consecutive terms, I initiated various development works in the ward which is part of the Krishnaraja constituency. My priorities were improving roads and parks, construction of stadium and gymnasium, improving UGD system and others. I developed my ward as one of the best in the city. During my tenure as chairperson of taxation and finance committee, MCC managed to collect around Rs 100 crore. So now I want to develop my constituency as one of the best in the state.
 
 
 
 
 Our leader former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda initiated various welfare programmes for the people during his tenure in the state as well as at the Centre. Similarly, H D Kumaraswamy also brought out many popular programmes during his tenure as chief minister, which people still remember. I am explaining the various programmes planned for the development of the constituency during door-to-door campaigning and there is good response from the people.
 
 
 
 At present, people of the state are disappointed and fed up with the national parties and their false promises. They are showing a leaning towards regional party JD(S) for good governance. I am confident of winning the election and don’t feel that there will be a triangular fight.
 
 
 
 
 As I regularly interact with a majority of resident welfare associations in the constituency and get involved in their activities, they too are supporting me. Youth associations like Suryodhaya Yuvaka Sangha and Anikethana Trust, who are active in the region, are lending their support. As JD(S) is in alliance with BSP, their activists are also seeking votes for me.
 
 
