NEW DELHI: The   on Monday   the   for   extending   to   in the capital since 2006 by   from time to time and not coming up with any   to deal with the problem.

 A bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta said Delhi could not be allowed to be destroyed as successive governments over the years had failed to put in place a mechanism to handle the issue of unauthorised constructions. The Centre had framed Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Act in 2006 to give protective cover for one year to illegal constructions and misuse of residential premises for commercial purposes in the city after the apex court had ordered the sealing drive against them.
 
 Although the law was framed to give protection for only one year, the Centre passed successive Acts and ordinances to extend the deadline and the last such law was passed by Parliament in December to protect illegal constructions till 2020.
 
 Raising questions over passage of temporary law year after year without addressing the real problem, the bench said such action seemed illegal on the face of it as a temporary statute could not be made permanent. It said the government had passed the law in 2006 saying it needed to collect data on unauthorised constructions in Delhi but twelve years down the line, the Centre still did not have the information as it failed to carry out any survey.
 
 Additional Solicitor General A N S Nadkarni, appearing for the Centre, told the bench that the law was passed to grant relief to the poor living in unauthorised colonies and was not meant to override the SC’s judgement to initiate sealing. 
 
 “The law was enacted on May 2006 to provide temporary relief to the people of Delhi against action for violation of the provisions of the Master Plan and building bye-laws for a period of one year to avoid hardship and loss to a large number of people. This was to enable the government to take a balanced and well-considered view on policies involving such unauthorised development so that development of Delhi takes place in a sustainable and planned manner and also provide temporary relief to persons residing or carrying out commercial activities or otherwise dependent upon such unauthorised development,” he said.
 
 Refuting the allegations of senior advocates Ranjit Kumar and A D N Rao, who are assisting the court as amicus curiae, that the Master Plan was amended to benefit a small minority of population, Nadkarni told the bench that it was a well thought out decision and it was not done at the “whims and outcry of a small group of people holding the city to ransom”.
 
 “A substantial portion of city population lives in slums/unauthorised colonies, therefore the government, being duty-bound to protect the poor, had to intervene on humanitarian grounds even as such inhabitants are encroaching on public or private land. It may be submitted that it was an emergent circumstance whereby people cannot be left to their fate as the unauthorised development that has happened was due to the failure of agencies to keep up with the growing demand. It is therefore imperative that the government frames policies for dealing with these unauthorised developments for inclusive development of all sections in Delhi” the Centre said in its affidavit.
 
 “It is submitted that uprooting this large number of people living in unauthorised areas without making alternative arrangements for their housing or living would not only deprive them of the right to shelter but also the right to livelihood. Such a course of action would have also resulted in law and order situation and mass unrest,” it said.
 
 
