NEW DELHI: This could be the last year that Shahnawaz Saifi studies in   in Sangam Vihar. His parents want to move the Class VI student to a Kendriya Vidyalaya next year because his school has poor road accessibility, a few, small rooms and not enough “padhai”. It won’t be easy transferring to a government institution, though, because Lord Krishna is an ‘unrecognised school’. However, continuing is no longer an option either because Delhi government has ordered such schools to cease operations.

 Unrecognised schools such as Lord Krishna do not find a place in the list of bona fide institutions maintained by the directorate of education, and their academic achievements aren’t always accepted by other schools. But for the capital’s citizens aspiring towards better education for their children, these schools offer the best alternative to government pedagogy. Not only do they offer ‘English-medium’ education, but they also charge an affordable fee unlike the recognised,  .
 
 In Sangam Vihar, almost every lane has a school, some even two. There’s also a government school in J Block and two others nearby, but as Pradeep Kumar said, “We cannot send our children to the   because they are too far for our small kids.” 
 
 In east Delhi’s Trilokpuri too, parents would rather send their kids, especially girls, to private schools. “In government schools, boys learn to cuss even when in the lower classes. We can’t have our children hanging out with them,” sniffed Babita Maurya, mother of a Class VIII girl student. The area abounds in unrecognised schools, each running out of small homes.
 
 Pretty Cambridge School, for one, started operating in Trilokpuri in 1974 out of four-five rooms on two floors, according to principal Vipin Dutta. In the mid-1980s, the school spiralled upwards. “It was built by my parents before the government school was set up. After they passed away, I had to take over,” claimed Dutta.
 
 The paradox is that these schools do not have official credentials but remain popular because they are run by familiar faces and are endorsed through word-of-mouth. When Maurya moved to Delhi five year ago, she went searching for good schools in the area for her daughter and a friend suggested one of the many in Trilokpuri’s lanes. “I never realised there was a government school in the vicinity. I was happy to find one that fit my budget,” Maurya told TOI. “The studies are not bad, but my daughter is getting older and I want to move her to a Kendriya Vidyalaya.”
 
 Schools to be recognised must have accessible roads, adequate infrastructure and a specified teacher-to-student ratio under both the Right to Education Act and the Delhi School Education Rule and Act. The unrecognised schools, therefore, are in clear defiance of the law, but English is a big deciding factor for parents when picking schools, and that’s where these schools score over government ones. “I have no idea about whether the school is legal or not. I send my kids there because they get decent results,” said Maurya, when told that the government wanted such institutions shut.
 
 Principal Dutta is upset with the government decision. “I am 51 year old now. I quit my business to run the school. Now at this age, where will I find a job if the school is closed?” he fretted.   also has on its rolls teachers and non-teaching staff. “What will happen to them?” Dutta asked. “And what about the parents and the kids? They can’t afford big schools.” He claimed there were around 750 unrecognised schools in Trilokpuri alone. TOI could not independently confirm this number since no mapping of such institutions has ever been carried out.
 
 Over the years, Delhi government’s education department has been pulled up for not bringing the shutters down on these schools or making an effort at least to list them. Government officials defend themselves by reasoning that mapping is no easy task. “We honestly don’t have the manpower,” a government official has told TOI on multiple occasions.
 
 The Delhi State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, which steps in when the security of children in these schools is compromised, is aware of the problem. “But where will the children go if so many schools are shut down?” wondered a commission official. “The government has no land to build new schools and the existing schools are already crammed.”
 
 Given the problems, Vinod Khanna, father of seven-year-old Krish in Sangam Vihar, said, “I am relieved that I am shifting to Karol Bagh this year and will be able to get my son admitted in a recognised school there. He may not be in this mess then.” Thousands of other parents would consider Khanna a lucky father indeed.
 
 
