AHMEDABAD: A man with a chisel and a manual drill transforms a square board of teak wood into a print block, shaping intricate floral and henna designs. The drill is operated with a bow-like instrument and the entire process, taking two to seven days, is totally done by hand.

 Pethapur, located 7km from Gandhinagar, is known for its rich legacy of block-making for textile industry. The block carving activity is now hoping to get a Geographical Indicator (GI). A team of Gujarat Council on Science and Technology (GUJCOST) visited senior officials in Delhi on Wednesday to further the claim.
 
 Narottam Sahoo, advisor to GUJCOST, said that the step will provide impetus to the traditional art. “GUJCOST has selected top 10 potential products for which the process of ensuring GI tag is on. For the traditional art of block making, the tag will provide intellectual property right (IP) and better opportunities,” he said.
 
 According to the documentation by GUJCOST, an exhibit in Victoria and Albert Museum, London, dating back to 1850s has description of Pethapur blocks. Moreover, the prints have historic connection with erstwhile Siam ( ) through ‘Saudagari prints’ which were created for the Thai market but later became popular in Gujarat as well.
 
 Saudagari designs are characterized by geometric arrangements of floral patterns with Thai and Indo-Islamic aesthetics. While other designs were introduced on the wooden blocks in subsequent years, Pethapur is still known for Saudagari prints.
 
 “Some master craftsmen such as Maneklal Gajjar were internationally renowned as custodians of the unique tradition. At one time, there sere about 200 artisans, but now hardly 20 are left. We hope that the move will bring better recognition to the block carving process,” said  , an artisan from Pethapur. Artisans accept that with introduction of mechanised printing, the art is breathing its last.
 
 He added, “Even today, a number of specialized textile processing units in Gujarat and other states are using blocks from Pethapur. In recent years, we have also supplied custom-made blocks to textile designers in  , the Netherlands and the USA.”
 
