PUNE: Defunct lifts at PMC’s most multi-storey parking lots have irked vehicle users, especially senior citizens and women, who are forced to climb up the stairs to get to their vehicles.

 Ramesh Devkar, who recently parked his car on the 4th floor of the civic-run parking facility in  , said he had a harrowing time reaching to the spot where his vehicle was parked. “Since the lift at the facility was not working, I had to climb up the stairs to reach the spot where my car was parked. If that was not enough, I had to carry my luggage as well with me,” Devkar said.
  
  
 
  (PMC) had constructed about seven multi-storey parking lots at various places in the city’s central parts, but lifts at most of these facilities do not work. Even the two-wheeler parking space near Mandai also lack working lift, citizens alleged.
 
 Rahul Joshi, a resident of  , said he recently parked his car at a civic facility near Laxmi Road to later realize absence of working lift there. “The parking lot was almost full by the time I reach there. Eventually, I parked my car on the fourth floor of the facility. I did not face much of a problem while climbing down the stairs. However, I was almost out of breath when I had to climb up again to get to my vehicle,” Joshi said while recounting the ordeal.
 
 Later, when Joshi inspected the lift facility on the premises of the multi-storey parking lot, he found that the duct of the lift was empty. “It seems that the lift here has not been operational for some time,” he said, adding that the staircase at the parking facility was unclean and has not been properly managed.
 
 When contacted, the contractors deployed for manning the parking lots conceded that the lifts at most of the multi-storey parking lots have been lying defunct. “Every week, we receive complaints from citizens about the defunct lifts. But there is not much we can do to help people since it is up to the civic administration to take a call on installation of lifts,” they said.
 
 Most parking lots constructed by PMC are of three or four floors.  , a regular visitor to the city’s market area, said the civic administration needs to re-construct these slots with additional capacities. “The slots can be made available underground similar to the malls. This will help PMC augment the capacity and avoid illegal parking of vehicles,” he said.
 
 Civic officials said there were no immediate plans to install lifts. “However, we will look into the issue and chalk out plans to ensure better facilities,” they said.
 
 
