AGRA: The Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) Authority is slated to meet on Thursday to discuss the preparation of a “comprehensive vision document” for protecting and preserving the  . The meeting is being called following directions of  , which on December 8 said that the steps proposed for preservation of the Mughal-era monument were not enough and that the state should come out of its “bureaucratic” approach and explore long-term measures to protect the 17th century monument.
 
  During the hearing, additional solicitor general (ASG)   placed an affidavit, filed by the  , stating the proposed measures to be taken for protection and preservation of the Taj. He said a number of measures have been proposed, including ban on construction activities within 500 m from the monument, allowing only CNG vehicles to ply near the monument, adequate electricity supply in the area so as to discourage use of generator sets and complete ban on waste burning.
  
  The Supreme Court bench had said, “A comprehensive vision document should be prepared, and this exercise will require expertise from all stakeholders, including those concerned with cultural heritage, historical heritage, environment and wildlife. The authorities concerned will consult not only officials but also people from the civil society, including petitioner M C Mehta, who has spent more than 33 years in making efforts to protect the Taj and its environs”.
  
  The top court posted the matter for hearing after eight weeks. According to notice issued to 28 members of TTZ, experts from various fields of culture, industry, environment, pollution, etc, will be attending the meeting. Also, experts from the School of Planning and Architecture, Delhi, and NEERI-Nagpur will also attend the meeting.
  
  On November 20, the apex court had rapped the UP government for not coming out with a comprehensive policy to protect and preserve the beauty of the Taj Mahal, saying: “We need sustainable development." The bench had also asked the TTZ Authority to explain why it was not holding meetings every two months as was expected.
