NEW DELHI: A common link has emerged between the 2014 Burdwan blast and the recent IED explosion in Bodh Gaya with the  's probe into the latter case pointing to two senior   (JMB) leaders and absconding accused in Burdwan case, Kausar and Salahuddin, as "main conspirators". 

 
 The probe into the IED explosion at Kalchakra Maidan, Bodh Gaya, on January 19, coinciding with the visit of the Dalai Lama, found that a group of six men radicalised at madrasas controlled by banned terror group JMB were tasked by Kausar and Salahuddin, both Bangladeshi nationals, to carry out blasts at the Buddhist site. The six, of whom three were recently arrested by Kolkata police, are said to have met Kausar and Salahuddin in a south Indian city. 
 
 Kausar and Salahuddin, as per the NIA chargesheet in the Burdwan blast case, were also part of the JMB conspiracy behind the August 2005 serial blasts in Bangladesh that saw 500 explosions across 300 locations. 
 
 Salahuddin had, in a recent interview to JMB's media wing, declared himself as the head of JMB's India operations. 
 
 The motive behind the IED strike in Bodh Gaya is still being confirmed, though agencies suspect that the blasts were meant to avenge alleged persecution of Rohingya Muslims in Buddhist-dominated Myanmar. An officer told TOI that while three men from the group tasked to carry out the explosions were under arrest, the other three suspects who planted the IEDs have been identified but not yet traced. The NIA, a source said, would seek custody of the three arrested, including Paigamber Shaikh and Jamirul Shaikh, who are lodged in Kolkata's Alipore Jail, for interrogation. 
 
 Kausar and Salahuddin were living in Birbhum before going into hiding in the wake of the Burdwan blast in 2014. They were part of JMB's plan to indoctrinate and prepare a section of vulnerable Indian population, utilising their common religious and linguistic identity, to join the banned outfit and use them for executing terror attacks in Bangladesh and India as part of its movement to establish Sharia rule in Bangladesh as well as in a few districts in India. Kausar was active mostly in Howrah, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and outskirts of Kolkata. 
 
 
