 is a neurological disorder involving nerve pathways and brain chemicals. Migraine headache is a result of specific changes within the brain. It causes severe head ache that is often accompanied by sensitivity to light, sound or smells. There is, however, strong evidence that migraine increases the risk of heart disease, such as myocardial infarction (heart attacks) and angina. The link between migraine and   has been uncovered in men and women over a vast range of ages and across the globe.

 A new study found that people who experience migraines may be more likely to develop cardiovascular problems. According to the study, these migraine headaches were associated with an increased risk for several heart problems including heart attack, stroke, atrial fibrillation (a type of irregular heart rhythm) and blood clots that start in a person's veins. In the study, the researchers looked at data from about 51,000 people who had migraines and about 510,000 people who did not. After 19 years of follow-up, the study determined that people with migraines had a 1.5-fold increased risk of heart attack and a twofold increased risk of stroke when compared with people who did not have the headaches.
 
 Mechanism of developing heart disease is unknown but likely involves inflammation, coagulation, and dysfunction of endothelial lining of the arteries. The main type of migraine associated with stroke is migraine with aura, a subtype affecting about 25% of persons with migraine. The main type of stroke associated with migraine is ischemic stroke (resulting from decreased blood flow to a portion of the brain). 
 
 Prevention is always better than cure! Even if you have migraine, you can reduce the risk of developing heart disease. Maintain a healthy diet; drink plenty of water, regular exercise and at least 8 hours of sleep. Be alert for the triggers of migraine and for conditions known to cause stroke and heart disease such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol and diabetes. Quit cigarette smoking. Use migraine preventive strategies. In addition to decreasing attacks of migraine aura and headache, it may also help prevent stroke. In addition to the traditional migraine preventives, take medication prescribed by your healthcare provider. 
 
 
 
 
