GREATER NOIDA: Former All England badminton champion, national coach and the face of India’s recent success story on the world stage,  , inaugurated the   indoor sports complex here on Monday afternoon.

 
 
 In the presence of senior and junior members of the Bennett University and the Chancellor and Managing Director of the Times Group,  , chief guest Gopichand launched the world class sports facilities – including three indoor badminton and squash courts, a basketball court along with Olympic standard multi-gym for all students. The complex also boasts of a state-of-the-art swimming pool, two tennis courts.
 
 
 
 
 The university will add facilities for cricket and kabaddi next year. While speaking to the gathering, Gopichand expressed the sentiments of the Bennett University which firmly believes that playing sports isn’t about winning all the time. It’s also about being physically literate.
 
 “Everyone should get a chancetotake part in sports. It’s a wonderful thing. It is about building neurons through playing sports, which is important to become a good student. It’s not only about sports champions. It is also about the skillsetof catching and throwing,” Gopichand said.
 
 “I am very happy to see this kind of sports facility. Very few people in our country will have access to such a beautiful infrastructure, and I would like to congratulate the entire team behind the execution of this wonderful project,” he added.
 
 Jain talked about how one can take inspiration from Gopichand’s style of grooming champions. “It is an honour to have an icon of Gopichand’s stature. He has single-handedly turned our nation into a badminton superpower and having him here to inaugurate our sports facility is a great privilege. There is no greater inspiration in world badminton today than Gopichand and the new Indian stars he has mentored,” he said.
 
 (Bennett University has been established to provide students,   quality education in India. The University’s strengths lie in the programs it offers in partnership with Georgia Tech (USA),   (USA),   (USA), Babson Global (USA), edX.
 
 The university has great focus on entrepreneurial ventures and has set up "Bennett Hatchery" under Centre of Innovation and Entrepreneurship in partnership with Babson Global, USA to mentor and fund startup ideas. The state of art infrastructure of the campus caters to every need of students for high standard educational life style.) 
 
