NEW DELHI: The scheduled meeting between Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra and four seniormost judges to sort out their differences, which led to the unprecedented press conference on Friday, did not take place on Wednesday as Justice Jasti   was indisposed.

 All eyes were on Wednesday’s meeting where the senior four — Justices Chelameswar, Ranjan  , Madan B   and   — were to articulate their demands for reforms on the administrative side of the apex court after the CJI made a peace overture in Tuesday’s meeting with the quartet by saying he would consider their grievances.
 
 Though Justice Chelameswar’s indisposition deferred the meeting, other judges including Justices Gogoi, Lokur and Joseph along with the CJI gathered for the customary Wednesday lunch where typical Andhra food from Justice N V Ramana’s home was served hot. With fire-fighting the order of the day in the SC over the last four days, the judges treated themselves to hot idlis, dosas, vadas, lemon rice and thick dal. Bonhomie appeared to have returned and they shared jokes, sources said.
 
 Though Justice Ramana steadfastly refused to share details of the lunch meeting, SC sources said the judges enjoyed the food and more so, the easing of tension that had crept in after the presser and return of near normalcy among ‘brothers’, a term by which the judges address each other.
 
 “The CJI made an effort to mingle with the judges and was seen talking to the three seniormost judges who had held the press conference led by Justice Chelameswar,” a source said. However, it is not clear whether Justice Chelameswar will attend court on Thursday and whether there is any meeting scheduled for Thursday between the CJI and the quartet.
 
 The senior four have registered objection to the CJI assigning politically sensitive cases to allegedly select benches headed by junior judges, with PILs seeking probe into judge B H Loya’s death to a bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra providing the trigger.
 
 But the customary daily tea meeting of judges on Monday saw an emotionally charged Justice Mishra take on Justice Chelameswar and the other three judges and accuse them of tarnishing his reputation and tarring the institution’s image in public.
 
