MANGALURU: With parts of the district started receiving rain, the district administration has directed officials to take necessary measures to deal with the problems arising during monsoon. 

 Chairing a meeting on Monday on the precautionary measures to be taken ahead of monsoon, deputy commissioner   directed all the urban local bodies to take up work on cleaning major and minor drains. The DC also directed the health department to prevent a possible outbreak of malaria, dengue and gastrointestinal diseases like cholera. Directions were issued to inspect all drinking water pipelines in the city and rural areas.
 
  "Inspect all drinking water supply pipelines and plug leakages so that external pollutants do not enter the pipes during the rainy season. Take measures to ensure supply of only treated water to people and chlorination process should be monitored regularly," the DC told officials and directed them to prepare region-wise action plans to mitigate any kind of eventualities. 
 
 Further, the DC instructed officials to make all necessary preparations to disperse relief for those who are affected by rain havoc. Gruel centres should be opened in all flood-prone and sea erosion-prone areas in the district, he said. Home Guards have been asked to prepare a list of swimmers, divers and rescue operation experts. Their service should be availed whenever needed. Port department officials should be prepared to check erosion in   and Someshwar. Police should cordon off roads leading to sea erosion affected areas and thereby prevent the crowd from reaching the spot, he added.
 
 Meanwhile, officials of the   ( ) were asked to clean all drains and prevent waterlogging in the city. "Artificial flooding may cause spread of communicable disease. Hence, local administrations should prevent water logging," he said.
 
 Home Guards commandant Dr   said that personnel will be deployed at all prominent beaches including Someshwar, Ullal, Sasihithlu and Panambur. "Public address system may be used to warn visitors from venturing into the sea during rains. Boats should be brought to take up rescue operations. Meanwhile, shelters should be provided for home guards, who are posted at beaches," he added. 
 
 MCC commissioner Mohammed Nazeer said that the work on desilting of drains is complete and a task force has been constituted to work round the clock during monsoon. Further, gangs have been formed for each ward in the MCC to take up emergency work during monsoon.
 
 
