He burst onto the scene with the soulful song, 'You’re Beautiful' and became a household name. But it took the British soldier-turned-singer   14 years since his monster debut hit to perform in India. Scheduled to wow and woo the audience in Bengaluru on April 9, James, in an exclusive interview to Bombay Times, spoke of his maiden show in the country, how his life as a soldier inspired his songwriting, and if the pressure of matching the success of 'You’re Beautiful' weighs on his mind. Excerpts…

  
 
 
  This is my sixth world tour and it’s amazing how I have never played in India before. So, for me, it is really exciting to come and play here. After Europe, Australia and South America, we will be coming to Bengaluru, so it’s going to be a celebration. I hope to meet some of my fans and play all their favourite songs. After that, I hope to go around the city, meet some people and try the local food. I have been to Delhi, but never to Bengaluru. It will be exciting!
 
  
 
 
  We speak often, but he didn’t mention it (laughs). I have been practising around the rest of the world and I am confident that my set will lift the audiences’ spirit. We call it the ‘The Afterlove Tour’, but I should really call it the ‘Connection Tour’ because I know people want to hear the songs that they have heard on radio like You’re Beautiful, 1973, Goodbye My Lover and a whole lot of other tracks. So, we know our set now. We will, hopefully, make it a rocking night.
 
  
 
 
  I have heard a little bit of it, but coming to India will be a new and exciting learning experience for me. I am really interested in learning some more.
 
  
 
 
  You know I have played more than 80 shows — from Europe to South America, but I haven’t found any audience wherein the spirit, the character and their love for music is not passionate. For me, it’s about coming to new places, no matter where you are or where you go in the world — all have the same human emotions to connect with songs. So, coming to India will genuinely be a fun and exciting kind of experience.
 
  
 
 
  Absolutely! I mean after that stint, I realised that politicians try to divide us. As a soldier, I could see the similarities in humans. No matter where I was or what the environment was like, it was just the same. I write songs on experiences, which have affected me as a soldier. My song 'Same Mistake', which I will play when I get to India, is about joining people together.
 
  
 
 
  I only write songs about my own personal experiences and it comes from the heart, it comes from a genuine place. I am sure all of us have said the three words, ‘I love you’ to someone and you say it in a particular way from the heart. 
 
 
 
  I am on a tour and am incredibly lucky to have a massive smash (hit) like 'You’re Beautiful'. The album sold over 12 million copies. Every musician dreams of that! It was a great song, yet most people would tell you that it was not their favourite song of mine. If you ask other people, they would say that '1973' from 'All The Lost Souls’' album is their favourite song, or 'Bonfire Heart' from another album. If it’s a great song on radio, it doesn’t necessarily mean that it is your best song. I am stepping up on other people’s favourites. I write different song about different experiences and each one of them, just as important.
 
 
 
  (Laughs) Well, I mess around on Twitter. But my message to the people of India is — Thank you so much for inviting me. I am so excited to come and bring along my band and we will rock. See you there!
 
