In India, he is known as the father of Indian sonar, but across the world,   is known as the inventor who has pioneered wireless technology that revolutionized broadband internet access for billions of people worldwide.

 His MIMO—Multiple Input, Multiple Output—improves both transmission data rates and expands network coverage. It is the essential foundation for all current (WiFi and 4G mobile) and future broadband wireless communications.
 Paulraj has just been inducted into the national inventors’ hall of fame by the US this year. “One in 16,000 patents is selected for this honour and is given by the US patents office. Currently professor emeritus at  , Paulraj holds 79 patents and has received numerous awards, including the 2014 Marconi Prize.
 
 Pollachi-born Paulraj who had joined the Navy at 15, was sent to study in IIT Delhi following his excellent academic record. The loss of an Indian naval ship from submarine action in the 1971Indo-Pakistan War brought him to sonar technology and he successfully advanced the Navy’s sonar capability. In 1977, he led the design of the APSOH sonar, which became the fleet sonar of the Navy, ushering in India’s global leadership in the vital technology.
 
 Paulraj later founded three national labs in India spanning artificial intelligence, computing and military electronics, before moving to the US to join the faculty at Stanford University.
 
 Though he made the first Indian sonar, Paulraj insists that he has left work on sonars when he left India. However, the sonar APSOH that he made in the 70s is still one of the world’s best. “India has never imported a sonar and Navy always uses the sonars made by the DRDO laboratory, Naval Physical and   (NPOL) where we made the Indian sonar,” he says.
 
 “It was a small thing, but our institutions were not equipped. Now, it is a different scenario,” he adds. However, he says that Indians, irrespective of all that talk about being in the   or Microsoft or Google, have not had any inventor in the core IT area.
 
 “There’s no technological contribution in your mobile or computer that has been invented or designed by Indians. Paulraj has now been appointed chairman of a steering committee to look into IT issues, including 5G. “The government also wants me to help India join the exclusive club of countries like US, Europe, South Korea, Japan and Taiwan which have made huge advances in IT, he said. “I have been coming to India every month as part of the project.”
 
 He was in Kochi to deliver the keynote address at the international conference in sonar systems & sensors.
 
