BHOPAL: After a girl who was thought to be dead returned home alive, senior police officials constituted an SIT to investigate whose body was handed over to the kin of the girl who was reported missing in   15 days ago.

 Before the girl returned home alive, her kin had cremated the body of the deceased. On March 16, Laxmi Verma, 16, who used to live with her maternal aunt Phoolkali Verma, wife of Raja Verma, in Kailashpur Pendra village went missing.
 
 On March 19, the kin reported the matter at local Majhigawan police station of the district. Subsequently, police started investigation. On March 22, body of a 16-year old girl whose face was burnt, was found near a canal under Hanumana police station of neighbouring Rewa district.
 
 Initially, it was suspected that the girl had been raped and murdered. Later, on March 23, Phoolkali Verma and her two nephews identified the body as that of Laxmi who was missing since March 16. Hanumana police handed over the body to Phoolkali after she identified her as her missing niece Laxmi Verma. The kin of Laxmi also staged protests in Hanumana on March 23 by placing the body on the road demanding arrest of the accused.
 
 However on March 24, the girl who had gone to Delhi after escaping from the home of her maternal aunty Phoolkali Verma, returned to her parents in native village Guduwa under Sabhapur police station. Sources said that the matter sparked controversy and state home minister instructed proper probe into the matter.
 
 Subsequently, a   (SIT) was constituted by IG Rewa to investigate the matter.
 
 “An investigation team comprising an additional SP and an SDOP has been constituted to probe all aspects of the case. We do not have the body, but have pictures and the DNA samples of the deceased. It is a blind murder case. In the meantime, a case under relevant sections has been registered against the girl’s maternal aunty and two of her associates for identifying the body as that of the missing girl and misleading the police,” Rewa IG Umesh Joga told TOI.
 
 Sources said that a police team from Hanumana reached Kailashpur Pendra village and arrested Phoolkali and two others in connection with the case late on Tuesday.
 
