

  
 
  I am not even imagining a defeat. MP has a very strong Congress unlike other states. We only need to activate it. That will be the challenge. But there is unity among everybody. There is no factionalism because I have the best of relations with everybody. I have always said we need everybody's help to win, be it   or Jyotiraditya Scindia or Kantilal Bhuria. I have spoken to all of them, they will put all their might. And they mean it because stakes are too high... I am the first Congress president who is not worried about unity . 
 
  
 
 
  In 2003, we lost because of the incumbency of Congress government. In 2008, BJP won by making huge promises including farm loan waiver. We were also a bit weak on the organisational front and there were flaws in our ticket distribution too. In 2013, they used the government machinery and Congress could not combat the organisational strength of BJP. 
 
  
 
 
  We must look at the present circumstances. Never in history have all sections of society been distressed - farmers are bleeding, youth are unemployed, traders and labourers are unhappy, women don't feel safe. MP leads the country in farmer suicides and atrocities on women. The politics of stunts stands badly exposed. 
 
  
 
 
  There is no "lost out" here. He has an important role of leading the campaign. He will strategise the campaign in every part of the state and has tremendous attraction among voters. 
 
  
 
 
  He can do co-ordination with leaders. He has the maximum knowledge about the organisation in the state. He would be a very important part of the Congress strategy. 
 
  
 
 
  We have to gear up the organisation at village level. That is the strength of BJP. Congress workers who withdrew and stayed at home during these years have to be brought out. It is not the future of one person or party at stake. Our agenda is the future of MP. When workers in villages see a united Congress, they will be on the move themselves. 
 
  
 
 
  I participated in the Yatra. What Digvijaya Singh has done is stupendous, to put it mildly. People in villages were electrified by this. Though it was a personal yatra, people felt connected with Congress . 
 
  
 
 The voter in our country is willing to get disappointed at times but he is not willing to be 'thugged' (cheated). I don't think it will make any difference. 
 
 
