HYDERABAD: Adding another feather to Hyderabad’s cap, the   has awarded the city of pearls the title of “Best Capital City’’ for its   under the Swachh Survekshan 2018 awards category. The state capitals and Union territories are participants in this category, which does not include city municipalities which are not state capitals like Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation ( ).

 While   (GHMC) bagged the award for waste management, which includes segregation of waste and transportation from household to   dumping yard and recycling it, the rank of the city for cleanliness has not been released yet. Elated GHMC officials cut a cake at its headquarters to celebrate the award. “I was more happy when I came to know that GHMC won an award for solid waste management than when I received an award from Prime Minister   for administration,” said Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) commissioner B Janardhan Reddy.
 
  
  
 Only top three clean cities have been declared, with Indore ranked as the cleanest , followed by Bhopal and Chandigarh. Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs released the awards.
 
 Several activists say a lot more has to be done as part of recycling waste and that wealth out of waste should be generated as per Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules 2016. “City getting an award implies the plight of rest of the country. A lot of effort has to be put into waste segregation and all the norms in Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 have been followed. The authorities should create organic manure from the waste and supply it to farmers as mentioned in the SWM rules,” said environmentalist Prof K Purushotham Reddy.
 
 In the cities with less than one lakh population, Siddipet was selected as the cleanest city, while   was awarded as the best city in innovation and best practices.   got the award for best city in citizens’ feedback list.
 
 A total of 4,203 Urban Local Bodies were assessed and 53.58 lakh Swachhata apps downloaded with 37.66 lakh citizens feedback collected.
 
 This year, 35% weightage was given to citizen feedback, 30% weightage to direct observation and 45 % percent weightage has been given to service level progress.
 
