SURAT/AHMEDABAD: Surat city police suspect that the 11-year old girl’s rape and murder were not committed in the city. Multiple injuries on her body, which was found on April 6, suggest that she was tortured in captivity and later thrown on   under   police station limits. The city police have dispatched the girl’s photographs to all the police stations in the country to seek their help in her identification because so far they have failed to establish her identity.

 Director general of police Shivanand Jha said a team of more than 300 policemen have been put on the job to help identify the girl.
 
 “The girl’s body was found from close to National Highway Number 8. Local criminals would not have dumped the body next to the road. The culprits must have brought the body from somewhere else and left it on the roadside so as to not leave any clue at the spot of the crime,” said a senior police officer adding that they have conducted house to house search in nearby areas, but failed to ascertain her identity. 
 
 The place from where the body of the girl was found is close to NH-8, which runs from Delhi to Mumbai through Surat and Ahmedabad. People from states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh etc come to the city for employment. There is sizeable population of people from other states in Pandesara and Udhna localities of the city. 
 
 “Therefore, it is a possibility that the girl could have been brought to the city by one of the migrants and later killed. Our investigation so far doesn’t show that the girl was from one of the areas in the city,” another police officer said. 
 
 “There exists the probability that some outsider had committed the crime somewhere else and then dumped the body in the city limits. However, we are not discounting any fact and working on all possibilities and leads,” police commissioner Satish Sharma said. 
 
 Sharma said they are checking the closed circuit television (CCTV) footages of nearby toll plazas to look for suspicious characters in any vehicle. The main priority of the police is to ascertain the girl’s identity. The city crime branch has been roped in and was helping the local police station in the investigation of the case.
 
 The commissioner further said, “We have scanned some data from different state records and shortlisted some pictures. We are working on talking to parents to find the identity of the girl. We have sought permission from the  , Gujarat, to allow us to put the pictures of the victim on television and if permission is granted, we would do so.” 
 
 Police have also decided to carry out a massive door-to-door search with girl’s pictures to identify her in the city. 
 
 Meanwhile, teams of Ahmedabad crime branch, too, are helping Surat police in ascertaining the identity of the girl. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police, Ahmedabad crime branch, Deepan Bhadran said their team was analysing the call data records. “It is a time consuming exercise, but we are hopeful of cracking the case,” he said. 
 
 The postmortem found injuries on the private parts of the 11-year-old girl. Foreign objects were inserted into her private parts, which makes the act brutal and inhuman. The girl’s body had 89 grievous injuries, the police said. 
 
 
