COIMBATORE: The   and Hospital ( ), which tops the list of government hospitals that performs successful cochlear implants in the country, is all set to open its first auditory-verbal therapy facility this month-end. The facility was first proposed five years ago. 

 “It was one of the long pending proposals of the state government and the facility will be inaugurated on March 31,” said a senior CMCH official.
 
 The hospital has performed about 186 cochlear implants under the chief minister’s comprehensive insurance scheme since 2013. 
 
 All the children undergoing the implantation have to undergo the auditory-verbal therapy. Till date, the CMCH had been outsourcing it to a private institute. The therapy would cost around Rs 1 lakh per children in private hospitals, the official said.
 
 Now, that the therapy will be performed at the hospital itself with a team of audiologists and speech therapists, the government will have to any longer outsource the services, the official added. The post-surgery care will be offered to the children for a year to get tuned to sounds with the assistance of implant devices. During the therapy, several specialised instruments such as frequency modulation devices and hearing aids would be used.
 
 “Without the therapy, cochlear implantation will be rendered useless,” the official said, explaining that there would be a lot of confusion in the children as they would not be able to sync the lip movements and the sound they hear.
 
 “After the implantation, they will be able to hear the sounds. And therapy would assist them to match the voice they hear with the lip movements they see,” the official added.
 
 The government has in total spent about Rs 15 crore to set up the auditory-verbal therapy facility, cath lab, cosmetology and cosmetic surgery and additional dialysis facilities at the CMCH.
 
 “One of the most useful facilities will be the cath lab,” said B  , dean of CMCH. With the facilities available in the lab - single plane to treat with cardiac diseases and bi-plane to treat neuro diseases - the patients would no longer be cut open for treatment, he added.
 
 After the   in Chennai, cosmetic surgery would be performed free of cost at CMCH, Asokan said. Doctors specialised in dermatology, plastic surgery and psychology will be brought together for this purpose, he said.
 
 Pointing out that a lot of people with scar of the visible parts of the body were going into depression, the CMCH dean said scar revision would be done at the hospital, along with counselling by experts.
 
 “To start with, we are planning to concentrate on laser treatment to remove unwanted hair and pigments, hair transplant and breast reconstruction,” the dean said.
 
 The CMCH would also five dialysis machines. This is in addition to the nine existing dialysis machines. “We can do three dialysis per day with a machine and we used to do a minimum of 15 dialysis daily. The number of people undergoing dialysis has gone up in recent times and the additional machines will help us handle more cases,” another CMCH official said. 
 
 
