SHIMLA: Missing   has not only resulted into   and   across Himachal Pradesh but it has also posed a threat to the   and   of hill state. 

 With dry weather conditions predicted till January 22, farmers are worried about their apple crop while those associated with tourism industry are worried about their business as tourists are not thronging the state like previous year.
 
 Winter snowfall not only remains a major attraction for tourists but also is very essential for the apple crop to meet the requirement of chilling hours. With dry weather, tourist towns of Shimla, Manali and Dalhousie are witnessing a lean season this time. Shimla is witnessing dry winter after a gap of 11 years. Earlier it was in 2007 when no rain and snow was recorded in the month of January.
 
 These days chill in the air is missing due to bright sunshine in the daytime. As the snow is missing, tourists visiting the hill town could be seen enjoying the cozy weather. Shimla these days is recording maximum temperature above normal.
 
 On Tuesday, maximum temperature of Shimla was 17.4 degrees Celsius which was 6.4 degrees Celsius above normal, while minimum temperature of 9.4 degrees Celsius was also 6.4 degrees Celsius above normal.
 
 Majority of hotels in Shimla are witnessing low occupancy these days. “Without snowfall, tourist are coming to Shimla in very less number which has hugely affected the tourism business this winter,” said Shimla-based hotelier Atul Gautam.
 
 Surinder Thakur, another hoterlier, said that Shimla is yet to receive first snowfall of winter season and the way dry weather conditions have been predicted till January 22 it is being feared whether the hill town would receive any snow this winter.
 
 Similarly, farmers are also worried about the apple crop in coming season as without snow and rain in winter it is not possible to meet the requirement of chilling hours for good apple crop.
 
 “Dry weather has increased the day temperature these days which is not good for the apple crop,” said Subhash Chand, a farmer from Theog. He said that if weather continues like this then in coming season apple production would remain low.
 
 “Missing snow and rain is a matter of concern as it would affect the crop production as required chilling hours would be difficult to meet,” said Ashutosh Chauhan , Vice-President of Progressive Growers Association (PGA) Shimla.
 
 
