NAGPUR: The forest department has approved the long-standing demand of environmentalists for a retaining wall to protect the   reserve forest. The department is hopeful that the wall will help in controlling trespassing, forest fires and soil erosion. 

 TOI was the first to report how the forest was left in complete shambles since years due to lack of protection. The Nagpur forest division had built an iron fencing around the forest but it would serve no purpose. Intruders would regularly litter the area through the breaches in the fencing.
 
 According to forest officials, a wall of length around 650 meters will be constructed in the initial phase. The state public works department (PWD) has been awarded the work. “We have started by constructing the wall from   till   and a part of  ,” said Nagpur deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) G Mallikarjuna. In the initial phase, a budget of Rs70 lakhs have been approved. “Another proposal of Rs1 crore for development work is being prepared. Besides, separate plans are being made to prevent soil erosion,” he added. 
 
 To ensure that citizens can enjoy the view of forest, the wall will have mesh fencing on top. “The height of the wall will vary depending on the topography,” said officials.
 
 In summers last year, forest fires had engulfed a major portion of the forest, leading to destruction of natural habitats of various species. Officials said that the wall is expected to control trespassing in the area. “Encroachers would often leave cigarette or bidi butts in the forest. Though are patrolling teams are constantly monitoring in the area, the wall will restrict entry of such anti-social elements,” they added.
 
 The department has also built a watchtower to keep an eye on forest fires and plans on building more in the coming months. “We are collecting the leaf litter and other waste regularly to prevent fire,” said officials. The department has also put up boards displaying information regarding rules and regulations to create awareness among the public.
 
 TOI had also highlighted that the forest was under serious threat from soil erosion. To control this, the department is using dried-up or leftover bamboo. “We are filling the holes and depressions with leaf litter and bamboo which easily catch fire. This will not only avoid fire outbreaks but will also prevent flowing away of soil with water,” said the official.
 
 Experts however feel that more measures need to be taken. “Stone bunding is the best way to avoid soil erosion. Also, more number of trees should be planted,” said green activist Shrikant Deshpande. 
 
 
