Kanyakumari: The Centre came in for a stinging criticism from former IAS officer M G Devasahayam, over its ‘questionable’ treatment of the cyclone victims and their relatives in Kanyakumari. He alleged that the Centre gave peanuts in damages to Kanyakumari to make up for the havoc Ockhi had wreaked along the costal belt in November 30.

 He was speaking at a protest organized by Naam Kumari Makkal to condemn the government they accused of not providing enough amount to recuperate from the damage. He said that the state had sought Rs 9,000 crore, but the Centre gave only Rs 133 crore, likening the amount to alms given to a beggar.
 
 Questioning the veracity of the Centre, Devasahayam asked how the government provided at Rs 28,000 crore to construct International Container Transhipment Terminal (ICTT) in the district that would generate only 4,000 jobs but did not give less than a third of that fund to rehabilitate lakhs of people whose livelihood was affected by the cyclone.
 
 Devasahayam accused the government of being anti-people and working against the interest of the people. “People should vote for the right person in the coming parliamentary elections so that they will not be begging for their livelihood. A person who will represent our cause in the parliament should be elected,” he said.
 
 Protest Convener Jagat Casper accused the government of discriminating and neglecting Ockhi hit Kanyakumari where lakhs of fisherfolk from the coastal areas, farmers in the inlands and tribes are living.
 
 “Several lakh rubber trees, more than 50 lakh banana trees and coconut trees, spices and other cultivation were completely affected but they have not been properly compensated,” he said. Casper said that as part of the futuristic efforts to protect the district from natural disasters like Ockhi, Naam Kumari Makkal will be taking up plantation of one lakh palm trees in the district. “These trees will be a natural barrier and protect people and the district from natural disasters like Ockhi,” he said.
 
 
