CHENNAI: If residents of   in   thought that waking up to trenches in front of their homes one fine day without prior information was bad enough, they were in for a worse shock on Monday night when the front portions of two houses caved in. 

 Blaming it on the shoddy planning of the ongoing   project to replace the existing   (SWD) on the stretch, residents said no precautions were taken before the work began to ensure that properties were not damaged, adding that the buffer space between the house boundaries and the existing drains was overrun by the contractor hired by the SWD department of the  .
 
 “On Monday night, the staircase leading to one of the houses caved in because of the work. On Tuesday morning, the front portion of the second house suffered the same fate,” said B Neelakandan, secretary, Vivekanandapuram Residents Welfare Association. 
 
 “Instead of digging up the entire stretch at once, the officials should have undertaken work on smaller stretches. Residents themselves are shovelling mud and laying scaffoldings and planks to give strength to the structures of their houses,” he added. The contractor began work on the 400m-long drain over a month back but barely any progress has been made. 
 
 The civic woes have left residents with a sense of deja vu as the stretch was also badly affected during the December 2015 floods when underwater sewage pipes collapsed, leading to craters in the middle of the road.
 
 Sivaswamy Salai is a major bus route linking areas around Mandaveli to other parts of the city. “Even while the work is being undertaken, buses and other heavy vehicles are still using the road. We are trying to convince motorists not to drive heavy vehicles on the road,” Neelakandan added. 
 
 A senior corporation official admitted that the work carried out was not up to scratch. “There should have been a setback space between the house and the existing SWD. Instructions have been given to ensure that residents are no longer caused any inconvenience and the work will be planned better. We will take up the incident with the contractor who is carrying out the work and the relaying process will be expedited,” he said.
 
 The official denied that the depth of the SWD was being increased. “The existing depth of 2m will not be changed,” he said.
 
 
