JALANDHAR: Punjabi NRI supporters of Aam Aadmi Party are unhappy with the choice of the party’s   candidates. Even AAP leaders in Punjab have revealed that they are not happy with the party’s selection of senior party leader Sanjay Singh, Delhi-based businessman Sushil Gupta, who had past links with  , and chartered accountant N D Gupta.

 “The biggest negative feedback is from NRIs,” revealed a senior Punjab AAP leader. “The choice of names for the Rajya Sabha by the party has come as a complete shock and disappointment for us and now we shall teach them a lesson. Most of the NRI volunteers and supporters, who were already disappointed the way party was run in Punjab by the bosses from Delhi and the humiliating loss in the state election, are now clear that party cared two hoots about their opinion and they are just supposed to contribute dollars. We were demanding introspection and review for reasons of defeat in the election but they have rewarded a person whom people considered responsible for drubbing in the assembly elections,” said Australia-based Bhavjit Singh, AAP media coordinator in  .
 
 “There were other more suitable candidates within the party, but they preferred two unknown faces, including the one who just jumped over from the Congress to AAP a month back, to sending to the  ,” he said.
 
 The AAP’s dismal performance in the Punjab assembly polls under the leadership of Sanjay Singh had led to a lot of anger in the party’s Punjab unit against the senior leader, who is a close aide of Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.
 
 “Punjabi NRI volunteers and supporters are not only unhappy about Sanjay Singh’s nomination as they blame him for the party’s dismal performance in Punjab, but they also are embarrassed by having to defend the nomination other two candidates. Discussions among party supporters in our local unit and other overseas units had already indicated that the party supporters were totally against nomination of the trio. How can we defend these three names?”  , secretary of AAP New Jersey unit, said.
 
 “Most of the Punjabi NRIs have been holding Sanjay Singh responsible for defeat of party in Punjab as he and Durgesh Pathak were responsible for choosing candidates in Punjab. They did not pick up suitable candidates and the state slipped out of their hands. The choice of all three candidates is inexplicable for the AAP’s NRI supporters from Punjab,” said US-based Jodhbir Singh, one of the oldest and biggest supporters of the AAP among NRIs on social media. He had even come to Punjab to campaign during the 2017 assembly elections. “They will get the results of their policies in 2019 too,” he added.
 
 
