The candidates preparing for the   PO, Clerk, SO, SBI PO/Clerk Prelims and Mains, RRB, RBI and other banking job related recruitment exams should know about the latest subject wise study material to secure better ranking in the examination. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 It is one of the most important and scoring subject for candidates preparing for the banking exams. This subject tests the candidate's numerical ability and accuracy in mathematical calculations. Mostly 30-35 marks questions are from this subject in various bank & insurance exams. Topics covered under quantitative aptitude includes - Simplification/Approximation, Number Series, Arithmetic, Probability , Time and Work, Permutation & Combination, Quadratic Equations, Data Interpretation, Mensuration etc.
 
 
 
 
 The candidates have high scope to secure good marks in English test. Questions asked in this section is quite basic and anyone can crack this paper with focus and dedication. The English Subject can be divided into - Vocabulary, Grammar, Reading Comprehension, Verbal Ability. The type of questions includes - Reading Comprehension, Cloze Test, Error Detection, Para Jumbles, Fillers and Miscellaneous. 
 
 
 
 
 General Awareness paper tests the IQ level of candidates about how much they are aware of the happenings around them. It is an easy to score subject provided you prepare well. This subject can be divided into three sub-sections - Banking and Financial Awareness, Current Affairs and Static GK.
 
 
 
 
 Reasoning Ability questions tests the candidate's critical thinking or analytic reasoning capability. To score more in this subject, you need to develop higher logical reasoning ability. Topics covered under this subject includes - Computer Aptitude, Coding Decoding, Distance and Direction Test, Blood Relations, Input-Output, Data Sufficiency, Inequality, Seating Arrangement, Syllogism, Puzzles and Logical Reasoning. 
 
 
 
 
 Computer awareness questions asked in banking exams are related to the basic terms, abbreviations or functional aspects of the computer. Hence, candidates have high opportunity to score well in this subject. Topics covered under Computer awareness includes - Computer Hardware, Computer History, Database Management System, Memory, Networking, Operating System and Internet. 
 
