NEW DELHI: Under fire from the opposition and Dalit outfits, the government has cited the amendments it brought in 2016 to the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, pointing out that the number of offences which would attract stringent provisions of the Act had gone up to 47.

 
 The changes in the law also emphasised on speedy justice to make it more effective, providing for completion of trial within two months from the date of filing of chargesheet by setting up special courts and a deadline for completing investigations.
 
  
  
 Besides, the amendments incorporated new offences such as shaving of head or moustache, garlanding with footwear, denying access to irrigation or forest rights, disposing human or animal carcasses or digging graves, manual scavenging, forcing women members of the community as devdasis etc under the ambit of the Act.
 
 The changed rules, effective from April 14, 2016, enhanced the relief amount to between Rs 85,000 and Rs 8,25,000, depending on the crime, to victims of atrocities. The interim compensation of 10% was to be given to the victim within seven days on the basis of a complaint "without waiting for the outcome of the preliminary enquiry".
 
 As per existing provisions, there is no need to wait for the outcome of a police inquiry, an FIR has to be registered under the   on filing of a complaint, like in any other offence of heinous crimes such as murder, attempt to murder or rape.
 
 The amended rules also provide for periodic review of the rights and entitlements of victims and witnesses in 'accessing justice'. It lays down setting up of monitoring committees to be supervised by district and sub-divisional level authorities.
 
 The government, in its review petition filed before the  , said the SC/ST Act was amended because "atrocities against Dalits and tribals continued despite the deterrent provisions in the 1989 Act". The high incidence of offences against the community, it said, also indicated that the deterrent effect of the Act was not adequately felt by the accused.
 
 The 2016 amendments also incorporated as offences "preventing SC/ST candidates from filing nomination to contest election, forcing a member to leave house, village or residence, defiling objects sacred to SCs/STs and touching or using words, acts or gestures of a sexual nature against members of the community".
 
 The amended Act provides for establishment of "exclusive special courts, specification of exclusive special public prosecutor to exclusively try offences under the Act for expeditious disposal of cases".
 
 It also gave power to special courts to take "direct cognisance" of offences and complete the trial in a time-bound manner. An additional chapter was added on the 'Rights of Victims and Witnesses'.
 
