THRISSUR: A 42-year old dalit man from Varanatharappilli in   has died while in custody of   police. The police officers at Pudukkad gave the name of the victim as Thiruvanchikkulam Yogesh of Kalavarakkunnu near Varantharappilli. Yogesh died in hospital on Saturday night.

 His relatives have, meanwhile, accused the Tamil Nadu police of torture.
 
 Pudukkad police said that according to the information received by them, Yogesh was among the four persons picked by from the state by a special investigating team (SIT) constituted by the Tamil Nadu police in connection with a highway robbery case. The robbery, involving gold valued around Rs 3 crore, had taken place at Madukkarai in Tamil Nadu. It was allegedly carried out by a gang led by Kodali Sreedharan, who is wanted in connection with several cases.
 
 Pudukkad police said that Tamil Nadu police had not officially intimated them either about the arrest or Yogesh’s death. They said that they came to know about the arrest only after the family members of one of the gang members picked up by the TN police approached them saying that he was kidnapped by a gang. Subsequently, Kerala police intercepted the Tamil Nadu police vehicle 10 days later. Its occupants then divulged that they were part of the SIT.
 
 Kerala police said as per their information, all the four persons picked up by Tamil Nadu police, including Yogesh, were remanded to judicial custody. Yogesh was taken to a hospital after he complained of chest pain and he died there later.
 
 Yogesh’s family has alleged that he died of torture by Tamil Nadu police. They said that they had complained to Varantharappilli police and they told them that the Tamil Nadu police denied any torture.
 
 Yogesh was picked up by Tamil Nadu police on April 10 but a case was charged only on April 14, said Babu, Yogesh’s brother.
 
 “When we went to see him at Coimbatore on April 13, he was unable to walk and was on a wheelchair. The Tamil Nadu police informed us on Saturday that Yogesh was having breathing difficulties. But by the time we reached the government hospital at Coimbatore, he was dead,” said Babu. He also accused the Tamil Nadu police of taking bribes from kin of the arrested, promising to let them off.
 
 The body will be brought home on Sunday evening, after postmortem.
 
 
 
