KOLKATA: Even as mayor   ruled out the possibility that   supplied water was responsible for the enteric outbreak along parts of south Kolkata, a section of KMC officials admitted the geographic spread indicated that the disease was indeed waterborne.

 “It is quite possible that road excavation for the repair of underground utilities or laying of fibre optic cables could have damaged water and sewage lines, which caused the contamination,” said a KMC water supply department official. “If that is indeed the case, we have to trace the affected line at the earliest.”
 
 TOI on Monday spotted such a possibility on Santoshpur Sixth Road, where KMC has undertaken a sewage modernization plan. A large area has been dug up to lay sewage pipes. All around are KMC roadside water stand posts that are used by many residents to meet their drinking water requirements. “There is a high risk of contamination in the underground water pipeline if something goes wrong while laying or repairing a sewage line that runs almost parallel to it,” conceded a KMC drainage and sewerage department engineer.
 
  
 The mayor sought to assure citizens that all was safe with KMC-supplied water, and also increased the chlorine content at the treatment plants, but residents of a slum along the Santoshpur canal said they found insect larvae in the water. “We often get unclean water. But now, there are insects as well. We boil this water before drinking,” said Uttam Sardar, a resident of the slum.
 
 Public health and water experts have expressed dismay over the delay in pinpointing the contamination point. Tests conducted on water samples collected from the supply points in localities affected by enteric diseases should have helped fixed the contamination point by now, experts said on Monday.
 
 State   chairman S P Sinha Ray, ex-member of the  , ruled out any possibility other than water being the source of contamination. “The breakout could have happened from food contamination had it been confined to a locality where residents had a community meal or affected only children who had midday meal at a particular school. But since it is widespread, the source is, in all likelihood, water,” he said. He said the possibility of it being caused due to a leakage in piped water supply was more likely.
 
 K K Nag Chowdhury of State Water Investigation Directorate said a common practice of using cow dung instead of Bentonite to bind the wall during tubewell drilling often proves dangerous, as the dung releases bacteria when it comes in contact with iron pipes.
 
 
  
 
