CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court on Friday asked the Haryana government if a common venue should be kept for the trial of all criminal cases related to the August 2017 violence which erupted after Dera Sacha Sauda head   was convicted of rape. 

 A high court full bench headed by Justice Surya Kant posed the query to the state government during the resumed hearing of a case related to the dera violence. Justice Kant asked if all cases related to dera violence in Haryana could be consolidated for the purpose of trial at a common place to avoid any conflicting orders or confusion. The bench then asked senior advocate Anupam Gupta to address the court if such arrangements were tenable under law. The Haryana government has also been asked to provide details of all FIRs pending in the state regarding the violence.
 
 The bench, on Friday, also authorized the civil surgeon of Sirsa district to run the medical institutions of the dera under the supervision of a team headed by him. The court, however, made it clear that permission to run these medical institutions would not legalize the dera’s hospital building, found illegal by the town and country planning department.
 
 The court, however, asked the civil surgeon of Sirsa to verify the details of all medical and para-medical staff working in DSS-run medical institutions and submit a report to the court when the case next comes up for hearing on August 8.
 
 These orders were passed by the bench after Gupta objected to the list of medical staff working in DSS-run institutions produced before the bench. Gupta said qualifications and other details of the staff appeared vague. He claimed it was a tendency of private institutions to showcase a list of specialists, but they appeared only during inspections.
 
 He requested the bench to get details of the staff, like education qualifications and experience, verified by the health department. On this, the bench ordered civil surgeon of Sirsa to furnish complete details.
 
 During the hearing of the case, the court was also informed that an adhoc committee had already been constituted to run educational institutions of the dera. 
 
  to sell harvest for recovering Rs 9.5cr loan
 
 The Punjab and   high court on Friday also allowed Oriental Bank of Commerce (OBC) to recover Rs 9.5 crore by auctioning goods which Dera Sacha Sauda mortgaged for a loan. The court passed the orders after allowing an application filed by the bank, stating that one of the companies of the dera had taken the loan and hypothecated wheat and mustard stock in its favour. The main argument of OBC was that since the goods were perishable, it should be allowed to auction them and recover its money. While allowing bank’s plea, the court asked it the keep the amount in the form of fixed deposit till the pendency of the case.
 
 
