CHENNAI: In recent times,   had been in the news for all the wrong reasons, with former vice chancellor   being booked for graft. However, the Union human resources development ministry’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2018 list released on Tuesday gave every reason for the university and its alumni to bask in glory.

 The university has been awarded tenth rank in the overall category for the first time as a recognition of its academic achievements. In the university category, Anna University moved to fourth position from its last year’s sixth rank.
 
  
  
 
  (IIT-M) has been ranked the best engineering college in the country for the third time in a row. The institute also retained its second position in the overall category.
 
 Apart from these two, 11 other universities including Amrita, Bharathiar, VIT, Alagappa, Madras University, Agriculture University, SASTRA, Ramachandra, SRM, Sathyabama and Saveetha made it to the top 50.
 
 Besides this, three city colleges made it to the top 10 under the colleges category. This included Loyola College, Madras Christian College and Presidency College which secured ranks of 2nd, 12th and 96th respectively in the 2017 list.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sunil Paliwal, state higher education secretary, said   was way ahead of other states in the NIRF 2018 list. “The state government has been urging authorities to give importance to NIRF and NAAC accreditation in all the meetings of vice-chancellors and regional joint directors held in the last one year. That is why a greater number of government colleges participated this year and it is paying dividends now.
 
 Commenting on IIT-M’s achievement, Bhaskar Ramamurthi, director of the institute, said the ranking is an affirmation of the consistent hard work of the faculty and students. “We will continue to forge ahead with the same energy to reach greater heights”, he added.
 
 The 160-year-old University of Madras has improved its NIRF ranking in 2018 from 64 to 29 (overall) and from 41to 18 (for universities), which is ahuge leap.
 
 Vice-chancellor P Duraisamy said this was mainly due to a 25% increase in the student enrolment and other parameters like research projects and expenditure on infrastructure and equipments. “The improvement in ranking is significant as the competition this time was intense. 4,000 institutes applied for NIRF,” he said.
 
 “The healthy competition and the staff response has enabled SASTRA to stay among the top 10 private universities with relative displacement almost negligible when compared to 2017 rankings,” said S  , dean, planning & development, Sastra University.
 
 
