MYSURU/ MANDYA: The   heartland remained peaceful on Friday as   heaved a sigh of relief at the   judgment in the water-sharing row.

 The Zilla Raita Hitaraksana Samiti will meet in Mandya on Saturday and chalk out the future course of action. The Samiti headed by former MP G Madegowda will discuss the verdict with farmer leaders, activists and legal experts. Though there were no untoward incidents in the Cauvery basin districts, Mandya and Mysuru, the cops maintained a tight vigil and have stepped up security at the four major reservoirs in the Cauvery basin, particularly the KRS dam which is heavily guarded.
 
 
 The inter-state bus service was affected as buses didn’t cross the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border. The buses operated till   checkpost in   district, and passengers crossed the border on foot and continued their journey in Tamil Nadu vehicles. However, vehicular traffic across the border was normal at Palar near MM Hills as thousands of devotees from the neighbouring state visited the shrine for Shivaratri.
 
 Minutes after the verdict, Madegowda, who leads the Samiti which led the Cauvery agitation, was guarded in his reaction and said he’d react after reading the full copy of the judgment and discuss with the farming community.
 
 The Samiti is likely to focus on the directive about setting up the Cauvery River Management Board. Farmers performed puja to the river Cauvery at   in Mandya district.
 
 Traffic smooth
 
 The flow of people between Mysuru and Bengaluru was not affected as both rail and road traffic was smooth. However, vehicular traffic was thin on the Mysuru-Bengaluru expressway. Farmers and activists distributed sweets in Mandya while pro-Kannada activists celebrated in Mysuru. At Chamarajanagar, activists of the   burst crackers and said the Centre should not take up measures to set up the Cauvery River Management Board.
 
 The Mysuru-Bengaluru highway, which has borne the brunt of the Cauvery agitation in the past, was peaceful look.
 
 Security in Mandya
 
 The heightened security arrangements in Mandya will continue as long as doubts over setting of the Cauvery Management Board are cleared. A senior police officer said there is simmering tension as it’s widely thought that the SC has given a 6-week deadline to the Centre to form the board. “We’ve been told by our higherups that we must continue the present security arrangements till there’s clarity about the CMB,” an officer said.
 
