BENGALURU: A scientist, who helped discover a drug to combat tuberculosis (TB), lays much of the credit for the finding to anganwadi workers. Dr Anil Koul, who helped discover Sirturo, known commonly as  , claimed the work rendered by anganwadis to help “free the country of tuberculosis” was “pivotal”. Anganwadi workers help collect sputum samples from suspect TB patients.

 Koul was research director at Janseen, a pharmaceutical wing of American multinational Johnson & Johnson. Bedaquiline is prescribed along with other TB drugs. The drug was approved by the USFDA (US Food and Drug Administration) in 2012.
 
 “Technology alone cannot do much in a weak healthcare system,” Koul told TOI. “Eradication of TB is multifactorial; everyone from healthcare-givers to anganwadi workers has a role to play.” Koul was in Bengaluru to take part in the 11th annual conference of the   (ISCR).
 
 Bedaquiline has been used on 600 patients — all multi-drug resistant — in India, and Koul revealed the efficacy of the drug on Indians is still being studied. “This is to understand how best it can be tailored to the Indian population,” he said.
 
 Between 2002 and 2012, Koul largely conducted his research in Europe. The drug was first used on a patient in Cape Town, South Africa, in 2005 during clinical trials. Koul said the path wasn’t all a bed of roses.
 
 “It’s always a moment of pride for a scientist when a discovery takes the shape of a bottle and tablets,” Koul said. “My focus earlier was on oncology. We were looking for a drug for cancer, but then I began working on a drug to combat multi-drug resistant TB. While working on the ground-breaking Bedaquiline, there were times when the research faced tough moments. Sometimes it got so bad that there was the danger of it being shelved. But we persevered and eventually succeeded. It was great teamwork; a combination of right people with right skills.”
 
 But he insists there is still a long way to go before the country can be fully rid of TB. Statistics show one person dies of the disease every three minutes in India. A quarter of TB patients worldwide is from India and it is estimated that over 25 to 30 billion dollars are spent every year on treating it.
 
 Prime Minister   had called for TB to be eradicated in India by 2025, and had asked all chief ministers to present action plans to meet that ambitious deadline. A person suffering from MDR TB currently takes 15,000 tablets in a span of two years along with one injection a day. All those drugs eventually affects muscle mass.
 
 Koul, currently director of the   (IMTECH), a research and development facility, under the aegis of the Union ministry of science and technology, is working on a new drug that could keep injections out of TB treatment. “Treatment for TB is still an unmet medical need in India,” Koul said, suggesting the challenge ahead is mammoth. 
 
 
