NEW DELHI: Taking a tough stand against illegal structures coming up in unauthorised colonies in Delhi, the   directed an immediate stay on all construction activity in 1,797 such colonies and asked the Centre on Tuesday to remove encroachments on public land and roads within two weeks.

 A bench of Justices   and Deepak Gupta said people cannot be allowed to continue building homes in violation of the law and government authorities could not be mute spectators by permitting violation of building laws and by-rules.
 
 Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar and lawyer A D N Rao, who are assisting the court as amici curiae, told the bench that poor people are building homes in unauthorised colonies under the impression that these will be allowed once their colonies are regularised and pleaded for a stay on construction activities. The bench then ordered a freeze on construction in unauthorised colonies.
 
 Agreeing with their submission, the bench said, “In view of this, we direct there should not be any construction in unauthorised colonies and on public land.”
 
 It noted that the apex court had, way back in 2004, passed orders not to allow construction in unauthorised colonies but this was not enforced by civic agencies in the intervening 14 years, resulting in mushrooming of illegal construction.
 
 The court also made it clear that even after it approved the government’s decision to regularise these colonies, structures which were constructed in violation of building rules and bylaws would not be protected. The Centre and the   agreed with the bench and said such structures would be demolished.
 
 Additional solicitor general Maninder Singh, appearing for the DDA, told the bench that there was no question of providing amnesty to illegal construction even if colonies were regularised. People will have to comply with building bylaws. “Regularisation will be only for the approved building and the rest will go. Regularisation is only for colonies and not to protect illegal construction. The people living there would have to take approval for their building from the authorities,” he said.
 
 In other words, if a building where two floors were approved and additional ones have come up, the one in violation of laws will need to go.
 
 The court also turned down the Centre’s plea to vacate its stay on amendments to the city’s Master Plan 2021, and asked it to “first prove its bona fide” by taking action in compliance of its order and posted the case after two weeks.
 
 The court directed the Centre to immediately constitute a task force as proposed by it earlier and begin removing encroachment on roads, pavements and streets within two weeks.
 
 The Centre had informed the bench that DDA has decided to constitute a 13-member special task force headed by its vice-chairman to identify encroachment of government land and move to reclaim it. He said the STF will give wide powers to direct local bodies and police to provide appropriate infrastructure facilities to the residents of Delhi and curb illegal construction.
 
 The court had earlier told the Centre, “There are no roads and pavements in the city as they are being encroached on... Green areas and roads in most colonies are being used for parking space.”
 
