TRICHY: The rural police busted a fake passport racket and arrested seven persons including a woman, Kalaiselvi, believed to be the mastermind, here on Thursday. The miscreants manipulated Aadhaar cards to secure bogus passports. 

 Kalaiselvi was arrested from the Trichy airport area along with her assistant Balakrishnan. Others who were apprehended were B Ramesh of Paravakottai in Thanjavur, a tout named Vijaykumar from Thuraiyur, travel agency employee Udhayakumar of Kulithalai in Karur, the owner of Renga Travels,  , of Varaganeri in Trichy and Natesh Kannadasan from   in Trichy. 
 
 It all started when Thuraiyur police launched the police verification process of M Senthli of   street in Maruvathur village near Thuraiyur. It came to light that the applicant was not the resident of the address mentioned on the passport application on January 30. Summoned by the Thuraiyur police inspector, Ramesh appeared in the police station and admitted to the crime on January 31. 
 
 Further investigation by the district crime branch (DCB) police led to the arrest of the others. The real identity of Senthil was B Ramesh whose old passport was confiscated and he was imprisoned in Singapore for overstaying. Though he required a new fake passport to go to Singapore, it now transpires that even the old one was fake. On approaching Kalaiselvi, he got the contacts of Balakrishnan, Udhayakumar, Suresh Kumar and Vijayakumar. 
 
 An employee in the travel agent’s office, Natesh Kannadasan manipulated the original Aadhaar of someone to create a fake one in the name of Senthil but with the photograph of Ramesh, at the behest of travel agency owner Suresh. Vijayakumar helped them with addresses for creating fake IDs. Initially, Ramesh paid Rs 20,000 to Vijayakumar and another Rs 15,000 at Thuraiyur bus stand while receiving the fake Aadhaar, smart ration card and voter ID on January 31. 
 
 “Their modus operandi was manipulation and tampering with the Aadhaar card. Though the network has been busted, our investigation is still on to check if there is any other person linked to the gang,” Trichy superintendent of police P S C Kalyan told reporters.
 
