Nagpur: In a jolt to Tata Motors, the ‘State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission’s’ circuit bench imposed Rs5,000 fine on its finance wing at Civil Lines, for “deficiency in service” by seizing a vehicle of customer over defaulting on instalments. While dismissing its case, the bench comprising presiding member BA Shaikh and member Jayashree Yengal stated that the appellant ‘Tata Motors Finance Limited (TMFL)’ had violated the terms of agreement by lifting the vehicle without serving a prior notice to respondent Munnilal Chouhan for payment of dues. The appellant challenged Nagpur District Consumer Forum’s decision to return the truck to Chandrapur resident, who had filed an appeal after the vehicle was seized. “The agreement binds appellant to issue notice to respondent declaring amount due from him and after its service, to seize the vehicle and sell it. However, no prior notice was served, neither any explanation is given for not doing so. Even appellant’s reply is also not clear on whether prior notice was duly served to respondent as per the agreement,” the judges said, while maintaining forum’s verdict. Chouhan had taken loan of Rs10.90 lakh from the ‘Tata Motors Finance Limited’ for purchasing the truck on instalments. He, however, defaulted on payments which led to seizing his vehicle on July 31, 2008. Subsequently, he lodged a complaint with forum contending that the Tata officials failed to issue any notice before seizing the vehicle. He claimed that he and his family members were dependent on its income and due to its seizure, they were facing physical and mental harassment.  Opposing his plea, the TMFL argued that the vehicle was purchased for purely commercial purpose and respondent was earning profit out of it. It questioned the territorial jurisdiction of city-based forum to decide the case, contending that the truck was purchased from Aurangabad while the complainant resided at Bhadravati. While ruling in Chouhan’s favour, the forum directed TMFL to return the vehicle and pay Rs2,000 compensation to him along with Rs1,000 towards litigation cost. This verdict was challenged by the appellant in state commission with same contentions. It too observed that there was clear violation of the pact on TMFL’s part by seizing the vehicle without notice which it constitutes to “deficiency in service”. “Some instalments were defaulted by the respondent, but that didn’t exempt appellant from serving notice so that the former would be able to pay the dues accordingly, and avoid seizing of truck. There is no evidence to show that respondent purchased vehicle purely for earning profit. He was using it for maintaining livelihood of his family by way of self-employment. Hence, he falls within the definition of consumer given as per the Consumer Protection Act, 1986,” judges Shaikh and Yengal ruled. They clarified that since Chouhan obtained loan from TMFL’s city office, the forum here has territorial jurisdiction to entertain and decide the complaint.