NEW DELHI: Former captain   feels India should have played the warmup games to get acclimatise to the conditions in South Africa.

 
 India lost the first Test against South Africa in Cape Town by 72 runs and now trail 0-1 in the three-match series. In his column for TOI, Gavaskar wrote, "Whatever the thinking of the team think-tank, they should have played the warmup games for the simple reason that the   invariably struggles in the first Test overseas and playing a couple of warm-up games would have taken away, to a great extent, that feeling of unfamiliarity while facing the Proteas quickies in the first Test."
 
 South Africa pace bowlers wrapped up the Test inside four days with the third day being washed out due to rain. With an early finish to the Test, the fifth and final day turned into an 'optional' practice session but not all players turned out for it. 
 
 Gavaskar expressed his disappointment saying since early finish ensured that players would not have been exhausted, they could have easily turned out for the training session.
 
 "As soon as the Test ended, a message should have been sent to the groundsman to not water the pitch, so the players could come and practise on the same pitch which had given them the problems. The next day was travel day so there would be little or no practice that day too," Gavaskar opined.
 
 "I have always been one for families to be part of a tour for even office goers go back to their families every evening so why shouldn't the players? But office hours are office hours and practising for a Test is about being in the office and preparing for the big day. That didn't quite happen. What was disappointing is the day after the Test which was the fifth day of the Test the 'optional' practice meant that only four out of the six reserves turned up for practice. Having had the third day off due to rain there was no question of fatigue and apart from the seamers all should have turned up for practice."
 
 Despite the manner in which   surrendered to the South Africa quick bowlers, Gavaskar is positive that the visitors can draw parity in Centurion. 
 
 "India may have lost the first Test but they are still in with a chance to win the series. It's never easy to come back in a three-match series after losing the first Test, but the Indian team has done it in Sri Lanka a couple of years back and could well do it again," Gavaskar said.
 
 Gavaskar said to make a comeback in the three-Test series, India batsmen will have to shrug their lethargy and raise their game at both the technical and physical level. In the first Test, India scored 209 and 135 in the first and second innings respectively. 
 
 "Their [India's] batsmen though have to stand up literally to see the dream of beating South Africa coming true. It was the batting that let them down admittedly on a pitch that was not easy to bat on but not impossible either. Their body language was so lethargic that it showed in their feet movement. They were mesmerised by the swing and kept following it leading to their dismissals in both innings. That's why they have to shake off this lethargy and stand up tall and show self-belief," he said.
 
