NAGPUR: A press release by Maoists’ western sub-zonal division of Gadchiroli suggests that a baby girl of two senior cadres, who were among the dead, is missing after the Boriya-Kasnasur forest encounter. They have released a photo of Shantabai, alias Mangli Padda, with a baby in her hands.

 A source in the district said that is possible that Shantabai and her husband, Divisional Committee Member Rawuthu Vijender, alias Shrinu, was with their kid. However, police are emphatically denying that the baby was among those killed or missing.
 
 Security forces clinched a historic high by eliminating 34 Maoists on April 22 and another six the next day.
 
 The police, who too have analysed the contents of the press note, claimed that just because Shantabai, who was the Aheri Local Organizational Squad commander, is seen holding a baby it cannot be said that the child too is dead.
 
 The cops are also accused by human rights activists of having killed seven tribals from Gatterpalli village and another three from Boriya, none of whom were associated with the Maoists.
 
 Sources from the district said that the presence of the baby girl with her mother cannot be ruled out as the Maoists had gathered for a meet and were not in combative mode. “During planned operations, Maoists prefer to leave their children at nearby villages with relatives. This particular meet seemed to have been organized by the   to interact with the villagers to garner support,” said a district source. 
 
 According to the Maoist press note, the meeting was probably organized by the Aheri operational command for fine-tuning the work of the summer Tactical Counter Offensive Campaigns (TCOC).
 
 Apart from 22 of their cadres, the Maoist press note also said that three villagers were among the list of dead. Shrinu, having 82 offences against him, had a reward of Rs20 lakhs. His wife Shantabai, with nine offences, had a reward of Rs8 lakhs.
 
 Gadchiroli SP Abhinav Deshmukh said the Maoist had for the first time released a consolidated poster having photographs of their slain cadres. “If the daughter would have been killed, the press notes would have clearly stated so. We feel they used the mother-daughter duo photo for proper identification purposes only,” he said.
 
 The human rights fact-finding committee, which visited the encounter spots last week, too did not mention any juvenile deaths. The committee, the security forces believe, is the voice of the Maoist front organizations.
 
 Admitting a major lapse in their standard operation procedure (SOP) required to follow in guerrilla warfare, the press-note also reiterated a past Supreme Court judgement which had stated that following Maoist ideology is no crime. They have also demanded a judicial probe into the incident and also called for a second bandh on Thursday. The Maoists had observed a bandh in Chhattisgarh, Telangana and Maharashtra on May 4. This time, however, the call is only for Gadchiroli.
 
 Deshmukh also said the “names and facts” released by the Maoists have been tallied with the police records. “We had earlier managed to identify 19 of the 40 bodies. After the press note, around 25 have been identified. The rest we are trying. Six bodies are still in the mortuary,’ he said.
 
 DGP felicitates C-60 commandos
 
 State Director General of Police Satish Mathur, along with additional DG (operations) D Kanakratnam, met the C-60 commandos behind the historic success of two encounters at Gadchiroli on Wednesday. 40 Maoists were killed at Boriya-Kasnasur and Nainer, the highest ever by any security agency in the country.
 
 Sources in the Gadchiroli police said Mathur warned the commandos against lapses especially during Thursday’s district bandh called by the Maoist protesting against what they term as fake encounters.
 
 The state top cop felicitated the commandos and also cautioned them of a Maoist ‘action team’ attack. “The DGP also stated the district police to remain alert for IEDs and such guerrilla tactics which the reds are now likely to employ for a desperate comeback,” said the source.
 
 
