JAIPUR: State education department’s   is giving a run for its money to elite private schools in the state. The portal developed over the last six months have chapters or contents in high definition audio-visual animated form for aanganwadi children to Class VIII (all subjects) and from IX to XII (limited subjects).

 The state has claimed to have become the first in the country to have uploaded all content on a website for both government and private schools. However, the content on several subjects in the website are under construction, officials say, it is progressing every day.
 
 The portal has content in four categories—video, textbook, for teachers and importance of education. It also allows students to practice chapters and self-assessment.
 
 Experts say that this medium has the potential to challenge the smart classes which are synonymous to the elite schools and a rarity for the government schools.
 
  in-charge of the portal says that the idea is to reach out students after classroom or school. “Since the penetration of cell phones along with data has broken all barriers in terms of accessibility. It provides the right time to utilize this opportunity for the promotion of education. The medium is user friendly and can be easily operated by Class V student and above. The layout is trendy keeping the core stakeholders students in mind,” said an officer.
 
 K B Kothari, an educationist, says that model requires child friendly e-pedagogies which can captivate students mind. “We have seen the how elite schools have taken a jump in learning outcomes and enhancing creativity of students by using Electronic interventions. Government has to channelize its energies to make it accessible and popular at a same time,” said Kothari.
 
 Meanwhile, state is also coming up with a digital library by providing access to the digital books, journals etc to the common man. The provision for the same has been added on the http://egyan.rajasthan.gov.in. Officials have informed that it will take some months to start. 
 
 
