JAIPUR: In a major relief to panchayati raj and rural development minister Rajendra Rathore, the Supreme Court on Monday ordered to close all the trial proceedings against the minister in the Dara Singh fake encounter case. 

 The division bench of Justice A K Goel and Indu Malhotra said “since all the co- accused in the case have been acquitted by the trial court, there is no justification to proceed against the petitioner. The proceedings against the petitioner will stand closed.” 
 
 Dara Singh, a bootlegger was killed in an alleged fake encounter with police on the outskirts of Jaipur on October 23, 2006.
 
 The Supreme Court, following a petition by his widow Sushila Devi, had ordered a   inquiry in the case which had resulted in the arrest of the minister and 15 policemen involved in the encounter.
 
 The district court in Jaipur had acquitted Rathore of the charges in the case on May 31, 2012, but the acquittal was challenged by the CBI before the high court. The high court, while staying the trial court order on October 26, 2012, asked the trail court to proceed against the minister while ordering his immediate surrender .
 
 Rathore then moved the Supreme Court seeking a stay the high court order. The apex court had stayed the high court order October 31, 2012 and the matter has been pending in the apex court since then.
 
 According to the CBI, two liquor smuggling gangs active in Churu district at the beginning of the millennium were led by Sumer Singh Fagadia and  . The CBI chargesheet alleged that Rathore supported Nangli’s gang and offered it “protection”. The CBI believes the Nangli gang killed Fagadia in 2005, thus leaving Singh and an accomplice, Virendra Telia, in charge of the gang.
 
 Thus began the feud between Rathore and Singh, which, the CBI chargesheet stated, led to Singh’s threat to kill the   if he did not stop supporting his rival. This, the CBI suspects, led to the alleged fake encounter.
 
 The then opposition ( ) MLA Rathore was arrested by the CBI on April 5, 2012, charging him with criminal conspiracy to kill liquor smuggler Dara Singh but he was discharged by the district and sessions court of all criminal charges on May 31, 2012 and he walked out of the jail whereas A K Jain, who retired from the post of  , was discharged by high court in February 2015.The involvement of senior officers and Rathore was based on telephone calls exchanged which, the accused said, were for official purposes.
 
 Meanwhile, the trial court acquitted all remaining 14 accused, most of them police officials too in the case on March 13 this year. Rathore on Monday presented the trial court order in the SC, which quashed the high court order, said Hemant Natha, his counsel. 
 
 The additional district judge acquitted all the 14 accused in offences under sections including 302 (murder) of IPC, advocate A K Jain, counsel for two of the accused, said the CBI failed to prove the encounter ‘fake’. 
 
 Those who were acquitted in the case are 1991 batch IPS officer A Ponnuchami, Arshad Ali (additional SP rank), Rajesh Chaudhary, Nisar Khan, Subhash Godara, Naresh Sharma (all inspector rank police officers), Satyanarayan Godara, Surendra Singh, Julfikar, Arvind Bharadwaj (all sub-inspector rank),   and Jagram (both head constable rank), Sardar Singh (police driver) and retired sub-inspector Munshi Lal.
 
 
