PATNA: Ten of the 11 newly elected members of Bihar Legislative Council, including CM   Kumar, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, former CM Rabri Devi and RJD’s state president Ram Chandra Purbey, took oath at a function here on Monday.

 Others who took oath as MLC for the first time are Khalid Anwar and Ram Ishwar Mahto of JD(U), Sayed Khurshid Mohammad Mohsin (RJD), Prem Chandra Mishra (Congress), Sanjay Paswan (BJP) and Santosh Kumar Suman (HAM-S)
 
 Council’s acting chairman Haroon Rashid administered the oath of membership to them. State’s health minister Mangal Pandey of BJP could not take oath as he could not reach the venue on time. “Pandey will be administered oath as the MLC the day he will report to the council secretariat about his availability,” Rashid told TOI.
 
 BJP sources said Pandey was in Bengaluru for campaigning in favour of the party candidates in Karnataka assembly polls.
 
 It would be Pandey’s second term as MLC after he takes oath, whereas Nitish,   and Rabri Devi have entered the upper house for their third term and Purbey for the fourth term. Purbey had earlier been elected MLC in 1986, 1992 and 1998.
 
 With the election of the 11 members recently, the 75-member Council now has its full strength. Despite losing three seats in the Council, Nitish’s JD(U), with the current strength of 32, remains the largest party in the upper house. With 22 members, BJP is the second largest party. Other NDA allies having presence in the council are LJP (2) and RLSP (one).
 
 With nine members, RJD is the largest among the opposition parties in the Council. Among the other opposition parties, Congress has 3, CPI 2 and HAM-S 1 members. 
 
 Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM (S) has entered the council for the first time. Its lone member Santosh is Manjhi’s son. Manjhi is his party’s lone member in the assembly.
 
 RJD can now stake claim for the post of the leader of opposition in the Council. Last year, its plea to appoint Rabri as the leader of opposition was rejected on the basis of lacking required number of MLCs for the post. RJD had then only seven MLCs.
 
 Earlier, RJD’s Gulam Gaus was given the status of leader of opposition in the Council when the party had nine MLCs. 
 
 
