NEW DELHI: The reduction in income tax rate from 30% to 25% for companies with a turnover of up to Rs 250 crore is a mixed bag for micro, small and medium enterprises ( ) as the cut is coupled with an increase in health and education cess.

 MSMEs with a turnover of up to Rs 50 crore will have to shell out more in taxes, while firms with a revenue of more than Rs 50 crore but up to Rs 250 crore will have to pay less.
 
 Budget 2018 has raised health and education cess from 3% to 4%, making companies up to a Rs 50-crore turnover worse off. 
 
 The applicable tax rate for a Rs 50-crore turnover entity will rise to 29.12% next fiscal from the current 28.84% (including a 3% cess), which will definitely pinch. However, companies with a turnover of Rs 50-250 crore will benefit as they will now pay a tax of 29.12% instead of 34.61%.
 
  minister   said, “As far as businesses are concerned, I have not forgotten them either, which is a very strong part of the middle class. So all businesses and companies with up to Rs 250-crore turnover uniformly pay 5% less tax. So they have a lot more investible surplus.”
 
 Abhishek Goenka, partner and direct tax leader at  , said, “The reduction is welcome since it enables reasonably large companies also to get the benefit of the reduced rate. 
 
 However, creating tax arbitrages drives behaviour to minimise taxes by moving activities into the eligible companies, and that is best avoided. An across-theboard reduction should have been considered instead.”
 
 Mahavir Lunawat, founder of Pantomath Group, which offers MSME advisory services, said, “After GST, smaller businesses had to transform their business models. The cut in corporate tax rate will further incentivise them to streamline their businesses.”
 
 Sudhir Kapadia, partner and national tax leader at EY India, said, “Though 99% of companies will fall under the 25% tax rate, the balance 1% actually contribute a disproportionately large share to the economy by way of turnover and taxes, both direct and indirect.”
 
