SALEM: Deputy planning officer of   said the Central government had spent major portion of the Rs 2 lakh crore allotted to military this year for material procurement. “Most of the materials have been procured from abroad. We could save these revenues if we have such manufacturing units in India,” Chawla said while speaking at an interaction session with stakeholders to promote Salem as defence hub on Thursday.

  The session was organized jointly by   Association (SADISSTIA),   (SPC) and Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) in the city. 
 
 President of SADISSTIA K Mariappan welcomed the gathering. General secretary of Tamil Nadu Small and Tiny Industries Association (TANSTIA) C K Mohan explained briefly about defence corridor for Tamil Nadu. Salem collector Rohini R Bhajibhakare inaugurated the session.
 
 In her inaugural speech, Rohini said the district administration would give all kinds of support to small and tiny industries and MSMEs if they start units in Salem. “As per Tamil Nadu policy, we have single window system to process the entrepreneur’s application and all things would be done as early as possible,” she said. 
 
 Chairman and managing director of Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO) Ramesh Chand Meena, managing director of Tidal Park B Elangovan explained about the support for promotion of defence corridor by the state government. 
 
 “The defence corridor in Salem will create major opportunities for MSMEs in manufacturing various components required for the production of major machineries and equipment for the defence sector,” Ramesh Chand Meena said.
 
 Former director general of Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO) K Tamilmani presented a paper on setting up the defence corridor in Salem. 
 
 Tamilmani said Salem has been the hub for textile and its related business. “We could supply uniforms and parachute clothes for military,” he said. He said at present about Rs 10,000 crore worth of business was happening to purchase uniforms and parachute cloths. “Our district will get revenue if we get at least 50% of this business,” he said.
 
 DRDO scientist  , general manager of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited K Ramakrishna, assistant general manager of Bharat Earth Movers Limited T N Srinivas, assistant general manager of Bharat Electricals Limited and works manager of Ordnance Factories Board G Ashok Kumar addressed the gathering about the requirements and procedure for enrolment of MSMEs as vendors to defence ministry.
 
 
