KOZHIKODE: In a government- sponsored plunder of precious tree wealth in  , over 1,000 rosewood (popularly known as Eeti) trees, many of which are centuries old, are being felled from the land parcels which were assigned by the government to ex-servicemen .

 The land parcels were assigned to the soldiers, who had participated in the WW-II, by the British under the ‘Wayanad colonisation scheme’. However, the valuable rosewood (dalbergia latifolia) trees, along with teak, are the property of the government as they were reserved and vested to the state government when the title deeds were formally granted to the landholders in 1969.
 
 Now, the forest department has given contracts to two contractors to cut 1,077 rosewood trees in various plots spread over Thomattuchal revenue village under   range in   forest division and to transport it to the timber depot of the forest department at Chaliyam in Kozhikode and at Kuppadi in Wayanad, from where it would be auctioned off.
 
 Greens say that many of the trees could be around 500 years old and the decision to cut them down reeked of gross environmental insensitivity from the part of forest department, especially when the district was facing the adverse effect of environmental degradation and climate change.
 
 “It is ironical that the mass felling of rosewood trees comes at a time when the government is moving ahead with plans to make Wayanad the first carbon- neutral district in the country and has even announced incentives for the public for planting trees. The government should have taken into account their heritage value or at least the ecosystem services the ancient trees provide as they are host to a range of species from rare orchids to birds, moss and lichen,” N Badusha, president of the Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samithi said.
 
 He added that most of the trees are healthy and could still survive for decades if left untouched. Some of the trees which are being felled are huge with girth measuring around 18 feet and they could well be over 500 years old, he added.
 
 The contractors have already started felling the trees in Ambalavayal and Moopainad panchayats. The owners of the land are being paid Rs 10,000 per cubic metre of wood as compensation. In a similar drive, the teak trees in assigned land parcels were felled in 1995.
 
  has been classified as a vulnerable species as per IUCN Red List in 1998 as the wild subpopulations are widely overexploited due to its high commercial value. Also, low germination rate of seeds in natural condition and slow growth rate of the species has led to dwindling population even in the forest areas of the state.
 
 Also, there is acute shortage of rosewood in global market due to strict export controls in place in several countries. Indian rosewood, especially from the Western Ghats, is one of the priciest timber species and is known for its unique colours varying from rose to dark-brown.
 
 Meanwhile, forest officials said that the decision to cut the trees was taken as they have become mature and following petitions from landholders that the mature trees were posing threat to their property.
 
 “Also, under the Wayanad colonisation scheme, it is the responsibility of the government to fell and remove the mature trees,”south Wayanad divisional forest officer P   said.
 
 The forest department is set to net crores of rupees through the auction as a cubic metre of rosewood could fetch between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 5 lakh.
 
 
