Mohali: It was a horrific Sunday night for a  , her husband and two others when a speeding car hit two motorcycles head on in Kharar. The collision caused a blast in a fuel tank of one of the bikes, leaving the woman receiving serious burns.

 The car driven by a Machhiwara resident also hit a pedestrian.
 
 While Amaninder Singh, 38, and his wife Mandeep Kaur, 37, residents of Gopalo village, sustained serious injuries, three others including Kuldeep Singh, 21, and Rohit, 24, sustained minor injuries.
 
 The injured were rushed to the Kharar civil hospital from where they were referred to PGI after getting first aid. Police said all the injured persons are out of danger.
 
 The police said they are yet to register a case against car driver Gurpreet Singh, but have lodged a DDR against him.
 
 Assistant sub-inspector Balbir Singh, investigating officer, said Mandeep received 30% burns in legs and back and her husband received injuries on the face.
 
 Kuldeep and Rohit, both residents of Kharar, were riding the other motorcycle and were discharged after treatment.
 
 Dr Bobby Gulati, senior medical officer, civil hospital, said five persons were brought to the hospital emergency out of which Amaninder and Mandeep were seriously injured. They were referred to PGI. Kuldeep and Rohit were discharged after treatment. Another person was also brought with minor injuries and was discharged after first aid.
 
 Police said Gurpreet was driving his car recklessly. His car hit two motorcycles coming from opposite direction while overtaking another vehicle near the civil hospital. 
 
 As a blast occurred in the fuel tank of the bike ridden by the couple, some petrol fell on Mandeep due to which she sustained burns on her legs and back, said the police.
 
 The investigating officer said, “We are yet to record the statements of the injured couple. A DDR has been registered against Gurpreet Singh and he will be arrested once the statement is recorded. Gurpreet in his preliminary statement revealed he had a fight with his family due to which he was driving rash in a fit of anger. He lost control and hit two motorcycles head on.”
 
 BOX: Accident-prone road 
 
 The spot where the accident occurred is prone to such accidents. It is very congested area and generally vehicles travel at a very high speed. Inspector Rajesh Hasteer, SHO, Kharar police station, said they have sought permission to set up speed breakers on the road to check speeding.
 
 BOX: Fatal 
 
 Jan 19 | A 30-year-old man was crushed by a speeding vehicle near Chandpur village while trying to cross the road on his bike
 
 Dec 29, 2017 | A tractor driver was run over by another tractor while he was crossing the road
 
 Dec 7, 2017 | A man travelling to Chandigarh from Kharar was hit by an unknown vehicle. The resident of Kharar succumbed to injuries later.
 
 
