JAIPUR: Nearly 12 years after the police encounter of bootlegger Dara Singh, the trial court in Jaipur to pronounce its judgment in the case on Tuesday.   alias Daria Jat, a resident of   in Churu district’s Rajgarh tehsil, was killed in an alleged fake encounter with the police near Jaipur on October 23, 2006.

 The accused in the high profile case initially included Rajegovernment’s cabinet minister   and 14 police officials of various ranks, including two senior IPS officers, the then ADG (crime) A K Jain and additional director general of police (SOG) A Ponnuchami. Both Rathore and Jain were booked for ‘hatching conspiracy’ to eliminate Dara Singh, however, discharged by the courts on the ground of lack of evidence. During the protracted trial, most of the witnesses, including Dara’s wife Sushila Devi and his brother, had turned hostile.
 
 The Supreme Court following a petition by his wife Sushila Devi handed over the investigation in the case to the CBI on April 9 2011. Sushila Devi charged the police of “faking an encounter” to kill her husband, also pointed out in her complaint that ADG Jain had got a reward of Rs.25,000 announced on Dara Singh’s head six days prior to the encounter to make him fall prey to the police. She had claimed that from January 29, 2005, till the date of the alleged encounter, there had been no case registered against him anywhere. Dara Singh was acquitted in 19 out of the 20 cases registered against him, her complaint pointed out.
 
 The CBI has slapped charges of murder, criminal conspiracy and kidnapping, among others, on the accused in the case for killing Singh in a fake gun battle by a team of   (SOG) of Rajasthan police.
 
 In the chargesheet, the CBI has accused two IPS officers-additional Director General of Police A K Jain, Inspecotr General A Ponnuchami, besides additional superintendent of police Arsad Ali, inspectors Nisar Khan and  , assistant sub-inspector  , sub-inspector Satyanarayan Godara and seven other policemen for the encounter.
 
 As per the case registered at the Mansarovar police station in Jaipur, the police had intercepted a bus on its way to Ajmer on the outskirts of the state capital Jaipur while in hot pursuit of the Dara Singh gang. One of the gang members purportedly fired at the police while trying to escape once the bus was stopped near Rajendra Nagar. The police had opened fire at the members of the gang who were fleeing and Dara Singh kiled in the cross firing.
 
 A 315-bore rifle and a pistol were allegedly recovered from him. Dara Singh’s body was cremated in his native village only on the fifth day after his death because of widespread protests in the area.
 
