MADURAI: The rush of students and parents seeking admissions to courses in the arts and science colleges in the city for the past few weeks has intensified after the plus-two results were out on Wednesday. College principals in the city say that there is a never before demand for arts and science courses this year.

 They say that the applications, particularly for mathematics and science courses, have high demand. While the demand for English literature has been constant for a while, the demand for computer science has suddenly gone up.
 
 Academics say that the tepid placements and job prospects of engineering courses have made the students to think twice before taking up engineering courses. However, the craze for top engineering colleges in the southern districts is only increasing.
 
 Durga Santhosh, a candidate from Anna Nagar who had come to the college to apply for botany, said that she has chosen the course since she is interested in doing research in higher education in the field.
 
  from Thavittusandhai in the city said that his niece has chosen physics as top priority since a degree in physics is a gateway for several research oriented higher studies. There are also many central government jobs awaiting for physics degree holders, he said.
 
 P Krishnan from Tirunelveli, who had come to the American College seeking admission to BCA, said that he is interested in coding and computer languages and that is the main reason behind his choice. Although there are colleges in his home town, he preferred Madurai for better exposure, he said.
 
 Principal of the American College M Davamani Chirstober said, "The demand for arts and science courses has been increasing. But the kind of response that we have seen so far for the courses in our colleges is like never before. The response has been overwhelming both for the aided courses as well as self-financing courses."
 
 Going by the rate at which the applications are received, the demand is expected to go up this year by 25%. Last year 24,000 candidates had applied for various courses in the college and this year it has crossed 18,000 already. The college is receiving applications only through online which started from April, he said. "Commerce, English, physics and mathematics are the most sought after courses this year," Davamani Christober added.
 
 The rush is not limited to private colleges only. Hundreds of students visited   on Thursday seeking admissions. "Last year we issued around 10,000 applications and this year it would go up to 15,000. A total of 2,600 applications were issued on the day one," said principal P Vijaya. "Most of the students preferred computer science, mathematics and physics this year," she said.
 
 An authority from Lady Doak College said that English, mathematics, commerce and physics are the most sought after courses this year. They have already received over 7,000 applications this year and expect it to cross the last year’s total number of 18,000.
 
 
