BENGALURU: No entry for plastic covers or bottles. No throwing of garbage haphazardly. More than 32,000 fans of RCB and other teams set to throng   during every cricket match, the first of which is scheduled this Friday, have to follow such a protocol.

  This is because the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and   (KSCA) are all set to turn the cricket matches into zero waste and green events.
 
 N S Ramakanth, member of the expert committee on solid waste management, who is associated with the initiative, said every match at the stadium generates about 3 tonnes of waste and all these years there has been no proper practice of waste disposal. 
 
 “In order to ensure it is not repeated this time, we have ensured no plastic covers or bottles are allowed inside. Inside, food vendors have been told to replace plastic cups and plates with greener alternatives like areca leaf plates, etc. Even the straw that spectators use to sip their favourite drink won’t be of plastic but of paper this time,” he added.
 
 Ramakanth along with BBMP joint commissioner (solid waste management) Sarfaraz Khan, has already held several meetings with KSCA officials, the event management team, about 25 vendors and ground staffers. Stakeholders have been told to minimise the plastic banners and replace them with cloth materials.
 
 According to the  , volunteers in green T-shirts in each stand in the stadium will ensure waste is thrown at bins kept for wet/dry waste. “Leftover food items will be sent to freezers to ensure it is distributed to the needy the next morning. The remaining organic waste will be sent for composting and dry waste will be managed by Hasiru Dala, which works with waste pickers,” said a senior official with the BBMP.
 
 He added that they have taken steps to manage waste outside the stadium as well. Any plastic items, including covers on T-shirts sold there, will be seized during match days. Mechanised sweeping machines will be deployed during match days to keep thhe four main roads around the stadium clean.
 
 KSCA CEO Lt Col Srinivas M N (retd) said they have extended complete support to the civic body in this regard.
 
 
