PUNE: Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment   announced funds amounting to Rs 50 lakh for the   of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj and Govind Gaikwad at   Budruk village, 30km from Pune. 

 Athawale, on Tuesday, said, “I will give Rs 25 to Rs 30 lakh for the memorials of Govind Gaikwad and Sambhaji Maharaj.” He said the funds would be used for their improvement and upkeep.
 
 Gaikwad’s samadhi was caught in a controversy after some villagers removed a board on December 29. He is believed to have performed the last rites of Chhatrapati Sambhaji. Some were booked under the Atrocities Act. 
 
 Villagers later said they resolved the matter the same day.
 
 The controversy had repercussions in Koregaon Bhima and Sanaswadi. The villagers observed a bandh on January 1 when dalits assembled to mark 200 years of the Koregaon Bhima battle. Violence erupted leading to damaging and burning of vehicles. A youth died in the stone pelting.
 
 The minister said “the clash at Koregaon Bhima was a pre-planned conspiracy” and blamed the police for their “callous attitude” in handling it.   said “better vigil by police officials would have avoided the conflict between two communities.”
 
 “Had the agitators been stopped at Vadhu, the violence would not have spread,” he said, adding, “there are complaints about the involvement of Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote. There should be an inquiry and the guilty should be punished.” 
 
 Athawale said police are collecting “solid evidence” against the two so that they don’t get bail.
 
 He said there was no Naxalite involvement in the violence, but a probe would check it. 
 
 “There is no connection between ( Gujarat MLA) Jignesh Mewani’s speech at Elgar Parishad in Shaniwarwada on December 31 and the clashes on January 1,” Athawale said. 
 
 “There is anger in the Maratha community about the Atrocities Act. There were demands for changes or even its abolition. The act will not change,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Athawale, founder of Republic Party of India which is part of National Democratic Alliance, said his party will be with the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha and assembly elections. He said Shiv Sena should fight the Lok Sabha election with NDA and the assembly election on its own
 
