KOCHI : Late detection of   in an advanced state (85% cases) combined with poor health status restricts aggressive treatment options in patients, leading to a higher mortality rate in  .

 These findings were brought out in a paper titled 'Cancer care in  : Perspectives from visiting Canadian oncologists'. They visited cancer institutes in the state, even Regional Cancer Centre (RCC), and compared their experience in  . At   that takes up nearly 16,000 new cases every year (representing a third of the cancer cases in Kerala), aggressive treatment and combination chemotherapy are delivered less commonly, when compared to what happens in Canada.
 
  
 This is due to the difficult social and economic conditions of the patient. The situation is slightly different in the private sector.
 
 “If it is a curable malignancy, then we ensure that the patient doesn’t go without treatment due to the lack of money. But it remains a fact that only 15-20% patients, even with curable cancers, come early for treatment,” said, oncologist Dr VP Gangadharan, VPS Lakeshore hospital. The paper noted that ‘it was not uncommon for one oncologist to see 80 patients a day’, highlighting the functioning of RCC. “The high clinical volume limits the amount of time that can be spent with each patient. Understandably, they are left with little opportunity to initiate important conversations about prognosis and goals of care,” it stated.
 
 This is because there are not enough facilities to manage cancer patients. While the facility in government hospitals is inadequate, many can’t afford private care. However, the huge rush at RCC is a major barrier to quality cancer care in Kerala, leading to an intense workload on oncologists that limits time for important conversations.
 
 “One-third of all cancer patients come here for treatment. Every year, we get around 16,000 new patients. There is a general tendency among people who can afford costly treatment to first go to a private hospital. When treatment progresses, they realize that the treatment is too expensive, resulting in catastrophic poverty for the family,” said RCC director  .
 
 However, despite the rush, Canadian oncologists found RCC to be more ‘patient-centred’ than the centres in Canada, where patients return to clinic on numerous occasions to see each specialist separately. The most unique aspect of cancer care in Kerala is family involvement, with at least one family member staying near the patient during the entire admission period.
 
 Meanwhile, RCC will soon have a new building with theatres for bone marrow transplant. The estimated cost for the building is Rs 180 crore.
 
