RAJKOT:  ,  , has a Rajkot connection. Among the scientists from all over the country working on this mission, Dr R Satheesh Thampi (46), an alumnus of Saurashtra University’s department of physics, is playing major role in India’s dream project. 

 Thampi is heading the planetary science branch at space physics laboratory of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, Indian space research organization (Isro) in Thiruvananthapuram, and is project manager (testing and calibration) of CHACE-2 (Chandra’s atmospheric composition explorer-2) payload of Chandrayaan-2 mission. 
 
 Talking to TOI from Thiruvananthapuram, Thampi said, “CHACE-2 will study the neutral composition of lunar exosphere from a circular polar orbit. Apart from obtaining mass spectra of the tenuous Lunar exosphere, the instrument will have capability of tracking the distribution of a pre-selected set of species with higher temporal resolution.” The launch date will be scheduled sometime in April. 
 
 This is the first time in a lunar mission heavy playload lifter GSLV MKII will launch the spacecraft weighing 3,290 kg as a module and will carry an orbiter, a rover and lander to the moon, he added. 
 
 A native of Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu, Thampi comes from a farmer’s family and had come to Rajkot in 1995 to study. His elder brother Dr Rajesh Thampi, who is also a scientist, was then working with Institute of Plasma Research (IPR) in  . It was Rajesh who suggested   (SU) to Thampi after seeing performance of some students from SU working with him. 
 
 Thampi completed his postgraduation in MSc physics and then doctorate in physics (on high temperature superconductors) under Prof D G Kuberkar of SU during the period 1995 to 2001. He then joined Physical Research Laboratory (PRL), Ahmedabad, in 2002. 
 
 Remembering his days at SU, Thampi said, “Our department got the funding for a project by   and I completed that project. I got much appreciation from my faculty and scientists for completing this project.” 
 
 A lover of Gujarati culture and food, Thampi’s successful journey began after he was transferred to Vikram Sarabhai Space Center (VSSC), Thiruvananthapuram, in 2007. 
 
 “When I joined VSSC, the Chandrayan-1 project was underway and I got an opportunity to work for it, but it was a small contribution. Now, I have got chance to play major role in Chandrayan-2 project,” Thampi said.
 
 Thampi’s teacher professor Kuberkar said, “Thampi always desired to be a scientist rather than a teacher since his students days. He was very sincere and dedicated student with very sound knowledge in the development of new research facilities. His area of research was mercury-based super conductor suitable for large current carrying application without resistance.”
 
 
