Gurugram: For the first time this week,   looked flustered. Face buried in his hands, the 21-year-old might have been wondering what could have been. Perhaps, the mental strain was finally catching up.

 
 
 Almost a week ago, he found himself leading at the World   Championships in Mexico only to find about the vagaries of golf in a faltering final round. A three-over 75 on Sunday put paid to his hopes at his National Open.
 
 
 
 
 
 “Disappointments are part of the game,” he pointed out, “It’ll just make me stronger. The next time I’m in this situation, I’ll do better.”
 
 
 
 
 
 It has been pretty much a week of glad tidings for the two-time winner on the European Tour. A Masters call, more PGA Tour events, a home course record, Rory McIlroy’s invitation for a practice round – Shubhankar’s star ratings have shot up after his meteoric rise.
 
 But the game can be humbling and the youngster knows about it. “In golf, you may give your 100 per cent but things don’t work for you.”
 
 Day One was a fine example of resilience as he recovered four strokes on his final 9, Day Two was an incredible high of 64, Day Three was a grind. On Day Three, he dropped nine shots, including three double bogeys. “I made a bad swing on the fifth hole, which put me out of contention. I was trying to come back, but I made another bad one on the seventh. You can’t really drop too many on this course,” he admitted.
 
 The European and Asian Tours Race leader will get some much-needed rest and peace at home in Panchkula, and then there is so much to look forward to. “I’m looking forward to playing the WGC Match Play tournament in Texas. It’ll be a good break from stroke play. The last time I won a matchplay event was the All-Indian Amateur, which was six years ago. I know there is a world of difference between the two but I enjoy the format.”
 
 And then, there’s the Masters in April. “I also can’t wait for Augusta. I’ll have to sit down with my coach Jesse Grewal and prepare my game-plan for the year’s first Major which I have watched numerous times on television.” At WGC Mexico, he played with Phil Mickelson in the final group. In Georgia, he might just run into his hero Tiger Woods.
 
 
