Nagpur: Jampacked Sai Sabhagruha was echoing with loud cheers from the audience during a dance programme ‘Nritya Nirvritti’ based on one of the eight major Indian classical dances Kuchipudi, organized by Sri Sai Nataraja Academy of   Dance, Nagpur branch (SSNAK) on Sunday.

 The programme was organized to mark the 8th anniversary of SSNAK which actively works towards propagating the rich cultural heritage of India through Kuchipudi art form. The performances were staged by 19 girls of varied age groups, all dances being choreographed by AP Nivedita, who started the Nagpur branch of SSNAK and has been training students since then.
 
 Throughout the show, the girls presented Kuchipudi dance sequence that included Ranga Puja, Ganesha Kautwam, Keertanam: Garuda Gamana, Tulaja Rajendra Shabdam, Saraswati Stuti, Padavarnam, Dashaavtara Shabdam, Keertanam: Bala Kalnakamaya Chela and Tarangam: Neelamegha Shareera. Vibrant dresses and accessories along with exceptional and realistic expressions made the experience all the more magical. Ghungrus shimmering in rhythm with perfect coordination between the feet and hands were the highlights of the show. Swift movements and clean formations were also applauded by the attendees.
 
 During Tarangam, the final dance performance, girls danced on a brass plate which kept the audience awestruck.
 
 Vocal support was given by Srivalli Sharma from Hyderabad. Musical accompaniment included Nivedita on nattuvangam, Shreedharaacharya from Hyderabad on mridangam and Anil Kolanka from Hyderabad on violin. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Nivedita said, “Nowadays when children are aping the western culture, things like these are the ones which will bind them to rich culture and heritage of our nation.” 
 
 Sharma was felicitated at the end of the programme for precious inputs in the field of art and dance.
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar, CA Swati Kulkarni, director of BVM’s Nagpur Kendra A Shastri and assistant general manager of State Bank of India, Nagpur main branch, Mohan Changde, were also present during the programme.
 
 
