AHMEDABAD: The enforcement directorate (ED) on Monday conducted searches in connection with a money laundering case against a Vadodara-based company, Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd (DPIL), for allegedly cheating various banks out of Rs 2,654 crore.

  
  ED officials said seven sites in Vadodara district connected to DPIL were raided. The   last week registered case for cheating and criminal conspiracy against the owners of DPIL,   and his sons Amit   and Sumit Bhatnagar.
 
 The company’s corporate office in the Gorwa area, factories in Vadadala and Ranoli and residences of its executives in Nizampura and New Alkapuri areas were searched. The ED had filed a criminal complaint under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against the company, based on the FIR filed by CBI.
 
 The ED is probing if the loans allegedly defaulted on were laundered to create illegal assets by the accused. The CBI says that DPIL, which manufactures electric cables and equipment, is promoted by Suresh Bhatnagar and his sons Amit and Sumit, who were also executives in the company.
 
 The FIR filed with the CBI alleges that DPIL, through its management, fraudulently availed of credit from a consortium of 11 banks (both public and private) since 2008, leaving behind debts of Rs 2,654.40 crore as on June 29, 2016. The Rs 2,654 crore loan was declared a non-performing asset in 2016-17.
 
 The company and its directors secured term loans and credit facilities, despite being on the Reserve Bank of India’s defaulters list and Export Credit Guarantee Corporation’s caution list when the credit limits were sanctioned by the consortium.
 
 When forming the consortium in 2008, Axis Bank was the lead bank for the term loan and Bank of India was the lead bank for cash credit limits. It was alleged that the firm, with active connivance of various bank officials, managed to get its credit facilities enhanced.
 
 According to the CBI FIR, the company had allegedly been submitting false stock statements to the lead bank by treating receivables due for more than 180 days (non-current assets) as due for less than 180 days (current assets) to get more cash credit.
 
 
