BHUBANEWAR:  's   district observer,  , on Saturday submitted her report on MP   Panda's conduct towards party workers to chief minister  .

 In her two-page report, Mallik has pointed out that unilateral allocation of MP local area development (LAD) funds by Baijayant has led to resentment among the party's block level leaders.
 
 "I have submitted my report on the basis of information collected during field visits and interaction with local leaders. I also spoke to Baijayant babu over phone regarding the complaints," Pramila told TOI.
 
 Asked whether she has recommended any action against the four-time MP, Pramila said she has left it for the party president to decide since she was not authorized to recommend any action.
 
 "There is a practice that all MPs allocate their local area development funds in consultation with local MLAs or prominent block level leaders since they understand the need of the people better. It was pointed out in the report that the MP did not consult any MLA or block level leader before allocating the funds," said a BJD source.
 
 As per the guidelines of the MPLAD scheme, each MP has the choice to suggest the district collector for works to the tune of Rs 5 crores per annum in his/her constituency.
 
 Naveen ordered the inquiry against Baijayant as party workers from different blocks have been accusing him of ignoring them. Demand for action against Baijayant grew louder after he recently alleged bureaucratic high-handedness in the party's affairs.
 
 Political observers said irrespective of the findings of the report, the BJD president may not initiate immediate action against the Kendrapada MP.
 
 "The way things are being done over the past few days, it looks certain the BJD president would be taking some tough action against Baijayant. He might be preparing the grounds before cracking the whip," said a political analyst.
 
 Baijayant, meanwhile, continued his diatribe against bureaucratic high-handedness. "I hold no grudges against my party colleagues & ofc bearers who are making strange (& easily disproved) complaints agnst me. Evry1 in Odisha knows who the villain is, the babu who now controls the party & is armtwisting them. I'm fighting for their, my & Odisha's self respect," Baijayant tweeted.
 
