NEW DELHI: He loved  . He started early, going for   as a boy. But he got his first recognition when he was crowned   in 2014. Soon, he appeared at various   and also got a call from a Bollywood director who said he was willing to give him a break. 

 But things really went downhill for 22-year-old Adnan Khan in Mumbai as he needed more money for his daily expenses. He struck at a   outlet in Dwarka in December last year and decamped with Rs 3.5 lakh cash. He was on the run ever since until his luck ran out on Monday. 
 
 Confirming the arrest, DCP (Dwarka) Shibesh Singh said Khan was arrested from a bus stand near Dwarka Mor by a team led by SHO Dwarka (north) Jasmohinder Singh. 
 
 The heist at a Domino’s outlet at Sector 12 had occurred on December 11. The outlet’s manager, Amit Yadav, had told the police that four unidentified men with knives had entered the shop around 3.30am and demanded all the money. Yadav had said he had joined recently and didn’t know the password. The accused had then taken away the cash box, containing three days’ collection amounting to Rs 3.5 lakh.
 
 Several police teams had been deployed to arrest the accused. One of them, later identified as Ram, was arrested by a crime branch team. Ram had told the police that Khan had been brought on board as he did not have any past criminal record. 
 
 Teams started gathering information about Khan and found that he had been constantly changing his location and phone numbers. Police then received information that Khan would come to Dwarka Mor on Monday. 
 
 Khan said that he had several girlfriends as he used to perform at many night clubs in the capital. He was also part of a professional dance group that used to perform at private parties and wedding ceremonies. But it was still not enough for the kind of lifestyle he was used to and to live in Mumbai. Khan was offered a role in a forthcoming movie, but he didn’t have enough money to survive there for long. So he approached Ram who was his neighbour in Uttam Nagar.
 
 
