Guntur: Despite the state government laying emphasis on organic  , it seems that   across the state are not convinced of switching over to the low-cost cultivation system. The farmers in   district, who are known to use the high quantity of pesticides in the country, are still continuing with this practice. The sale of pesticides in the district witnessed a steep rise during the recently concluded crop season.

 The sales of pesticides increased by 13 per cent, as compared with the last year, according to sources. Surprisingly, the use of pesticides is almost equal in both upland areas and delta region. While farmers in upland areas grow cotton, chilli and pulses, their counterparts in the delta region produce paddy and other food grains. 
 
 According to sources in the   distribution sector, pink bollworm on cotton resulted in the high use of pesticide during the rabi season. “While chilli farmers had picked up huge stocks of pesticide during the season in 2016, the cotton farmers purchased high volumes of chemicals to take on the pink bollworm in 2017,” said an official of the agriculture department. 
 
 However, farmers in the district reportedly sprayed around 129 metric tonnes of pesticides during the kharif and rabi seasons in 2016, while the use of pesticides jumped to 145 metric tonnes in the recently concluded crop seasons. “Rise in the use of pesticides for cultivation has been a matter of serious concern and more awareness programmes are needed to ensure that farmers stop using chemicals on crops,” said Dr Srekanthan Thampi, spices board deputy director. 
 
 Farmers in East and West Godavari are using high volume of pesticides to grow paddy. While 115 tonnes of pesticides were used in East Godavari, it is 110 tonnes in West Godavari. “It is not only poisoning the harvests but also causing harm to the soil that is losing natural nutrients,” said an official. 
 
 Y Venkateswara Rao, president of Raithu Nestham foundation, which is closely working with the agriculture department to spread zero-budget farming practices, said that the low returns on yields is one of the reasons why farmers are resorting to the use of pesticides to save their crops. He added that providing reasonable remunerations would encourage the farmers to go for organic farming. 
 
 
