NEW DELHI: There is bad news for businessmen and industrialists who have defaulted on payment of loans taken from Punjab National Bank. Sniffing a scam, the bank has approached Delhi Police seeking action against several defaulting firms and non-performing assets (NPA). Many of the firms granted loan, the bank has found, don’t even exist.

 It is learnt that in the past few days FIRs have been lodged against the accused firms on PNB’s complaint. A top Delhi Police officer confirmed the developments saying notices would be soon served on them to join investigations.
 
  
 Massive raids are planned on their premises next week onwards and the role of bank officials will also be probed, sources said. A watch is also being kept on the directors of the firms as the bank suspects that a few of them have absconded.
 
 The developments come in the aftermath of the multicrore Nirav Modi-Mehul Choksi scam and directions given by the finance ministry asking all banks to identify and act sternly on their NPAs, a senior officer said.
 
 The FIRs were filed after the bank conducted an internal audit in which the firms were identified and many of their directors were untraceable. TOI has accessed the complaints submitted by the bank in which the Delhi-based firms and their directors have been booked for cheating, forgery, criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy, but refrained from naming them.
 
 Once of the complaints is against a metal casting firm and its directors who the bank claims owe around Rs 24 crore. The firm was declared an NPA over non-payment of dues.
 
 J M Sharma, assistant general manager of  , said, “Despite follow-ups and meetings, the borrower company neither submitted stock statements nor deposited sales proceeds or routed book debts realised through its accounts. It has misappropriated the bank’s funds for which all responsible people of the borrower company are criminally liable.”
 
 On a firm dealing in auto parts, PNB senior manager, Gopal Dass Devnani, said that the bank’s auditors visited the premises for inspection, but found no unit in the name of firm against which the loan was taken. “The property belonged to another person who was running a different business. He informed that our defaulter was in no way connected to him,” he added.
 
 Another auto parts manufacturer and its director were booked after the bank’s auditors visited the unit at Anand Parbat industrial area and found a different firm running there. PNB has also lodged an FIR against an aluminium wire manufacturer for allegedly defrauding the bank of Rs 93 lakh.
 
 A handloom firm accused of submitting fake title deeds as security and having misappropriated stocks left the bank no choice but to lodge an FIR against it. PNB has also invoked IPC section of impersonation as somebody had posed as the guarantor.
 
 Similarly, during inspection of a Shahdara-based packaging firm that had taken a loan, the bank found another firm functioning there since the past 16 years. “We feel the proprietor has absconded,” the bank manager said. Another FIR is against an export firm. The bank conducted multiple visits at its sites in Shalimar Bagh and Paharganj, but found the hypothecated stocks, plant and machinery missing.
 
 
