BHOPAL: Four persons were killed and several injured during indiscriminate firing by a group of people following violent protests that erupted in Madhya Pradesh’s Gwalior, Bhind, Morena, Sagar, Balaghat and Satna districts in support of 'Bharat bandh' called by Dalit organisations across the country against a recent Supreme Court ruling diluting the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act 1989.

 
 
 
 
 
 Casualties were reported from Gwalior, Bhind and Morena districts. Two were reportedly killed in police firing.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 In view of the communally charged atmosphere, internet services has been shut in Gwalior-Chambal region. School children were sent home in police vehicles. Army has also been called in to control the situation in Gwalior town where two people were killed in cross firing. Gwalior bench of high court has summoned the district collector following worsening law and order situation.
 
 One person was allegedly shot dead by unidentified person who was part of the agitating mob in Morena, said sources. He was referred to a government hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. The deceased has been identified as Rahul Pathak, who was standing outside his house when he was fired upon.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Local administration in Morena had to impose curfew to take control of the situation. 
 
 District collector Bhaskar Laskar confirmed that a curfew has been imposed across all police stations in the region. Three protestors were allegedly injured in the police firing.
 
 With posters, banners and flags, supporters of the Bhim Army and other Dalit organigations, stopped over a dozen long-distance trains on the Mumbai and Delhi route in Morena leaving hundreds of passengers stranded at various railway stations.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 When Chhattisgarh Express train was stopped at the railway station mob started pelting stones targeting the engine and the motorman. Police were not able to rescue the engine drivers till last reports came from the spot.
 
 At some places, the protesters have also blocked national and state highways. "People have placed slabs on railway tracks to stop the train. Train services have been disrupted due to the  , leaving hundreds of passengers stranded and panicked at railway stations. Several shots were fired by the protestors in air. Policemen and journalist sustained injuries in the stone pelting," said Giriraj Rajoriya, a local journalist reporting live from spot told TOI. Several shops around Morena railway stations were also set on fire.
 
 Police had to lob tear gas shells and use mild lathi charge to disperse mob in Gwalior town where they caused damages to several private vehicles and pelted stones on police. ASP (Dabra) Rajesh Tripathi was attacked in Dabra area of Gwalior. He has sustained fatal injuries. 
 
