GUNTUR: The numerically strong Kapu community is gearing up to play kingmaker on AP’s political stage. Undeterred by the bitter experiences left by Tollywood megastar Chiranjeevi’s   (PRP) in the past, Kapu leaders looked determined to dictate terms to the mainstream political parties in the state. Although the Kapu community has emerged crucial on the political scene post bifurcation of the state, it has been playing second fiddle to dominant caste groups like   and Reddys in the state.

 
 The decision of another star hero and   chief Pawan Kalyan to snap ties with the TDP had rekindled the hopes of the Kapu community to occupy centre stage. Kapu community leaders are of the view that Pawan Kalyan, who was the youth wing chief and star campaigner for the PRP in the 2014 elections, is guarded in his approach as Jana Sena chief as he does not want to repeat the old mistakes. Pawan’s announcement that the party would be contesting from all the 175 Assembly constituencies is indicative of the party’s dreams to remain a force to reckon with.
 
 The BJP’s decision to anoint two prominent Kapu leaders in key posts, including party president also shows as to how the community is going to play a key role on the state’s political arena. In fact, the BJP central leadership deviated from its established tradition of picking up leaders who are associated with the RSS to the top post when it named former   minister Kanna Lakshminarayana as state party president. Kanna served as minister for about 14 years in successive Congress governments in the state and a legislator for nearly two and half decades. His credibility to take on TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu seemed to have helped him bag the top post.
 
 By appointing Kanna, the BJP appears to be determined to cut Naidu to size for parting ways with the NDA.
 
 Naidu sensed all these developments long ago and that was the reason for him to give prominent portfolios, including a deputy CM in the cabinet to Kapus. He kept state party chief Kala Venkata Rao unchanged even after taking him into the cabinet perhaps because he was a Kapu leader. Naidu recently made   corporation chief and named   to the TTD board. It remains to be seen whether that would help TDP retain the Kapu votes in the next polls.
 
 
