ALLAHABAD: The top three scorers of   Class X examinations, the results of which were announced in Allahabad on Sunday, might have belonged to agrarian families but they didn’t let their humble backgrounds stop them from achieving their dreams.

 
 This year’s topper of UP Board Class X examinations Anjali Verma belongs to Subedar Ka Pura village and scored a whopping 96.3% in the examination.
 
 Her father Asha Ram Verma, who is a farmer, has been the driving force in her life. “We are not from a very well off family but my father bought me every book I ever wanted to read. I do not know how he manages to do that,” said Anjali. She also gives credit for her success to her brothers, who are preparing for Civil Services. Talking about her father, Anjali said, “Wo humko ghar ka kuch kaam nahi karne dete the’ (He never allowed me to do any household chores and asked me to focus on studying instead),” said Anjali.
 
 She did her early schooling from a government primary school. On seeing her dedication, her farmer rented a room in   in Allahabad and got her enrolled in a bigger school in class IX.
 
 Anjali said she has been a meritorious student so she was expecting her name in top 10 or 15 list of scorers. “However, I had not thought of securing the first position this year.”
 
 She wants to become engineer and has already taken admission in a coaching institute in Kota to prepare to get prepare for the entrance test conducted by the Indian Institute of Technology (IITs). Yashasvi, who bagged the second position in UP Board Class X examination by scoring 94.50%, said her farmer father got her enrolled to a ‘better school’ after she stressed on ‘good academic culture’. A resident of Amauli village in Fatehpur, Yashasvi said, “My father Devi Prasad helped a lot while studying. He used to ask me to focus on studying and never asked me to do any daily chore.” The UP Board topper wants to enter the field of defence. “Defence has a lot of opportunities for women. It is my childhood dream to be a part of the Indian Army,” she said.
 
 The third state topper Vinay Kumar Verma, from Mankapur Village in  , scored 94.17% in the UP Board exam. Vinay told   that his father Dhani Ram, a farmer, used to scold him for studying for long hours.
 
