CHENNAI: The joy of getting over the exam fever, with mathematics on the last day, was shortlived for Class X   students. On Wednesday, soon after students emerged cheerfully from exam halls, happy with an “easy” paper, the board announced re-conduct of Class X math and Class XII economics papers due to an alleged leak of questions in Delhi. The new dates along with other details shall be put up on the CBSE website within a week. 

  
  
 
 While several parents argued that when the leak had allegedly occurred in Delhi, it is unfair to students from other regions, who would also have to rewrite the exam, CBSE officials said since the leak was on social media, the extent of the leak could not be known. The board said re-conducting the exam was essential “with the view to uphold the sanctity of the board, examinations, and in the interest of fairness to the students.” Confusion, fear and anger followed with students and parents questioned the veracity of the news and dissapointment at schedules going haywire. “It is exhausting to write an exam all over again. For Class X (non-Sanskrit) students, maths was the last paper and we were already into the holiday mood. We didn’t expect this decision immediately after the exam,” said Avinash, a Class X student from Chennai.
 
 For Class XII students,   entrance is scheduled on April 15, while IIT JEE will be held on April 8 (online mode) and April 15-16 (offline mode). Parents and schools said such leaks and re-exams psychologically affects students, preparing for the upcoming exams and entrance tests. “It is traumatic for students. My son has psychology and sociology exams and both take up time to study, placing an exam in between will eat into that time. And after finishing the exams, there are other entrance tests to focus on. So either way this is very upsetting,” said Divya, a parent. Some parents demanded that college entrance tests should be rescheduled if the re-exam comes in the way of preparations. 
 
 Vacation plans too went awry for some with the announcement of the re-exam.   said it had to call back a few students who had left town immediately after the exam. The school correspondent added that parents and schools have to work together to pacify students and allay their fears about the reexamination. 
 
 
