CHANDIGARH: Taking cognizance of a plea seeking directions to allow greyhound races in Punjab, the   and   high court on Tuesday issued notice to the Union ministry of environment and forests,   and the Punjab state animal husbandry department seeking reply on the issue. 

 The petition, filed by   (Registered) through its representative Bhupinder Singh Grewal, has claimed that such dog races organised in the rural areas of Punjab help in bridging social gaps and differences.
 
 The petitioner board has mainly challenged the Punjab animal husbandry department's November 2013 decision which made obtaining permission from the deputy commissioner or the deputy director (animal husbandry) compulsory before organising dog races.
 
 Although there is no formal ban on dog racing in Punjab, the procedure for obtaining permission to organize these races is very cumbersome, leading to an effective ban. Dog races are held in rural areas without persmission, but there is no record of the number of races being held annually.
 
 Counsel for the petitioner board,   argued that the Punjab government's order regarding prior permission for organising dog races, has been passed on the grounds of assumed and presumed cruelty to the animal.
 
 Such order is without substance and without any consideration towards the relevant facts, attributes and traits of the greyhound dogs. The greyhound dog races are organised under total control environment and it is categorically and specifically taken care that only mentally and physically healthy dogs take part in the race,” she argued.
 
 The plea stated that greyhound races are being organised from time immemorial in Punjab and bring together the rural people from all the walks of life and such events acts as catalyst for the assimilation of different cultures.
 
 “Greyhound racing is an organized, competitive sport in which greyhound dogs are raced around a track. There are two forms of greyhound racing, track racing (normally around an oval track) and coursing. Track racing uses an artificial lure (now based on a windsock) that travels ahead of the dogs on a rail until the greyhounds cross the finish line. In coursing, the dogs chase an artificial lure hence there is no cruelty on any animal,” the petition explained.
 
 The board submitted before the HC that welfare and health of the greyhound dogs is the primary facet in consideration while organising such races. All such races are organised only after providing proper emergency facilities to the dogs in case of any contingency. The matter will now come up for hearing on February 28.
 
 
 
