NEW DELHI:   has decided to   the   of 40 services  . It is learnt that the project was fast-tracked keeping in consideration the disqualification of 20 AAP MLAs, which is likely to lead to bypolls. As this project is aimed at helping out citizens directly, it can help AAP in the elections.

 Residents will soon be able to get driving licence, certificates of caste, domicile, income, registration of marriage, transfer of ownership of vehicles, new water or sewer connection from the comfort of their homes. Currently, people have to stand in long queues at government offices and, at times, have to pay bribes to get their work done.
 
 “It is a very big project. The Centre left no stone unturned to stop it (from being implemented). They also used the LG to get it stopped, but failed,” deputy CM Manish Sisodia told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 The tender floated to hire a private agency for the scheme will open on February 2. The project will be ready for launch before April 1, said a government official.
 
 Initially, there will around 300 police-verified ‘mobile sahayaks’. Their numbers will grow along with the demand for the services. The private agency will hire them and also set up a call centre.
 
 Citizens seeking to avail a particular service will have to make a call and the customer care executive will jot down their basic details. The caller will be asked to keep all necessary documents required at hand. The call centre will then alert a mobile sahayak located closest to the caller’s address, who will call the citizen and fix a meeting at his/her convenience.
 
 The mobile sahayak will verify and scan all the documents and upload it to the websites of the department concerned for processing. Such verification will also make the chances of the application getting rejected negligible. The department will send an SMS to the mobile sahayak and to the citizen when the certificate is ready. The same mobile sahayak will deliver the printed certificate within a specific time.
 
 People will have to pay a small fee to the mobile sahayak through e-wallets or by cash. The exact fee for different services will be decided after the tender bids are opened by the government.
 
 A government official said that, on the advice of LG Anil Baijal, the government is also working on a proposal for setting up internet kiosks for strengthening the online mechanism to avail these services. This can help create jobs for the educated unemployed youths.
 
 The scheme hanged fire for nearly two months after Baijal returned the file to the government for “reconsideration”. It was finally cleared on January 15.
 
 
