GANDHINAGAR: While the Gujarat government has written to the   (NCA) for the release of 1,500 cusecs from Madhya Pradesh to keep the   from drying up, it also asked the   construction advisory committee (SSCAC) and the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) to clear its long-pending dues.

 The Gujarat government at a recent meeting of the SSCAC raised the issue of clearance of the undisputed share and other dues, worth around Rs1,944.77 crore.
 
 A senior officer privy to the development said, “We had raised the issue of these long-pending dues of partner states — Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan — part of the cost-sharing for the Sardar Sarovar project earlier too. We have also requested the NCA. The Sardar Sarovar project is now complete with the installation and closing of radial gates.”
 
 BJP-ruled MP and Rajasthan will both have elections soon, so it remains to be seen how they react to the issue.
 
 M S Dagur, additional chief secretary ( ) of the Narmada department has written to the secretary of the Union ministry of environment forests and climate change (MoEF&CC), requesting that water flow in the Narmada downstream of the Sardar Sarovar dam be maintained, as the river drying is causing ecological, social and economic problems for the region.
 
 Dagur wrote, “To sustain the river ecosystem downstream of a dam, it is imperative to maintain the minimum flow and MoEF&CC, GOI generally recommends that release of minimum environmental flow must mimic the pre-dam flow pattern of a river to sustain aquatic biodiversity together with downstream user needs and accordingly, water withdrawal for power generation is to be regulated. Minimum environmental flow release should be 20% of the average four-month lean period and 20% to 30% of flows during non-lean and non-monsoon periods.”
 
 Dagur further wrote, “It is requested to direct the environment sub- group of the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) to come out with a solution by enhancing the quantity of water to be released downstream and to release at least 1,500 cusecs of water during the current water year i.e., till June 30, 2018 or till such a solution is arrived at. This will certainly help in protecting the downstream.”
 
 Gujarat government is still waiting for a response from the GOI and NCA.
 
