Long after leaving the theatre, a dialogue stays in the mind, in the case of some poignant movies. It even becomes a topic of discussion, which is exactly what has happened in the case of Aashiq Abu’s latest movie Maayanadhi, admired for the way it raises certain contemporary issues in its own subtle way.

 Aparna (Appu), the central character, is a struggling actress who shares a good friendship with Mathan, her ex-boyfriend, who still believes that they can get back together. One day, when she is upbeat after doing well at a movie audition, she invites Mathan home. The duo make love throughout the night at Aparna’s mother’s place. In a near anti-climax to the scene, when Mathan insists that she accompany him to Dubai, she replies, ‘Sex is not a promise’. Mathan retorts, ‘Why are talking like a prostitute, Appu?’ Her mother too uses the P word after seeing Mathan and Appu together at home.
 
 Ashish Thomas, 24, had this question for his sister as they were on their way back home after watching the movie. “I have no idea why such name-calling happens when a woman says ‘sex is not a promise’. If a man says it, he is not called a prostitute. Then, why this stigma on sex?”
 
 Not all think like Ashish, however. Many must have been shocked by the statement, coming from a Malayali woman, perhaps for the first time on screen, while a third section of viewers may perhaps be simply confused.
 
 At a time when women empowerment is the number one topic of debate, Kochi Times joins in on the debate triggered by the statement, ‘Sex is not a promise’.
 
 According to  , Director, Centre for Cultural Studies, University of Kerala, the statement is a positive one but comes with a rider. “It is an extremely liberating statement but it should be interpreted considering who speaks it, when and how. It is OK to state it in an atmosphere of freedom and democratic value where everyone is equal. Our society is not like that and the ground reality is that the society, especially the women, are grounded into a structure that is linked to chastity. It believes in the chastity myths and conjugal sex rows. In such a context, this statement should be placed and dealt with in a very responsible way as it may actually retaliate and become an advantage to patriarchy. There will be people asking back, ‘Didn’t you women say, sex isn’t a promise?’ So it also comes with a rider as we still believe chastity is what matters the most. However, in its ideal essence it is an iconoclastic statement and sex shouldn’t be connected to things like chastity and marriage.”
 
 The scriptwriter of Maayanadhi, Shyam Pushkaran says that the discussion is open and all he can do is explain at the fictional level as the writer. “I wrote it, taking into account the Kerala psyche. The statement may come across as nothing new for those from outside Kerala but here I was just trying to speak from the female perspective. I won’t say that Appu represents the progressive lot. Instead it might be a sentence that she might have picked up from an article she read or from a discussion she heard and which she felt was right at that moment. She was being true, she was happy and she was in a good mood and she had sex,” he says. Mathan, on the other hand, represents the average Malayali man who can’t accept that a woman shouldn’t or wouldn’t have sex just because she is in a mood for it. “That is where the word prostitute came in. Even from her mother. It is a word that is very often used by society to degrade a woman and I don’t think anybody should take it,” he explains.
 
 Putting things in perspective, theatre personality Devendranath Shankaranarayanan reminds us that Kerala was a state where women had the freedom to make the final call in choosing their partners. “The woman had the freedom and right to choose her partner. Unfortunately, we haven’t seen it discussed much in films even though films back then like K G George’s Mattoral had strong female characters,” he says.
 
 He observes that perhaps cinema too underwent a transformation just the way the society did, when it came to its attitude towards women. “Films like Devasuram gave less screen space for female characters even though the characters were strong in their own way. 
 
 Then followed films with women being just sidekicks or eye candy, which had dialogues like ‘Nee verum Pennu’, for almost three decades,” he says.
 
 The current discussion revolving around the statement in the film Mayaanadhi can be considered a positive one as women are trying to assert their rights. “We are seeing a change — from matriarchy to patriarchy and now to something else. When women start affirming that sex is a personal choice, and try to make it a political statement, we should support it,” he adds.
 Writer and feminist   has no doubt that it is nothing but a reaction to patriarchy even though she is not exactly pleased with the portrayal of modern woman in the movie. “Controlling women’s sexuality is the basis of patriarchy as that is how men proclaimed their authority and power in the society. Especially the idea that her kids should only be mine and thus the assets will be only go to my son, not even to the daughter. When such a thought is dominant in the society, it is important to assert that women have a sexual identity. However, it is a thought that has come in feminist circles decades back including in literature. Eve Ensler’s The Vagina Monologues is one example. In Kerala too, the conversations have been happening since years and now it is being heard well. Having constant dialogues and discussion on it is the best way to disrupt the systemic thing,” she says. 
 
 However, Gargi feels that Maayanadhi has tried its best to be politically and commercially correct by making Appu apologise to her mother soon after the statement. “Let this mark the beginning. I insist the filmmakers should portray women guilt-free from the next level. There are many women in the society who are asserting their right and aren’t guilty,” she says.
 
 Actress Kani Kusruti says it is hard to say that Aparna’s dialogue in the film represents the thought of every Malayali woman. “Kerala always had women who affirmed their sexual freedom but at the same time majority of women who are conditioned by patriarchal thoughts will not even dare to think on those lines. But continue to think of sex as ‘exploitation’ and that they are also manipulated by men for sexual needs in return for a promise of marriage. There are some who even think an ‘I Love You’ from the man who loves her is a promise for marriage. So the statement in the film can be a shocker for many, confusion for a few and revelation for others. However, the director has stood by the character and not treated her as bad. The same may eventually happen in the society as well. However, I believe, when relationships are made, there should be a transparency at the centre of it -- whether it is out of love or out of need. And hurt will be inevitable,” she sums up.
 
