Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation has doubled the fine for those found urinating, spitting and littering on the roads. The two-fold increase in the fine became necessary as civic authorities found that people were paying no heed to the restrictions, and polluting the environment. As per the revised fine rules, a civic cop will collect fines between Rs100 to Rs10,000 for such acts. The fine for spitting has been revised from Rs50 to Rs100, while the penalty for open urination has been doubled from Rs100 to Rs200. A senior official from NMC’s sanitation department told TOI the revised fines are being implemented since April 1. The new fine for littering surroundings and disposing garbage on roads is Rs400 for roadside vendors, Rs1,000 for educational institutions and coaching classes, and Rs2,000 for hospitals, pathology laboratories, malls, restaurants, cinema and community halls. Those who tie cattle on footpaths or roads will be fined Rs1,000. The health department has set a new fine of Rs2,000 (on individuals) and Rs10,000 (on builders) for stocking construction material either on road or footpath. A fine of Rs1,000 has also been imposed on automobile workshops operating on roads, footpaths and open areas. The civic cops have been patrolling city limits since December 11, 2017. The civic cops have to watch out in areas like bus stops and railway stations for anyone littering and spitting, apart from committing other civic offences, said the officer. The retired defence personnel appointed as civic cops are doing their job well, said an officer. Despite instances of interference by political parties, especially the ruling party, 7,368 Nagpurians were fined over Rs49.97 lakh in the five months of NMC launching its clean-up nuisance detection squad in December last year. The highest fines, Rs7.82 lakh, were collected from citizens in Ashi Nagar, which includes areas like Jaripatka, Nara, Nari etc, followed by Rs6.59lakh from Laxmi Nagar zone, which includes Laxmi Nagar, Khamla etc Sources said the available manpower in the nuisance detection squad is insufficient. NMC had a sanctioned strength of 87 posts but only 43 personnel, including one squad leader, are working. NMC has also not provided two sets of uniforms to the staffers. If NMC fills vacant posts, the number of cases and cleanliness will increase manifold, said sources.