AURANGABAD: The rise in cases of dummies helping candidates bag government jobs has prompted the   rural police to record   details of the candidates before every test during the on-going   process. 

 Starting from March 12, the recruitment process for filling up 96 vacancies, including 20 posts for Aurangabad rural police, has begun at the police ground here. The posts of 76 prison police are also being filled. 
 
 In all 13,374 candidates made online applications for the posts and following the scrutiny of the forms, 800 have been called for participating in the recruitment process. Out of these candidates, 469 turned up and after further scrutiny, only 394 candidates were short-listed to participate in physical fitness test.
 
 Officers said that this is perhaps for the first time that fingerprints and retina scans are being done during police recruitment process in the state. Also, in an unprecedented move, the Aurangabad rural police have introduced radio frequency identification tags to record ground activities such as racing, long jumps to rule out any human error in the process of recording scores of candidates during the physical tests.
 
 In all, 46 police officers, 208 constables, 21 videographers have been deployed at the CCTV-covered venue to ensure transparency in the entire recruitment process. 
 
 "We appreciate the move to introduce the system. Actually, the use of biometric verification of the candidates will set a precedent in the police recruitment drives across the state. It is expected to set a benchmark in terms of transparency," said Aurangabad range IG  . 
 
 The Aurangabad rural police have recently busted a racket of impersonators, who with the help of compact communication devices, were cracking different government exams for candidates, in lieu of money.
 
 Taking cue from the incident, the Aurangabad rural police came up with the idea. Aurangabad superintendent of police   told TOI, "Biometric verification is the best available option to avoid any kind of cheating or impersonation in the recruitment process."
 
 She added that a look at all impersonation and job-related scams, it has come to the fore that despite taking all efforts to maintain transparency in the recruitment process, some fraudsters still manage to sneak in.
 
 
