KOLKATA: Though they could not win the I-League in their debut season, Neroca FC’s second-place finish could well be the start of a new journey in the hotbed of Indian football, the north-east.

 
 The close gap between winner and runner-up failed to dampen coach Gift Raikhan’s spirits. “It has been an incredible journey. I dedicate the finish to the players, the club and the people of Manipur,” Raikhan said after the 1-1 draw with  . “Our focus was to win today’s game. It didn’t materialize but I’m happy.”
 
 A club in India’s top tier is the biggest change Neroca have brought about in the football scene of Manipur and they proved they are no pushovers by finishing ahead of the big two of Indian football,   and East Bengal. “This was a great opportunity for players from Manipur to play for a club from their own state,” said Raikhin.
 
 Neroca captain and goalkeeper, Lalit Thapa, feels that the club’s show will inspire more teams from the state. “Clubs like Shillong Lajong and   were an inspiration for us. I hope we have been able to encourage more teams from Manipur to qualify for the I-League,” he said.
 
 Together with champions Minerva, Neroca have also proven that even if you do not have big sponsors who pump in money to buy famous foreigners, a proper youth development programme can make a winning combination.
 
 “We didn’t have a big budget, but we had the ambition, said Raikhin. “I chose the players who could understand me. The boys responded and applied themselves throughout the season,” said Raikhn.
 
 Winning the second division I-League in 2016-17 gave Neroca the ticket to the top tier and they kept the core of the team intact, which went a long way in ensuring a seamless journey in I-League. Barring the token foreign signings, they hardly signed any new Indian player.
 
 Experienced India international Gourmanagi Singh, a son of the soil, and Liberian Varney Kallon, made a tight centre-back pair. Neroca conceded the least goals (13) in the league. Despite initial hiccups in the midfield, their all-round play helped them as the league progressed. Experienced Subhas Singh, Basnata Singh and Sushil Singh gave good support to Chidi upfront, while Raikhan used youngsters Pritam Singh and Ronald Singh wisely.
 
