KOLKATA: The Vivekananda Road  , a portion of which had collapsed on March 31, 2016, claiming 27 lives, will have to be pulled down, going by the recommendations of a team of   experts tasked by the state government to decide on the structure’s future. The team has also ruled out constructing a new overpass. 

 Last May, the state government had tasked the panel of experts to decide on the fate of the flyover: should work be continued, or the structure pulled down. The panel’s recommendation, which comes nearly two years after the disastrous collapse, will help the government overcome the raze-or-retain dilemma and start dismantling the construction that has now become a ghastly symbol of the city’s biggest civic disaster in recent memory.
 
 The IIT-Kgp professors who decided the future of the cursed flyover have not used the word “raze”. Sources said the idea of dismantling the structure is a corollary of the team’s findings. Keeping or restoring the flyover is not prudent given the cost involved, the experts have said.
 
 Around Rs 200 crore had already been spent on the flyover project started in 2009 by the Left Front government. “Rebuilding or restoring will be extremely costly and time-taking. It’s best to raze it, the IIT experts feel,” said a   official, who participated in a recent meeting where the findings were shared.
 
 The report unambiguously observes that building another flyover along the tapered and congested stretch is not feasible considering the increasing volume of traffic on Vivekananda Road. The experts will submit their report to the government in the next fortnight.
 
 Locals are happy that the flyover will finally go. “The remains of the flyover always brought back memories of people dying trapped under the debris. I’m glad it’s going to be erased,” said Sushanta De, a resident of Posta.
 
 It was initially felt that the collapsed portion was architecturally faulty. But extensive survey by the premier engineering institute has proved that the entire bridge was poorly designed, said a source. The study was aimed to deduce the load-bearing capacity of the structure. The IIT experts also did a traffic survey and inspected the flyover, taking into account of its entire 2.2km length. “That’s how they found out its inadequacy to cater to the fast-increasing traffic volume,” said an official.
 
 IIT professors Anandapran Gupta, Sreeman Bhattacharya and Swapan Majumdar were part of the fact-finding committee — headed by former chief secretary Basudeb Banerjee — set up to find out the reasons for the collapse. In August 2016, they had submitted a report citing faulty design, poor quality of raw materials and lack of supervision as the cause of collapse of the under-construction flyover.
 
 In the last six months, the same team explored the depths of the structural defects. They took cognizance of a detailed project report by engineering agency   in 2008 that said the flyover would not be able to accommodate traffic beyond 2017. The IIT team surveyed whether the overpass could accommodate Howrah-bound traffic till 2040 and realized the flyover couldn’t be of any use in 2025, let alone 2040. The survey also analyzed possibilities of bottlenecks as vehicles descend at   or on the Howrah Bridge-end, yet to be built. “Then came the part of examining the enhanced load the structure can take till 2040,” the official said.
 
 
