TRICHY: It seems that the construction on proposed road-over-bridge (RoB) across railway lines in  , near  , has hit the ground running, with state   department putting their nose to the grindstone, looking to open the facility for use by June 2018.

 With about 85 per cent of work, including that of a stretch heading towards   road end, completed, the authorities have now turned their attention to acquisition of land for stretches leading to Trichy and Chennai bypass ends. The state had in February 2011 given in-principal approval to establish a four-lane RoB at Periyar Nagar to replace the narrow two-lane bridge which caused trouble to pilgrims with frequent traffic snarl-ups. 
 
 After a long delay, a sum of Rs 47.30 crore was sanctioned in March 2014, but the construction did not take off thanks to the ongoing state assembly elections then. The highways department said that works on the four-lane RoB, including the dismantling of old bridge, kicked off in middle of 2016 and have reached the penultimate stage in March 2018.
 
 “We only have minimal works, such as building roads over decks and approach roads portions, left to be done. The length of the wall present walls need to hiked to 100 metres. We have planned to finish the work on the entire bridge by June 2018,” said an official with highways department.
 
 A total of 48 pillars have been put up by the highways to accommodate 26 decks over the standing pillars. The proposed four-lane bridge will have two sections, each with a couple of lanes of 7.5 m wide to enable free vehicle movements. Among the pending works the land acquisition process is underway to secure close to 15,000 square metres of land to build the approach roads towards the Trichy and Chennai ends of the RoB.
 
 Once the bridge works aimed at merging the road network with Chennai, Trichy, and Kallanai are over, nearly 2.10 lakh people in   and Thiruvanaikaval will benefit. Those in   and Pullmbadi will have any easy, congestion-free ride in Trichy.
 
 
