CHENNAI: Customers asking for diabetic shoes are usually directed to shelves lined by some of the drabbest footwear that look more like contraptions. Students from a city institute have now set out to add some colour to this section.

 Twenty-five students from Central Footwear Training Institute (CTFI) in Guindy, which functions under the Union ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises, have crafted designer footwear for those with  . 
 
 Both type 1 and type 2 diabetes cause damage to blood vessels and peripheral nerves that can result in blood circulation to the legs and feet being cut off, leading to loss of sensation. Therapeutic footwear prevents complications like ulcers and calluses (that can sometimes lead to amputations) in such patients. 
 
 “After heart failure and kidney failure, foot amputation is the most common risk for people with diabetes,” said Dr   of M  , which is collaborating with the institute to manufacture and sell the footwear. 
 
 In 2004, the doctor assessed the impact of therapeutic footwear among 241 diabetes patients who attended the hospital’s foot clinic in the city. The subjects were divided into four groups: One with sandals that had insoles made with microcellular rubber, the second with soft polyurethane foam, the third with molded insoles and the fourth were made to wear their own footwear containing leather board insoles. Over a period of time, patients who used therapeutic footwear showed lower foot pressure. 
 
 For the past 25 years, the hospital has been supplying footwear to its patients. Big footwear manufacturers were reluctant to lap up the initiative as the need was limited to a small section. However, with the prevalence of diabetes on the incline and younger people being diagnosed, doctors said there is a growing demand for diabetic footwear that look good.
 
 Three years ago, Dr Viswanathan approached CFTI for ‘designer shoes’. “We got our faculty to design a few,” said K Murali, director of the institute. Later, students were roped in to craft by hand these footwear, which are lightweight and made of foam and leather, with outer soles that can’t be bent. 
 
 Priced at Rs 1,500, these footwear are available at MV Hospital in   and its branches in Adyar, Velachery, and Koramangala in Bengaluru.
 
 
