NAGPUR: The third day of OTICON, a conference by  , saw sessions which explored the idea of   — study of people’s efficiency in their working environment. Hosted at   auditorium in  , the conference, along with sessions, saw presentation of papers as well as an equal dose of entertainment in the form of short films and a street play.

 Talking on the concept of ‘ergonomics for software professionals’, Pune-based Dr   said, “Sitting in front of a computer for over two hours at a stretch can cause pain in the neck and back. Improper posture while operating several devices and also short distance between the eye and the gadgets, lack of break intervals can be harmful. Our job is to take care of preventive steps,” she said, further talking of biomechanics, posture, which kind of chairs should be used in office and how one should match in a given atmosphere. “Doing work in the right way and following certain laws is the essence of ergonomics,” she added.
 
 Bengaluru-based Dr   presented a lecture on ‘Past, present and future of ergonomics’. A pilot study on replacing the conventional keyboard with a lapboard for desktop computer users was presented by Dr Easther and G Zachariah.
 
 Papers presented covered a range of topics. A paper on paediatrics brought focus on sensory integration therapy and how to deal with autistic kids. Two papers were about handwriting problem in children, and how visual perceptual deficit can affect handwriting legibility, even causing the child to be termed as a slow learner. Another paper discussed culture has an impact on disability — how we look at it and the perception that a disabled person will not be able to do well in life.
 
 Speaking about key ideas that were at the forefront at the conference, organizer Dr Sofiya Azad said, “An occupational therapist always looks at a patient as a whole, not just a particular part,” she said, mentioning session by Swati K who spoke about holistic occupational therapy which involved yoga among other things. Dr Chinchalkar, world renowned hand therapist, spoke on nerve transfers in upper extremity — when the nerves get injured and there is paralysis of the hand. How you can retrain the function of the hand again was shown by Dr Chinchalkar. Driving assessment for disabled and diabetic population, a Canadian concept was also discussed at the event.“ This concept is validated by occupational therapists. Not just physical aspect but also coordination and aspects of reaction time are measured here,” said Azad.
 
 Short films centering around the topics were presented by the students of over five medical colleges. And a street play on the topic ‘Accessibility’ also garnered praise and claps. The conference concluded with a valedictory function that honoured professionals for their contribution.
 
 
