ZIRAKPUR: Bumpy roads, no garbage collection system, nonavailability of sewerage and drainage system, non-functional streetlights and no beautification of the northern areas have plagued the tax payers of the 16 societies of   in  .

 The confederation of resident welfare associations (RWA) in Zirakpur (north) during the Times of India Round Table on Saturday said with the passage of time the list of issues regarding civic amenities has increased manifold but the authorities and the elected ward councillor have not taken any step to resolve the said issues.
 
 The issue of the lack of a proper garbage collection system in the area was raised due to which the residents depends on the mercy of privately hired sweepers, who are usually clueless about where to dump the garbage.
 
 Chairman of the confederation P K Sharma said even after the formation of municipal council in the area, the residents are still required to run from pillar to post to get their grievances redresssed as there is no demarcation available about the powers and responsibility of the council.
 
 Another serious issue which was raised during the discussion was non-availability of proper sewerage system and drainage in the area. Executive member of the confederation   said before every monsoon they approach the authorities to get the existing sewerage system and drainage cleaned hoping for some relief from water logging .
 
 Besides this, traffic chaos because of the absence of service lane in front of various societies was yet another issue raised by the residents in the meeting. Joint secretary of confederation Chain   said the residents are in a fix regarding whom to approach to resolve the issues of constructing service lane as there are societies which have exits on national highway.
 
 Absence of police surveillance in the area has given a rise to anti-social elements, who fearlessly roam on the streets. Memeber of Women Cell of the confederation   said they receive several complaints from the women of various societies regarding stalking and eve-teasing.
 
