KOLKATA: The state’s assertions in Calcutta high court of an organised racket arm-twisting hospitals to forgo bills only buttresses what was known for long. Buckling under the threat of ransack and allegations of medical negligence, many hospitals often concede to unfair demands even at the cost of losing money. Five of the leading private hospitals in Kolkata claim to have lost at least Rs 10 crore over the last one year.

 State lawyer  , arguing against a writ petition filed by   alleging police overreach after implicating his father   in “baseless” charges, claimed Rakesh was part of a racket extorting money from hospitals. Justice   directed the state to file a report on it by March 7. Subham’s lawyer   denied Rakesh was involved in any such past cases. The arguments, however, brought to fore the problem that has affected nearly all big private hospitals in city.
 
 Sources said a few key players are flexing their muscles in these hospitals. They have their men in the hospital payroll. Their task is to reach out to aggrieved patients and broker a meeting between them and the racketeers. If the racketeers succeed in browbeating the hospitals in accepting less bills, they charge a 5-10% commission on the bill waived. A south Kolkata hospital, which faced repeated ransacks recently, alleged that there’s an office where ‘aggrieved’ patient parties seek help from a political leader notorious for leading such attacks.
 
 “Since February 2017, we have lost more than Rs 1 crore in bill payments. After cases of violence, we have decided not to strongly counter patient parties’ demands, but to settle things amicably by accepting whatever they are willing to pay,” said ahospital spokesperson.
 
 AMRI Hospitals said they have around Rs 2 crore in a year. “It has become the practice to walk away by paying less. We are hesitant to press for full payments. There are some genuine cases but a substantial number is merely taking advantage of the situation,” said Rupak Barua, CEO of AMRI Hospitals.
 
 The south Kolkata hospital said it has foregone Rs 20 lakh in the last two months. “We now draw up a list of sensitive cases and choose to accept whatever they are ready to pay. The result has been huge losses but we consider that better than being physical abuse and ransack,” the spokesperson added.
 
 Another hospital said it has been losing Rs 10 lakh every month. “Nothing has changed with the setting up of the health panel. It has only emboldened unscrupulous patient parties and made us more defensive. We have been forced to give in to their arm-twisting tactics,” said an official of the hospital.
 
