GURUGRAM: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) will present its maiden   in its second meeting on April 12, which will be chaired by chief minister Manohar Lal  .

 According to officials, the budget for financial year 2018-19 is being prepared on the basis of anticipated   work and carry-forward infrastructure work. The officials said the ongoing infrastructure works for which tenders have been issued by Huda will be completed by Huda in 2018 and transferred to GMDA, whereas all new infrastructure work will be implemented by GMDA. This is to ensure there is no discontinuity in the existing contracts awarded by Huda, which could lead to disruption in implementation.
 
 The largest chunk of the 2018-19 GMDA budget comes from a corpus of Rs 500 crore provided by MCG. There are a few other small contributions from other sources. Of this, Rs 25 crore has been set aside as GMDA’s equity contribution towards the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL). The balance amount of Rs 475 crore is available with GMDA for further infrastructure development.
 
 From this, GMDA estimates an expenditure of Rs 256 crore on infrastru-cture development, primarily on improving the accessibility of junctions at Atul Kataria Chowk, Mahavir Chowk, Agrasen Chowk near Civil Hospital in Old Gurugram, and the one at Huda City Centre metro station, as well as converting the connector from Umang Bharadwaj Chowk to Dwarka Expressway (NPR) into a six-lane road.
 
 To improve water supply and sewerage, a provision of Rs 84.45 crore has been made in this budget. Apart from these, Rs 50 crore has been set aside for Smart City proposals, which include projects for city-wide centrally-controlled CCTV surveillance and traffic monitoring, establishment of an integrated command and control centre, city-wide public WiFi and ‘smart’ water management systems.
 
 As far as mobility is concerned, the budget has a provision of Rs 10 crore for construction of foot-over bridges and skywalks at certain locations. Preliminary planning for a skywalk on Old Delhi road has been initiated. Additionally, Rs 42 crore has been kept for building infrastructure for the city bus service.
 
 A sum of Rs 25 crore has been earmarked for Shri Sheetla Mata Medical College, proposed to be established in Sector 102 at Kherki Majra. A sum of Rs 10 crore has been kept for preliminary expenses to establish a multi-specialty hospital in Sector 67 on the PPP-mode.
 
 
