NEW DELHI: Parents of badminton stars Saina Nehwal and PV Sindhu will travel to the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games (CWG) as part of the official contingent. Their names figured in the 325-member contingent list that included 221 athletes, which the government cleared on Monday.

 
 
 
 However, both Saina’s father   and Sindhu’s mother Vijaya Pusarla, will accompany the contingent at “no cost to the government” as the   refused to bear their expenses on public money. Both were named by the Badminton Association of India (BAI) as extra officials in the contingent with “no official role assigned to them”. The BAI will bear the cost outside of the funds allocated by the ministry for the Annual Training and Competition Calendar (ACTC) to the national sports federations (NSFs).
 
 
 
 The government has decided to bear the cost of 54 coaches, 16 doctors and physiotherapists, 19 other officials and 221 athletes. However, the count of athletes will drop to 219 following long jumper M Sreeshankar’s decision to undergo surgery to remove appendix and paddler Soumyajit Ghosh’s provisional suspension by the table tennis federation following rape allegations. However, Ghosh’s name still figured in the ministry list.
 
 Apart from the shuttlers’ parents, the trip of 13 other officials/non-athletes have been cleared by the ministry at no cost to the government. The seven managers, who are part of the contingent, have also been cleared at no cost to the government.
 
 Also, the ministry struck off the names of chief medical officer Arun Mendiratta and physiotherapist Hema Valecha’s names from the final list. The ministry also decided to retain Indian pistol and rifle team’s high performance director, Ronak Pandit in the contingent.
 
 In the ministry-cleared list, no gymnastics coach or official is accompanying the seven-member squad. But, IOA’s website mentions Ashok Kumar Mishra, Minara Begum and   as accompanying the gymnasts.
 
 The ministry, while finalising the contingent, has mentioned two contentious points. First, it has asked the IOA, SAI, Nada and concerned NSFs to take appropriate measures for conducting the dope tests. International Olympic Committee (IOC) doesn’t allow sample collection of the participants ahead of their travel.
 
 Also, the ministry has indirectly cast aspersions on its own athletes and officials by stating that “in view of the disappearances of some officials/ sportspersons in the foreign countries in the past, the ministry is of the view that the backgrounds/antecedents of the members/officials may be checked properly.
 
