PANAJI: Over 50% leases are likely to resume   operations by next week as the consent to operate is issued to almost all the leases by the Goa state pollution control board (GSPCB). The Supreme Court has capped iron ore extraction in the state to 20MMT per annum.

 A senior officer of the   department said 12 mining leases were operational in the state and around 7MMT iron ore has been extracted in the state during the current mining season. The state government has renewed 89 mining leases which is equivalent to 55 mines. The GSPCB has issued consent to operate to 33 mines.
 
 The mining industry in Goa, which is reeling from a global meltdown in iron ore prices, had approached the Centre to remove the export duty on iron ore.
 
  Ore of up to 60 grade attracts an export duty of 30% and export duty on iron ore above 58 grade is 30%.
 
 Secretary of Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association (GMOEA), Glen Kalavampara told TOI, “As consents are being issued, the applicants would be in a position to commence operations in a sustainable manner.”
 
 The GSPCB has asked the mining companies to submit details of iron ore extracted and the overburden generated in the month by 10th of every suceeding month. Mining companies have been directed to facilitate the board staff with collection of samples of effluent air emissions and hazardous waste.
 
 Board said mining firms should manage the daily trips in a staggered manner in consultation with the directorate of mines and geology so that traffic congestion is avoided at major junctions. The mining activities shall be strictly in accordance to the plan approved by the  .
 
 “The mines having part forest and part non-forest areas and have not obtained forest clearance, consent to operate should be limited to non-forest areas,” the board said. “Consent does not entitle the party to commence activities until and unless all the other permissions as required under the relevant statutes are obtained by the party and this consent to operate is confined to matters arising out of Air Act and Water Act only,” it said.
 
 Board has directed the mining companies to inform it of any accident or discharge of any poisonous or polluting matter into water, on land or air, such that it could lead to pollution.
 
 
