MUMBAI: A TOI report on a   internal committee allowing three contractors to bid again for works despite facing road scam FIRs made municipal commissioner Ajoy   come down heavily on the officials concerned on Friday. 

 Mehta stayed the committee order and called it one that had been passed “without proper application of mind”.
 
 After giving six contractors a hearing, the panel had decided to “demote” three instead of blacklisting them, meaning they could bid for works up to Rs 7.5 crore.
 
 The officer who passed the order was sent on forced leave.
 
 “The order was not brought to my notice,” Mehta said. “Such a move was unacceptable. With civic engineers suspended and in jail, police cases lodged and probe underway, allowing the contractors involved in the scam to bid again cannot be tolerated.”
 
 TOI on Friday reported that the BMC internal committee had decided to merely demote M/s   and Co, M/s   and   as it concluded that the quantum of losses caused by these firms in the road scam was significantly lower than that caused by the other three.
 
 Before the scam, the contractors could bid for works of any amount.
 
 Mehta sought a report to be submitted by to him by the road department director immediately; a confidential report was submitted to him in the morning explaining the status. After perusing it, Mehta passed some hard-hitting orders.
 
 The report, a copy of which is with the TOI, said: “The impact of the order passed by the deputy municipal commissioner (environment) will be that these same contractors would be back again to execute works of the MCGM... Hence, it would only be proper that the contractors involved in the phase I and II remain suspended.”
 
 It also said that in view of the seriousness of the issue, the deputy municipal commissioner (environment) should be forthwith asked to proceed on leave and an inquiry should be conducted against the official by the additional municipal commissioner (eastern suburbs).
 
 Citizen activists said that such a stern move was much needed. “The immediate action taken by the civic chief is laudable. Such attempts to resist action against errant contractors need to be nipped in the bud,” G R  , an activist from Sion.
 
 Samajwadi Party leader in the BMC Rais Shaikh said there were many attempts made to bring back tainted contractors and such strict actions were necessary.
 
 
