It is a concept that he had thought of a year and a half ago. Call it fate or a well-thought of strategy, but   has chosen to execute the same soon after the   finale. Titled Aa  , the film will star BB contestants and Dayal’s favourites   and  . An emotional thriller which has been adapted from a play written by Mohan Habbu, the film will go on the floors on March 5. 
So how did all of it come together in the first place? “Like I said, this was an idea I had thought of a while ago. While in the house, we used to have lengthy discussions and during the course of one such conversation, we were talking about the work we were doing and our future plans. I spoke of this story and told my co-contestants that I'd be happy if they starred in it when I make it into a film. They, too said it’d be good if we worked together. It was informally agreed upon that we’d all do this film,” shares Dayal.
  Soon after his exit in the third week, the director got working on Aa Karala Rathri and readied a bound script. “The screenplay was written last year, so I wrote the dialogues in the weeks that followed after my elimination. Once the finale was wrapped, I made a formal announcement. Of course, this was only once I got the consent from all of them,” adds Dayal. 
 A film that is announced soon after   concluded that also stars its contestants — sounds like the perfect marketing strategy. “I’d agree to that. It made perfect sense to me announce it after the finale because everyone is still in the Bigg Boss hangover. The hype is still on, so it was just the right time to make my plans known as was the idea to rope in my co-contestants from the show. Having said that,   and   are extremely close to me and I’d love to work with them. But let me also add that I’m someone who relies on the content of my film. Had I relied on marketing alone, I wouldn’t be working with   for the fourth time. Of course, he's a talented guy but when it comes to saleability, he’s yet to make a major impact. I work with him because he has such great acting skills. This is how it is with all my films. My movies may have flopped and people may also associate me with gimmicks, but I'd like to point out that the plot of all my films are equally engaging. Marketing tricks will only take your films to one point; beyond that it has to be the content which I regularly provide in my films,” he concurs.
 JK, says Dayal, impressed him with his even-tempered nature on the show while Anupama made an impact on him with her caring nature. “I decided then and there that these two are people I’d like to be associated with the rest of my life and this film is a step in that direction,” states the director. 
 In the past seasons, many contestants and winners have made major announcements when it comes to their careers but few have been able to keep up to these commitments. Many of these projects have failed to see the light of the day. Is   optimistic about taking off with this film? “I’m aware of such instances. But these were made by folks who used the show as a platform to infuse life into their career. I don’t need to do that. Popularity yes, it has definitely fetched me. If 10 folks knew me earlier, now a 1,000 know Dayal. But will that bring them to the theatres to watch my films? There lies the challenge. This is where what I showcase in my movies matters,” avers Dayal. Finally, what are the life lessons he’s learnt from his stint on Bigg Boss? “That we should never preach to others and try to correct them. Keep to yourself and be straight forward,” concludes Dayal. 
 
 
 — Madhu Daithota
 
