PATNA:   president   on Monday replaced C P Joshi with   as incharge of the party affairs in Bihar. 

 “I have been assigned responsibility to work as the AICC incharge of Bihar. I look forward to strengthening the Congress in Bihar and work with anti-BJP forces. Thank you Rahul Gandhi Ji for your faith in me,” Gohil, a former Gujarat CLP leader, tweeted.
 
 The removal of Joshi, once considered close to Rahul, is being seen as the fallout of the four party MLCs led by former Bihar Congress chief Ashok Kumar Choudhary joining the JD(U) led by Nitish Kumar and also the party’s poor performance in the recent assembly elections as he was in charge of seven northeastern states as well as three other states/UT, including West Bengal, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Bihar. 
 
 Bihar Congress officiating president Kaukab Quadri claimed it was a routine process. “Joshi ji served as in charge of Bihar for over four years and he was ought to be relieved. Besides, Rahul ji is revamping the party set up by giving opportunity to young leaders like Gohil,” Quadri told TOI.
 
 Congress MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan also welcomed Gohil’s appointment.
 
 “Rahul ji had said at the national party convention recently that several changes would be made over the next few weeks.   is a firebrand leader,” Khan said. 
 
 Sources said Rahul appointed youth leader Rajeev Satav as the AICC in charge of Gujarat and former Union minister Jitendra Singh as the in charge of Odisha, replacing B K Hariprasad on Friday.
 
 Choudhury, who quit the party on February 28, had targeted Joshi in his parting diatribe. “The Congress decision is quite late. Joshi worked on his whims and fancies. He never stayed in Bihar and not even sought a better deal for the party during the talks for Grand Alliance before the 2015 state assembly elections,” Choudhary told TOI.
 
 Party insiders said Joshi started losing his clout after the collapse of the grand alliance government in Bihar in July last year. “Joshi took all the bad decisions for the party in Bihar. Gohil is likely to be a much better person for Bihar Congress,” another Congress MLA said.
 
 
