Madurai: Confirming the life sentence awarded to a person in a murder case, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday directed the state government to create awareness about the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 under which senior citizens could withdraw wills they wrote and write any number of them.

 According to the prosecution, Bose Raj had properties at Devaram village in Theni district. He parted ways with his wife about 25 years ago while his son was working elsewhere. 
 
 Hence, he was forced to live with one Renganathan and his wife Alagammal. He later executed a will on March 22, 2010 in favour of Renganathan. Accordingly, he would enjoy his property till his life time, after which it would go to the latter.
 
 However, in order to immediately secure the title to the property, the prosecution contended, the couple with the assistance of Bose Raj’s brother Amirtharaj killed him. 
 
 To escape from the clutches of law, they informed the Theni medical college hospital on July 30, 2012 that he had a natural death and took his body there. When they arranged to dispose of the body, Raj’s wife lodged a complaint with the Devaram police which after inquiry found that he had died of “penile injury”.
 
 The principal district judge, Theni had on September 11, 2017 awarded life sentence to Renganathan and three years jail to his wife Alagammal and cousin brother of the deceased, Amirtharaj. Challenging it, the trio preferred appeal. 
 
 The division bench of justices S Vimala and T Krishnavalli which heard the same said that the facts and circumstances proved by the prosecution only pointed to the first accused while the participation of his wife as well as third accused was not conclusively established.
 
 Justice S Vimala said, “Here is the case where the deceased (Bose Raj), while planning to protect his estate has failed to protect his life. This incident perhaps would not have taken place if the deceased had known that he is entitled to write any number of Wills till his death by revoking the previous Wills and that the Will itself would come into operation only after his death” .
 
 
