HYDERABAD: The wait of   residents for   seems to be over with the state government deciding to go ahead with its construction in that part of the city.

 The government is set to write a letter to L&T   Rail Hyderabad to take up work at the earliest.
 
 The decision was taken at a recent review meeting held by municipal minister KT Rama Rao. The minister asked the   (HMRL) authorities to begin work as per the original alignment on the six km Metro stretch in the Old City.
 
 The minister reportedly discussed an alternative plan if project concessionaire L&T does not come forward to take up the work due to land acquisition and viability issues.
 
 “If the L&T does not show interest, the minister asked authorities to explore the possibility of state government taking it up on its own with external funds,” a highly placed source in the government said.
 
 
 
 
 The Old City route falls under Corridor II of the project that stretches from Jubilee Bus Station to Falaknuma. The government proposed to build 16 km Metro route from JBS to Falaknuma via Dar ul Shifa, Purani Haveli, Mir Alam Mandi, Moghalpura, Hari Bowli, Shalibanda and Falaknuma in Old City.
 
 However, since about 1,100 properties are likely to be affected, the MIM opposed the alignment in 2013 and suggested changes in route alignment via the Musi river, high court, City College, Hussaini Alam, Kalapathar and Bahadurpura. The project developer, L&T, was asked to study the alignment proposed by MIM and submit a report. L&T said the new alignment was not feasible financially, would increase the distance by two kilometres and that there were also environmental issues since the alternative route passes along the Musi. Since then, no decision was taken on Metro rail works in the Old City.
 
 Of the 72 km Metro Rail project, L&T has started the work in July 2012 and the construction activity is going on at brisk pace on 66 km, leaving out the six km stretch in the Old City. While 30 km of Metro rail stretch between Nagole and Miyapur was thrown open to public on November 28 last year, work on other stretches such as Ameerpet to Hi-Tec City, LB Nagar to Ameerpet is going on at brisk pace.
 
 
