NEW DELHI: The much-delayed   Bridge will soon be open to public. Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC), which is constructing the bridge, plans to start the trial run by mid-May. “The construction work is 95% complete and we are planning to start the trial run from mid-May,” said Shishir Bansal, chief project manager.

 Initially, only two-wheelers would be allowed, and after two months, four-wheelers would also gain access. DTTDC officials said the   would be suspended on cables. The load on them, which are currently 45% stressed, would gradually increase. “Once the cables are 100% stressed, we will start movement of four-wheelers and heavy vehicles,” said an official. 
 
 The bridge would help ease traffic movement between Ring Road and northeast Delhi. Residents of northeast Delhi have been at the receiving end due to the delay in the project—the initial   for which was December 2013.
 
 The existing Wazirabad Bridge, which is also in a bad shape, is the main access between northeast and north Delhi. The two lane bridge cannot take the increase traffic load and suffers massive traffic jam through the day. People travelling from Timarpur, ISBT, etc., to Khajuri Khas and neighbouring areas are the most affected.
 
 At a meeting with Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri in December 2017, area MP Manoj Tiwari had raised the issue and proposed widening of the bridge. With construction work nearing completion, all the problems would be addressed soon. 
 
 DTTDC officials said, of the 19 pair of cables that would hold the main structure, nine have been installed. The pylon, which would be 154m high, 121m, has already been constructed.
 
 Conceived in 2010 by the then Congress government, the project got delayed due to financial reason. Last year, the AAP government finalised the revised cost at Rs 1,594 crore. PWD, which had sanctioned the project, had raised the issue of cost escalation. Officials had blamed DTTDC for poor planning and mismanagement resulting in delay.
 
 
