PUNE: The   State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education will send an exam monitoring squad comprising an officer and two employees of the education department to   following the complaint of alleged strip-searching of girls appearing for the Higher Secondary Certificate examination at the institution.

 Shakuntala Kale, the chairperson of Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education, said, “We have ordered a three-member squad of the education department to sit at the centre for the rest of the examinations. We have also sent a letter to all divisional offices to ensure no incidents harming students occurred.”
 
 The   management had requested the state board to take over the responsibility of conducting the remaining two examinations after the complaint was lodged. But the board refused it.
 
 The MIT authorities, in a news conference held on Monday, claimed that the state board’s initial report had given a clean chit to them. But the board officials denied this and said that its officials were yet to interview the girls who had complained about the alleged harassment to the Loni-Kalbhor police.
 
 Kale said, “The inquiry with MIT officials is over. Now, we will talk to the aggrieved students and only then a final report will be prepared. In the meantime, the police are investigating the matter.”
 
 The two accused women staffers present at the MIT’s news conference claimed that at no time were the students told to take off their clothes. “In 15 minutes, about 80 students were frisked. It is not possible to strip-search so many students,” the duo said.
 
 Swati Karad, the executive director of  , said, “Apart from these two staffers, there were two women home guards in the inspection room and other women teachers. It (the strip-search complaint) is an attempt by parents to malign the institute because we were strictly against any form of cheating,” said Karad.
 
 The MIT management officials claimed that they had written a letter to the state board about the problems the centre faced in terms of parents pressurizing the management to allow their children to cheat. But the state board officials denied receiving any such mail. The MIT management also stressed that cheating during board exams was rampant in rural Maharashtra despite all measures.
 
 Prithviraj Kapoor Memorial High School is on the top of the list of most sensitive schools. “There were too many complaints about the school. Hence, we changed the exam centre of the commerce to MIT. Now, it has the science centre because of lack of space in nearby schools,” said B K Dahiphale, the secretary of the Pune division of the board.
 
 
