SHIMLA: Intensifying its probe in the   gang rape and murder case ahead of the hearing in Himachal Pradesh high court, the CBI took the key accused, arrested on April 14, to Shimla forest area where the body of minor girl was found on July 6 last year.

 In the previous hearing, the high court had expressed its displeasure over the CBI’s failure to crack the case.
 
 On Monday, a heavy police force was deployed outside the CBI office in Shimla. The CBI team took the accused, with covered face, to the crime spot under tight security arrangements. The accused was also taken to another spot near a temple for verification. The forensic team also accompanied the investigating agency.
 
 Sources said the accused was brought to Shimla from Delhi on Sunday and his medical examination conducted at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital. The CBI has so far not disclosed the identity of the accused, but sources said he belonged to Mandi district and worked as a wood cutter.
 
 Before the arrival of the CBI team, police personnel took over the forest area and did not let the local people meet them. After returning to Shimla, the accused was straightaway taken to CBI office where he was being questioned.
 
 The next date of hearing is April 25.
 
 On March 29, CBI counsel Anshul Bansal had said the investigating agency would produce the real accused involved in the gruesome incident before the court by April 25. This announcement was made after the CBI had received specific leads in the case.
 
 A division bench of acting Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sandeep Sharma on March 28 had said that even eight months after taking over the investigation, the agency was clueless about the whereabouts of people involved in the heinous crime.
 
 “Are we to understand that officers of CBI are not competent enough to unearth the crime, of such a nature, within past eight months? After all, as we understand, it is not a case of destruction of evidence. It is also not that investigation is to be conducted in a foreign land/off shore,” the court had observed.
 
 On July 6, 2017, the body of a minor Class X girl was found in forest of Kotkhai area. Public outburst later resulted in violent protest demonstration especially after the custodial killing of one of the arrested “accused”.
 
 On the direction of the high court, the CBI had registered the case on July 22 last year and taken over the investigation. The CBI had even announced a reward of Rs 10 lakh to anyone who provides credible information resulting in arrest of real accused in the case.
 
 
