NEW DELHI: Launching a counter offensive against the   and its president  ,   on Sunday mocked the Gandhi scion for his barbs at the ruling party and dismissed his speech at the AICC plenary as “rhetoric of a loser”.

 
 Reacting to Rahul’s speech where he launched personalised attacks on PM  , BJP chief   and finance minister  , defence minister   said, “Comments by the Congress president sound like the rhetoric of a loser, devoid of substance.”
 
 Taking on Rahul for his attempt to link Modi with two fugitives who share a surname with the PM, Sitharaman termed it as “a fake narrative.”
 
 “Mr Gandhi who himself is out on bail in the National Herald case shares a surname with the father of the nation, is that a reflection on the Mahatma?” Sitharaman asked.
 
 She hit out at the Congress chief for his attack on Shah, saying it was astonishing that the Congress president chose to make allegations against the BJP chief even though he had been cleared by the court. “Rahul Gandhi himself is out on bail in the Herald case, whereas our party president has been cleared by court,” she said.
 
 Sitharaman emphasised Congress’s defeats and contrasted it with what she called BJP’s upward trajectory. She also mocked Rahul for likening Congress to Pandavas who fought for truth. “A party that challenged the existence of Sri Ram could not be talking about the Mahabharat,” she said and blamed the opposition party for using Hindu symbols for electoral gains. “Who is he (Rahul Gandhi) to decide on who are the Kauravas and who are the Pandavas.. 
 
 it is the people who will make this decision,” she said. “I have never heard of a Congress priest and a BJP priest, but Rahul Gandhi has narrated a whole story on that, just a way to mock Hindus and Hinduism,” she added.
 
 Earlier in the day, Rahul had narrated a story about his meetings and conversations with a priest aligned with Congress and another who belonged to the BJP to claim that the former respected all religions while the latter was rigid, transactional and made false promises to extract benefits.
 
 Sitharaman also criticised the Congress for questioning the use of EVMs for elections and supporting a return to the ballot papers. “Congress is anti-technology since it does not want transparency in the system.
 
 At a time when technology is used to make systems more efficient and transparent, Congress is talking about discarding it. Even in the case of direct benefit transfers, they are opposing technology usage through Aadhaar card etc, since Congress benefits from pilferage,” she said.
 
 HRD minister Prakash Javadekar said Rahul should apologise for his party’s misdeeds first and then attack Modi.
 
