BHOPAL: There’s some brilliant news for theatre lovers. As part of the International Theatre Festival, the capital city has been chosen as one of the 17 venues in the country that will host the 8th edition of Theatre Olympics, 2018. 

 Performances and workshops will begin in the City of Lakes from Wednesday onwards. The event has been organised by the   (NSD) with the support of Union ministry of culture.
 
 As part of the grand festival, 27 plays in a span of 14 days will be staged here. Two venues — the prestigious multi-art centre   and   have been chosen for the upcoming performances.
 
 Principal secretary of the culture department Manoj Shrivastava addressed the media stating that   will be home to artistes of national as well as international repute in the coming days and theatre lovers will have the time of their lives.
 
 “It is an extremely proud moment for Bhopal as we will host the third largest number of plays in the country after Delhi and Mumbai. This is mainly because of the prevailing theatre culture that exists in Bhopal since the time BV Karant and Habib Tanveer left their mark here. We look forward to hosting the event and are sure that once the artistes see our hospitality, they will come here again for more performances.” said Shrivastava.
 
 The 27 plays will include seven international plays from France, Italy, Australia, Nepal, Spain and Israel. The audience will also be able to interact with the directors of the plays after each performance. A seminar titled ‘Natyashashtra’ will be organised as part of the event and will be presided over by Kamlesh Dutt Tripathi on March 23. A workshop for budding artistes and theatre lovers will also be held with noted theatre personalities.
 
 Theatre Olympics began in Greece in the year 1995. This 8th edition of the event commenced at the   in Delhi on February 17 with the theme ‘Flag of Friendship’. A total of 450 plays, 600 poorvrang performances and 200 youth based performances will be held in the 17 cities in a span of 51 days. The plays that will be staged have been selected by a seven-member committee from different countries.
 
 
