CHENNAI: The first time they met, race relations expert   and Grand Dragon of the Klu Klux Klan (KKK) in  , Roger Kelly, almost pounced at each other in reflex, after they mistook the noise of soda cans rasping down a bucket of ice to be the sound of a gun they assumed the other was loading for an abrupt attack. Davis, who had just hopped on an angry quest to find answers to the rampant hatred faced by the black community in the  , had invited Kelly, then a leader of the white supremacist clan, to interview him for his book ‘Klan-destine Relationships’.

 Up until that moment, the air at Davis’ conference room had hung heavy; he had asked his secretary, a white woman call upon Kelly for the interview, consciously keeping under wraps his own identity as a black man. “When we realised what had caused the noise, we broke into our heartiest and most involuntary laughter. Technically, we were enemies, but what we were laughing at was our own ignorance, and at what a pervasive climate of fear had done to the both of us right then,” recalls Davis.
 
 The activist and popular blues musician was in town to talk on ‘Harmony and Inclusion in Pluralistic Societies’, a discussion put together by the Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali and the   at   on Tuesday.
 
 “I have been attacked and mistreated for my skin colour since I was a child. It led me to this raging question, ‘How can you hate me when you don’t even know me?’ When all the books I could get my hands on failed to provide the answer, I decided to ask someone who was part of the KKK,” says Davis.
 
 After many such encounters slowly transformed into friendship, Davis and Kelly would much later bond over another set of orange soda cans, at the end of many KKK rallies and blues gigs they took turns to attend for each other. Over the last three decades, Davis has spent his time and energy engaging in dialogue with the KKK, in an attempt to peacefully challenge their racist ideology and find common ground. Reports have revealed that these dialogues have led to some of the white radicals giving up their robes and hoods – uniforms of the KKK membership – the most prominent, being Kelly, who gifted these to Davis.
 
 “I didn’t vote for Trump,” says Davis, “but I do believe his coming to power has done its own bit of good. People are coming out to protest against issues they so far didn’t talk about – sexual abuse, gun control, racism – because a bunch of crazies are out propagating them. We engage students, youth to stand up against these things. That’s how they can find resolution.”
 
 
