NAGPUR: Two female heart patients with yellow ration cards were recently operated free of cost at KG Deshpande Memorial Centre, Gokulpeth, as part of a two-day workshop on minimally invasive cardiac surgery ( ). It involves better cosmetic scars and shorter hospitalization as compared to the conventional procedure.

 Both in the forties, one patient underwent surgery for congenital sceptal defect, commonly called as VSD and another, a mitral valve replacement. “These two are common procedures in cardiac surgery which can easily be practised through minimal invasion as not much instrumentalization is required,” said Dr  , who headed the workshop. 
 
 “The routine perception of a cardiac surgery is a big scar in the front of the chest. Unfortunately, it does not have a good healing pattern and can sometimes be disturbing for patients. It is particularly unpleasant for unmarried females and males,” Dr Deshpande added. 
 
 Taking cosmetic principles of surgery into account, MICS involves doing surgery from the lateral side with a horizontal skin incision in which the bone is not cut. “Rather, we go between the ribs. The scar is cosmetic, it is hidden in clothes and cardiac surgery can still be done with the same ease and safety,” said Dr Deshpande, adding, he has been practising MICS since the past five years. 
 
 These tubes have to be inserted from the groin, and not from the centre. The patient should meet basic levels of fitness: He/she should not be obese and the groin vessels should be of decent size.
 
 It is a slightly expensive procedure as the instrumentation cost and the operation time is a little more. But the hospital stay is reduced to about four days as opposed to the regular admission of about eight days. The surgery takes over five hours and the recovery period is of one month which otherwise would take three months. 
 
 “Five years ago, when I did a minimally invasive cardiac surgery, it took me eight hours. Now, we have come down to five and a half hours,” he said, adding, 78 cases were done through MICS in the past five years. 
 
 Dr Deshpande said the hospital is one of the early beginners in minimally invasive cardiac surgery, doing small incision coronary artery bypass grafting, aortic valve replacement, mitral valve replacement and surgical closure of atrial septal defect. 
 
 The workshop was organized in association with   ( ) and the Vidarbha chapter of Cardiological Society of India.
 
 ends
 
 
