CHANDIGARH: For the first time, the electricity department here has proposed a power tariff plan for electric vehicle charging stations, which the   administration plans to set up in different parts across the city. The proposed tariff plan needs approval of the   (JERC).

 
 The proposed rates are higher than the prevailing charges in other categories, which include domestic, commercial, small supply, medium and large supply. The department mulls charging Rs 6.20 per unit in the slab of 0-150 units; Rs 6.45 and Rs 6.75 per unit in 151-400 units and above 400 units, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 The Central government has framed a National Electric Mobility Mission Plan, which aims at promoting hybrid and electric vehicles in the country.
 
 
 The UT administration is working on promoting hybrid and electric vehicles and installing charging stations. A team of transport department had a few months ago visited Nagpur to study charging stations’ set up in different parts of the city. Nagpur was the first city in the country to have in place electric vehicle charging stations.
 
 
 Chandigarh has the highest density of vehicles in India with around 12 lakh registered vehicles, including both two-wheelers and four-wheelers. The number of vehicles per house on a average is two and has led to a sharp deterioration in quality of air.
 
 
 Data compiled by the   ( ) in last few years show that the level of repairable suspended particulate matter (RSPM) has been recorded above the permissible limits — 100 microgram per cubic metre.
 
 
 To cut down level of pollution, Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will induct electric buses in its fleet. The ministry of urban development has given a green light to CTU to purchase 20 buses in the first phase. One bus will cost around Rs 5 crore and the Central government has agreed to fund 60% of the cost of these electric buses. At present, around 3,000 e-rickshaws are plying in the city.
 
 
 UT superintending engineer MP Singh said that the department would supply power to electric vehicle charging stations as per the proposed tariff at locations approved by the UT administration.
 
