CHENNAI: In what could be a big leap in dairy development in the state, the   cooperative milk producers' federation, popularly known as  , will soon fly its ultra-heat treated (UHT) milk and milk products to 15 countries, mostly dominated by Indian diaspora, especially Tamil population. The decision comes after the agency's success in Singapore. At least two containers per month are being exported to Singapore. 

 
 "We will be exporting milk and milk products by this year end to  , the UK, UAE, Hong Kong, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Oman, Africa, Vietnam, China, Cambodia and Mauritius. Agents have been identified," dairy development minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji told the assembly. As part of its national expansion plan, the state has already made available the Aavin products with the help of private operators in Rajasthan, Delhi, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, MP, West Bengal, Gujarat and Puducherry. This comes in the backdrop of increased milk procurement. The average procurement touched 29.46 lakh litres per day last year, as against 28.5 lakh litres in the previous fiscal.
 
 London-based IT consultant, K Jayachandran said he is happy about Aavin's entry into the UK. "It is an emotional attachment, basically, for those who have experienced the taste of Aavin in childhood days. It is a trusted brand and mothers trust Aavin more than anything else," he said. The tetra pack has a shelf life of 180 days. "Wish we get Aavin ghee too," Jayachandran said. Dairy development officials say the plan is to get better returns for the organization through exports of milk and milk products, and also compete with international players, regionally and across continents.
 
 "We have Indian diaspora, especially Tamils in many countries. They are used to Aavin. We want to tap that market, which is why we chose Singapore in the first place," Dairy development secretary K Gopal said. The countries were identified based on a quick market assessment for good demand. Much of the milk produced should either be sold or converted into byproducts such as milk powder and butter. 
 
 "Why should we convert into powder when we have possibilities in the international market? This is why we thought of export," the officer said. Aavin yoghurt will come in six flavours shortly, including one that is sugar-free.
 
 
