Ajmer: Campaign for Ajmer bypolls is moving at a great speed here and on Monday PCC chief Sachin Pilot participated in a mass marriage of Mali community in Kishangarh and gave blessings to 41 newly married couples. Interestingly, former chief minister Ashok Gehlot was also with Pilot who discussed on the system of mass marriages in communities and also met the public here. Congress candidate Raghu Sharma was also with them.

 Meanwhile, BJP star campaigner Niharika Raje came on ground to campaign for BJP candidate Ramswarup Lamba and went to Gujjar-dominated villages of Nasirabad and asked the elders to keep the pride of their daughter in this election. She also participated in ‘Mangal Geet’, tradition of Gujjars and was welcomed in many villages.
 
 On Monday Pilot went to Daurai, Dumara, Saradhna, Bubani, Muhami, Ghughra, Rasulpura and more than a dozen villages to meet the residents there. He said that in last four years the mafia of illegal mining has become stronger, same is the case with mafia of illicit liquor in Ajmer. He asked the voters to use their reasoning power and sense of judgment before choosing their representative and not go by any gossip.
 
 He also took up the issue of failure in governance and said that farmers have been going to government offices but are still not getting justice. In Pushkar, mineral mafia is working openly and there is no development of roads and schools. “BJP only knows how to create an atmosphere of terror and therefore it is creating a gulf between different castes and also instrumental in spreading hatred among different religions in order to rule,” said Pilot.
 
 On other hand, central agriculture minister Gajender Singh Shekhawat campaigned and praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for taking the country ahead in a positive direction. On the issue of ‘Padmaavat’ movie, Shekhawat said that the issue is not related to a particular community but it is about the esteem of a woman and therefore Rajasthan government is filing review petition in Supreme Court.
 
 BJP candidate Ramswarup Lamba campaigned in Pisanghan, Mangliyawas and Nasirabad region. District in-charge minister Kalu Lal Gujjar also campaigned for BJP and central Minister CR Choudhary also talked about various programmes of Modi government and sought Jat leaders’ support for BJP.
 
 
