HYDERABAD:   a well-planned plot to extract   from a school director, who was abducted in a filmi style on December 14, 2016, just a month after the Centre banned ₹1,000 and ₹500 currency notes. After a year, the   landed in police dragnet.

 Around 7 pm on December 14, 2016, as   was leaving his school at Boduppal, four persons — Santhosh, Rahul, Kiran, Naresh — posing as policemen, stopped his car near Nacharam, Cyberabad deputy commissioner of police, Malkajgiri, R Uma Maheswara Sharma said.
  
  
 They directed Susheel to get off his car to meet their officer, who was waiting in an Indica nearby. When Susheel went near the car, Kiran, who was inside the car, directed him to get into the vehicle, but when he resisted, the other culprits put a pistol to his forehead and pushed him into the Indica. Later, they took him to a room in Keesara and confined for two days.
 
 “As the abduction happened just after demonetisation, Susheel requested his captors to give him some time to arrange ₹1 crore. The abductors believed him, but warned him of dire consequences if he complained to the police. They took his mobile, gold chain, ring, a Tissot watch, debit card, car keys and directed him to pay the money within a week,’’ the DCP added. To the surprise of the culprits, their abduction made headlines as the victim’s family approached the police. Believing the victim’s promise to arrange money, they dropped him at Shamirpet at 4am on December 16 . Later, he stopped taking calls from the abductors.
 
 Prime accused Sadanand directed Santosh to get Susheel’s Volkswagen from his residence by using the key, which the victim gave them when he was in their captivity. Santosh took the car straight to Bengaluru airport, where it was parked for two days. Later, Sadanand went to the airport, took custody of the car and took it to his second wife Sireesha’s flat. The stolen vehicle’s number plate was changed and used in Bangalore.
 
 Meanwhile, as the months passed by, the other culprits got restless as they were not paid. Sadanand then decided to sell the stolen car and asked the other accused to get it to Hyderabad. As Santosh was looking for prospective customers, the culprits were caught while travelling in the car near Ghatkesar on ORR.
 
 
 
