NEW DELHI: Four months of footballing action has finally culminated into this: the big final of the  , featuring   and  . Former India footballer  , in his today's TOI column, mentioned that both franchises have been the most consistent teams of the tournament and it is fitting that they meet in the all-important final on Saturday.

 
 
 
 "The two most consistent teams have deservingly made it to the final of the Hero   and it promises to be a cracker. The final is going to be an interesting one," Bhutia wrote. "I see this getting tight and maybe even going to extra time. Both the teams are defensively very organised. Somehow I have a feeling that goals may come through dead balls and I don’t see any team going all out right from the kick-off.
 
 "It’s a battle of equals - the teams are similar in approach and most importantly, have the same kind of players. With a likely 4-2-3-1 combination in a final, the midfielders will have a defensive mindset."
 
 
 
 Bhutia pointed out how it were the two most prominent faces of Indian football – Sunil Chhetri and Jeje Lalpekhlua – that booked their respective sides a place in the final. For Bengaluru FC, it was Chhetri's hat-trick against FC Pune City – he scored in the 15th, 65th and 89th minute – that sealed their passage to the summit clash, whereas Jeje's double strike helped Chennaiyin FC beat FC Goa 3-0 (4-1 aggregate) in the semi-finals.
 
 "The best part of the semi-finals was that two Indian strikers made all the difference and it was a big advertisement for Indian football. Sunil Chhetri’s hat-trick for JSW Bengaluru FC and Jeje Lalpekhlua’s brace for Chennaiyin FC have raised expectations. It’s up to both to now finish off the job. Obviously, only one will end on the winning side. Sunil’s hat-trick was exemplary and it made all the difference in the second leg. The goals had the touch of experience and opportunism, not to forget the sublime skill which has made him stand out for the national team as well. It was a perfect display of how to deliver when the team depends on you," Chhetri mentioned.
 
 "You can argue the same for Jeje. He stepped up when required, and how? The match-winner that he is was on display and he was able to complement Chennaiyin’s team effort with two crucial strikes."
 
