NEW DELHI: The CBI on Saturday said the directors of city-based jewellery outlet   had fled from India along with their family members sometime in 2014, much before   (OBC) approached the agency with a complaint of fraud worth Rs 390 crore against them. 

  Agency sources admitted that they did not lodge the FIR immediately after the bank approached them with their complaint in August 2017. As per the CVC guidelines, the probe agency is supposed to register an FIR immediately in cases of frauds on public sector banks involving Rs one crore and above. 
 
  Sources, however, explained that the agency did immediately conduct a public scrutiny, especially against the alleged kingpin,  , but the matter had to be put on the back-burner after he and his accomplices could not be found at their respective addresses. 
 
  The disclosure of the timing when the scam happened suggests that the fraud was perpetrated before the Modi government took office: something which may have a bearing on the escalating fight between BJP and Congress over the scams. The two parties have skirmished over PNB fraud and Congress on Saturday blamed BJP for embezzlement from Oriental Bank of Commerce. 
 
  CBI is now planning to approach Interpol for notices against all the accused directors - Sabhya Seth, Reeta Seth, Krishna Kumar Singh and Ravi Kumar Singh - and question all those who were connected with the company's business activities here. TOI first reported the fraud on Saturday. 
 
  A retired CBI officer said, "OBC should have approached CBI in 2014 itself when the account of Dwarka Das Seth International was declared non-performing asset (NPA) and owners were untraceable. Instead, they waited for three years and filed a complaint in August 2017. CBI has often red-flagged rising cases of bank fraud and delay in identifying and reporting such frauds, which allows the borrowers to siphon off funds or flee before investigations are taken up." "Nonetheless, an FIR should have been registered in August 2017 when OBC approached the CBI," said the officer. 
 
  About the present location of Sabhya Seth, sources said he is most likely in Dubai. TOI spoke to Rishi Bahl, a financial consultant who was once taken by Sabhya Seth to Connaught Place branch of OBC claiming that they knew each other for long. 
 
  But Bahl told TOI , "I don't know Sabhya Seth very well. He had approached me for consultancy on taking loan." The bank, which had the last contact with Sabhya Seth in March 2014, has claimed that he availed credit facilities between 2007 and 2012 in the form of Letters of Credit (LC) for making payments to other trade creditors against the purchase of gold and other precious stones. 
 
 
