COLVA: Police on Saturday arrested three Indore-based men involved in the gangrape of 20-year-old girl at   beach after keeping one of the accused engaged through her 22-year-old friend on the pretext of paying them Rs 1 lakh.

 Police said the trio raped the survivor and then forced her boyfriend to   her. They filmed the act and threatened the couple of circulating the video on social media if they failed to pay the money.
 
 Police arrested Sanjeev Dhananjay Pal, 25, a teacher by profession, from Karmali railway station where he had come to collect the cash, while the other two accused, Ram Santosh Bhariya, 24, and Ishwar Makran, 24, were arrested from Margao bus stand and Margao railway station, respectively.
 
 The trio has a criminal background and cases have been registered against them in  , police said. Makran has a rape case against him, wherein he eloped with a girl and subsequently married her, while the other two daily wagers are involved in thefts.
 
 IGP Jaspal Singh told reporters that the accused were familiar with the isolated spots along the Colva-Betalbatim beach stretch as they were frequent visitors to Goa. 
 
 Their intention was to rob people of cash and ornaments.
 
 They targeted the young couple who had come for an outing and stayed till 11pm on the beach. The trio picked up a conversation with them and started demanding money. The couple gave them Rs 200, but that did not satisfy the trio and they started extorting more money. When they found that more money was not forthcoming, they started molesting the girl, raped her and filmed the act. They then threatened the duo that if they failed to pay Rs 1 lakh, then their video would be circulated on social media.
 
 The accused were armed with knives and a chopper, which they had robbed from a fisherman who was repairing his canoe.
 
 The survivor then lodged a complaint in the early hours of Friday alleging gangrape and extortion. She stated that Makwana filmed the act and was calling on her cell phone demanding Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Police asked the survivor's friend to engage Makran by agreeing to pay Rs 1 lakh in exchange of the film footage. Makran, who was in Margao, asked him to deliver the money at Karmali railway station. Police ensured the survivor’s friend constantly engaged Makwana on the phone so as to locate him. At Karmali railway station, Makran’s friend Sanjeev came to receive the cash and was arrested by police.
 
 Police then made  , who divulged that he was waiting at the Margao bus stand from where he was nabbed at around 9am. Police then used Ram to nab Makran.
 
 Police, dressed in the uniform of railway personnel, were posted on the tracks between Comba and KRC station, and Ram was ordered to continuously speak to Makran as he walked along the track. As the accused came along the tracks speaking on his mobile, police nabbed him.
 
 Police said all the accused have confessed to the crime and have been remanded in five days police custody. A case of rape, robbery and wrongful restraint has been registered against the trio. 
 
 
