KOLKATA: A dance teacher of a reputable English-medium school in south Kolkata, who had allegedly been molesting a Class-II student on the campus for the last three months, was finally arrested on Friday after the girl — unable to bear the abuse any longer — returned home on Wednesday and told her mom about what she was going through.

 The incident came barely 10 weeks after the sexual assault on a lower nursery student of another south Kolkata school last November led to the arrest of two PT teachers and the girl leaving the school. Parents of schoolgoing children, however, may have more reasons to be worried. The failure to comply with all security norms laid down by the government — and the first response to the complaint — showed how some schools were refusing to learn lessons from these horrific incidents, members of West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights said after visiting the school on Friday.
 
 
 
  
 
 Parents of the seven-yearold girl lodged a complaint with the Tollygunge police station on Friday, alleging that the teacher,  , had been touching her “inappropriately” over several months and had been threatening her to not disclose this to anyone. But the girl returned home on Wednesday, evidently traumatised by the latest threat: Rana had told her that he would kill her and dump her body at a picnic ground in Ballygunge, where the students would be going next Monday, she told her parents. Other parents corroborated that this teacher had a “reputation” and demanded to know why the school had not acted against him despite several allegations.
 
 “The incident has left my daughter shattered and she is in trauma. Police will take action but we are more concerned about the stance the school takes. We want to know what it is doing to ensure our daughter’s safety,” the girl’s mother told 
 .
 
 
 
 
 We arrested the teacher and conducted a medical test on the girl at SSKM Hospital. We will produce the teacher in court and seek its permission to record the girl’s statement,” joint commissioner (crime) of Kolkata Police   said. The teacher has been booked under IPC sections for criminal intimidation and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
 
 The mother told cops that she discussed the matter with some other parents on their WhatsApp group and then apprised the principal on Thursday, who allegedly asked the mother to bring proof. The mother then went to cops and also returned to the same WhatsApp group, telling other parents of the principal’s reaction, which resulted in a large number of guardians descending on the school on Friday to demand the teacher’s arrest.
 
 Police officials confirmed that the school had not informed them about the incident even after knowing about it at least 24 hours ago. A three-member team of West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights met the principal and said it had “found lapses”. “We found certain lapses as the CCTVs were not functioning and they did not inform the police even after knowing about it,” commission member   said.
 
  of Calcutta vicar-general Father   said a team was sent from the archbishop’s house to the school. “We have spoken to the principal but it will take some time before the investigation is complete and we can comment only after that,” the statement added.
 
 Most parents, angry with the school’s response to the alleged crime, were clearly not willing to wait that long. Hundreds of guardians skipped office and gathered outside the school at 11am. “Why did the school not learn a lesson even after a similar incident happened at another school just months ago? There have been repeated allegations against this teacher, who makes little girls sit on his lap and asks them to kiss him. We have time and again tried to talk to the principal but she refuses to meet us,” the mother of another Class-II girl, who was at the forefront of the agitation, said.
 
 Protesting parents demanded the teacher be handed over to them and started throwing whatever they could lay their hands on — stones, water bottles and shoes — as cops brought the teacher, face covered with a green towel, out. Some rained blows on the teacher but most of them fell on cops, who detained two guardians for some time.
 
 The principal came out of the school at one point of time and announced on a loudspeaker that normal classes would be held from Tuesday after the school picnic on Monday. She, however, refused to meet parents.
 
 State education minister Partha Chatterjee said the government would act against schools that refused to implement the safety measures they were asked to follow. “Private schools should be more cautious while employing teachers. They should know who they are hiring,” Chatterjee said. “Schools should be even more careful where students are girls. Every school should instal CCTVs on and outside the campus. We hope the school will take action against the accused. We shall also conduct a separate enquiry into the matter.”
 
