Madurai: The Vaigai river, which is a symbol of Tamil culture and heritage can be restored to its past glory by taking adequate steps to check encroachments, pollution and ground water level, said the water man of India, Dr Rajendra Singh.

 Speaking at the Vaigai river restoration workshop held at the Madurai collectorate on Thursday, he said that three things have to be taken into consideration before restoration work of the river is taken up. They are encroachments, pollution of the river and receding ground water levels. If all these three things are checked and resolved, the river would start flowing again. He said that he had consulted the district collector and the Madurai Corporation commissioner, and it was decided to form five committees to take care of the restoration work.
 
 These committees will comprise an awareness committee of socially concerned people, an education committee of educational institutions and students, a representatives committee of public, police and farmers, a grievance identification committee of engineers, farmers and PWD (public works department) officials and a grievance redressal committee. If these committees are formed, the restoration of the river can be done successfully, he said.
 
 Collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that the many steps were being taken to restore the river and that it was being cleaned periodically as per the suggestions of the court. Many works, including redefining the boundaries of the river, implementation of solid waste management, removal of shrubs and thorny bushes from the riverbed, forming water harvesting structures among others had been carried out by the government employees, educationists and NGOs, as part of the restoration works.
 
 A mass cleaning campaign was conducted last September in which 23,570 people, including members of NGOs, sanitary workers, members of SHGs, farmers and many others participated to clean a 43.10km stretch from Kuruvithurai to Angadimangalam in Madurai district. 
 
 By restoring the river, it will not benefit just the people of Madurai, but also those from Theni, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga as it is the source of water for these districts. It will enhance agriculture as well as improve the ground water table in these districts, he added.
 
 Madurai Corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar, additional collector (development) S P Amirth, farmers, NGOs and social activists participated.
 
 
