GURUGRAM:   has issued notices to several property owners who had paid property taxes for commercial properties following slabs for residential properties. Most of the cases involve paying guest accommodations or guest houses in residential areas.

 According to MCG officials, there are several properties for which the owners have paid taxes according to the lower residential slab, whereas they are running commercial operations within the properties.
 
 “We have sent notices to all such property owners, asking them to pay the pending amount within a stipulated time period,” said  , joint commissioner, MCG.
 
 Talking about the number of properties to which the notices have been issued, Gupta said it varies from one zone to the next. In 2017, MCG had conducted a survey to list the number of properties where guest houses or paying guest accommodations were running illegally.
 
 The survey was ordered by chief minister   in the run-up to the formation of a policy for paying guest house accommodations. Sources in the corporation said the number of such properties listed by MCG were around 4,300 in all four zones. At the time, for reasons unknown the survey was dropped halfway after orders from Chandigarh. Gupta however said many of the properties listed in the survey had turned out to be on lease taken by MNCs, and hence they are not in principle commercial properties. 
 
 During the survey in August last year, MCG had issued show cause notices to 635 paying guest houses in Zone 1, also giving orders for 66 to be sealed. MCG had also been in news for a property tax scam where many properties in the commercial category benefited by paying taxes under residential category with the help of a few employees within the corporation. Later, the corporation traced the property owners involved in the scam and recovered the money. 
 
 TOI had earlier reported that a few MCG employees had floated a fake website to provide consultancy services for property tax payments. 
 
 According to highly placed sources within the corporation, the website, which had been later pulled down, had lured people by offering the possibility of altering or reducing their property tax amounts.
 
