By Mahalakshmi R 

 It is not a rare situation. You are enjoying your role and delivering the impact expected. Then, a role comes up for discussion and to accept it or not becomes the key question. This situation could happen within the organisation or, at times, it is that call from a   you hesitate to pick! Assuming there are no major push factors for you, here are five simple questions I would encourage you to reflect on before you make that decision:
 
 Have I maximised my learnings from this role?
 
 This is perhaps the most important question. In my career I have seen many young talents flitting between   within 12-18 months and hungry for width of experiences, even if within the same organisation. Nothing can damage a long-term career more than this. It is of utmost importance that we reflect if the insights and learnings from the role have been fully gleaned, so we make that experience count — before hungering for that next experience.
 
 Have I made visible impact? Am I leaving the legacy I wanted to when I took this role? 
 
 For your personal talent brand to truly shine, it is important that you spend time in each stint — not just learning, but also delivering. Develop a discipline of identifying and documenting ways in which you add value to your employer. Spend a few minutes at the end of each month to record what you’ve learned and accomplished. Soon, you will have a rich archive of material that you can use to deepen your self-awareness, hone your career goals, and reflect on the value you create.
 
 If you think that leaving a legacy is what only CEOs do, you can’t be farther from the truth. Each role allows you to leave your unique stamp. So have you done something in this role that your successors will remember you for? If not, is there an opportunity for you to do that now?
 
 Is the role taking me closer to my destination?
 
 Progressive organisations like   provide employees with a view on experience clusters needed for key   roles. This helps colleagues to understand the crucible experiences needed and chart their personal unique journeys towards destination roles. Whether your organisation has a similar career-lattice framework or not, one of the most seminal yardsticks with which you could evaluate options is to check if the role takes you closer to your destination role or closer to living your purpose. In other words, it is important to take a two-to-three step view to the decision as compared to taking a view on the ‘pros and cons’ of the current role versus the offered role. Does the offered role help me realise my purpose? Does it propel me faster in the direction I dream of going? What would be the role offers that would come my way if I said yes versus if I stayed on in my current role — and does it justify the shift? 
 
 What sacrifices do I need to make if I take this opportunity? And conversely — what is the opportunity cost of not choosing it?
 
 Often when we sit to reflect on options, we end up doing that in isolation. However, seasoned professionals know the importance of looking at options holistically. Seeing how it fits with their life and reflecting on who they will become — as they reflect on role choices. 
 
 Does it score on the trailer test?
 
 Imagine yourself in that role, speak to past incumbents in that role, key customers, key stakeholders — and then paint the picture of what a day would be like in that position. This networking provides unique insight, not to mention valuable connections and perhaps even opportunities for shadowing. Basis on what you pick, does it resonate with your values? Does it fuel your passion? Does the culture of the new place unleash you to be the best version of yourself? Connect, converse, reflect and then decide basis the trailer of the role if the movie will be worth investing in! If the answer is no, the choice is clear. If the answer is maybe, then perhaps there is an opportunity to dig deeper and find out. Most importantly, it is crucial to also remember that there are more choices that will continue to come your way if you are good. So, don’t compromise and make it a forced choice between the current role and this one role! 
 
 Then step back and embrace the fact that you are the pilot of your career. No one else has a direct access to your ambitions, interests, and values, and after reflecting on the above five questions, the decision sits with you. The more you practise career crafting, the better you get at it.
 
 The author is HR director,   India. Views are personal
 
 
