MHOW: The   and   rivers, which are a major source of   in Depalpur and Dhar tehsils, have dried up earlier this year. The rivers used to have sufficient water till the end of February, but, this time they have dried up in the last week of December.

 Originating from a pond at the top of Janapao hill near Mhow, both Chambal and Gambhir are a major source of water for several villages in Indore and Dhar districts. Gambhir river flows through certain areas in Mhow and after crossing Pithampur and Betma it reaches Ujaliya and Khadotiya villages in Depalpur tehsil before passing through Ujjain district.
 
 Chintesh Vaidya of Ujaliya and Lakhan Singh Darbar of Khadotiya village said that due to early drying up of Gambhir river in their area the underground water level has become very low. Earlier, the villagers had to dig 150 to 200 feet to get sufficient water from bore wells, but in the last week of December they had to dig upto 300 to 400 feet. They said that it’s an alarming situation because if the underground water goes down it becomes a threat to the vegetation in the region.
 
 Sopan Joshi of Parampara Foundation, which studies rivers and suggests revival measures for them, said that if a river dries it has many devastating effects. The water table of the area surrounding it plunges and this in turn affects the forest region and greenery. The trees get water from the underground source through capillary action which is possible only up to a certain depth since they become unable to suck water after that depth.
 
 The situation is alike in the areas from where the Chambal river flows. After leaving Janapao, Chambal flows through the south of Pithampur and crosses Ghatabillod in Dhar before reaching Ujjain via Gautampura town in Depalpur tehsil.
 
 Dharamveer Jat, whose farmland is near the banks of Chambal river at Ghatabillod on Mhow-Neemuch highway said only traces of water could be noticed in the river. “Earlier, I used to draw water through pumps till the end of February but, this year it has dried up very soon. We were totally dependent on Chambal water for our Rabi crops and due to scarcity of water we will have to face loss.”
 
 Another villager Bhagwan Parmar of Ralayta near Gautampura said that their cattle used to drink water of Chambal river till March-end, but now, they are worried for their animals.
 
 Anupam Mishra Foundation’s Prabhat Jha, who has been doing a study on Chambal, Gambhir and Choral for the past five years, said that low rainfall is one of the reasons for early drying up of the rivers. They have also dried up in absence of desilting. The water retention capacity of the rivers has been greatly affected in absence of desilting. “I had suggested for continuous desilting of these rivers, but nothing has been done in this regard,” he claimed.
 
 As the villagers are worried about the situation, district administration is gearing to come with an aid for them. Mhow tehsildar Tapish Pandey said, “The farmers of the areas that were dependent on the rivers often have to face such situation. Alternative arrangements to deal with the situation are in the pipeline.”
 
 Interestingly, inflow of both the rivers increases as soon as they cross Indore and Dhar districts. Former Gautampura municipal committee chairman Vishal Rathi said that after they cross Indore and Dhar districts they have a network of tributaries because of which there is a continuous inflow in the rivers. 
 
 
