Tirunelveli: The Rajasthan Tamil Sangam, which is an association of people from Tamil Nadu who are working and settled in Rajasthan, is extending help to NEET aspirants from TN whose exam centres are in that state. Candidates from Tamil Nadu will have to travel more than 2,000km to reach their exam centres in Rajasthan.

 Member of Rajasthan Tamil Sangam, S Muruganantham, 24, who hails from Salem and working for the Smart Cities project in Jaipur, told TOI over phone that the association would arrange pickup of NEET aspirants and their parents from railway stations, bus stands and airports, provide accommodation, local transport to exam centres and drop at the place from where they would return to Tamil Nadu after the test.
 
 The decision to help the aspirants was taken after a discussion in their WhatsApp group. The members then circulated the message in Tamil and English on WhatsApp with the contact details of the members, which went viral. By Friday afternoon, the association received calls from around 30 NEET aspirants and their parents and relatives.
 
 “We don’t know the number of aspirants who will be coming here. Be it 50 or 200 or more, we are ready to help them. Up to 30 aspirants can be accommodated in our houses in Jaipur. We are also holding talks with hostels and lodges to accommodate aspirants in Jaipur and in the five other NEET centres in this state – Ajmer, Bikaner, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Udaipur,” he said.
 
 Muruganantham said that local transportation in Rajasthan is very poor compared to Tamil Nadu and there is a language barrier. This will make it difficult for the aspirants to reach the examination centres. The association has made proper transportation arrangements for them. “We are doing our best to help the aspirants from our state. We want distressed aspirants to feel comfortable and focus on the exams,” he added.
 
 The association said that some organisations and individuals in Tamil Nadu are extending help to aspirants to reach Rajasthan and that their association would like to collaborate with them in extending help.
 
 For help, students and their relatives can contact association president Soundaranayagi (08696922117) and members Muruganantham (09790783187) and Bharathi (07357023549).
 
 
