GHAZIABAD: A power loom owner was booked for   on Thursday, a day after a labourer was found dead inside the factory’s premises in Kasba Road in  . The body of Ravinder (40) was found in a storehouse in the power loom.

 The case was registered on Thursday after a large number of workers protested in front of the factory. The workers alleged collusion between the factory owner and police to hush up the case. 
 
  
  According to police, Ravinder’s alleged murder is the third in a series of unnatural deaths of workers reported from different power looms in the area over the past 15 days.
 
 “The factory owner called us around 12 midnight on Wednesday informing about the death of a worker in the power loom. We found the body of Ravinder lying in a storehouse with blood oozing out of the mouth. Other workers told us that he had gone untraceable after a sudden power cut at around 7.30 pm. They thought Ravinder had left for his living quarters until they stumbled upon his body three hours later,” said local police outpost in-charge Lalit Kumar.
 
 Muradnagar is dotted with scores of power looms, many of which operate out of residential units. Police said a woman worker was allegedly killed in one of the power looms some 12 days ago.
 
 “The factory owner claimed the woman worker’s saree got entangled in a loom which resulted in the fatal accident. A few days later, another worker was reportedly killed after tumbling down a staircase, allegedly in an inebriated condition, in a different power loom,” said Lalit Kumar.
 
 Following the cases, a labour department team had conducted inspections in two power looms last week. “The power looms operate in residential units. Both have less than five workers each. They are not registered with the government either. We can register manufacturing units under the Factory Act only if they have a minimum workforce of 10 persons and operate in industrial areas. The situation in most power looms in the area is similar,” assistant director (factories) Kamlesh Kanojiya told TOI.
 
 The police have registered an FIR on Ravinder’s death in Muradnagar police station. “The FIR was registered in accordance with the allegations levelled by the deceased worker’s family members. The autopsy report is awaited. Any further action will be taken on the basis of the autopsy report,” said SHO, Muradnagar, Ranveer Singh.
 
 
