NAGPUR: For the first time in over two years of Brahmanaad event, the early morning classical music programme organized by South Central Zone Cultural Centre (SCZCC), strains of Hindi film music were heard by an audience accustomed to purist performances by renowned artistes. But the performance by   was no less than those who have preceded him on this stage. In fact, it was more innovative as Deshpande has taken sitar out of the domain of classical music.

 Deshpande, who hails from Belgaum in  , has had his training in Hindustani classical music. But he has chosen to extend his craft to not just popular music but jazz and rock too. On Sunday morning, he began with a bada khayal in raag Ahir Bhairav and ended with a jod in madhya lay teen taal. He followed this with a popular Hindi bhajan ‘Payo ji maine Ram Ratan dhan payo’ and a natya geet ‘Marma bandhatali thev hi’ from the vintage Marathi drama Sanyast Khadga.
 
 But what had the audience swaying to the melodies flowing out of the unique sitar that Deshpande held was an eclectic medley of some eight songs which define golden classics of Hindi films. “Sitar is an instrument made essentially for Hindustani classical music. To play any other form on it is very difficult,” he told the audience. To be able to play these melodies and other genres of music, he has made changes to the sitar. “And while playing, it is difficult to adapt to these changes,” he said.
 
 Deshpande strummed songs like ‘Aap ki nazaron ne samjha’, ‘Baharon phool barsao’, ‘Yun hasraton ke daag’, ‘Jawaniya ye mast mast’ and ‘Ye sama’ on a virtual track which has been composed by him. “I have tried my best to recreate the magic of these songs but an instrument can still not match the vocals,” he said while stringing out melodies like ‘Lag jaa gale’ and ‘Tere sur aur mere geet’. Deshpande ended the performance with a request from the audience for a bhavgeet — ‘Sakhi mand zalya taraka’ — originally sung by Bhimsen Joshi.
 
 Later speaking to TOI about the need to improvise the sitar, Deshpande said, “Sitar is not a global instrument like harmonium, violin, guitar or piano. In our films we see actors playing a piano or guitar but never will we see the use of Indian instruments like sitar, sarangi or tabla in western films or by musicians unless it is a fusion performance. I have made physical changes in the sitar to make it possible for it to be a part of popular, jazz or rock music.”
 
 Quotes:
 
 It was a nice performance as Deshpande is a well known artiste. For the first time I heard film songs being played on sitar and loved it. Even presentation of raag Ahir Bhairav and natya geet was very nice
 
 Mohit Gadge | student
 
 I enjoy these early morning performances and it was very soothing to hear this modified version of sitar. Sanjay Deshpande has developed a unique technique with this instrument which I like very much
 
  | homemaker
 
 People enjoyed this performance very much but I found the sustained resonance that emanates from the sitar missing. Hindi film music is so popular with the Indians that people enjoy it whichever way you may play it
 
 Avaneendra Sheolikar | sitar player
 
 
 
 
