KOCHI: Njarackal police probing the death of Krishnapriya (21), who   and was later found dead in the backwaters, now suspect that she had copied the act of Mishel, a teenager   in March, 2017, after jumping off the second  . 

 According to police, the woman used to talk about Mishel to her sister. "As part of our primary investigation we collected statements of her relatives and friends. Her sister has told us that she used to talk about Mishel, and we suspect this has a connection with her jumping off the same bridge," said Rageesh Kumar, sub-inspector, Njarackal. Krishnapriya of Elankunnapuzha had gone missing hours before her wedding on Sunday after she left a beauty parlour in the morning. Police officials said the woman had a reserved character. "We talked to a few friends of her but we couldn't find much about her," said the SI.
 
 Cops have summoned the woman's ex-boyfriend and the   to the police station on Saturday to get a clear picture.
 
 She was found dead on Tuesday and the police said that a man had seen her on the Goshree Bridge on her wedding day. It seems like she jumped off the bridge, said police.
 
 Police say that the woman had broken up with her ex-boyfriend six months ago. "She wasn't in touch with him but used to call her fiance regularly. It seems something happened in the last minute which forced her to take the extreme step. The probe is still on," said an officer.
 
 While the body of Krishnapriya was found at the Mulavukad cooperative road jetty, Mishel's body was found from Ernakulam Wharf. Police had found a witness, who claims to have seen someone similar to Mishel on the second Goshree Bridge on the night she went missing. In the case of Krishnapriya, a relative has said she had seen Krishnapriya on the same bridge.
 
 The crime branch team which probed the death of Mishel filed an interim report in court stating the reason of death as suicide, her family is not satisfied with the probe.
 
 "The family still believes that there was some foul play. They are moving for a CBI inquiry and are also thinking of moving legally for a second post-mortem examination," said Father Eliyas, who is close to the family.
 
