COIMBATORE: T  , a 22-year-old electrical engineering student, was on a train to Chennai last year, when he saw a visually-challenged man struggling to find his way through the compartment using only his cane.

 The man’s plight prompted Abuthahir and his classmate   to develop a device for the visually-challenged, which would not only detect obstacles, but also inform them the nature of obstacle.
 
 The device,   or Assistive Device for Life Enhancement, uses machine learning techniques. “We wanted to replace the ubiquitous cane with wearables for visually-challenged people and made a glove that would vibrate when they face an obstacle. But, when we gave a prototype to visually-challenged people for trial, we found that they were not ready to give up the cane,” said Abuthahir. “The cane was almost like a limb for them.”
 
 The revelation changed their way of thinking. They then decided to address the shortcomings of canes. “When we found that smart canes for the visually-challenged only vibrate when they near an obstacle, we decided to make a smart cane that identifies the type of obstacle as well,” Abuthahir told TOI.
 
 Employing deep learning, a part of machine learning, they built a single-board computing device, which with the help of a camera and a sensor, identifies the type of obstacle. The device has two components, a wearable component and a trigger attached to the cane. “The cane will give a signal when it senses an obstacle nearby. When the trigger is activated, the wearable component will identify the obstacle and trigger a voice announcement,” said Anantakrishnan. Currently, the device can identify about 21 objects such as chairs, tables, vehicles and animals.
 
 Abuthahir and Anantakrishnan, who graduated in 2017, have also extended their project to include a voice-controlled mechanism to switch-on and switch-off electrical appliances. This feature is very useful, said  , junior assistant at the section for differently-abled at the   and a visually-challenged person himself. “Visually-challenged people are more prone to electric shocks when they try to operate switches. This device would bring down such incidents,” he said. Users of the library have found a prototype of the device extremely useful.
 
 Abuthahir and   are in the process of obtaining a patent for Adle and also launch a startup.
 
 
