SASARAM/GAYA: Chief minister   on Wednesday reviewed execution of development projects in several districts of Patna and Magadh divisions. While reviewing the development work in Rohtas, Kaimur, Bhojpur and Buxar districts under Patna division at  , the CM asked officials to adopt cautious approach and avoid overenthusiasm while declaring a panchayat, a block or a district open defecation free (ODF). He also asked them to adopt pragmatic approach while implementing welfare schemes and take elected representatives from all political parties into confidence.

 “Making   ODF is our priority, but one needs to have a cautious approach in claiming the status. If the job is 99% complete in any area, then instead of making a dash for ODF status, attention should be paid to the remaining 1%,” the CM said. “If a panchayat declares itself as ODF, they should get the same verified and share their feedback with the administration,” he added. 
 
 Sources in district administration said the CM also gave his consent for four-laning of the 10km-old GT Road at an estimated cost of Rs 80 crore and directed the district magistrates of four districts to focus on solar light scheme and get it installed even in remote villages.
 
 Before holding the review meeting at Sasaram, Nitish inaugurated an 80-feet tall statue of Lord Buddha at the ashram of spiritual guru ' ' . Later he was felicitated by 'Pilot Baba', who presented him with an ‘angavastra’ and an idol of Buddha. 
 
 In  , the CM reviewed implementation of development schemes in Aurangabad, Jehanabad, Arwal and Nawada districts. 
 
 According to sources, during the nearly three-hour long meet, the CM pulled up Nawada SP for tardy implementation of prohibition law and expressed his unhappiness over illegal sell of liquor in Govindpur and   areas of the district. 
 
 Nitish also discussed the issue of four-laning of Dobhi-Patna road and directed the officials concerned to sincerely implement the ‘Saat Nischay’ schemes with special emphasis on tap water availability, student credit card and unemployment allowance.
 
 He was accompanied by state JD (U) president Bashishtha Narain Singh and government officials, including chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh.
 
 
