THRISSUR: Health minister   on Saturday claimed that   in the state has been brought under control. The minister made the claim while presiding over the inauguration of various facilities at the Thrissur Medical College Hospital.

 
 “Twenty-one samples sent for analysis tested negative for   on Friday. Since, the virus has a long incubation period, there could be some more cases of infection. But its strike capacity will reduce, as the time advances,” she said.
 
 Three cases of patients hailing from Malappuram were found to be linked to the virus sources in Perambra. “This gives us reasons for hope. If the source of infection was different, then it would have been cause of worry,’’ the minister said.
 
 Shailaja said the Nipah virus is lethal and could have caused many deaths. “In some of the countries it took several days and death of 40 to 50 people, to identify the virus. Here, we could identify the next day, and take control measurers immediately,’’ the minister claimed. Shailaja said there is no relevance in the disputes that bats may not be responsible for the spread of the virus just because samples from the mammal found in the well at Perambra tested negative. “All bats may not be carrying the virus. Just because one bat was found to be not carrying the Nipah virus, we cannot say they are not carriers. We are sending a team of veterinarians to Perambra for more studies,’’ the minister said.
 
 The state government would embark on a study to identify the root cause behind the outbreak of various diseases surfacing in the state every year, she said. “Despite the progress made in several health indicators, the state had been witnessing disease outbreaks every year for the past 15 years, and we must identify the fundamental cause,” Shailaja said. The human monoclonal antibody to be imported from Australia will be used on Nipah patients following the protocols set by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the World Health Organisation (WHO), the minister said on the sidelines of the function.
 
 
