HYDERABAD: Actress Sridevi's fans and admirers are demanding answers from the   on ' ' in a bathtub in Dubai. The   which announced the 'case closed' on February 27 is being flooded with questions on the death of the actress in a hotel on February 24. "Release a complete autopsy report," urged  . "Something. Majority of people in India are not convinced. Why is the full autopsy report not being released? She was a celebrity star with millions of followers,"   from Kerala asked. 

 
 
  has many questions. "How did she fall unconscious? "I am a human being with some common sense," explaining why she was asking many questions on the issue. Ajinthya Thakur had some explanation to give about how one become unconscious. 
 
 Kavitha Mudiraj said, " With all respect towards Dubai law, we request, don't just stop it with "Accidental drowning" and please let us know more details. We as fans want to know what has happened to her exactly There are many questions left unanswered. Please do something to get all the facts." 
 
 Many demanded to know how she could have lost consciousness. This is something the death certificate and the embalming report issued by the authorities had not explained. 
 
 It may be mentioned here that the Dubai Media Office had tweeted on February 27 saying that the Dubai Public Prosecution has approved the release of the body of the Indian actress Sridevi to her family following the completion of a comprehensive investigation into the circumstances of her death. "Dubai Public Prosecution stressed that all regular procedures followed in such cases have been completed. As per the forensic report, the death of the Indian actress occurred due to accidental drowning following loss of consciousness. The case has now been closed," it said. 
 
 
 
 "She died mysteriously questions need to be answered, some questioned posed are relevant and logical. Something seems hidden," commented Sagar Singh in response to the Dubai Media Office tweets. 
 
 Jinan made a plea to the Dubai police. "Please explain “Accidental Drowning,” he said also asking why a criminal motive was ruled out. Shaik who also responded on the tweets asked: "What the reason for closing the case because before a few hours the investigation was going on strictly but suddenly an announcement was made saying it was closed:" 
 
 One Ravi Teja also sought to know how the 'accidental drowning' report was given. He wanted to know with what evidence the word 'accidental' was used. 
 
 The Dubai Media Office did not reply to any of the questions. 
 
