JAIPUR: Chief minister Vasundhara   will lead the next government in the state, announced incharge of state party affairs Avinash Rai Khanna.

 Khanna’s statement puts to rest the several speculations on the leadership in the state - a frequent debate in the state  . Disgruntled party workers have often been floating rumors about Raje being replaced ahead of the forthcoming assembly elections, which were fueled by reports of the chief minister not being too happy with the party high command’s choice for the next state party president and the party’s bypoll debacle.
 
 ``There is no dispute over state leadership. CM Vasundhara Raje will not only lead the party in the forthcoming assembly elections but also lead the next government,’’ said Khanna, while interacting with the media persons at the state party headquarters on Monday. Speaking about the delay in the announcement of the new state president, he said, ``an announcement will come after the Karnataka elections and after holding deliberations with all.’’
 
 Reacting to reports on various communities in the state being upset with ruling BJP, the latest being Gujjars, he said that the BJP will not break any of its promise. ``We stand by the assurance given by us and no community will have anything to complaint about. We will ensure justice for all and will fulfill our promises,’’ said Khanna. Gujjars have been threatening yet another agitation over their reservation demand.
 
 ``The government has done good work and most of our promises have been fulfilled. However, not everything can be achieved at one go. The party needs a second chance,’’ said Khanna.
 
 Khanna is on a two-day visit to Jaipur. On Monday, he along with state general secretary (organisation)   presided over a meeting of the state party’s women wing. Addressing the meeting, Khanna said that BJP had strived for women empowerment. ``We worked much harder for women empowerment and achieved results that   could not in 50 years. Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao and provisions for death penalty to those found guilty of raping girls younger than 12 years, are all measures taken to ensure empowerment of women,’’ he said.
 
 
