 sits with an effervescent smile, occasionally glancing at the greenery outside the window. As she laughs heartily even for the simplest of things, you tend to wonder what her secret of sustenance in the unpredictable Mollywood is. In an industry that has set expiry dates for the career of lead actresses, Malayalis have embraced her irrespective of her age or marital status.

  
 
 Having been in the movie business for two decades now - most of it away from the silver screen, her career is only getting busier now. Be it How Old Are You?, Aami or C/o Saira Bhanu, she stood out regardless of the fate of the film. Cinema is her first love and she admits that she is motivated by her passion for it.
 
  
 
 Her dreams are simple and she believes that actors are just characters in a movie moulded by the filmmaker. The ‘always happy’ Manju Warrier speaks:
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Who wouldn’t love to play a Lalettan fan? This film has an interesting storyline about a girl who is a die-hard Lalettan fan. The story is weaved beautifully using innocent humour. I loved the idea behind it and the narrative style. It has a fantastic team including director  , the scriptwriter Suneesh and a lot of talented actors who are really good at enacting humour. I think there are 108 artistes in the film.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 Though my characters like Saira Bhanu had a tinge of humour, this is the first time I am doing an out-and-out comedy character in the film, which is a ‘mass’, fun entertainer. I would have surely watched this movie in the theatres and celebrated it no matter who played the lead role as every bit of it is a laugh riot. I consider myself lucky to be part of a movie. There is a natural humour in every dialogue of the film and that made it easier for me. I didn’t have to forcefully insert or create humour.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 I am a fan of both Mammukka and Lalettan. I am not being diplomatic here. As an actor, I know how much effort an artistes takes for a film and also the strengths of Lalettan and Mammukka. They are each in their own way incomparable. They are the pillars of Mollywood and they are standing strong because of their talent and decades of dedication.
 
 
  
 
 In this film, my character Meenukutty is not a blind fan of Mohanlal but someone who has been deeply influenced by the actor and the person. 
 
 
 
 (Laughs) It is an interesting coincidence and I am really enjoying the situation. While on one side, I am Meenukutty who is ready to die for Lalettan and on the other I am acting alongside him.
 
  
 
 
 
 Yes, of course. We began the movie with his blessings and named it Mohanlal with his permission. He often enquires about the movie and intently listens to everything I have to say about it.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 I do not think there is any problem in finding a person as a role model or being inspired by the things that person is doing in his or her life. But anything done to extreme is dangerous; not only fandom but anything in life. I like to term them well-wishers than fans when talking of those who wish us the best, points out our mistakes and accept us the way we are. I do not agree with irrational fights between the fans of actors. Mammukka and Lalettan might be best friends in real life. The same should be the case of their fans as well. We should think about cinema collectively and work for it.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Aami was Kamal sir’s visualisation of Madhavikutty, the writer, the person and the idea he has about her from her writings and from what he has heard. We all have an imagination about the writer and each of them will be different. Only Madhavikutty truly knew what she was and we have no right to judge her. I gave myself to Kamal sir, stayed free and enjoyed playing the Madhavi kutty in his mind.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 I am a director’s actor and I never thought I had to worry about the image I will have after the movie as Kamal sir is someone who has given me two of my best characters in Krishnagudiyile Oru Pranayakalathu and Ee Puzhayum Kadannu. My only State Award was for his film. So, I was confident that he will be more conscious about my image than me.
 
  
 
 Also, Aami happened while I was busy with other movies. Though the film needed extensive research, I knew I wouldn’t get enough time. So the best way I thought was to be a tool to Kamal sir’s vision as he had been working on the project for almost two years.
 
  
 
 
 
 I am not aware about the technicalities of makeup. I do not use make up either. I have given complete freedom to the director, cinematographer and makeup department to style me and mould me peripherally so I become the character they have in their minds. I totally respect their vision.
 
  
 
 
 I play Prabha, who is a prominent character in the film. I cannot reveal much as there is a lot of suspense revolving around her character. However, she is a strong person. I am acting with Prakash Raj for the first time and also with the iconic Iruvar combination of Lalettan and Prakash Raj. They are mega talents. I also play different ages in the movie like them.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 There were always good films in Malayalam. Every era had new films and change was always part of our cinema. I think it is a very hopeful phase now in Malayalam cinema. There is a healthy spirit and also a competition to make good movies. A lot of good films in different genres are coming up and there is an abundance of talent in the industry. Above all, we have a fantastic audience who is aware about the nuances of filmmaking and film viewing.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 I am really grateful for that. I am blessed for being welcomed back to the industry with all the love and support. Cinema or an actor has no existence without the audience. They are the strength and I have no idea why they have held me dear. It’s probably because of my characters, and for that I am obliged to the makers of the films.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Life is always beautiful - be it as a man or a woman. I am a person who goes with the flow and that keeps me happy
 
