THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Small replicas of human limbs and organs, copper plates with strange inscriptions, a trishul, white pebbles, red ribbon...former   president   is now picking up creepy things from his backyard. 

 In fact, he had been stumbling upon these strange items, said to be used for occult or   spells, on the premises of his house at   here for the past couple of years. It would mean that the suspected 'black magic attack' had begun even a year before Sudheeran stepped down as the KPCC chief.
 
 Now, almost fed up, and to let everyone know (or whoever trying to cast a spell on him) that it's 'a sheer waste of energy', the   leader has informed the police of the ninth such 'attack' and has handed over the 'scary items to them'. The objects were found in a bottle of a chocolate health drink near a plantain tree close to the compound wall on Sunday morning.
 
 "It was picked up by one of my staff members during his routine checking. I informed the police and a sub-inspector came here and inspected the compound. I thought I should tell everyone, and share my sympathy for these black magicians who are carrying out such futile deeds in a progressive society," Sudheeran said.
 
 He had already posted the matter with pictures on his Facebook page. "It's not the usual stuff always, but varies; may be because the spells have different purposes," Sudheeran said.
 
 It wouldn't be a big deal for 'black magicians' to bury things inside the compound as they can easily climb the small boundary wall, Sudheeran said. But, he is not somebody who will get freaked out and start digging up the whole premise.
 
 "I don't think these are works of my political opponents. But I am sure that some people are being deceived by black magicians, who are making some quick money. We need to educate those poor souls on the futility of such tricks," Sudheeran added.
 
 Or, could it be some chronic boozers, who want to put a curse on Sudheeran for his continuing crusade against liberal liquor policies? The question went unanswered as he preferred to break into a meaningful laughter.
 
