NAGPUR: “I believe curator and wicketkeeper’s job are thankless. These two are the only jobs in cricket that are done front-on. 

 
 “All others are side on whether it’s batting or bowling. Hence, they are always on line of fire,” former Vidarbha skipper   said during his felicitation function organized by Sports Journalists’ Association of Nagpur on Saturday.
 
 Hinganikar has performed both jobs with aplomb during his long cricketing career. Now, he will be joining   (BCB) as a curator from April 1. The former Ranji Trophy coach, who has recently resigned as curator from Vidarbha Cricket Association (VCA), is gearing up for the challenge. 
 
 The major challenge in Bangladesh would be to understand the soil. Though the weather is more or less same, the soil is different and also the colour,” Hinganikar said. 
 
 Hinganikar started his career as a curator during India-Australia match. The Jamtha wicket was praised by one and all as it provided something to everyone. 
 
 He also did a wonderful job during India-South Africa Test and   in 2010. However, he regrets about India-England Test wicket in 2012. India needed win to level the series but the wicket turned out to be a placid one. He was also not satisfied with his last assignment for Vidarbha—Irani Trophy. 
 
 When asked whether curators should be paid adequately as they are always in firing line, Hinganikar answered in affirmative. 
 
 “Absolutely. In fact, groundsmen should also get sufficient money. They are generally treated like labourers. But they are skilled labourers. Curators generally don’t get praised for good wickets but if something goes wrong, they are often criticized. 
 
 “Now, after Lodha recommendations, it’s a paid job. So things are changing. They groundsmen should also be educated,” he said. 
 
 Bangladesh board is concentrating on developing infrastructure. It will be challenging for Hinganikar, who will have to guide local curators, impart training as well as develop various grounds in various cities besides looking after the pitches and grounds. He will be stationed at Dhaka.
 
 “The curators in Bangladesh are still learning. Our main focus would be to develop the infrastructure and also to train the curators,” he said. 
 
 “The BCB also wants to start curators’ courses like BCCI. I have that responsibility along with three other curators including BCB chief curator Gamini Silva,” the Vidarbha opener, who was selected after the Indian cricket board suggested names of four curators to BCB.
 
 The former Vidarbha skipper’s pet   (PHCA) will certainly feel his absence. However, his son Prathamesh Hinganikar has come forward to handle the responsibility leaving his private job. “I want to thank him and my family for the support they have given to me throughout my career,” he said.
 
 
