KOLKATA: Summer is yet to peak but shortage in water supply has already hit a number of places in and around the city. Residents of Subhaspally at   on the southern fringes staged an agitation on Sunday to protest against water scarcity that they have been facing for long and has now aggravated. The dearth has affected highrises and slums alike, with many being forced to spend a considerable amount to buy water from outside.

 Residents blocked the main road at Subhaspally for about 30 minutes from 11.30am on Sunday, demanding the problem be solved at the earliest. They threatened to repeat a similar demonstration next Sunday if their grievance was not looked into.
 
 Residents of Subhaspally complained that supply to their neighbourhood, falling under   98 of the KMC, had been poor for years, and that the water from the Garden Reach treatment plant was not enough to meet their daily demand. They pointed out that the locality had only two taps, where most collected drinking water as well as washed their utensils. “This problem has been going on for the past five years. Earlier, water would be supplied four times a day, but now it is just twice, 40 minutes a session,” said a resident. This curtailed supply leads to chaos and fights every day, especially since those two taps were the sole sources of both drinking water and that used for washing vessels. “We have complained to the local councillor but to no avail,” said  , a resident.
 
 Another resident pointed out that more and more families were settling down in the area. As a result, the gap between demand and supply was increasing every day, he said.
 
 Even adjacent neighbourhoods faced a similar shortage. “Our apartment complex in the heart of Netaji Nagar has 26 units, where 17 families live. All of us contribute and buy water for Rs 30,000 every month. The supply is so low that we have applied to the KMC for an additional line,” said a resident of Netajinagar.
 
 Civic authorities conceded there was a shortage at areas near Raipur Road, Khanpur Road and parts of Netaji Nagar and  . “Their complaint is valid. I have informed the civic authorities about the crisis,” said ward 98 CPM councillor  . “But the agitation at Subhaspally started with a fight between two groups over drawing water from the road-side taps.”
 
 Even some neighbourhoods at   in the northern fringe of the city has been facing a similar crisis, leading to a huge demand for packaged drinking water. “We are installing two more water pumps at Baguiati to meet the demand,” said a civic official.
 
