 made kissing on screen fashionable back in the early 2000s. However, after a sensational start in Bollywood, she found fewer opportunities to show her acting chops. Today, she’s a   regular, often seen hobnobbing with A-list   actors at the   and at key events in America, apart from doing quirky roles in films across the globe. The actress, who is currently in India for a set of professional commitments, is also fronting a social cause that rehabilitates victims of child sex trafficking. In a conversation with BT, she throws light on what drove her to take up the cause, on playing strong characters and why India will take long before it gets its own #MeToo campaign. Excerpts: 

 
 Well, I’d love to be a part of 'Welcome 3'. Romancing Nana Patekar and   in the first installment was so much fun.   is a fabulous director. 
 
 
 I don’t want to shed the glamorous image just for the sake of it. I am a very bold person in real life, too. That’s part of my personality and I am comfortable with it. But having said that, I now want to veer towards performance-oriented roles, and wouldn’t even mind playing a vamp. In fact, I am obsessed with the idea of being a character actor.
 
 
 I think it’s still a struggle to find a film that is genuinely centred on a woman, though it’s getting better with the new breed of directors. The number of films written with men as the central characters is way higher. What hasn’t changed is that then and even now, people enjoy a heroine being a heroine. However, actresses like   and their choices are exemplary. They’re proving that women can hold a film on their shoulders. Also, the internet has opened a new world to all of us. Today, we have access to content from all over the world. There’s also independent cinema, which caters to the thinking mind. 
 
 
 Why not? I go, because I get invited. I had a chance to hobnob with Barack Obama (former US President) and I did. Why shouldn’t I be there? I don’t focus on detractors; what they say doesn’t matter. I focus on the happy and pleasant things in my life. In fact, it’s fun to have detractors and prove them wrong with twice the might. I feel bad when my haters become less. I don’t want their number to dwindle. You see, I’m having a ball in my life. My aim was to be economically independent; it was never to win an Oscar or a Filmfare Award. Most women in my home state (Haryana) don’t even get a chance at life. It’s a gilded cage and so, women like me who’ve managed to get out, are asked how we did it. Today, I’m just very happy that I am financially sound. I can pay my bills and afford this lifestyle. It’s a big deal given where I come from. I give myself a lot of credit for that.
 
 
 Children, especially girls, are being forced into prostitution, which leads to several other crimes. This initiative by  , among other things, educate rescued girls to become lawyers, who can then fight for themselves and other girls who are being trafficked. Merely rescuing girls is a meaningless process. When I was growing up, I had regressive experiences in childhood. I was only allowed to breathe. That’s it! I wasn’t allowed to go out or pursue hobbies. The fact that my parents could educate me is an exemplary feat on their part. I grew up in the middle of a feudal and patriarchal system. Women were subjected to unheard-of cruelties. When I had spoken openly against this, after the release of Murder (2004), it led to a backlash. At least now, we are in a position to have a conversation on these topics. But I still don’t see a movement like #MeToo happening in India because of the way people think.
 
 
 Powerful people will have to understand that if a woman is raped, it’s not her fault. They must not blame the woman. Sadly, I’ve also seen certain women practise victim-shaming and blaming. The patriarchal mindset needs to change. Having said that, it’s not just women, as a society, we have a tendency to pull each other down. People love pulling me down; they love to see me fall because it makes them feel happy and justified. 
 
 
 I am not interested in marriage. I don’t want to be a bahu, yaar! Why would I forsake the admiration of so many men for one man? It doesn’t make sense. I do have a man in my life and I am in love. The relationship is a very private aspect of my life. I have great companionship and he’s proud of my choices and my approach to life. That’s what matters…
 
