PANAJI: Goa schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) recorded near-perfect pass percentages at the Class X public exam, which made a comeback this year after a nine-year gap. So far, the best known score at the exam was 97%. Schools managements said that they were pleased with the results in a year that saw an alteration in the assessment pattern.

 
  
 
 “Until last year, the comprehensive and continuous evaluation (CCE) scheme along with optional board exam was in force, in which students were evaluated semester-wise. This year, students had to answer the exam based on entire year’s syllabus. They found it tough, yet a higher percentage cleared the exam,” the principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya I, Vasco, Kumara Mohan G, said. As many as 115 students from the school appeared for the exam and 110 cleared it.
 
 All of the 94 students who appeared from the Navy Children’s School, Chicalim, cleared the exam. “We have got 71 distinctions,” school principal Chhanda Bhattacharjee, said.
 
 Vidya Vikas Academy, Margao, also produced cent per cent results, with all 110 clearing the exam. “It was a new pattern of assessment but our students have done very well. Sixteen scored above 90%,” school principal Joble Bijoy, said.
 
 The chairman of King’s School, Margao, Melvin Pereira, was equally buoyed by the fact that all 140 students who appeared for the exam, passed, of which 90 secured distinctions.
 
 From Kendriya Vidyalaya, Bambolim, 65 appeared and 64 cleared the exam. “We have seen fewer failures this year and results have been good,” principal R A Patil said. Kendriya Vidyalaya, Ponda, had cent per cent results with all 36 clearing the exam, while Kendriya Vidyalaya, INS Mandovi, reported 72 of 75 students passing. “Twenty per cent of our students scored above 90%. Some of our top scores are 99 in Social Science and Hindi, 98 in Science, 96 in Maths, and 95 in English,” principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya, INS Mandovi, Aslam Parvez said.
 
 Sunshine School, Old Goa, saw all 52 clearing the  , school director Deepak Khaitan said. Similarly, all 64 students appearing from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV), Canacona, were declared meritorious. In JNV, Valpoi, 60 students appeared, of which three got a compartment.
 
 It was only the second batch appearing for the exam from Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan’s Narayan Bandekar School, Upasnagar, but all candidates cleared the test. “Of the 17 students that appeared, 10 got distinction and seven first class,” said school principal Elizabeth Valsan.
 
 
