Pune: Maharashtra can take some cues from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh to bring in more housing projects under the ambit of the real estate Act. 

 Madhya Pradesh has set an example for other states to follow in terms of addressing home buyers’ grievances related to structural defects and price issues involving projects, which did not need to be registered under the real estate act. 
 
 The Madhya Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MPRERA) has heard nearly 100 complaints related to unregistered projects that received completion certificates but developed structural defects within a five-year span under section 14 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016.
 
 MPRera is also hearing cases related to developers changing rates at the time of handing over possession. MPRERA chairman Anthony De Sa told TOI that the position they have taken was strictly in accordance with the rules.
 
 “We understand that future and ongoing projects come under RERA. But there are several other sections, such as 14, of RERA that can be used to hear cases related to projects that may not require registration,” he added.
 
 “Section 2 of the Act defines a real estate project without relation to registration. But it is not the only pre-requiste to come under the ambit of RERA. Registration is one of the requirements,” he added.
 
 In cases of unregistered projects, the MPRERA has slapped penalties up to Rs 10 lakh and has asked the local authorities to seize papers of the developers till their projects were registered. Currently, the MPRERA has 2,000 projects registered with it. 
 
 Mumbai Grahak Panchayat, the consumer body in Maharashtra, stated that all projects spread over 500sqm or have eight apartments should be registered and action initiated unregistered buildings. 
 
 “It’s a good initiative by MPRERA to initiate action against all such projects and catch them at the local authority level itself,” said Shirish Deshpande, chairperson of the consumer body. 
 
 The Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA) has heard 900 of the 1,800 complaints registered with it and levied Rs 50,000-Rs 10,00,000 lakh on developers for rule violations between August last year and this February. A recent assessment of the cases uploaded on the MahaRERA website stated this.
 
 
