GURUGRAM: Mayor   and other councillors raised the issue of increasing encroachments on municipal land in the city during the House meeting held on Thursday morning. They said that most of the city’s commercial areas were being encroached upon, making some of the areas completely inaccessible in case of a fire or any other emergencies.

 
 Azad said  , the oldest market in the city, was heavily encroached upon and not only car drivers but also pedestrians were finding it difficult to move in the area. “We need to introduce a system to identify the shopkeepers who rent out the space outside their shops through videography and issue heavy challans to them,” said the mayor.
 
 Many other councillors agreed with her. A few also raised the issue of shanties being built on illegally encroached land and claimed it was adding to sanitation issues in the city. 
 
 Taking on councillors’ questions and concerns about increasing encroachments,   commissioner   said that the joint commissioner would be heading an anti-encroachment drive in Sadar Bazaar this month. “As far as the other encroachments are considered, we have already formed a committee which draw up a list of encroached MCG properties and these have been classified into three categories -permanent, semi-permanent and temporary. A 72-hour long drive would soon be carried out in this regard,” said Yadav. Once freed from encroachments, these spaces will be used for public use to ensure they aren’t encroached again. 
 
 The councillors also raised issues such as shortage of water supply in their respective areas. Most of the 35 councillors reported problems such as overflowing sewer lines. MCG officials said that a plan to clean all sewer lines across the city had been made and machinery for the same had been hired. “We will ensure that sewer lines across the city are clean before monsoon arrives so that residents don’t face issues,” said Yadav.
 
 Highlighting the dog menace in the city, councillor Seem Pahuja tabled a proposal for building dog sheds in all wards. 
 
