MALDA: Chief minister   on Friday called up the 36-year-old widow of  , the presiding officer whose mutilated body was found near railway tracks in Raiganj a day after the Monday polling. The chief minister assured her of a government job, an ex-gratia payment of Rs 5 lakh and family pension and repeatedly assured her of a comprehensive CID probe. 

 The CM spoke to Arpita for several minutes in the afternoon. It had its effect. Arpita - and her family - gave up their demand of not receiving Ray's body unless they get the detailed post mortem report. Arpita, who had lodged a murder complaint before, had apprehended that the administration might alter the post mortem report. 
 
 Assured by the CM, Arpita received the body of her husband and decided to take it to her in-laws' home in Siliguri's Phansidewa. 
 
 Hemnanta Ray, Arpita's brother-in-law, said, "My 72-year-old father Priyanath Ray is eager to see my brother for the last time. Moreover, we were assured that post mortem report would not be changed." Arpita, on her way to Siliguri, told TOI that the chief minister had personally assured her all possible help. "Apart from sanctioning Rs 5 lakh immediately, she assured us that we will get the compensation SEC was to give. She promised me of family pension and a government job. Moreover, she assured that proper investigation into my husband's death would be done. I have faith on her and have agreed to receive the body." 
 
 Ray (42), who was a government school teacher at Rahatpur High Madrasa, had been deployed as a presiding officer at the Sonapur Basic School poll booth at Itahar under Raiganj subdivision, North Dinajpur. He went missing from election duty and his body was found a day later on the railway tracks near Sonadangi off Raiganj. Ray's wife had lodged a police complaint alleging that her husband was "kidnapped from the polling booth and murdered".
 
 The CID team has already begun its probe, interrogating the victim's wife, the doctors who had done the post mortem and visiting the place where Ray's body was found.
 
 
