Coimbatore: The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has said that it cannot adjudicate on the rejection of a resolution plan of a company facing corporate insolvency resolution process under IBC (Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code).  NCLT’s Ahmedabad bench has held that once a resolution plan is rejected by the committee of creditors (COC) on the ground that it does not meet the criteria nothing can be done by the adjudicating authority to interfere with the decision. Initially, the COC did not accept the resolution plan submitted by a director of Steel Konnect, which is facing bankruptcy, on the ground that under Section 29A of the IBC the promoter/director is ineligible for being a resolution applicant.  Later, an asset reconstruction company (ARC) placed a resolution plan with the COC, which was also rejected on the ground that it was submitted without obtaining the information memorandum and without signing non-disclosure agreement.  It was found that the resolution plan had contained info which was not available in the information memorandum. Moreover, it was found that it did not meet the criteria contained in the information memorandum.  “There is no express provision in the IBC, 2016 that gives authority to the adjudicating authority to sit over judgement on the resolution of the COC in rejecting a resolution plan,” NCLT said.  “No provision is made in the IB Code or in the rules or in the regulations that would enable or enjoin upon the adjudicating authority to sit over the resolution of the COC in rejecting a particular resolution plan,” it said. “Therefore, this adjudicating authority is of the considered view that it has no authority or jurisdiction to interfere with resolution of the COC in rejecting the resolution plan,” NCLT’s Bikki Raveendra Babu and Manorama Kumari said.  “In sum and substance, the NCLT appears to have concluded that there is no provision in the IBC conferring power to decide validity of rejection of the resolution plan,” said K S Ravichandran, managing partner, KSR&Co., Company Secretaries.  “If you look at the amendments to the IBC, it is clearly stated that under Section 25 that the resolution professional is entitled to invite prospective resolution applicants to submit a resolution plan or plans. Therefore rejection is possible,” he said.  “The question is why the adjudicating authority should not examine the validity of the rejection if it is shown to it that the resolution plan submitted by persons eligible to act as ‘Resolution Applicants’ is beneficial to the stakeholders,” Ravichandran asked.