Vijayawada/Visakhapatnam:   leaders on Saturday lashed out at TDP MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna over his remarks on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during Chandrababu Naidu’s fast in Vijayawada on Friday.

 Former minister and BJP MLA P Manikyala Rao said Balakrishna’s remarks against the Prime Minister were highly objectionable and can attract criminal cases. 
 
 He said the BJP would also seek legal action against the TDP MLA for the derogatory remarks. He wondered why the chief minister remained silent when the MLA was making such remarks against the country’s PM.
 
 He also took strong exception to the chief minister’s fast for which money was spent from the state exchequer, alleging that the government lost more than Rs 200 crore revenue on the day due to the fast and diversion of APSRTC buses. 
 
 The administration was crippled for more than a week in preparing for the fast, he said.
 
 Referring to Janasena chief Pawan Kalyan’s allegations against the government and media channels, the former minister demanded that the government order a judicial probe into the charges.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP floor leader P Vishnu Kumar Raju and MLC P V N Madhav met governor E S L Narasimhan in Visakhapatnam and submitted a representation seeking action against Balakrishna. The BJP leaders briefed the speech of Balakrishna wherein he made abusive remarks against the PM. The BJP leaders expressed confidence that the governor would look into the video clips of Balakrishna’s speech and take necessary action. They further said the party would also initiate legal action against the MLA.
 
 Madhav and Raju said Balakrishna mentioned in his speech that the PM should be thrashed. “Being an MLA, he should know what to speak, but he crossed decency limits. Not only should Balakrishna be disqualified as MLA, the chief minister should also arrest him for making such derogatory remarks against the country’s Prime Minister while holding public office,” they demanded.
 
 Meanwhile, senior BJP leader and former Union minister U V Krishnam Raju condemned the allegations levelled by chief minister Naidu that South India has been neglected by the Modi government. 
 
 Stating that the South Indian states have excelled in all sectors during Modi’s rule, Raju advised Naidu to not threaten national integrity for his own selfish political benefits.
 
 He said the state GDP index in all the five South Indian states — Tamil Nadu (2nd position), Karnataka (5th), AP (7th), Telangana (8th) and Kerala(11th) — was better than other Indian states.
 
 In Hyderabad, BJP leaders held a protest at Balakrishna’s residence in Jubilee Hills area. The BJP activists tried to stop the MLA who was proceeding home. The activists sought an open apology from the MLA, which he refused. The police had to be called to help him enter his house.
 
 
