PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor   is likely to hold a special class for vice-chancellors (VC) of different universities on Tuesday.

 
 Sources said the   would inquire from the VCs about the implementation of various decisions taken at the previous meetings held at the   in the past few months.
 
 While most universities have successfully conducted elections to their respective students’ union as per the chancellor’s directive, several other decisions like introduction of biometric attendance for teachers, research scholars and non-teaching staff, framing academic and examination calendars and regularizing academic sessions are yet to be implemented. The universities had also been directed to take necessary steps for improving the quality of research, timely payment of retirement benefits to university teachers and staff, strengthening of grievance redressal cells, enforcement of financial discipline, getting colleges and universities accredited by the   and promotion of sports and cultural activities. They were asked to construct toilets attached to the girls’ common rooms in all the colleges.
 
 So far, hardly any university has been able to prepare the blueprints for execution of all these decisions within the time frame. The chancellor will take stock of the universities’ progress on these fronts at the review meeting on Tuesday.
 
 Meanwhile, the chancellor’s secretariat is learnt to have finalized the uniform ordinance and regulations of the choice-based credit system (CBCS) to be implemented at the postgraduate level in all universities of the state from the new academic session commencing in July. The courses of studies in different subjects based on CBCS have reportedly been prepared by different universities and are likely to be vetted by committees of subject experts at the Raj Bhavan soon.
 
 The VCs are also likely to discuss the progress made in the conduct of combined entrance test for admission to the two-year BEd course in all the teachers’ training colleges of the state. Besides, the issues of distribution of assets and liabilities between the new universities and their parent universities are also likely to be discussed at the review meet.
 
 
