JODHPUR: Fate of the industries in Jodhpur, causing irreversible damage to the environment because of toxic effluents, hangs in balance with the decision of the   (NGT) awaited on Tuesday. A report submitted by the court commissioner appointed by the  , further to the imposition of the cost of Rs 10 lakhs on the government of Rajasthan, to ascertain the ground realities has found glaring deficiencies in compliance of NGT’s directions.

 
 “Large-scale irregularities have been found by the commissioner, including huge difference between the submissions by the officials in the tribunal from time-to-time and surprise visits and the claims of the affected villagers,” said  , counsel for the petitioner, the gram panchayat of village Araba in Jodhpur.
 
 This industrial effluent is entering the fields of villages around Jodhpur, that are used for agriculture and drinking/human consumption. This effluent, laden with heavy metals and toxic chemicals, is going to wreak havoc in terms of rising incidents of cancer and other diseases and travel to Jodhpur, where it will affect production of vegetables, fruits and grain grown in these areas and pollute underground water.
 
 The NGT had sought a status report on common effluent treatment plants (CETPs), sewage treatment plants (STPs) and industrial pollution in Jojari river from Jodhpur to Balotra. The tribunal had appointed  , professor & dean, civil engineering department of BITS-Pilani as the court commissioner for the purpose.
 
 Singh said that in his 185 pages report, the court commissioner had recommended closure of all the industries until all the directions are complied with by removing all the deficiencies. “The tribunal would be deciding on this report on the next hearing scheduled on May 29,” Singh said.
 
 The report, while raising questions on the integrity of the pollution control board, administration and trust, has pointed to glaring deficiencies like treatment plant not treating water properly, much of the untreated water making its way directly into the river, tampered and non-functional flow meters, illegal industries and many more.
 
 It may be noted that there are about 400 textile units and 100 steel units in Jodhpur, which are connected with the Jodhpur Pradushan Nivaran Trust. The CETP installed here as a capacity to treat 20 MLD effluent but only 10-12 MLD effluent is reaching the plant and the rest is making its way direct to the river leading to severe pollution.
 
 Illegal or unregistered units have further worsened the situation, which are neither connected with the CETP nor registered under the trust, hence causing direct damage to the ecology.
 
