THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State police chief   has asked all police officers to strengthen the enforcement of traffic regulations and reduce road accident in Kerala by 25% over the next three years. He added that a 10% reduction must be achieved this year itself.   specifically instructed his men to behave politely, in a decent manner, while conducting traffic checks. 

 In his directive to all police officers that emphasized on   and  , Behera said that number of road accidents had come down in 2017 with the installation of traffic surveillance cameras on national highways. Since the number of accidents on state highways has increased, he asked his officers to strengthen traffic rule enforcement on roads other than highways.
 
 "Compared to 2016, there was an increase of around 3,000 accident cases (other than national or state highways) in 2017. The increase was seen in the case of two-wheelers that constitute around 60% of the total cases. Police have to concentrate primarily on two-wheeler safety," Behera said.
 
 While the number of accidents during the day came down last year, a substantial increase was seen in the accidents that occurred at night or early morning hours. While accident cases involving trucks and jeeps declined, cases involving mini-buses have gone up. We need to rein in the speeding parallel services, he added.
 
 Behera instructed the police to ensure total implementation of helmet rule, with special emphasis on wearing chin straps. Additionally, police were told to ensure strict enforcement of the seatbelt rule for four-wheelers, particularly on national and state highways.
 
 Strict action will be initiated in cases of drunken driving and driving under influence of drugs. A zero tolerance policy against drunken driving will be followed. Strict enforcement of lane discipline (on four-lane highways and roads) will be enforced, after proper lane marking. Also, police have been instructed to do away with all unauthorized parking and illegal extension of shops on roads by joining hands with revenue and local authorities.
 
 
