 ZOO: India’s longest walk-in aviary or a ‘walk with feathered friends’ was opened to the public on Wednesday at  . The first phase of the aviary, inaugurated by Punjab forests and wildlife preservation minister  , showcases 32 species of indigenous and exotic birds housed in five different thematic exhibits —Terrestrial, Rock & Duck, Woodland, Japanese Trail and Rainforest. 

 This aviary is a 300m long walk. Of the four such aviaries in Indian zoos, the nearest to Chhatbir in length is the one at Mysore at 80 metres. With the birds been provided in a more natural habitat consistent with the evolving concept of zoological parks, bird enthusiasts get to view and photograph birds up and close without cages and grills separating them from the winged delights. The grouping of birds by way of species’ mix in the five thematic sections has been undertaken thoughtfully and with utmost care as some bird species prey on others or gobble their eggs or chicks. The aviary has already registered successful breeding of the painted stork, intermediate egret and white ibis.
 
 The attraction of a walk-in aviary would be immense for parents wanting their children to observe their feathered friends at a close range, learn their names and have glimpses of their behaviour. In fact, some of the red jungle-fowl have got so bold and familiar with humans that they sit on the railings of the viewer gallery. On the request of mediapersons, Dharamsot adopted a pair of black partridges to ward off criticism that the adoption scheme had not really taken off with few sponsors coming forward.
 
 “Initially, in the guise of a pilot project, we will allow groups of people to go in manageable numbers. But they will be separated by a time gap. We will evaluate the desirability of a nominal entry fee for the aviary. An information centre, guides and boards will provide viewers with educative insights into the lives of the birds. We would like to have visitors who are genuinely fond of birds so that they observe the decorum of the aviary. Chhatbir attracts seven lakh visitors per year and the aviary will boost its attraction,” principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) (wildlife) Dr   told TOI.
 
 The five golden principles detailed for aviary visitors by the zoo management are —(i) do not disturb birds (ii) keep noise levels low (iii) do not attempt to feed birds (iv) watch your step and wear appropriate footwear and (v) help the zoo management by keeping the aviary clean via dispersal of litter in designated bins. In return for maintaining the sanctity of the aviary, viewers can observe such exotic and gorgeous birds as the black swan or wetland species like the black-necked stork, white stork and painted stork without having to travel to a distant wetland and trudge through miles of mud and water.
 
 The department’s plan is to extend the aviary in the next two phases by incorporating the evolving pheasantry and introduce a section with flightless birds like the ostrich, emu, cassowary and rhea. The planned species count in the next couple of years is to house 80-100 species in the aviary. “The execution of the following two phases would take the aviary to 400m-500m in length. The first phase has been verified at each step by multi-level checks going up to the level of PCCF (wildlife). In the first phase, we have also introduced the conservation breeding of the house sparrow or ‘caring for uncared’ birds. Sparrows bred in the zoo can reinforce re-introduction of the species,” the field director of Chhatbir zoo, M Sudhagar, told TOI.
 
 The avian-human interface in the aviary is restrained by essential safety measures to guard against harm to either. Bird lovers who have visited Singapore’s iconic   or viewed it on digital social media would have an idea of what is entailed by a sojourn in a walk-in aviary.
 
 Golden Rules
 
 The five golden principles detailed for aviary visitors by the zoo management are:
 
 (i) Do not disturb birds
 
 (ii) Keep noise levels low
 
 (iii) Do not attempt to feed birds
 
 (iv) Watch your step and wear appropriate footwear
 
  (v) Keep the aviary clean via dispersal of litter in designated bins
 
 
