CHANDIGARH: “Do not pass your anxiety on to your kids.” This is what the private and government schools have been telling the parents of Class X students, who are approaching the school authorities and counselors with queries on how to make their children sit for a longer duration, increase concentration, and make them serious about studies.

 On one hand, when the schools are asking the children to take it easy, on the other hand, the parents are worried that their children are not giving enough time to the studies. This has left many children in a stressful situation. Taking this situation into consideration, the school authorities have now started counseling parents too.
 
  
  
 
 “We have got cases where parents approached us even when the child has got only a mark less. They are worried about the child’s performance. They want them to study all the time but this is not going to help. Through counseling, we are trying to tell them that it is the quality time the children need to give and not the quantity. Parents of Class X students are more worried,” said  , principal, Hansraj Public School, Panchkula.
 
 Ritu Bali, principal, AKSIPS School, Sector 41, Chandigarh, said some of the students are under a lot of stress. “I know a mother, who refuses to send the kid to school. She has hired a home tutor for the child and is self-monitoring the child’s education. We have failed to convince her to send the child to school. Students are coming to school stressed. I am talking to them on a regular basis and asking them to relax. We are telling parents that scolding won’t help the kids at this stage,” said Bali.
 
 According to school authorities, parents are the best stress relievers. However, at present, the situation is not the same. “After the recent examination, many parents came to us and said that their children are not giving enough time and that is why their marks are dropping. Most of these parents are those who do not pay attention when the child was not studying. It is very important to understand this is not the last examination in the life of a student,” said a principal requesting anonymity.
 
 So, what do the stressed-out parents need to do? According to Bali, it is important for the parents to sit with the kids while they are studying. “This will boost their moral. They can read a book or the newspaper. By doing this, they can create a positive environment for children to sit and study. They can sacrifice a bit of their social life so that the children also don’t feel distracted,” said Bali.
 
 Rehmat Singh Chawla, a Class X student of Learning Paths School, Mohali, said that it’s becoming difficult to tackle the problem of stress, which is associated with the board exams. “We are already stressed out and to add to our problems, every single person including our parents, are warning us about the  . Sitting for an examination in a different school is not something we are used to. It’s a different experience for us,” said Chawla.
 
 Meanwhile, city schools have been organising special sessions for parents where the authorities are sharing tips on how to tackle stressed out kids during examination.  , principal, Chitkara International School, said, “We share with them different ways in which the child can study. We also share general academic guidance so that the child gets the same set of instruction at home and in school.”
 
 Sahiba Kukreja, a parent of a Class X student, said, “We are trying to remain calm. But with my son in Class X and my daughter preparing for Class XII boards, we do get agitated when we see that they are not studying enough. Going by the increase in cut-offs in the last few years, it is mandatory for any child to score well or else they will not get admission in a good college.
 
