‘PSPK 25’ aka ‘Agnyaathavaasi’ starring  , Keerthy Suresh and Anu Emmanuel in lead roles released on January 10. 

 Directed by Trivikram Srinivas and featuring music by Anirudh Ravichander, the film is one of the most-awaited ones this year. Kickstarting the year with a bang and banking on being a Sankranti release, the Powerstar fans do not need reasons to watch this film really. But for the rest, before ‘Agnyaathavaasi’ aka ‘Agathavaasi’ movie review comes out, we give you five reasons why you should watch it: 
 
 
 : 
  
 
 
 This one’s a given, with Pawan Kalyan being the lead, there’s really no other reason needed for many. Starring and making his presence felt in films like ‘Tholi Prema’, ‘Thammudu’, ‘Kushi’, ‘Panja’, ‘Gabbar Singh’ and more, Pawan Kalyan is a versatile actor who has through the years, gained the moniker of ‘Powerstar’ and a massive fan base. While the trailer and teaser hint at nothing much, it is a given that this film will be memorable due to him. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Pawan Kalyan and director Trivikram Srinivas are a deadly combo, making two memorable films together so far. Be it is the 2008 ‘Jalsa’ or the 2013 ‘Attarintiki Daredi’, the films have upped the expectations for this one. The pair’s last outing had been a massive hit, with both critics and audience loving the film. ‘Attarintiki Daredi’ also made a killing at the box office, making one anxious as to how this one will fare. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Any content put out by the team of ‘Agnathavasi’ has made a killing on YouTube. The trailer reached 8.2M views and counting in two days, the teaser crossed 14M views in three weeks. And while the jukebox has comparatively less views with 3.2M in 2 weeks, Pawan Kalyan’s special song for his fans ‘Kodakaa Koteswar Rao’ touched 11M views in a week. However, Anirudh Ravichander has done an outstanding job with the OST of the film with ‘Gaali Vaaluga’, ‘Baitikochi’ and ‘Swagatham Krishna’ standing out. Anirudh had even released a colourful tribute video for the star with ‘Gaali Vaaluga’, much to the delight of fans.
 
 
 : 
 
 
 Speculations were rife that ‘Agnyaathavaasi’ was a ‘freemake’ of the French film ‘Largo Winch’ directed by Jerome Salle. ‘Largo Winch’ charts the journey of a billionaire heir who as secretly adopted. The heir sets out to prove his legitimacy after his father’s death and find his father’s killers. Due to ‘Agnyaathavaasi’s tagline, the film was speculated to be based on the film. A music label, which owns the rights for the remake had even planned on suing the makers for Rs 15 Cr. The director even posted on his social media that he’s curious to watch the film now. While the story has not been revealed much in both the teaser and the trailer, it remains to be seen what ‘Agnyaathavaasi’ is all about. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Keerthy Suresh has made a mark for herself in the industry, so has Anu Emmanuel. While Keerthy Suresh’s acting chops and Anu Emmanuel’s glamour are looked forward to, it remains to be seen if the ladies will hold their own in the film, like Samantha did in ‘Attarintiki Daredi’. No matter their screen time, the ladies are sure to wow the audience away! 
 
 Watch this space of critic review of ' ' aka 'Agnatavasi'.
 
 Meanwhile, Celebs and audience have started tweeting about Agnathavasi.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ALSO READ: 
 
 
