NEW DELHI: Following the death of a seven-year-old and injuries to 17 others in a school   accident, Delhi government plans to introduce more stringent rules to rein in the vehicles being illegally used as school transport. The government feels that the provisions of the guidelines formulated in 2007 had become outdated. Schools also must be made responsible for monitoring the private vans that ferry their students.

 “To begin with, we will not only levy a fine of Rs 5,000 on vans violating rules and plying without permits, but also impound such vehicles for three months,” K K Dahiya, special commissioner (transport), told TOI. “We are planning to bring structural changes in the Delhi Motor Vehicle Rules to allow more stringent action.”
 
 
  
 
 The transport department is expected to begin a crackdown on private vans illegally plying as school vans from Wednesday and take action against autorickshaws dong the same. Dahiya, however, said that with just 20 enforcement teams, the transport department alone cannot keep a check on the thousands of illegal school vans plying in the city and the traffic cops would also have to take up the responsibility of prosecution.
 
 The department also wants the schools to ensure that only registered vans carry students to and from schools. “School managements cannot discount their role and say that a student’s safety is their responsibility only within the boundary walls of the school,” said Dahiya. The department wants school principals to see that the vans properly display the name and contact details of the school whose students they are carrying and to sensitise parents on the risks of sending their children to school in illegal vans.
 
 The school principals, while pleading that they could not be held responsible for the use of private vans by parents, claimed that, following Supreme Court directions, they retained copies of the permits and licences of the vehicles and the drivers. “We have always been against private cabs, and continually discourage parents from using them, but more than a thousand students in our school take these cabs,” said Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, Rohini. “We take down the driver details, and hold regular orientation sessions with parents, but there also need to be clear guidelines for parents and cab drivers.”
 
 Geeta Gangwani, principal of Bal Bharati Public School, Rohini, added, “We also encourage one parent to travel with the children in the van, but beyond that we cannot take responsibility. Our own buses have a teacher and an attendant with the students. We cannot allot a teacher to private vans.” Gangwani, however, said that the school is ready to do whatever the directorate of education asks them on the basis of the transport department policies.
 
 The responsibility for the safety of the children lies, of course, with the school principal, but rules should be changed to rope in parents and make them responsible for the use of unauthorised cabs and to inform the schools of changes in transport routines, said Arora.
 
 Sadhana Bhalla, president of National Progressive Schools’ Conference, an association of private schools, recognised that schools faced a challenge in keeping track of illegal vans. “It is a challenge, for example, to keep track of the frequently changing drivers of a certain van, unless the parents bring it to our notice,” she said.   was also of the opinion that a parent should travel with children in such an arrangement. “While we do not want to abdicate responsibility, parents must also share the responsibility in this matter,” she suggested.
 
 Last year, the transport department, in its crackdown on unpermitted school vans, prosecuted 750 vehicles and gave the operators till January this to get the cars registered as school vans. However, only 4,631 vehicles have been registered as such till date.
 
 
