BHOPAL: Wednesday could turn out be a busy day at the state   office. Senior leaders, including chief of AICC communications cell Randeep Surjewala, AICC general secretary Deepak Babaria,   Jyotiraditya Scindia and state Congress chief Arun Yadav are scheduled to arrive at the office.

 While, it is expected that Surjewala may announce the names of new party spokespersons, Yadav and Scindia would be addressing a presser and Babaria will be chairing organisational meetings.
 
 The state Congress office had received over 900 applications after which a talent hunt was conducted on February 7 and 8 to find appropriate candidates to lead the party’s social media activities in the state, spokesmen for district Congress offices and RTI activists.
 
 State Congress president Arun Yadav and   would be jointly addressing a press conference after the party’s victory in Mungaoli and Kolaras assembly seats. The meeting with the media has been slotted for as early as 10 am, after which, Scindia will leave for his constituency. The leaders are likely to launch a scathing attack on the ruling   government, sources in the party said. Later, Scindia will fly to Mungaoli and Kolaras for various functions.
 
 AICC general secretary Deepak Babaria would be conducting organisational meetings related to the selection process of party candidates for the upcoming assembly elections. State party leaders would also strategize the planned ‘BJP Quit India’ protest scheduled for March 12, outside the state assembly.
 
 Meanwhile, State Congress leaders were in New Delhi till late evening hours awaiting a decision on the single seat to the Upper House of Parliament from the state. State Congress office said that AICC president is expected to return to New Delhi by Tuesday evening. “If he reaches and sits for a meeting with the state leaders, then a decision on the Rajya Sabha candidate could be taken,” a senior Congress leader told TOI. Chances are that the candidate for Rajya Sabha would also be announced on Wednesday or Thursday. 
 
 
