CHANDIGARH: All tall claims of cops of providing full security in the night fell flat as bike-borne miscreants robbed and snatched mobiles and cash from two persons on Tuesday night. The miscreants stole a mobile phone from a person and snatched a mobile and cash from an elderly man at knife point in same night. Both the incidents were reported within three hours and from the Sector 36 police station area. Overall, there have been 97 cases of snatching: 78 in Chandigarh, 15 in Panchkula and 4 in  .

 As per the information, the first incident of robbery was reported near the local court at around 12.45 am. In his complaint, Harbhajan Singh, 72, a resident of phase-3 B1, Mohali, reported that he was going to pick his son from   round about on his Activa scooter. As he reached Sector 43, three accused on one bike hit his scooter and he fell on the ground. The accused snatched his mobile phone and cash of Rs 7,500 from him and fled. Later,   reported the matter to the police and cops from sector -36 police station reached the spot and carried out search operation in the area but accused could not be arrested. They also registered a snatching case against three unknown persons and started invesitigation.
 
 The second incident was reported from the village dividing road of Sectors 42/53 at around 3.30 am. The complainant  , a resident of Sangrur, Punjab told he returned from Dehradun and was going to friends’ room at Sector 15. Three goons on two bikes first hit him with his bike and injured him. One of the accused put a knife on his neck and robbed his mobile phone. After robbing Bhupinder, the accused fled from the spot. With the help of passersby, Baljinder informed the police about the incident. Cops from sector 36 and 39 police station reached the spot. Police took him to GMSH-16 for treatment. On Wednesday, Baljinder was discharged from hospital after first aid.
 
  , SSP UT police, told that Sector 36 police have registered two cases of snatching and robbery on the statements of the victims and started a probe. Police are scrutinising the CCTV footage near the crime scene to get a clue of the accused. No arrests have been made
 
