KOLKATA: The state has directed the amusement parks in Bidhannagar area to suspend all sporting and adventure activities the moment a squall or rain starts. The order comes two days after 12 children were injured, five of them critically, when an inflatable ride-—Bouncy Castle as it was called—at   in New Town was swept off in a storm on Sunday evening and hurled to the ground. The five are still in hospital, with the condition of a three-year-old child being extremely serious.

 
  
  
 
 Following the incident, Eco Park was shut for a day and reopened on Tuesday without the rides.
 
 The Bidhannagar Commissionerate wrote to   and Eco Park on Tuesday afternoon, telling them to immediately suspend joyrides—even boat rides, cycling and water sports—at the very onset of a storm, norwester or heavy rain. The letter also directed them to review their precautionary measures and standard operating procedures while conducting sporting, adventure and entertainment activities. “We have sent a clear instruction to the authorities to suspend all the joyrides at the onset of a storm or rain. Safety comes first. After what happened at Eco Park, we cannot take any more chances. We have asked them to review their safety and precautionary measures to ensure the standard operating procedures are followed in case of an emergency,” said  , deputy commissioner (headquarters), Bidhannagar Commissionerate. A senior officer pointed out that they would hold surprise inspections at the two amusement parks under its jurisdiction to ensure safety procedures were being followed round the year.
 
 Officials at Eco Park said they would abide by the norms when the rides resume after the end of the internal inquiry. “We usually follow all the necessary standard operating procedures. In fact, as we realized that a stormn was brewing around 7pm on Sunday, we stopped the water sports and refunded tickets, worth Rs 3,500. But still, the accident at the inflatable ride happened. We will be more careful in future,” said a park official.
 
 The warning to Nicco Park is not without reason as in August, 2012, a water slide there had collapsed from a height of 18ft, with about 20 youngsters on it. None was, however, seriously injured.
 
 Pointing out that they had been following the standard safety protocol for years, Nicco Park authorities agreed to abide by the norms directed in the letter. “At the onset of a storm, we suspend our water slides. In case of lighting, thunderstorm or heavy rain, we suspend all our electrically operated rides, like Cyclone, Water Coaster, Water Chute and Ropeway,” said  , general manager, human resource at Nicco Park. He added they also suspend boating during thundershowers as the vessels can be swept away from the shore, causing accident and panic. “We already abide by the norms stipulated by the cops. But we will surely review our safety operations and will be more alert, especially after the recent accident.”
 
  
  
 
