In the last few months,   hasn’t had any time to spend at his home in Delhi, so even a day’s visit to the city recently helped him break the monotony of shooting a daily soap. The actor was here to attend an IPL match at  . “It was after years that I saw a cricket match. I used to play cricket when I was in college, but I was better at basketball and football, so I spent more time on those games. More than watching the game, I am excited that I got to come to Delhi,” said Zain, who is popular for playing Neil on the   ‘Naamkarann’.

  
  
 
  The actor started his career from modelling in Delhi and later moved to Mumbai, hoping to “work on my own terms and conditions.” “I even had a corporate job once, but I would often end up fighting with my manager, as I wanted to work on my own terms. After a brief stint in marketing, I shot for a documentary film and did a few ad commercials before trying my luck in TV shows. I decided to do TV shows because it was not easy to survive in Mumbai by just doing ad films. After working in two shows, I now feel that I have made some space for myself in the industry. People recognise me and I can finally keep my conditions before the producers, like I would want my own vanity van and not shoot for more than 12 hours a day,” the actor tells us.
 
  
  Zain Imam
 
  Zain might have gotten popular through shows like ‘Naamkarann’ and ‘Tashan-e-Ishq’, but he is looking forward to doing finite series in future. “As the name suggests, daily soap, it is actually like sabun ki tarah ghisna. Even when ‘Naamkarann’ was being offered to me, I denied doing it and only agreed when I came to know that   would be the frontrunner of this show. After this, I will definitely look forward to doing finite series, where the story is not dragged on depending on a character’s popularity in the show,” says Zain. When asked if he will be soon making his foray into Bollywood, he says, “I don’t know that yet, but I will try my luck only if something with good content comes my way.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
