VELLORE: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption ( ),  , has filed a case against former director of physical education and registrar (in-charge) A Amuldoss for malpractice in appointing principals to the constituent colleges of  .

 Sources in the special wing said they have registered a case against Amuldoss under the provisions of sections 15, 13 (1) (f), 13 (2) of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 for criminal misconduct. They have also invoked sections 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code against him, said sources privy to the investigation.
 
 Although the case was registered on January 17, Amuldoss was suspended much earlier by the university for indulging in malpractice. In the suspension order, registrar (in-charge) of the university V Peruvalluthi said the special syndicate held on March 30 last year resolved to suspend Amuldoss with immediate effect. It also contemplated an inquiry into allegations regarding misappropriation of funds.
 
 Preliminary inquiry by the DVAC found that Amuldoss, who was holding the additional charge of registrar between September 21, 2015 and July 27, 2016, had abused his position. The university had called for interview for the posts of principal of the six constituent colleges at Tirupattur, Thiruvennainallur, Kallakuruchi, Tirupattur and Tittagudi. A total of 52 had applied for the seats. The scrutiny committee of the varsity certified and called 39 candidates for interview. Of them, 28 appeared.
 
 P Bama was selected for the principal post of the college in Tirupattur. However, Amuldoss manipulated the records and issued an appointment order to waiting list candidate G Venkatesan. “He also communicated to the selected candidate (Bama) that she was not selected. When she raised the issue and approached the higher authorities he flip-flopped and reissued the appointment order to Bama. He did all this without the knowledge of the syndicate,” said a police officer in the investigation team.
 
 Amuldoss is also facing another case for embezzling the university’s fund to the tune of Rs 4 lakh by submitting fake bills. He submitted bills covering travel expenses and accommodations for fictitious entities. “He even forced a few university people to sign the documents,” said the police officer adding that Amuldoss submitted the fake bills as director of physical education and then as registrar approved them.
 
 A source in the university said Amuldoss the two cases were the tip off an iceberg. “He was the director of physical education since 2007 and also holding additional charges of multiple postings. The DVAC should probe all the transactions and expenditure covering his entire tenure,” said an official in the university.
 
 
