 was shocked when the security officials at the   told him he cannot enter the premises with his friend. Not just Praveen, several other unmarried couples were turned away with no specific reason or justification.

 The security officials said that they had received strict orders that unmarried couples should not be allowed inside the park. "Fed-up with the couples using the park as their hiding and recreation area, the university has come up with this rule. We initially tried to put up rules and regulations such as seeking their ID proofs and asking details such as phone numbers. Despite all that, couples continued to behave inappropriately causing a lot of discomfort to other visitors. Students and families have also complained many times," said M  , professor and head of the floriculture department.
 
 While there is no written rule, it is an invisible rule. "The security guard told me that even if I was married I would not be allowed inside. Only couples with children were allowed. This is ridiculous. I had once gone with a male friend at 8 am on a Saturday morning. We both wanted to ideate for our new venture. But again, we were turned away. Even though I was with a male partner," said Harris, an IAS aspirant.
 
 The youngsters said that if the university had an issue with unmarried couples, they should either ensure better security or set up   cameras. "Restricting entry into a public place is completely illegal," said a student.
 
 The park opens at 8 am and closes at 11.15 am for the public. Again visitors are allowed from 2.30 pm to 4.45 pm. "The timings are very odd. We are environmentalists undertaking studies on butterflies and other insects. Butterflies come out only after 10 am. So within an hour, we were asked to leave," said a butterfly watcher.
 
 Officials at the university said that the decision was taken after a police case was registered due to some unmarried couples. "Arguments led to quarrels once between couples and some visitors. A police case was also registered and after that we decided to do this. This park is primarily for research and academic work. For recreation, we have no choice but have restricted entry," said M Kannan.
 
 
