Surat: A 35-year-old diamond polisher attempted suicide in the waiting lounge on the ground floor of the police commissioner’s office on Wednesday,   

 A resident of Puna Vijay Savani consumed phenyl. He was taken to the New Civil Hospital (NCH), where his condition is stated to be normal. Savani also posted a message ‘Chello Divas’ (last day) on his Facebook wall. He arrived at the police commissioner’s office at around 11 am and attempted suicide by consuming the phenyl. 
 
 Savani alleged in his application that he had paid Rs 5 lakh cash to Vaju Katrodiya, his sons — Milan and Vimal —and partner Vaibhav Munjpara for a house in Velanja. Savani was assured complete loan on the house, but it was rejected. Later, Savani demanded Rs 5 lakh back, but the developers refused.
 
 Savani had submitted two applications to the superintendent of police, Surat district, in 2017, but no action was taken. Later, Savani sat on an indefinite fast in October 2017 in Kapodara. Savani went to Olpad police station to register an offence, but the then police inspector K D Rathod refused to register his complaint.
 
 Meanwhile, Savani started sharing details of the cheating with him on social media. A police constable Ashwin Dangar of Sarthana police station contacted Savani and threatened him with dire consequences if he did not stop defaming Katrodiya. Dangar also said that he could frame him in any case.
 
 Savani alleged in his application that he was booked for extortion attempt of Rs 2 crore from Katrodiya in Sarthana police station on April 22. He blamed Sarthana police inspector N D Chaudhary for registering the offence.
 
 Savani held the cops and Katrodiya responsible for his suicide attempt. 
 
 “I am yet to go in detail about the allegations levelled by the person, but I will find out the details and necessary actions will be taken,” superintendent of police, Surat, Mahesh Naik said.
 
 “The person who attempted suicide has been booked in two cases in Surat city and district. He has some monetary dispute in which police cannot register complaint and it is a civil matter,” city police commissioner Satish Sharma said.
 
 
