JAIPUR: A holy trip to   dargah ended on a tragic note for 54-year-old man who was electrocuted while boarding 12215 Delhi Sarai Rohilla-Bandra Garib Rath at   railway station on Monday evening.

 One more passenger suffered burn injuries after he too got in contact with the electrical panel in the compartment.
 
 An inquiry has been ordered and the commissioner, railway safety, who was coincidentally in Ajmer, will conduct the same.
 
 According to railway authorities, the man, identified as  , was boarding coach G-14 at 4.15 pm when the   reached Ajmer station. 
 
 Passengers in the train heard loud screams and found the two men, Nazim and another, identified as  , who had fainted.
 
 “Both sustained burn injuries and were rushed to the nearby hospital where Nazim succumbed to injuries. It appears that they had touched the electric panel close to the entrance of the compartment. The matter is under investigation and an inquiry has been ordered to find out the cause of death and check if there is some technical snag in the electric panel,” said a senior officer of the Ajmer division of the   (NWR).
 
 Sushil Chandra, commissioner, railway safety, who was coincidently in Ajmer for the inspection of the Chittorgarh-Ajmer electrification work, will probe the matter.
 
 “The incident also caused a delay as the wagon in which the incident took place was replaced with another one. The train finally departed at 7.15 pm for Bandra,” said Tarun Jain, chief public relations officer, NWR while talking to TOI.
 
 Passengers travelling in the G-14 compartment were scared after the incident. “The wagon was removed and they were all shifted to the new bogie,” the officer added.
 
 Authorities were also trying to locate if the ill-fated passenger was traveling with a ticket. “We have not received any hard copy of his ticket and his name could not be located in the passenger reservation chart. There is a possibility that he had applied for an e-ticket which could not be confirmed,” said a senior officer of the NWR.
 
 
