In   to attend an event, director Madhur Bhandarkar shared with us that he was very happy to visit the hill town for the third time. “It feels great to come to Doon. This is my third visit to the city and I am loving it. I even visited Mussoorie, both the cities are peaceful and there is a positive vibe. I really like the kind of energy and enthusiasm that Doonites have,” he said.
In a conversation with Doon Times, Madhur spoke about his visits to the state, his meeting with CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, why he took up the #HumFitTohIndiaFit challenge and more. 
 
 
 Madhur is a self-confessed foodie and he spent a lot of time on this trip in exploring different cuisines at various restaurants. “Doon’s food is amazing. One gets a variety of delicious cuisines here. I am a big-time foodie. I recently visited a famous bakery in the city and tasted some amazing desserts. Something else I loved was the Tibetan food at a local restaurant,” he said.
 Reminiscing about his previous visits to the city, he said, “I came to Doon for the first time five years ago. In all these years, I have observed that Doon has changed a lot, especially in terms of infrastructure.”
 
  
  Madhur at FRI (imbhandarkar)
 
 
 Madhur shared with us a hair-raising experience he had when he visited Rishikesh some years back. “It was a December when I visited Rishikesh. Though it was the peak winter season, I was determined to take a dip in the Ganges. After gathering all my courage, I took a plunge in the icy cold water and accidentally, lost my balance. I was about to drown but luckily, I got to hold on to a chain and was saved. Thinking about this incident still gives me the chills,” the fillmmaker said. 
 
 But that hasn’t discouraged Madhur from paying another visit to the region, or even taking a dip in the river. He said, “I am planning to visit Haridwar this time and will probably again take a dip in the Ganges again.”
 
 
 Madhur told us that he was impressed with the city and that he plans to shoot in Doon soon. He said, “I would love to shoot in Dehradun because of its scenic beauty. I even met CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on this trip. We talked about ways to make the state shooting friendly. I gave him many suggestions and he was keen on implementing certain policies regarding the same.”
 
 
 After   released last year, Madhur has again started working on two projects. “I take time to make movies. From ' ' to 'Indu Sarkar', I have invested a lot of time and patience in making all my films. Currently, I am working on two projects which I can’t disclose. These projects are based on very unique concepts and I will announce them in three to four 
 months,” he said.
 
 
 Talking about the #HumFitTohIndiaFit challenge started by Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of Youth Affairs And Sports, Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, Madhur said, “I accepted the challenge and have posted a video of myself doing push-ups on Twitter. I have challenged two of my friends – Ronnie Screwvala and Gautam Singhania. I am a fitness enthusiast and love to take up such challenges. It’s a great initiative by Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore.”
 
  — Taresh Dutta
 
 
 
