Chennai: It’s a cruel April afternoon in 2008, there’s not a soul in stands of the MA Chidambaram Stadium. But a group of young Indian boys — led by India discard Suresh Raina — are working their hearts out. The stars haven’t yet landed, the world doesn’t know how the Indian Premier League is going to shape up, but what catches the attention is the steely determination of this group, comprising of boys from across the country, which believes in the idea of  . "This is my platform to show what I am capable of," Raina, drenched in sweat, smiles at a familiar face.

 The belief increases when M S Dhoni joins them. In a matter of days, Dhoni, a Jharkhand boy, doesn’t only become the leader of a multicultural Chennai Super Kings, but also ‘Thalaiva’ for the  . And how does the magic happen?
 
 Probably it’s embedded in two ideas — the lack of a sports superstar from the city and the larger than life image that MSD was able to create by pulling off those unbelievable chases time and again. Somewhere down the line, the CSK fans started believing Dhoni could pull off the unthinkable, probably the way Rajinikanth would do on screen.
 
 And in the process, a city which was perceived to be not-too-welcoming for north Indians, all of a sudden became second home for Dhoni, Raina and the likes. And the fans lapped up the success that the team dished out, becoming champions in 2010 and 2011. A club, which hardly had a couple of Tamil boys in the first XI, suddenly became one of the most loved entities in the capital of Tamil Nadu.
 
 But even after CSK became a part-and-parcel of Chennai’s life, the ride didn’t stay smooth for the team. And it’s not just about the two-year   that the team had to face because of its former owner Gurunath Meiyappan’s alleged links with spot-fixing.
 
 Political parties in the city saw CSK games as an opportunity to make a statement when it came to highlighting their agenda and get national attention. While ban on Sri Lankan players playing in Chennai forced the team to find a new home in 2014, this year was even more bizarre. While the city loved its team’s superb return to IPL, fringe groups protesting over the Cauvery issue forced them out of the city.
 
 But even as team left Chennai, they stayed put in the hearts of the followers. After all, it’s a bond that has been forged over a decade. It’s CSK’s ability to swim against the tide that made them popular from the time it was conceptualised.
 
 When in the first IPL auction, teams were looking for superstars, CSK went for a disciplined unit with one big brand — Dhoni. Over the years, meticulous homework helped them snap up players like Albie Morkel, Dwayne Bravo, Doug Bollinger, Sam Billings, Ambati Rayudu and so many others. None of them are big stars, but come IPL, they kept winning CSK impossible matches.
 
 For the Super Kings management, their biggest challenge possibly was the 2018 auctions, when they were coming back from the ban. They went against popular theory of T20 being a young man’s game and bought players well past their 30s. "Dad’s army!" the sceptics shouted. "We have the support-staff who can make this team a crack outfit, we believe in proven customers," Kasi Viswanathan, CSK CEO, said after auctions.
 
 Not too many believed him, but two months down the line, when a ‘discard’ like Shane Watson wins CSK a difficult game, everyone sits up. 
 
 They know the ride to change perceptions has begun all over again, just the way it did 10 years ago!
 
 
