Nagpur: Two persons robbed the owner of a petrol pump of Rs2.15 lakh just 100 meters away from his residence in Giripeth on Wednesday night. Sachin Chanchani (58), owner of the famous Bole Petrol Pump, was returning home with daily collection when the two attacked him by taking the advantage of the darkness. Police have arrested one of the accused, Chandan Singh Patel, and also seized the two-wheeler used in the robbery. Chanchani was heading towards his residence on a two-wheeler and when he took a left turn close to his house, one of the accused pushed him hard after which he fell on the ground. He then took away the cash kept in the front basket of Chanchani’s two-wheeler, while the other accused sat on a two-wheeler on the opposite side of the road. Soon after stealing the cash, both fled from the spot. Chanchani told TOI, “It seemed that both the robbers were waiting for me. One of them was hiding in the dark on the left side of the road while the other was sitting on a two-wheeler. As soon as I slowed my vehicle to take a turn, the one hiding in the dark pushed me hard and I fell on the road.” “During the scuffle, the mobile phone of one of the accused fell, which I handed over to the police. There is great chance that the entire incident was planned and implemented,” he added. Sources said the mobile phone received from the spot has the last incoming call at the same time Chanchani left the petrol pump. Chanchani has been taking the daily collection to his residence since the last 12 years. One of the residents of the area claimed that the streetlights have not been functioning since the last 10 days. With the help of the mobile phone, Sitabuldi police arrested Patel, who has several cases of robbery registered against him. The second accused is still on the run. How the incident unfolded Chanchani takes the daily connection and leaves for home at 8.35pm on his two-wheeler After a while, he sees one of the accused sitting on a two-wheeler on opposite side At 8.39pm, another accused hiding in the dark pushes Chanchani from the two-wheeler The accused take away the cash kept in the front basket of Chanhani’s vehicle During the scuffle, mobile phone of one of the accused falls on the spot Chanchani calls 100 at 8.42pm