CHENNAI: It’s 8pm as Anthony   settles in after his day’s work to listen to the news, the light bulb slowly goes dim, brightens for a few seconds and then goes kaput. The fan is still on as the power in the house switches to the inverter. Frequent power outages and voltage fluctuations are what the Maxworth Nagar neighbourhood in   has learned to live with.

 When Mariadas moved to the suburbs he was sure it would offer the delights of being close to nature with the amenities of a city. He had been reading reports about how the power situation in the state was improving over the years, with thermal units being opened to meet the growing demand. But though the reports look promising on paper little has changed in Mariadas’s home. "Since 2010, I have a generator and an inverter. The power cuts used to last hours but now though we have outages almost every day they are much shorter. We have been complaining to Tangedco officials but there is no solution," rues Maridas, president of the residents’ association.
 
 The city and nearby areas faced power cuts for not less than four hours till end of 2014. The 2015 summer was the first in nearly a decade when there was no shortage of power. But during the December 2015 floods and Cyclone Vardah in 2016, transmission towers were damaged and it took days before supply was restored to the entire city.
 
 While Tangedco has increased the capacity of underground cables in the core city, residents of suburban areas are still suffering due to low voltage and frequent power cuts. Kovilambakkam is among the areas, where the power situation has marginally improved in the past decade though the quality is poor largely because the area still has  . Exposed to the elements, prone to snap and unable to carry the optimum electrical capacity that underground cables can, the old tangled overhead wires frequently leave the suburbs in darkness. "We are facing frequent power fluctuations every day. Due to this we are not able to switch on airconditioners despite having three phase connections. The local Tangedco officials struggle to explain the reasons for the fluctuations though they insist there is no power shortage," says D Murugan of Madhavaram.
 
 Tangedco officials say it will take a few more years before all overhead lines in the remaining areas under Chennai corporation are replaced with underground cables. "In the core city we have increased the capacity of underground cables to the extent of 103.42km at a cost of `292.5 crore," said a senior Tangedco official. The discom is also replacing transformers and interlinking sub-stations to create backup in case sub-stations fail. "In all these areas, the present underground cable is being replaced with either 230KV UG cable or 1,10KV UG cable," said the official. 
 
 In the past few years, TN has moved to include alternate power and multiple sources. From being in the red till mid-2015, with the demand-supply gap increasing from less than 500MW to more than 4,000MW, the state has come a long way. The situation improved due to commissioning of three thermal units with a total capacity of 1,800MW in north Chennai and Mettur in 2014 and 2015. The much awaited Kudankulam nuclear power units also contributed. Since 2015, Tangedco has also been evacuating more wind power, supplying to northern states in summer.
 
 Residents have also taken baby steps to move towards green power but not without hiccups. There are several domestic consumers in apartments who have setup roof top solar projects within 2KW to 15KW but are not able to transfer excess solar power to the grid as they don’t have net meter.
 
 The situation in the city’s suburbs like Mariadas’s locality also seems promising. "The discom is linking high tension transmission lines underground to prevent damage to transmission towers. This will help increase the load as all these cables are 230KV cables," said a Tangedco official. 
 
 
