ASANSOL/KOLKATA: Two people were killed in unabated violence in   town on Thursday as the administration struggled to bring peace to pockets of   district, where violence started with Ram Navami processions in   four days ago. 

 
 The state-wide toll since Sunday's clashes reached five, with three deaths being reported from West Burdwan and one each from Purulia and North 24-Parganas' Kankinara.
 
  The continuing violence prompted   to head to the state secretariat directly from the airport, after she returned from her three-day visit to Delhi, and convene an emergency meeting of senior officials. 
 
  Sibtullah (17), who appeared for Class X state board examination a few days ago, and 45-year-old Pratima Devi, from Asansol town were Thursday's casualties. A two-month-old baby fell off her mother's lap in the violence and was rushed to hospital with injuries. 
 
 Sibtullah's father and local imam Imamdullah Rashid appealed to his congregation during the final prayer on Thursday to restore peace. "We are happy that both communities want peace. This will help us identify the instigators of the arson and violence. We have already initiated an investigation and will book the culprits," sub-divisional officer Pralay Roy said.
 
  The town remained cut off from the rest of the state, with the administration clamping Section 144 and ordering suspension of internet services. "Two persons died in violence. We are appealing to people to resume work and bring Asansol back to normal," Asansol municipal corporation mayor Jitendra Tewari said. 
 
  The town wore a deserted look as the news of the deaths spread. Shops remained closed as special combat battalions led a route march in the trouble-torn zones of the town. 
 
 Union minister   visited slum dwellers around 1pm in the town but some families dared him to visit the troubled zones. Police stopped the minister as he tried to continue his march and slapped non-bailable sections against him in two separate FIRs after there was scuffle with cops.
 
 Supriyo, too, lodged a complaint with the Asansol North police station, alleging that he was assaulted by IPS officer Rupesh Kumar. Supriyo's lawyer said the minister was free to move in his constituency. "The minister was also not given intimation about the clamping of Section 144 in the area," she said.
 
 
