At a time when deforestation and urbanisation is leading to the extinction of many a native plant species, a group of botanists have joined hands to conserve wild orchids in  .

 The project, led by assistant professor Giby Kuriakose from Sacred Hearts College, Kochi, aimed to preserve the natural diversity of wild orchids. “When you say orchids, all one thinks about are those colourful domestic ones from your garden or the hybrid orchids that are grown at homes. But there is a huge range of wild orchids which are more beautiful, which grow naturally,” he says. 
 
 The team chose Wayanad, as the district is home to a wide variety of these epiphytes. Giby explains, “I have noticed quite a few fallen wild orchids in Kerala, especially in Wayanad. It is very difficult for them to survive as they are  , plants that live on other plants. Even a minor wind can harm them, so you can imagine what natural calamities can do. So, we felt the need to restore these wild orchids.” 
 
 While conserving the orchids, the team decided to make it an educational project as well by including children. “We felt it would help them realise the need for nature conservation. With the support of Lissie Joseph, a teacher from Government Higher Secondary School, Vythiri, we began the project through the school’s nature club, which is very active. It was later extended to other schools,” Giby adds. 
 
 The project, which was on from October 2016 to January 2018, included many activities like pep talks for students, photo exhibitions of orchids at schools and colleges, a documentation of orchids in plantations close to forests and also training sessions on rescue and restoration of fallen orchids for workers in plantations and tribal communities. The students were given a basic training on orchid identification, characterising orchid habitats, rescue and restoration of fallen orchids. 
 
 “About 120 selected students and teachers from schools in Wayanad joined us in the project. We could give them insights into orchids; their floral morphology, mode of pollination and unique features. Many of the students were excited to know more about the plant that they see every day in their surroundings,” says Jis Sebastian, a researcher in orchids, who was also part of the project. 
 
 The documented videos of the wild orchids and the restoration project will be soon made into a documentary for educational purposes.
 
