NEW DELHI: With the capital staring at the possibility of a “mini-election”, chief minister   on Monday claimed that all development work would be halted for nearly two years. His deputy, Manish  , meanwhile, penned an open   to Delhiites, terming the disqualification of the 20   MLAs as “dirty politics” of BJP and appealed to them to give a befitting reply to the saffron party.

 Speaking at a public function in Wazirabad, Kejriwal said: “Soon after the bypolls, the Lok Sabha elections will take place. Again, the model code of conduct will come into force. This will be followed by the Delhi assembly elections. As a result, development work will suffer.” Detailing his government’s plans for the next two years, the   said projects related to free WiFi access and doorstep delivery of services, among others, were likely to be hit. “They (the Centre) are afraid of the good work being done by our government,” Kejriwal said. 
 
 Seeking the support of people on the issue, he said: “Do keep loving us. I draw my strength from you.” The CM reiterated that the office-of-profit case was “false” as none of the parliamentary secretaries got any benefits. He said these parliamentary secretaries had been given the responsibility of ensuring effective functioning of schools, hospitals and mohalla clinics.
 
 Earlier in the day, deputy CM Sisodia, in an open letter to citizens, claimed that the disqualification of the AAP MLAs was an extension of the sustained “harassment of the AAP government”. He wrote: “Under fabricated cases, your 18 MLAs were arrested, but they got relief from the court. They even targeted the CM, but found nothing and when each of their tricks failed, they disqualified the MLAs... The MLAs you elected were axed by the Centre, which didn’t even give them an opportunity to present their case.”
 
 Sources said the party leadership had asked the disqualified MLAs to be ready for bypolls. “You (the people) are the only hope for me. I know you will certainly give the right and effective answer,” Sisodia stated in his letter, written in Hindi. He further asked: “Is it fair to push Delhi into an election like this?”
 
 Reacting to the letter,  , leader of opposition in Delhi assembly, said: “It is an attempt by the deputy CM to mislead Delhiites by posing as a ‘victim’ of Constitutional authorities and the Centre. It is a subtle expression of the anarchist mindset of AAP functionaries.”
 
 
