BENGALURU: No big releases, less crowd at cinema halls and shootings disrupted for lack of crew as well—the   in the poll-ready state seems to have shifted limelight out of Sandalwood. 

 Many directors claimed to have incurred revenue losses as their movies running in cinema halls attract very less audience. 
 
 Director T S Nagabharana said the industry is going through a dull phase as people are getting free “political entertainment” in the form of election campaigns and speeches by leaders through television channels. 
 
 His recent movie, Kanoorayanna, has seen a fall in the revenue to the tune of Rs 1 crore and the director attributed this to the election frenzy. “I would have easily earned Rs 2 crore by now but due to election restrictions, I’ve incurred loss,” he said.
 
 Many producers and directors were forced to postpone their   as several actors are busy with campaigning. 
 
 Recently, actor Darshan campaigned for chief minister Siddaramaiah at Chamundeshwari in Mysuru while actor Yash sought votes for his friend M B Patil in Babaleshwar as well as for a BJP candidate. Rachitha Ram and Pooja Gandhi have been campaigning for JD(S) while Aindrita Ray, Diganth, Prajwal Devraj and Harshika Poonacha are Congress’s crowd-pullers. 
 
 Director and screenwriter Nagathihalli Chandrashekar said: “A political party told that if I canvass for them, they would send a suitcase of cash along with the driver.” Today’s actors are canvassing only to boost their stardom, he added. 
 
 “Actors canvas for parties only because of money and not because of their liking for the parties’ ideology. They are campaigning for more than one political party which creates a confusion among their fans,” he added. 
 
 However, director Yograj Bhat claimed nothing has affected him. “In fact I wrote an election song as requested by the Election Commission. Theatres running with lesser audience is normal; directors have to be more cautious while releasing their movies (during this time),” he added.
 
 
 
