PATNA: After the inclusion of human   (HPV) vaccine as a mode of specific prevention against cervical   in India’s universal immunisation programme (UIP) as per a decision by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), the department of community medicine at   Institute and Medical Sciences ( ) has proposed to administer and make available the vaccine to females between 9 and 26 years of age at Rs 2,000 per dose.

 “The vaccine costs Rs 2,400 per dose. Two doses are administered between 9 and 14 years of and three after 15 years,” said Dr Sanjay Kumar, head of IGIMS’s community medicine department. 
 
 “Cervical cancer is the third leading cancer among women in terms of new cases per year. Around 85% of the burden of cancer is in less developed countries. The HPV vaccine is included in the national immunisation programme of 60 countries.   and Delhi have already included HPV vaccine in their state vaccination programme,” added Dr Kumar.
 
 HPV is a group of more than 150 viruses that cause papilloma or warts in parts of the body, including genital areas. They spread by skin-to-skin contact and are responsible for a number of diseases, including cancer, though they are most commonly associated with cancer of the cervix (neck of the uterus).
 
 A free cancer screening camp will also be organised on IGIMS premises on Monday.
 
 Meanwhile,   Hospital started a cancer awareness campaign with the students of Litera Valley School on the eve of World Cancer Day on Saturday. Oncologist Dr Shekhar Kumar Keshri of Paras HMRI advised students keep away from tobacco and motivate people around them to stop consuming it.
 
 “In India, 80-85% cancer is caused due to tobacco use. The remaining 15-20% cases are caused by genetic factors, intake of contaminated water and consumption of beverages containing chemicals. Genetic cancer includes blood cancer (leukaemia), cancer of the eye (retinoblastoma), stomach/gastric cancer, neuroblastoma and breast cancer,” Dr Keshri added. 
 
 Dr J K Singh, director of Paras HMRI’s cancer centre, said if the government succeeded in checking consumption of tobacco products, the number of patients will be reduced by 80-85%. “In case the disease is diagnosed at an early stage, it can be cured. Of the 15 lakh cancer patients in India, Bihar alone accounts for 90,000 patients,” he added. 
 
 
