CHENNAI: Two weeks after landing in a controversy for his comment claiming Darwin’s theory on evolution wrong, Union minister of state for human resources development Sathya Pal Singh said the best science and technology concepts from around the world need to be adopted for development of the country. 

 But it is important to go back to the Vedas, the minister said, adding south Indians pronounce (hymns from) Vedas much better than their northern counterparts as the latter have forgotten how to pronounce it correctly. Singh was speaking at an event at   in Gopalapuram on Saturday evening. 
 
 “North India, which has forgot this (hymns from Vedas) due to numerous invasion and attacks, should be grateful to the pandits from the  , who preserved Vedas for generations,” he said. 
 
 Addressing the students on the occasion of Rishi Dayanand Janma Diwas, Singh said Aryans and Dravidians are not two different races and researchers suggest that there was only a single race across the country. 
 
 Speaking to TOI on the sidelines, Singh said the ministry has so far received 80 applications from institutions across the country seeking funds under the world-class institutions project. 
 
 The government is likely to invest Rs 10,000 crore under the scheme aimed at internationalisation of 20 Indian educational institutions (10 public and rest private). 
 
 UGC had earlier received 100 applications. Out of these, nearly 80 applications, including one from  , has been forwarded to the ministry. 
 
 Responding to questions on the new education policy, Singh said, “We are expecting the committee (on education policy) to release the final draft by March and it will be sent to the cabinet after deliberations within the ministry. As far as reforms in higher education are concerned, we are focusing on quality, research and innovation.” 
 
 Vikas Arya, the director of DAV Group of Schools said Guru Shikshanam, a centre of excellence for teachers, has been recently launched. Online forms for PG certification programmes is now available.
 
 
