BENGALURU: In almost filmi style,   rescued  , a  , Naganathapura unit, and arrested six men on   charges. Shivakumar, 52,had been in the custody of his abductors for nearly 70 hours before he was rescued.

 Police were alerted about the incident after Shivakumar’s wife, Sudha, filed a complaint on the afternoon of April 9. In her complaint, Sudha said her husband had stepped out of their apartment around 3.30pm on April 8 and had remained incommunicado since then.
 
 “She received a call from her husband’s mobile on the morning of April 9,” said M B Borlingaiah, deputy commissioner of police (southeast). “Shivakumar spoke, saying he had been kidnapped and his abductors wanted a ransom of Rs 1 crore. The kidnappers directed that the cash be handed over to them at Sarjapur Circle on April 10 at 12.30pm.”
 
 Police said their investigation revealed that Shivakumar had left his home with one Satyavelachari, an employee of a private interior designing firm. “The two drove in Shivakumar’s Toyota Innova before he went missing,” police said.
 
 While cops were probing, Sudha, carrying a suitcase, headed to Sarjapur Circle on April 10 and waited till 3pm. The kidnappers didn’t turn up. “The kidnappers called her in the evening and asked if she had filed a police complaint,” police said. “When Sudha fumbled with her answer, they warned her that they would murder her husband.” The abductors again called her in the night, saying they would name another place the next morning for the exchange. “By then, we had discovered their location — Srinivasapura, on the outskirts of Kolar,” police said.
 
  “Our teams reached the spot on April 11 and zeroed in on Shivakumar’s Innova. We ambushed the vehicle and rescued Shivakumar after arresting one of the accused, who was guarding the victim. Based on clues given by the accused, we arrested the others.”
 
 Apart from, Satyavelachari alias Satya, 24, a resident of Arakere on Bannerghatta Road, the others arrested are Yashwanth Yadav C S, 20, Vinod Kumar, 21, Sanjay Reddi alias Kichca, 20, N Shekhar, 20 and S Jagannath, 20, all residents of Kolar.
 
 Police said Satya had asked Shivakumar for a loan of Rs 5 lakh, but when the senior technician refused, Satya hatched the plot to kidnap him, knowing he had the money since he had recently sold a couple of flats he had owned in Naganathapura.
 
 “Satya got Shivakumar out of his residence on the pretext of meeting a house owner in JP Nagar where the other accused were waiting. They acted like they were kidnapping both of them, but they let Satya go in Kolar.” 
 
 
