The caste violence in Koregaon Bhima region rocked both houses of Parliament on Wednesday, with the opposition demanding an explanation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on why instances of violence against Dalits were on the rise in the country under his watch.

 Congress also sought the appointment of a Supreme Court judge to probe the violence. Congress and BSP members, on their part, forced adjournment of Rajya Sabha twice during the pre-lunch session, washing out the Zero and Question Hours.
 
 Lok Sabha, in turn, was adjourned for 15 minutes in the afternoon after opposition parties raised the issue of Dalits being attacked by alleged “right wing” groups for celebrating the victory of the Battle of Koregaon Bhima in 1818.
 
 Following repeated demands by opposition leaders to be allowed to raise the issue in Lok Sabha, Speaker Sumitra Mahajan allowed Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge to speak, but emphasised, before he began, the necessity to have a civilised debate over episodes of violence against the Dalit community. “We are all responsible public representatives and no solution can be arrived at by making allegations and counter allegations. The House must work together and deliberate over this issue to find solutions,” Mahajan said.
 
 Despite the Speaker’s appeal, however, disruptions continued. While Kharge demanded that PM Modi come to the House and “tell the country” why such instances of violence against Dalits were on the rise under his watch, Congress also sought appointment of a Supreme Court judge to investigate the violence.
 
 Kharge said, “A Supreme Court judge should be appointed to inquire into the incident, not the state government.” 
 
 BJP MPs alleged a Congress hand in fuelling caste divisions and violence between Marathas and Dalits. On Wednesday, Union minister Ananth Kumar went to the extent of alleging that Congress, frustrated by its repeated electoral failures in Gujarat and Himachal, was making a desperate bid to gain a foothold by pitting one community against another and disrupting peace in BJP-ruled Maharashtra.
 
 Responding to Kharge’s charges, Kumar said, “First it was the British that used the divide and rule policy; now Congress is using it to divide communities...” 
 
 
