MUMBAI: A day after a student summit to be addressed by Dalit leader   and student activist Umar Khalid was blocked,  , nudged by the police, pushed back an event involving   at Lalbaug on Sunday.

 Bhide, 84, and his right-wing Shiv Pratishthan based in Sangli are among those named in an FIR as having played a pivotal role in the clashes at Koregaon Bhima on January 1 that triggered violence across the state.
 
 “We had been preparing for the event for the last three months. More than 5,000 people were supposed to attend. But after what happened in Pune, we had discussions with the police and were asked to postpone the event,” said Balwantrao Dalvi, the Mumbai branch chief.
 
 Dalvi said the event has just been postponed, but could not give the next date for it. 
 
 “The situation is very murky in Mumbai and we didn’t want to further spoil it,” said Dalvi. Shiv Pratishthan has regional offices in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai.
 
 Members refuted the allegations by Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangh leader Prakash Ambedkar against Bhide for inciting violence at Koregaon Bhima along with Milind Ekbote of Samast Hindu Aghadi. Former Pune corporator Ekbote has also been named in the FIR over clashes following the Dalit gathering to mark the 200th anniversary of the battle in which Mahar soldiers under the British defeated the upper caste army of the Peshwas.
 
 “Guruji (Bhide) is being framed. He was not even in Pune on January 1 when the incident (Koregaon Bhima clashes) occurred. There are fringe elements who are trying to create communal divide in the country,” said Dalvi. “We are proud to be a Hindutvavadi organisation, but we are Indians first. We will not do anything which causes communal tension in the state.”
 
 The members said all Hindutvavadi organisations in the state are related to them, including Ekbote’s Samast Hindu Aghadi and   (RSS). “We love the RSS and hope they share the same feeling for us. We are related to all the organisations that worship Shivaji Maharaj and believe in the saffron flag,” said Chetan Bharaskar, a member.
 
 They demanded a fair investigation so that all misunderstandings are cleared and the culprits who orchestrated the riots are brought to book. “We are not running away from the police. Guruji has given his reply to the Sangli police regarding the notice sent to him. Why should we run, we have done nothing wrong,” said Bharaskar.
 
 
