NEW DELHI: After LED panels at major intersections of the capital, some select busy Delhi Metro   have started displaying hourly air quality index and similar displays will come up at many other   stations. Very soon, these displays will be installed at hospitals and interstate bus terminals as well.

 Giant panels at some of the busiest   stations now display AQI readings, along with associated health advisory for the benefit of commuters. Apart from the category of AQI and health advisory, the display also inform about the most prominent pollutant in the air at that moment.
 
 At present, the AQI readings and health advisories are displayed at Kashmere Gate, Chandni Chowk, New Delhi, Rajiv Chowk, and Central Secretariat metro stations. While all these are some of the busiest stations in the Delhi Metro network, Kashmere Gate, Rajiv Chowk and Central Secretariat are also major interchange stations, while New Delhi metro station is an interchange point for Airport Express Line.
 
 A Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) spokesperson said that more stations will be added to the list shortly.
 
 “The AQI is taken from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) website and hourly updates are displayed between 6am and 11pm at the metro stations,” he said. “The AQI, however, is for Delhi and not of air quality inside metro stations,” he clarified.
 
 A Sudhakar, CPCB member secretary, said the move is being undertaken after PMO orders to raise awareness among the general public about the air quality around them. The second phase of the drive will focus on metro stations, however, Sudhakar said they also plan to bring in hospitals and interstate bus terminals into the purview.
 
 “We issued directions to DPCC to utilise these screens to display air quality data. We are already coordinating with DMRC to cover a number of metro stations and we plan to cover hospitals and ISBTs soon, for which the deadline is March,” said Sudhakar.
 
 CPCB officials said the electronic boards will display real-time readings in the form of AQI, taking data from the nearest air monitoring station as well as display the overall index of Delhi for that particular day. 
 
 In the first phase of this plan, CPCB has already collaborated with Delhi Police to display air quality data at 50 major intersections and crossings using their electronic boards.
 
 
