CHANDIGARH: The residents welfare association of Sector 35 will hand over 40 neighbourhood parks to the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) on March 31, 2018 for their maintenance. RWA has been maintaining these parks till now.

 President of the RWA of Sector 35 Amarjit   said the association has decided not to continue maintaining the neighbourhood parks from April 1, 2018, because of delay in disbursement of the funds by the MC.
 
 In fact, there is a long list of other RWAs, which are also planning on the same lines to surrender the parks to the authorities as the amount released by the MC is very nominal and has never been revised since 2013, when the scheme was started by MC. Various RWAs have demanded revision of the rates as the cost of maintenance is now almost double the funds the authorities pay them.
 
 According to the MC, the RWAs are getting Rs 2.48 per square-feet for the park, which was fixed in 2013. The RWA members said MC is paying them Rs 3,500 for each park while the operational cost is Rs 7,000 now. This is because the cost of labour and other requirements have increased.
 
 Chairman of Federation of Sectors Welfare Association of Chandigarh (Foswac)   said the majority of the RWAs are receiving the payment late and the amount is very nominal too. He said the RWAs are receiving Rs 1.50 to Rs 2 per square-feet instead of Rs 2.48 per square feet as maintenance funds as the authorities deduct funds for various expenditures. “However, the MC itself is spending Rs 6 per square-feet for the park maintained by it. The authority had been suggested to release the funds to the association a month before so that the parks could be maintained properly. In fact, to increase the funding also, a number of representations were given to the authorities by   in past,” he added.
 
 Gurdev Singh Ahluwalia, a member Sector 32 RWA, said recently the pendency of the payment was of four months due to which the RWAs faced huge problem. “The authorities are paying minimal amount. They should at least release that on time,” he said.
 
 
  
 
