Rarely do you come across actors who become so synonymous with their characters that you can’t imagine any other actor essaying that role. Tabassum Fatima Hashmi aka   is one of them. 'Maachis', ' ', 'Chandni Bar', 'Haider'… the list of her memorable performances is long. And, after gripping the viewers with some intense roles in serious cinema, she surprised everyone by becoming a part of last year’s comic-caper, ' '. But that’s Tabu for you — unpredictable. BT caught up with the actress at her office in suburban Mumbai to chat about her two-and-a-half decade journey in cinema. Excerpts... 

 
 It’s been fun, challenging, gratifying... I cannot come up with any one adjective for my journey. Initially, I found it mentally challenging, as I come from a different background. I grew up in a simple family of academicians in Hyderabad. Acting happened by accident, like most things in my life. I never had an inclination for it. Adjusting to the mindset of the industry and its ways was tough. My journey of self-discovery actually began when I started understanding and giving more to the craft, when I wanted to be more than just the heroine. Meeting people like Gulzar saab, Mani Ratnam, Priyadarshan, Santosh Sivan... from then on, it began to get serious. 
 
 
 Both the films happened around the same time (1996). At that time, though I was enjoying working in films like 'Pehla Pehla Pyar' and 'Vijaypath' (both in 1994), I wanted to find something more engaging. Working with Gulzar was a dream because I had never thought that I would get to work with him. I wanted to work with someone who makes movies that are real, where I could just be myself and not have to wear make-up. I enjoyed the sense of responsibility that 'Maachis' gave me.However, when I heard the script back then, I didn’t understand its political relevance or message. When you’re young, you don’t understand certain things. But looking back, it feels great to have been part of such an important film. From that point, I started valuing the craft of acting and understanding it.
 
 
 I was too young to think about strategies. Also, my sister (former actress Farah) and I were not trained like that. Jo achha lag raha tha, back then I was excited to do it. I wanted to do meaty roles and 'Maachis' brought me my first National Award. I never felt I was taking a risk. I knew my choices would work and I saw no reason to not do these films.
  
 
 Female-centric films have always been there. They may sound like a different tribe of cinema, but I don’t look at it like that. The only development is that layered and grey women characters are also being accepted now. Earlier, that was not the case. I think that with Maqbool (2003), the audience began slowly accepting such female characters. Audiences were surprised to see me play a dark character in that film. However, I didn’t think I was doing anything drastic when I became a part of it..
 
 
 I don’t know, I don’t think it will be possible for me to analyse it. Commercial success has always helped me stay afloat and let me do other things. Being accepted in commercial as well as offbeat cinema has been my biggest strength. 
 
 
 I did what I was instinctively drawn towards. So, there were no thoughts of repercussions or stereotypes. The character has to be relevant to the story. In 'Astitva', my character was Namrata Shirodkar’s mother-in-law. In 'Haider', I never thought that I’d be thought of as the hero’s (Shahid Kapoor) mother. The character is more important to me. I would rather pick a riskier role than a plain, safe character that is neither strong nor too important. I’ve never made choices based on conventional standards. 
 
 
 Maybe because the kind of movies that I wanted to do were not being made. I was not liking what I was being offered. I think the industry was also in a state of flux. The shift from the 90s to the early 2000s has been drastic and clearly visible. People didn’t know who to cast in what kind of role. I think in the last seven-eight years, we have settled down. There is chaos, but we have reached an understanding and worked our way around it. 
 
 
 The strength of the character, and by that, I don’t mean just being the flag-bearer of human rights. The character should have some strength of her own, or else, it won’t have any meaning. What also excites me is working with people I am comfortable with and those who will help me grow as an actress and individual… I’m the kind of person who is always 
 hungry for new experiences. Hence, I make unpredictable choices. Subconsciously, I push myself towards choices that will help me grow. 
 
 
 I have thought about it, but it has remained just a thought. Sometimes, the thought would be strong and I would draft stories in my head. Then I would discuss them with my director friends and when they’d say very good, I’d forget about them.
 Today, on-air content, which bypasses censorship issues, gives filmmakers and actors ample freedom. There’s also a huge demand for it...
 Well, I don’t have that kind of experience. I don’t know many aspects of cinema and filmmaking. And I don’t know if I want to take up that kind of responsibility single-handedly. I can’t engineer a team or create a set-up. Unless something triggers me internally, I won’t give it a thought. 
 
 
 I’ve nothing against relationships. They happen when they have to. It’s not something that you put down in a couple of points. 
 
 
 It used to bother me when people were interested in other people’s lives, but not anymore. It’s human nature. Sometimes, I feel that people also do it out of concern. People will always be curious about single women, more so a celebrity. I think our society has a problem accepting that a woman can be single by choice also.
 
