BENGALURU: A five-storey under-construction building in Marenahalli, Jayanagar 5th Block, which has developed cracks and is dangerously tilting towards one side, has triggered panic in the neighbourhood. Following a caution notice by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike ( ), residents of about 10 houses around the structure which is on the verge of collapse, have vacated their houses temporarily.

 When STOI visited the spot on Saturday, the demolition of the weakened structure was in progress. The under-construction residential complex developed cracks, mostly on the ground floor. Jayanagar cops, who were overseeing the exercise, said the property belongs to a person named Lokanath, who has been directed to bear the cost of demolition.
 
 N Raju, a businessman, whose house is located next to the weakened structure, said families residing in 10 houses in the vicinity have relocated elsewhere for the time being. “I have shifted to my daughter’s house in JP Nagar. The complex has been under construction for the past 10 months and we started noticing cracks in the structure over the last 20 days. The owner, Lokanath, immediately approached BBMP seeking permission to demolish the building. Accordingly, the demolition has started now,” he said.
 
 Police said they didn’t face any law and order issues during the demolition. “The owner and his neighbours are on good terms,” they said, adding, “For safety purposes, we have deployed a couple of personnel.” BBMP joint commissioner (south) T H Vishwanath said they are taking all precautionary measures and the demotion will be completed in a day or two.
 
 
 
 
 A copy of the BBMP notice, dated February 9, served to one of the residents in the neighbourhood, was accessed by TOI. “Owners or tenants of the properties in the neighbourhood of the building have been directed to vacate their homes. In case the said structure collapses and damages your property, the civic body won’t be responsible for it. You will be responsible for the damage caused to your property,” the notice said.
 
 When asked why residents in the neighbourhood have been told to bear the cost of probable  , BBMP assistant executive engineer (Jayanagar) Nagaraj said they are acting as per the standard procedure which is followed during such cases.
 
 “Residents in the neighbourhood have been told to vacate houses to ensure that they are safe during the demolition exercise. We have also served notice to the   to demolish the structure at his own cost,” he said.
 
 “Also, we send such notices to ensure that the civic agency is not burdened with compensation appeals of residents. They can fight with the owner of the faulty structure over compensation and not seek anything from BBMP,” the official added.
 
