MUMBAI: Long before Facebook became the space for people to share their special moments, George Eastman had, in 1888, introduced the   when he put the first simple camera in people’s hands and introduced the first commercial transparent   with the slogan, “You press the button, we do the rest”. It enabled   to develop the   that shaped cinema's heritage.

 
  
  
 
 But contrary to Kodak’s claim, a lot needed to be done before and after the press of a button in keeping physical film alive. With the growth of Indian film industry,   Cinelab set up its   in Andheri in 2005 to lend global quality. However, it did not foresee the digital turnaround that forced it to pull out of the Indian market in 2014. 
 
 Now, with a sudden resurgence of film in Hollywood and several A-listers returning to the medium, Kodak–the only manufacturer of motion picture film in the world now–is trying to fill the void. After setting up film processing labs in New York and London last year, when all other labs have shut down, the photography giant is re-entering India with a promise of re-investing and building infrastructure to help Indian filmmakers return to celluloid.
 
 “We never really pulled out. The demand for film went so low in 2012 that Kodak effectively stopped selling film. Today we’re relatively small and supporting the printing market in India with $40 million in US revenues and 85 employees down from hundreds back in the heyday,”  , CEO of Kodak, told TOI. “But last year we sold 200,000 feet of film to independent documentary filmmakers. Still a tiny fraction but we’re seeing enormous amount of motion picture content and creativity in India as well as huge viewing public,” he said revealing that Kodak had signed an agreement with Filmlab, a film production hub in Mumbai, to build a film processing lab. “We start with a film lab equipped with advanced scanners and experts. Next, a distributory network, get film schools to teach film again, and bring back film projectors.” Kodak also unveiled its new Super 8 Camera that uses the analogue technology but with digital features.
 
 This comes close on the heels of filmmaker Christopher Nolan’s arrival in the city along with celebrated visual artist   this weekend to support the Film Heritage Foundation and spark a conversation on the importance of shooting, preserving and archiving on film. Taking centrestage at Bhau Daji Lad Museum on Friday with Nolan in the audience, Dean was candid that she isn’t a fan of the digital medium. “For me, medium is what medium can do, that I can’t,” says Dean, known for her gallery films and frequent use of 16mm and 35mm film in her artwork.
 
 Dean, who lives in Berlin, divides her time between creating and showcasing portraits in pure film at prominent art biennales and championing the need to safeguard the endangered medium as founder of Save Film, a movement petitioning Unesco to do the same. “Film was my medium since I was in art college. So around 2012 when film felt valedictory, I refused to give it up,” she stated urging young artists “never to compromise” while adding that the future of film was about semantics. “Stop using words like ‘obsolete’ and ‘old-fashioned’ for film. Digital is not film, a word that has an etymological root.”
 
 Dean who does not mind working on a "limited palette" explained: “It’s the frustration and need for physicality that makes me return to film. A reason why you’ll see me at concerts and lectures… because it involves bodily encounters.”
 
 
