GURUGRAM: District sports officer ( ) of Gurugram   has been booked for allegedly misusing his official position and availing sports   for his two   by submitting false documents. 

 
 The DSO has been accused of taking scholarships worth Rs 75,000 in the name of his sons in 2011 when he was working as gymnast coach. He was promoted to the post of DSO in 2012.
 
 An RTI query about scholarships given to Ram’s children was filed in 2014 after which he returned the amount, saying he was unaware of the rules. However, the   alleged that it was unlikely that someone working with the department was unaware about the norms of the government scheme.
 
 According to the complaint, the scholarship scheme is only for scheduled castes (SC) students whose family income is not more than Rs 2 lakh per annum but Ram misused his official position to avail the scholarship for his sons. As per norms, the father of a student applying for the scholarship has to submit an affidavit, claiming his earning is not more than Rs 2 lakh a year. Ram gave false affidavits and retuned the money only when the RTI query was filed, said the complaint.
 
 When TOI contacted the DSO, he said the case was a conspiracy against him. “My children applied for scholarships which were approved by two committees, one in Gurugram and the other in Chandigarh. The norms were changed later. When I came to know about the changes, I returned the money,” said Ram, adding that he never misused his official position and he was not DSO when his children were given the scholarships.
 
 Ram said some people were eyeing his chair and conspiring against him. “They filed an RTI query under a false name and levelled baseless allegations. Nothing has been proved,” he said.
 
 An FIR was filed against the DSO under sections 177 (wilful misinformation), 181 (false statement on oath), 200 (whoever corruptly uses or attempts to use as true any such declaration, knowing the same to be false in any material point), 420 (cheating) of IPC at the Gurugram city police station. Sub-inspector Rohtash Singh said, “We are investigating the case.”
 
 
