The Indian godman. That stately figure in spotless white or saffron robes, with flowing locks and beard, to all appearances the younger brother of a brown Jehovah. He is also the Rasputin lookalike, with piercing yet warm eyes, hypnotic and seductive at once, a promiser of secret ecstasies and radical transformations of life and consciousness. We grant the godman power over our minds and lives for many reasons, but primarily because of our own need to believe in the existence of a ‘higher’ reality — variously called the Sacred, Divine, God — something beyond the shared, verifiable reality of our empirical world, our bodies, and our emotions. 

 
 Barring a small minority of atheists and doubters, for most people this higher reality is the dispenser of religious-spiritual moments that, in the words of the poet John Keats, “light up the narrow, mundane world of daily existence, a world which has always been inadequate to our experience and unequal to bear the burden of our hopes”. The godman is believed to be in intimate contact with ‘higher’ reality and has the power to make it accessible to his followers. He or she (for this also holds true for the godwoman) is the culturally sanctioned addressee of an ancient civilisational longing, a collective request for the transforming experience. His reputed ability to induce euphoric states in the follower carries a conviction of his divinity that is impervious to scepticism and disbelief. The follower cannot be shaken out of his belief in the godman with appeals to reason or evidence, answering anyone who would doubt with, “I don’t believe, I know.”
 
 The promise of transformation, an entrance into realms of higher reality, goes beyond healing in its narrow sense. Yet, for the followers it is the stories of the godman’s miraculous healing powers that are the most convincing proof of his intimate connection to higher reality, helping in further swelling their ranks. 
 
 Apart from the godman, there is the appeal of the identity one gains by being a member of his sect. Between the vast traditional majority, ensconced in their caste and other group identities, and a small minority of the individualised, a large, transitional sector of India’s population, living in towns and metropolitan areas, is the natural reservoir of the godman’s sect. Membership of the sect provides a person with a new group identity to replace the village or caste identities which have become shaky. Standing between the individual and impersonal modern institutions, the sect also offers substitutes for community and professional associations. The mutual obligations inherent in sect membership are not limited to fostering each other’s spiritual progress but also extend, say, to the clearance of a fellow member’s income-tax return or helping him get an undeserved driving licence.
 
 As much as he offers empowerment through identification with himself and his sect, it is a rare godman who does not come to misuse the power granted to him by his followers. This has nothing to do with a particular godman’s goodness or villainy but is inherent in the institution itself. Idealised by followers (“You are great! You are perfect!”), a godman must process the idealisations internally and not start believing them. This is easier when it comes to processing unfair criticism or even rank abuse since these cause inner discomfort. Such negative attributions by others invite our rejection and demand that we discriminate between what is true in what is being said about us and what is merely a product of the attacker’s malevolence. This painful motivation for repelling invasion of the self by others does not exist when what the others are saying about us is narcissistically gratifying, and bolsters our self-esteem, as is invariably the case with adoring and reverential followers. Even the most self-aware of godmen finds it difficult to resist the intensity, duration and sheer number of idealisations that come his way day in and day out. He may have promised himself never to inhale the constant flow of flattery but cannot resist sniffing at its smoke.
 
 One consequence of these positive idealisations is a loss of touch with the reality of everyday life and the context in which the idealisations are embedded. Under the benefical smile and apparent humility, in the inner world of the godman, there is a steady regression to unconscious feelings of omnipotent grandiosity —“I am great! I am beyond constraints under which other human beings live.”
 
 Moreover, as the godman ages, cut-off parts of the self, often having to do with celibacy and his unlived sexuality, make their claims which he no longer can or wishes to resist. As his omnipotent grandiosity grows, the godman might retreat into promiscuity or sexual perversions leading to the sad but reliable reports about aging godmen who summon their young devotees for secret assignations or become peeping Toms as they arrange, with all the cunning of the voyeur, to spy on their teenaged female disciples undressing for the night in the ashram. And the sadder part is that the intensity of the devotees’ wish to believe in what the godman offers drives them to deny his abuses when they happen. The devotees, in fact, have deep emotional investment in not seeing the abuses, which completes the cycle of the godman’s grandiosity.
 
 
