Ludhiana: Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal held a meeting with city industrialists at a factory of prominent industrialist Kulwant Singh on Wednesday. Nearly 100 businessmen were present in the meeting, which was organised to discuss the problems being faced by the trade and industry of Ludhiana from different departments.

 Speaking on the occasion, Inderjit Singh Navyug, president of United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) said, “VAT refund has become one of the major issues for us and even after almost a year of GST replacing VAT, we are still forced to beg for VAT refunds, which are pending from years with the state excise department. The promise made by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to reduce charges of electricity to Rs 5 per unit, too, has still not been fulfilled and the power costs us at Rs 9.5-10 per unit.”
 
 KK Garg, president of Induction Furnace Association of North India (IFNI), mentioned how the skyrocketing rate of raw materials is affecting the business. “The rates of raw material have shot up by more than Rs 10 per kg but nothing has been done so far by the state or Centre. Furnace industry is still waiting for the reduction of power to Rs 5 per unit due to which we are still burdened with the excessive cost of production. Bogus billing is a serious issue and people who are indulging in this practice are fleecing government and us of crores of rupees,” he said. He also added, “The taxation department is slapping notices on the genuine people who are not involved in this. The government should ensure action is taken against the person who is issuing the bogus bills.”
 
 Badish Jindal, president of Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FOPSIA), said, “The corrupt officers who are involved in scams worth crores are being let off by the government. Acts like bogus billing are only possible with the involvement of such officials, who always roam free and are being promoted. Recently, the state taxation department conducted an inspection. However, no action was taken against those involved in bogus billing or those were not issuing proper bills to customers.”Rajneesh Ahuja, president of Focal Point Welfare Association, said the government should ensure that one-time settlement schemes for cases related to Punjab small industries, Export Corporation and Punjab State Power Corporation Limited begin.
 
 Other businessmen who presented their views on the occasion included Roshan Lal Singla, Avtar Singh Bhogal, Ramesh Garg, Sudesh Bansal, OP Bassi, Bhushan Abbi, Charanjit Singh Vishivkarma, Suresh Goyal, Naresh Goyal, SS Nota and others.
 
 Meanwhile, after listening to the grievances of industrialists, Badal assured them to solve their problems at the earliest. The state finance minister also decided to organise another meeting with the industrialists on next Thursday.
 
 
