LUDHIANA: Enthusiastic   were seen queued up outside the polling stations in Ludhiana for the city's Municipal Corporation elections on Saturday morning.

 Final voting percentage of Ludhiana (all wards) is 59.08%, lowest since 2000.
 
 One taken into custody after shots were fired at Congress supporters at BRS Nagar outside polling booth of DAV Public School.
 
 Paramjit Kaur of Congress party defeats her nearest rival Raj Rani of Shiromani Akali Dal by 214 votes in Ward Number five of Payal; she secured 345 of 479 polled votes.
 
 Sources in District Election office say that voting percentage has crossed 50% around 2.40pm. It might even touch 65% as voting in last hour is brisk.
 
 
 
 
 Ldh (all wards) - 43.06%
 
 Jagraon (ward 17) - 65%
 
 Payal (ward 5) - 73.50%
 
 At ward number 56: Allegations of booth capture against Congress members.
 
 Violation of Section 144 at ward no 25; people gathering at polling booth. MLA Sharanjit Dhillon reaches spot and objects to it.
 
  
  
 
 Around 26% polling was recorded till noon. 
 
 Hours ahead of the polls of Municipal Corporation in Ludhiana, the Commissioner of Police suspended the SHO at police station Salem Tabri Inspector Vijay Kumar for being unfair while performing election duty, on Friday late night. The inspector has been suspended with immediate effect.
 
 Police misbehave with media persons at ward 44.
 
 1984 riot affected throng polling booths in large numbers.
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Some people complained of bogus voting in Ward no 3 and 85.
 
 Ranjit Dhillon SAD district president has alleged that voters were not allowed to enter polling booth by Congress polling agent in ward number 3.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Jagbir Singh Sokhi, SAD candidate from ward number 36, has alleged discrepancy in voter list at various booths in his area.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 All necessary arrangements have been made to ensure peaceful polling for  , a senior official said today.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  have been made for the elections and more than 4,500 cops have been deployed, he said.
 
 Around 5,400 employees of civil administration have also been engaged in the entire election process, District Electoral Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal said.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 As many as 494 candidates are in the fray for Ludhiana Municipal Corporation elections. Nearly 10.50 lakh voters are eligible to cast their votes to elect their representatives from 95 wards. There are 5.67 lakh male voters, 4.82 lakh females, and 23 transgenders.
 
 A total of 284 polling stations out of a total of 1,153 stations have been identified as sensitive where videography would be done.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Agrawal informed that nine strong rooms would be set up at as many places where the electronic voting machine would be kept till the counting day (February 27).
 
 CCTV cameras have been installed for the round-the-clock supervision of the strong rooms. These cameras would be Wi-Fi enabled and any candidate can oversee the strong room by just entering a password which would be issued by the returning officer.
 
 The   has declared holiday in all government offices, corporations, boards, and educational institutions tomorrow in all concerned election areas here.
 
 Dry days will be observed in Ludhiana, Jagraon, and Payal on the polling day and the counting day.
 
 
