Nagpur: Breaking his silence on the ‘award wapsi’ row, Nagpur University vice chancellor SP Kane on Monday dubbed academician Dr Vedprakash Mishra’s move as a ‘gimmick’ and slammed him for dragging his late mother into university affairs for personal gains. Last week, Mishra had written to Kane, to say he will be returning the lifetime achievement award conferred on him by the Kane administration in 2016. The move was a result of Kane refusing to allow Mishra to hold a lecture on the second death anniversary of his mother, Shivkumari Mishra, at NU’s Convocation Hall in December. Since October 2017, the Kane administration has also been going after Mishra in an alleged case of plagiarism. “Mishra is very well aware that the university is going to cancel his diploma. Before doing that, we have to take back the ‘Jeevan Sadhana Puraskar’. To save himself the embarrassment, he has created all this drama of insult to his mother and award wapsi,” Kane said. The VC clarified that he has a lot of respect for Shivkumari Mishra, and considered her as his mother too. “But that doesn’t mean I have to breach norms and extend favours. I have never done that and would not ever do it,” he said. Kane compared the ‘First Matoshree Memorial Oration’ episode with the release of his father’s book on Rashtrasant Tukdoji Maharaj. “In April 2017, the second edition of my father’s book was released. Everyone in the university asked me to hold it in the convocation hall. But, it was a private and family function, so we held it at Rashtra Bhasha Bhavan at Shankar Nagar,” he said. Besides the lecture row, another function organized at NU convocation hall too had attracted Mishra’s wrath in 2017. Kane said during that lecture he had to actually leave the premises to preserve his dignity. “The VC was not made the chief guest of that function. Mishra was the guest speaker. He launched a scathing attack on me. Later, he complained that I was absent. What could I have done? Sit there and listen to all the mudslinging on the university and its VC,” he said. Regarding the award, Kane said Mishra won’t be able to return the award since there is no such provision.