Sachdev Kumar, 63, came to Tapovan Senior Citizen’s Foundation at Kuppanur in Coimbatore to lead a peaceful retired life and to ensure that his wife is free from cooking duties. On the contrast, he is now suffering the most running from one government office to the other as the promoters of the senior citizens’ homes were only fleecing them. “They neither complied with norms of the government nor provided us with facilities that were promised. When we raised our voice, the promoter threatened and harassed us by not even providing food and other facilities,” said Sachdev, retired vice-president of an IT company in Chennai. Based on the complaints from the residents, the registration of the foundation that was running the senior citizen’s home was cancelled recently by the district registrar for non-compliance of government rules.

 It is not just Tapovan that has come under the scanner of the district administration but several other senior citizens’ homes in the district. President of the Tapovan resident welfare association N P Iyer said that a major problem with these senior citizen homes was that the promoters act like dictators. “They just do not want to be questioned. They raised the food charges and when we sought accounts, we were not provided with food. They stooped down to the level of stopping housekeeping services as well. Many of the old people staying here are single and had no other choice but to work. We had to involve the police and government officials,” he said.
 
 The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Monday asked the state government to create awareness on the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007 so that they are aware about the protection available to them. 
 
 S Krishnamurthy, 82, a resident of Dhyanaprastha Foundation in Vadavalli, said that this was the condition of hundreds of other senior citizens settled in various homes in Coimbatore. “Many are financially dependent on children, so they silently suffer. When we buy the property, the promoter shows us a different picture and the reality is very different,” he said.
 
 Several senior citizens said the land housing the home was not DTCP approved and was agricultural land. “Only when issues are raised by activists, we got to know about it,” said a senior citizen.
 
 District social welfare officer   said, “Promoters are definitely not doing their duty. But there is lack of clarity on how to enforce the government order. Residents expect us to enforce and take action but we can only take the legal course. Promoters say they needn’t obey us. We will soon convene a meeting and try to bring some clarity on this issue,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, chairman of Tapovan senior citizen foundation M N Varadharajan said, “We have applied for registration in May last year but we did not get any reply. The GO was issued only in 2016 but these homes were built before that. They have issued a cancellation order based on the complaints from non-members which are false. We have provided replies to all allegations and we have sought a personal hearing as well. We have a legal recourse and we will take that.” Regarding the agreements, he said, “The GO came in 2016 and these agreements were made before that.” 
 
 Many other residents, who were worried about their future after deregistration, said that they do not have much issues. “Just a few residents are creating problems. We are all old and we do not have the energy to face this,” said a resident.
 
 President of Tapovan Senior Citizen’s Foundation S   said there are some improvements that could be made. 
 
 Secretary of Dhyanaprastha Foundation R Venkatraman said a few residents were tarnishing their image. “We have all the facilities and every account is transparent. More than 315 families stay here and none have any complaints,” he said. 
 
 
