Indore: A large number of dowry   cases are being registered in the city. Every two days, on an average, at least one case is registered by women against their in-laws. 

 This year, 70 cases of   harassment were registered till April 31. However, in 2017, on an average 52 cases were registered in four months. It indicates that there has been an increase of 26% in the number of dowry harassment cases. In the past ten days of May, nine cases have been registered. 
 
 Police officials and city-based advocates attributed the rising number of cases to awareness among people. They also claimed that this section of the   is widely being misused by people resulting in increase in the number of cases.
 
 “The awareness about the IPC sections has increased and the women now feel free to approach police. Earlier they used to be bound by social stigma but now the situation has changed. This is one reason for increase in dowry harassment cases. I have noticed that even when the society is advancing with time, people still have a very backward mentality. Even now they expect women to bring dowry from their parents,” criminal lawyer Kashu Mahant told TOI. 
 
 “Apart from Indore, we get cases from different cities and nearby areas like Gautampura and Depalpur as well,” said Mahila police station in-charge   adding that even when the complainants have to travel long distance, they do not shy away from coming to the police station. 
 
 “There are many instances when women misused the dowry harassment law to take revenge. However, this is a part of investigation. A case is registered whenever we receive a complaint. We then verify the facts,” said Sharma. 
 
 Sharma said, since 2014, the complaints have increased manifolds. “The total number of complaints we used to get in 2014 would not exceed 2,000 but in 2017, we had recorded over 5,000 complaints,” Sharma told TOI.
 
 Most of these complaints were related to dowry harassment and domestic violence. However, of them, only 181 cases were registered in 2017 which means that most of the cases were solved with counselling of both the parties. 
 
 “16 rape and four harassment cases were registered in 2017 and rest 161 cases were related to dowry harassment or domestic violence,” said Sharma.
 
 
