At   ( ), when the budding cricketers were busy honing their skills with coaches, a 31-year-old athletic cricketer quietly came and started working on his fitness.

 
 Nearly forty-five minutes later, after cool down, he picked a ball and had some catching practice. A strict fitness regime has become part of his life. It's not easy to keep calm and stay motivated when the selectors are ignoring you continuously. However,   is unperturbed about regular snubbing by   mandarins. "When you bowl 20-25 overs a day and then to open, it's a challenging job and you can't do it without supreme fitness," Saxena told TOI.
 
 The 31-year-old allrounder last played for India 'A' in February 2013 and bagged five wickets, including a four-wicket haul, against the touring Australia team. Since then, he has won BCCI's best allrounder award twice in the last three years and will be in contention for the next year as well with the kind of performances he has given this year.
 
 Jalaj is the top wicket-taker this season with 44 wickets at an average of 17.11, taking three five-wicket and two ten-wicket hauls. Besides, he scored 522 run at an average of 52.20, hitting one century and three half-centuries and played big part in Kerala-who reached the   quarterfinal for the first time-success. In fact, his match aggregate of 184 runs and 10-145 against team Rajasthan this season is a Ranji Trophy record, surpassing  's 183 and 10-119.
 
 However, despite consistent performance, this promising allrounder is not only getting ignored by the selectors but also from the   franchises. This year too, none of the franchises showed any interest in him. "I don't know what more should I do to get noticed," Jalaj said.
 
 Jalaj migrated to Kerala last year to get his performance noticed. "If I needed to recognize my performances, I thought best thing will be to bring up any small team. I had been doing that for MP but I wanted more challenge. It gives you more responsibility. I think it happened this year. Kerala qualified for the quarterfinal for the first time. I hope this year, I will get due recognition," the 31-year-old said.
 
 Jalaj has been one of prolific cricketers in the Indian domestic circuit for the last five years. In 2012-13, he was among the top run getters with 769 runs while opening and bagged 10 wickets.
 
 Next season, he had scored 545 runs and claimed 35 wickets, while in 2014-15 he made 583 runs and picked up 17 wickets. In 2015-16, Jalaj raised the bar and 591 runs at an average of 44.16, while bagged 49 wickets at 20.30, including a 16-wicket haul against Railways, the second-best figures in Ranji Trophy history. In the last six years, he has scored runs at an average of 46 and taken 160 wickets.
 
 "I have performed well for India 'A' against West Indies and New Zealand. In these years, I have performed well in all the big matches. I did well in Duleep Trophy semifinal and final when Central Zone emerged champions. I have taken a five-wicket haul in 2012 Duleep final. I don't know why I was out of reckoning suddenly. I was part of the Mumbai Indians set-up but didn't get to play any match. I can only control the controllable," he said with a wry smile on his face.
 
 From the time he started playing cricket, Jalaj had a passion to play for the country. He said that passion is still there. "I have confidence that I will play and perform for my country. I don't know how, where and when but I feel it will happen…that belief is still very strong. I am working very hard and doing everything it takes to play at that level. I play Chennai League after Ranji Trophy and after that I go to Dhaka for One-day league. When there are no matches, I work hard on my fitness. I have cleared Yoyo test. The benchmark for Team India is 17 above and mine is 17.2," said Jalaj.
 
 With lots of India 'A' tours these days, Jalaj is hoping to get opportunity, at least to fail.
 
