Actor Jayasurya has stayed away from talking about his upcoming film ‘Njan Marykutty’ for a reason. ‘It was easy to get out of the character, but not get back in. I chose to not talk about it until the film was over,’ he says. In the film, Jayasurya plays a transwoman, and we got to see only a photo of the actor in a sari, looking very demure. Now that the film is over, Jayasurya gives a lowdown on what went into preparing for the movie and acting as a transwoman. 

 
 
 
 It came about by accident.   happened to meet a makeup artist who accompanied an actress once, a transwoman. It’s been a while since the thought has been on Ranjith Sankar’s mind. At first, we planned it as a comedy, but it later evolved into a film with a message. But we were always clear that the film should not hurt the trans-community in any way, that they should also feel happy after watching it. All I can say is that it will be a gift to transgender people.
 
 
 
 
 When we mentioned the theme, the immediate question people asked was – Is it like   or Mayamohini? Well, it is like neither. Chandupottu is not about transgender people. It is about an effeminate man. He would never fall in love with a woman otherwise. Mayamohini was a man who dresses up as a woman. Marykutty is a man who is a woman in mind and body, who has gone through a sex change surgery. Her thoughts are completely different from that of the characters in the earlier films.
 
 
 
 
 Well, it truly has been the most challenging film in my career. I have often said that Captain has been the film for which I have taken the maximum effort – mental or physical. Whether it was Captain, Shaju Pappan or Punyalan, there was a lot of strain and pain involved, but they were ultimately men. Here the very soul is that of a woman. I believe the effort was beyond all that for this film.
 I met and spoke to several transpersons, but if I mimicked them, it will be an imitation of someone else, not Marykutty. Marykutty’s circumstances and dreams are completely different.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 The first thing I did was to put a stop to my daily gym visit.
 I would shave my face thrice a day during the shoot since facial hair would be the most visible. But towards the end of the shoot, I developed some kind of a skin problem. If I sit in a chair I will get its marks on my skin now. I’m on medication now. I thought it was due to the heat, and still don’t know the reason but we are assuming that my skin has become over sensitive after the continuous shaving.
 
 
 
 
 Well, it had to, right? But my mind was always sensitive.
 
 
 
 
 We wanted to break the stereotypical ‘woman’s look’ and have not used too much make-up for Marykutty. My wife and her sister were always with me, dressing me up in saris, putting on my nail polish etc. If I used to ask: ‘Where’s my shirt’ or ‘Where’s my mundu’ earlier to my wife, now it was ‘Where’s my sari and blouse?’ or Where’s my underskirt?’. It was an entirely new experience and of course, a once-in-a-lifetime one.
 After wearing a sari, I have started wondering: How on earth do women walk in the hot sun or attend a wedding in a sari? It’s so painful. You become immobile as well.
 
 
 
 I’m not bad at it now (laughs). 
  
 
 
 
 Well, I don’t know if I changed. Only others will notice that. It’s not something I did consciously. Your body language automatically changes when you do a role like this.
 There was a poignant moment when makeup artist  , a transperson, came to the set once. She saw me and her eyes welled up. I felt at that moment that there was no difference between the two of us.
 But it’s true that I felt different during the shoot. And it went back to normal only after the shoot was over. It is easy to get out of this character, but not so to get into it. So I did not get out of it in between. I can say I travelled through a transwoman’s mental state in the process. It’s up to the viewer to decide the rest.
 
 
 
 I’m not supposed to reveal much about the story. It’s about the life of a transgender person, but we don’t even like to call them by that term. Whatever you expect from a movie on transgender people won’t be there in this one, I can assure you.
 I could see and understand a whole new world and understand transpeople. That’s the biggest and best takeaway for me.
 
  
 
 
