Nagpur: Amravati has come on the map of   in Vidarbha.

 The first-ever live kidney transplant (father to son) was performed here on Wednesday at Regional Referral Service Hospital (RRSH), a super speciality hospital run by the directorate of health services, Maharashtra government.
 
 However, the transplant was performed by Nagpur team. It is the first transplant in any public health department in the state.
 
 Dr Shyamsunder Nikam, medical superintendent of RRSH and civil surgeon of Amravati district, told TOI that there are only two RRSHs in state, one at Amravati and other at Nashik, which provided tertiary care services in super specialities.
 
 The Amravati hospital, which has been there since 2008, has urology, paediatrics and plastic surgery. The permission for transplant was granted by the authorization committee of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Yavatmal.
 
 “The hospital got permission for organ retrieval and transplant about a year ago. But we didn’t have a patient till now. Now that we got a patient, we took help of Nagpur urosurgeon while our urosurgeons helped him,” Nikam said.
 
 The kidney was donated by a 58-year-old father (Goverdhan Taori) to his 32-year old handicapped son (polio patient) Shrikant. The family hails from Jamodh in Buldhana district. But Shrikant and his brother Jitendra have been living in Amravati for the past six years. The patient is assistant branch manager at Buldhana Urban Cooperative Bank.
 
 “My brother’s kidneys failed about 15 months ago. He was on dialysis since then. We tried to get the transplant done at a private hospital in Nagpur but didn’t have enough money. Now, the surgery has been done under Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojna. But I had to pay for the diagnosis tests. I am thankful to the doctors who have given my brother a new lease of life,” said Jitendra Taori.
 
 Nephrologist Dr Sameer Chaubey said the hospital has state-of-the-art facilities for the transplant. “I am impressed by the infrastructure at the hospital. It was good to launch the transplant programme in Amravati,” he said.
 
 Dr Sanjay Kolte, senior urosurgeon, who performed the transplant said he was proud to launch the transplant programme at Amravati. “Now, patients in Amravati and neighbouring districts can get transplants done here. The infrastructure here is good but needs some more developments to suit transplantation,” he said.
 
 The team of doctors at RRSH included Dr Rahul Potode, Dr Vikram Deshmukh and Dr Vishal Bahekar, Dr Avinash Chaudhary, Dr Nikhil Badnekar, Dr Vikram Kokate and Dr Saurabh Lande.
 
 
