PATNA: Bihar CM   has welcomed the schemes related to agriculture, healthcare and education sectors announced in the   on Thursday.

 “I would like to congratulate the government for the Budget provisions for agriculture and healthcare sectors. A National Health Protection Scheme providing health insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh a family per annum and covering 10 crore families is a huge initiative,” Nitish said.
 
 On the proposal for hike in minimum support price (MSP) for farmers, Nitish said, “I welcome the decision to calculate the MSP for procurement of Kharif (monsoon) crops by adding 50% to the production cost, which would make the MSP 1.5 times of the input cost. I congratulate the finance minister for announcing the implementation of the MSP hike from this year.” 
 
 Nitish said he, after decades, could not listen to the full Budget speech as he had to attend an official event at Patna and another programme at  . “However, based on what I heard in the speech about the agriculture, health and education initiatives, I can say that the finance minister deserves applause on these counts,” the CM said.
 
 Meanwhile, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said several policies announced by Union finance minister   in the Budget would help Bihar in a big way. 
 
 “The budget has addressed the needs of villages, farmers, senior citizens, women and salaried people, as well as those representing small and medium enterprises. The Rs 5 lakh per family per year health insurance will help 50 crore people in the country,” he said, adding Bihar will also benefit from Rs 10,000 crore allotted by the Centre for the infrastructure development in the fishery sector.
 
 He said the policy to issue   (KCCs) to the farmers engaged in the fishery and animal husbandry sectors was yet another new prescription that would benefit the state. In “The Budget announcement to fix the minimum support price of foodgrain at one and half times of the cost of production is also aimed at addressing the concerns raised by the farmers,” he said.
 
 
