HYDERABAD: Central Pollution Control Board has issued show cause notices for the closure of ITC paper boards and speciality paper division at  , the most significant paper industry, for violation of pollution rules.

 A certain chemical percentage in treated effluents released into Godavari River is not complying with the standards. There are other violations regarding storage of hazardous wastes found in the plant at Bhadrachalam in  .   chairman SP  , in the show cause notice issued under section 5 of Environment Protection Act, asked the company that why the company can’t be closed down until the pollution control measures are planned and implemented to comply with the prescribed effluent discharge and emission standards to the satisfaction of the board.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “The unit was found not complying in lime kiln-3 with the emission standard as prescribed by Telangana PCB. It was also found noncomplying percentage of sodium in the treated final effluent,” said the notice.
 
 The final combined   treated effluent analysis found that the unit is complying with the discharge norms for all parameters except percent sodium. Even at the discharge point of the river, sample found non-compliance of sodium percentage. The stack attached with 300 ton per day lime kiln-3 was found exceeding the limit prescribed for particulate matter at 205 Mg/Nm3 as against the prescribed norms of 50 Mg/ Nm3 which is a violation of the Telangana PCB standards. The hazardous waste is stored in scrap yard along with other wastes in an open area though they are required to be stored in a separate shed. The unit has to provide water sprinkling arrangement on coal heaps stored in open area temporarily to avoid fugitive emissions. The group was asked to employ qualified and trained human resources in the lab for ambient and source monitoring. The findings are pertaining to series of inspections by CPCB officials.
 
 The spokesperson of ITC said " ITC is globally acknowledged for its environmental stewardship. All our units are mandated to conform to the highest possible standards of environmental performance. We have examined the couple of parameters highlighted in the notice and have already suitably responded to CPCB."
 
