PATNA: With the election of two more RJD members to state legislative council, former CM   is all set to become the leader of opposition in the  .

 Last year, the legislative council had rejected the RJD’s request to appoint   as the leader of opposition on the plea that the party did not have the required number of members needed for the post. Then, the party had only seven MLCs.
 
 Earlier, RJD’s Gulam Gaus was given the status of leader of opposition when the party had a strength of nine in the council.
 
 Quoting the precedence of Gulam Gaus, acting chairman of legislative council Haroon  , while rejecting the RJD’s request in August 2017, had pointed out that a strength of minimum nine MLCs is required for the post of leader of opposition in the Upper House. But as per the council’s rule, a party in the opposition should have minimum 10 members in the house to make a claim for the post of leader of opposition. “But in the same rule, the chairman has been given some discretionary powers to grant the status of leader of opposition,” a senior   said. 
 
 Though Rabri’s six-year current term in the council is set to expire on May 6, she along with Ram Chandra Purbey and Syed Khurshid Mohammad Mohsin was declared elected unopposed again on Thursday. She and other elected RJD members will take oath of council membership after May 6, leading the party’s strength to 9.
 
 RJD sources said once the party has 9 MLCs after May 6, it would again request the council’s acting chairman for appointment of Rabri as the leader of opposition.
 
 When contacted, Rashid told TOI on Friday he would take a call when the matter is brought before him. 
 
 Rabri’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is the leader of opposition in the assembly. “Once Rabri is notified as the leader of opposition in the council, it will be for the first time in the history of state legislature that mother-son duo will be leader of opposition in both the houses,” said a state assembly official. 
 
 BJP’s Sushil Kumar Modi was the leader of opposition in the 75-member Upper House during Nitish-led Grand Alliance government in the state. But when Nitish dumped the grand alliance on July 26 last year and formed a new government with   on July 27, the RJD, with its seven members, came in the opposition bench. 
 
 
