PUNE: The scepticism surrounding   has compelled   ( ) to ignore the recording at its current weather observatory in this station.

  
  
 
 The met department has installed a new observatory, about one and a half km from the old one in   to record temperatures. The new observatory is currently under assessment for monitoring the temperatures. IMD officials did not divulge the exact location.
 
 Bhira is in   district and along the Konkan coast. Such hot weather does not usually prevail in coastal stations as the cool sea breeze tends to moderate the temperatures.
 
 Last year, and again this March, Bhira hit the news for excessively high temperatures reported from the old IMD observatory even though summer had barely begun.
 
 The old observatory recently recorded a day temperature of 45 degrees celsius. A senior met department official told TOI that the observations from the existing station have been discontinued temporarily.
 
 “We are in touch with the state government for another site in Bhira for temperature monitoring. We have put up a temporary weather observatory and are undertaking some surveys of the new location and observing the latest data from the new location,” the official said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The IMD wants to eliminate doubts surrounding Bhira’s high temperature readings. “We want to know if the temperatures recorded at the old location follow the same trend as readings from the new observatory,” he said.
 
 The temperature observations have not even started at the new observatory. “We need to depute some more meteorologists and train them. It will take some time. Shifting of an observatory and getting temperature readings is a complex process and the data cannot be provided in a day’s time. It requires parallel observations and corrections with other technicalities involved. If a good site is not available, then we have to decide whether to continue the observations or go out of Bhira,” the official said.
 
 A team of IMD officials visited the region last year to double-check if the observatory was showing accurate readings. They checked the readings taken by the local authorities and found the temperatures to be similar.
 
 They concluded that it was because the Sahyadri ranges surrounding Bhira and its predominant rock being basalt was heating up the village.
 
