Vijayawada:   vehicles has become a big problem in the city as paid parking provided by the   Municipal Corporation ( ) is failing to serve the purpose, while roads in the city are facing severe traffic congestion with vehicles parked on both sides.

 Meanwhile, VMC is losing income from parking fees because of malpractices done by the contract workers. The number of vehicles, mainly cars, has increased in the recent time after the city became part of capital of Andhra Pradesh. Motorists are shying away from certain roads because of poor parking spaces available there. Majority of commercial complexes on Mahatma Gandhi road and Eluru road doesn't have parking spaces and denizens visiting them are parking their vehicles on the streets.
 
 “I had parked my car on Eluru road at Ramamandiram circle and returned within five minutes. Police issued me a challan for wrong parking and I had to pay a fine. VMC should provide proper parking on the main roads or at least construct parking complexes in commercial areas,” demands Kakaraparti Venkateswara Rao, a businessman. The few private personnels employed to collect parking fees at major parking spots in the city including Kaleswara Rao market and Vastralatha are generating losses for VMC by indulging in malpractices. The civic body which is proposing to implement smart parking in the city has stopped calling tenders for paid parking and deployed a few workers to collect parking fees. Taking advantage of the situation workers are collecting parking fees without issuing tokens. Recent raids conducted by vigilance officials exposed that workers diverted huge amount of money by collecting parking fees without issuing tokens. Vigilance officials said that they will probe records in VMC to estimate the amount diverted by the workers and they have also expressed doubts about involvement of a few civic body employees.
 
 Estates wing of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation is serious on this issue and has started a probe. Municipal commissioner J Nivas is serious on the issue and asked officials to speed up smart parking works in the city. Engineering wing of VMC which is monitoring the works of smart parking in the city.
 
 
