BATHINDA: During a search of the office of former   jail deputy superintendent   on the jail premises on Monday, the vigilance bureau seized incriminating material and suspicious documents. Vigilance officials found 22 bundles of  , 97 habit-forming tablets (mainly alprex), 22 mobile phones of different makes and seven SIM cards, apart from other documents.

 Vigilance bureau   at Mansa Manjit Singh Sidhu told TOI, “Taking along policemen from the district we conducted searches in the office of jail deputy superintendent. When the sealed almirah was searched, we found bidis, tablets and mobile phones. These have been handed over to   police station to register a separate case. The materials found from the almirah will be checked thoroughly by the district police while the documents will be checked by vigilance.”
 
 Sources said the items seized from Gurjit’s almirah were being supplied to inmates for a price. During investigations it came to the fore that the jail authorities were charging Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 per month per cell/barracks for providing a range of services, which included choice cell/barracks, facility to use mobile phones and even drugs. The almirah was sealed by vigilance bureau on December 17, 2017, when a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against him, assistant jail superintendent   and murder convict Vijay Kumar.
 
 Both Sikandar and Pawan were arrested by the bureau on December 17, but Gurjit absconded and had been evading arrest since then. On May 19, he surrendered in the court when proceedings to declare him a proclaimed offender (PO) were under way. A day earlier on May 18, the vigilance bureau had also arrested jail superintendent   in the case.
 
 Mansa DSP Karanbir Singh confirmed that incriminating material seized from Gurjit’s office almirah had been deposited by the vigilance bureau. “Police will take opinion from a drug inspector and other appropriate authorities about the seized items and accordingly a case will be registered,” he added.
 
 
