

 The $70-billion   services industry in India has been going through a difficult period over the last few quarters. Price cap on medical devices such as stents and knee caps have dented profits significantly. The outlook does not seem any brighter either with news of a potential “cap on profits” by the government on all pharmaceutical products and medical devices billed to patients.
 
 While the short-term situation looks grim, there couldn’t be a better sector in the long term. The macro story for healthcare delivery is very much intact. The sheer demand in the country will ensure good growth for the industry. The greenfield opportunity is vast, but so is the brownfield and consolidation opportunity. As an investor, scale is one of the single biggest challenges in this sector. Very few players in India have managed to scale with often doctors splitting up with their current affiliated institutions to start their own hospitals. Even today, Apollo, the largest hospital chain, has less than 1% market share in terms of number of beds.
 
  is one of the biggest healthcare services asset in the country — second largest in terms of revenues and third largest in terms of number of beds. Fortis also owns majority of SRL, which is the second-largest diagnostics services company in the country. No surprises that there have been several interested bidders for the asset. There are many factors for the board to consider here — price is of course important — but at the end of the day, the decision of selecting the winning bidder should be beneficial to all stakeholders. The issue is the company has received several bids but none of them are comparable in terms of apples to apples. While some bids suggest a share swap, others offer some money initially and the rest after diligence. The fundamental reason for these varied bids is that various parties have had differential information about the company at multiple points of engagement. The board has allegedly not provided a level playing field to the bidders, leading to shareholders questioning the credibility and independence of the board construct.
 
 After dithering over the decision for a couple of months, the board decided to go ahead with the bid submitted by the Munjal-Burman combine, a bid that is perceived to be inferior in not only price and investment quantum but also domain expertise to the IHH and Manipal offers. This could create a massive overhang on the company’s stock price as the winning bid consists of only primary infusion and provides no exit mechanism to minority shareholders via an open offer. The Munjal-Burman bid may end up being a good deal for all parties but it should have been conducted in a more transparent manner to avoid a backlash.
 
 The question which arises is that was the board functioning and governance standards fair and equitable in evaluating the merits and demerits of each proposal, or was it an exercise in self-indulgence and self-preservation of the current board? If the board had no hidden agenda, it should have granted all bidders equal access to the same information and diligence for a limited period of two-three weeks and then let bidders arrive at the fair value for the asset by the end of a defined period — which is what all the bidders had asked for in the first place. Let’s not forget that Deloitte, the statutory auditors of the company, has already red-flagged some serious performance lapses, penalties likelihood and non-governance practices.
 
 However, by selecting a bid offering a perceived inferior price and quantum and putting it to vote, the board has created unnecessarily additional risk in case the shareholders vote against the selected bidder. This would delay the entire process and create further liquidity constraints on the company, which is already suffering a complete cash crunch.
 
 All eyes will now be on the EGM scheduled for May 22, where the shareholders will decide the fate of the company. IHH and Manipal have already publicly stated that it will seek the support of all shareholders, including the minority ones, to overturn the board’s decision. Whatever eventually happens at Fortis, one can say with certainty that the battle is not yet over and there is still more to come in this game of thrones. Hopefully, it won’t degenerate into a game of thorns and that there will be no winners’ curse.
 
 All stakeholders should focus on Fortis getting the much needed investment and leadership immediately to embark on the process of reinventing itself. But for that to happen, the older members of the board have to be necessarily disembarked as soon as possible.
 
 (The author is partner,  . Views expressed are personal)
 
 
