PATNA: Dermatologists on Sunday stressed on the need to create awareness about   and disintegrate it from other public health programmes.

 In 2005, India had officially declared to have eliminated leprosy when new cases fell to less than one per 10,000 population. But as per WHO’s Global Health Observatory data repository, India registered 1,35,485 confirmed cases of leprosy in 2016.
 
 The countries that registered its prevalence were India, Brazil, Central Africa, Nepal, and  . “India accounts for nearly 60% of the new cases in the world. Most of these cases are found in   and  ,” said dermatologist Dr   at a continuing medical education (CME) by Indian Association of Dermatologists, Venereologists and Leprologists (IADVL) — Bihar Branch, on Sunday. 
 
 He said one of the main reasons behind the resurgence of the disease is that government has stopped providing free medication for leprosy. “The declaration of elimination was only on paper. House-to-house survey was also stopped. Thus, new cases were not registered. Their immediate diagnosis and subsequent treatment were also hampered,” said Dr Amar.
 
 Dermatologists in the country have recently observed an abnormality in the disease as compared to its earlier version. 
 
 Dr Sujai   from Hyderabad, who has a 30-year experience in diagnosing leprosy, said a new multibacillary form of the disease has emerged over the years which takes longer to be treated. 
 
 “Patients are more prone to develop deformities. The spread of the airborne infection is also heightened. Children are being easily affected. We have seen children as young as one year being diagnosed,” he said. He added a vaccine called Mycobacterium indicus pranii (MIP), an exclusive vaccine for leprosy, had been developed in India. “It is still in trial stages. It will be a great step if we are able to effectively wipe out leprosy,” he said.
 
 Talking about its another unusual form, Dr Suneetha said a pure neural leprosy has also become common in the Indian population. As there are no skin patches, early detection of the disease becomes difficult. The disease is often misdiagnosed as other neurological conditions. 
 
 
