The Rajasthan auditions for   co-powered by Sephora and   took place at   store at Pink Square Mall, Jaipur. The event was a huge success with over 80 contestants from Jaipur and other neighbouring cities participating in the auditions. Continuing the same format this year, Miss India in its 55th edition is touring to all 30 states to crown 30 state representatives, who will then compete for the coveted crown. Miss World 2017 Manushi Chhillar was definitely the inspiration for most young girls who followed Manushi’s journey from being the fbb Colors Femina Miss India World 2017 to winning the Miss World crown. The state-wise auditions this year were based on the concept – my state and my purpose.

  
  fbb Colors Femina   and   (Shalini Maheshwari/BCCL)
 
 The judges for the Rajasthan auditions were fashion designer Rohit Kamra and fbb   2017 Aditi Hundia. Both judges faced the tough task of selecting three finalists. Rohit, who has judged the contest in the past too, said, “It was a very difficult task judging these girls as they are so talented. A piece of advice for these girls – ‘Don’t give up on your dreams, always work hard and chase them.’” While Aditi added, “I was a contestant last year, who was very shy and not so confident. I’m grateful to the Miss India organisation for grooming me and making me a more confident and an independent individual.”
  
  contestants at the Jaipur auditions (Shalini Maheshwari/BCCL)
 
 The three selected contestants are Muskan Golash, Yogita Bihani and Sonkashi Singh Rawat (fbb Campus Princess 2018 finalist). Sonakshi said, “For me, it has been a childhood dream to win the pageant and now I feel I’m one step closer to the dream.” Muskan, a software graduate, said, “When I came for the auditions, I didn’t bother much with the results and decided to accept it with a positive attitude. This positive approach made it easier for me to secure a place among the top three contestants.” Yogita added, “I started preparing for the contest a few months ago. Being myself helped me bag a position among the top three contestants.”
 The top three finalists will be trained and groomed by experts in the industry and will get a chance to meet their mentor Pooja Hegde at the West Zonal crowning ceremony to be held in Pune at the Hyatt Regency on May 13. 
 Watch your state finalists at the finale of fbb Colors Femina Miss India West 2018, live on JioTV on May 13, 9pm onwards. For more information and to apply for Miss India, log on to www.missindia.in.
 
 
 
 
