CHANDIGARH: While Punjab power and irrigation minister   Singh’s fate is yet to be decided in the meeting between chief minister   and   president   in New Delhi on Thursday, a review of the state government’s fulfilment of poll promises so far would also be done at the same time.

 There have been unconfirmed reports that Rana Gurjeet put in his paper only after Rahul had expressed displeasure at the Congress government losing face due to the allegations against the minister, even though he was given a clean chit by the Justice Narang commission.
 
 After Rana Gurjeet resigned on moral grounds for his alleged involvement in the sand mining scam on January 4, Amarinder said a final decision would be taken only after discussing it with party high command.
 
 “Rana Gurjeet is considered close to Amarinder, but he is still most likely to be dropped if the party high command has already made up its mind. The directions seem to have come from the top. Otherwise, an expansion of council or ministers is round the corner and he could have been given less important portfolios,” said a Congress leader.
 
 “With illegal sand mining being a key poll plank of the Congress, which even prompted the party to introduce e-bidding, the campaign against the power minister had become a sore point, especially with many politicians having stakes in the sand mining trade. There has been a feeling that Rana Gurjeet would be dropped to put a lid on the controversy but the chief minister is believed to have stood firmly behind him,” said another party leader.
 
 Sources said the party leaders would also brief Rahul about the launch of the debt waiver scheme for farmers as a key point from the party’s manifesto, besides cheaper power to the industry at Rs 5 tariff. However, the state government has been repeatedly pointing out that with its coffers empty, there is not much roof left to launch its ambitious schemes promised in the manifesto.
 
 Mayors to be decided with local feedback
 
 Chief minister Amarinder Singh, who was in Delhi on Wednesday, held a meeting with senior party leaders on the newly-elected corporations in three cities. It was decided that the observers appointed by the party will hold discussions with the local leaders and newly-elected councillors in Patiala, Jalandhar and Amritsar and decided on the mayor.   are likely to be given due representation with the posts of mayors or deputy mayors.
 
 
