RAJKOT: Heavy arrival of onions before Holi festival triggered a drastic fall in the price of the commodity leading to shutdown of Bhavnagar Market Yard, considered to be one of the largest market in the country after   in Maharashtra. Onion price on Monday nearly halved to Rs 150-170 per 20kg from Saturday’s rate of Rs 350-300 per 20kg. Farmers refused to sell their produce at such a low rate.

 The average daily arrival in Bhavnagar market is 1.5 lakh bags (50kg each). During the November to April season, an average of 25 lakh bags to 30 lakh bags come for auction at the marketing yard. This season, onion was cultivated in 24,800 hectare against 27,000 hectare last year. 
 
 D S Royla, secretary of Bhavnagar marketing yard, said, “One of the main reasons for the drastic fall is heavy influx of onions from Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh in the domestic market. Earlier, onions from Gujarat were going to southern and northern states but now southern states get onions from Maharashtra, while northern states are covered by the onions from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.”
 
 According to market yard authorities, on Saturday, there were 1 lakh unsold bags and on Monday 80,000 more bags arrived for auction creating an imbalance in demand and supply. 
 
 D  , former secretary of Mahuva market yard in Bhavnagar, said, “Sudden arrival of huge stock in the market led to drastic fall. Till last week, because of marriage season farmers did not get labourers to bring the commodity to the market yard. Also, with the Holi festival during the weekend followed by marriage season again, farmers want to sell off their produce to get more cash ahead of the festival. This has led to fall in prices.”
 
 However, former chairman of Bhavnagar Market Yard Bhikhabhai Zazadia feels the fall was a mere correction in prices. “The price was very high even after the season started in November. Price of Rs 300 to 400 per 20kg is the price for   season. When the new season starts in November, price falls, but this year it remained high till February. So, there was a sudden fall which was bound to happen.” 
 
 Farmers, however, disagreed with Zazadia’s argument. Ramji Mangukia, a farmer of Tana village of   in Bhavnagar, said, “Considering the input cost of seeds, pesticides and labour we can’t afford to sell onions at this low price.” He had come with 98 bags (20kg each) of onion. 
 
 Deepak Malani, chairman of Amreli APMC, said, “Even white onion price was down because of fall in export demand. There are few dehydration plants which have the monopoly in deciding price of white onions as it is mainly for export, while red onions are for local consumption.” 
 
 
