NAGPUR: On a hectic Tuesday, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court heard over 40 PILs concerning to various important issues. While it issued directives in many cases, a most of them were adjourned. The court grilled the government and civic bodies over failure to provide facilities.

 PDKV severs Botanical garden contract with developer
 
 A year after PIL was filed challenging Panjabrao Deshmukh Agriculture University’s (PDKV) controversial move to handover a part of its Satpuda Botanical Garden to a private party for commercial purposes, the university on Monday informed that it has annulled its contract with the developer.
 
 In an affidavit before submitted an affidavit before the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, the Akola headquartered university informed that the five-year contract with Vrundesh Developers for operating and maintaining it’s the garden was cancelled by it.
 
 A division comprising justices   and Swapna Joshi then scheduled the hearing after two weeks when the civic authorities are likely to declare the area of the garden as a ‘green zone’.
 
 Petitioner  , through counsel  , contended that the botanical garden is solely reserved for agriculture purpose and falls under the green zone. It commercialization would be a threat to biodiversity park, primarily meant for research and education of biology, zoology and environmental science students.
 
 What is govt policy on statues: HC
 
 Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court sought the government’s reply on whether there is any policy on erection of statues at public places and how much budget was allotted for it. It also wanted to know on whether the taxpayer’s money was splurged on installing statues. The poser came while hearing a PIL filed by social worker   (6181/2008) against illegal pandals, welcome gates, arches, stages of temporary nature, on roads due to inaction by the NMC, city police and other civic agencies.
 
 Why govt vehicles allowed to park on KP ground: HC
 
 Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court directed the Maharashtra government to reply on why it allowed the historic Kasturchand Park for parking government vehicles during winter assembly session. It also sought to know on whether, it had made any specific rules for such allotments.
 
 The poser came while hearing a suo motu PIL (No 45/2017) based on media reports alleging gross misuse of the historic park due to negligence of the district administration, who often rent it out for the commercial activities. Earlier, amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar while quoting police department’s November 16 letter, pointed out that they objected to conducting public meetings at the ground, as it is to be used for parking of vehicles during session. He contended that being Class-I heritage place, such user for parking is not permissible.
 
 HC stays NMC’s move on Sonegaon lake
 
 Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court granted an interim stay on NMC’s move to change the user of Sonegaon lake for providing compensation to its owners under Section 37 of MRTP Act, before adjourning the hearing till February 7. The directives came while hearing a PIL on civic body splurging crores on its beautification and maintenance, despite it being a private property. The PIL objected to NMC’s move to provide compensation to the owners — Dr Rekharani Bhiwapurkar and late Dr Sudha Sutaria — based on TDR. In October last year, the NMC’s general body passed a resolution for changing reservation of historic lake, as TDR can’t be granted on water body.
 
 “If no construction is possible on a water body, that land therefore, does not form part of plotable area within city, under NMC limits. It, therefore, can’t support any TDR. In this situation, for inability to pay compensation to owners, unavailable land (no land) can’t be converted into land by such an exercise. If the citizens of Nagpur are not in a position to afford water tank, the tank may continue with private owners,” the court stated.
 
 HC slaps Rs 5K fine on  
 
 Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court slapped a fine of Rs5,000 on District Bar Association (DBA) for failure to make its presence felt in a PIL (No 67/2015). It was filed by lawyer Manoj Sable through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar for directives to the PWD for construction of additional infrastructure like courts and bar rooms at ‘Suyog’ building premises for convenience of lawyers and litigants.
 
 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi on Wednesday, asked the registry to donate the fine amount to District Legal-Aid Services Authority. 
 
 The judges also sought state government’s reply on whether area of old high court building could be used for parking of lawyers and litigants vehicles. Around 1,700 sq meters area is available on this premises. 
 
 Earlier, the collector informed that the government had agreed to handover 0.22 hectares of forestland behind the District and Sessions Court here to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for parking. The judges then directed the government to complete formalities in four weeks and asked NMC to transfer the land to court administrative in next four weeks. 
 
 
