The audience in Bhopal seem to be agreeing more with Marathi plays that were showcased during the 12 days tenure of 8th Theatre Olympics. The   group, consisting of forty two student performers from   brought their grand Marathi production ‘Aadikatha’ on the second day. Written and directed by  , this play presented an amalgamation of eleven folklores from the tribal region of Maharashtra and beyond. The play presented many interesting tales like Maiya Duku the story about the first man on earth, Kuzalu the flute which sings melodious songs, Naralacha Janma- the story behind the existence of coconut trees, Badhaikhor Chimni why a king shoots a bird due to its babble, etc. 
  
  
 The presentation of the tribal folklore through dance and drama was appreciated by the audience. Simran Sharma, a theatre enthusiast and a regular at Bharat Bhawan shares, “Aadikatha was a fabulous dance-drama. Our country is so steeped in varied folk cultures that people sitting in MP are unaware of these interesting stories from other regions. No wonder the show was houseful.” 
  
  
 On the fifth day another Marathi play, Sukhanshi Bhandto Amhi directed by Napoleon Almedia was staged at Ravindra Bhawan. The play kept the audience hooked to the psychological drama unfolding for about two hours. Even though it did not have a large ensemble of characters, writer Abhiram Bhadkamkar made sure each character had a strong presence on stage. The story entwines two men and their families - one a successful and happy doctor who plans to build a hospital for more success and the other a convicted murderer suffering from schizophrenia and jailed for killing his wife and son during one of the attacks. 
  
  
 As the sessions between the doctor and his imprisoned patient proceed, many profound questions are thrown by the schizophrenic man to the doctor, which makes him rethink his concept of happiness. "The play shows the mirror to the current day high society, for whom happiness is the outcome of good moolah. This play compels the audience to think above materialistic happiness" shares director  , who also played the protagonaist Dr. Sridhar
  
  
 - Farzana Patowari
 Pics credit: Vishesh Sharma
 
