NAGPUR: A tiger was found dead in   (MTR) in  , while the death of a leopard near   on Wednesday has been shrouded in mystery.

 With one more tiger death, the toll in Maharashtra has gone up to 11 since January 1 this year, while that of leopard has mounted to over 30.
 
 The Melghat tiger, around 8 years old, was found dead in   range on April 9 by forest guard Chandrakiran Pendharkar. Veterinary doctors said the semi-putrefied carcass is 8-10 days old.
 
 The carcass was found near   nullah in Bhandum. The area was cordoned off and a preliminary search did not find any evidences of foul play, though Dhakna village in 4km away from the spot.
 
 On April 10, a team of officials and representatives, including veterinarians, reached the spot and conducted post mortem and the carcass was consigned to flames as per the NTCA guidelines.
 
 MTR field director MS Reddy ruled out poaching as all the body parts were intact. “There was no sign or evidence of cattle or water poisoning in the area for the past 10 days. Besides, the post mortem revealed that the tiger had consumed a wild boar,” said Reddy.
 
 He added that sniffer dogs too could not give any leads. The veterinarians are of the view that the death has occurred due to natural causes.
 
 In another development, death of a six-year-old leopard in Bhilewada on NH6 has been shrouded in mystery in Bhandara range.
 
 Deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) Vivek Hoshing said, “Prima facie, as told by veterinarian  , it seems to be a case of electrocution but only post mortem report can throw more light. There were no major external injuries to prove that the animal had died in road hit.”
 
 On the contrary, MSEDCL officials denied the leopard died due to electrocution. They said the 11kv Dhargaon feeder is at least 100 feet away from the spot where the leopard was found dead. “There is no tripping on 11kv line from 12.30 midnight from Wednesday,” they said.
 
 Wildlife NGOs suspected it to be case of hit-and-run as the leopard was found dead hardly 100 feet away from the highway, that too in an open field where there was no crop.
 
 
