In a significant development, the Union government is scheduled to hold tripartite talks on May 1 with the governments of   and Kerala in New Delhi to resolve pending interstate water disputes between the states. The first of such meeting convened by the NDA government seeks to resolve water disputes pending in the courts. Water resources secretaries of the states and senior officials will take part in the meeting convened by the   chairman S Masood Hussain to discuss renewal of Parambikulam Aliyar Project agreement, repairs to Shengabavalli Anicut (in Kerala near the inter-state border), Mullaperiyar dam and release of water from Neyyar dam (Kerala) to Kanyakumari halted by Kerala in 2004. 

 
 
 
 Hussain said the proposed meeting comes in the wake of regional conferenceof southernstates chaired by minister of state for water resources Arjun Ram Meghwal in Hyderabad in February.
 
 “We will hear arguments of each state and try to resolve the issues. The subjects are very technical and CWC will understand,” the chairman told TOI over phone. Tamil Nadu may also raise the issueof strengthening Mullaperiyar dam and restoration of power supply.
 
 The Parambikulam Aliyar Project (PAP) was executed between Kerala and Tamil Nadu on sharing of water to thewesterndistrictsof Tamil Nadu in May 1970. The agreement has to be reviewed after three decades and that has not been done yet. As per the agreement,   supplies 7.25tmcft of water at Manakadavu and12.3tmcft of water at Kerala’s Sholayar reservoir. In addition, full reservoir level has to be maintained in Sholayar on September 1 and February 1 of every water year.
 
 “Tamil Nadu demands diversion of 2.5tmcft from Anamalayar that flows through it and Kerala, besides, diversion of Nirar river (a portion of which runs through it) for the entire year as provided in the agreement,” said a senior official. Kerala’s contention is that Tamil Nadu violated constantly the agreement conditions regarding supply of water in Chitturpuzha valley and Sholayar valley (both within Kerala) and demanded review of agreements. The state also wants PAP subcommittee to review dam safety in all the dams covered in the network.
 
 In the Neyyar dispute, the previous Jayalalithaa government moved Supreme Court against Kerala for not honouring the existing arrangement for supplying water to the ayacut area of 9,200 acres. A draft agreement has been in circulation since 1971 with Tamil Nadu suggesting sharing of capital cost of a canal project, and Kerala agreeing to it. The latter, however, did not concede to the request for an agreement as suggested by TN.
 
 “For the first time—in 1999—Kerala took a standthat Neyyar is not an inter-state river,” said another official. In 2010, Kerala also demanded realization of water charges and payment of distribution charges and restricted the ayacut area to 4,600 acres. TamilNaduwill also raisetheissue of repair works to Kanyamadugu channel and Shenbagavalli anicut.
 
 The channel breached in 1971. The TN government paid the cost of repair work to Kerala in 1986. But, Kerala returned the deposit amount citing objection from its forest department as it was the core zone of Periyar Tiger Reserve.
 
 
 
 
