Ludhiana: At a time when the MC has started installation of rooftop solar panels on its buildings to save energy, the Guru Nanak Engineering College (GNE) has completed the extension of its already installed solar panels. The college had installed solar system having the capacity of 50kwp around two-and-a-half years. However, now they have extended the capacity to 200kwp. According to the college authorities, the extended system will be able to take 20% energy load of the institute. 

 The Punjab Energy Development Authority (PEDA) was the nodal agency for this project and after extending the capacity of the system, it has been handed over to the college authorities. The new solar panels have been installed at the administration and MBA blocks. The college had spent around Rs 75 lakh on the expansion of the system.
 
 The assistant professor electrical-cum-public relation officer of GNE Arvind Dhingra said they were satisfied with the previous system. Dhingra also said that with the new system, the college will be able to save around Rs 1.5 lakh every month in terms of electricity bills. He also shared that PEDA has handed over the system to them last month and its functional now. Dhingra added some of the college alumni inquired about the system and even Punjab state power corporation limited engineers had visited the college for the solar awareness program. 
 
 “It was grid connected without battery system in which the energy generated through solar panels must be consumed immediately as it cannot be stored,” said PEDA district head Anupam Nanda. He also said the college had received 30 % subsidy for the project. He shared that solar systems are getting popular gradually and more people are coming forward to install the same. In fact, some industrial houses have also got the solar panels installed.
 
 The Government College for Girls has a solar panel system having the capacity of 20kv. Also, one such system has already been installed at Punjab Agricultural University. A private company had installed the system. Even MC has started the installation of solar panels at some of its buildings for renewable energy generation. 
 
 
