CHENNAI: The move to install a smart traffic system, GPSdriven bus services and ICTbased traffic information for commuters under intelligent transport system (ITS) received a fillip as   (JICA) on Monday signed an agreement with the Centre to fund Rs500 crore for the project. It will be undertaken as part of the smart city project.

 In a release, JICA said the objective of the project is to construct an efficient traffic system to meet the increasing traffic demands in the   by installing ITS, mitigating traffic congestion and improving economic growth. “Once the project becomes operational, citizens of Chennai and adjacent areas will experience improved travel speed in the city centre and reduced queues at intersections,” the release said.
 
  
  
 
  is the executing agency of the project. Takemo Sakamoto, chief representative,   office, said the project would optimise the way traffic lights work and reduce long vehicle queues at the city’s main intersections. The project will also provide traffic information visual message signs or LED display boards to road and bus users.
 
 “City traffic has risen steeply with rapid urbanisation. While metro trains are one of the solutions, we are taking another step forward by introducing this new project to enhance mobility through the help of ICT based system,” he said.
 
 The statement further said, “The ITS-based traffic control system will benefit all road users — from private vehicle users to users of public transport, cyclists and even pedestrians. This project will be implemented within the right-of-way on the existing road network in Chennai, and will not affect the city’s natural or social environment,” the release said.
 
 Sujan R Chinoy, ambassador of India to Japan, and  , senior vice president, JICA, signed the loan agreement at the Likura House of the ministry of foreign affairs, Tokyo.
 
 JICA had already funded Rs11,000 crore as loans since 2008 for the development of around 52.4km of the metro rail system in the city.
 
