HYDERABAD: At a time when doctors in some southern states are trying to find an answer to the dreaded Nipah virus from spreading across the country, Telangana health officials are mulling to set up a state-of-the-art health facility on the campus of Sir   Institute   and   ( ) at Nallakunta to tackle infections with strong ammunition. Describing it as first such facility in the country, health authorities said it has answers to the pressing need for having ‘clean wards’.

 
 The clean ward facility would be meant exclusively for housing patients of infections like swine flu, zika, Ebola, Japanese encephalitis and the Nipah virus, apart from other deadly virulent outbreaks emerging in future.
 
 The facility would come up on a 12-acre land near the state-run Fever Hospital with triple safety layers for patients, nurses as well as doctors. It would be a secluded quarantine facility away from other patients. “The idea is to ensure that these deadly viruses do not spread to other patients, housed at the hospital,” a top official said.
 
 “We have proposed to set up the clean ward facility near Fever Hospital. The multibedded facility will need funds to the tune of ₹15 crore,” Institute of Preventive Medicine (IPM) director and superintendent, Fever Hospital, Dr K Shankar said.
 
 Many hospitals have a separate ward to quarantine patients with ‘unknown fever’ or infections, but the health department officials say the new facility would be a separate building. The proposal for setting up the ‘clean ward’ would be submitted to the state health department for clearance in the next few days, the official added.
 
 The Fever Hospital has about 12 acre land readily available on its campus, of which a few acres would be used for setting up the facility.
 
 “This discussion was on for a while. Every time there is a patient affected with swine flu or Ebola, we need to figure out where to keep the patient. Usually, the patients are rushed to Gandhi Hospital and, in many cases, the virus spreads to other patients also. With the clean ward facility, we will be able to curtail spread of these viruses from patient to patient,” a senior official from the state health department added.
 
