LUCKNOW: The 'Pari-War' in  's first family may soon be over, officially. About 20 months after SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and uncle   formally parted ways ahead of 2017 assembly elections, the Yadav clan is once again set to come together within the party as well. There are strong indications that Shivpal, who was sidelined in the party after Akhilesh Yadav took over the SP reins, is likely to be given a respectable post in the organizational set-up soon. 

 "Whatever responsibility will be entrusted to me, I will work hard to discharge my duties in the interest of the party," Shivpal told TOI, refusing to comment on the prospects of getting a senior post in the party. He said as a member of the SP, it was his responsibility to ensure that its principals and ideology is upheld. On differences in the Yadav clan, he said "everything has been sorted out". The latest sign of truce between the two sides came when Shivpal recently disbanded the Fan Club that came up in his support in the thick of the family feud. "When the party is united, there was no need of such platforms," he had told supporters.
 
 According to party sources, the patch-up exercise between Akhilesh and Shivpal began last month when the latter met senior SP leader Ram Gopal Yadav. The meeting, which was held in Delhi, ended on a positive note with Shivpal claiming that there were no differences in the Yadav Pariwar.
 
 Trouble in the Yadav clan surfaced in September 2016 following differences between party patriarch   Singh Singh and son Akhilesh Yadav who was then UP CM. In the bitter battle for control over the party, Mulayam had younger brother Shivpal by his side while Akhilesh was supported by Ram Gopal, who is a cousin of Mulayam and party's key strategist. The tussle saw Mulayam, who was then party chief, expelling Akhilesh and Ram Gopal from the party. However, the move was declared invalid by the   thereafter.
 
 Akhilesh formally dethroned Mulayam to become the SP national president on January 1, 2017. The family feud hit party's electoral prospects as SP faced a humiliating defeat in UP polls.
 
 
