BENGALURU: When Jayanthi   started fusion band, Indian Spice, the idea was to ‘show the world that Indian ragas and talas could be adapted to contemporary music’.

 “About 10-12 years ago, I got a call from someone who wanted to collaborate with me on a contemporary music project. I wasn’t really interested and it was my husband Kumaresh who suggested that I do it. He told me, “You always wanted to popularize veena, which is India’s national instrument, and to achieve that you need to take it out to different places, different audience. You need to show that it is still pertinent,” and that’s how Indian Spice started,” recalls Jayanthi.
 
 On Sunday morning, the veena virtuoso will perform as part of   Swarsangam. This will be the first time that this particular ensemble of musicians — D Praveen Rao, Pramath Kiran, Arun Kumar and Flute Butto— will be performing together. 
 
 “I have worked with these artistes at different performances over the years, and was thinking of getting them all together as one entity and it has happened now,” says Jayanthi.
 
 It is also the first time that the ensemble is experimenting with Indian and western instruments. “Usually, the set-up is classical with Indian instruments like ghatam and tabla along with veena and violin. This time, we have western instruments like cajun and djembe added to the mix. We will present each music instrument in its original and experimental formats. For instance, I will play Indian ragas on veena and then also play flamenco tunes on it,” she says.
 
 As a completely instrumental concert, most of the music that will be played at the one-and-a-half hour concert will be new, something that the audience haven’t heard before. “We want to keep it a surprise. It is going to be a different experience,” signs off Jayanthi. 
 
 Curated by  , the event is scheduled on March 24-25 at Chowdiah Memorial Hall, Bengaluru. Tickets available on Bookmyshow. There will also be an exhibition of Indo-western musical instruments by Indian Music Experience. 
 
 Times Swarsangam is powered by TTK Prestige and is an initiative of Times Red Cell. 
 
 
