NEW DELHI: A list of 33 senior advocates recommended by the Allahabad high court collegium for judgeship in the country’s largest high court has stoked a controversy with at least one-third of them allegedly related to sitting and retired judges of the   and the  .

 The law ministry received several complaints from the Allahabad and Lucknow bar against the recommendations and has asked the   (IB) for a background check on each of these lawyers, sources said.
 
 This is not the first time that recommendations made by the Allahabad HC collegium have raised eyebrows. In 2016, the HC had recommended names of 30 advocates for judgeship. After complaints from the bar and other quarters, then CJI T S   had rejected the candidature of 11 advocates, resulting in approval of only 19 names. The Centre, too, had validated the allegations through background checks by the IB.
 
 The fresh list of 33 names, sent in the last week of February, allegedly includes the brother-in-law of a sitting   judge, a first cousin of another SC judge besides sons and nephews of several former judges of the apex court and the Allahabad HC, sources said. In all, at least 10 advocates in the list of 33 are said to be related to former or sitting judges, besides a senior advocate who is allegedly the law partner of the wife of a senior politician in Delhi, sources added.
 
 The law ministry is also verifying if the HC collegium has given adequate representation to candidates from the SC/ST, OBC and minority communities, besides women. In the three lists of more than 83 recommendations made by the Allahabad HC since 2015, very few belonged to OBC/SC/ST, women or the minority community. 
 
 The controversy comes at a time when the Centre is demanding more transparency in appointment of judges. The SC has repeatedly refused to approve the draft memorandum of procedure (MoP) for appointment of judges prepared by the government. 
 
 The MoP has been pending with the SC collegium since last year. The government-proposed MoP has suggested a broader framework to create a pool of candidates from which the HC collegium could pick candidates, including a consultation mechanism where all judges of an HC or SC bench are consulted before shortlisting names.
 
 At present, only the chief justice of the HC, along with the two seniormost judges of the HC, form the collegium. It draws up a list of candidates and sends it to the SC collegium for its approval and recommendation to the government for appointment. A copy of the list is also sent by the HC collegium to the law ministry and the governor for background checks.
 
 
 
 
