KOLKATA: A woman in her early 30s, returning home from a New Year’s Eve party with her husband, was allegedly molested and forcefully dragged along from a moving car for about 50 metres before being dumped on the road.

 The incident occurred at the Prince   crossing in Kasba at 1.45am on Monday. Cops have started a manhunt for the alleged molester, who fled leaving his victim bruised and bleeding on the road.
 
 According to a complaint lodged with the   police, the woman said they were returning home to Netajinagar, Tollygunge, in their car after attending a party at PC Chandra Gardens. “The woman said the car in front of them was driving in a very dangerous manner, constantly zigzagging ahead,” said an officer. “When the cars stopped at a traffic light at the   crossing, she got off the vehicle and asked the driver to drive properly but the man allegedly abused her. When she protested, the driver pulled her inside the car and took a sharp right towards Ramlalbazar in Kasba,” he added.
 
 The suddenness of the incident left the woman’s husband stunned, but he quickly gathered himself and gave chase. A group of biker youths who were at a local tea shop also started to chase the car.
 
 “I was hanging onto the car when it started and tried to drive away with me. When the driver realized he was being chased, he stopped and pushed me off the vehicle,” said the woman, who suffered bruises and abrasions on her hands, elbows, knees and forehead.
 
 Bruised and bleeding, she and her husband went to the Jadavpur police station, from where they were directed to the Garfa PS. “Based on the woman’s complaint, we have started a case of  , wrongful restraint and assault against the car driver. The woman had provided us with the registration number, but it turned out to be wrong. We are scanning CCTV footage to track the vehicle,” said a senior officer.
 
 The woman, who works with a multinational computer hardware manufacturing company, was treated at a hospital. She has been advised a few days’ rest. 
 
 The woman’s husband owns an event management company, police said. They hail from Odisha but have been living in the city at a rented flat at   near Netajinagar for the last few years.
 
 The incident brought the focus back on drink-driving and subsequent instances of road rage in the city that are rampant during festive occasions, especially in and around the EM Bypass. 
 
 Between Sunday evening and early on Monday, Kolkata Police arrested 139 persons for disorderly conduct. 
 
 Most of them — 64 in total — were arrested from the south and southeast divisions which cover EM Bypass and areas in south Kolkata. Cops also booked 344 persons for riding bikes without helmets, 62 persons for rash driving and 93 for drunken driving in checks across the city.
 
