PUNE: The Mumbai bench of the   (NCLT), in its “ex-parte” order on Tuesday evening, directed the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE), the National Stock Exchange (NSE) and the Securities and Exchanges Board of India (SEBI), to stop the trading of Pune-based DSK Developers Ltd’s equity shares.

 On Wednesday, however, the company’s shares were traded and they closed at Rs 16 apiece. As many as 8,526 shares of the company exchanged hands. When the markets closed on Wednesday, the company’s market capitalisation stood at Rs 41.28 crore.
 
 The bench was hearing a petition filed by the Serious Fraud Investigation Office, on behalf of the  . The bench directed several agencies, including the tax department, the   and the central and national securities depository to disclose relevant details to the petitioner.
 
 The order quoted a Registrar of Companies’ Pune report, dated September 28, 2017, that observed several fraudulent activities benefiting the company’s top executives. Worryingly, the order quotes the inspection report as finding that though the company raised Rs 1,246 crore from the members of the public and financial institutions, it has land worth only Rs 27.25 crore and “not as portrayed by the company’s directors.” This brings into question the repeated claims of DS Kulkarni, who had said his properties could pay off all and sundry. The order also cited documents to show that it is “startling,” that a listed company could get so far in showing healthy balance sheets and that there has been manipulation to show that DS Kulkarni gave hundreds of crores to the company. The tribunal drew a comparison of the DSK case with that of   case. However, it said in DSK’s case, it is worse because the public, and not just banks, are targets of the fraud.
 
 The bench ordered that few directors — excluding independent directors — and key managerial persons of the company disclose details of their movable and immovable properties and bank accounts held in India and abroad.
 
 Meanwhile, sources said authorities have slapped a penalty on DSK Developers for not disclosing its third-quarter results.
 
 
