Noida: A week after a former national-level   was found dead at a highrise in Sector Zeta 1, Greater Noida, a 25-year-old woman was arrested for the  . 

 The accused, Shrishti Gupta, was nabbed along with her Bulandshahr-based boyfriend Imran Kuraishi (40) and an accomplice, Nafees (25), who were part of the conspiracy. 
 
 The former boxer, Jitender Mann’s (27), body was found with three bullet wounds at the sixth floor flat of AVJ Heights Society on January 12, two days after his death.
 
 According to police, the woman shot him dead as he was allegedly blackmailing her with an MMS clip.
 
 Mann, originally from Alipur in Delhi, had participated in some national-level boxing championship before shifting to Greater Noida three years ago. He was working as a trainer in a gym — Ultimate Fitness Academy — in Alfa 1, after he suffered an injury in boxing. The woman was undergoing fitness training at the gym.
 
 On January 10, Mann had gone to the gym, but his phone soon got switched off. On January 12, Mann’s cousin, Pritam Tokas, reached his rented accommodation in AVJ Heights and found him dead with bullet injuries. 
 
 Suniti, SP (rural) Gautam Budh Nagar, said police scanned footage of CCTV cameras installed at the lift and society gates. They found a woman’s movement inside the society suspicious. She entered the society at around 12.30 pm and exited at 4 pm. 
 
 Investigations revealed that Mann was in touch with the woman, Shrishti Gupta, who had joined the gym for fitness training.
 
 An original resident of Khurja in Bulandshahr, Shrishti lived in Unitech Horizon Society, Greater Noida. The woman claimed that she had ‘married’ Imran two years ago. Imran, already married, owns a slaughter house in Bulandshahr. He used to transfer Rs 60,000 to her account every month. The woman had joined the gym for fitness training in March 2017 where she befriended Mann. Police traced Shrishti’s call records and found her talking to Imran and his driver Nafees – about executing the murder.
 
 The woman had done a BBA programme from CCS University Meerut and later shifted to Greater Noida to pursue a course in photography. Imran was financially helping her during her stay.
 
 Shrishti said that she had met Mann at the gym. “Mann befriended me and came to my room. One day, he mixed sedatives in my coffee and made physical relations with me. He also secretly made an MMS and started blackmailing me,” she told TOI. 
 
 Akhilesh Pradhan, SHO, Surajpur police station, said the woman requested Mann to delete the MMS but he refused. She then shared the issue with Imran. “Imran hatched a plan with his driver Nafees to kill the boxer. Imran arranged a country-made revolver and trained Shrishti for a few days to fire shots,” he said.
 
 On January 10, the woman, armed herself with the gun, reached Mann’s house in an autorickshaw. She had lunch with him and had a friendly talk for a few hours. In the evening, she demanded Mann to delete the MMS, but he refused. “I got angry. Mann was lying on the bed. He turned his face away when I asked him to delete the MMS. I then took out the country-made gun and opened fire,” Shrishti said.
 
 Police said one bullet hit Mann’s head and two his back. She then took Mann’s purse and mobile phone and exited the society after locking the door from outside. She then hired an auto and fled to Noida and then Delhi.
 
 On Wednesday night, the police arrested the three from outside Unitech Horizon Society when they were planning to flee in a Toyota Innova. 
 
 The police have booked them under Section 302 (murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (criminal act done by several persons with common intention) of IPC against the accused. 
 
 
