KOLKATA : After remaining in denial mode for five days following an enteric outbreak along the city’s south-eastern belt, Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Wednesday confirmed that   had been found in at least three water samples collected from Bagha Jatin near Jadavpur. Coliform bacteria is usually found in feces. The contamination happens when sewage seeps into drinking water pipes.

 “The KMC laboratory has detected coliform bacteria in three samples collected from piped water supplied to two localities — Chittaranjan Colony and Bagha Jatin D Block. Besides, the water supply department had collected 147 more samples from affected areas like Patuli, Santoshpur, Kasba, Haltu, Madurdaha and Mukundapur. But coliform bacteria has not been detected in them,” a civic official said.
 
 
 TOI on Wednesday visited the address in Bagha Jatin D Block where coliform bacteria had been found and found that the building at D/153, Bagha Jatin Pally had turned into a sanitorium with 12 of the 20 residents down with diarrhoea. Two of them had to be hospitalised.
 
 “The water has been turbid for about aweek with small particles floating in it. We started feeling ill since Friday. Everyone had stomach upset. My wife Dipti Ganguly and neighbour Sapna Pal were hospitalised,” said Arun Ganguly.
 
 Though KMC made the report on coliform bacteria public only on Wednesday, it had sent a team to check the pipeline in front of the house on Tuesday evening and again on Wednesday. “We disconnected the pipeline leading from the main supply point to the house and washed it,” said a plumber.
  
  
 
 Water department officials though are not exactly elated that only one in 50 samples were found to be contaminated. For, they are aware that given the geographic spread from where complaints have been pouring in, there are probably multiple breaches in underground water pipelines in the region.
 
 “We need to conduct several more tests to identify the areas where the breaches could have occured. This is like looking for a needle in a haystack. But this has to be done,” a KMC water supply department official said.
 
 A section of doctors also believe too few samples have been collected for tests to detect the   At least 30-40 water samples should have been collected from each of the 7-8 affected wards. “Diarrhoea is almost always triggered by coliform bacteria. In this case, it is likely to be Enterotoxigenic E.coli or ETEC, which belongs to the Coliform group. It releases toxins in the body and could even infiltrate food, causing food poisoning. I feel more samples should have been tested by now to gauge the extent of the spread,” said  , consultant, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS).
 
 Doctors at Bagha Jatin State General Hospital (BSGH), which has been   suffering from diarrhoea since Friday, confirmed that diagnostic reports of some had confirmed E.coli infection.
 
 However, all 10 stool samples that it had sent from patients to the   and Enteric Diseases (NICED) tested negative to any known pathogen. Doctors though pointed out that these samples had been collected from patients admitted at the hospital and already on antibiotic medication for two-three days. “Also, the manner in which the samples were handled and sent did not confirm to protocol,” said a NICED official.
 
 Civic officials are now working on a strategy to cleanse the area by urging households to empty their underground and overhead storage tanks so that they can be cleaned for reuse.
 
