HYDERABAD: Two persons of a five-member gang of car thieves were arrested by Cyberabad police on Thursday night. The accused used to sell a second-hand car to a gullible customer and later steal the same car by tracking the vehicle through   (GPS) tracker. The cops seized 10 cars and two GPS gadgets from the possession of the accused.

 In a press note, Cyberabad police said the accused were identified as Mohammed Azam, owner of Atheef Tours & Travels business from Golconda, and Mohammed Ibrahim Khan, running car sales and purchase business in Mallepally. The duo was arrested based on a complaint filed by   from Nava Bharath Nagar.
 
 According to Mahendar Singh, Ibrahim Khan sold him two cars in February and collected Rs 2 lakh for each car. Ibrahim Khan promised to deliver the documents of the two cars after collection of pending payment. “But surprisingly both the cars went missing after few days. On inquiry, it was found that Ibrahim Khan had fixed GPS tracker in the two cars and had them stolen,” deputy commissioner of police ( ),  , said.
 
 Officials said Azam was tracked based on his mobile phone location and 10 cars along with GPS gadgets were seized from his possession. Azam was also working as a recovery agent for few private automobile finance companies in Hyderabad on commission basis. He had a team to seize the vehicles for finance companies.
 
 Azam was associated with   and Maina Finance and used to collect the list of defaulters who failed to pay the EMI. He used to approach the car owners with an offer to buy their vehicles and pay the pending EMIs to the finance company.
 
 After purchasing the car, Azam used to look for prospective buyers to sell the vehicle. While handing over the car to the buyer, Azam would take 75% of the agreed amount and promise to give the documents of the vehicle after collecting the remaining amount.
 
 “While handing over the car to the buyer, Azam would fix a GPS tracker without the knowledge of the buyer. After a few days of selling the car, Azam would track the location of the car and steal it with the help of a duplicate key. He would then take the stolen car to distant places, even to neighbouring states or mortgage the car,” police said.
 
 Their accomplices — Rehan, Hameed and Chinnappa Reddy — are on the run.
 
