KOLKATA: Bengal BJP will showcase   Jahan, one of the five Muslim women who moved Supreme Court against instant triple talaq, in its first meeting of minorities at Esplanade here on January 11. “I have got an invite from BJP Mahila Morcha state president Locket Chatterjee to join the rally,” Jahan said from her Pilkhana home in Howrah, two days after joining BJP’s Mahila Morcha on Saturday. 

 Jahan, who has welcomed the   government’s passing the bill banning triple talaq in the  , is BJP’s trump card in   to campaign for the Centre’s welfare programmes for minorities.
 
 The BJP Minority Morcha has given a call to organise “nationalist minorities” in Bengal with an eye on the 27% Muslim population it can hardly ignore in the electoral game ahead of rural polls in the state. Bengal’s Muslim population is 8% more than that in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 “We are not against the minorities who have been living in India before Independence. We consider them as worthy citizens of India. The Modi government has undertaken a lot of schemes for their welfare. We will talk about these schemes and also expose the   government’s shedding crocodile tears for minorities. The ruling Trinamool is trying to mislead minorities,” said minority morcha state president Ali Hossain.
 
 Hossain, however, drew a distinction between “nationalist minorities” and infiltrators from neighbouring Bangladesh. “They are posing a threat to our country. The arrest of two Bangladeshis involved in subversive activities is a case in point. We have to keep a watch on them,” he said.
 
 For full report, log on to www.timesofindia.com
 
 BJP in Bengal is taking a nuanced approach while addressing “minority appeasement” by the Trinamool government. The party has engaged Trinamool-turned-BJP leader Mukul Roy to use his minority connections — Furfura Sharif and other places — to earn the confidence of a section of Muslims, particularly women. 
 
 According to BJP leaders, the bill banning instant triple talaq may come handy if women led by Ishrat Jahan reach out to others in Muslim-dominated areas of the state.
 
 But Jahan’s task is less easy than said. The woman, who has been fending for her family since her husband gave her triple talaq over phone from Dubai and is awaiting maintenance, has also run into opposition from patriarchal mindsets and community leaders in Pilkhana. 
 
 As for Trinamool, party councillor of Howrah Municipal Corporation’s ward 16 Mohammad Rustam said: “We can’t take her responsibility if she faces a social boycott from community members in the locality.”
 
 
