CHENNAI: Amidst talk of flight of industrial investments from Tamil Nadu to other states, and lack of interaction between the state government and the industry, a delegation of leading industry representatives met CM   at the secretariat on Monday.

 The meeting, which lasted about two hours, not only helped break the ice, but also paved way for better understanding on both sides. Expressing his intent to remain accessible and solve issues faced by the industry to put the state on the path of development and generate large-scale employment, the chief minister expressed his intent to meet the industry group on a regular basis to sustain interest. The delegation included TVS Motor chairman and former president of   Venu Srinivasan,   managing director  , CII southern region deputy chairman and TVS & Sons JMD R Dinesh, CII Tamil Nadu president P Ravichandran, MRF chairman  , and CavinKare CMD C K Ranganathan.
 
 
 
 
 A continuous and comprehensive evaluation (CCE) methodology is used to evaluate students’ performance. In 2012, the Union human resource development ministry constituted a subcommittee under the Central Advisory Board for Education (CABE) to look into the issue which in its report suggested doing away with the policy and introduction of annual exams for Class V and Class VIII students.
 
 Based on this, the RTE Act was amended. However, states were allowed to take the final call with theCentre seeeking comments from all the states and Union territories in this regard. Of the 28 who shared their views, only five opposed the proposal. Tamil Nadu maintained a status quo. Against this backdrop, an official said that discussions were held over conducting an annual exam for Class VIII students from the next academic year. “The final call is yet to be made,” he added.
 
 The state school education minister K Sengottaiyan was unavailable for comment. If the state decides to reverse its stance, it might have an adverse impact on the dropout rate at elementary level, which is on the decline since 2012, say experts.
 
