It was an evening full of laughter and loud cheering for South Campus' fuchchas when   singer   recently performed at  ,  's annual fest. From  's songs to  's compositions, the singer made the audience groove to songs like Nadaan Parinde, Dil Se, Humma Humma,  , and more. 

  
  PUT YOUR HANDS UP! Singer   also joined Nakash
 
  Responding to the applauses, Nakash said, "It's so good to see you all here," continuing to sing for the crowd. The singer took his jacket off in between the performance and said, "Maine aaj jacket wagerah pehna hai but I'm more of a shirt and jeans guy. So I'll just get comfortable. And that's how I like to be." He also joked about people's reaction to  's performance in Mumbai last year. "Abhi Justin aaya tha Mumbai toh log bahut bhadak gaye yeh kehkar ki usne T-shirt aur shorts mein show kiya. Maine bola, at least comfortable toh tha banda," he added. 
 
  
  The students grooved to a number of Bollywood hits Nakash sang for them
 
  Nakash was later joined by Richa Narayan, who accompanied him in various songs. He also called a few students on the stage and presented them with gifts. "It was our privilege that Nakash picked us from the audience. Since it’s our last year of college, this will always stay close to our heart. It was really sweet of him to call us on stage," said third-year student Shalini, who was called on the stage along with her friends Apurva, Vidushi, Cristie and Diksha. Thanking the cultural committee of the college, Nakash said, "I was also the head of organizing committee in my college and I know how difficult this job is. It used to get very hectic. So I had my president do all the work!" 
 
  
  The musicians helped the singer on the stage 
 
 Rajat, a student who was also present at the event, said, "Though I joined this event a little late, I enjoyed the rest of the songs." Another student, Sohil added, "I have attended many cultural fests, and this was the most entertaining one. We are expecting more fun in the coming fests."
 
  
  
 
 -- Richa.Sharma1@timesgroup.com
 
