HYDERABAD: A new bird flu virus has been brought to the country by migratory birds causing concern among researchers and health experts.

 The novel avian influenza virus(AIV) is a reassorted variety of H6N2, which iscapable of infecting human beings too. The good news, however, is the new strains of bird flu virus H6N2 are susceptible to the anti-flu drug  . But it could emerge as a “possible pandemic strain”.
 
 Though thetwo newstrains were discovered in   and Kerala, experts fear that they can spread to newstates as they were introduced by migratory birds. Telangana and   get migratory birds in large numbers every year. The birds stay for periods ranging from three months to five months, lay eggs and take the young hatchlings back with them. The researchers have called for continued surveillance of the avian flu virus, not only in poultry, but also in wild birds to prevent further spread of the new strains.
 
 The antigenic and genetic characterization of the new strains of H6N2 bird flu virus isolated in India was described in thelatestissueof thescience journal, Infection, Genetics and Evolution. The two reassortant strains showed different gene constellations. It is believed that the strains were introduced by migratory birds from Central Asia.
 
 The research was carried out by teams from the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, and the Northeastern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Guwahati. “The recent reports of human infection due to H6 subtype avian influenza viruses, which are prevalent in terrestrial poultry, indicate evolution of the virusto a possible pandemicstrain. We report antigenic and geneticcharacterization of two H6N2 virusesisolatedfrom apparently healthy domestic ducks in Kerala and Assam,” researchers said in the study.
 
 The study revealed that hemagglutination inhibition assay revealed antigenic divergence between the two virus strains. “The sequence analysesindicatedthat boththe viruses are avian origin,” the researchers said, adding it has a low pathogenicity to poultry birds. It is however sensitive to Oseltamivir drug.
 
 The strains had genes drawn from Eurasian and Asia II lineages. The strains were an independent introduction into India by migratory wild birds in the “Central Asian flyway”, the study said. “Continued avian influenza virus surveillance in poultry and wild birds is essential for early detection of emergence of novel strains with pandemic potential and control of their spread,” the research team suggested.
 
