GUWAHATI: A section of aggrieved students of the  's ( )   campus have approached the   ( ), expressing their grievances on the lack of basic amenities and infrastructure. Students have alleged that the campus lacks amenities required for the functioning of any university, such as proper mobile and internet coverage, a sexual harassment complaints' cell, a placement officer, besides lacking basic equipments and the hostel toilets being unclean. 

 A student pursuing Bachelor's degree said the hostel toilets are not properly maintained and the students themselves are forced to clean them. Another postgraduate student complained of poor network coverage in the area, saying, "Many areas on the campus are out of network coverage and the internet facilities are almost non-existent. This makes it very difficult for us to study. The students are living a life of isolation even when our courses demand that the students remain updated with the latest developments in their areas."
 
 The director of the school of humanities and social sciences Riju Sharma, however, refuted these claims, dismissing the allegations as baseless. "We have our own workforce for maintaining cleanliness on campus. The question of engaging the students for cleaning toilets doesn't arise," she said. She also claimed that there is a high-speed internet facility on the campus.
 
 Students, however, are unanimous in their complaints, with a few of them also expressing their annoyance with the problems faced by them during the admission process. "We are unable to pay our dues online through netbanking or debit and credit cards. Moreover, payments by demand draft or cheque is also not accepted," another student claimed, adding that prospective students are being misled as the   website lists faculty members, who have either long resigned or never visited the departments to which they reportedly belong. "Also, only 5% of the courses mentioned on the university website is actually offered," the student said. University authorities, however, claimed that the ADBU website is constantly updated for the convenience of students and visitors. 
 
 Pointing out the lack of infrastructure, another student said, "The mass communication department lacks required equipments like professional cameras, recording suites and editing softwares. However, we pay exorbitant fees for the infrastructure that we are supposed to have here."
 
 Students also alleged that the campus lacks basic amenities required for functioning such as an RTI cell, a sexual harassment complaint cell and a campus placement officer. Responding to these complaints, the director Riju Sharma once again dismissed these as baseless allegations and said the university has active cells for grievance redressal.
 
 However, students were not alone in these complaints against the severe mismanagement on campus as an ABDU faculty member, on condition of anonymity, alleged that a considerable portion of teachers' salaries are deducted every month to prevent them from seeking employment elsewhere. "The deducted amount is supposed to be reimbursed to the teacher on completion of a specific duration in the university. But this is simply illogical," the teacher said. 
 
 
