Kolkata: The Calcutta High Court on Wednesday set aside a June 18 order issued by the chief metropolitan magistrate, Kolkata, blocking the Facebook pages of an online media company on the grounds of inciting violence and hatred after the Darjeeling agitation broke out.  The HC, however, left it to the state whether it will take its plea to the designated authorities afresh. Facebook Inc. had moved the HC against the June 18 order, and another order issued on June 19, to block and remove the pages (including the links and sites). Facebook also argued that the Information Technology Rules, 2009, which had laid down the procedures to block or remove websites were violated. The lower court, it argued in the HC, had overstepped its brief and issued orders even without an FIR. The state argued that an exigency prompted cops to move a competent court on the issue.  The HC observed that the rules were very specific on this count. It says every agency needs to have a designated nodal officer, who will refer such requests to the Centre. The requests have to be endorsed by the state chief secretary. It can also be done by a competent court. The requests had to be routed formally to the designated representative of the Centre — a joint-secretary-rank officer — to take appropriate actions. The HC said a court cannot assume these responsibilities since the IT Act 2000 is a complete code in itself.  It also said the section 69A of the IT Act, 2000, which deals with these provisions says such actions (blocking or removing websites) can only be done if there is an apprehension that such posts could incite any cognizable offence. This mandated an FIR to be registered, which wasn’t done in this case. “In a non-cognizable case, the police cannot investigate without the order of a magistrate. The learned CMM while passing the impugned order did not consider all these aspects in its proper perspectives,” the HC held. The HC, however, made it clear that by setting aside the court order it is not closing all doors on the state to seek legal recourse on the issue. “But at the same time it cannot be said that the road is closed forever. The state government, after observing the legal formalities as mentioned in the special statute, may invoke the same, if the situation so warrants and still prevails. After all ‘law and order’ is the urgent desideratum of the state,” the HC order read.