Rasika never took her obesity seriously but the day she shed a few kilos, she realized that it was the best thing she could do to her body. With all her dedication, she followed a strict diet and workout regime and became an inspiration for many. Here's what she told us about her   journey…

 
  Rasika G Dhamanekar 
 
 
  Student
 
 
  24
 
 
  90 kgs
 
 
  35 kgs
 
 
  One and a half years 
 
 
  I was never serious about my excess weight. Just to kill time, I started to accompany my friend to the gym. But the moment I realized that I was losing weight and started looking good and fitter, I started to take my   seriously. With all the dedication that I had, I began my weight loss journey and soon staying fit and healthy turned out to be my passion.
 
 
 
 
 
 I would say being fit is not just a hobby but it’s a way of life. And trust me once you lose weight, your outlook towards life also changes. 
 
 
  At the initial stage, I use to eat oatmeal. Now, I just prefer homemade food.
 
 
 For lunch, I eat brown rice, chicken and sometimes, paneer and buttermilk. Also, I eat sprouts for salad. 
 
 
  I eat dinner three hours before I go off to sleep. I eat boiled eggs, moong dal curry, and fruits. 
 
 
  Pizza, chocolate truffle pastry, and sometimes, Maggi.
 
 
  I indulge in both, weight training and cardio. I also go for running. Initially, I used to lift light weights but now I can even lift heavy weights. I would suggest morning time is the best time for workout. Even if you work out for one hour, it’s fine but do it with dedication.
 
 
  Mixed vegetable soup. Add broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, sprouts, bell pepper and corn. If you want, you could also add boiled chicken.
 
 
  Eat, drink and workout. Enjoy your life and lead a healthy life. Another secret drink is luke-warm water before you go off to bed and also, first thing in the morning.
 
 
  Surround yourself with people who support you. I get motivated by looking at myself in the mirror. I say it every day, I did it and I will do it. And yes, of course, I follow all those people who are fit and healthy.
 
  
  
  Now my target is to sculpt abs. My friends are supportive. Whenever I lose focus, they again inspire me and make sure that I don’t lose my target.
 
 
  I couldn’t wear my favourite outfits and lacked confidence while talking, sitting or walking because I used to be extremely conscious. 
 
 
  I want a fit and beautiful body just like Shilpa Shetty.
 
 
  Firstly, my eating habits. I will never touch or even sniff any junk food, no matter how tempting it is. I believe that if you want to achieve something, make all possible compromises and sacrifices. All you need is the mindset, self-motivation and confidence in yourself. Just say, “I can and I will”.
 
 
  It took me 5 to 6 months just to lose 1 to 2 kilos. If I would have lost patience, I wouldn’t be here ever in my life. Don’t ever give up, as great things take time.
 
  
  There is no word called ‘impossible’. If you are fit, you can do anything. It’s not always easy but it’s worth it. There were people in my life who used to say that I couldn’t do anything. But I decided to become the best version of myself. Don’t do what others are doing, do what suits your body, because you are the limit.
 
 
 
 
