AMARAVATI: In yet another farmer-friendly initiative, the state government has decided to replace 15 lakh obsolete and low-quality agriculture pumpsets with energy-efficient ones spending a whopping Rs 6,000 crore in a phased manner.

 Describing the decision as a Sankranti gift to the farming community, chief minister   said his government would provide energy-efficient agricultural pump set worth Rs 40,000 each to the farmers free of cost. “This is yet another major boon to lakhs of farmers, after the crop loan waiver scheme aimed at reviving the agriculture sector. It will herald a new revolution in the agriculture sector,” chief minister said.
 
 Interacting with power minister   and senior officials Satish Chandra, Sai Prasad, Ajay Jain, Vijayanand and chiefs of   via teleconference on Sunday, the CM asked the discoms to complete the entire programme of pump sets replacement by 2019.
 
 The farmers would be supplied with BEE five-star-rated energy-efficient pump sets with mobile-operated smart control panel with SIM card. It can run without any repair and maintenance cost for five years. If there is any problem with a pumpset, it would send an automatic SMS. This will ensure safety of farmers in the night time to avoid snake-bite incidents. “The farmer can switch the pumpset on and off even from his residence while watching television,” the CM said.
 
 The chief minister said that he is happy to say that AP is the only state in the country which is launching the free pump sets scheme. He said the farmers would be given pumpset worth Rs 40,000 without having to spend a single rupee from their pockets. “Nothing is more important for me than the welfare of farmers. Being the son of a farmer, I have been marching ahead with the sole objective of providing drinking water to every home and irrigation facility to every field. AP will undergo a remarkable change once the prestigious Polavaram project is completed. Similarly, we are contemplating linking of Godavari and the Penna rivers on the lines of   linkage through   lift irrigation project. I am confident that water will flow into every acre of tail-end lands,” the CM said.
 
 In addition to energy-efficient pumpsets, the government is also contemplating providing new solar pump set connections to farmers wherever groundwater table is within a depth of 75 metres. Out of the total cost of Rs 3.12 lakh for each solar pumpset, the state government will bear about Rs 2.57 lakh, leaving just Rs 55,000 for the farmer to contribute.
 
 He said the government is also spending about Rs 25,000 per annum on each pump set as subsidy for free electricity consumption. The investment would reach around Rs 1 lakh towards infrastructural facilities for new agriculture services being released. Keeping in view the good rainfall this year and a substantial increase in ground water levels, the CM has directed the power utilities to continue the same tempo in maintaining highly qualitative power to agriculture sector to the utmost satisfaction of the farmer.
 
 
