NOIDA: Around 30 students of the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) have moved the   against the Medical Council of India’s (MCI) decision to debar those who have completed Class XII examination through open and distance mode from taking the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test ( ) this year.

 TOI had reported on February 14 that the “sudden decision” of MCI has affected some 30,000 students from across 25 regional centres of NIOS, who have been preparing for NEET for over two years for admission to MBBS/BDS courses.
 
 In their petition, the students have urged the Delhi high court to set aside the MCI’s decision at the earliest to enable them to take this year’s NEET slated for April. The last date for filling of the forms for NEET 2018 is March 9. The court has listed the matter for hearing on Wednesday.
 
 “The exclusion of students who have passed 10+2 from  , private candidates and students who have not undertaken two years of regular and continuous study of physics, chemistry, biology/bio-technology at 10+2 level, from admission to medical colleges is arbitrary, illegal and violative of Article 14,16 and 21 of the Constitution of India,” reads the petition.
 
 The main petitioner in the case is Rakshanda Surana, a Gurgaon-based NIOS student who works at an eating joint in Cyber Hub to fund her education.
 
 “I want to become a doctor and so started preparing for NEET in 2014. It was not very easy as I do not have monetary help from anyone. However, just 60 days before the exam, I got to know that NIOS students have been debarred by MCI from appearing in NEET this year. All of us are really distracted and are not able to focus on our preparation,” said Rakshanda.
 
 The petition also alleges that the MCI has chosen to accept the degrees from one board established by the Union human resource development ministry, i.e. Central Board of Secondary Education, but has arbitrarily chosen to reject the degrees of another, i.e. NIOS and open schools established by state governments.
 
 “Moreover, the MCI has chosen to accept the degree conferred by an independent board, i.e., the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), which is not recognised by any state or statutory authority but left out the candidates of recognised open school boards,” says the petition.
 
 Amit Kumar, the advocate representing the students, told TOI the matter had been listed for hearing in the court of Justices Sanjiv Khanna and Chander Shekhar for Wednesday.
 
 Through the plea, the students have also expressed concern that the Pharmacy Council of India, Nursing Council of India and the  , which accept open school certificates for pursuing higher studies, may start disallowing open school students to compete with regular ones following the exclusion by the MCI.
 
 
