GREATER NOIDA: Two persons were booked for illegal   in their home in Sector Gamma II in   on Friday. The accused have been identified as   and his friend Shivi Shukla.

 According to Kaveri Rana Bharadwaj, a volunteer for People For Animals, who runs SMART Sanctuary, a private trust for injured street dogs in Omicron II in Greater Noida, an injured puppy was found abandoned outside her sanctuary at night during rain a few days ago. Preliminary investigations revealed that a breeder, Nazim Ali, and his friends had brought the puppy from Sector Gamma II and abandoned it outside her sanctuary. She informed Maneka Gandhi’s PFA office in Delhi about the same via email on May 8. Bharadwaj, meanwhile, informed Nazim that an FIR will be filed as abandoning an animal is punishable. “Nazim came with around 20 people to my sanctuary and threatened my caretakers of dire consequences,” she said.
 
 The complainant said she found that Nazim was involved in illegal dog breeding and selling. “We found his YouTube channel where he is offering to sell puppies,” she said. She enquired about the matter and found that Nazim had not got any licence for dog breeding. “We found several foreign breed dogs and pups on his premises. However, he has no licence for breeding. This is against Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (dog breeding and marketing rules) 2007,” she said.
 
 According to rules, each dog breeder must get registered under the   and registration certificate must be displayed at the Centre. Only animals declared healthy by registered vets can be used for breeding. Female dogs can be bred only once in a year and for a maximum of five times. “It is also illegal to sell pups below eight weeks,” Bharadwaj said. The complainant said the accused, his friend Shivi Shukla and a few others made threatening phone calls to her, after which she filed a police complaint on Thursday.
 
 Shukla, however, denied the allegations and said that the premise was a boarding centre for dogs. “They have levelled false allegations against us. I have informed the police about the same,” Shukla said.
 
 The police have registered a case under Section 428, 429 (mischief by killing or maiming animal) Section 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace), Section 506 (criminal intimidation), Section 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult modesty of a woman) and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 against Nazim and Shivi.
 
 Amit Kishore Shrivastava, circle officer, Greater Noida I, said police are investigating the matter.
 
 
