MUMBAI: A   and his accomplice, who worked in a garage in  , were arrested for allegedly duping several people of lakhs of rupees by advertising to sell or buy cars on e-portals. 

 The Bandra-Kurla Complex police said the mastermind,   resident Mohammed Ayaz (28), used two modus operandi: He would borrow a car from Arif Sayyed’s garage and place an advertisement to sell it online or pose as a customer interested in buying a car put up for sale on an e-portal and drive away with the vehicle. 
 
 The police said Ayaz was wanted in at least eight such cases registered at Trombay, Kalamboli, Vikhroli, Bandra, Sanpada, RAK Marg, Navghar, Mulund, Jui Nagar and Deonar police stations. 
 
 The police have recovered eight cars from Ayaz and Sayyed (30), including a BMW owned by Pune resident Khalil Shaikh. Shaikh’s friend Asif Qureshi, who is a member of the ministry of home affairs, was using the car. Qureshi was shocked when last week, the police reached his Vikhroli home and seized the BMW, which was ‘sold’ by Ayaz. Qureshi told TOI: “In September 2017, I sent the car to the garage for some work. The police said the accused might have clicked a picture of the car there and posted it online.” Ayaz took Rs 2.4 lakh as advance payment for the BMW from a Vikhroli resident.
 
 Ayaz ran out of luck when he got in touch with a Mumbra-based garment businessman, Khalid Shaikh, who posted his sedan for sale on an e-portal in April. “Ayaz fixed meeting with Shaikh at a restaurant in BKC on April 14,” said zonal DCP Anil Kumbhare. “Ayaz offered Shaikh tea and went to the washroom. Minutes later, he returned and showed Shaikh a fake text message that he had transferred Rs 1.4 lakh to Shaikh’s account. Shaikh handed over the car keys and documents as Ayaz left for a test drive. When Ayaz didn’t return, Shaikh called him, but his phone was switched off. It was then that Shaikh realized that he had been duped.” 
 
 Based on Shaikh’s complaint, Kumbhare supervised a team—senior inspector Kalpana Gadekar, inspector Pradip Khanvilkar, and sub-inspectors Amit Utekar, Navnath Kale and Ganesh Thodkar—and arrested Ayaz from Kharghar on May 18. He spilled the beans on Sayyed (30), who was arrested on Sunday. The police were initally unable to trace Ayaz as he had switched off his phone. But after going through his call data records, they found that he used another number to call his milkman. They tracked him to Kharghar using the location of the second phone number.
 
 
