GURUGRAM: The district administration is giving owners of cars and bikes, plying without high security  , one last chance to fall in line, failing in which they may face action.

 The authorities will organise a two-day camp at Beriwala Bagh, where the lone government-authorised   will fit standard registration plates on vehicles flaunting fancy numbers. Heading a road safety meeting on Monday, deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh observed that a large number of vehicles in the city still didn’t have high security registration plates — a uniform pattern of displaying vehicle’s registration number throughout the country. 
 
 “Before   are issued, vehicle owners should be given one last chance to get these plates installed,” he added.
 
 Officials said both the vendor as well as vehicle owners were to be blamed for delay in getting the standard number plates installed. According to them, a vehicle buyer is asked to pay a fee (Rs 300) for the number plate at the time of registration of the vehicle. Later, the owner is supposed to get the number installed from a vendor in Beriwala Bagh located near the Civil Lines.
 
 “Several receipts (of Rs 300) have been issued by the RTA, but vehicle owners either did not visit the vendor to get the plates installed or the vendor delayed the installation,” said an official.
 
 Sources said nearly 15,000 number plates, which were made but not installed, were lying with the vendor. The number of vehicles plying with fancy number plates would be more than this, they claimed.
 
 Now, the administration has decided to end this practice. Considering the high volume of vehicles with improper number plates, the agency has been asked to set up 10-15 counters for the proposed camp and arrange for enough manpower to install plates without any glitch over the weekend. 
 
 Further, according to sources, the government has already instructed dealers and workshops of various automobile manufacturers to make arrangements to give high security number plates along with the vehicles sold.
 
 
