NEW DELHI: If the first three months of the year indicate anything it is that summer could herald a   supply crisis. The water   in the  , which receives raw water from the Yamuna, is below  . 

 The canals that carry water to the capital from Haryana too have a reduced flow. The situation is so alarming that   had to approach the Supreme Court on Saturday, having earlier gone to the National Green Tribunal and the Delhi high court to get its mandated share of water from the neighbouring state.
 
 
  
 
 “The level at   is currently 669ft against the normal of 674.5ft, and Haryana has reduced the release of raw water in the Delhi Sub-Branch and Munak canals,” said Dinesh Mohaniya,   vice-chairman and AAP MLA from Sangam Vihar. DJB officials disclosed that the city is grappling with a shortfall of 70MGD (million gallons per day) in water supply and rationing is being resorted to so as to minimise the impact in vulnerable areas. Delhi’s 11 water treatment plants have a total capacity of 906MGD.
 
 Although the Wazirabad and Chandrawal plants have been primarily affected, the others at Haiderpur, Bhagirathi, Bawana, Nangloi, Sonia Vihar, Okhla and Dwarka too have seen a marginal fall in supply. Explaining this, Mohaniya said, “If the entire treatment work at Chandrawal is stopped, water supply would be reduced by 125MGD. To prevent an emergency of this sort, we are diverting water from the plants at Haiderpur and Dwarka to ensure acceptable level of water at Chandrawal and Wazirabad.” 
 
 North and south Delhi, and a few central areas, are facing the brunt of water supplied at low pressure. Last week, a 60-year old man died in a brawl over a water tanker in Wazirpur. No wonder Mukesh Agarwal, member of the Lake Area Resident’s Association in Model Town, is so hassled. “Water tanks do bring water, but people often end up quarrelling. In any case, for how long can you sustain life on buckets of water?” he said. “Tankers cannot be a long-term alternative to piped supply.”
 
 Ritesh Dewan, member of the Shalimar Bagh RWA, is luckier than Agarwal not to receive yellow, brackish water, but the fluctuation in water supply remains a big concern. “The colonies at the tail end of Shalimar Bagh receive very little water and supply is not reliable,” he said.
 
 In south Delhi, Chetan Sharma of Greater Kailash II, grumbled that people were being forced to buy water. “It isn’t easy for people living in higher floors to ferry water from the tankers,” he said. “Residents used to buy water earlier too, but this has increased now.” With the days getting hotter, Delhiites’ hopes now lie in the Supreme Court’s intervention.
 
 
