NEW DELHI: “The   and   which the   must have felt upon being   and   by the accused is not incomprehensible...,” a Delhi   and awarded   to the   for sexually assaulting the minor and intimidating him with dire consequences.

 Additional sessions judge Kaveri Baweja said there was no reason to disbelieve the survivor for not informing his parents. “A child cannot be expected to behave like an adult and instantly inform the police or confide in his parents,” noted the court.
 
 Old Delhi resident Mohd Rashid lived in the neighbourhood as the minor, a student of Class X in 2013, when the incident took place. Rashid ran a general store in the locality and knew the boy well. He would often ask him to come to his shop at night. There the boy was greeted with obscenity — both verbal and physical. As a result, the minor fared poorly in his Class X board examination, but still chose to remain mum.
 
 The offender tried to build trust by telling the survivor that he was like an elder brother to him, and would take care of his pocket money. On one occasion, he flashed the minor and molested him. The survivor, however, escaped from the accused’s grip and ran to his house. It was only then that the survivor narrated his ordeal to his parents.
 
 Rashid was arrested on June 6, 2013. He, however, claimed that his indictment was based on a concocted story cooked up by the minor since his father had failed to clear the dues of his shop. 
 
 He also alleged that local policemen tortured him and took his signature on a blank paper as part of the conspiracy.
 
 The defence counsel also contested the survivor’s age saying he was not a minor and, therefore, Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) law was not attracted. The court, however, found the survivor was a minor when the incident took place.
 
 The court also observed that at the very outset, on being questioned why he did not complain to his parents, the minor said it was “due to shame”.
 
 “I am thus of the opinion that the accused had committed aggravated sexual assault on the victim more than once and is thus liable to be convicted for offence punishable under Section 10 of POCSO Act,” the court held.
 
 Rashid was sentenced under Sections 10 of POCSO Act, 363 (kidnap) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and awarded five, three and two years jail term, respectively. All terms are to run concurrently. Adequate compensation is to be granted by the legal services authority, the court directed.
 
 
