AHMEDABAD: Sixteen   in the heinous Naroda Patia massacre case where 97 were killed have been asked to pay a fine ranging from Rs 500 (for unlawful assembly), Rs 3,000 (murder) to Rs 5,000 (criminal conspiracy) totalling to not more than Rs 8,500 each under different sections of Indian Penal Code penned way back in 1860.

 Ironically, if a person is caught buying, selling and transporting liquor in Gujarat, he invites a hefty penalty of Rs 5 lakh under the newly tightened liquor law-- The   Prohibition (Amendement) Act, 2017 passed in the state last year.
 
  
 It is no wonder then that the Gujarat HC has regretted the paltry amount of fine under the   and called for a hike in fine imposed under the archaic laws which were written a good one and half century ago!
 
 The HC has observed that the fine should be steep enough to really act as a deterrent to prevent a person from committing the offence. It felt that the amount of fine prescribed in the IPC is too less to work as a deterrent. In a recent judgement in a cheating case, Justice J B Pardiwala said: "There is a sea charge in the human values and the value of money since Lord Macaulay drafted the IPC."
 
 The HC cited examples of NDPS Act of 1985 and Information Technology Act of 2000, which prescribe fine in lakhs. “But, the fine prescribed in the IPC, way back in 1860, which at that time could be a deterrent, has remained unchanged till this date, i.e. more than 140 years after the IPC was enacted.
 
 
 
 
 In the present-day situation, the meagre fine prescribed in several sections of the IPC, can by no stretch of imagination, be said to be deterrent to prevent such offences,” the court order reads.
 
 If a person is guilty of rash and negligent driving, he can get away by paying fine up to Rs 1,000 under Section 279 of the IPC. Similarly, fine for causing grievous hurt to a person is up to Rs 500 under section 338 of IPC.
 
 What’s more, Section 63 of the IPC also puts a bar on excessive fine. It says, "Where no sum is expressed to which a fine may extend, the amount of fine to which the offender is liable is unlimited, but shall not be excessive.”
 
 
