BENGALURU: Albert Roca's boys overcame a spirited challenge from NorthEast United, especially in the second session, as they took back pole position with a 2-1 win with goals from skipper   and  .

 
 The 15,000-plus spectators got their money worth as Blues edged the Highlanders at the Fortress with some quality football in both offence and defence. If the first 45 minutes saw them dictate terms, the second half was mostly about smothering the rival attacks led by ex-Blue Seiminlen Doungel.
 
 BFC's eighth win in 12 matches put them back on top of the standings with 24 points ahead of Chennaiyin FC and FC Pune City who follow in second and third with 23 and 22 points respectively.
 
 The Blues pulled all the strings in the first half as they pressed hard allowing little room for the rival medios to operate. The Blue Army, who added to the Republic Day fervour at the Sree Kanteerava stadium with the tricolour fluttering in the West Block stand, celebrated their team's opening goal in the 14th minute as Spanish defender Juan Gonzalez made the most out of a setpiece.
 
 The freekick, one of the many NorthEast conceded on the night, came from nearly 30-35 yards away but with pinpoint accuracy. The entire Blues line were up against the rival wall from where Juan climbed high above his marker and headed in the open.
 
 The Highlanders threatened mainly through ex-Blue Doungel and Holicharan Narzary and it was the former who helped his team grab the equalizer in the 45th minute. The Manipuri, who scored a hat-trick in the last match, sprinted through the right and defender Subasish Bose, who went to challenge deep inside the box, was ruled to have handled the ball by the linesman prompting the referee to point to the spot. Brazilian   didn't make any mistake as he beat Gurpreet Singh Sandhu with ease.
 
 Chhetri continued his fine form as he netted in the 51st minute which proved to be the winner for the Blues. The move came through the right when an overlapping Harmanjot Singh Khabra sent in a probing cross which was led to Chhetri's feet by NorthEast defender Mamadu Cande who set up the wily striker in his effort to clear the ball. Chhetri, not one to miss such gilt-edged chances, shot past a stranded NorthEast goalkeeper TP Rehenesh. It was Chhetri's eighth goal and is now only one behind his partner Miku.
 
 Blues coach Albert Roca gave credit to NorthEast for their fighting display and said they deserved to be much higher in the table. "We knew they are a tough team to beat with a set of good players. They had a bad start (to the season) but they will continue to improve," Roca told reporters.
 
 NorthEast coach Avram Grant said: "Yes we did well in the second half but we didn't make the most of the chances. Our last pass was not good. The first goal came from a setpiece and the second from a mistake of our defender. They are a good team but today we made their life difficult but they won."
 
 
 
 
 The match was disrupted for five minutes in the first half with one floodlight tower going off. This saw the fans play their part as they flashed torchlights from their mobile phones from all around the stadium. Finally, play resumed with lights partially restored.
 
 
  2 (Juan Gonzalez 14, Sunil Chhetri 51) bt   1 (Marcinho 45)
 
 
