MIDNAPORE: The state government on Sunday revoked the orders issued by former West   SP  , transferring 91 cops, days before she was herself transferred out of West Midnapore and sent to Barrackpore to take charge of the State Armed Police’s (SAP) third battalion as its commanding officer (CO). Ghosh had transferred three sub-inspectors, one ASI and 87 constables before she put in her papers to DGP Surajit Kar Purkayashtha and went on an extended leave.

 The move came on a day when minister Suvendu Adhikari spoke out on the issue without naming anyone. Addressing a rally at   high school ground, Suvendu alleged, “Before the Sabang bypoll, a plot was hatched by an expelled party leader. According to the blueprint, the party leader was given telephone numbers of our leaders. These leaders were being intimidated. The party supremo has found out who gave these telephone numbers. That person has been sent packing.” Adhikari’s statement, for the first time, sheds lights on the reasons for the transfer.
 
 Ghosh refused to speak to media. Repeated attempts to reach out to her failed to evoke any response.
 
 “The transfer order has been amended today,” West Midnapore SP Aloke Rajoria said. Cancellation of the bulk transfer orders asking the personnel not to move out of their base stations, sources said, appeared inevitable given the manner the orders were issued in the first place. Ghosh issued the orders on December 23, only two days before she herself received her transfer orders. In the district police circles, the personnel transferred were known for their proximity to the senior cop.
 
 Also, two senior officers — Garbeta OC and deputy SP (DEB) Jhargram — have been shifted out from their present postings. Extended leaves granted to some among those transferred is also being enquired into, senior officers indicated. The decisions taken after the nod from Nabanna give a clear indication that the district police purging is an attempt to weed out officers perceived loyal to Ghosh, a senior officer said.
 
  on Sunday issued a statement rubbishing suggestions that Ghosh has sent a letter to the state BJP president Dilip Ghosh expressing her intent to join the party. The statement dubbed this as “malicious news”.
 
 A source said she kept up with her weekly ritual of offering obeisance at a   temple in Midnapore town. On Sunday, however, there was no police barricade around the temple. She walked in quietly with two bodyguards and left after a while.
 
