COIMBATORE: It was a revelation for 20-year-old SB Prem when he learned that development works conducted at parks and roads in his area were carried out by the   and such projects were mentioned in the yearly budget book. “I was even unaware that a budget was released every year by the city corporation,” he said.

  of Wild Wing Trust began explaining what a revenue receipt and capital receipt meant as 30 residents from various walks of life from Coimbatore listened to him keenly, trying to understand what the corporation budget was all about. They were part of a budget awareness discussion organised by a group of citizens.
 
 “We just wanted to get together and create awareness on the budget. We want people to make well-informed decisions and to be aware about the various projects that will be carried out in their areas,” said Saravanan.
 
 Mohammed Saleem of the   said that such discussions will empower the youth and help them take the discussion forward within their peers. “Currently, everyone has a problem with the system. But, no one has any information about what is going on. People should get to know about what is happening around them and try to reform it,” he said.
 
 Ashok Srinithi, a political aspirant, said that such forums were very important. “People need to be aware and there should be a movement for change,” he said.
 
 Some were of the opinion that awareness on the corporation budget should take place at school and college level as well apart from the residential welfare association meetings. “Whenever the Union budget is announced, everyone tries to find out what would they get and what they would lose. But, there is no information on the corporation budget. In today’s group as well, about 90% did not even know about it,” said Saravanan.
 
 The group plans to conduct awareness events at schools and colleges on corporation budget.
 
 “We will hold a similar meeting after this year’s corporation budget is announced and then decide how to take it forward,” said C Sivaraman of Wild Wing Trust. 
 
 
