TRICHY: A police investigation is under way after a murder accused received five stitches to his cheek following a fight with fellow inmate in   central prison on Saturday. The fight broke out between V  , 28, a murder accused, and P  , 37, a serial offender jailed for theft, with the latter willfully cutting the former’s cheeks with a razor.

 A case has been registered in the K K Nagar police station against Jothibasu under section 294 (b) for obscene acts or words in public. He was booked under section 324 for voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means. 
 
 Sources said Jothibasu was angry at Navaneethakrishnan who revealed his alleged sexual advances on fellow inmates . Police said Jothibasu’s attacked Navaneethakrishnan to exact vengeance for telling on him.
 
 The sources said he had forced some young prisoners into having sex with him, but they were too afraid to complain to the wardens on this. As the young inmates grew tired of Jothibasu’s behavior, they sought the help of Navaneethakrishnan to bring the issue to the warden’s notice. Later, Navaneethakrishnan raised the issue with authorities. 
 
 Following this, the jail authorities reprimanded Jothibasu severely, warning him with grievous repercussion against forcing other inmates into sex. This has angered him, police said.
 
 On Saturday night, Jothibasu picked a fight with Navaneethakrishnan, attacking him with razor, causing injuries to his cheeks. He was rushed to the prison and given first aid. K K Nagar police said that case has been registered against Jothibasu on the complaint received from assistant warden. However, the complaint didn’t specify the reason for the fight between the two.
 
 Though it is the first time that the unnatural sexual behavior of the prisoners is surfacing, violence has been reported widely from the prison. On March 13 this year, idol smuggler   had sustained serious injuries after being attacked by fellow inmate in Trichy central prison.
 
 A nun, who used to teach the inmates, was stabbed inside the prison a few years ago. It was reported that a   her when she refused his marriage proposal. In another incident, two police constables sustained stab wounds as they were attacked by a group of four on the Jail road outside the Trichy prison.
 
 
