JAIPUR: The Rajasthan high court, while cancelling the ‘illegal’ allotment of a fair price shop in Alwar, has directed the district selection committee to conduct the selection process afresh with new members in the committee.

 The single bench of Justice Manish Bhandari issued the order on a petition by Sanjay Yadav challenging the allotment to   allegedly by bypassing the guidelines of food and civil supplies department on March 17, 2016. The petitioner said he was called for the interview by the selection committee but it had remained a formality and he sent back after asking his name. The selection committee had already decided to select Sanjay Kumar, it was alleged.
 
 The petitioner filed a plea in the court even before the official declaration of the result favouring Sanjay Kumar.
 
 Vigyan Shah, counsel for the petitioner, said that according to the guidelines, the preference in the allotment of fair price shops had to be given to differently abled and women, but despite a differently abled woman applicant, Pinky, the selection committee ignored her claim and gave allotment to Sanjay Kumar.
 
 The court also directed the district collector of Alwar to act as per the rules and not endorse the majority decision of the committee blindly.
 
 
  The state government on Tuesday informed the high court that it had set in motion upgradation of facilities in the   in Jaipur and also the recruitment of technicians.
 
 The division bench of Justice M Rafiq and Justice Govardhan Bardhar was hearing a suo motu petition on the delay in getting the FSL report affecting the criminal justice system in the state and had appointed lawyer Pankaj Gupta as amicus curie in the case earlier.
 
 The state advocate general   appearing for the state presented the list of pending cases in the FSL and informed the court that the government had ordered for machines and recruitment to fill up the vacancies of technicians and upgradation of other infrastructure facilities.
 
 At present, there is no narco- analysis facility in Jaipur and it has to depend on outside for such reports leading to delay in the investigation of cases.
 
