COIMBATORE: A 21-year-old failed Kollywood actress, her mother, brother and a con man posing as her father were arrested by the cyber crime cell of the city police on Thursday for cheating a Germany-based software engineer of Rs 41 lakh.

 Police identified them as Shruthi P alias Mythili Venkatesh, who was the lead actress of the unreleased Tamil movie ‘Aadi Pona Aavani’, her mother Chitra alias  , her younger brother   and K Prasanna Venkatesh, who were staying in an apartment near Nava India.
 
 “G Balamurugan, a native of Kattuvalavu near Edappadi in Salem district, working in an automobile company in Germany, had posted his profile on a matrimonial website in May 2017. Shruthi contacted him posing as Mythili Venkatesh and proposed an alliance. They shared mobile numbers and she sent a lot of photos to Balamurugan. Using the flight ticket sent by the love-stricken man, she travelled to UK, where they met. Balamurugan spent lakhs of rupees on her. He also visited Coimbatore and spent time with her,” a police officer said.
 
 When Shruthi told him that she was undergoing treatment for brain tumour and her mother was also under treatment for heart ailment, Balamurugan gave her Rs 41 lakh in several instalments between May 2017 and January 01, 2018. However, when Balamurugan approached her for conducting betrothal ceremony, she told him that her skin would be affected due to camera flashlight and conducted the ceremony without taking photographs of the event.
 
 Balamurugan, who later sent some photos of Shruthi to his friends, had the shock of his life when they alerted him that the girl, along with her family, had duped several youngsters. He approached the city crime branch police, who registered a case against the four and arrested them on Thursday. Police also seized a car, several documents and bank transaction details from the house.
 
 The crime branch (CCB) had earlier registered a case against Shruthi for cheating   of Paramathivellore in Namakkal district of Rs 43 lakh following the same modus operandi. “The family has been using the same modus operandi to cheat youths hailing from rich families. Shruthi had earlier cheated   from Namakkal district of Rs 22 lakh, Sundar from Nagapattinam of Rs 15 lakh,   from Chidambaram in Cuddalore district of Rs 20 lakh and Rajkamal from Dindigul of Rs 21 lakh. The family is facing cases in Chennai and Nagapattinam,” a police officer said. 
 
 The city police requested people to be cautious while seeking alliances through matrimonial websites.
 
 
