CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court has summoned Hisar SP   for not releasing an accused confined to Hisar jail on parole to attend his son’s marriage despite directions from the court. The HC has also issued her a notice, asking why contempt of court proceedings should not be initiated against her for defying its directions.

 Justice Daya Chaudhary of the HC passed these orders while hearing an application petition filed by   of Hisar. “Let notice of contempt be issued to Manisha Chaudhary, Hisar SP, and Amarjit, secretary incharge, Police Lines, Hisar, to explain as to why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against them for non-compliance of the February 17 order. Both aforesaid officers are directed to remain present in court,” ordered Justice Chaudhary while adjourning the case for Monday. The matter was heard on Thursday but the order was released on Friday.
 
 The petitioner had approached the HC, seeking temporary release from jail for making marriage related arrangements and attending the function of his son Amit Kumar, which was to be solemnized on February 20. It was argued that as per provisions of Section 3 of the Haryana Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Act, 1988, the petitioner was entitled for temporary release on certain grounds. Allowing his plea, the HC, on February 17, permitted the petitioner to attend the marriage of his son in police custody for three days from February 19 to 21. The superintendent, central jail-I, Hisar, was also directed to make necessary arrangements for taking the petitioner in police custody.
 
 However, in a fresh application, the petitioner has submitted that he was not allowed to attend his son’s marriage by the district police administration Hisar despite HC directions.
 
 During the hearing of the case on February 22, the HC was apprised by the state that superintendent, Central Jail-I, Hisar, had informed the incharge of Police Lines, Hisar, that the petitioner had been granted parole by the HC to attend the marriage of his son in police custody but not to be handcuffed. Counsel for the petitioner submitted that despite that the petitioner had not been allowed to attend the marriage of his son, who remained present on the jail premises on February 20 with the copy of his release orders.
 
 Upset over the failure of the district police in making necessary arrangements in taking the accused to attend his son’s marriage despite court orders, the HC has summoned the police officers.
 
 
