PATIALA: The inclusion of   in the list of regional centres of higher education that have been granted more   to promote quality education has failed to generate an enthusiastic response from the varsity authorities, as they feel that an increase in the financial grants could have been more helpful in this direction.

 Vice-chancellor B S Ghuman, in an exclusive interaction with the TOI, said, “None of the higher educational institutions can run without autonomy. Punjabi University welcomes this decision as this would enable the university to take prompt decisions. However, as the university is facing a huge financial crunch, it would have been better if   (UGC) had been asked to increase grants, instead.”
 
 Under the new system, the Punjabi University has been granted a special status that will enable it to start new courses, offer competitive salaries and set up off-campus centres without any approvals from the UGC.
 
 The VC said UGC should chip in at least 50% grants and share the financial liabilities of the universities, which were completely dependent on the fees collected from the students to meet its expenses. He said, “Whenever we try to increase the fees, students launch a stir and the authorities have to roll back such decision. How are we going to run the universities when there is no money?”, Ghuman contended.
 
 Interestingly, the Punjabi University recently passed Rs 582 crore budget with a Rs 229 crore deficit. It already has a bank overdraft of Rs 91 crore and had been unable to pay full salaries to its employees this month resulting in a huge protest at its main gates. 
 
 The university is now deliberating upon writing to the Union government to seek additional grants instead of a special autonomous status. With its new status, the entire financial burden of starting new courses is now on the university, which is already in a financial distress.
 
 The VC said they had already requested the state government to release a financial package of Rs 300 crore to put things back on track. “While we are waiting for a positive response from the state government, the new decision seems to be creating more financial handicap for the authorities, rather than helping us tide over the crisis,” the VC said.
 
 The university authorities feel that the new status would help them launch new courses of MBA in hospital management and healthcare and in environment and solid waste management, without having to go through the process of seeking approvals from the UGC. But in absence of financial support, the new status holds little meaning for them, said one of the senior professors in the management department.
 
 Dr  , the head of the department of Guru  , said the decision might bring down the red-tape in getting approvals, but the university is not going to gain much from it. “To run institutions of higher education, you need finances and in case of Punjabi University, the fee structure is quite low. Whenever efforts are made to increase the fees, the university faces agitations by the students. Hence, the UGC must enhance the financial grants rather than increasing the administrative autonomy of the university,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the VC said, “Students’ fee is our primary source of revenue. There are more than 50% seats lying vacant on our main campus as well as on the neighbourhood campuses. The plans to expand the distance education at the national and international level are also in pipeline. However, even after we achieve all this, finance will still pose a problem. Therefore, it would have been better if they announced more grants”.
 
 
