NEW DELHI: The   (NIA) is unlikely to challenge the acquittal of   and four others in the   blast case as it has “little material evidence” against the accused and chargesheets were filed largely relying on confessional statements. 

 The confessional statements have been challenged with Aseemanand claiming he gave them under “duress”. The NIA said it will “examine the court judgment when we get a copy of the same and decide further course of action”. 
 
 However, sources said the NIA’s probe in the Mecca Masjid blast was based on identical confessional statements as in the 2007   Dargah and Samjhauta blasts. It was difficult to sustain the argument that Aseemanand was the main link in the Mecca Masjid and Ajmer blasts once the latter case fell apart. In Mecca Masjid and Samjhauta blasts, no material evidence was recovered or presented by the NIA in court other than explosive samples. 
 
 The agency had claimed in its chargesheets that Aseemanand, who hails from West Bengal, was a key player in radicalising and recruiting people for the cause of “saffron vengeance” against jihadi terrorism by targeting Muslims. Apart from Aseemanand, there were a few common accused in the three cases — Sandeep Dange and Ramchandra Kalsangra (both absconding), Lokesh Sharma, Devendra Gupta and the slain  . 
 
 In the Ajmer blast case, a Jaipur court had junked Aseemanand’s confession recorded in 2010, which the NIA had projected as its most credible evidence. The court had observed that Aseemanand's confession was “tainted” as it was taken in police custody. 
 
 The agency’s probe in Mecca Masjid and Ajmer blasts stressed that Aseemanand had confessed to being part of a plot to perpetuate “Hindu terror”. “If Aseemanand, who was labelled as the link in these blasts, was acquitted in the Ajmer blast case last year, and there wasn’t any material evidence, then it would be difficult for NIA to sustain an appeal in Mecca Masjid blast as well,” an officer said. 
 
 The NIA had decided not to challenge Aseemanand’s acquittal in the Ajmer case as its legal team had advised that “it doesn't have any other tenable evidence other than that already presented in court”. 
 
 Former NIA chief Sharad Kumar had told TOI last year that the decision not to challenge Aseemanand’s acquittal in the Ajmer case was taken as “no purpose would be served in filing an appeal as the judgment had laid very strong grounds for acquittal”. 
 
 “Aseemanand is a victim of political terrorism. First Jaipur court and now Hyderabad court has ruled that he is innocent, which shows how a bundle of lies was weaved to frame him,” Aseemanand’s lawyer Manbir Rathi told TOIon Monday. 
 
 Officials said the acquittals in Mecca Masjid blast will affect the trial in Samjhauta case, which is going on in a   court. While most of the prime witnesses have retracted their statements, the NIA court is waiting for 13 Pakistani nationals to come to India and record their statements.
 
