LUDHIANA: Railway passengers of the   division will soon be able to purchase unreserved tickets through a mobile-based app Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS) for travelling in almost all short as well long-distance trains. The concerned officials at the Ferozpur division have sent the testing report to higher authorities seeking its early commencement.

 With the availability of a mobile app to book unreserved tickets will unburden the passengers travelling in general compartments. This is because, earlier, they had to stand in long queues for several hours for getting train tickets from general ticket booking counters at the city railway station. 
 
 Moreover, the problem of charging excessive amount for a general ticket will automatically come to an end with the start of the digital transaction process.
 
 According to the data available with The Times of India, a test report regarding the commencement of the UTS app for the passengers boarding train at the Ferozepur division has been sent to the   (CRIS) for enabling the technology as soon as possible.
 
 The senior divisional commercial manager of Ferozpur division, Monu Luthra, said the report of the UTS app has already been sent. The app is being introduced to promote paperless transactions in the railway department. Now, we are waiting for the green signal from CRIS, so that we can start the campaign to make the passengers aware about the mobile App. Passengers can make payment through their credit and debit cards without facing any hardships.”
 
 Several specifications have been kept under consideration while developing the app. If a passenger wants to get an unreserved ticket, then the passenger has stay between 70m to 5km from the railway tracks for app to function properly. A passenger can also get a platform ticket by following the same specification for better functioning of the app. Luthra said, it will take approximately one month for this project to start and be used by the passengers. The higher authorities at CRIS are likely to enable the functioning of the app by the first week of June, he added.
 
 “Southern railway authorities have already started this project and the same will be implemented in our division in the forthcoming days for the convenience of the passengers travelling regularly on unreserved tickets,” Luthra said.
 
 One of the passenger,  , claimed, “The railways have done drastic development in their ticket generating system, but the problem of getting unreserved ticket from the station counters after standing in queues remained the same. The app, if starts, will be a great relief to passengers, mostly travelling on unreserved tickets.”
 
