GUWAHATI: A five-year-old boy,  , was kidnapped from a playschool in the city's Sreenagar area on Monday morning. After a  , police managed to   from Fatasil Ambari in Dhirenpara at around 10.20 pm. Police have also arrested three persons, including a woman - identified as Gullu, his wife, and Deepak. Police said Gullu was known to the child's family and the intention behind the kidnapping was ransom. 

 The kidnapper allegedly came to the school at around 11.30 am and introduced himself as a family member, saying he needed to take Manbik away because of a family emergency. Manbik is a specially-abled nursery student. His father is Bikash Surana, a trader from Nagaon.
 
 A senior Dispur Police official said, "The alleged kidnapper told the school staff that he had come to pick up the boy to take him to Nagaon where the kid's father resides. Another gang member, posing as the boy's mother, called the school authorities and asked them to hand over the kid. Later, when the boy's real mother came to school to pick up her son, it was found that someone had possibly abducted the boy."
 
 Sources said Manbik and his mother have been residing in the city because he has been undergoing physiotherapy treatment here. He was reportedly admitted to the school two months ago. 
 
 Police sources said the kidnapper is suspected to have come to the school on a two-wheeler because members of the school staff have said he was carrying a helmet with him. Sources added that the kidnapper also called Manbik by his pet name to pose as someone close to him. "It looks like the kidnapping was a planned one as he targeted the specially-abled kid and knew the child's details," police added. 
 
 Krisha Saha, whose child also studies in the playschool, said, "This is just pure negligence on part of the school authorities. How can they hand over the kid to someone who is unknown? They didn't even hesitate to hand over the kid without verifying the matter with the parents." Guardians also alleged that it is lamentable that no CCTV cameras are installed on the school premises despite the hefty fees the students are charged. 
 
 Earlier, police had sounded an alert and tightened checking at all exit points of the city. 
 
 
