NEW DELHI: Congress MP   has been charged under two legal provisions of the Indian Penal Code: Section 306, which deals with abetment of suicide, and Section 498A related to cruelty by husband or his relatives. While the latter charge entails a maximum punishment of three years, abetment of suicide is a more serious crime and can put a person behind bars for up to 10 years.

 
 Filing the chargesheet, public prosecutor Atul Kumar Shrivastava apprised metropolitan magistrate Dharmender Singh of the provisions under which Tharoor was being charged and asked that the MP be summoned as an accused in the case. The court will hear the matter for May 24. The court, however, will have to subsequently commit the case to a designated court entrusted with cases pertaining to parliamentarians.
 
 “As the charge is non-bailable, the court may issue a warrant for an arrest. But in most such situations, the court will only summon the accused, also because Tharoor has made himself available for investigations throughout the period,” explained senior counsel Ramesh Gupta. On how the court could consider the matter, Gupta said the court could return the chargesheet for further investigation or it could accept the chargesheet and issue summons or a warrant as the charges are non-bailable or the court could disagree with the police and take no cognisance of either charge.
 
 If the court gives cognisance to the charges, Tharoor could challenge it in the appropriate forum, Gupta said.
 
 Senior lawyer Rebecca John said several judgments of Delhi high court have laid down that if police chose not to arrest someone during the investigation of a crime, then there was no reason for the court to deny bail to the accused. “The norm and judicial precedence favours the grant of bail in these circumstances,” John told TOI.
 
 On Monday, Shrivastava told the magisterial court that it had been around three years and three months since the marriage of Pushkar and Tharoor. The public prosecutor relied on Section 113A of the Indian Evidence Act to state that if a woman’s suicide was abetted by her husband or any relative of the husband and it was shown that she had committed suicide within a period of seven years from the date of her marriage and that she was subjected to cruelty, then the court could presume that such a suicide had been abetted by her husband or by a relative of her husband.
 
 The prosecutor submitted, therefore, that only a prima facie case had to be established in order to summon the accused. The prosecution also informed the court that Tharoor had cooperated with the investigation till date.
 
 
