Chennai: Exam season may have nearly come to a close but for Class XII students it’s the busiest time before college. The urgency of the science students is apparent with coaching centres offering month-long crash course for NEET registering double the number of enrollments from last year.

 While both JEE and NEET are in demand, the flavour of the season seems to be the medical entrance test, scheduled on May 6. Coaching centres that running crash courses till May 4 said they received several enquiries from students from across the state. Winner’s academy said there was tremendous interest from districts like Rajapalayam, Coimbatore, Erode and also Puducherry. “We were surprised to see students from different states and countries enrolling with us. Students from Pune, Calcutta, Dubai and Malaysia have approached us for the course,” said Sanjay Gaglani who runs the academy. The academy had about 50 students last year now but with 140 students this year has had to imcrease the number of batches from one to three. “Slots are full for the next two years,” said Gaglani.
 
 As the demand for enrollments has increased, so has the fee for some of the centres which has gone up from an average of Rs30,000 to Rs40,000 for the month-long course. Comparatively, in other districts, the range is lower starting from Rs15,000 and going up to Rs25,000.
 
 Pioneer Academy said while they restricted the number of admissions, they received almost triple the number of enquiries they usually get. “Unlike last year when many students were hoping for an exemption, this time all of them want to be prepared. Since schools may not be able to provide training that is required for competitive exams, many are flocking to private tuitions,” said Rajesh R, director of the academy, which is training students from as far as Nagarcoil and Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Centres said both CBSE and state board students have enrolled for the classes and while a section of students who have enrolled are those who took a break year, many of them are from the present batch. 
 
 Most of these centres have run year-long courses where portions have been completed for Class XI and Class XII. The crash course will help brush up concepts and test them in the format of the competitive exam. Following the pattern of last year, coaching centres have also tied up with schools where the coaching faculty is visiting campuses to train students.
 
 
