CHENNAI:   Lalpekhlua finally scored after seven matches and 650-odd minutes! And what a game did he pick to break his goal drought! Riding his brace (26th and 90th minute) and Dhanpal Ganesh’s 29th minute strike, the 2015 champions   (CFC) thrashed   3-0 on the night and 4-1 on aggregate to set up the ISL-4 summit clash with  . The final will be played at the Kanteerava Stadium in Bengaluru on Saturday.

 
 
 
 The second-leg of the second semifinal panned out in a similar fashion to the first-leg. Only that Chennaiyin scored two goals more and Goa didn’t. The match was supposed to be a clash between two philosophies - Goa’s pass-based attacking football and Chennaiyin’s pragmatic, counter-attacking and result-oriented approach. In the end, it seemed Sergio Lobera’s Goa played straight into John Gregory’s hands. 
 
 
 
 Chennaiyin focused on winning the war rather than the smaller battles. So they never bothered about Goa’s 66 per cent possession, patiently went on thwarting Goa’s attacks and seized most of the opportunities coming their way. 
 
 Goa, who had to negate Chennaiyin’s away-goal advantage, had the right intent though. There was an aggression and a purpose to their passing with the players bringing in a lot of energy. It helped them in creating plenty of chances in the first 20 minutes. But Chennaiyin’s defence stood firm, barely making any mistakes. They were so tightly-knit that Ferran Corominas and Manuel Lanzarote, who share 30 goals between them, hardly seemed threatening. Even if they did find some space to shoot, Karanjit Singh had Chennaiyin’s goal well guarded. The goalkeeper made fantastic saves when he tipped away Lanzarote’s free-kicks — one from 20 yards in the 12th minute and the other from 27 yards in the 86th minute.
 
 Goa’s best chance came in the 17th minute. Just for once it seemed that Chennaiyin defence went off to sleep and Chinglensana Singh had a free header off a Lanzarote cross from the right. With Karanjit late to come off his line, he had ample time. But he headed the ball wide. 
 
 Goa’s all-out approach had risks involved and they paid for it. In the 22nd minute, an unmarked Jeje leapt a bit late for a Francisco Fernandes cross and couldn’t keep his header on target. Four minutes later, the 27-year-old Mizo striker was again left free and he made amends. He timed his jump to perfection and headed home a Gregory Nelson cross for his eighth goal of the season.
 
 Goa’s defence was left stunned. Before they could recover, Dhanpal Ganesh slotted home Chennaiyin’s second in the 29th minute. Nelson’s well-flighted free-kick evaded Goa’s defence and goalkeeper Naveen Kumar and Ganesh was at the right place in the right moment. 
 
 Goa then had a mountain to climb. They started the second half in the same way but they lacked creativity to carve open Chennaiyin’s defence. Much to their disappointment, Chennaiyin not only held on to their two-goal lead but scored in the last minute to pile on their misery. Jaime Gavilan, who replaced Raphael Augusto, threaded a pass to Jeje. Mohamed Ali was in the way of the pass but he made a mess of it and the ball landed at Jeje’s feet. Jeje calmly finished with his left foot and sparked off the celebrations among the 19013-strong crowd.
 
