GURUGRAM: An   was registered against   Construction Pvt Ltd at the Sector 10 police station on Thursday after homebuyers alleged on the CM window and at the department of town and country planning ( ) that the developer collected money from them for a housing project but the licence for the same was with another developer. It was the first case to be filed under the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Act ( ). 

 The FIR was registered under sections 3,7,10 of H-Rera and Section 3 of Haryana Development and Regulations of Urban Areas Act, 1975, on the recommendation of DTCP (enforcement). According to homebuyers,   Housing collected money from them for a project named Ansal Housing in Sector 92, but the project licence was in the name of another developer, JSG Builders Pvt ltd and NCC Urban Infrastructure Ltd. 
 
 DTCP officials said that they had sent a recommendation for an FIR in November last year as they had found no records of a licence in the name of Ansal Housing Construction Pvt Ltd. Recently, DTCP had sent reminder to police for filing the same. “We had received a complaint from an individual named Anand Singh Malik in 2017, saying that the licence was in the name of some other developer while the money was collected by Ansal,” said Narendra Kumar, assistant town planner, DTCP. 
 
 Further, the project wasn’t registered under H-Rera, amounting to action against the developer as well.
 
 According to the FIR which TOI accessed, the Haryana Development and Regulations of Urban Areas Act states that any owner desiring to convert his land into a colony should make an application to the director, town and country planning, for a licence and pay the licence fee. If the developer failed to submit the application and pay the licence fee, the developer would be liable for criminal action. “The licence for the said land was originally issued to JSG Builders Pvt ltd and NCC Urban Infrastructure Ltd for developing a residential group housing society and it has not been transferred to Ansals,” said the FIR.
 
 According to the licence agreement, said that the developer should not advertise the project without the approval of the building plan. The building plan for the project was approved on March 3, 2015, by DTCP but the developer had not only advertised the project earlier but also accepted payments from homebuyers in 2011. Ansal Housing Construction Pvt Ltd could not be reached for a comment.
 
 
