BENGALURU: Chief minister   and the man challenging him,  , are a picture of contrasts as they have plunged into campaigning in their respective constituencies in Chamundeshwari and Shikaripur.

 
 On Thursday, Yeddyurappa filed his nomination accompanied by a group of supporters in Shivamogga, while a day later Siddaramaiah too finished the formalities in Mysuru even as his party workers were engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation with rival JD(S) activists.
 
 The contrasts though run deeper. Siddaramaiah is a virtual lone ranger in his constituency, battling a friend-turned-foe in JD(S) candidate  . Yeddyurappa, however, has most of his rivals from past elections now steering his campaign.
 
 "The change in scenario in a decade or so is interesting and politically significant. The   is hoping to win with Siddaramaiah as its face, but he is struggling a bit in his own constituency, hindering his availability for the party's campaigning elsewhere. On the other hand, Yeddyurappa, who the   once considered a liability, is a formidable candidate in Shikaripur, making him relatively free to fight for his party candidates," said NK Mohanram, a political analyst.
 
 Yeddyurappa is expected to have a cakewalk in Shikaripur, where he has been winning since 1983, barring once in 1999.
 
 Congress leader Mahalingappa, who had defeated Yeddyurappa in 1999, is now the BJP state president's poll manager. K Shekharappa, who was the Congress candidate against Yeddyurappa in three elections, is now an active member of the BJP camp in Shikaripur. HS Shanthaveerappa Gowda, who gave a tough fight to the former CM as the Congress candidate during last polls, is also on Yeddyurappa's side.BD Bhookanth, who was the JD(S) candidate in 2013, too has switched over to the Yeddyurappa camp.
 
 "Such is the strength of Yeddyurappa that even rivals have become his followers. Where is the chance of him losing this election?" asks BJ Puttaswamy, BJP MLC and close aide of Yeddyurappa.
 
 In stark contrast, the chief minister is having a tough time in his Chamundeshwari campaign. Fearing defeat, he has picked Badami as his second constituency.
 
 "The BJP leadership initially wanted Yeddyurappa to contest from a constituency in North Karnataka, but he finally got his own seat back," pointed out Venkatanarayana, a senior journalist and political observer.
 
 The analysts point at how Siddaramaiah has become friendless in his one-time pocket borough. Congress leaders like V Srinivas Prasad and H Vishwanath, who had backed him to the hilt in the 2006 bypoll from Chamundeshwari and ensured that he won in the face of a strong challenge from the JD(S)-BJP combine, have fallen out with him and are now in rival camps.
 
 While Prasad is with the BJP, fellow Kuruba leader Vishwanath is with the JD(S), plotting Siddaramaiah's defeat. Siddaramaiah's Man Friday, HC Mahadevappa, too is rarely seen in Chamundeshwari campaign in the wake of reports that he is miffed with the chief minister over denial of ticket for his son.
 
 The Siddaramiah camp, however, is undeterred. "Siddaramaiah is a tall leader who has created a vote bank for the Congress in the entire state and he faces no difficulty in Chamundeshwari. Yes, leaders like Srinivas Prasad and Vishwanath have switched sides, but remember he steered the party to victory in Nanjangud and Gundlupet bypolls recently without them. These leaders may not be with him but lakhs of voters are," said KPCC general secretary and Siddaramiah's close confidant BS Shivanna.
 
