TUTICORIN: Though the heavy showers cheered up residents, its timing left farmers a worried lot as paddy cultivated on hundreds of acres was submerged in more than a feet deep water at many places. The rain also affected the movement of trains, especially between Tuticorin and Tirunelveli. 

 As the 100-day Pisanam paddy cultivation season was drawing to an end, many farmers had harvested their produce. Those who cultivated the crop on several thousand acres were waiting to harvest their paddy in the next seven to 10 days, said farmers from Vallanadu and Vasavappapuram in Tuticorin. Marimuthu, 36, of Vallanadu said that paddy on his eight acres was getting ready for harvest in two days when the rains submerged them on Tuesday night. “There is no place for water to get drained. Since the crops have soaked they have to be harvested in a week, else they will sprout,” he lamented.
 
 Kallatiyan, 28, of   said that it would not be possible to harvest the crops within a week. “Now harvesting is mechanized and the huge and heavy harvesters cannot enter the field when the soil is so wet. So we are left with no option but to pray and wait for no more rains and for water to get drained,” he added.   and   in Tirunelveli district whose fields have submerged in the water are also worried.
 
 The flooded Tuticorin railway station also affected movement of long distance and passenger trains. Pearl City Express (Muthunagar) that used to reach the station between 6.45 am and 7 am could not enter the inundated station and had to be stopped a kilometre ahead at Melur. After dropping passengers it had to return to Tirunelveli and was scheduled to operate from Tuticorin in the night. Railway officials said that Mysore Express reached the station at 12.15 pm against the scheduled time of 11.15 am. The train from Tuticorin to Tiruchendur via Tirunelveli started at 11 am against the scheduled departure time of 8.45 am. The train from Tirunelveli reached Tuticorin at 12.45 pm against the scheduled time of 9.35 am.
 
 
