AHMEDABAD: Two Patidar groups have submitted their statements before retired justice K A Puj committee, which is probing into alleged police atrocities on Patidars during the   quota agitation in August 2015. The statements given by the groups differ regarding the name of the policeman who had killed a father-son duo in Vastral on August 26, 2015.

 An affidavit filed on Monday by  , resident of Vastral, who had also given his statement at Metropolitan court, reads, “At the time of the incident, Sidhharthbhai Patel and his father   had succumbed to bullet injuries during the police firing. The firing which took the lives of Siddharthbhai and Gopalbhai was done by PSI Parghi.”
 
 On the other hand, a statement given by the former aide of   — Dinesh Bambhania and nine others — held former police inspector of Ramol, Paresh Solanki, as the person responsible for the incident.
 
 “In case of Vastral, police inspector Solanki lodged the first information report on August 26, 2015 that a mob of 15 Patidar community members had assaulted him and his police force, snatched away his service revolver and tried to fire on him. However, he could avoid being hit by the bullets fired from the service revolver by bending on the ground, which resulted in the killing of the father and son named Girishbhai and Siddharth,” Bhambania’s statement reads.
 
 Bambhania added further in his statement, “However, when the autopsy report of the father and son was received by the police, the concerned police inspector was compelled to change his version of the incident. In further statement, the said police inspector has changed his version diabolically by stating that the mob of 15 persons of the Patidar community had snatched away an AK-56 rifle from his constable and started open firing.”
 
 When Jatin Patel was contacted he said that PI Solanki was not even present at the spot, and the gun was fired by PSI S L Parghi on August 26, 2015, killing the father-son duo. “I am a resident of Vastral and I was an eyewitness of the killings, which I had also stated before a local court,” said Jatin, a former president of Sardar Patel Group (SPG) in Ahmedabad.
 
 
