JOHANNESBURG: Devastated at the effort he came up with in Centurion, in a Test match that could’ve been a golden opportunity for   to reverse his fortunes in the national team, the 32-year-old has been honest enough to take the responsibility.

 
 In team meetings held post the Centurion Test, it is learned that Parthiv did not spare himself one bit in taking the blame for a very ordinary performance and admitted that as a senior member of the side, he would be looking at things with utmost seriousness.
 
 
 
 
 
 Close to 15 years after he made his debut on a very gruelling tour of England and helped India save defeat in Trent Bridge, Parthiv lost out on luck and break both when   grabbed the all-important slot in the playing eleven.
 
 Post his debut, the only contender that Parthiv had to compete with for any space was Karthik. However, in MS Dhoni’s presence, an opportunity like that one never came.
 
 
 
 
 
 Handed a golden opportunity again, the Gujarat cricketer couldn’t have waited for a bigger occasion to grab the slot and become a contender for India’s five-Test tour of England later this year, if not for the botched-up Centurion game.
 
 It wasn’t only about dropped catches, that bring a poor tally by itself. It was the manner in which he stared at Cheteshwar Pujara after failing to go for a catch when South African opener Dean Elgar edged a pacy Jasprit Bumrah delivery in the second innings on Day Three of the Centurion Test.
 
 That attempt or lack of it got him roasted on the social media.
 
 Post the Test, skipper   is learnt to have spared a few words in letting the wicketkeeper know about the performance he chipped in.
 
 Karthik, who flew into   three days ago, padded up and hit the nets straight away during the team’s practice session at the Wanderers on Sunday. It was clear that Parthiv may have already lost his place in the eleven to the Chennai cricketer post his Centurion sojourn.
 
 The tour did turn out to be a case of ‘what could’ve been’ for a deserving Parthiv.
 
 
