PUNE: Education activist   has written to the governor on Sunday, requesting him to intervene in the education department’s decision to close more than 1300 schools.

 Analysing the UDISE data, Darak in his letter said , with the closure of schools, marginalized population from SC,ST, OBC and minority communities will be badly affected.
 
 He has written two letters on December 18 and 24 to the chief minister pointing out the irregularities in the process of closing down schools.
  
 Darak analysed UDISE data published in 2016 from three districts in the state. He said the closing down of schools is in violation of the constitutional promise of fundamental Right to Education mentioned in Article 21A of the constitution and the worst affected would be children from marginalized communities.
 
  
  
 “In four of the schools from Sangli district, OBC students constitute the majority (54% to 93%) and in other 2 schools from the same district, Muslim students constitute the majority (85% to 100%). Please also note that 4% students among these students are of children with special needs,” the letter said.
 
  In Ahmednagar district, 11 schools facing closure now have 100% children from Scheduled Tribes and around five schools have 100% children from the Muslim community. 
 
 In addition, there are six schools with OBC children forming the majority (50% to 91.6%), two schools with ST children forming the majority (80% and 90%), and one school with children from Scheduled Castes forming the majority (71.4%). 
 
 In Akole block alone in Ahmednagar district, nine schools among the 14 facing closure have all the children coming from the Scheduled Tribes, the letter added.
 
 Talking about schools being shut down in Pune district, the letter says that Pune has one school catering to 100% Scheduled Caste students, three schools have 100% Scheduled Tribe students, five are with 100% OBC students and one school has 100% Muslim students.
 
 “Depending on demographic distribution within a region or within a district, different groups among the marginalised sections are likely to be affected adversely due to the decision. In Ahmednagar district, overall 44.6% children from ST category would suffer because of this decision. But in Akole block of the same district which has the highest population from ST category within the district, 87.6% children coming from tribal communities are likely to face adverse effects of school closure,” he said.
 
 Darak has requested the governor to issue orders to the the education department to unconditionally withdraw its decision of school closure or school merger, and to put its survey related to these 1,300 schools in public domain. 
 
 He said the governor must constitute a state-level committee of experts to develop ways and modalities to run schools with low enrolments instead of shutting them down.
 
 
