AHMEDABAD: For someone who has survived cancer, the journey, even though full of struggle, pain and hardships, is a life-changing experience. Celebrating their victory against cancer, a city-based businessman –   – organized a picnic for   ‘winners’ on the eve of World Cancer Day which falls on February 4. Some 150 cancer ‘winners’ participated in the picnic which was organized at Bopal.

 “Our aim was not to give them awards. Their victory over cancer after a major battle with their own selves was their biggest reward. Hence, we call them cancer ‘winners’ and the intent of organizing this picnic is only to celebrate their victory and let them all enjoy and get to know each other,” said Jhaveri, who drew inspiration for the initiative from his mother, who is also a cancer winner, as he calls it.
 
 Sharing his experience of being at the picnic, 51-year-old cancer ‘winner’,  , said, “We’re all enjoying here as if it is a celebration of our struggle for years and each one has a different story to share! I’d been detected with mouth cancer. While I took necessary treatment, it was the support and encouragement from my family that helped me steer through it.”
 
 Medical practitioners also emphasized the importance of such initiatives, as cancer support groups always help keep cancer patients motivated and improve the quality of their life. 
 
 Speaking about this, Dr  , director, HCG Cancer Centre, said, “We, as cancer surgeons, assure our patients that we’re with them in their battle against cancer. However, support groups give patients what doctors and even internet cannot – from opening up about their experiences to discussing most intimate details on how to make love.”
 
 “Such discussions make the life of a cancer patient much easier by doing away with their inhibitions,” added Dr Patel.
 
 
 
 
 Amita Modi, 44, survived tongue cancer
 
 Amita was diagnosed with cancer when she was 30 and her daughter was one and a half years old. “Every night before I went to bed I used to ask God why me! And eventually got the answer from within that I am strong and must win this battle over cancer. It is this determination that helped me  ,” she said. “When my daughter grew up I told her about this. Now she looks up to me as her idol and that’s my biggest reward,” said Amita.
 
 Asha Jhaveri, 75, survived cervical cancer
 
 Diagnosed with cervical cancer some 14 years ago, Asha gracefully battled cancer. “When I learnt I had cancer, I was not perplexed or shocked. Even though my family members were worried, I accepted it and knew the worst had passed. All I did was keeping my willpower strong while the treatment was under way. Chemotherapy and radiation were extremely painful but my faith in God was undeterred and here I am, way better than how I was,” said Asha.
 
