KOLKATA: If you thought today’s typical teenager is a smartphone-toting, laptop-using social media addict, maybe it’s time to think again, a recent survey has indicated.

 The study, Annual Status of Education Report (ASER), prepared by the NGO, Pratham, has found that as many as 74.4% of the respondents have never used the internet, and as many as 64.6% have never used a computer. The study was conducted on those in the 14-18 age-group. As many as 1,078 teenagers in 956 households from 60 villages in South 24-Parganas were surveyed.
 
 Every year since 2005, ASER has been reporting on children’s schooling status and their ability to perform basic reading and arithmetic tasks. Since 2006, ASER had focused on the 5-16 age-group. “Over this period, a clearly visible trend is that more and more students are completing eight years of elementary school at 14. Just four years later, these young people will become adults. So, what do these youth do during these four years? Are we ensuring that they acquire the skills and abilities they will need to lead productive lives as adults? To answer this question, ASER 2017 focuses on an older age-group: 14 to 18,” an official said.
 
  
  
 
 
 The study also throws up some interesting figures. As many as 22.3% have never used a mobile. In the Madurai district of   (this was the study’s Tamil Nadu target district), however, only 3.5% of those surveyed never used a mobile, 27.1% never used computers and 59.6% never used the internet. In  , only 0.4% never used a mobile, 1.6% never used computers and 10.5% never used the internet.
 
 Financial participation/independence seems to be on the higher side in South 24-Parganas. As many as 88.4% respondents have their own bank accounts, a high figure, compared with the national average of 74.3%. Also, 69.6% of those surveyed have deposited or withdrawn money from banks as compared with 51% of the national average. However, the district’s youths lag behind in digital banking. Only 9.6% of them said they used an ATM, and 3.2% said they used internet banking. The corresponding national averages are 15.7% and 4.6% respectively.
 
 “We shall sit and discuss the matter once we receive the data,” said  , chairman of the expert committee for syllabus revamp. “Though it is not a part of the curriculum, the government aims to use e-learning materials and start smart classes. This data will help us find a mechanism to make the youth more technology-savvy.”
 
 The figures culled from the district, however, may not be representative of the entire state’s. “One thousand seventy-eight teenagers in 956 households in 60 villages is a very small number, compared with the more than 8 lakh students appearing in Higher Secondary examinations,” said a senior school education department official. “We would have got a better picture if it were a more elaborate study.”
 
 
