NASHIK: Despite several promises by the civic body on taking the necessary steps, the   lies abandoned due to lack of maintenance, cleanliness and security issues. The situation has been more or less same for the past few years. 

 The Park, which has an entry from Chopda Lawns bridge, is facing the perennial problem of maintenance issues. The pavements are broken, there is overgrowth of shrubs, and the issue of sewage leaking into the Godavari from the chambers is continuing. 
 
 Unclean pathways, stink from the drainage water, garbage, lack of lights on the patch near Chopda Lawns, giving rise to security concerns, plague the dream project of   chief   that was projected to be converted on the lines of the riverfront park along Sabarmati. 
 
 Barring the beginning part near Bapu Bridge, the project has failed to yield the expected results. 
 
 The park was conceptualised and constructed when Raj Thackeray was in Shiv Sena. Later, development of this park and the overall beautification of the Godavari was the poll plank of the MNS. 
 
 "This area is deserted and people have stopped going to this part of the park. Earlier, the road leading to the park from the bridge was wide. Now, a wall constructed by its side has made the road very narrow. This part of the park is unkempt and unsafe," said Meenakshi R, a teacher.
 
 "This is a very serious issue. The sewage water mixes directly with the river upstream of Ramkund. The high court and former revenue commissioner Mahesh Zagade had directed a sewage audit. It should be done at the earliest," said  , the petitioner of the river pollution case. 
 
 An NMC official said, "I will ask the officer in charge to look into the matter of plantation and paver blocks and we will get the needful done at the earliest."
 
 Another official said the NMC was keeping an eye on all these issues. "On Friday, we had collected water samples and found that it was clear. Yet I will talk to the concerned official and ask him to check out if the sewage is flowing into the river," the official said. 
 
 
 
