BHUBANESWAR: The ruling   on Sunday upped the ante against   minister of state for railways  , who criticized the state government over delay in land acquisition for crucial railway projects. 

 The youth and students wings of the BJD took out a motorcycle rally from the party's state headquarters to Master Canteen and staged a demonstration against the Union minister. The party accused Gohain of trying to mislead the people by making baseless allegations against the state government without having any facts.
 
 "It is unfortunate that Union ministers are blaming the state government without giving facts. Yesterday, the Union minister could not answer when he was asked to name the projects which were held up due to land acquisition problem. This proves that the Union ministers are doing it for political reasons and to deceive the people of Odisha. We condemn such attitude," said BJD student wing president Rana Pratap Patra.
 
 Gohain, who was here on Saturday to inaugurate new building at the city railway station (from platform -6 side), had stated that though the NDA government has sanctioned substantial amount for state's railway sector, some of the projects could not take off due to delay in land acquisition. "We could not initiate work on several projects due to land acquisition problem. But there is no dearth of funds to carry out these projects," Gohain had stated.
 
 The minister had also faced embarrassment when he failed to answer reporters' queries about the particular projects that failed to make headway due to delay in land acquisition. "I should have kept the information with me, but now I don't have," he said. State transport minister Nrusingha Charan Sahu had also lashed out at the Centre by saying that the railways should complete the work on the land available with it instead of indulging in blame game.
 
 Some of the long-pending railway projects in Odisha include Khurda-Balangir link, Haridaspur-Paradip line and Talcher-Bimalagarh line that would pass through   district.
 
 
