NEW DELHI: The investigations into the alleged   pulled off by businessman   to get his   in   is focused on the   (ITR) filed by him in the last few years.

 In financial year 2012-2013 — the year he got his older son admitted through EWS quota — Goyal declared an income of Rs 4.23 lakh and paid income tax of Rs 28,530. In the subsequent year, his income doubled and he declared Rs 9.12 lakh as his earnings and paid Rs 1.3 lakh as taxes. DCP (New Delhi)   confirmed these details to TOI. The FIR lodged by police detailing how Goyal pulled off the con job has also been accessed by TOI.
 
 
  
 Goyal’s ITR details for FY 2014-15 reveal that he earned Rs 7.35 lakh and paid Rs 75,000 as taxes. “This clearly indicates that his actual income in FY 2012-13 and later was much more than his declared income from all sources mentioned in the certificate submitted to the school,” Verma said.
 
 Police have also found that Goyal travelled abroad twice in the financial year in which he submitted to the school that he was from the economically weaker section. On July 12, 2012, he travelled to Bangkok for a holiday and stayed there for five days. He made another trip to Kathmandu on February 26, 2013. In all, he travelled abroad on 24 occasions between July 2011 and January 2018, his passport details have revealed.
 
 The   used to drop his child to school in his Audi, police have learnt. He would stop the car a short distance from the school from where his child would walk.
 
 Investigating officers said that after showing his address at Sa njay Camp in Chanakyapuri for the admission of his older son, Goyal prepared a new set of forged documents showing his new address at   in south Delhi. This was done for the admission of his second son under the general category. He chose the area as it was close to the school and he would get distance points.
 
 “On March 5, 2018, Goyal submitted attested copies of the birth certificate of his younger son, his driving licence, Aadhaar card of all family members, landline bill and voter ID of him and his wife,” a police officer said. The original documents were also shown to three members of the school administration and their photocopies were attested by Goyal and his wife in front of them.
 
 School authorities told police said that they were not intimated by Goyal about the change o f address from Sanjay Camp to Safdarjung Enclave for his older son in 2016. “The voter ID submitted then appeared to be new, so we sent it to the office of the chief electoral officer for verification,” the school said in the complaint.
 
 
