NEW DELHI: The   and Delhi Traffic Police have identified removal of   and construction of a foot-overbridge as the key to making the area near   in central Delhi safer.

  recently informed the high court that a drive is on to remove these haphazardly parked vehicles and the number of illegally parked cars has significantly come down.
 
 On its part, the PWD said that it has reached out to the Blind Relief Association seeking their input on the location of the proposed FoB as the same has been cleared by the committee of stakeholders.
 
 A bench of acting chief justice Gita Mittal and justice C Hari Shankar then asked the agencies, including  , to file a status report in three weeks’ time on the latest position and posted the matter for May 14.
 
 Meanwhile, the court appointed amicus in the case, advocate M Sufian Siddiqui contested the claim of the traffic police that the number of illegal vehicles has come down. He informed the court that on any day, the area is clogged with vehicles and Delhi Police needs to ensure a crackdown on these vehicles. Siddiqui had earlier informed the court that conditions for visually impaired students is “deplorable” due to these hindrances.
 
 However, additional standing counsel Satyakam assured the bench that pavements are being rid of illegal vehicles and a report in this connection will be filed before the next date of hearing.
 
 The court had earlier made it clear that the authorities must take immediate steps to check vehicles parked on pavements near Oberoi Hotel. “The respondents are directed to ensure that there is no unauthorised and illegal parking, which results in obstruction of the footpath or interdicts passage to the visually impaired. It is also directed that no commercial activity of any kind shall be permitted on the footpath as well,” it had noted.
 
 HC is hearing a matter where it took suo moto cognisance of a letter written by senior advocate   seeking its intervention to stop illegal parking and commercial activities outside the Blind Relief Association on Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg. It had turned the letter into a public interest litigation.
 
 
