CHENNAI: An under-construction storm water drain project beneath the MIT flyover in   has created problemsfor shop owners andhas brought to light the apparent lack of coordination between the state highways and the electricity department.

 
 As part of the ?10 crore storm water drain project in the   neighbourhood in Chromepet, the designatedcontractor is nowexecuting work along a 300m stretch of the service road. S  , who manages a hotel on the road, said the contractor on Thursday dug a trench without removing an electric pillar box. “Workers just tore open the road. The pillar box now hangs in the balance,” he said.
 
 What this means is that shop owners are forced to pry out underground cables and hang them in forn of their establishments to prevent them from being damaged by the contractor. Renganathan said hiscomplaintstobothhighways and   had fallen on deaf ears.
 
 Yogaraj, the on-site contract supervisor, said there were lots of power cables running by. “Besides, the electric box is on highways property. TNEB should have assisted us from the start. We have made several requests andthey have now agreed to shift the box,” he said.
 
 This is not the first instance of the project encountering trouble with cables. In March, a TOI report said the highways department opted to build the drain around a transformer as it could not convince TNEB to shift it.
 
 A TNEB official said it was a ‘simple matter” of raising a request. “All they need to do is raise a request. The assistant engineer will draw up an estimate. After the amount is deposited, a work order can be issued and the equipment shifted.”
 
 Sources said the highways department was unwilling to bear the cost of shifting the equipment and was placing theonuson residents andshop owners. “This type of (coordination) problem between the two departments is nothing new. Streetlights on MIT flyover haven’t been burning for thelastthreedays.Neither the highways nor the TNEB has taken responsibility,” said Chitlapakkam resident P Viswanathan.
 
 Highways officials could not be reached for comment.
 
 
