NEW DELHI: A teacher along with two employees of the   in  , Himachal Pradesh, were arrested on Saturday by the special investigation team of the Delhi police for allegedly leaking the   Class XII economics paper on March 23, three days before the board examination. The total number of arrests in the Class XII economics paper leak have gone up to six as three teachers from Bawana in Delhi were arrested last week.

 Rakesh  , the commerce and economics teacher who had been appointed by the CBSE as an exam coordinator, was found to have circulated handwritten copies of the question paper among his tuition students and a relative. He took the help of clerk   and peon Ashok to access the question paper to give to his tuition students and a woman relative in Chandigarh whose son was appearing for the same examination.
 
 In a bid to cover his digital tracks, Kumar had sent a handwritten copy of the paper to his Chandigarh relative. The leaked paper was then disseminated from Chandigarh and eventually circulated in at least 40 WhatsApp groups.
 
 Special commissioner (crime) R P Upadhyay confirmed the arrests and said the three accused were produced in a court and taken on remand for two days of questioning. More arrests are likely with at least a dozen people being interrogated. The role of other teachers in the school is also being probed. A case of criminal breach of trust (Section 406 of IPC), cheating (420) and criminal conspiracy (120B) has been registered against the three men.
 
 Principals of some schools in Haryana, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh are under scanner for the CBSE paper leak.
 
 The commerce and economics teacher had been made in-charge of overseeing the exams for three other schools at a centre in Una. “Since Kumar had earlier worked as a coordinator with the CBSE, his principal again recommended his name for this task in February. He was given access to the bank vault where the paper was stored,” said  , joint commissioner (crime).
 
 The plot unravelled when cops identified a Delhi student who had forwarded the handwritten question paper in a WhatsApp group. His parents are related to the Chandigarh woman. Though Kumar claimed he wanted to help his weaker students pass the exam, sharing the paper on social media showed intent to reach others too.
 
 At least 40 students got access to the paper. The police are investigating whether the trio got money for leaking the paper, and have seized their mobile phones and sent them for forensic analysis.
 
 The cops are now trying to identify the whistleblower who couriered handwritten copies of the same question paper to the CBSE office along with the names of four WhatsApp groups on which it was circulated.
 
 “Tracking the WhatsApp group chain where people were communicating individually as well as on the group was the biggest challenge for us,” disclosed Upadhyay. Kumar told his interrogators that on March 23, he went to the Union Bank of India where the paper was stored and sought permission from the manager to collect the computer science exam papers. He had asked Sharma and Ashok to accompany him to help him carry the papers.
 
 While retrieving the computer science question paper, Kumar slipped out a bundle containing the economics question paper and asked Sharma and Ashok to return to the school with the economics paper while he headed for the exam centre at the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, 14 km from the school.
 
 He called Sharma and asked him to take out the economics paper, a sheet at time, through a slit on the envelope containing the question paper and to photograph the sheets. He later called a girl student and asked her to write down the questions as he dictated them. He then photographed the handwritten sheets and fowarded them to his relative in Chandigarh. He also made the girl solve the question paper in his presence.
 
 Police officers said Kumar cleverly avoided using the photographs of the original paper because they would show the unique code number of the exam centre for which the paper was destined, thus identifying the source of the leak. “Having worked as an exam coordinator earlier, Kumar was aware of the CBSE’s processes,” said a police officer.
 
 
