MADURAI: It is holiday season and many tourists have taken accommodation in the heart of the city, near Sri   Sundareswarar temple. But the two main roads where most lodges and hotels are located -— West Perumal Maistry Street and West Marret Street— are severely damaged. Adding to the woes is the prevalent garbage menace. 

 
 Many older high-end hotels in the city are located on West Perumal Maistry Street. People prefer taking accommodation there to get a feel of the city and also due to its close proximity to Meenakshi temple, which is within walkable distance. This year however due to the bad condition of the roads, tourists are seeking hoteliers’ suggestion for a better place, where accessibility would not be a problem. Tourists say that autorickshaws refuse to enter the road due to its condition.
 
 S Mohamed of West Perumal Maistry Street says that he cannot remember the last time the road was laid. “It was not bad until the corporation dug the road for underground drainage work. Now the road is uneven and piled with mud, which makes the situation worse as the road becomes slippery and slushy,” he said.
 
 Garbage is another major problem here. Though the corporation has placed sign boards asking public not to litter the street and also placed garbage bins, for the purpose, some shopkeepers still continue to dump garbage on the roadside. “It is embarrassing when the tourists stand in front of the garbage and take photographs. This should be the way our city gets promoted in tourist websites, hence the authorities must repair the roads,” he said.
 
  is the place where the fourth zone office of the   is located, but just a few hundred feet from the office are four overflowing garbage bins. Both these streets join the   which is being revamped for the heritage walk project. “If people even divert a little from the heritage walk lane they will see these severely damaged roads,” said  , a retired professor, who finds it difficult to walk on this road. He was on his way to receive a friend who was staying at one of the hotels here.
 
 Shopkeepers say that until the corporation takes up relaying of these roads, patchwork should be done, as it was impacting tourism. Madurai corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar said that the work would be taken up under the special roads scheme smart city. 
 
