When   walks into a bout it is tough for his rivals not to feel the heat. Such is the mastery of our own pehelwan that none of his rivals at the   here could survive his aggression for more than a few minutes. The climax came in the final when he demolished South Africa’s Johannes Botha in 80 seconds flat to score a win by technical superiority with the score reading 10-0 in the men’s freestyle 74kg bout here on Thursday.

 
 “When I’m fit I try to fight like this. But if I’m not then I don’t fight. Each and every medal, whether it is from a big meet or small one, is something to cherish for the rest of your life. I felt so happy when the whole stadium roared to support me,” said Sushil, who took a lap of honour to acknowledge the tremendous support of his fans at the Carrara Sports Arena. This was Sushil’s third straight Commonwealth Games gold.
 
 It was a top class act as Sushil fought the tall Botha, a four-time medallist in Africa, and sorted him out in a few seconds. It was the South African who made the first move, trying to push Sushil on the backfoot but the London Olympics silver medallist countered it with a flurry of attacks as he went after his rival’s neck, waist and then toe. Botha didn’t know what hit him and soon he was trailing 0-6. Another two more attacks in the next 20 seconds and it was all over.
 
 “I did my best but the result is due to team work. We fight from the front but there is a big support team behind us who help us prepare for the fight. I had an injury and that’s why I couldn’t compete in earlier competitions. But now because of all my well wishers, I’m back to my best now,” Sushil said.
 
 Asked about missing out a third straight Olympics in Rio, the Delhi wrestler said: “I don’t hold on to old things. The medal I have won today will not happen tomorrow. That was a phase, this is also a phase,” Sushil said after evading the media for a good two hours.
 
 “It’s all part of life. It’s nice that people expect so much from me,” he added when asked about the turbulent build-up to the Games starting with the infamous trials in Delhi, where his supporters came to blows with those of his rival Parveen Rana.
 
 
 
 Earlier, in the men’s freestyle 57kg, Rahul Aware got his dream gold as he tamed Steven Takahashi of Canada in the gold medal clash. He thus emulated his guru Harishchandra Birajdar, who had won a Commonwealth Games gold in 1970 Games held in Edinburgh, Scotland.
 
 The wrestler from Patoda, Maharashtra was trailing 2-4 when he decided enough was enough. He soon changed gears as Takahashi wilted under a wave of attacks that kept him pinned to the mat. At the end of the first period, it was 6-6 but Aware soon stretched the lead to 15-6. He then conceded a point but the gold was already decided at 15-7 on points.
 
 “I was waiting for this medal for 10 years and today I won it thanks to my guru and my parents. I had watched his videos but still I made a mistake and went behind. But I fought hard and as the match wore on he was struggling with his stamina. It is proud moment for me as I emulated my guru. I’ll never be like him but at least in a small way I could match him.
 
 “I was in the mix to make the team in 2010 and again in 2014 but I missed out as the team was selected without conducting any trials. From 2010 to 2018 I was training for this moment. As you would have seen in ‘Bhaag Milkha Bhaag’ the training is very difficult,” said Aware, who is a farmer’s son.
 
 
 
 In the women’s freestyle 53kg Nordic System match,   emerged second best to Canada’s Diana Weicker. She began slowly and conceded a penalty point for passivity.
 
 In 76kg class, Kiran took the bronze beating Katouskia Pariadhaven of Mauritius.
 
 
 
 Babita was disappointed with the attitude of Indian Olympic Association (IOA) officials and alleged that she didn’t even get a ticket from the players’ quota to give to his father - Mahavir Singh - whose story inspired the movie ‘Dangal’.
 
 “Each player is eligible for two tickets but I didn’t even get that. My dad was waiting outside. I tried so much but couldn’t help. He could not watch it on TV and nor he could come in. Finally, I went to the Australian team to get a ticket and got him in,” Babita said. “I was waiting till 10 pm yesterday for the tickets. And because of that I couldn’t sleep well, even though I had a bout in the morning. I am really upset,” she added.
 
