NEW DELHI: The AAP government informed the   this week that it has directed all hospitals run by it or autonomous bodies to install   for the safety of its staff and patients.

 A submission to this effect was made on a plea by a former nurse who alleged she was stalked by a patient at the hospital where she worked and it would not have happened if CCTV cameras had been installed.
 
 A bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar was told by the government that its director general health services has asked its hospitals to repair all non-functional CCTV cameras and also install new ones.
 
 The government added that a total of 2,613 CCTV cameras have been installed in over 30  , of which 2,372 were functional. “A total of 2,207   guards have been deployed at government hospitals, including women guards. Separate counters exist for women at registration and pharmacies. Further, separate wards exist for women patients at each of the hospitals. Sexual harassment committees have been constituted in each of the hospitals,” the government said.
 
 HC was hearing a PIL seeking directions for the   of CCTV cameras and deputing of security guards at all government hospitals.
 
 The petitioner said that an FIR was registered against the accused but she still filed the petition so that the authorities were directed to take steps to provide security to women staff working at government hospitals, dispensaries and other health institutions, organisations and mohalla clinics. Court had earlier issued a notice to the government.
 
 In its reply, the government said that the director general of health services had ordered all directors, medical superintendents and principals of hospitals, including those run by autonomous bodies, to ensure security of its staff and patients, particularly women. 
 
 The plea stated that it is the “responsibility of municipal body, police and the hospital to comply with the Vishaka guidelines for the formation of committee to investigate cases of sexual harassment against women at workplace and provide security to the petitioner.”
 
 
