CHENNAI: The commissioner of metro rail safety (CMRS) on Friday morning started a final round of inspections required for the official opening of underground metro stations below Anna Salai. 

 The CMRS and his team conducted checks on the 4.5km line from   to AG-DMS. They will on Saturday inspect metro trains and the stretch from AG-DMS to Little Mount.
 
 Commissioner K A Manohar began the exercise by visiting the ramp that links the elevated station at Little Mount with the underground station at Saidapet before heading to the stations to check safety facilities for passengers.
 
 Metro rail officials demonstrated a fire hydrant installed in the ramp area. Sump and pumps installed were also inspected.
 
 "Trains will be operated at a maximum speed of 80kmph on Saturday when the line from AG-DMS is inspected," an official said.
 
 Once the line is thrown open to the public, a part of Anna Salai will link stations up to the airport via the elevated transit hub at Alandur. Commuters who board trains at   will be able to travel to points along the underground Anna Salai line by switching corridors at Alandur.
 
 Earlier this week, the commissioner completed inspection from Shenoy Nagar to  . He said the authorisation to open the line would be given in a week's time.
 
 On Friday, electrical systems to operate trains and stations were also inspected. The safety team checked operational readiness of the stations.
 
 The team then visited Saidapet, Nandanam, Teynampet and AG-DMS stations to inspect facilities installed for passenger safety like emergency telephone, public announcement system and information displays, lifts and escalators. These electronic systems were also demonstrated.
 
 Other critical systems required for the functioning of the station and the trains, including signalling systems and room at stations, tunnel ventilation systems and air-conditioning, were also inspected.
 
 While the line between AG-DMS and Little Mount will be opened once metro rail gets a nod from the safety commissioner, the rest of the stretch linking Anna Salai from AG-DMS up to Central Metro is expected to be ready by the end of this year.
 
 
