KOLKATA: Before the 2011 assembly election, which marked the end of the Left Front government’s 34-year reign, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, Nirupam Sen and Asim   were the number one-two three in the Bengal cabinet. On Thursday, Bhattacharjee and Dasgupta bowed out of the CPM State Committee and joined Sen as permanent invitees there, which meant all three would now be advisory members — without voting rights — in the panel that once used to decide Bengal’s fate.

 Thursday marked the end of an era for the CPM as politburo member  , at 77, ended up being the only survivor from the   generation of leaders that used to shepherd the party when it was known as “the Party” — with a capital P — in Bengal.
 
 Former CM Bhattacharjee, who suffers from acute respiratory problems and is mostly homebound now, has been pleading with party colleagues for some time to spare him from the central and state committees. But party leaders, including CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury, insisted that he stay back at least as an invitee, which meant Bhattacharjee’s presence — like that of Sen and Dasgupta — would now be largely “inspirational and strategic” if not “ornamental”.
 
 The winds of change in the party, which gave the the world its longest-serving democratically elected communist government, did not leave the state secretariat untouched either. Two key organisers and central committee members, Shyamal Chakrabarty and Madan Ghosh, opted out of the new state committee announced at the end of the party’s state conference in Kolkata. Another state secretariat member, Dipak Sarkar, former minister Kanti Ganguly, former MP Basudeb Acharia, all handed the baton to younger colleagues, remaining in advisory capacity on the panel that they once used to dominate.
 
 The baton now passes on to Md Salim, Sujan Chakrabarty, Gautam Deb, who will work under CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta   and LF chairman Biman Bose. The new state committee has brought in some fresh blood though female representation in the 80-member panel remains only 10. State Citu president Subhas Mukherjee, 60, is possibly the oldest among the inclusions in the new state committee.
 
 The change in the state committee, however, will not make any difference to the Bengal CPM delegation to the party congress in April because most of the party veterans are central committee members.
 
 As many as 175 delegates were elected for the congress — the numerical strength being the same as Kerala’s — probably to give equal voice to the divergent views in the party vis-a-vis its equation with the Congress. Views differ within the Bengal CPM itself about an understanding with the Congress in the fight against the   so much so that CPM state secretary Mishra did not even conclude the discussion over the combined Left-Congress’s electoral experience in the 2016 assembly polls; he chose to leave this part of the state political-organisational report for discussion in the new state committee after the party congress.
 
