MELBOURNE: Tennis legend   came out strongly against  's views on LGBT issues and same-sex marriage, calling for the facility named after the Aussie great - one of the premier venues at   - to be renamed. The 74-year-old King said she would have refused to appear on the court named after her former opponent, winner of 24 Grand Slams, the most by any player, if she was playing today. Court, a Pentecostal Christian Minister in Perth, was critical of the LGBT community. Players, however, sought to steer clear of the controversy that is hogging the major, set to start on Monday.

 US Open champion Sloane Stephens along with most of the women - world No.1 Simona Halep and No.2 Seed   and Wimbledon champion   - said they would play on any court they're scheduled to play on.
 
 Stephens, however, said there shouldn't be hate directed towards fellow players. "I respect all of my fellow players, their lifestyles. I don't think there should be hate towards anyone," she said. "I love all of my girls, everyone that I play with on a day-to-day basis. I support whatever it is they want to do and how they want to live."
 
 Muguruza said King's comments, which lent a new spin to the first Grand Slam of the year, hadn't been discussed in the locker-room. The ninth-seeded Briton Johanna Konta said she doesn't agree with Margret Court's comments. "However, she's entitled to her own opinion. In terms of playing, if I'm scheduled to play on Margaret Court, I will go out there and compete," Konta said.
 
 On whether the Melbourne Park Arena should be renamed as King suggested, Konta said the decision wasn't hers to make. "It's unfortunate that this whole thing has even occurred because it overshadows why her name is on the court," Konta said. "It's not because of her beliefs, it's because of her achievements in the sport. It's unfortunate it's kind of meshed together when they're actually quite separate."
 
 Men's No.1   said: "I don't have the whole information. I am here to play tennis. I'm not here for things that really doesn't have a big impact on the game. I love the Margaret Court Arena. If the Australian Open decides to hold the name or decides to change the name, is not my decision. I am really just here to play in the Australian Open."
 
