MUMBAI: After Vidarbha’s maiden   triumph on Monday, a   official had commended the   Cricket Association (VCA) for using the money at their disposal to invest in grassroots cricket eight years back. In 2009, the VCA had launched a residential cricket academy in Nagpur, which saw many trainees from the interiors and faraway areas turn into Ranji-level cricketers under the watchful eyes of former India seamers Prashant Vaidya and Subroto Banerjee.

 Former India skipper and chief selector   feels it’s time that the BCCI gives more annual grant to associations whose teams do well in the Ranji Trophy than to those whose sides still merely make up the numbers in domestic cricket. “There are some teams which have been languishing for years in the lower rankings of the Ranji Trophy. And it seems that there’s hardly any infrastructure, or any programme for these teams to do well at the state level. So why should they get the same amount as the other associations? We must reward teams which are doing well in the Ranji,” Vengsarkar told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Vengsarkar concurs with former India opener Wasim Jaffer’s suggestion that the Board must reintroduce the Elite and Plate group system in the Ranji Trophy to provide an incentive for teams to do well (to get promoted to the elite league) and demote those who fare badly, by relegating them to the plate division.
 
 “I 100 percent agree with what Jaffer has said. There is a tendency with teams who are not doing well to not try hard enough, because there’s no incentive, or nothing to look forward to for them. To stop this kind of attitude amongst these teams, the BCCI would do well to give more money to state associations who teams make it to the knockout stages of the Ranji Trophy. There will then be an incentive for the teams to stay in the Elite league and win tournaments, like Vidarbha did,” said Vengsarkar.
 
 “I’m glad for Vidarbha. They had the players who believed in themselves. Vidarbha’s win is very good for Indian cricket because a lot of players are emerging from smaller cities like Nagpur. It’s a good change in Indian cricket, and a sign that the game has spread far and wide in India and everyone is doing well,” the 61-year-old added.
 
