Tiger Shroff’s action stunts and dance sequences have been the highlight of all the four films that he has done so far, and he says he would be happy to continue doing this as that is what keeps his young fans happy. Tiger shares that as a kid, he always wanted to watch content packed with action on screen, and now, when he chooses his scripts, he keeps that in mind. “The kind of work that I am doing right now is something I have been wanting to do all my life. I somehow understand what attracts kids, and when I am reading scripts that is always there in my mind. Even when I am not doing films, I keep posting these action videos on my social media, but I also always put a disclaimer and urge kids that these stunts that they see me doing on screen should not be tried by them, and that safety and supervision are important,” says Tiger.

 
  
  
 
 
 The actor, who was in Delhi recently to promote  , adds that the kind of work that he has chosen for himself has also helped him create a niche and an identity that is different from other ‘action heroes’ in Bollywood. He says, “I don’t think you can compare me to anyone in the industry at the moment, especially in the space I am in right now. There is a healthy competition in the industry, and within that, I worked hard on my body and skills to create my own identity. I am only four films old, and I think that ever since I have done my first film, nobody has called me just ‘Jackie Shroff ka beta’.”
 
  
    
 
 “I have proved it to people that I am a self-made guy and it is through my hard work and passion that I have created a niche for myself. It is not that I am going to limit myself to what I am doing. I am already doing a sequel to   (SOTY) and will again work to look completely different in that film,” says the actor, who last appeared in  .
 Talking about how he has worked on his looks in different films, Tiger says that for Baaghi 2, he underwent different forms of combat-training to play the role of an army officer in the film. “I am playing an army officer and we show that for a very brief period in the film. Playing an army officer is quite a responsibility and I can’t even do one-fourth of the job the jawans do in real life. So it is a small tribute from my end. I underwent a lot of combat-training. It required a lot of physical preparation to muscle up for the role and look a little more mature and stern. I learnt a lot about how their uniforms are to be worn and their rankings. There is a certain way they do the march past. It looks easy to all of us, but it is very difficult,” says Tiger and adds that his training and discipline of working out did help him in preparing for his role in Baaghi 2. “Fitness is a way of life for me. I have been working on it always. Even now, it is only on Sundays that I eat what I want to, on other six days, I am working hard in the gym. I always tell people that going to the gym is not everything, you are what you eat,” adds Tiger.
 
  
  Tiger in a still from Baaghi 2
 
 If there’s anything apart from work that keeps Tiger busy, it’s dancing. And it is for his love for dance that the actor has decided to come up with his own dancing school. He tells us, “It is because of my young fans that I have planned to come up with my dancing school. Their parents keep coming to me to ask from where I have learned dancing and I have no answer. I was taught by a teacher, but mostly, I have learned dancing by watching videos. I am a virtual learner and that is one of my talents.” 
 He adds, “Apart from dancing and acting, there isn’t anything else I like to do. I hate going to parties. You have to be very polite, diplomatic, put on a fake smile, get clicked and escape quietly. When people ask me if I was at a party, I just show them the picture as proof!”
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
