HYDERABAD: Sharpshooter   and his team shot dead 50 wild boars at   in  . The operation started on Saturday night and continued till Sunday. Telangana forest department issued orders permitting Khan “to cull the wild boars, which are allegedly damaging tender grass and greenery at Air Force Academy and posing a danger to the safety of trainees and aircraft”.

 
 Sangareddy District Forest Officer V Venkateswara Rao, who issued orders to cull the wild boars, told TOI, “Air Force Academy authorities submitted a representation on April 11 stating that the wild boars are attacking the trainees in the camp and also coming onto the runway posing danger to jet planes. The campus is spread over 1,500 acres and has a thick forest. I have permitted the licensed shooters to carry out culling. We haven’t tried the methods of capturing the wild boar like in Shamshabad international airport.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Sangareddy District Forest Officer V Venkateswara Rao said the topography of Shamshabad international airport is different from Dundigal academy, which has dense forest. The population of wild boars is beyond control at the Academy, which produced evidence about dangers posed to the trainees.
 
 The DFO order stated: “Permission is accorded to Nawab Shafath Ali Khan for culling of the wild boars, which are noticed in the airfield area and are a potential flight  . The rapid increase of wild boars in airfield is an area of concern as it might lead to aircraft accident and damaging tender grass and greenery of the air force academy.”
 
 The DFO put conditions like wild boars, which are habitually damaging crops and those which cannot be driven back to the forests by other methods, should be culled. The license shooters will be held responsible if any untoward incident happens. The culling permission was given till April 30.
 
 Nawab Shafath Ali Khan told 
 , “We counted 311wild boars in five hours on Saturday within the walls of Air force academy. As there is no predator, their numbers have increased. We identified 50 large wild boars that are a potential danger to the aircraft and eliminated them. My team consists of professional trackers and spotlight operating men. During the culling, apart from Air Force Academy officers, two forest guards of Sangareddy forest division accompanied us. It was a highly successful operation that started at 11pm on Saturday and continued until 3am on Sunday. Later, we dug a pit and buried the carcass under cover of Panchanama and in presence of forest officials. I used .3006 telescopic rifle. I took a head shot to hit the brain as it has least suffering to the animal and causes instant death.”
 
 “The academy has been facing the problem for the past three years. Wild boars are nocturnal animals and pose danger to aircraft operating at nights. I avoided shooting families and young ones and targeted only alpha males,” he added.
 
 When contacted Air Force Academy officials refused to comment.
 
 
 
