KOCHI: Rain gods were merciful on the state last year. Many districts received a fair amount of summer rains in 2017 and in March, 2018. Met department officials said the summer rains in the month of March this year have been in excess.

 
  
  
 
 It has helped contain the mercury levels from shooting up. “Except in North Kerala, the summer rains have been good with many places getting as much as 1 cm of rain. That’s a good quantity to conserve,” said IMD regional director S Sudevan.
 
 Experts say that there is a need for a scientific study to understand the submarine groundwater discharge which indicates the inflow of fresh and brackish groundwater from land into the sea. This has not been quantified, said E Shaji, department of geology,  .
 
 “The percentage of water being discharged from the aquifers in Kerala is around 47%. That means there is almost 53% of groundwater in them. Yet, if one were to look at the scarcity in many places, it indicates that there must be a leakage,” he said.
 
 “We have become a water-stressed state and it is time that serious conservation initiatives are put in place,” he added.
 
 One of the most successful initiatives of largescale water conservation is the   project undertaken in   district by the district administration with help from the  .
 
 “Earlier this month we started the third phase of Ente Kulam project which aims at the revival and preservation of 100 ponds within three months. This year, till now, 17 ponds have been revived, said district collector K Mohammed Y Safirullah.
 
 Haritha Keralam officials said groundwater levels have gone up in areas were ponds were revived. In 2016, around 51 ponds were cleaned and in 2017, a total of 151 ponds were cleaned.
 
 In Idukki, which was declared drought-hit, small panchayats are taking steps to address the water scarcity. The Karunapuram panchayat in Idukki has begun a pilot project to ensure water availability by launching a bore well recharging project. "We plan to recharge over 500 bore wells at the earliest," said Sivaprasad Thannippara, president, Karunapuram panchayat.
 
 In Malappuram, a comprehensive plan to develop and protect all water bodies named ‘Jalasamridhi’ is being implemented with the support of   and Management (CWRDM).
 
 
 
 
