THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A visitor to the city zoo, who triggered panic after he scaled a stand-off barrier and jumped into an open lion enclosure, was safely rescued by zoo authorities on Wednesday.

 A two-and-a-half years old lioness named   was roaming around near the moat. The guard on duty alerted the zoo keepers who scrambled to the enclosure and dragged the man out of the enclosure.
 
  
  
 
 The man was later identified as  ,35, a resident of Palappuram, Ottapalam. He had been missing since Sunday and authorities had issued a look-out notice to trace him.
 
 The incident happened around 11.10am when the guard on duty V   noticed a man dressed in blue shirt and dhoti moving precariously close to the barrier. The guard sensed the danger but before he could stop him Murugan climbed the barrier and jumped, landing 15-feet down in the enclosure. He crawled on his knees and moved towards the lioness. Panic-stricken people started shouting at Murugan, asking him to turn back.
 
 As soon as the guard alerted them, as many as 10 zoo keepers rushed to the spot and entered the enclosure. “We kept telling him to come back even as we ran towards him. He wouldn’t turn back and kept muttering that the animal would not hurt him. We had to forcefully drag him back to safety,” said C  , zoo supervisor. The fire force and police were also alerted. Murugan was later taken to the General Hospital.
 
 The zoo authorities had increased the height of the standoff barrier following a freak accident in Delhi zoo where a youth was mauled to death by a white tiger in 2014 after he fell into its enclosure. “We were able to avert a fatal incident because of the timely intervention of our staff,” said T V  , zoo superintendent.
 
 “We were in touch with cyber police who told us that he had reached Thiruvananthapuram. We were in commissioner’s office when news began to spread about a man jumping into the animal enclosure,” said Narayanan, Murugan’s brother.   said Murugan had been mentally disturbed for the past five years.
 
