College students today not only focus on academics, but also dedicate time to their fitness and well-being. And there’s nothing like it when your college is equipped with a gym. But having a gym is only half the story; how well equipped it is matters more at the end of the day. While some city colleges have maintained their gyms, most fail to do so. We visited a few college gyms around town to ascertain their condition and here’s what we found...

 
 
 Area of the gym: 1,500 sq ft
 Speciality: The students can access it at a nominal cost. They only have to pay `10 monthly for maintenance.
 Daily student footfall: 30-40
 Professional trainers: 1
 About the gym: Popularly known as the  , it was founded around 80 years ago. It is said, Shyama Prasad Mukherjee was very particular about his health and thus he opened this gym in the college. However, the gym is accessible only to the boys of the college.
 Student speaks: ‘Going to the gym has become an addiction. I feel that I won’t be able to sleep at night if I miss a session. I find this gym really well-equipped. I have been to gyms outside the college too, but this is really affordable for students,” said Sayan Bhowmik, a second-year BSc student.
 
 
 
 Area of the gym: 600 sq ft
 Speciality: The trainers make sure that the students follow a proper diet along with exercising.
 Daily student footfall: 25
 Professional trainers: 2
 About the gym: While it has been just one year since the gym has opened, the response it has received is immense. One of the faculty members, Samir Roy, took the initiative in February 2017 to set up the gym. For the first three days of the week, it’s open for boys and for the next three days, it’s for girls.
 Student speaks: ‘It’s been a month since I joined the gym. Though the result is not visible yet, I can feel the change in myself. Our instructor, Soumendranath Mullick, also takes care of our diet. He keeps encouraging healthy food habits,’ said Soumyadeep Das, a first-year student of political science.
 
 
 
 Area of the gym: 200 sq ft
 Speciality: This gym does not have any automated machines. Every machine is operated manually. The faculty members in charge of the gym believe that manually operated machines have more impact on body building than the automated ones.
 Daily student footfall: 30
 Professional trainers: None
 About the gym: Ashim Dawn, director of sports, took the initiative back in 2014 to set up the gym. Later, another faculty member, Junith Sengupta, joined him, and now both these individuals train the students.
 Student speaks: ‘Being the sports captain of IEM, I go to the gym regularly. Though there are all kinds of equipment, there are no professional instructors. But the faculty members try their best to supervise us. So, we don’t feel the need of an instructor,’ said Piyush Dhar Shah, a final-year student of electronic communication.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Area of the gym: 128 sq ft
 Speciality: Unlike other college gyms where there are different time slots for boys and girls, because there is only one gym, St Xavier’s has two separate gyms for boys and girls.
 Daily student footfall: 30
 Professional trainers: None
 About the gym: The gym is not on the main 
 campus of the college. It is on the hostel campus, situated on AJC Bose Road. Popularly known as Arnold’s gym, it was set up by Fr Peter in 2014.
 Student speaks: ‘Though officially there are no trainers in this gym, there are a few students and teachers staying in the hostel who are well-trained. They help us out. So, we don’t feel the need for a professional trainer. Also, the fees for gyms outside are too high for a student. The timing of this gym is flexible too,’ said Daniel Dane Lalruatzela, a second-year student of political science.
 
 
 
 Area of the gym: 2,000 sq ft
 Speciality: For weightlifting exercises, apart from dumbbells, they also have age-old clubs, popularly known as mugurs.
 Daily student footfall: 70
 Professional trainers: 2
 About the gym: The gym of this renowned university is 60 years old. It is accessible to both boys and girls. The morning slot is dedicated to the girls, where they have a female instructor, and the evening slot is for the boys.
 Student speaks: ‘I have been coming to this gym for the past eight months. Gymming not only keeps the body fit, but also helps maintain our mental health. Our instructor gives special attention to every individual who comes here. This gym is perfect for body-building purposes,’ said Md Sahil, a first-year student of computer science engineering.
 
  
  
 
 
 Area of the gym: NA
 Speciality: Earlier, all sorts of gym equipment were present. But now, they are either broken or lying unused due to a lack of maintenance.
 Daily student footfall: Nil
 Professional trainers: None
 About the gym: The gym has been turned into a store room now. The students demanded a gym back in 2010 and the authority procured some equipment. But later, it was shifted to the hostel. All the equipment now lie dumped in the girls’ common room.
 Student speaks: ‘The gym is totally dysfunctional. It has been shifted to girls’ common room, so it’s not accessible to all. There were never any trainers and I feel that was one of the factors that led to this situation. Without a trainer, students don’t get the motivation to come regularly,’ said Subhabrata Ganguly, a Master’s student of economics.
 
 — PUSHPITA DEY
 
 
 
 
