LUCKNOW: The much-awaited Padmaavat was released amid fear and threats of vandalism in UP on Thursday. However, fans were left disappointed in many cities as the single screen and multiplexes refused to screen the film fearing attack from the   members.

 In Varanasi, police foiled the self-immolation bid by a youth associated with   in protest against Padmaavat. Police arrested four protesters, including two women. Meanwhile, Varanasi administration claimed that the movie was screened peacefully in the city. Police force and magistrates have been deployed at all cinema halls.
 
 
 In Allahabad, none of the 10 theatres screened Padmaavat on Thursday. Although, a multiplex had had two special shows of the movie on Wednesday night and was supposed to run four shows from Thursday, viewers had to return empty-handed as the owners decided against screening the film. Likewise, the screening was cancelled at two of the single cinema halls which were scheduled to do so from Thursday. Two of the cinema halls of the city, a multiplex in   and another single cinema hall at  , had decided to run a special show of the film on Wednesday night. Sensing trouble, the single cinema hall cancelled the screening but the multiplex screened two shows of the film which went without any untoward incident. However, on Thursday, the multiplex decided against screening the film. “The owner of the mall was apprehensive of trouble and damage to the property in the mall because of which the movie is not being shown,” said Civil Lines mall manager  .
 
 In Agra, bouncers were hired by a top multiplexes for the smooth screening of Padmaavat. The bouncers ushered moviegoers in and out of the theatre even as   and   men protested outside. For each show, 20 tickets were given out to bouncers who sat among the audience, deterring them from any mischief. Apart from privately-hired bouncers, heavy police force was also deployed at the theatre.
 
 In Kanpur too, multiplexes did not screen the movie. However, security remained in place at the multiplexes which had earlier decided to screen the movie. Cine goers who reached the halls had to return disappointed. Others who tried booking ticket through booking app found it accepting bookings only for January 28 and beyond.
 
