CHANDIGARH: The special investigation team (SIT), probing the leakage of question paper of examination for the recruitment of judicial officers in the   (HCS), claimed to have identified some more persons involved in the alleged scam.

 These are in addition to the two key accused — Balwinder Sharma, former registrar (recruitment) of the Punjab and Haryana high court and Sunita, whom Sharma had allegedly supplied the question paper. Both have been arrested and challan has been presented against them before trial court.
 
 During the hearing of the case on Tuesday before a full bench comprising Justice  , Justice   and  , counsel for   senior advocate R S Rai said that there are some more “conspirators” in the paper leak case.
 
 “SIT is in process of identifying them but at this stage we are not sure about them and do not want to share any details in this regard now. Even role of Sushila, whose name had surfaced earlier, is also being probed,” Rai told the bench.
 
 He also said that investigation against Sharma and Sunita has already been completed and challan has been presented against them on January 5.
 
 After hearing the counsel for Chandigarh Police, the full bench adjourned the case asking the SIT to file a status report of further probe in a sealed cover by January 19. The bench, however, asked the members of the SIT not to interact or make any statement to media on the issue.
 
 The entire scam was unearthed after Suman, a resident of Pinjore in Panchkula district, had filed a petition in August last year before HC seeking registration of a criminal case into leakage of the examination of prestigious services.
 
 She had produced an audio recording of some candidates claiming that most of the seats for selection of the HCS (judicial) have already been sold for Rs 1.5 crore and selection of candidates has already been finalized. She had specifically named two woman candidates Sunita and Sushila of being involving in the scam.
 
 Later, the court had found that both Sunita (general category) and Sushila (reserved category) had topped the examination in their respective categories with exceptionally high marks.
 
 An internal probe conducted by the HC also found then registrar (recruitment) Balwinder Sharma responsible for leakage of paper to Sunita. The probe committee had then recommended for registration of FIR in the case.
 
 
