They are bold, they are outspoken and they are valued for their contribution to society. Yet successful   in the state are often subjected to ridicule, criticism and unpalatable innuendoes on   — less for their words and decisions as politicians, and more for their colour, appearance and identity. It grows uglier when   drag their families into the bashing. Being a woman politician is tough, but being a woman politician on social media is tougher.

 After former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, the state boasts of leaders like defence minister  , state BJP president Tamilisai Soundarajan, DMK leader   and actor-politician  . But, barring Sitharaman, the rest have been frequently trolled. A few trolls are candid and funny, but many cross the line between civility and indecency. Soundarajan for instance, has been trolled by cyber bullies for her "curly hair and dark skin". In a veiled attack at Kanimozhi on Wednesday, BJP national secretary H Raja, called her an "illegitimate child" of DMK chief M Karunanidhi.
 
 On the contrary, male leaders are not judged for their statements or dressing sense, say social media analysts.
 
 Kanimozhi, who is often trolled for her association with the 2G spectrum case, says she is unscathed by these attacks. "Being in active public life calls for a lot of patience. Whatever is being said (about you) should be taken with a pinch of salt," she says. "I actively voice my opinion on social media platforms. Just because I get trolled, I won’t stop voicing my opinion. Trolls are cowards, they can’t face people in reality, that’s why they take this route to put people down. We need stronger laws," she adds. 
 
 She says that women who are in public life are easy targets, and the only way to handle trolls is to ignore them. "If we develop a care-a-damn attitude, we can handle any situation."
 
 Khushbu, who is bullied in the cyber space almost every day, says she has developed a thick skin to counter them. "Most trolls are paid ones. Laws aren’t enough to tackle the menace. On an average I tweet at least ten times on issues plaguing our country, but the attacks get personal. They talk about my kids, my family and my profession. I consider these occupational hazards. But I give it back. My replies make them cringe and these trolls run for their lives," Khushbu says.
 
 Maintaining dignity during adversity is the key, says senior journalist Sudhangan. He feels women politicians in   have not got their due yet. "They get bullied, because they are either celebrities or have a powerful background. Their elite tag makes them easy targets for trolls, which is pathetic and misogynist," he says. 
 
 When trolls attack her with derogatory comments on her hairstyle, complexion and attire, Tamilisai Soundarajan says she prefers laughing at the bullies. "No woman has gone through what I have faced. I have been called a ‘karakattakari’ by a senior Congress leader. When we have senior fellow politicians stooping this low, what can you expect from paid trolls? The funny part is I am beginning to enjoy them. They lift my mood and in no way hurt my feelings. I am strong enough to fight these faceless cowards," she says.
 
 Even though she has developed a thick skin to such taunts, her family is the one that gets involved and affected in the process — a fact true to other politicians. "I may be buffalo skinned to overlook such comments, but my family feels bad. I chose politics over medicine and I know what I had to sacrifice to be in public life. But why should my kids be tormented?" she says. 
 
 Suggesting a solution to the menace, Soundarajan says there should be a proper legal mechanism to counter such trolls. "But it has to be done in a way that would make them the laughing stock in society and teach them a fitting lesson," she adds.
 
 
