Trichy: The directorate of school education has instructed higher secondary schools across the state to close down classes running without the minimum student strength. Each classroom in cities and municipalities should have at least 30 students whereas the strength should be 15 in rural areas.  Sending out a set of instructions dated April 16, the directorate of school education has instructed the chief educational officers to close down classes lacking the minimum strength and accommodate the students in nearby schools.  The decision comes in the wake of many postgraduate (PG) teachers in higher secondary schools remaining idle as they were not allotted the stipulated number of classes over low student strength.  As per rule, they should ideally handle 28 classes in a week, but the audit report has found that most of them handled only 7-8 classes a week and were idle most of the time, resulting in unnecessary expenditure to the government.  In perhaps the first time ever, orders have been issued asking post graduate teachers to handle Class IX and X in a strict manner.  “Many of the PG teachers, especially those handling language, are taking a maximum of 8 classes in a week for Class XI and XII against the stipulated 28 classes,” said the head master of a government higher secondary school in the city. This was primarily because of the low student strength in higher secondary classes in many schools, he added. Such teachers are often the reason for issues in schools as they are free for most part of the day while their counterparts handling other subjects take back-to-back classes for the same salary.  Saying that there could be at least 10,000 teachers in excess across government schools in the state including teachers in elementary schools, another PG teacher said that this could perhaps be the reason for delay in new recruitment of teachers. In all, 119 teachers were found in surplus in elementary and middle schools during the beginning of the last academic year in Trichy district and were sent on deputation to other districts.