BHUBANESWAR: The   ( ), a state-owned body, plans to run   in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack and some other cities of the state. It has sent a proposal to the Centre, seeking 52 such buses to start the project. 

 The department of heavy industries under the Union ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises offers sops on electric and hybrid vehicles under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric vehicles in India (FAME India) scheme.
 
 The OSRTC has requested the department to provide the 52 buses for 13 routes of the state. It has sought eight buses for the Bhubaneswar-Cuttack route, four buses each for the Bhubaneswar-Khurda, Bhubaneswar-Puri and Cuttack-Chandikhole routes, two each for the Rourkela-Kansabahal, Rourkela-Rajamunda and Rourkela-Ring Road routes, six buses each for the Berhampur-Gopalpur and Berhampur-Chatrapur sections, four buses each for the Cuttack-Charbatia, Jeypore-Koraput and Jeypore-Nabarangpur roads and two buses for the Jeypore-Baipariguda route.
 
 The total cost of the electric bus project is Rs 62.4 crore. The corporation has sought 100% funding from the department of heavy industries. "After getting the approval of the department, we can start the project," said S K Patel, general manager (administration) of OSRTC.
 
 Dilip Kumar Upadhyay, the corporation's DGM (technical), said the Centre had issued 'expression of interest' on October 31 last year for inviting pilot project proposals from cities having a population of more than 10 lakh for extending the grant to procure electric vehicles. The OSRTC had sent its proposal a month ago, he added.
 
 "Cuttack and Bhubaneswar have a total population of 14,43,744, according to the 2011 Census. Bhubaneswar is also a smart city. Environment pollution is increasing in both cities and so they need such vehicles," said the officer. He said they had also included Rourkela (another smart city), Jeypore, Berhampur and Khurda, which are witnessing rapid industrialization, in the project.
 
 
