Ladies, it may sometimes be hard to get a man’s attention, especially if he’s engrossed in a cricket match or is a die-hard footie fan and his favourite team is playing. But what if the competition you have comes from a palm-sized culprit? We’re talking of gadgets like the   or gaming device or even a laptop. That’s right. If your guy would rather spend more time with these than interact with you, that’s a red flag that you need to take heed of. Not only do bedroom dynamics change due to it, but it also leads to a feeling of isolation. If you have found yourself to be such a hapless  , you’re not alone...

 
 
 It’s not a win-win situation here for either parties. Like in the case of Kandivali-based finance executive Nikhil Pai, who admits that technology is his passion.
 “During the day I am involved with my finance work and the whole day goes in that, but when I am back I want to catch up with the online world. I like to read up on the latest happenings on sites like Twitter and be the first to be updated.” So, is being so caught up affecting his personal life? “Yes, I can relate to cyber widows because my wife has felt like that often enough. She even asks me, ‘Why didn’t you marry your phone’? We often sort it out, but sometimes arguments also crop up when I can’t keep the phone away, especially when I am watching live events like an international launch of a smartphone.” Any advice to those like him out there? “Well, I’d tell people to find a balance, though that is easier said than done,” he smiles. 
 For retail merchandiser Nitisha Jha from Bandra, who handles her work solo, she needs to be online at odd hours to keep up with the timings of her clients in the US. “Luckily, my husband is very patient about it and understands my schedule, but that ends up making me feel guilty too,” she says.
 
 
 
 Says clinical psychologist  , “I have come across do many cases like this. Women say, ‘My partner is ignoring me’ and sometimes they may even say, ‘He wasn’t like he was before, is it because he is no longer interested in me?’ This definitely affects the self-esteem of the person at the receiving end. The person may also feel depressed and what is unfortunate is that he or she may for happiness elsewhere.” She warns about using virtual time as a way to get at someone. “I have found this to be rampant when both couples are working. Both spend their time online and use that to vent out on the other, saying, ‘Oh, but you are busy working, too’. But this is no way solve anything. Always talk it out instead. Remember, the woman needs to first understand to be understood. Perhaps somewhere there is something that is triggering the partner to spend time away on gadgets. Yes, possibly, at times being online can’t be helped, but again, being online just for the heck the heck of it instead of giving your partner time and attention, will cause trouble.” 
 
 
 
 This is not something restricted just to women. Men can be at the receiving end, too. When women are glued to an online screen, it affects their partners just as much. 
 
 
 
 Don’t just sit down and feel ignored. Sit up and do something to change the situation...
 
 
 
 There are military-style boot camps in China where youngsters are quarantined to help them stay away from compulsive use of technology
 
 
