KALYAN: A 22-year-old   has been arrested for allegedly murdering an elderly woman who lived in his neighbourhood. The police said that the accused,  , was angry with the neighbour,   (60) for having verbally abused his mother during a quarrel.   clobbered Khanolkar's head with a pressure cooker, the police said. 

 Khanolkar, who lived alone, stayed a distance away from the Taydes' house which is located in   locality.
 
 Sources in the police said that Rohit barged into Khanolkar's home on Saturday afternoon and demanded to know why   had abused his mother. This sparked off an argument between the two of them. "In a fit of rage, Rohit picked up a pressure cooker and smacked it on her head," said a police officer. "Rohit then barged out of the house and slammed the door shut from outside."
 
 Khanolkar lived in Parsuram apartment since at least 12 years. She used to give tuitions to students of primary school. The police said that Khanolkar and Rohit's mother had got into an argument last week. The two women were well acquainted with one another. 
 
 The murder came to light only on Sunday morning when a few students visited Khanolkar's residence for tutions. The police said that she used to tutor children on Sunday mornings. As Khanolkar did not answer the door, the children checked with the neighbours. 
 
 That's when a couple of neighbours said that Khanolkar had not been seen since Saturday. Assuming that she was unwell, a few neighbours broke open the door and were shocked to find Khanolkar lying on the floor, with blood splattered all over the place.
 
 A police source said that initally Rohit tried to dodge them by giving evasive replies. They picked him up for interrogation. Police sources said that during investigation, they also learnt through an informer that Rohit had recenlty had an argument with Khanolkar. "Besides technical evidence points towards him," said the source. A team led by deputy commissioner Avinash Palde arrested Rohit. A case of murder has been registered at   police station. 
 
 Rohit, a science student, has failed in class XII thrice, said the police.
 
 
