NAVI MUMBAI: Several hundreds of residents of sector 6 in New Panvel had a harrowing time without power since Monday night due to a reported `cable fault'. Angry residents called up the offices of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited ( ) to complain how they are made to go without electricity for over 20 hours, which was especially tough on the elderly and the ailing members in the current hot weather.

 ``We were unable to even pump up the water to our overhead tanks as there was no power since 10.30 pm on Monday. When we called up MSEDCL they merely said `sorry' since a cable had burnt. We asked them why the cable could not be repaired in the night itself, for which they had no answer,'' commented one such affected citizen of Maruti Niwas Housing Society in sector 6, New Panvel. He added that there are over 120 families staying in the three wings of Maruti Niwas society, and all of them had a tough time coping without power.
 
 Some of the row houses here, along with a part of sector 1, were also affected due to this mammoth  .
 
 When TOI called up MSEDCL at New Panvel, an Assistant Engineer informed: ``The cable in sector 6 had completely burnt and hence there was no electricity in that area since last night. By Tuesday evening, when the new cable is fixed there, the power will be restored.''
 
 Another New Panvel local remarked: ``We often suffer due to power outages in this region as the electric cables here have become rather old and outdated. MSEDCL must revamp the cabling network here so that such unpardonable power failures do not happen.''
 
 A city activist Vishnu Gavali, commented: ``I also personally spoke to several senior MSEDCL officials in New Panvel and also Khanda Colony about this power issue. the problem is that if there is a major short circuit, or any technical cable fault at night time, then the officials on duty only try to locate the exact site in the morning hours, while the residents have to suffer all this while. Since they are legitimate power consumers who pay their bills on time, I think they deserve prompt service in case of such power cuts.''
 
 
