CHENNAI: As the   (CCB) probe into the   Group-I officers recruitment scam picked up steam, a city sessions court granted anticipatory bail to promoter of a coaching institute which accounted for 62 of 74 Group-1 officers selected over a year ago.

 
  
 
 The XV additional sessions judge (vacation judge), S Purushothaman, granted the anticipatory bail to Sam Rajeswaran of Apollo Study Centre, and directed him not to leave India without the prior permission of the court. 
 
 It was in the remand application for Kasi Ram Kumar, a section officer of TNPSC, that the CCB said that out of 74 Group-1 officers selected after 2016 examinations, 62 were from Apollo Study Centre run by Sam Rajeswaran. However, most of these recruited people could not join duty, as the scam had hit the headlines prompting the Madras high court to bar their postings till the case reaches a conclusion. Now, the CCB has nominated Shyamala Devi, an SP-rank officer to handle the investigation. Already four people have been arrested in connection with the scam including Kasi, wherein the police suspect Rs 1 crore per candidate had been paid to middlemen, evaluators and question paper setters, besides TNPSC officials.
 
 Initially, the case was handled by the cyber-crime wing of the city police and later transferred to the forgery wing of the CCB.
 
 On Wednesday, the prosecution lodged a ‘strong objection’ against grant of anticipatory bail plea to Rajeswaran and and argued that the high court had already given a go ahead to the CCB and said the probe was proceeding in the right manner. Additional sessions judge Purushothaman, however, allowed the bail application concurring with the submission of Rajeswaran’s counsel that the   had not recovered even a single document against the petitioner so far, that too even after arresting four TNPSC section officers. The judge granted the relief with a condition that Rajeswaran should appear before the investigating officer every Monday for eight weeks.
 
 The CCB’s remand application filed on April 26, seeking judicial custody of Kasi, stated that Kasi confessed to having committed the offence by conspiring with Rajeswaran. The application said Kasi was arrested based on the evidences seized during a raid in the Apollo Study Centre run by Rajeswaran on January 28.
 
 The information from various documents, phone numbers, and model question papers seized from the study centre revealed a clear picture of the crime and its modus operandi including the illegal favours done by section officer Kasi to Rajeswaran for gain, the remand memo said.
 
 
