CHANDIGARH:   (H-Rera), Gurugram has imposed a penalty of Rs 30 lakh on a private developer for inviting applications for its housing project without registering it with the regulatory body. 

 Gurugram bench of the H-Rera comprising its chairman   and members   and Samir Kumar passed these orders on Tuesday, while deciding a case where it had taken suo motu cognizance of the alleged irregularities by a private builder  . The estimated cost of company's project was around Rs 357.11 crore.
 
 "The authority is of the view that   has violated the provisions by publishing the advertisement in the newspapers as well as on the website without getting prior registration of the project from the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority, Gurugram in whose jurisdiction the said project falls and thereby committed the violation of Section 3 (1) of the Act and rendered themselves for action under Section 59 (1) of the ibid Act," H-Rera chairman Khandelwal observed in the detailed order. Directing the company to pay Rs 30 lakh as penalty for the violations, the authority further observed that such violation would not be allowed.
 
 It is first judgement by H-Rera, Gurugram, after starting its operations last month from a makeshift office. 
 
 In this case, Krisumi Corporation had published an advertisement in the newspapers on February 26 regarding the first Indo-Japanese mega real estate project 'Krisumi City Waterfall Residences, Sector 36A, Gurugram.' A similar advertisement was found published on the company's website.
 
 While taking cognizance of these advertisements, H-Rera made search of the record of its office whether the project, for which advertisement has been made, was registered with it or not.After it found that no such project has been registered with the authority and by doing this, the real estate company has violated the provisions, the H-Rera took suo motu cognizance and asked the company to explain its position.
 
 In its reply before H-Rera, the company submitted that it had issued the advertisement in the newspapers but it was not made to invite applications for sale but was just for making the prospective buyers familiar with the project.
 
 
