THANE: The   ( ) is actively considering to construct elevated hawking plazas at the various peddler-prone zones in the lake city to ensure the road remain congestion free. 

 Termed as the floating market, the first of its shopping plaza on the elevated decks will be set up in   on a trial basis with TMC setting aside Rs 65 crores for the project. Should the concept be accepted and acknowledged by the citizens community, the administration would replicate the same elsewhere in hawker-infested areas of Thane as well.
 
 As per plans, the TMC will construct an elevated deck along the main road connecting Mumbra and Kausa which is presently swarmed by hawkers throughout the day. The 600-m-long and 30-m-wide deck will have space for hawkers to vend their wares and also adequate seating space for pedestrians. The deck will have ramps at either ends along with elevators at intervals for the convenience of residents.
 
 The project is presently at the conceptual stage and the administration is working out its feasibility following which a proposal would be prepared for the approval of the general body in the next financial year. The elevated hawkers plaza could be ready by next year if all the things go as planned in the next fiscal, an official said. While several attempts to evacuate and relocate hawkers have failed across the city, officials said this new initiative aims to allocate space for the peddlers at the same location but on a separate grade ensuring they dont cause hindrance to the traffic. 
 
 A market was also constructed in the vicinity but the vendors refused to move claiming the units were too far from their original business locations. Despite several drives, the hawkers have seen to return making the corporation formulate this solution. The municipal commissioner has allocated funds for the floating market in the budget for the next fiscal. We will construct decks on the Mumbra-Kausa road on a trial basis, said a senior official from the municipal corporation. 
 
 Meanwhile, activists have lashed out at the administration for suggesting such an initiative saying it was an injustice meted out to the tax paying shopkeeper who would be deprived of an opportunity. We have been paying taxes to the municipal corporation but they havent ever taken any initiative to help grow our business. 
 
 This plan to rehabilitate hawkers at the taxpayers expense needs to be looked into seriously, said a member from the traders association requesting anonymity.
 
 
