Nagpur: What could be termed as a unique case in the history of the city, a murder convict, who had cleared chartered accountancy examination while being an undertrial, has been granted bail to pursue LLB. The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court, on Tuesday, granted temporary bail to Anand Adtani so that he could appear for the third and fourth semester exam of the three-year LLB course by Nagpur University. Anand was convicted for murdering his brother Suraj’s father-in-law Ramesh Chandi on April 21, 2013. The altercation took place over his brother’s matrimonial dispute with wife. He was aspiring to be a chartered accountant when the incident took place. The Jaripatka resident was booked on a complaint lodged by the deceased’s wife Kanchan. Even as the trial continued, Anand cleared the CA exam. Later, finding him guilty of murder charge, he was sentenced to life imprisonment by the sessions court here. After his conviction, Anand decided to pursue law and enrolled for the three-year LLB degree. As the exam was scheduled to begin on Tuesday itself, he had prayed the high court for bail. Taking humanitarian view, a division comprising Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Zaka Haq granted him bail till May 4 when his last paper is scheduled. “Having regard to the appellant’s conduct and in order to fulfil his inspiration to pursue higher education, we’re of the view that on this occasion, he could be granted temporary bail,” the judges said. Earlier, the court appointed Mir Nagman Ali as amicus curiae to plead Adtani’s case. The amicus contended that on a specified date, the petitioner had surrendered before the jail authorities in compliance with the directives issued to him by the HC. Moreover, the convict’s conduct discloses his respect for the law. “So far as the petitioner’s conduct is concerned, we’ve no doubt whatsoever in our mind that he has been complying with the directions issued by this court,” the judges said. Though the NU exam commenced on Tuesday and Adtani managed to get the relief only in afternoon, he had to miss the first paper. “Though the petitioner has missed the first paper on Tuesday, there are four more papers to go for which the petitioner can at least be offered an opportunity to appear,” the judges said. The petitioner was asked to furnish a PR bond of Rs25,000 together with one solvent surety before being released on bail. He was also told to surrender before the jail authorities latest by 4pm on May 4. He was further directed to attend Jaripatka police station every Sunday between 4pm and 5pm, till he is out on bail. Anand needs to submit his latest residential address and phone numbers along with that of his nearest relatives to the police station. The court asked police to release him only after completing all these formalities.