Designer   has always been vocal about his love for saris, but little did he know that his comments at a Harvard conference about the younger generation not wearing saris would cause such an uproar on social media, that he would have to write an open letter to explain himself. 

  
  
 The designer, while speaking at the Harvard India Conference, said, "If you tell me that you do not know how to wear a sari, I would say shame on you." After receiving flak on social media, where his remarks were called "patriarchal and anti-feminist," the designer wrote an open letter apologizing for his comment, and explained that his remarks came from his frustration with women being told that saris make them look older or like ‘aunties’. His statement at the conference was a response to a comment by an audience member that the younger generation feels that wearing a   "makes them look older."
 
  
  
 He addressed this in his letter and said, "Body shaming, attaching connotations of ‘Auntie Ji’, calling them sloppy; these are all ways that some men and women alike belittle the sari (and, more accurately, the wearer of the sari). These comments are laced with sarcasm and connotations of cultural repression and backwardness. Many women, young and old, are scared to have an outing in a sari because it is shrouded in so many layers of taboo and controversy, often citing inability to correctly drape a sari as an exit point."
 
  
  Who knew a sari could make for the perfect airport look?   is often seen wearing saris while catching flights, usually pairing them with loafers 
 
 The designer might be right in pointing out the stereotypes attached with wearing a sari, but when we spoke to young women in the city who often wear saris, they say that "there is nothing more glam and liberating" than wearing a sari, and "no one is called an aunty for wearing a sari anymore."
 They agree that there was a time when draping a sari would invite questions like 'Aaj kuch special hai kya?’ or ‘Arey, tumhari shaadi ho gayi kya?’, but it is no longer true, as more young women are now comfortable wearing a sari on a regular basis. They add that remarks like these do not come from their peers, but from the older generation.
  
  Sonam is seen experimenting with saris by draping them in different ways. Here, she’s sporting a dhoti-sari look on the go
 
  
  Sari is the signature look of  
 
 
  
  
  
  Deepika is seen donning a sari at most formal gatherings
 
 
 
 Agreeing that there was a time when women would avoid wearing a sari, fearing that they would be called an ‘aunty’, Delhi girls say that this has changed now, and women of all age groups are wearing saris regularly, not just at work, but also in colleges. 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
