PATNA: The cases of   (LWE) violence in the state has dropped considerably in the first quarter (January-March), compared to the corresponding period last year. 

 According to the Union   ( ) data, there has been 13 LWE-related cases in   between January and March this year, compared to 26 cases during this period in 2017. However, the number of casualties remained the same (5) in the first quarter of both 2017 and this year.
 
 Sources said the two encounters between security forces and Maoists at Madanpur in Aurangabad and Chakarbandha in   on Friday and Saturday morning respectively also show that the Reds are on back foot in the state.
 
 Sources said a joint team of 205 and 159 CoBRA battalions along with special task force (STF) commandos had an encounter with the Maoists on Chakarbandha hills near Sagarpur village under the Chakarbandha police station area of Gaya district on Saturday morning. “Amid heavy exchange of fire, the Maoists fled and left behind their backpacks and huge quantity of daily use household items. A rifle was also seized from the spot,” a senior police said.
 
 He said Maoists were forced to flee from one of their camps at Madanpur in Aurangabad on Friday evening after heavy exchange of fire with the 205 CoBRA battalion commandos. “They left behind huge quantity of food items like rice, flour and potatoes,” he said.
 
 The cop said the number of LWE-affected districts in Bihar has reduced to 16 against 22 last year. “Now, Aurangabad, Gaya, Jamui and Lakhisarai are the only most affected LWE violence districts,” he said.
 
 Patna, Bhojpur, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Begusarai, Muzaffarpur, Banka and Khagaria were recently removed from the list of LWE-affected districts by the Ministry of Home Affairs.
 
 It was for the first time in 12 straight years that no security personnel lost their lives in the state in LWE violence last year. But this year, CoBRA commando Ashish Patra (29) lost his life following gunshot injuries received during a search and destroy operation against the Maoists at Chakarbandha.
 
 
