JAIPUR: As the date of the release of the controversial film ‘Padmaavat’ is approaching, the Shree Rajput Karni Sena (SRKS) and other Rajput outfits on Monday reiterated their stand of not allowing the release at any cost. The film is set to release on January 25. SRKS chief   on Monday warned the cinema hall owners of dire consequences if they went ahead with the release of the film. “The Supreme Court in its order has not prevented anyone to raise their protest against the film. We will raise our objection till the film is banned,” said Kalvi.

 Sensing law and order problem, the state filed a review petition and sought support from the erstwhile rulers and SRKS on Monday. A review petition in the Supreme Court order staying Rajasthan government’s notification imposing ban on the film ‘Padmaavat’ was filed. The state has gone to the extent of pleading that matter should be heard on urgent basis as two effective days remain for the date of release. Other states like Haryana and   have also filed the petition.
 
 Later in the day, state government invited Arvind Singh Mewar of erstwhile royal family of Mewar and the Karni Sena, which has been protesting, to become a party in the petition in the SC. Home minister Gulab Chand   said that erstwhile Mewar royal Arvind Singh was among the panel of three people who had watched the film. “Both Karni Sena and the erstwhile rulers of Mewar become party to the state government’s petition,” said Kataria.
 
 Expressing the seriousness of the state in resolving the issue, Kataria concluded that “Government has exercised all the constitutional rights to address the sentiments of the people and will continue to address the sentiments.” Meanwhile, firebrand international working president of the Vishva Hindu Parishad, Praveen Togadia has asked the Union government to bring out an ordinance imposing a ban on the film. “The matter is not related to the Rajput community but it is related to the pride of all Hindus,” said Togadia, while talking to the media persons in Jaipur on Monday. What if the release is not stopped? He replied that VHP and   members will come on streets to protest against the movie democratically. “If the Union government fails to bring an ordinance we will impose a public curfew outside cinema halls screening the film,” said Togadia.
 
 
