CHENNAI: The BJP’s leaders in   seem to be hoping against hope that the party’s surge in   would revive its prospects in Tamil Nadu as well. The reality here is different though due to a range of factors like the dominance of the Dravidian parties, the inability of the BJP leaders in the state to capitalise on the Modi wave that swept across the country in 2014 and the Centre’s reluctance to stand by the state on the Cauvery issue despite a Supreme Court order.

 It may not be easy for the BJP to shed the “anti-Tamil” tag the opposition parties in Tamil Nadu have gifted it. The ongoing Cauvery dispute is just the latest of the issues. On a range of subjects, the BJP has failed to effectively counter the propaganda carried out by the DMK-led opposition. The flip-flop on NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) last year and the Centre giving a long lease of life to the unpopular   government, marred by corruption charges on an unprecedented scale, have all been fodder for the opposition.
 
 The AIADMK is no longer the party it was when it was headed by the indomitable  . As on date, it lacks the strength and public support to defeat the DMK in a general election. Even an alliance with the AIADMK may not help the BJP much at the hustings.
 
 Entry of superstar Rajinikanth into politics could trigger a churning. But will Rajini be willing for a tie-up with the BJP when the party is losing ground in Tamil Nadu is a question that only time will tell. “Rajini’s fans are waiting too, but the actor is clear in his mind that unless there is assembly election, he will not enter the fray,” said one of his close associates.
 
 Finally, it would all boil down to the BJP central leadership’s core ideology of isolating the Congress, which may work in Tamil Nadu also. The uneasiness in the DMK-Congress relationship is something that the BJP is keenly watching. A senior BJP leader said that given the situation, the party would stand to gain indirectly if the   was forced to leave the DMK alliance. “There are no permanent friends or enemies in politics. If the pre-poll alliances don’t work, we can work on post-poll tie-ups. The DMK may not be inimical to the BJP at the Centre if they win majority of seats in the Lok Sabha elections,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, a leadership change is on the cards in the BJP unit in Tamil Nadu as Tamilisai Soundararajan has completed nearly four years. The new leadership has a tough task on hand.
 
 
