LUDHIANA (KOOM KALAN): Taking a dig at the   government in the state,   (SAD) president   Badal has alleged that Gandhi family had always committed atrocities and injustice with the people of Punjab whether be it Operation Bluestar or the Sikh riots of 1984. Sukhbir said despite all this, people of Punjab had given a chance to the Congress government this time but now every sector is feeling betrayed and cheated. The SAD president said this while addressing a gathering at a ‘Pol khol’ rally organized by SAD MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon in Koom Kalan on Thursday. He also said that the party workers would gherao Punjab assembly on March 20 against the state government for not fulfilling its promises. 

 Sukhbir also condemned the Congress government for the allegation it had raised on the youth of Punjab by saying that 70% of them were drug addicts. He also questioned whether after coming into power the Congress leaders had caught hold of some big drug peddlers or smugglers in the state. Sukhbir said the Congress as well as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders gave such statements just to defame Punjab and the SAD so that they could come into power. 
 
 The SAD chief added that it was condemnable that the Congress government aimed to start old age pension and Shagun scheme from January 2018 this year even though these benefits were pending since more than one year now. He said the SAD would gherao the assembly on March 20. “We will not let the government lie and run away from fulfilling its promises,” he added. 
 
 Addressing the gathering, Sukhbir said rather than giving any relief to the people the government had introduced new taxes, increased power rates and stopped distribution of social welfare benefits. “Even work on sewerage projects has been stopped. The people have a right to know where money collected on account of GST, excise and other taxes that has come into the government treasury been spent?” 
 
 The SAD president also made it clear that the party would not tolerate registration of false cases against its cadre and that any officer doing so would have to bear the lawful repercussions. 
 
 Senior party leader Bikram Singh Majithia said the Congress was running away from discussing its performance and that’s why it had curtailed the budget session to 7 days. Speaking about the recent observations by the chief minister after witnessing illegal sand mining while travelling on a helicopter, Majithia said the CM did not have to rely on aerial surveys to arrive at this conclusion. “He has already been handed over a list of Congress leaders, who are indulging in illegal mining. He needs to act against them.” 
 
 Speaking on the occasion, former minister and   MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said the Congress government was not going ahead with establishment of the Dhanansu focal point deliberately because the people of Sahnewal had reposed faith in the SAD. 
 
 SAD rejects Justice (retd) Ranjit Singh Commission 
 
 The Shiromani Akali Dal on Thursday passed a resolution calling for scrapping of the Justice (retd) Ranjit Singh Commission and demanded that all cases of sacrilege during the SAD-BJP tenure as well as the during Congress rule should be probed by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court. The resolution was passed at a rally organized by the party here in the presence of SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal as well as the senior leadership. Moving the resolution, senior leader Maheshinder Singh Grewal said the party would cooperate with any commission headed by a Supreme Court judge as it was of the firm view that Justice Ranjit Singh (retd) was biased towards the SAD due to his close ties with the Congress party. He also pointed out that the commission was summoning SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal when recently both chief minister Amarinder Singh as well as the state police chief had stated that foreign agencies were behind recent attempts to create communal tension in Punjab. 
 
 
