PUNE: Scientists at the city-based National Institute of Virology ( ) have developed a breakthrough technology which promises to revolutionize the present procedure of   deadly viruses in India and abroad. 

 The scientists have developed compounds, which can be added to blood collection tubes (vacutainer) to instantly render a wide range of viruses non-infectious, without affecting their cell structure. Thus, the method eliminates bio-risks involved in handling   viruses, making their testing possible even at common laboratories. Eventually, it eliminates the need to test such samples at highly secured bio-safety  , eliminating huge expenses on logistics and delays in diagnosis.
 
 “The technology has the potential to change the way clinical laboratories are currently functioning across the world. It can protect laboratory workers from viruses and ensure safe experimenting with highly infectious agents even at common laboratories,” senior scientist and NIV director Devendra Mourya told TOI.
 
 The method, scientists said, will come in handy in countries like India where there is a dearth of highly-equipped containment laboratories.
  
  
 
 The NIV has handed over the novel technology to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), an apex body in the country for the formulation, coordination and promotion of biomedical research, for commercial transfer to industry.
 
 “The technology is indigenous, cost-effective and can be easily incorporated in the manufacturing process of blood collection tubes in India and elsewhere. Our only rider is that the manufacturing companies have to supply the tubes containing the compounds at cheaper rates to make it accessible to every lab in the country,” Mourya said.
 
 The reagents or chemical compounds that render the viruses inactive remain stable and effective even at room temperature. They don’t need to be kept or preserved in cold temperature.
 
 “Most importantly, the inactivation of the viruses does not affect biochemical, haematological, serological and molecular tests. This is precisely where scientists working on developing similar methods in different parts of the world have failed in the past,” Mourya said.
 
 The scientists have validated the efficacy of the formulation against viruses that include Japanese Encephalitis, Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), dengue, chikungunya, Chandipura and Crimean Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF). Among these viruses, CCHF and KFD are highly lethal and can be transmitted between humans via close contact with blood or other body fluid.
 
 “Viruses like CCHF and KFD need biosafety level 3 and 4 laboratories for carrying out the test. Hence, blood samples of a suspected patient are always sent to these labs as testing of these viruses should only be conducted under maximum biological containment conditions,” Mourya said.
 
 Asked if the compounds will be equally effective in inactivating HIV-AIDS   and bacterium that causes tuberculosis, Mourya said, “We didn’t try our compounds on the AIDS virus and TB bacterium, but we are confident that they will get inactivated easily as the viruses on which we validated them are more potent than these.”
 
 In addition to validating the inactivation formula against all the five viruses at NIV, experts at the government-run Sawai Man Singh Medical College in Jaipur and King George’s Medical University in Lucknow also validated the efficacy of the technology independently between November and December last year.
 
 “The inactivation method is very helpful in transporting the samples from long distance, especially when we are dealing with an unknown biohazard. Besides, it does not compromise various diagnostic parameters,” said senior microbiologist Amita Jain, professor and head, Virus Research and Diagnostic Lab, King George Medical University.
 
 Senior microbiologist Bharti Malhotra of SMS Medical College in Jaipur said, “The newly developed reagents or formulation by NIV scientists inactivate the virus but do not interfere with serological and molecular testing. It is very useful in our country.”
 
 Another NIV scientist Gajanan N Sapkal said, “The inactivation formulation (which are well-established chemical compounds in liquid form) can be added with other blood preserving substances that are usually thin coatings applied using ultrasonic nozzle during the manufacturing of blood collection tubes. Hence, there are no complexities involved in using the technology. Everything is taken care of during the manufacturing of the tubes.”
 
 Sapkal was involved in testing the inactivation of viruses at the experimental level and also during the field evaluation studies.
 
 
