AGRA: Settling into a quiet retired life after work was not something that Indore resident  , 61, and his wife  , 57, looked forward to. There were commitments still to be made - to friends, neighbours and organisations. With Pooja riding pillion on a classic Royal Enfield motorcycle, this   couple has been touring since September 27 last year with a message to the younger generation that life after retirement is a transition which needs to be celebrated. Till date, the couple has covered around 5,500 kilometres in 150 days – from Leh on one end to Agra on the other. They have a 34-year-old daughter, Swati Chauhan, who lives in Indore. The couple’s only son died in an accident four years ago.
 
  “We lost no time after my retirement early last year. We were so keen to head out of home, see the world around us. Our primary motto behind this journey is to tell young people that life continues after retirement,” said Dilip, who was as a manager at the State Bank of India branch in Indore.
  
  The journey, however, required extensive planning and adapting their bodies to stress. They began taking long walks and jogged in the mornings and evenings. Dilip made sure that they went on long bike rides by placing extra weight on the vehicle and changed their food habits for enhanced fitness.
  
  The Chauhans began their journey from the Mahakaleshwar Temple in Ujjain. They travelled through Ajmer, Bikaner, Delhi, Chandigarh, Amritsar, Dalhousie, Srinagar, Leh and Ladakh. Through biker clubs, the Chauhans contacted local residents and stayed with them at the towns they travelled through, they said.
  
  “While at a local resident’s house in Srinagar, we celebrated Dussehra. It was beautiful. They treated us like family members,” said Dilip.
  
  Pooja quickly shared one of her favourite homestays. “We also celebrated Diwali with a Nepali family in Dharamshala, Himachal Pradesh, and enjoyed local food prepared by the family.”
  
  “We had to stop our tour for nearly four months following an accident on the   in October. My collar bone was fractured and Pooja also suffered some minor injuries. But we will continue our journey from Agra to Gorakhpur and Nepal on Monday,” added Dilip. The 150-day long tour is slated to end in Ujjain.
  
  Extended family members said the couple’s positive attitude towards life is what helps them undertake such adventures. “My father’s decision did not change even after the accident. We all support them and pray that they can complete the journey safely,” said their daughter, Swati.
  
  Vikram Shukla, member of Agra-based club ‘We Royal Riders’, said, “We have extended all possible help to the couple. It is heartening to see how retirement has failed to deter them from taking bigger challenges in life.”
