CHANDIGARH: Parking vehicle and then returning for it on the same spot in the multi-level parking near the MC building in Sector 17 has become a matter of security for many city-based residents. As many as forty lights attached to the ceiling of the first parking basement remain dysfunctional since two-three months now forcing the residents to look for their vehicles in dark. 

 The lights, which are attached to the ceiling, and covered in glass panels, have been lying defunct. This results in dark spots, creating an atmosphere of extreme discomfort and trouble for the regular users of the parking lot, with women being the worst hit. 
 
 "Imagine the plight of a place in pitch darkness without any light in the evening and night, which is hardly illuminated in the day time," said one of the parking attendants. 
 
 The lack of light at various spots around the basement has thus made people extremely wary of using the basement after sunset and they have also complained of feeling scared and uncertain in the parking area once the sun sets. Speaking to TOI,  , a shopkeeper working in Sector 17 said, "I have identified a couple of places downstairs where the lights don't work and avoid parking the car there. But, sometimes I am left with no choice but to park my car there. A few days ago, I had to come back to my car around 9pm and it was pitch dark here. I could only find it after about 10 minutes of searching."
 
 Despite having almost four parking attendants supervising the vehicles in the morning, barely two watchman are employed to take care of the parking until 12pm post the morning shift ends. Speaking to TOI,  , working in a fashion boutique nearby said, "It gets really scary in the evening and deserted too. Not many cars can be seen parked by the time it is dark. But, I have a busy schedule these days, and hence I have to use the parking lot till 9pm. I tripped over a concrete platform looking for my car, used to separate rows of parked cars in the parking, and bruised my knee one day as it was completely dark."
 
 At other times, many residents also complained about a threat from stray dogs, that sometimes take refuge inside the parking space. "The dogs keep barking at times and it becomes difficult to deal with. If we cannot see properly in various parts of the basement, it can be potentially dangerous," added another parking user. 
 
 However, when asked about the reason behind the negligence surrounding the lights, an HR employee, working with the company maintaining the upkeep of the multi-level parking confirmed to have filed a complaint with the MC almost a month ago. However, despite repeated efforts to contact  , the official authority in this matter working with the same company, no response could be gathered. 
 
 
