PUNE: The city’s maximum temperature recorded at the Shivajinagar observatory crossed the 40°C mark for the second time in five days on Sunday. At the   observatory, the maximum temperature has been consistently above the 40°C since Wednesday.

 The day temperature recorded at Lohegaon on Sunday was 41.3°C, which was 3.3 degrees higher than normal. Even the night temperature was above normal by 2.9 degrees, at 23.9°C. The Shivajinagar observatory recorded 40.3°C, which was 2.6 degrees higher than normal. The minimum temperature was 23.5°C, above normal by 1.6 degrees.
 
 Any hopes of an immediate respite have also evaporated, with the   ( ) predicting that the daytime temperature will hover between 39°C and 40°C this week.
 
 An IMD official said the weather conditions are conducive to high temperatures. There is little chance for cloudy conditions, which means clear skies will ensure the maximum temperature remains above normal, he said. 
 
 Since March 1, Pune’s maximum temperature crossed 40°C for the first time on April 27 (40.2°C). The next day, the city recorded 40.4°C. Those were the only two days in April where the temperature crossed the 40°C mark.
 
 However, on May 1, mercury was at a season’s high of 40.7°C. Between then and Sunday, the temperature has ranged between 38°C and 39°C.
 
 Pune is not alone in experiencing higher-than-normal temperature in Maharashtra. “The Vidarbha region will experience heatwave-like conditions. Other regions in Maharashtra, like Madhya   and Marathwada, will also experience higher than normal temperatures,” an IMD official said. 
 
 “The north-south trough runs from north Madhya Maharashtra to east-central Arabian Sea, off Karnataka coast across north interior Karnataka,” stated the weather report issued by the IMD on Saturday.
 
 On May 1, the soaring mercury in Vidarbha set new temperature records in three places in the region. While Chandrapur had the highest day temperature recorded by any IMD station in India since March, the mercury rose to a 10-year high in Nagpur and Yavatmal.
 
 
