HYDERABAD:  , a Superintendent of Police cadre officer in   blames movies for rising incidents of stalking in the country. "We must outrightly denounce the popular culture promoted by Indian movies where the overly-persistent pursuit of a female lead is acceptable and she ends up falling for the male lead. Such narratives make stalking seem like a normal part of romance. Our filmmakers must learn to use art responsibly. Stalking is not love and assertive courtship is not courtship at all. Period," said Rajeshwari.

 "In every Telugu films, the hero is seen chasing the heroine, playing pranks on her, stalking her and building pressure on her to make her fall for him. It's the same routine," says Rajeshwari.
 
 In movies, it is not unusual for the hero to just spot the actress and fall for her. He then tries to get her phone number, shows up at places she visits and does theatrics and pranks to garner her attention. The actress eventually falls for him.
 
 S Ravi, who felt strongly about the issue, tweeted, "Heroines are portrayed as showpieces in most movies. The hero stalks the actress and chases her but no one raises their voice against such acts. The heroine, who is initially angry with such acts, later accepts the proposal. This sends the message that every youth can woo a girl in a similar manner. However, in real life when the stalker faces rejection, then incidents of acid attacks and other forms of violence take place."
 
 Jaya Prakash Reddy, a doctor, points out that the 'stalking culture' is prominent in all Indian films, but more in Tollywood. 
 
 "Producers argue that films are meant only for entertainment and the audience should forget it as soon as they leave the theatre. However, they don't realise the ills of stalking as their motive is just to earn money. Even senior producers and directors fail to understand the seriousness of the issue. It is a never ending issue. Even Telugu serials project stories that influence women to break their families," he said.
 
 Producer   agreed with  , who was part of Yale Maurice R Greenberg World Fellows Programme 2017, that cinema needs to change. "But why expect only cinema to change. Television also has some social responsibility and the entire media has responsibility to bring about change," Rao said.
 
 
