KOLKATA: An integrated development plan for the 115 Most Backward Districts (MBD) in the country, of which five are from  , has hit a roadblock in the state.

 The   government doesn’t agree with PM Narendra Modi’s plan because the Centre proposes to engage a central government officer to oversee the development of these five districts spread over Malda, Murshidabad, South Dinajpur, Birbhum and Nadia. The state government sees it as “a direct interference in the federal set-up of the country and therefore unconstitutional”.
 
 Taking exception to the Centre’s plan, Banerjee has decided against responding to the letter from   to chief secretary Moloy De.
 
 “The central government has appointed prabhari officers to monitor the implementation of the scheme in these districts without consulting the state government, which will create confusion. In the federal set-up, the central government should consult with the state government before implementing any development scheme in the country,” a senior Bengal government official said.
 
 To make its stand clear, the state government didn’t send any representative to the January 4-5   Aayog conference that was addressed by PM Modi. Odisha was the only other state that didn’t participate in the conference.
 
 Niti Aayog has already appointed eight joint and additional secretary-rank officers of the Union government as prabhari officers to coordinate with collectors of backward districts in Bengal. The secretaries would directly send reports to the Centre on health, education, economy and state of infrastructure in the MBDs, with the state government having no role in the reports. “This is purely bypassing the state and creating a parallel administration that cannot be accepted in a federal structure,” the senior government official said.
 
 Asked about the content of the letter Niti Aayog sent, the official added: “The central government has made certain parameters like health, sanitation, job opportunity, agriculture, income to judge the development index of the districts. In the recent conference, they designed a roadmap where the central government will give financial and infrastructural assistance for the development of these districts. They wanted us to give our opinion on that. As we didn’t participate in the conference, there is no question of responding to the letter.”
 
 
