DHARAMSHALA: Hundreds of residents of Dhar village in Kangra district stopped a train going to Pathankot from Jogindernagar at Lunsu railway station for an hour at noon as part of their protest demanding proper water supply. 

 Men, women, the elderly and children held placards with slogans demanding roads and proper water supply to their village. According to them, since Independence, the only medium of transport they have is the narrow gauge train introduced in 1929. 
 
 Nitin Thakur, pradhan of Dhar village said they have submitted a memorandum with the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) in Dehra, giving him an ultimatum to start work on the road announced 30 years ago.
 
 “We have been awaiting a road for years. About 47 families were forced to leave this village. Residents approached the administration to start work and submitted a memorandum but nothing was done. Now, people of the area are forced to protest,” he said.
 
 This village is located about 50 kms away from the district headquarters in Dharamshala. Thakur said he has a list of people who have migrated from here. “Ambulance cannot reach our village. We still have palanquin (palki) system to take patients to hospitals,” said  , a village resident.
 
 Even as villagers stopped the train, no one from the administration reached the spot to listen to their grievances. The train was allowed to move when police turned up. 
 
 On February 8, village residents approached SDM, Dehra   to start work on the road, giving him a 15-day ultimatum. But officials attributed the delay to issues related to forest clearances.
 
 Residents said this was not a symbolic protest. “If work on the road does not start by March 15, we will be forced take bigger steps,” they warned.
 
 Residents of   village also joined the protest. They said they have to walk 10 to 12kms for basic needs. Area legislator Hoshiar Singh said this is a persistent problem. "Dhar is the remotest area of my constituency. No previous government made efforts to connect these villages. I have requested forest department to provide clearances at the earliest," he said, adding that forest clearances were the only hindrances. 
 
 
