MADURAI: Every day 63-year-old   reaches ‘Puthuyuga Valibar Threga Payirchi Salai’ (new age gym) in Madurai’s   area sharp at 6am. He picks up a heavy shovel and starts digging a dirt pit on the campus. For him, it is just a warm up before the ‘kusthi’ (wrestling) practice. Gnanaolivu is one among the last of a league of wrestlers, who are struggling to keep the sport alive in the city today. His kusthi ground, which is more than 70 years old, is the last surviving wrestling school in Madurai, which had more than 12 such schools between 1940 and 1980.

 These wrestling schools were also a part of the political movements those days, when the   and the   were the major parties. "The wrestling school helped me to nurture the Community party in this area," said 92-year-old wrestler and hard-core party man Palani, who is also the master of Gnanaolivu.
 
 "Those days, people looking for work required physical fitness as Madurai was known for its textile mills, and wrestling every morning was an attractive way for the youngsters to tone their bodies. Almost all parties including, the newly-formed DMK, had wrestling schools. The training yielded results when there were political clashes," explained Solomon, 62, a wrestling master.
 
 Not just political fights, muscle power was also put to use in constructive work. "My boys those days were sturdy and we dug channels to bring drinking water to the locality. We have also laid roads and done all sorts of public works. Physical well-being was an asset, a tool for public service," Palani says.
 
 The wrestling schools used the most unconventional result-yielding methods to hone skills of young wrestlers – digging the wrestling pit, climbing a nearby hillock, swimming the breadth of the village tank and climbing trees are a few to name. The preparing of the wrestling arena is also worth a mention - fine soil is mixed with neemcake powder and fresh neem and eucalyptus leaves, making it highly medicinal.
 
 Unlike earlier days, youngsters today join the school for bodybuilding purposes. With only a few opting for wrestling, the sport at the school is limited to elderly wrestlers like Gnanaolivu. Keeping in mind the waning demand for wrestling, the school’s trust upgraded it into a gymnasium in 1990. "Youth mostly come here to train for police selection and army entrances. Wrestling at the school is taught only on demand if anyone expresses interest," says Palani.
 
 Eighty-three year old, A Ramu gingerly joins Palani when asked to demonstrate their prowess in the arena. "It was a lot of fun those days, and it is sad that Kusthi has disappeared from the face of Madurai. With us, the last of wrestlers will disappear," he rues.
 
 Palani says the interest in wrestling diminished among the youth with the growing craze for bodybuilding. "More than training wrestlers, we prepare youth in the locality for defence and police forces. At least six to 10 boys who train here clear the exams," he says.
 
 Solomon feels the craze towards martial arts like Karate or Judo also took away a chunk of their students. "The job requirement now is more of brain power than muscle power. The political scenario has also changed. The muscle power that was used for public welfare transformed into rowdyism, discouraging many youngsters towards wrestling," he said. 
 
 
