VISAKHAPATNAM: The start-up culture in   is showing no signs of picking up pace despite being kick-started in the city about three years ago.

 Experts in the field of Information Technology (IT) and enabled services are chalking up the snail’s pace of progress of the start-up trend to various reasons such as lack of technology back-up, shortage of venture capitalists, and an absence of proper mentoring to budding entrepreneurs and scarce marketing skills besides lack of support from college managements to students right from the time of launching the startups.
 
 Speaking to TOI, O  , executive director of Information Technology Association of AP (ITAAP), said many college managements in the city are not properly encouraging their students with regard to the start-up system right from the beginning of their academic year.
 
 “College managements should be ready to invest money if their students come up with a start-up proposal on a small product, but this practice is absent in the city. Apart from this, lack of technology, infrastructure, mentoring and financial support to start-up firms are also cited as the main reasons for the poor progress of the start-up trend in the city,” Naresh Kumar said.
 
  Eswarapu, member of The Indus Entrepreneurs Amaravati (TiE Amaravati) said TiE was launched recently with the sole aim of accelerating the growth of the start-up ecosystem in the state. “The state government committed a venture capital of funding Rs 100 crore to TiE Amaravati, which can can identify quality   in the state and push them to the next level. There will be a global summit by TiE in Mumbai in February 2018 to discuss more about its objectives,” Ravi told TOI.
 
 K  , principal secretary to the department of IT, Government of AP, said they were conducting conferences and summits in Vizag city as part of government efforts to guide start-ups in the city. Regarding financial support, the government has directed the collectors of all districts including   to take initiatives as a mediator by co-ordinating with bankers and start-ups to meet financial requirements. 
 
 “The start-ups firms which need financial support can now directly go to the collectors to get their help. The collectors can help them by guiding them to financial supporters like banks,” Vijayanand said.
 
 According to sources, the city has nearly 100 start-up firms, but only around 15-20 start-ups are working earnestly on their respective projects in fields such as agriculture, health, education, retail, financial services and food.
 
 Ravi said a start-up can be launched by anyone, including school dropouts. “Start-up is an idea that has commercial viability. Initially, for two to five years, the start-up entrepreneurs should work hard on their product in order to get attention from buyers or venture capitalists,” Ravi said.
 
 
