PANAJI: With all kinds of study material at their fingertips, thanks to the internet, students in the state should sit for as many competitive examinations as possible, including the civil services, without any fear of failure, said IAS officers Ameya   and Ashutosh  .

 They were speaking at the recently held 5th edition of the Luis de Menezes Braganza lecture series on ‘approach of Goan youth towards civil service examinations’. Both the civil servants were of the opinion that students are now being offered a level-playing field and only by appearing for more examinations would they be able to build their confidence. However, both of them agreed that more awareness needs to be created in the state about these examinations. 
 
 Abhyankar is IT secretary and the chief executive officer of the   Society of Goa, while Pednekar is the commissioner, college education, and secretary, higher education,  .
 
 After preparing for the UPSC examinations one’s chances of excelling in other competitive examinations increases manifold, said Pednekar. A civil servant for 16 years, Pednekar currently oversees about 70 universities and 2,100 colleges in Rajasthan. 
 
 Since Goa sees a large number of youth migrating for jobs, there is a willingness among them to move outside the state for better employment opportunities, Abhyankar said, adding that civil service examinations present tremendous opportunities waiting to be tapped. 
 
 When a student asked about the often talked-about bribe required to get a government job, Abhyankar said UPSC examinations are “absolutely incorruptible”. The few things required are merit, diligence, dedication and perseverance, he said, adding that one shouldn’t go by rumours.
 
 Pednekar told the students not to find excuses for not appearing for the examinations. 
 
 “The UPSC, the staff selection commissions, the state public service commissions, many of them are   standards of examinations. Don’t give excuses to yourself. These examinations are fair and if you work hard, you succeed,” he said. The job presents one with many opportunities to serve people as well as grow as a person, he said.
 
 
