Erode/Madurai: The death toll in the forest fire incident has increased to 12 as Divya Vishwanathan, 28, who was undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Madurai died on Wednesday evening. Her husband Vibin Damodaran, 32, who was one of the organizers of the trekking trip, which ended up in a tragedy in Kurangani hills, had died on March11.  Divya was a native of Kinathukadavu in Coimbatore. She married Vibin, an avid trekker and cyclist from Marthandann in Kanyakumari, a couple of years ago and settled down in Coimbatore. Divya had sustained 90 percent burn injury and was rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai city after being rescued from the incident spot. She was later shifted to the private hospital, specializing in treating burns victims.  Meanhile, the Theni police arrested another organizer of the trekking event in Erode. The organizer D Prabhu, owner of Tour De India Holidays at Sengodampalayam near Thindal in Erode district, was arrested by a special team for taking trekkers illegally to the reserve forest in Bodi range, confirmed Theni district SP M Baskaran. Prabhu used to take trekkers from Erode and Tirupur districts. “He used to pick his customers through Facebook regularly,” said a senior official from Theni police, on condition of anonymity. This time, he had taken 11 trekkers from Erode and Tirupur districts. Followed by the wildfire that killed 11 people in Kurangani Hills in Theni district, the K Vilakku police in Theni district picked up Prabhu for questioning. During inquiry, the police came to know that he took the trekkers to Kolukkumalai, which is a banned reserve forest for trekking. According to forest officials, the trekkers can be allowed only in few forest areas for trekking.  “They will not be allowed in the reserve forest area at any cost,” said a forest official. He added Prabhu had paid Rs 200 per head to the forest department for trekking. “As per the entry fee, he can take the trekkers only in the specified pathway and not into the reserve forest,” the official added. According to the K Vilakku police, Prabhu’s team reached Kurangani in a van on March 10. A local guide Ranjith joined and took the team for trekking around 9am on the same day. They reached Kolukkumalai around 6 pm on the same evening. “They found a team of another 26 people led by Arun from Chennai at Kolukkumalai,” the police said. On the morning of March 11, all the trekkers went to a tea factory at 9.30am. Meanwhile, three women reached Suryanelli in a jeep after they could not walk in the forest. All the team members had their lunch at Othamaram area. At the time, Ranjith got the information about the forest fire following which he alerted all the trekkers to get down soon. “He also led all the trekkers through the reserve forest where they were caught in the fire,” the police added. During inquiry, the K Vilakku police came to know that Prabhu had charged Rs 3,200 per head for adults and Rs 1,600 for children less than 12 years. After questioning Prabhu, the K Vilakku police had released him to go to his native town Chennimalai on March 13. The Erode district police had also inquired him on the same day. Meanwhile, a four-member special police team came to Erode on Wednesday and arrested Prabhu for trespassing in the reserve forest. The special team took him to his office in Sengodampalayam and inspected his office. Baskaran said Prabhu was on the way to Theni from Erode when he was arrested. “After completing the formalities, we will produce him before the judicial magistrate,” the SP said.