CHENNAI: The state police on Wednesday received an alert from the Intelligence Bureau on a plan by protesters, aiming to make a point on the   issue, to use drones to greet   Narendra Modi with black flags when he arrives in Chennai on Thursday.

 The IB alert said certain fringe groups intend to kit out hobby-sized drones with black flags that would unfurl once they are airborne and launch them along the Prime Minister’s route as he makes heli-hops to DefExpo-18 and across the city.
 
 Senior officers quickly responded to the alert. They warned the leaders of these groups against the plan, saying the city police would construe the use of drones for such a protest as a breach of the Prime Minister’s security and would take serious action against anyone putting the plan into action.
 
 Flying drones in the city is illegal without prior police permission.
 
 “We have taken serious note of the alert,” a senior police officer said. “We have advised police personnel to stop anyone from using unmanned aerial vehicles.”
 
 A special team will carry out air surveillance from the air traffic control towers at the city airport and at the Tambaram Air Force Station, the officer said, adding that at least 32 SPG personnel have sanitized places in Chennai on Modi’s itinerary.
 
 After commissioner   held meetings with senior officers on security arrangements for the PM’s visit, the city police were on Wednesday night preparing to put in preventive detention protesters they identified via CCTV camera footage of demonstrations over the past week and picketers involved in the disruption of Chennai Super Kings’ IPL 2018 opening home game on Tuesday.
 
 But the police plan to monitor the skies to thwart a possible   protest was met with some scepticism by some experts.
 
 “It’s not easy to detect drones in the air with radar signals because of the difficulty in distinguishing them from birds in flight,” said K Senthil Kumar, assistant professor of aerospace at  .
 
 And the Chennai police will have more on their hands than unmanned aerial vehicles. All major parties, except for the AIADMK, propose to unfurl black flags to make clear to Modi their displeasure with the Centre for delaying the formation of a Supreme Court-mandated Cauvery board.
 
 Tamilaga Vazhvurimai Katchi leader Velmurugan told reporters that his party members plan to send up huge black balloons and carry black flags to show their disapproval to Modi.
 
 (With inputs from Karal Marx)
 
