GURUGRAM: A 52-year-old woman was stabbed to death with a sharp weapon by an unidentified person in broad daylight in Sohna on Monday. 

 The accused entered her house in the morning, when she was alone. Her husband, a tailor, found her lying dead, when he returned home from his tailoring shop. Their dog was locked inside a room. Police have lodged an FIR and are, for the moment, looking for people known to the victim.
 
 According to police, the woman, Krishna, was murdered sometime between 9.30am and 12noon, at   colony in Sohna. Other members of the family included her husband,   (55), son and daughter-in-law. The family, which hails from UP but has been living as tenants in Sohna for over 15 years, had moved in to this accommodation four months ago. On Monday, both her son and daughter-in-law were out of station.
 
 Chiman Lal called his wife on her mobile phone around noon, to enquire about his lunch box, which Krishna usually delivered around the time, but she didn’t take the call. 
 
 Alarmed, the tailor rushed back home, to find his wife’s body lying in a pool of blood near the main entrance to the house, her ‘nightie’ torn, evidently in a scuffle. 
 
 Chiman Lal called police, who arrived to take the body in custody and send it for post-mortem. They noted that there were stab injuries on her neck from a sharp weapon and more injuries from a blunt object on her head. 
 
 “My son and his wife had left for Ballabhgarh on Sunday. I had left my wife at home with our dog in the morning. When I returned, she was lying dead, while the dog was locked inside a room. I demand the accused be arrested immediately,” said Lal.
 
 Based on his complaint, an FIR was registered against unidentified accused under Section 302 (murder) of IPC the at Sohna (city) police station. “The cause of murder is yet to be ascertained, but  , the involvement of someone known to the victim can’t be ruled out. A special team is probing the matter,” said  , ACP (Sohna).
 
 Cops said the victim was mother of six children — five daughters and a son — who are all married. Cops are waiting for the post-mortem report to understand if she had suffered a sexual assault before being murdered.
 
 
