Bhopal: Senior BJP leader and former Union finance minister Yashwant Sinha is staging a sit-in outside the collectorate in Narsinghpur district in support of farmers, who are protesting the proposed NTPC plant in the district.  Sinha, who came out in open against the BJP government at the Centre and states, is staging a sit-in for more than 24 hours braving cold weather. On January 12, too, Sinha had protested along with farmers of Gadarwada tehsil of the district and submitted a memorandum to the district administration giving 15-day ultimatum to concede their demands. On February 1, the former Union minister reached Narsinghpur and began his protest outside the office of the district collector.  “The protest is still on. Earlier, a memorandum was submitted by Yashwant Sinha and other farmers, wherein it was demanded that jobs be given to farmers whose land was acquired for the plant at Gadarwada, appropriate compensation should be provided under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana against crop damage and Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana should not be implemented,” district collector Narsinghpur, Abhay Kumar Verma told TOI, adding one more demand that cases under the SC & ST Act, which were lodged against 17 farmers be taken back. After protests on January 12, preventive action was taken against 39 farmers. Of these 17 were booked under the SC & ST Act. The protesters were informed their memorandum has been forwarded to the concerning authorities, but they are still protesting.”  Talking to TOI on phone from Narsinghpur, Sinha said he stood by his demand and refused to meet the CM in this regard. “The issue had been raised from time to time and the state government was in the know of it,” said the former Union minister.  In 2012 and 2013, around 1,200 acres of land from 405 farmers of six villages — Chor Barhata, Mehrakheda, Umaria, Dongargaon, Kudari and Gangai was acquired for construction of NTPC thermal power plant. Farmers have been demanding job for the land acquired along with compensation. Last year, a local leader organised a farmer’s rally demanding jobs. Since then, other leaders joined the protesters, who upped the ante on the issue.  Aam Admi Party (AAP) state convener Alok Agarwal will join protest on February 3. 