KOLKATA: Tram services might come to a complete halt in  , thanks to the ‘unbridgeable divide’ between the  .

 The only surviving link between the network got snapped due to the construction of East-West Metro’s Esplanade station at Curzon Park. Because of the snapped link, trams plying in south Kolkata cannot access the central workshop at Nonapukur for emergency overhauling.
 
 The lack of repair work is leaving the ageing fleet at problems almost frequently and a complete breakdown of the fleet is imminent in future. The trams plying in the north Kolkata, however, can access Nonapukur workshop for emergency servicing.
 
  
 “Unless the access is restored, all the trams plying in south will go out of service as we don’t have the mechanism to service them at depot,” said a WBTC official.
 
 Trams operating from Kidderpore, Tollygunge, Kalighat can no longer come to Nonapukur workshop. While EW Metro snapped the northsouth link for trams operating out of the three depots, trams from Gariahat also cannot reach Nonapukur workshop because the tram-overhead wire was snapped for the construction of west-bound ramp from Maa elevated corridor to AJC Bose Road flyover.
 
 “Most of the trams are very old and require periodic servicing. The local depot has limited repairing facility, which cannot prevent frequent breakdowns and complete dysfunction. Its been a years since the trams plying in south Kolkata could not access the Nonapukur Tram depot,” said a tram company officer.
 
 Earlier, trams operating in south Kolkata could access Nonapukur from Rashbehari Avenue and Gariahat Road but that link was snapped after the Gariahat flyover came up. This left just the Esplanade-Lenin Sarani-Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road-Eliot Road as the only recovery route.
 
 “We had mentioned about the issue while handing over our operating zone to KMRC. We also asked for permission of lying a line along the periphery of Curzon Park for rebuilding north-south link. They assured us of obtaining Army permission and Kolkata police clearance for the same. But they never fulfilled the promise,” said a tram official.
 
 Some major tram routes were suspended because of Mahakaran Metro Station, which left the nine tram routes abolished for at least five years and left six routes with truncated services. KMRC has offered Rs 11crore as compensation for revenue loss. KMRC is supposed to spend an additional fund of Rs 9.5 crore for creating loops for requisite diversions.
 
 
