In the latest episode of  ,   begins to think of   looking at his hand, that she held in office. He curses himself for thinking about her constantly. He decides to go and meet her. But is unable to find his black jacket.

 Just then,   enters with the divorce papers. She gives it to Raman, who is in a hassled state. When he is about to sign, Raman recalls what Ishita had told him. He stops and asks Simmi about the papers. When she is not able to come up with a reply, Raman doesn’t sign them. This leaves her furious.
 
  then enters Raman’s room with tea, which falls on his hand. He is furious at Shanoo for being careless. He also stops her from washing his hand since it’s the same hand that was held by Ishita. While they are talking, Raman also reveals how he didn’t sign the papers that were given to him by Simmi. Shanoo is happy to hear this but gets emotional.
 
 Downstairs, Shanoo begins to cry as she feels sad at Raman’s state. She decides to expose Simmi and   without waiting any further. She overhears Simmi’s conversation with her husband and enters her room after she disconnects the call. She informs Simmi that Raman refused to wash his hands after the tea fell on him. She further tells her that she can use black magic to avert her control over Raman and coaxes her to reveal what she mixes in Raman’s food.
 
 Simmi refuses to believe her at first but then she decides to reveal the truth. However, Param enters in time and foils Ishita’s plan. He scolds Simmi for trusting an illiterate girl like Shanoo. She realizes her mistake and decides to keep everything to herself.
 
  fears meeting   and hastens her steps towards the building. However, Nikhil continues to tease her, which leaves her stressed and worried. While Raman is about to leave, Shanoo asks him to drink tea. Raman scolds her for calling him as it is not considered a good sign. She then tries to distract him by spilling water on him. After Raman goes to change, she wonders how she can be at two places the same time.
 
