JAIPUR: The Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI) on Friday lodged three FIRs in connection with the encounter killing of notorious gangster  , the violence which followed in Sanvarad in Nagaur district, and riots and unlawful assembly at Churu’s Malasar after the fugitive’s death.

 But the CBI has not lodged any FIR claiming that Anandpal’s encounter was fake.
 
 In the FIR related to rioting, unlawful assembly, wrongful confinement and kidnapping at Sanvarad, CBI has named Rajput leaders, including Shree Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena president Sukhdev Singh Gogamedi, Hanuman Singh Khangta, Shree Rajput Karni Sena president Mahipal Singh Makrana, Anandpal’s daughter Chinu and his lawyer A P Singh.
 
 Along with them, 12,000 unnamed people have also been charged for rioting and unlawful assembly.
 
 This FIR was lodged by Shambu Singh Shekhawat, the then in-charge of Didwana police station of Nagaur. The incident at Sanvarad on July 12 started as a condolence meeting for Anandpal and allegedly turned violent. In the FIR, the police have alleged that Rajput leaders, Chinu and A P Singh made inflammatory and provocative statements, which resulted in the mob going out of control and turning violent.
 
 On Saturday, TOI received copies of FIRs lodged by the CBI. All FIRs are based on original FIRs lodged by the special operations group (SOG), Nagaur police and  , father of 33-year-old Surendra Singh who died in Sanvarad violence on July 12, 2017.
 
 The first FIR is based on the FIR lodged by additional SOG SP  , in which the SOG has described how they first nabbed Anandpal’s brother, Vicky, and his cousin, Gattu, from Palwal in Haryana. During their interrogation, they found that Anandpal was hiding at the house of   at Malasar village in Churu.
 
 It details the chain of events on June 24, 2017, when the SOG team raided the house at Malasar and gunned down the gangster.
 
 “It also provides information on how many rounds were fired by 21 policemen, from Nagaur SP Rahul Baharat to circle officer Vidhyaprakash, Kuchaman and others who were at Malasar village in Churu. The list also includes three Haryana police officers, including IPS officer   who was present at Malasar,” said an officer of the Rajasthan police, who lodged the original FIR at Ratangarh police station after the encounter.
 
 Anandpal is named as the main accused in the FIR, which also includes Shravan Singh and his six family members. All of them have been accused of unlawful assembly, voluntarily causing hurt to public servant and preventing him from discharging duties, harbouring an offender whose arrest has been ordered.
 
 The third FIR is on the alleged killing of Surendra Singh, a native of Malasar, who was killed in Sanvarad violence. His father Kalayan Singh has alleged that his son was eliminated by the Sanvarad police as he was witness to the fake encounter of Anandpal.
 
 
 
