NEW DELHI: At a time when the Indian cricket board ( ) has started focusing on women’s cricket, under-19 girls from   have been forced to brave the severe heat wave in the Capital, which barely gives them much training time at the moment.

 
 
 
 The camp has put BCCI’s planning under scanner. The girls were asked to report on May 23 for a three-week camp at the   which concludes on June 12.
 
 The practice sessions have largely being planned to dodge the heat. The girls start from their hotel at around 5.30 in the morning and have to wrap up their training by 9 AM. On Tuesday, they were back at the hotel by 9 AM. For the evening session, they reach the ground at around 5.30 pm and finish by 7 p.m. 
 
 “They can barely practice their cricket skills. By the time they warm up in the morning, temperature starts soaring and they can only have a nets session of around one and a half hours. In the evening, they do very light drills. To have a camp here at this time of the year doesn’t make sense,” a source close to the development told TOI.
 
 
 
 
 The girls even stayed back at the hotel (a five-star facility) on Saturday to see if they could do some training at the hotel gym and pool. “Unlike the boys in our country, who start slogging from a very tender age, these girls are relatively new to the grind of professional cricket and are still learning the basics of cricket. To put them through this kind of grind is unreasonable,” the source added.
 
 TOI understands that certain quarters in the board also believe that the camp could have been planned better. “There was a paucity of venues. We struggled to find a good time for these girls. Even at other camps like in Una, we faced the same complaints of heat wave. We had to start somewhere. We will work out a better plan,” a top BCCI official told TOI, adding the board was looking to have exclusive wicketkeeping and spin-bowling camps for women cricketers.
 
 
 
 The board is keen to tap talent from these U-19 camps to form India A sides.
 
 “That’s why we are having such young girls. This is the first time North-eastern states are having separate zonal camps. There is no India U-19 team for girls but we need a big pool for the senior level,” the official informed.
 
