COIMBATORE:There are neither visible holes nor underground fissures at Selvampathy lake. But water in this lake — once called Ottakulam — gets drained as quickly as it is filled, to the amusement of even the smart city consultant, who is planning to revamp city lakes. Ottai in Tamil means hole.

 According to the public works department, the lake was earlier called Ottakulam because of the strange phenomenon.
 
 Eighty-year-old Pachiamma, who has been staying next to the lake for the last 40 years, said thorny bushes thrived when she came to the area. “Later, Naickers cleared the place and began farming. We were agricultural labourers in their fields. I have seen it myself. Water would never stay in the lake. It fills up as water from Vadavalli and Veerakeralam flows into it. But, within a few weeks, the water level would go down drastically. One could see the cracks on the floor of the lake distinctly,” she said.
 
 Seconding her is 90-year-old R  , who says she was born in the village. “These lakes were all named after women. Muthanan Kulam after Muthamma, Selvampathy after Selvamma nicknamed Ottakulam, Krishnampathy after Krishnamma and Narsampathy after Narasammma. Water would overflow from one lake into the other. But, what was strange was the water from Ottakulam would drain into Muthanan Kulam and all lakes would have water but not Ottakulam,” she told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, city corporation engineers attributed the phenomenon to the peculiar nature of the soil in the lake.
 
 An official of  , the private consultant working on the smart city project, said they came across the term during field research. “In public works department record, the lake was called Ottakulam till 1972. May be the soil here has low percolation threshold,” said architect   with the firm.
 
 Public works department engineers told TOI that   near Perur also did not retain water for a long time. “While all other lakes would have water, this lake near Perur would always be dry,” said a senior engineer.
 
 R Manikandan from Kovai Kulangal Paadhugaapu Amaippu, said that the phenomenon at Selvampathy has more or less ceased after sewage and industrial effluents formed a layer on the lake floor in the recent years. He urged the civic body to set up a committee for lakes to carry out various studies on percolation and other systems.
 
 
