MUMBAI: A 24-year-old first-year   suffered bleeding in the brain and inside his ears, a rib fracture and an eye injury after he was thrashed for nearly 30 minutes inside a moving car in Powai by a group of youths upset with him for having knocked down their bike a couple of days earlier.

 Five youths were arrested on Monday for the attack on   which landed him in Nulife Hospital, Ghatkopar, on February 28. 
 
 The two youths knocked down by his car are among those arrested, police said. They are on the lookout for three more accused. And though Divecha has been discharged from hospital now, he will need two weeks of rest before he can go back to normal life, doctors said.
 
 The case should have ideally come to a close after the road rage incident but for the elaborate plan hatched by the bikers to track down Divecha, lure him to a spot in Powai’s Hiranandani Complex with the help of chats on social media and then kidnap and beat him up.
 
 At 2pm on February 26, Divecha was on his way to his Vikhroli (W) home in his Wagon R from the institute at Ghatkopar (W) where he is studying. “Accidentally, my vehicle brushed a bike,” he said.
 
  The pillion rider fell and suffered minor bruises on his hand. I apologized, yet the two persons on the bike assaulted me. I managed to escape somehow that day,” Divecha told Powai police in his complaint.
 
 The next day, Divecha got a ‘friend request’ on a social media networking site from a girl who identified herself as Harsha Joshi. “I chatted with her. She communicated at length with me by claiming she knew me through one of my friends and also that I was doing my MBA.” After some chats, they decided to meet in Powai, and the girl asked Divecha “to get a chocolate bar once he reached Hiranandani Hospital so she could easily identify him”, a police officer said.
 
 At 6pm on February 28, Divecha reached the spot and was walking towards a medical store after parking his car when five men got hold of him and pushed him into a Honda City with tinted glasses. “They drove the car around for around 30 minutes, constantly punching me. Unable to take the blows, I told them I would die as I was an asthma patient,” he told police.
 
 The assailants then got worried and, stopping close to a medical store, bought an asthma pump. The idea, police said, was to resume assault once the pump had had its effect. But Divecha told them “if the pump does not match specifications given by my doctor, there are chances of me dying”. At this point, they panicked and stopped the car at an under-construction site the victim could not identify. Divecha was then taken out of the car after his two mobile phones and Rs 22,000 in cash were snatched, and one of the accused mounted a bike and dropped him back at the spot near Hiranandani Hospital from where he had been kidnapped. Divecha somehow managed to drive home, narrated the incident to his parents and approached cops.
 
 It is still unclear how the assailants got to know of Divecha’s identity. A police officer from Powai said, “We are probing the matter. Prima facie, we suspect the accused may either have seen the victim’s identity card during the road rage incident or recorded his car number and done a recce.”
 
 The five accused—mastermind   (21), Mukesh Verma (20), Devendra Pradhan (19), Santosh Sarvade (30) and Sagar Kadam (19)—were arrested with the help of the description provided by Divecha and images of the golden Honda City captured in the CCTV cameras at two spots inside Powai’s Hiranandani Complex. Police are probing which two of these five were on the bike knocked down by Divecha’s car.
 
 DCP (zone X) Navinchandra Reddy formed a team comprising Powai senior inspector Anil Pophale, inspector Balwant Deshmukh and some detection staff to probe the case. They scanned CCTV footage and zeroed in on Kamble, who lives at Parksite, Vikhroli (W). The car is registered in the name of his elder brother, who claims to be a political party worker. Kamble’s arrest led cops to the other accused. 
 
 Doctors at Nulife Hospital said Divecha was admitted with multiple injuries. “The injuries were severe,” said a doctor at the hospital. While Divecha was conscious and recovering when he went home, the doctor said, “He has been suffering from giddiness. It is likely to remain for a couple of weeks. An injury or bleed in the brain can cause swelling, which in turn can compress the nerves and give rise to giddiness.” Divecha will not require any surgeries or advanced intervention for the brain injury, though. “It will resolve on its own through medicines. Even the rib fracture will not need aggressive management,” the doctor added.
 
 
