JHARGRAM: Sounds incredible, but the ruling Trinamool Congress could not find polling agents in 12 booths in   which went to poll on Monday. The party has been muscled out by a fledgling tribal organisation —   — with no previous political background, but has the blessings of tribal spiritual leaders, whose writ still runs in the tribal heartland.

 
 “Handpicked Indepenedent candidates under the banner of the Mancha are contesting in all the 128 gram panchayat seats in Belpahari. The local Majhis and Marwas selected candidates from within the community and issued a diktat to everyone to support them,” said  , disham paragana (the head of the Majhis and Marwas) of Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal. “We are not supporting any party or block. The idea is to have locals running the local bodies, so that they can deliver more. Why would leaders in Kolkata or Delhi decide our fate? There is nothing wrong in it,” he said.
 
 
 Since early in the morning on Monday, the Mancha supporters guided the voters to the polling booths. One among them, Bablu Murmu, said: “Ours is not a political party. Our primary aim is to help our candidates win the local body seats. People here do not believe only in doles. We want work.” So, the poll results, many feel, could reshape the political contours of this zone once again after 2011. Belpahari had been a Maoist hotbed since the ’80s and backed Mamata Banerjee in the 2011 assembly polls.
 
 
 Trinamool sources, however, pointed out that   has been able to put up candidates and campaign even in the remotest areas of Belpahari. BJP’s Jhargram district president Sukhomoy Satpati admitted: “We have been able to put up candidates in zones where we had not contested before. We did not face any resistance from the locals. In fact, in some pockets, the support has been overwhelming.” A senior   leader, refusing to be named, said: “The traditional CPM tribal support base, the   community, has aligned itself with the BJP. This is particularly evident among the young people. This is helping the BJP, but weakening us.”
 
 
 Trinamool sources believe that the Mancha has elements who were part of the now-disbanded PCPA, led by Chhatradhar Mahato. The party has already inducted his wife Niyati in their campaigning and is mulling a job-offer for his eldest son. Trinamool’s West Midnapore district president   said, “We had some problems in filing nomination in some booths in Belpahari. In the April 23 window provided by the HC, we had tried to make up for it. We did have some problems here, but we are working to overcome it.”
 
 
 Ahead of the elections, chief minister Mamata Banerjee reached out to the tribal leaders — including Hembram. Her efforts stopped the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal from issuing any political diktat in favour of any party, but this didn’t stop the local tribal leaders from doing it at the ground level.
 
