LUDHIANA: The warden at   was arrested while trying to smuggle in almost 300 intoxicating pills in his turban inside the jail on Tuesday midnight.

 He was caught red-handed during checking when he was about to join his shift (12am to 6am). The warden, identified as   who has been booked by division number 7 police, was suspended with immediate effect on Wednesday.
 
 On Tuesday night, the jail staff frisked him when he reached the jail to join his duty. The official’s unwillingness on frisking made the jail staff suspicious. They took him to a room for thorough checking. It was then the jail staff found a packet of 292 intoxicating pills hidden in his turban.
 
 The staff immediately informed the senior jail officials who sounded the police.  , deputy superintendent, Central Jail, said, “Jagroop Singh has been serving as a warden in Central Jail, Ludhiana, since 2000. He was caught with intoxicating pills last night for which he has been handed over to the police. Taking stern action against him, the department has suspended him.”
 
 On asking about his possible involvement in providing weapons, drugs and mobile phones to jail inmates, Tiwana said, “The matter is under investigation.” The arrest of jail warden with intoxicating pills has not only raised eyebrows but has given weight to allegations, levelled by jail medical officer Dr Swarandeep Singh, who has accused the jail staff of providing weapons, drugs, mobile phones to the inmates.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (IV)   said the police will investigate for how long the warden was involved in providing intoxicating pills to inmates. The police will also verify his role in previous such recoveries.
 
 Jail medical officer Dr Swarandeep had filed a civil writ petition in the Punjab & Haryana high court accusing the jail officials of being involved in several malpractices and irregularities. In October 2017, head warden Roop Singh was suspended while show-cause notices were issued to another on-duty officer when a watercooler filled with the packets of tobacco made it to the jail. Besides, several mobile phones and sharp-edged weapons had been recovered from inmates.
 
 
