LUDHIANA: As many as 7,186 students from 509   in the district have flunked in Class XII exams under   (PSEB) result declared on Monday. Importantly, among these 2,165 students are from government schools. 

 A total of 10,822 students of 187 government senior secondary schools in district appeared for Class XII exams. Among these 10,822 student, 1,526 students have got compartment while 639 students have failed. 
 
 However, the pass percentage of the entire district is 78.56% which is far better than previous year’s record that was 63.97%. 
 
 While some school principals have blamed the non-availability of teachers, others have held wrong marking as the reason behind the poor results.
 
 Importantly, there are 12 such schools with have pass percentage bellow 50%. These schools include Sanmati Government College of Science Education and Research, Jagroan with 31.81%, while Government Senior Secondary School, Rajewal Kuliyewal with 20%, Saheed Rajinder Singh Government SS School, Jassowal Kular with 19.29%, GSS School Khanpur with 38.23%, GSS School Nathowal with 46.15%, SSBM Government Senior Secondary School Noorpura with 40%, Government Senior Secondary School Barsal with 40%, Government Senior Secondary School, Halwara with 43.47%, Government Senior Secondary School Jhoraran with 46.93%, Government Senior Secondary School Pakhowal with 49.59%, BM Government Senior Secondary School, Raikot with 43.03% and Government Senior Secondary School Guram with 48%. 
 
 As per the information, 15 students of Koomkalan school appeared for chemistry exam out of which only one passed whereas seven have failed and seven have got compartment. Further, eight students of same school appeared for Physics exam out of which seven have failed. Further in Humanities 54 students had appeared in Class XII exam in this school out of which 38 have passed, 10 have failed while six have compartments.
 
 The principal of Koomkalan school, Joginder Kumar said, “The reason of poor result in Physics and Chemistry is that our teachers get transferred. We hired private teachers for students on PTA (parent teacher association) fund. But, it was of no use.”
 
 Further in Government Senior Secondary School, Pakhowal, 87 students appeared for Political Science exam out of which 21 failed and three got compartment. In this school, 153 students appeared for exam out of which 70 passed and 53 failed. In Pakhowal school, four students appeared for Maths exam out of which three failed. 
 
 The school principal Balbir Kaur said, “Majority of the students who have failed are those appearing in exams for second or third time. We have one students who is 23-year-old and has taken admission in class XII for the third time.”
 
 In Government Senior Secondary School, Hussanpur, 17 students appeared for Science out of which nine failed and one got compartment while seven have passed. The school principal, Mandeep Kaur said, “Even we are shocked with the result as even our bright students have scored just passing marks. We are going to make them file for re-eveluation.”
 
 The science teacher Hussanpur school said that the board declared result within one month which was a hasty step. There are bound to be several mistakes in checking, she said.
 
 
