PUNE: The parking policy for the city was tabled before the general body of the   on Friday with six suggestions, including the abolition of night parking charges between 10pm and 8am and its implementation on five prominent roads on pilot basis.

 A proposal was also tabled to constitute a committee, including the mayor, deputy mayor, leaders of the parties in the Pune Municipal Corporation ( ) and heads of the departments, to conduct a detailed study on the six suggestions. It will submit a report to the general body in six months. The discussions were on till going to the press.
 
 The BJP, having a clear majority in the PMC, tabled the policy before the general body three days after the standing committee sanctioned it. The basic document of the policy sanctioned by standing committee had suggested night parking charges. 
 
 The night parking policy was largely criticized by the NCP, Congress, MNS and the Shiv Sena. The parties claimed that it was not in favour of citizens and would put additional financial burden on people. 
 
 On Friday, the workers of these political parties held strong protests in the PMC building. The security was beefed up on the campus. The entry-exit gates were closed to maintain law and order. 
 
 The BJP on Thursday had held a meeting of the party corporators to discuss the policy and possible suggestions to be tabled before the general body with the policy document. On Friday, deputy mayor   tabled the suggestions to abolish the night parking charges and its implementation on five prominent roads. 
 
 The other suggestions were preparing a detailed report on the status of reserved plots for public parking, a plan for developing multi-storied plots on BOT basis, use of revenue generated from parking charges only for development of parking facilities and for public transport.
 
 The NCP corporators said the administration should focus on traffic management instead of implementing the policy. There was no need to put forth the policy haphazardly, they stressed. 
 
 
