The election of   as US President has cost the   - a real estate firm owned by the family - a huge sum of money in "opportunity cost",  , the President's son, told TOI. The company is not signing new deals with business partners outside the US as long as Trump remains in office, to avoid potential ethical conflicts, explained Trump Jr. "We are refraining from doing new deals while my father is in office. We are turning down deals worth hundreds of millions of dollars around the world,'' said Trump Jr, on a week-long visit to India to launch projects that were signed before his father's election.

 The Trump Organization had built a huge pipeline of deals through intense marketing and negotiations over a decade. But they cannot be inked now. "It costs us quite a bit of money in terms of lost opportunity," Donald Trump Jr told TOI in an interview.
 
 Adding that the Trump Organization was looking at India in the long term, he said India was a better place to do business than China. "As a businessman, I feel things here are substantially more above board... the mentality of the people is the same. I think there is probably a little bit more honesty," he said.
 
 With reforms underway in the country, its attractiveness will further improve, which would help attract investments from countries like the US, he said. "I am not a newcomer, I have seen changes during the last decade, certainly over the last couple of years," he said.
 
 Asked whether the negotiated deals in the pipeline would remain when Trump Sr demits office, he said, "If he remains in office for seven more years, I don't know whether those deals would remain on the table.'' But, he said, he would use the period to foster relationships with partners here, which is important for doing business.
 
 The Trump Organisation has licensing arrangements with Indian developers like M3M and Tribeca to build a super luxury residential project in Gurugram in NCR in the price range of Rs 5.5 crore-11 crore. Trump Jr is here to launch the project. Trump Jr said they already had signed a deal with Ireo in Gurugram to construct a commercial project. He said the project would be launched in the middle of this year.
 
 Trump Jr, who will later this week share the stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a business summit here, said that his company is very conscious of maintaining the value of its brand.
 
 
