CHANDIGARH: Drawing parallels between Panjab University (PU)   and Mahabharata, Chandigarh   chief Sanjay   on Sunday said that what was happening in the House, while deciding the quantum of punishment for an assistant professor found guilty of sexual harassment, was no less than the second cheer haran (disrobe) and some senators have turned blind like Dhritarashtra.

 Tandon’s fierce speech came after some senators said the professor had “only” verbally abused the complainants and has not indulged in any kind of physical harassment, so, the quantum of punishment should be decided as per the degree of his offence. Perturbed by the comments made by some senators, Tandon said, “Among all the opinions, I found a bizarre opinion that states the assistant professor did not not touch anybody. Are we waiting for him to commit a bigger offence like that? I am ashamed to see this. People should go home and talk the same in front of their mothers, daughters and wives and they will get rebuked by them. Some people are trying to protect the accused from the last three hours by saying that we should consider the condition of his family and send him for rehabilitation.”
 
 Senate member   said she had a daughter and would feel hesitant to send her daughter to a university where such incidents take place. However, senate member   said, “Don’t take the decision in haste. The set of allegations made is that he had made verbal comments. So, if any person makes verbal comments, whether the punishment is major or minor, will he be removed from the service? The proportionate punishment should be given as per the degree of offence committed. Taking his job is too harsh a punishment against the allegations leveled. Chaped mardi tussi, kisi nu life sentence nahi de sakde. Unni saza do jinna une offence commit kita hai. (Punish a person in proportion with his wrong doing).”
 
 Mehta further added, “The complaints received in this case are verbal in nature and nowhere the accused was involved in any kind of physical harassment. The punishment should be given as per the degree of offence.”
 
 However, referring to a complaint of sexual harassment against the son of an employee of the university, holding an important post, Mehta said that the VC had a biased approach in dealing such cases. The PUCASH, in this particular case, had found the complaint to be false.
 
 Other voices 
 
 We need to instill confidence in the students so that they can come forward and file the complaint. In the recent case of the dental students, we interacted with the students and they admitted they did not have the courage. In this case of the public administration department, three students on record said they were intimidated to take back their complaints. This is where we are going? If this is the case, we should not have PUCASH. We can have a small body on the campus, who can deliberate things and send the report. We need to instill confidence in the students and take PUCASH report seriously | Rajat  , senate member and PUCASH member
 
 The report of the PUCASH was submitted on December 7, 2015. Already the act has been violated and the committee had clearly said action should be taken within 60 days. Let us move this resolution so that there is no more discussion on this matter. A decision should be taken | Pam  , senate member 
 
 
