If you thought the swimming pools of Gurgaon were only used by triathletes and competitive swimmers, you are in for a big surprise. The toddlers of Millennium City have taken over the pools. Kids as young as one are being introduced to swimming by their parents. Coaches say such queries have increased manifold in the last few years, and the concept of swim training for toddlers is quickly gaining popularity in the fitness-conscious city.

  
  Advik, four, and Kenisha, two, with swimming coach Manisha Khungar (location courtesy: Club Florence, Gurgaon)
 
  The swimming season started barely two weeks ago, and Gurgaon-based swimming coach Manisha Khungar says she has already received four requests for swimming lessons for toddlers. “I don’t even get those many requests as I mainly teach adult athletes, so only those who know me personally approach me. But overall in the city, the queries have increased manifold in the last few years,” she says. According to coaches in the city, they now see twice as many requests and queries from parents of toddlers for swim coaching as compared to 2-3 years ago. “However, more enquiries have not resulted in a similar increase in number of enrolments,” says Manisha, adding, “This is because parents trust only a few coaches, who have limited time.” 
  
  
 
  Parents of these swimming prodigies say they are starting their kids early in the world of swimming as they are better learners at that age. Parul, a Golf Course Road resident, who has gotten her two-year-old daughter enrolled for swim coaching, says, “I wanted my daughter to start early because I read that children are better swimmers when they are young and it is a well-known fact that at this age, they are quick learners.” For most parents, it is not about creating the next Michael Phelps, but just enabling their child to learn an essential life skill.   resident Siddhanth Singh Chauhan started taking his daughter to the pool when she was barely nine months old. He tells us, “The earlier we start, the better it is for kids to learn. My daughter is almost two years old now and she is fairly comfortable in the water. In fact, she looks forward to her swimming sessions. It is not about getting her prepared for competitive sports at this age because you can’t teach her the strokes right now. For now, it is just about getting her to learn a skill that everyone should know.”
 
  
  
  The trouble with training toddlers training in Gurgaon is that the demand is much higher than the supply as several coaches are hesitant to take in kids younger than six. Rajat, a swimming coach at a city pool, elaborates, “Younger kids require full attention and more time. You have to hold their hand and teach them how to float too. Then, it is a big responsibility because kids that young are at a greater risk in water. Even though parents accompany these kids, many coaches and trainers in the city do not want this kind of responsibility.”
 
  
  
  To counter this shortage of trainers, there are those who have taken matters into their own hands as well. Swimmers and triathletes from the city are trying to teach their kids themselves due to the dearth of coaches in the city.  , a multiple   finisher and triathlon coach, has only recently started training his 16-month-old son. He tells us, “Since I know how to swim and I train athletes, I feel equipped to teach my kid too. He has been in the pool twice till now and it is looking great. This generation is lucky because nobody did this for us. This way, at least they will be spared of the paani ka darr that we all had as kids because we didn’t start swimming until very late.”
 
  
  SWIMMING IS FUN
 
  But self-coaching hasn’t worked for everyone too. “There is one major drawback in this. My son sees me as his father, and as his friend – not as his coach. So, he does not take me seriously, which is why I feel having a coach is better. This year, I hope I can get him trained under a proper swimming coach whose authority he will respect,” says state-level triathlete and Ironman finisher Nagender Singh, who started training his son after he turned three last year.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
