AHMEDABAD: The bitcoin extortion case is getting murkier with   now probing not one but two kidnappings of bitcoin extortion, say sources. While the current case was in February 2018, the previous extortion and kidnapping was supposedly committed in mid-2017.

 CID crime is now probing how the current victim Shailesh Bhatt came into possession of the bitcoins that were extorted from him by some Amreli police personnel, said sources in the agency. They said that in the earlier case, three persons impersonating income tax officers had extorted 750 bitcoins worth around Rs 40 crore from an investment company of Surat.
 
 Speaking about the earlier case, a senior CID official said, “Apart from the bitcoins, the kidnappers also extorted another Rs 12 crore from a key person employed with Surat investment company.”
 
 CID crime officials said in a case of mistaken identity, the kidnappers had first picked up an office boy of the Surat company. “They realized their mistake after holding the guy for three days and beating him black and blue. Later they picked up the managing director of the company,” said an investigator.CID officials said the MD of the Surat company had left the country long ago after investors losing their money in his company.“However, sharing of the money among the kidnappers led to the story being leaked. The details somehow reached Amreli as the kidnappers belonged to the district. It is then that Amreli SP  , police inspector Anant Patel and some politicians came into the picture. We are still probing whether the case is of plain extortion or a shakedown for extorted money,” said an investigator.CID crime sources said that a lot of phone activity had already started between the complainant Shailesh Bhatt, his partner Kirit Paladiya, Ketan Patel, Anant Patel and others.“During the probe it has come to light that former BJP MLA from Dhari, Nalin Kotadiya, had called up Kirit Paladiya during the wee hours of February 11 to ask whether he is coming to Ahmedabad or not”. This was the day when Kirit and Shailesh Bhatt were allegedly kidnapped and taken to Keshav farm for extortion of bitcoins said a CID crime official.Sources said prior to the kidnapping, there was a meeting between inspector Anant Patel, advocate Ketan Patel and his brother  .
 
 “It is also clear that no bitcoins were transferred on that day. But prior to the alleged kidnapping of Shailesh Bhatt and after it, some bitcoins were certainly transferred from the e-wallet of Kirit Paladiya. Paladiya is being interrogated for the past three days,” said an investigator.
 
 
 
 
 CBI inspector Sunil Nair who was posted at Gandhinagar had told CID crime investigators that he did know Kirit Paladiya but had nothing to do with the kidnapping and extortion of Rs 5 crore as alleged by Shailesh Bhatt. “CBI had transferred the officer after conducting a confidential internal inquiry. However, during the alleged period, Nair and Paladiya were in touch and about Rs 50 lakh did change hands. We are probing who had received the money,” said a CID crime official.
 
 CID reports to  
 
 Investigators probing the bitcoin case have reported the inventory found from Amreli SP Jagdish Patel’s house, said sources. “We have urged ACB to probe whether a case of disproportionate assets can be made out against Jagdish Patel or not. Subsequently, as it is an alleged case of transfer of money, Enforcement Directorate could also come into the picture,” said a CID crime official.
 
 
