Rough weather struck north India on Tuesday, as forecast by the Met department, bringing dust storms and rain at many places in the plains and rare late-season snowfall in the higher reaches of the Himalayas that left at least 2,500 pilgrims stranded near the Kedarnath shrine.

 
 The Kedarnath yatra was halted on Tuesday morning following 3 inches of snowfall in the Kedar valley. Among those stuck along the 16km trek route to the Himalayan shrine were former Uttarakhand CM   and Kedarnath MLA Manoj Rawat. According to the district emergency operation centre, over 2,200 pilgrims were halted at  , 200 at Lincholi, 350 at Gaurikund and 60 at Bhimbali.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “Due to bad weather in Kedarnath, most devotees have been asked to stay in Sonprayag and wait for the pilgrimage to resume. They are being accommodated in hotels and guesthouses,” he said. Gangotri and   in Uttarkashi district received up to six inches of snowfall on Tuesday, with temple priests at both shrines claiming that this was the first time in eight years that snowfall had occurred at this time of the year. But unlike Kedarnath, snowfall did not disrupt the yatra in Gangotri and Yamnotri. State Met department director Bikram Singh said snowfall in May was unusual and a “rare phenomenon”.
 
  
  
 
 
 In Himachal Pradesh, snow, hailstorms and rain lashed many parts, with reports of damage to crops, blocked roads and landslides in some areas. Devastating hailstorms in Shimla district damaged apple crop and a thick white sheet of hailstones was seen across the city. At -0.3°C, Keylong in Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest inhabited place in the state.
 
  
  
 
 
 The Met department in Delhi said thunderstorms were observed at isolated places over Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, among several other places in the rest of the country.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 In Rajasthan, high velocity winds with light showers lashed many cities, including Jaipur, early Tuesday morning.
 
  
  
 
 A mild dust storm later in the morning prompted Jaipur district collector to send a direction to schools to send children back home by 10am. No untoward incident was reported from the state. However, the Met department issued a fresh storm warning in isolated places in the state for next 24 hours.
 
