PATNA: The conviction of RJD national chief   and acquittal of former CM Jagannath Mishra in the fourth fodder scam case evoked mixed reactions from political parties of the state on Monday.

 Lalu was on Monday convicted by a CBI court in Ranchi in the case involving excess withdrawals from the Dumka treasury during his chief ministership of undivided   in the 1990s. The court will on Wednesday announce the quantum of punishment for Lalu, who is currently recuperating in the Ranchi Institute of Medical Sciences.
 
 Ruling JD (U)’s state president   wished well for Lalu’s recovery from ill health. 
 
 Lalu’s wife and former CM Rabri Devi said she was expecting a good news. “But what has to happen, happens. We respect the court. Laluji was ill and yet brought to the court. I will not comment on the court order, but this is not the end of the road. Let us see what we can do,” a visibly dejected Rabri said.
 
 Lalu’s elder son and former minister Tej Pratap Yadav, otherwise known for his brash statements, also sounded subdued as he reiterated that his father was falsely implicated in the fodder scam cases. “It is not proper to comment on the court’s ruling. We will move the higher court, and we hope to get justice after all,” he said.
 
 However, few other RJD functionaries were quick to read the “game” behind Lalu’s conviction and Mishra’s acquittal. “It is strange that in the same nature of case, two people are sentenced differently. Jagannath Mishra has been acquitted, but Laluji has been convicted. Everyone understands why it is being done. This game is being played by PM Narendra Modi and the BJP,” former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh said.
 
  spokesman and MLA   also said Lalu had fallen victim to politics of vendetta.
 
 However, JD (U) state spokesman   said corruption could not be allowed. “Lalu’s conviction and incarceration will not impact Bihar politics,” he added.
 
 The BJP’s reaction was equally lacerating. “The only place for corrupt people is the jail. We welcome the court’s ruling,” labour resources department minister Vijay Kumar Sinha said.
 
 
