SURAT: The   ( ) under the Union ministry of shipping has started the process to finalize detailed project reports (DPRs) for the development of National Waterways (NW) in   and Narmada rivers of Gujarat. 

 The IWAI hosted a stakeholders’ conference for the development of national waterways in Gujarat in the city in the presence of Union minister of state for road transport, fertilizer and shipping   on Saturday. 
 
 Officials said technical feasibility reports were carried out for rivers of Gujarat, including Mahi, Narmada and Tapi, which indicated that the waterways were technically viable. The feasibility reports in these waterways are being followed up by second stage study for preparation of DPRs, which are at the advance stage of finalization. The feasibility report for river Sabarmati has indicated that it is not a viable waterway for transportation of goods. 
 
 The first phase of NW development in Tapi will have passenger ferry service starting from Dumas to the downstream of Singanpore. The second phase will include development of NW in the upstream of Tapi from weir-cum-causeway to Ukai reservoir. The first phase project cost is estimated at Rs 107 crore. 
 
 Addressing the conference, Mandaviya said, “The inland water transport (IWT) band coastal shipping can play a critical role in pushing the nation’s growth. I have seen the progress of work at Varanasi and Haldia multi-modal terminal on NW-1 in river Ganga. By 2022, we will finish the NW1 capacity augmentation.”
 
 Mandaviya added, “Tapi and Narmada are being developed for inland waterways transport in Gujarat. IWT is the safer, cost effective, environment-friendly and almost accident-free mode. It will help remove pressure on road as around 140 truckloads of goods can be shipped on one 2,000 tonne vessel.”
 
 The Union minister said the Modi government has spent close to Rs 1,200 crore in the last three years for development of IWT in India. The work on all the 111 NWs are being carried out with utmost focus. In the year 2018-19, eight new NWs have been planned for development, including rivers Tapi, Narmada, Ajoy in West Bengal, Alappuzha-Changanassery canal in Kerala and river Amba, Revadanda creek etc. 
 
 The stakeholders from giant industries in Hazira raised many questions related to NW development in Tapi. The key factors, which may affect NW development, were presence of weir-cum-causeway at Singanpore, heavy silting in downstream of Tapi, low-level railway and other bridges etc.
 
 
