BENGALURU : The high court on Friday directed the   to submit a status report on completion of works related to remodelling, construction, maintenance and desilting of the city’s 842km-long stormwater drains (SWDs) by March 15.

 “It’s your duty and you have to do it in accordance with law,” a division bench headed by chief justice   observed, while asking BBMP to indicate the progress made after January 22, when the civic body had submitted a status report before the court. On works being completed along 177km of SWD over the last three years as mentioned in the BBMP status report, the bench noted that the figure doesn’t indicate substantial progress.
 
 
 In its status report, the BBMP had indicated that works on the 177km-long SWD have been completed at Rs 1,367 crore and claimed work on another 192km is under way at Rs 1,100 crore. The   said 60% encroachments on SWDs have been removed.
 
 The court is hearing a PIL filed by  , which had moved the court in 2014 seeking various directions to the civic body such as carrying out total desilting of all SWDs and also installing sewage treatment plants at the head of each SWD, before the water is let into the lakes.
 
 Prison deaths: HC asks state to settle compensation
 
 The high court on Friday directed the government to settle compensation in cases of unnatural deaths in prisons where there are no disputes.
 
 A division bench headed by chief justice Dinesh Maheshwari noted that pendency of proceedings before the   (SHRC) does not come in the way of the state government taking any measures.
 
 The next hearing on the suo motu PIL, registered by the court based on the apex court’s direction, is fixed for March 13.
 
 Earlier, the government advocate told the court that of the 48 unnatural deaths reported in various state prisons between January 1, 2012 and October 31, 2017, 31 were suicides and compensation was awarded in only one case as per directions of SHRC. Regarding compensation in other cases, he informed the court that 22 cases are pending before SHRC.
 
