Actor Huma Qureshi was recently in Bengaluru to deliver a talk to college students. We caught up with her after the event, where she revealed her familiarity with Bengaluru, her experience on the sets for   and how she thinks social media time needs to be controlled. Excerpts...

 
 
 Bengaluru is like second home to me. I’ve a lot of family and friends here. I’ve great memories here. I am aware of places like Koramangala, Jayanagar, Banashankari and a lot of other areas. I’ve stayed here and hence I am familiar with the local areas, the hideouts and food. I think the nightlife in Bengaluru is amazing. I love this city. 
 
 
 
 My first Tamil film is Kaala and I’m very excited to work with (Rajinikanth) sir. I can’t wait for the film to release. I remember my first day with him on the set, we were doing a camera test for the film and did some pictures together. He was, of course, very sweet and humble and a thorough gentleman. 
 
 
 
 I’m just lucky to work with the people I have worked with. I’ve always worked with some really talented co-stars. Whether it is Varun Dhawan, Nawazuddin, Akshay Kumar, Madhuri Dixit or  , I’m just blessed that I’ve worked with such amazing and talented people and I think working with them has made me a better performer. 
 
 
 
 I’ve never bothered about my image onscreen. I do work that inspires me and makes me happy. I didn’t become an actor to worry about my image, I came here to act. I can play a different character every single time. I’m a very shy person, so sometimes I feel that the things I can’t do as Huma, I can say or do as a character. So I can say it as a Haseena or a Jhimli or a   now in Kaala, so I can become another person. This is what I love about acting. 
 
 
 
 There have been different films and different journeys and each has its own special place. But I think Tamil was difficult, because I didn’t speak the language, but I had amazing help from the cast and crew. My associate director on the set, Jenny, in particular was wonderful and I wouldn’t know how I would have shot for this film without her. They understood that I am an actor, but it is a new language for me. So to be able to think, emote and express in another language was a task, but they were really helpful. And also Zareena is a very complex, nuanced character. I’m very superstitious about these things, so I will stop before I reveal more. 
 
 
 
 You learn a language over at least a year. To learn A, B, C, D is one thing, but to express, emote and think in it is another. Since I am a theatre artiste, I used this exercise called gibberish and applied the principles of that to Kaala and it worked beautifully. 
 
 
 
 I just block the ones who troll me. There is enough toxicity and hate in the world anyway, so I don’t need that kind of stuff around. When it comes to my social media, I handle it on my own, I don’t like managers and people handling it. It is my one communication with my fans, with my people who have given me so much love and made me who I am, so I keep it very simple. I express if I am reading a book or travelling or am eating something nice. I don’t put too much thought to it, it is just my window to my fans. I spend about an hour on social media. I’m currently struggling to get myself to stop checking my phone every five minutes. I want to keep a stipulated time for that because constantly looking at the phone takes away from the conversation you’re having. I’m going to try soon, it is my promise to myself. I want to do this, because people are not talking to each other anymore. There is no social interaction. You go out for coffee with friends and everyone is on their phones or they are posting pictures of their coffee or croissants without even eating it. Eat it first, it could be the most pathetic croissant or sandwich in the world, but no they have to use a nice filter and apply the latest app to beautify it on social media. This is where I feel the realness is going away in life and interaction. 
 
 
  
 
 
 I love food. I live food. My motivation to travel to a new place is to check out the amazing food that I can have. In Bengaluru, I love Bisi Bele Bath, Puliyogare and Lemon Rice. I can cook too, but I am very selfish. I cook for very special people in my life, I don’t cook for everyone. I don’t even cook for myself. I make kheema. I am a good mutton cook, as it requires a lot of cooking time and prep time. So it really feels like a meal, like you have done something. My cooking has to be an event. I’d like to put on some music and cook the whole day and eat at 3-4 pm. That’s my kind of perfect cooking. 
 
 
 
 Someone recently called me saying we’re making this film and its in a south Indian language and are shooting it in London with some fancy technicians. We were initially making it for the south, but since we have our set there, we are making it in Hindi too. They asked me if I could come in 15 days and start shooting. I was startled, given how they wanted things so quick. Agreed, it was a female-centric subject and they were ready to pay well, so I called for the script. It was awful, so I made some excuse and got out of it. Then, after 20 days I got a call. We have cast someone, but we don’t like her. Can you come tomorrow and begin shooting? That was really strange.
 
 
