VELLORE: Tension reigned across Anaicut town and Devichetti Kuppam village following the brutal   of a former   councillor by a former   councillor and his aides in the Anaicut block development office (BDO) on Saturday. The police attributed the murder to enmity between the two over securing government building contracts. However, within an hour, the police secured the murderers near Alangayam and took them into custody for interrogation.

 Both the victim, G Mahindran, 50, and the murderer, C Manimaran, 47, native of Devichetti Kuppam panchayat, were former councillors. According to the police, the murder took place around 11 am.
 
 Manimaran and five others, who came in a car, stormed into the BDO office with weapons in search of Mahindran. They hacked him to death in the BDO office after he ran into the computer room on the first floor of the building, said Vellore superintendent of police P Pakalavan. “It was a vengeance killing. The duo was harbouring enmity due to competition in securing government and private building contracts,” Pakalavan said, adding that special teams were constituted to arrest the murderers.
 
 On March 20 this year, Mahindran, two of his sons and three others attempted to murder Manimaran, who sustained serious injuries and was admitted to hospital. While Mahindran got bail, his sons and three others were arrested and lodged in prison in the attempt to murder case, which was registered by Veppankuppam police. “Manimaran was admitted to the ICU at a private hospital in Vellore. He was discharged a week ago. Since then, he had been looking for an opportunity to eliminate Mahindran,” said a police official privy to the investigation.
 
 On seeing Mahindran riding a motorbike alone, the former DMK councillor along with his associates tailed him. Mahindran had come to the BDO office in connection with a contract he had secured to build a community hall, said the SP. However, within an hour of the murder, the police intercepted the car in which the murderers were escaping. “We alerted the police in the district and passed on the vehicle number. They were stopped near Alangayam and arrested,” said the police official.
 
 The police sent the victim’s body to   for postmortem and also deployed police personnel in the village to prevent any untoward incident.
 
 
