There is no such thing as paranoia. Your worst fears can come true at any moment. 

 — Hunter S. Thompson
 
 Call it paranoia or by any other name, but it’s this feeling of dread that has done the impossible: for residents of south-east Kolkata, currently in the grip of a diarrhoea outbreak, it’s united rich and poor. And anyone’s worst fears might, indeed, come true any moment.
 
 Residents of plush condos along the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass, who pay nearly Rs 1 lakh a month to purchase filtered   from the civic authority, have turned to packaged water fearing contamination in Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s (KMC) supply line. It’s the same at middle- and lower-middle-class homes in Patuli, Bagha Jatin, Santoshpur, Kasba, Haltu, Madurdaha and Mukundapur, though they can ill afford to spend money on water that they have always enjoyed for free.
 
 Mantu Pramanik, who lives in a slum on Santoshpur Sixth Road, hadn’t ever bought packaged water. The very thought of paying Rs 20 to purchase a litre of water was preposterous. But since early this week, he has taken to buying bottles.
 
 “I still cannot afford to spend my hard-earned money on water. But I am doing so as there is no alternative. If I risk drinking piped water and fall ill, I will be unable to drive the auto for several days. That will mean loss of earning in addition to spends on medication,” Pramanik reasons.
 
 Suman Das, who earns his wage under the 100-day job scheme, has had to cut down on his daily intake of vegetables to make provision for water. And it’s not just Das and Pramanik. Thousands who live in the enteric belt have turned away from water supplied by KMC, despite assurances from the mayor and health officials. Detection of coliform bacteria in a sample of water collected from the Bagha Jatin locality has only vindicated their fears.
 
 KMC’s community taps in these neighbourhoods which, till last week, witnessed jostling during supply hours and were social hubs have fallen silent. A precious resource that people collected in bottles, cans and buckets every morning and evening now flows unimpeded, as there are no takers once buckets for washing and bathing are filled.
 
 The mistrust over KMC-supplied water is no less in plush apartment complexes along the Bypass. Most of the residents switched to bottled water the moment they learned that people in the region had taken ill. Spooked by the possibility of water contamination, the residents’ association at Ruchira Residency, the first housing project to get a dedicated water supply line against commercial payment, rushed to get the water tested. There was immense relief when the report turned out negative. But most residents still continue to buy packaged water.
 
 “There was uproar in a neighbouring society about the water. We knew it would happen here as well and decided to get the water tested. We couldn’t afford to ignore the problem. In case the water was contaminated, we would have to make provisions to empty the three underground and 12 overhead tanks and decontaminate them,” said Ruchira Residency president Nibir Dasgupta.
 
 Though the other complexes — Rail Vihar, Samadrita, Avishikta I & II, and Greenwood Nook — have not got the water tested, the supply to them are unlikely to be contaminated as the pipeline is a dedicated one which serves only these housing complexes. Manab Chakraborty, a senior official in the state government who stays at Rail Vihar, considered himself fortunate that the recent water-borne disease could not enter his housing complex via breached water pipes in the locality. “We had decided to help KMC bail us out from water crisis by agreeing to pay for a dedicated water pipeline which would not only guarantee abundant water but also its quality,” Chakraborty said.
 
 A section of KMC officials, however, apprehend that in an area that is socio-politically so diverse, the gap between the haves and have-nots could result in turmoil. “Reports of water theft are not new now. During the peak summer months, we sometimes have to lodge complaints with police stations to stop water pilferage. Now, the enteric disease will widen the gap between inhabitants of slums and residents of big housing complexes,” said a KMC water supply department official.
 
 
