ZIRAKPUR: Despite several complaints to the government of Punjab and local municipal council in past seven months, the wait of the   residents to get rid of the commercial and residential   in the area has yet not come to an end. 

 The residents had taken up the issue with the public grievance cell of the government of Punjab portal, seven months ago. They were also assured that their complaint has been duly registered and action will be taken upon it soon. But, nothing has been done till now.
 
 Karamjit Singh, a resident of  , said after Prime Minister   said that any kind of grievance can be submitted on the Mann Ki Baat portal, a complaint was made there too. However, it evoked no response from the other side till date.
 
 As per the records, on April 22, 2017, the residents submitted a complaint on the government of Punjab portal, following which they got a reply that the complaint will be dealt by the local government department. However, according to Karamjit, till date, none of the officials from the Punjab government had made any visit to the site for action.
 
 During a visit to the area, it was found that there are four pockets where the slum dwellers set up their houses. These places were close to   I, Solitaire, Kadhanu and Dhasmesh. Residents said they complained about this to the authorities as well as the area councillor but to no avail. In fact, in the commercial area, the shopkeepers have extended their shops from the earmarked land, due to which serious parking problems have cropped up. People have now started facing a lot of trouble on a daily basis.
 
 R K Dhiman, one of the residents, said the senior citizens had to stop their evening walks due to the encroachments in the market area. He said while in Chandigarh he used to go for a walk to Sukhna Lake. However, ever since he has shifted to Dhakoli, he has stopped going for one due to traffic chaos in the market.
 
 President of unified resident welfare association   said the authorities have assured them that these encroachments will be removed from the area soon. For this, the deputy commissioner office has also given its approval. But, due to non-availability of the adequate police force, action is pending till date, he said.
 
 In the dock
 
 The issue is in the knowledge of the deputy commissioner (DC) as the council had written to her long back. We will hold a meeting with the DC in which I will raise this issue and request her to speed up the removal of encroachments in the area as the residents are pressing for it for a long time.
 
 Kulwinder Sohi | President,   municipal council
 
 
