NEW DELHI:   was the occasion for the   to   an   in which the party underscored as being in   with the   who were recently   by the Election Commission for holding  . The appeal for funds was sent out to 1.5 lakh donors on the party data base, and contributions have started rolling in.

 While appealing for donations, the party chose to describe the poll panel’s decision on the MLAs as “unjust”, and invoked colonial history on the day commemorating the Constitution of India coming into effect. In the letter, written in first person by a composite AAP volunteer, the party said that when the British left, “everyone believed we had achieved freedom, freedom from tyranny, freedom from being made helpless, freedom from divisiveness and hate”. It continued, “Today, 68 years after that momentous moment we are left reeling with that same feeling of helplessness.” The letter argued that the chief election commissioner had disqualified the AAP MLAs “without even a hearing — just like the British did with our freedom fighters”.
 
 The Election Commission has been refuting AAP’s claims saying that its MLAs were given two notices on a possible hearing, but they hadn’t sought one. AAP rebutted this by citing the June 23 notice that stated a future date of hearing “would be intimated” to the party. The MLAs’ appeal against their disqualification is slated for a hearing in Delhi high court on Monday. 
 
 On Republic Day itself, 700 donors responded to the appeal, with the average offering being Rs 650. AAP hopes to collect Rs 6 lakh and more from this campaign. The party’s IT and social media head Arvind Jha disclosed that since September last year, AAP had been carrying out these donation drives, and ever since, the number of monthly donors had gone up from around 200 to 1,800-2,200 now.
 
 The appeal letter said the disqualification was akin to the helplessness of someone unable to get his passport cleared until he bribed the passport officer. “That is, till AAP stood up for my rights and your rights, to change the system,” the letter claimed. For good measure, it quoted AAP national convenor and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal as saying, “All good people have to come together in this fight. It is the fire within us that can only change the fate of this country.”
 
 The letter also explained that the donation drive was a way “to show solidarity with the 20 bravehearts and lend our voice against their disqualification”.
 
 
