COIMBATORE: Over 5,000 cadres of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam ( ) conducted a one day hunger strike at Gandhipuram on Tuesday to condemn the Union government for failing to constitute the Cauvery management board (CMB). About 70% of business establishments in the city downed shutters in the morning hours in solidarity with the protest. Police arrested as many as 300 Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and   cadres for staging protests near the Coimbatore airport and income tax office.

 Several AIADMK protesters were seen taking shelter under the Gandhipuram Flyover from the scorching sun. Municipal administration minister SP Velumani, who addressed reporters, said that AIADMK MPs stalled Lok Sabha for more than 18 days seeking constitution of CMB. “But, opposition parties are calling it a drama. We don’t need to stage a drama. AIADMK is the only party working for the welfare of the people of  . We will continue our fight till the Union government forms CMB,” he said.
 
 DMK has no right to blame AIADMK over the issue as the party was in power between 2006 and 2011 and was also controlling the Union government, Velumani said. “During its tenure, DMK failed to form CMB. Now, they are making noise,” he said.
 
 MLAs PRG Arunkumar,   K Arjunan, Sulur Kanagaraj, VC Arukutty, Ettimadai Shanmugam, OK Chinnaraj, Kasthuri Vasu, former mayors SM Velusamy and Malaravan along with several AIADMK functionaries participated in the hunger strike. Meanwhile, a group of AIADMK members were seen having soft drinks and snacks from bakeries. Some had queued up in front of a Tasmac liquor outlet.
 
 Meanwhile, a group Naam Tamilar Katchi members staged a protest in front the income tax office on Race Course. City police prevented them when they tried to enter the office premises. Some of them were seen lying on the road and raising slogans against the Union government. Police arrested 36 of them.
 
 Lawyers from the   boycotted the court proceedings to condemn the Union government. They staged a protest in front of the Integrated Court Complex and raised slogans.
 
 Police arrested as many as 97 DMK cadres, who were on the way to conduct a protest in front the airport, at SITRA Junction. They were kept in a marriage hall. Police also removed about 156 DMK cadres, including 66 women, who staged road roko on   near  .
 
 Cadres from DMK and Muslim Munnerta Kazhagam attempted to besiege the Coimbatore Railway Junction in the evening. Though police tried to stop them, some of the protesters managed to enter the first platform and sat in front of Raptisagar Express. Police arrested around 240 cadres. The train left the station 30 minutes late following the commotion.
 
 Several business establishments including hotels, bakeries and medical shops remained closed across the city on Tuesday morning. Most of them reopened in the afternoon.
 
 
