CHENNAI: The cholera contagion that affected five patients at a private hospital this week may have come from abroad, but the cases have set off alarm bells in the food safety department. Its first target will be illegal water packaging units that have sprouted across the city.

 Officials are mapping areas where these units are thriving, with many situated near   which is a gateway for water cans entering the city from factories in Tiruvallur. The district, along with Kancheepuram, takes up 80% of the share in the packaged water sector that caters to Chennai.
 
  
  
 
 “Most of these unlicensed units are run by vendors who refill bubble-top cans multiple times before sending them back to the manufacturing units,” said a food safety officer who seized a few such containers from a retailer in   last week. The vendor was caught selling untreated groundwater in cans for Rs 10 for 20 litres.
 
  
  
 
 There are around 620 licenced water brands operating through nearly 4,000 dealers in Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. Besides different stages of filtration, a unit requires clearance from the state pollution control board and a licence from the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS). However, a dozen bubble-tops and a reverse osmosis system are enough to start an illegal water packaging unit. 
 
 TOI visited one out of three such shops on Tiruveedhi Amman Koil street in Arumbakkam where six such cans are sold a day. The containers, which have no labels, are sold at Rs 10 to nearby residents, mostly slum-dwellers. The shopkeeper, who identified himself as Mani, said he had procured the water from a dealer in Virgumbakkam. When contacted, the dealer, who identified himself as the proprietor of ‘Ganalakshmi packaged drinking water’ based in Poonamalee said he had not supplied water to Mani for two years. When asked where he sourced his water from, he refused to respond and hung up. The food safety officer in Tiruvallur has no packaged water unit named ‘Ganalakshmi’ in his record.
 
 TOI also recently visited a dozen such unorganised units in Mannady, George Town, where people sell water in unlabelled cans. The units procure untreated groundwater from private suppliers who pump water from wells near Red Hills. Water vendors have also set up shop near   selling a 1-litre bottle of untreated groundwater water for Rs 3. Vendors offer ‘boiled water’ for Rs 5 per litre to those visiting government general hospital and Government Hospital for Women and Children, Egmore. 
 
 Officials said while contamination of water sold by licenced manufacturers happens while filling and packaging, other violations, including misbranding, repeatedly reusing containers, happen at the distribution point. “We found that a lot of these bubble-tops are filled manually by ill-trained workers,” said the designated food safety officer in Kancheepuram, where around 10 units were sealed last year.
 
 Manufacturers said most of the violations happen at the distribution point. “Only 10% of the manufacturers directly market the water. Most of us engage middlemen,” said N Murali, patron, Tamil Nadu Packaged Drinking Water Association. The stickers on the cans may be of one brand, but the water inside could be of another, or worse, it could be just tap water, he said.
 
 
