VADODARA: President   on Monday paid rich tributes to Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III – the visionary ruler of erstwhile Baroda state for his contributions in the field of education. He even said that there was impression of Sayajirao’s vision in Constitution whose architect was Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. 

 The President was in the city for the 66th annual convocation at M S University along with first lady  ,   governor O P Kohli, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, state education minister   among other dignitaries. 
 
 He said that while governments are still struggling to fully implement compulsory education for all, Sayajirao had made education compulsory even in those days when the social fabric was not good, which was a big achievement. 
 
 Quoting Sayajirao, he said that the best form of government is government which is run by the people and the people must be educated to realise to safeguard their interest so that they could realise their responsibilities.
 
 “This shows that his vision was not limited to education but also for imbibing the spirit of social responsibility,” he said, adding that Sayajirao also used to admire constructive criticism. 
 
 “We are presently living in democracy where PM, CMs, MPs and MLAs are accountable to the people. But in those days, there was monarchy. Yet, he realised that it is his responsibility,” he said. 
 
 “He (Sayajirao) was not answerable to people but he definitely knew that he is accountable and answerable to his inner consciousness,” he said, adding that he gave a new direction to the country and MSU is an example of his vision. 
 
 He also said that the stature that Ambedkar achieved was due to Gaekwad family. 
 
 “We call Babasaheb architect of India’s Constitution. You can see impressions of Sayajirao’s vision in this Constitution,” he said. 
 
  ‘I stand for women reservation’
 
 Vadodara: Talking about achievements of girl students, President Ram Nath Kovind said that girls of M S University had clearly outshined boys as of the total   medallists, 171 were girls while 92 boys. 
 
 “Yesterday, at Gujarat University (GU) also, I was informed that girls had outnumbered boys. It is a matter of pride not just for Gujarat but for entire country as it is a sign of the progress that our country has made,” he said. 
 
 He said that at GU’s convocation on Sunday he had shared a joke that if the same trend continues, a day will come when demand of women empowerment will become irrelevant. 
 
 “But please make a note that I completely stand for women reservation,” he said, sharing how women achievers were recently felicitated at Rashtrapati Bhavan. 
 
 
