Ludhiana: Perturbed over the supply of contaminated water in many villages in Punjab and some cities in Rajasthan, environmentalist Baba Balbir Singh Seechewal has criticised the officials of Punjab Pollution Control Board and municipal corporation Ludhiana for their failure to solving the problem of polluted water of Buddha Nallah. The water of   is getting mixed with the Satluj river and in many villages residents are forced to drink the water which causes cancer.

 Seechewal was in the city on Saturday to check the functioning of a sewerage treatment plant and treatment of domestic waste water but to his surprise the Balloke sewerage treatment plant was only 35% functional. He claimed that the 152 MLD capacity plant was totally closed and the 105 MLD capacity plant was partially functional. 
 
 He said the government spends crores on these STPs but these are totally useless because there is no treatment of domestic water. He said if treated properly, the water can be used for irrigation but first of all chemicals coming from the dyeing units need to be controlled. 
 
 Seechewal said drain can be treated but authorities have to first stop direct discharge of effluents from dyeing units and untreated water of domestic waste along with a check on garbage dumping inside the drain. He said drain water is falling inside the Satluj which is further being used by people for various activities.
 
 “Even the treated water should not be thrown inside any drain because it is not legal,” said Seechewal while citing the condition of the villagers in Rajasthan where people bring water from a distance without realising they are consuming slow poison. He said he is keen on helping the authorities in the interest of the people, but there is a need for the authorities to take action against the defaulters. 
 
 Seechewal also held a meeting with the PPCB chairman Kahan Singh Pannu over this issue. Pannu said the industry problem will be solved in the next few months as they have received a Rs 15 crore grant from the government for the installation of a common effluent treatment plant but STPs are to be managed by MC only. On the other hand, MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said there is no issue with the Balloke STP but in case there is any problem, it will be checked. 
 
 Seechewal raises question marks on NEERI
 
 Seechewal said local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu met him in Kartarpur and also organised meetings with the scientists from NEERI, but even they had no concrete solution to the problem. problem. He said they were insisting that pollutants of drain can be checked with the help of some mesh but when he raised the point that during heavy rainfall, the mesh will be damaged, they had no answer. 
 
 
