MYSURU: Varuna has turned into a battlefield for the   and   Both young men are yet to get tickets, but have already started campaigning.

 With the backing of his father Yeddyurappa, B Y Vijayendra on Tuesday launched his campaign from Rampura, the same village where his Congress opponent Yathindra Siddaramaiah launched his on Monday.
 
 Though Vijayendra insisted that he is campaigning for the party, his roadshow in the hinterland of Varuna is a clear indication that he could be fielded by the BJP. While his candidature is expected to be announced in the second list scheduled later this week, Vijayendra did not wait, and went ahead with his campaign formally.
 
 As Vijayendra checked into Rampura, he was extended a warm welcome by the villagers, who were ecstatic with the Lingayat community leader. BJP poll managers picked Lingayatdominated pockets in the constituency for the roadshow, which rolled into 13 villages. Villagers welcomed him with Nandi Dhwaja, which is traditionally used during festivals.
 
 The BJP leader touched the feet of elders and sought their blessings. He asked them to open their hearts to him and promised to focus on their needs. He also targeted sitting MLA CM Siddaramaiah, saying he was trying to divide the people and had discriminated among them while taking up development projects. Though he speaks about social justice, he is anti-Dalit, he claimed.
 
 He spoke about his father’s three-year rule and asked people to support the BJP’s vision. He spoke about the NDA government’s schemes and welfare programmes. He will continue his tour on Wednesday, touring 20 villages, starting with Basavanapura.
 
 Facing Dalit trouble
 
 Meanwhile, Yathindra continued his tour of the segment for the second day in a row, with roadshows and street corner meetings.
 
 Though he was scheduled to launch the roadshow at 9.30am, he changed it to a meeting with Dalit leaders from the constituency, which he had convened at a private hotel in the city. As the meeting began, he had a tough time controlling a section of Dalit leaders, though it later went off peacefully.
 
 The meeting was closed to the media. The leaders were not willing to share the reason for the tussle between their community members and the Congress workers. Sources claimed that Dalit leaders attended the meeting, irrespective of their party affiliations.
 
 Yathindra later hit the hinterland on his campaign trail.
 
 
