 can convincingly transform into any character — white, black or grey. He has never been fascinated by stardom; for him, the only thing that matters is the sheer joy of facing the camera. With Hansal Mehta’s 'Omerta' just around the corner, BT met the National Award-winning actor to know what it took to play one of the darkest characters of his career (Ahmed  , a dreaded terrorist), what he’s learnt from his mistakes and why it’s important to be fearless as a storyteller. Excerpts…

 
 Hansal sir (director  ) had told me about this film while working on ' ' (2013). At that time, however, he had someone else in mind for the role. During one of our last collaborations, he told me that he wanted to revive 'Omerta' and asked me if I would be interested in being a part of it. This character is extremely villainous, evil and dark. I have never explored something outright dark in my career, and this film offered me a great opportunity to do that. 
 
 
 Yes, it can get very difficult to slip out of the mindspace of a character like Omar. It took a whole lot of work for me to come out of his mental space because it took me a lot of effort to slip into it. But I have no complaints, because this is what an actor’s job is. We’re supposed to become different people at different times. It took me over two months to prepare for the role. I travelled to London, learnt his language, read up on his life and the articles written about him. I tried to understand him as much as I could. Physical transformation was also required, because Omar is a strong man. So, I muscled up and also grew a beard, because that’s a part of his look. Once everything was in order, we started shooting. The good part is, when I work with Hansal sir, though we have a script, we don’t plan too much. We do everything organically on the set. 
 
 
 I don’t take up films thinking about the future. Hansal sir and I have made films like 'Aligarh' and 'Shahid' and we don’t think that we have to play it safe to pass the censor table. As creative people, we have to speak our hearts out and fight our battles. Also, 'Omerta' has been screened at many film festivals, where it has received great feedback. While I don’t deny that it might incite questions, it may also provoke people to question certain things. As long as it starts a conversation, making a film on a sensitive subject is a great idea. It would be worrisome if the film failed to evoke a reaction in the audience. 
 
 
 It’s the film’s makers who face the heat. As actors, we work in three-four films a year and by the time one movie is up for release, our focus has already shifted to the next project. It was disheartening that 'Aligarh’s' trailer got an A certificate and could not be played on channels during prime time. But then, that’s how it is. You still have to go ahead with your conviction and make the films you want. And there’s a way out — you can approach the Tribunal and the higher ups, if need be. No filmmaker needs to compromise on the kind of work he or she wants to do. You just have to be prepared to fight your way through.
 
 
 It has on one or two occasions, but nothing’s perfect. You have to learn from your mistakes. In hindsight, I think those mistakes happened because I was influenced by someone or something. The mistakes have taught me to never get influenced by any external factor.
 
 
 (Cuts in...) I love what I do. For me, a film set is the best place to be in. As long as I am acting, it doesn’t matter whether I have faced rejection. I don’t even think of it or talk about it, because I don’t carry my past as a baggage. Neither am I futuristic; I don’t think about where I will be five years from now. This is life. Yahaan sab kuch hota hai. Rejection is also a part of it. 
 
 
 I feel comfortable everywhere and with everyone. It’s human to feel out of place, let’s say, at a social gathering where you don’t have anyone familiar around you. But usually, I’m very chilled out. I feel Irrfan sir is a brilliant actor. 'Hindi Medium' also proved his mettle as a commercial artiste. Had he been well, he would have started working on Vishal Bhardwaj’s film with  . I think he’s one of the best we have today. 
 
