JAIPUR: All eyes were on the Amit Shah-Vasundhara   meeting, which was held in Delhi on Thursday, reportedly to draw a consensus over the appointment of the next president of the state  .

 Chief minister Vasundhara Raje reached Delhi on Thursday morning and met national president Amit Shah and national general secretary (organisation) Ram Lal at the BJP headquarters in Delhi. State party incharge V Satish was also present for the meeting. The long meeting was crucial as it came after a week-long speculations and deliberations over the next president of the state BJP. The announcement on the next state president was expected soon after meeting but as no announcement came, it is believed that the disagreement continues.
 
 However, post-meeting Raje came out smiling and in an informal interaction with the media persons said, ``can’t you make it out from my face.’’ It is believed that Raje had strongly put her veiw point and said that Jodhpur MP and union minister   would not work for the state BJP.
 
 Reports hinted at the party’s high command being keen on handing over the responsibility to Shekhawat, a choice unacceptable to Raje. Shekhawat was the most probable candidate to replace Ashok Parnami, who had resigned last week.
 
 However, ahead of the assembly polls, which are scheduled for later this year, the party high command has taken its time to announce the next state president, who would play an important role during the elections. Revamping the organisation too is crucial given the fact that the state BJP faced a major jolt in the by-polls held on two Lok Sabha and one assembly seat in January.
 
 In the past one week, several party representatives from the Raje camp including senior cabinet ministers have marched to Delhi in her support. They have argued that Shekhawat’s appoint would rob the party of support from the Jat community as he is a Rajput. Similar fears were voiced in the state too by leaders like Devi Singh Bhati, a Rajput himself. Sources in the party confirmed that the party high command rejected the argument, claiming that Rajasthan has seen Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, who had the support of the Jat community, as its chief minister.
 
 This has led to statements like Shekhawat being a new-comer and a first time MP, with little experience of state politics, making rounds. The Raje camp have already floated names of cabinet minister Arun Chaturvedi, a Brahmin and cabinet ministers Srichand Kriplani and Vasudev Devnani, who belong to a numerically insignificant caste. State unit’s general secretary (orgnaisation)   had met Chaturvedi and Devnani, sparking off yet another round of rumours in the state.
 
 
