MUMBAI: Wary of offending Dalit sentiments in the wake of the   clashes, chief minister Devendra   announced a judicial probe and a CID inquiry into the incident on Tuesday afternoon even as protests erupted across the state. The inquiry will be conducted by a sitting judge of Bombay high court. Fadnavis also announced a CID probe into the death of a youth amidst the violence near Pune and announced Rs 10 lakh compensation to the family of the deceased family. “The state government has taken a serious note of the incident.

 There was a plan to create caste-based tension between communities. However, alertness of police forces averted it,” he said. Fadnavis pointed out that the commemoration of the Bhima-Koregaon battle usually draws a crowd of 15,000-20,000 but this year, on the 200thanniversary of the event, 3.5 lakh people had gathered to mark the battle between Bajirao Peshwa II’s army (seen to be predominantly upper-caste in its composition) and British forces which included a large Mahar contingent. Fadnavis chose not to comment on the presence of right-wing outfits like   and Shivraj Pratishthan in the Koregaon region during the dalit rally or their role in triggering clashes. However, the administration has filed cases against their leaders for fomenting trouble.
 
 Apolitical observer said Fadnavis will have to walk a fine line to be seen as impartial. “Maratha and Muslim communities are already upset due to unresolved reservation issues, he wouldn’t take a chance with Dalit sentiments.”
 
 The situation in the state is seen as fluid in the build-up to the 2019 polls. Efforts to consolidate the 12% dalit vote by leaders within the community are evident. However, the BJP regime has so far managed to enjoy support of sections in the community through its outreach.
 
 After coming to power, the government speeded up plans to build the Ambedkar memorial in the   premises in central Mumbai. The presence of Ramdas Athavale as a Union minister and Modi’s espousing of Ambedkar’s views have also added sheen to its pro-dalit image. In the wake of Tuesday’s violence, Fadnavis has appealed for peace and said political and social organisations must help defeat efforts to create caste-communal rifts in the state.
 
