TRICHY: Randomized admissions in private schools based on applications received under the Right to Education ( ) Act have been scheduled for Monday but many parents are still complaining that they haven’t received any communication from the schools in this regard. 

 
 Applications were invited from   for admissions to the private schools at the entry level for 25% seats reserved under RTE and the respective schools were to call all the applicant parents on Monday for admission. 
 
 Admission would be made on the spot if the number of applications received by the school was less than the seats reserved. If otherwise, the admission would be made under the lot system. Considering the overwhelming number of applications to 116 schools in Trichy, a majority of the schools are expected to make admissions through the lot system. 
 
 According to the inspector of matriculation schools ( ), Trichy, every school had personally informed the concerned parents about the random   scheduled on Monday. 
 
 However, there were come applicants who, parents said, had not received any communication yet. Till Sunday evening, A Sathya, mother of a 5-year-old girl, was yet to receive any communication from the school she had applied for to enrol in class I. She was more anxious over the fact that she had opted for only one school for her child in her neighbourhood. Though she could have applied for three schools at the time of filing online application, she said she chose to go ahead with one school after not finding any other suitable. 
 
 “Parents who say they have not received communication could be those who are not eligible to take part in the randomization process,” said an IMS official. 
 
 According to him, only those candidates who are eligible to attend the randomization will be communicated by the respective schools. IMS Trichy said it had been receiving a lot of such complaints over the past few days. 
 
 “Most of these complaints arise out of misconceptions — on most occasions they are either misinformed or are based on assumptions. Ideally they can approach the concerned schools where they have put in applications on Monday,” the official said.
 
