Nagpur: The tug of war between the two main rival factions in the city began in the national capital on Tuesday. While ex-Mayor and city Congress president Vikas Thakre, leading a 36-member team, took the morning flight to Delhi, a bigger team of 55 supporting expelled Congress leader Satish Chaturvedi took a the Rajdhani Express on Monday night and reached there around same time. The Thakre group checked into a plush hotel while the Chaturvedi gang got rooms allotted in austere Old Maharashtra Sadan on Copernicus Marg. For the whole day, it was a virtual show of strength by both groups who called on senior Congress leaders either at their residence of 24, Akbar Road headquarters of the party. The Chaturvedi group claimed to have met Oscar Fernandes, Motilal Vora, Mukul Wasnik, Avinash Pande and had special time with R Mualapalli and Madhusudhan Mistry. The latter two were incharge of the organizational elections. They were told specifically that had internal elections been held in the city, it would have put a stop to groupism. While both the rival groups are fighting it out, it would be interesting to see if any of them gets a hearing from party president Rahul Gandhi who has landed in the capital but is scheduled to leave for Singapore and Malaysia a three-day tour on Wednesday night. The chances looked remote, said party sources. The Chaturvedi group has demanded that Thakre be removed from the post and city Congress elections be held under the gaze of independent observers. The Thakre group, on the other hand, met Kamal Nath, AK Antony, Motilal Vora, Ahmed Patel, Wasnik and told them that the Congress regaining the stronghold of Nagpur which is also the RSS headquarters, is of paramount importance. For this, there is need to start planning for the 2019 elections. Vilas Muttemwar was not present at any of the meetings though he was camping there. His son Vishal was present though. Chaturvedi group is being led by Nitin Raut, Gev Awari and Tanaji Vanve. Chaturvedi supporters also tried to convince the senior leaders that time has come for change of guards in the party unit in Nagpur and in no case Muttemwar be nominated for Lok Sabha again. They opined that a fresh face should be fielded to increase the party’s chances in the fight in the home turf of BJP chief minister and powerful Union minister Nitin Gadkari.