MYSURU/ MANDYA:   is wracked by protests over the   river water dispute but the issue is conspicuous by its absence in the poll discourse in the Cauvery river basin. Instead the anger on the ground is over Cauvery water not being given to farmers; ensuring drinking water is the government’s priority.

 
 The perception in   is that the apex court’s recent judgment holds some relief for the state and therefore, the issue is unlikely to impact the elections, stakeholders say. But they admit that there are many imponderables.
 
 The   has set May 3 as the deadline for the Centre to come out with a draft scheme for implementing its verdict on sharing the Cauvery river water.
 
 The Cauvery river basin is spread over seven districts – Kodagu, Mandya, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Tumakuru and Ramanagara. But it is Mandya that is the ground zero of any turmoil as most of the district is irrigated by the river.
 
 The river dispute was an issue in the 2004 assembly elections as two years earlier, the Supreme Court had ordered a reluctant Karnataka to release water to Tamil Nadu. The 2008 assembly elections too were impacted by a string of protests in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu over the final award of the tribunal set up to adjudicate the matter.
 
 It did not figure prominently in the discourse of 2013 elections as the matter was in the Supreme Court.
 
 “There may not be any adverse court or tribunal judgment sparking off protests this time in the  . But the state government has not released water to our farmers even though there is enough water in all the dams of the catchment area. Farmers are upset,” said Kuruburu Shanthakumar, president of Karnataka Sugarcane Growers’ Association.
 
 Mandya has seen a spate of suicides by farmers in distress. The district reported 70 farmer suicides in 2016-17. In the first 90 days of 2017-18, there were eight suicides.
 
 Mandya MP and JD(S) candidate from Melukote assembly segment in Mandya CS Puttaraju said, “No CM has ill-treated Mandya farmers like Siddaramaiah. There is water in the dam. But Mandya farmers are in distress. This anger of the farmers will reflect in their vote.”
 
 But there are also those who believe that Cauvery is largely a no- issue in Mandya. Former member of KPCC TS Sathyanand says since 1991 no leader who has led or backed protests over the Cauvery dispute has won in any election. “Farmer leader G Made Gowda himself was defeated twice. So this issue will have very little impact on the election,” he said.
 
 
  
 
