NAVI MUMBAI: In its attempt to figure among the top 10 clean cities at the  , the Panvel City Municipal Corporation ( ) has left no stone unturned. 

 The Panvel corporation is providing around 100 compost units as part of zero garbage initiative besides deploying 26 nodal officers and a number of area coordinators to monitor the daily cleanliness activities.
 
 The administration has decided to form area level management committee, which will have educationists, intellectuals and   representatives to push for cleanliness intiatives in various nodes. 
 
 Over 282 community and public toilets have been installed, renovated and repaired as of now. Out of which 31 public toilets have been linked to google maps for public feedback system to rate the facility. 
 
  PCMC commissioner   told TOI, “We have also included local scribes in the area level management committee among other observers. Our focus is on crowded places like railway station circulating areas and bus depots to maintain utmost cleanliness. Nodal officers have been appointed to ensure that swachh norms are adhered to in their respective pockets and it will be a continuous process.”
 
 School and college students have been roped in by PCMC to spearhead the cleanliness drive by drawing graffiti on walls and creating awareness in their neighbourhood, highlighting individual responsibility in promoting health and hygiene.
 
  All schools and colleges have been asked to take out swachh awareness rallies in respective areas on Republic Day.
 
 According to Avinash  , assistant municipal commissioner, “As many as 31 public toilets are equipped with digital feedback system where the users have to press the buttons to rate the facilities.”
 
  For better upkeep of the toilets one has to press green button whereas for average service yellow button is provided. For poor service, one has to push the blue button. These toilets have been covered under google mapping to collect data for further improvement, added Chavan.
 
 Schools have been instructed to constitute cleanliness committee to conduct competitions and create awareness in the neighbourhood. 
 
 NSS and MBA students have been roped in to promote solid waste management, downloading of mobile app and encouraging people for composting. “We have been closely monitoring the large housing societies that have an area of 5, 000 sq m and generating over 100kg of waste daily to segregate the waste and promote compositing,” said an official. 
 
 Hoardings and posters have also been put up at junctions. Signages have been installed at all petrol pump toilets. All shops hhave been provided with two garbage bins. Hotels and restaurants have been instructed to manage their own waste.
 
 
