
 
 
 Contrary to what my mother believed, I used to be wide awake every night waiting for my   to return home. I was just eight years old and was too young to recognise the stench, which filled our single bedroom house once my father reached home, was none other than the smell of alcohol. Lying on my bed, pretending to sleep, I could almost feel the fear emanating from my mother as she would quickly respond to his urgent knocks on the door. Had she been a minute late, there would be a blue mark, turning almost purple on the edges, adorning her cheek the next morning.
 
 Most nights I cried myself to sleep. I knew my mother did the same. This continued for two years before she gathered the courage to move away from her abusive  . Later, with the help of her elder brother she fought for a divorce. 
 
 There were days when I would see my mother being more afraid than she was before. But the reason behind her fear was not her husband. It was me. She constantly worried about what the future holds for me? Who would marry a girl raised by a single mother? Would she be able to provide me with everything that a father could? She worried endlessly about things, which attacked her fragile will. However, my uncle stood strong like a rock and she finally got a divorce. My father hardly bothered that the court had put a restraining order on him from visiting me and my mother. Strangely, he seemed happy. That is the last memory I have of my father: Walking away from my mother with a smile plastered on his face.
 
 Today, I have reached the future my mother worried about constantly. I am in my mid-thirties and yet to find a man to spend my lifetime with. It’s not because I was raised by a single parent. Because I chose to stay single till I find the right man—a man who would not return home drunk and a man who would respect me for who I am. 
 
 Every time I see my mother worrying about my future, I just want to tell her that I will be fine. Sometimes, she still spends sleepless nights wondering about an alternate reality where she is not divorced and we are a happy family. The next morning I hug her tight and tell her, “Ma, you did the right thing by leaving 
  (father). He could have never raised me the way you did. Don’t worry, I will be fine.”
 She would wriggle to break free from my bear hug and fake a scowl. “Don’t try to act smart. Find a man and get married before you turn old,” she would always say whenever I tried to assure her that she did the right thing by walking away from an abusive husband.
 
 
 I don’t know, if I would find a man or not. But I am happy that my mother raised me to become a strong woman. And she didn’t need a man to do that. 
 
 –by Anonymous
 
