NEW DELHI: Former India captain Kris Srikkanth has expressed concern at the ability of   and Hardik Pandya to finish India’s innings with a flourish, following Team India’s rain-hit defeat to South Africa in the fourth ODI on Saturday which saw   fail for the fourth time in the series. 

 
 
 
 
 Following a century to opener Shikhar Dhawan and a fluent 73 from  , India’s innings stumbled. From 206/3 at the loss of Dhawan for 109, India lost wickets at 210, 247 and 262 which left Dhoni the difficult task of trying to get the score past 300. He ended unbeaten on 42 off 43 balls, with three fours and a six, as India closed their innings on 289/7. 
 
 
 
 “This series has so far been all about Virat Kohli and one significant partnership with him in the middle (last three with Dhawan). Once you take those numbers out, there is little else to show. Constant chopping and changing of personnel and the batting order is not helping the team’s cause either. Dhoni failed to accelerate as he has in the recent past. The former captain and Hardik Pandya could not have hoped for a more solid platform to launch an attack and get India to a massive score,” wrote Srikkanth in his column for TOI. 
 
 “You don’t end up on 289 in 50 overs after being 206/2 with 15 overs to go. A total in the region of 320 should have been achieved without any trouble. I do agree the stoppage in play halted their progress, but India definitely fell short by at least 30 runs. The result in a way also held a mirror to their white ball chances when taken out of their comfort zone.”
 
 Saturday’s result has left South Africa with hope of averting a series loss, with rain again forecast for the second ODI today in Port Elizabeth. According to Srikkanth, the major worries for India were Rohit’s poor form, Dhoni’s strike rate and Pandya’s consistency. In three innings so far, Dhoni has scores of 4* off three deliveries, 10 off 22 and 42* off 43 while Pandya has made 3* off six, 14 off 15 and 9 off 13. Rohit, after a poor Test series, has managed innings of 20, 15, 0 and 5 - three times falling to Kagiso Rabada. 
 
 
 
 
 “Going into the fifth game, I can only hope this is a temporary setback for the visitors. The form of Rohit Sharma is a big concern and so is the strike rate and consistency of Dhoni and Pandya. Rohit is too good a player in this format to be missing out, especially in proper batting conditions. The batting unit has to click collectively for the team to be ruthless. I am confident of the bowlers coming back strongly. In an ideal scenario, the series should not be allowed to slip into the final ODI,” wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs. 
 
