New Delhi: The   ( ) has written to the   ( ) stating the   ( ) “chose to disregard” the March 7 deadline to send entries for the   (CWG).

 
 
 
 
 
 
 CGF CEO David Grevemberg has cited this as a reason for “disregarding” the entries of high jumper Siddharth Yadav, 4x400m relay team specialist G Vijayakumari and long jumper M Sreeshankar, and said the AFI has done these athletes a “disservice” by flouting the rules.
 
 Grevemberg’s letter to IOA secretary general Rajeev Mehta, also the CEO of the Commonwealth Games India, says, “We are aware the Indian Athletics (AFI) hosted its qualifier (Federation Cup) after the entry deadline despite   organisers) warnings around timing conflicts. In choosing to disregard this information, a disservice has been done to your athletes and other Commonwealth Games Associations (CGAs).”
 
 
 
 
 
 On Monday, AFI’s secretary general CK Valson passed the buck, chosing to blame both the IOA and CWG organisers for the mess. “Organisers closed the online entry system for athletes in December itself, so how could we have registered their names? How could we have known in advance that some athletes would spring a pleasant surprise with their notable performances? Also, it’s the IOA’s responsibility to ensure the athletes’ names get included since they finalise the contingent,” he said.
 
 The AFI had earlier chosen to defend itself by citing the IAAF’s 15-day rulebook for sending entries. It had argued that Vijayakumari and Sreeshankar’s entries were forwarded to the IOA on March 7 itself while admitting that the entry of Siddharth reached the IOA on March 8.
 
 However, Grevemberg’s letter says “due process” was followed in rejecting the entries. “The CGF is aware of correspondence between yourselves (IOA) and GOLDOC which clearly demonstrates an awareness and subsequent disregard of established timelines to the detriment of the athletes. 
 
 The GC2018 sport entries guide clearly states that late entries will not be accepted after the March 7 deadline and due process has been followed by the CGF in respect to implementation of this deadline. In addition, the athletes in question were not contained on CGA India’s accreditation long list and, therefore, we are unable to make an exception in this regard. The CGF hasn’t approved CGA India’s request for late entries,” Grevemberg wrote.
 
 
