KOLKATA: Indian Museum has decided to pay a tribute to the bard on his 157th birth anniversary in its own unique way — displaying an expensive sari of Tagore’s mother   as the ‘Exhibit of the Month’. The sari, which is in possession of the museum for years, has just been restored for the occasion.

 
 The museum has in its collection a large number of   paintings, as part of its   school collection. These are in very good shape and apart from putting up special signage to encourage visitors to take a good look at them, there wasn’t much that the museum could do to celebrate Tagore’s birthday. “So when we found out that we have an antique sari of Tagore’s mother, which was in dire need of restoration, we decided to put a time frame to it so that it could be done before Tagore’s birthday,” said Museum director  .
 
  
 The purple coloured pure silk sari with traditional brocade embroidery done with pure gold and silver thread is a visual delight. While there are diagonal stripes all over the body of the sari, on the border is a pattern of lotus and vines, which is repeated in the pallu as well. “It is very different from the Benarasi saris that you see today. Today’s saris have a satin finish and are heavy, whereas Sarada Devi’s sari is made of only pure silk yarn and is far lighter in comparison,” Purohit added.
 
 “We have restored the sari, put a backing on it to add strength and support. Each intricacy on the brocade has been worked upon to bring the sari to its original lustre. It’s a beauty to behold,” said Neeta Sengupta, keeper of the museum. The sari will be on display at the textiles gallery of the museum from Wednesday.
 
 The sari, which is approximately 190-year-old, according to the acquisition records of the museum, is part of a 5,000 odd piece textile collection. Most of the textiles/saris are over 200-year-old and are in the process of being restored for an exhibition that is likely to take place before the year is out. Among the other antique saris in the collection are balucharis, patolas, muslins, mulmuls, phulkaris, kathiawaris and sujnis. Priceless Persian carpets are also part of this collection. When the exhibition happens, it will be the first time since the British had it in 1900.
 
 
