NAINITAL: In a major relief to the state government that is gearing up to hold civic body elections in the coming months,   high court on Tuesday sets aside the order dated May 14, 2018, while hearing a special appeal challenging the quashing of government’s delimitation notification by a single bench.
 
  The state government had filed a special appeal in a double bench of the HC against the quashing of the delimitation notification on May 17, 2018 and the matter was being heard in the division bench of Chief Justice KM Joseph and Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma.
  
  SN  , advocate general of Uttarakhand, said, “The honourable division bench has set aside the order of the single bench dated May 14. The court also allowed our appeals dismissing the petitions of those who objected to the notification dated April 5, 2018.”
  
  Babulkar added that the HC allowed special appeals of the state government in 15 of 16 cases and one will be heard on Wednesday.
  
  The single bench of Justice Sudhanshu Dhulia which had reserved the judgment in the case on May 8 ordered on May 14 to scrap the notifications since the governor’s assent was not present in any of the notifications.
  
  The bench while dictating the order remarked, “Governor is the head of state. Actions of the governor are the actions of the state.”
  
  The HC had quashed all notifications issued by the government on April 5 regarding delimitation in districts such as Dehradun, Haridwar, Uttarkashi, Nainital, Udham Singh Nagar, Pauri and Pithoragarh.
  On May 14, the high court had quashed all notifications issued by the government on April 5, 2018 regarding delimitation in districts such as Dehradun, Haridwar, Uttarkashi and Pithoragarh. The April 5 notification was regarding the upcoming municipal elections to be held in the state.
  
  Reacting to the court’s order, state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik had then said that the party will file an appeal against the order in a double bench.
  
  Earlier, on March 9, 2017, the high court had nullified a government notification issued on November 20 last year. Through the notification issued in November, the government had directed the expansion of municipal bodies across the state by bringing several villages under the purview of municipal corporations and municipalities.
