NEW DELHI: The Delhi cabinet on Friday gave an in-principle approval to get 1,000 cluster buses from successful bidders, subject to the permission from the   and the Delhi high court. 

 
 Deputy chief minister   said that as some cases on procuring buses were pending in court, the work order for these non AC, standard-size   buses would be issued after the courts’ approval. 
 
 
  
 
 The transport department had sought the cabinet’s nod to award the contracts for four clusters. The cabinet has approved the successful tender for 1,000 buses after a gap of seven years as there was no space for new depots, the deputy CM said. 
 
 The new depots have come up only in the past three years. The government expects the first lot of 251 cluster scheme buses to start rolling out from September. The processes for procuring another 1,000 buses for DTC and 1,000 electric buses are at advanced stages, added Sisodia. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the city needed 11,000 buses and the go
 vernment’s target was 5,500 buses each for DTC and the cluster scheme.
 
 “These 1,000 buses will be parked in the new depots,” Gahlot said, adding that work was going on to build more depots. The new cluster buses will have safety features such as three IP-based CCTV cameras in each of them and anti-skid mechanism to stop a bus from toppling while manoeuvring sharp turns. “There will also be a panic button after every three seats for passengers and the message will go to a command centre,” Gahlot said. 
 
 The Delhi government is committed to improve the public transport system in the national capital at an affordable price to ensure that residents can travel safely and in comfort, the minister added. 
 
 The government will bear an estimated operational expenditure of around Rs 276 crore in the first year for engaging the new cluster buses. Under the cluster scheme, the Delhi government has to bear the viability gap to meet the deficit between the actual payment that will be made to the concessionaire and the revenue earned mainly from the fare collection. 
 
 Currently, the monthly deficit in operating the cluster buses is about Rs 1.92 lakh per bus. During the 2017-18 financial year, a budget provision of Rs 400 crore was made to meet the deficit between the payment incurred to the concessionaries, integrated mechanism fees, conductors’ wages, and fare collection management fees, and the actual amount realised from the fare collection. 
 
