THANE: As many as 500 residents have latched on to the rent-a-cycle facility available at six spots across the city to travel within the city. The access to this pollutionless and healthy mode of transport is presently available free for registered users for 30 minutes at one stretch.

 The facility started by the corporation in collaboration with a private player is fast gaining popularity among residents with over 3,750 users registering till now. Nearly 2,600 residents have already used the facility till date. “Presently, we have 13 cycles available at each of the six stands at Singhania school, Tata Serein, Majiwada, Vartak Nagar, Korum mall and Viviana mall.
 
 The unisex bicycles are available at the stands for registered users to hire them on a half hourly basis for free at a stretch. The facility is likely to switch over to the pay and use system soon,” informed an associate from the agency operating the facility.
 
 The rent-a-cycle concept, flagged off by   leader   in August, has had seen a slow start and saw traction recently. The facility that is restricted to just six stands now will soon be available at 50 stands with a fresh set of 500 bicycles that will soon be put into use. The idea of the initiative, say officials, is to promote a healthy and zero polluting mode of transport in Thane.
 
 “The stretch was chosen as the junctions here witness some of the highest pollution levels in the city since the last few years. We are hoping pollution levels in certain stretches of the city will be reduced and should also help minimize the snarls,” informed an official associated with the project. 
 
 The bicycles can be booked through a mobile application called Ilovecycling that will also update the user about the route travelled each day and also the calories burnt in one trip. Officials say they are in the process of revising the list of bicycle stands in the city and the same should be operational within the coming months.
 
 “Users will have to download an application on their mobile phones to access the facility by paying Rs 250 as registration charges. The user will be required to fill in all personal details along with an identity proof first to secure the card and use the facility. Once the user is registered, he will be able to unlock a bicycle from any of the stands and deposit the same at any of the designated depots,” informed an official from the agency.
 
 
