NAGPUR: The Nagpur   ( ) on Thursday decided to award maximum marks to those students who attempted the two wrong questions in Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) final-year exam held on April 10. This means students who attempted the questions are likely to get at least 18 marks for each of the three 20-mark questions.

 The NU had invited experts and asked them to solve the paper in which the BCom students had said three questions were wrong. They found that only two of the questions had ‘critical issues’ and model answers were prepared. Now, the valuers will be briefed about the issue on how they should award marks even if the final answer is different.
 
 Vice chancellor SP Kane ruled out holding re-exam for the over 9,000 students who had complained that three questions were wrong in the ‘Financial Accounting’ exam.
 
 Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation Neeraj Khaty said the expert committee of retired commerce teachers arrived at the conclusion that only two questions were wrong.
 
 “A meeting of dean, Board of Studies chairman and valuers would be held at 12.30pm on Saturday. Later, the evaluation of these answerbooks would start,” Khaty said.
 
 However, he refused to give the number of valuers who would be entrusted with the task of evaluating 9,000 answer books.
 
 Khaty said complaints regarding question no. 2C, 3C and 5C each carrying 20 marks were received. “The valuers would be told to allot maximum marks to students who attempted questions 2C and 3C. They would be instructed to award marks on the basis of the steps attempted by students,” he said.
 
 While Khaty refused to comment on 5C, sources said the valuers would be instructed about this question too. “The experts didn’t find anything wrong but exam section doubts the final tally in 5C so it would ask valuers to be liberal with this question too,” they said.
 
 However, the NU authorities were silent on fixing responsibility for the wrong questions and taking action on the moderation committee which sets the paper.
 
 
