BHOPAL: Security arrangements in the city have been tightened in view of Holi festival. Some 3,000 policemen have been deployed to maintain law and order and prevent untoward incident in the city. Flag marches were taken out in both North Zone and South Zone of the city on Thursday evening. Holika Dahan (bonfire) will be conducted at 1,200 spots across the city. 

 DIG Dharmendra Choudhary said the flag march, led by SP (North)  , was taken out from Itwara-Budhwara-Royal Market-Kazi Camp-DIG Bungalow Square-Nishatpura-Chhola Mandir area-Chowki Imambada and came to an end at Peergate. Senior officers, including ADM GP Mali, ASP Rajesh Bhadouria, ASP Sameer Yadav and ASP Mahendra Jain along with a force of 25 policemen took part in the flag march. 
 
 In South Zone, the flag march, led by SP (South) Lodha Rahul Kumar, started from Control Room covering Lily Talkies-Chiklod Road-Pul Bogda-Prabhat Square-Aishbagh-Bajaria-Hinotia-Jinsi-Shabban Chouraha before ending at the Control room.
 
 ADM Disha Nagwanshi, ASP Dharamveer Yadav, ASP Vikas Shahwal along with 225 policemen were present in the flag march. The march was taken out in 66 vehicles, comprising armoured vehicles, bikes, Gypsy and police buses.
 
 ASP Dharamveer Yadav said 3,000 policemen are pressed into service. Three vehicles per police station have been provided for patrolling. At 225 points, a 6-member police team will be deployed in sensitive areas. Besides, there will be a provision for 325 other picket points near religious places. Apart from these, separate force will be deployed for two main processions in Old and New City.
 
 Besides these, police under special 'Gunda Searching Combing drive' took 710 miscreants under custody in last three days. 153 were booked under 110 CrPc, 230 under 151 CrPc and 314 under 107,116 CrPc. In all, preventive action was taken against 697 active miscreants and 724 miscreants were identified under all police stations of the city. The Shakti Squad patrolled busy market areas. Eighty-three active miscreants have been externed from the district.
 
 
