CHENNAI: In what could be good news for those who depend on old-fashioned outdoor activities for recreation,   has planned to develop three playgrounds in the city. Ending the lull in development work dating back to the last financial year, the   will come up with two multi-purpose playgrounds in Semmencherry and one in Mogappair at a cost of nearly Rs. 13.5 crore.

 
 
  
 
 Vacant plots and land earmarked as OSR land under the corporation will be developed for recreational purposes enabling residents to engage themselves in sports and physical activity. The development of vacant Majestic Layout and Naveen’s OSR land in Semmencherry, which lies at the fag end of the city’s IT corridor, as places of public recreation has been a long-pending demand of residents.
 
 The four-acre plot at Elango Nagar in Mogappair, 1.9-acre land at the Majestic Layout and 0.2 acre of Naveen’s OSR land, are likely to get gym equipment, badminton and basketball courts, separate grounds for cricket, football and volleyball, apart from toilets and drinking water facilities.
 
 “The proposals have been readied, but we are seeking funds. We could get funds under the Union government’s AMRUT scheme or the Chennai Mega City Development Scheme,” a corporation official said.
 
 Residents, however, hope that the projects do not lose steam especially when parks and playgrounds are not evenly distributed across the city. Kodambakkam and Adyar zones have 72 of the playgrounds owned by the corporation with several of them requiring facelift. The city has 212 playgrounds and 569 parks but there are many vacant plots and OSR lands earmarked for development although such projects are yet to take off.
 
 At Vinayakar Nagar in Thoraipakkam, for instance, near the 200 Feet Road, a parcel of land was to be developed as a   for the 200-odd neighbouring families. But the land is used as a parking lot for cabs and heavy vehicles.
 
 With very few playgrounds, residents said they were forced to go to private clubs and play areas. “Instead of spending money at private play areas, we could use such public playgrounds once the corporation develops them and then spend on maintaining such facilities,” said Satish G, a resident of Semmencherry. “If the playground has lights, changing rooms, gym and a play area there would be no more need for people to go to private clubs,” he said.
 
 In many areas, the parks which were thrown open to the public years ago have not been upgraded. Rusting equipment and ill-kept play areas plague these grounds which are often off bounds for locals.
 
 S N Kishore, a teen who spends his summer evenings at the Doveton playground in Purasawalkam, said for him and his friends, an open space to play would suffice. “But the gate of the playground remains locked every day and nearly 100 children sneak into the ground through a gap between the gates. The ground is unlocked only during tournaments,” he said.
 
 
