KOLKATA: Union finance minister Arun Jaitley delighted sections of home buyers by announcing a 5% allowance on the difference between the rate at which a transaction takes place and the government-determined circle rate. This will benefit a large segment of buyers and developers in Kolkata from having to fork out income tax (Section 43 CA) on the differential amount.

 Across Kolkata, premium apartments in highrises constructed by reputable developers command a higher premium than four-five storied buildings promoted by local builders in another plot in the same neighbourhood. But since the circle rate is determined by a higher price, buyers of flats in the alleys as well as the builders have to pay income tax. Also, rates set by the Inspector General of Registration (IGR) in several pockets are higher than market rates.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Once Jaitley’s Budget proposal goes through, buyers and sellers will not be subject to I-T even if the transaction value is 5% less than the IGR value or circle rate. However, if the difference is higher than 5%, I-T will be levied on the entire differential amount.
 
 For instance, if a person bought a 1,000 sq ft flat for Rs 50 lakh in a locality where the price of flat as per the circle rate would be Rs 52.5 lakh, the buyer was earlier liable to pay I-T on the differential amount of Rs 2.5 lakh. Post Budget, he will be exempt of I-T under Section 43 CA as the differential amount is within the 5% bracket. But if someone buys the same flat for Rs 49 lakh, I-T will be levied on the entire differential amount of Rs 3.5 lakh.
 
 “A number of buyers and sellers will get relief from this move as the transaction rarely happens at the exact market value. The government should have given a concession of up to 10% because in fringe areas, particularly those to the north and east of the city, the difference between the circle rate and market rate is 10-15%,” said Sanjay Jain of  .
 
 While the IGR rate and market rate in several localities of Kolkata have been brought to a parity recently, small apartment projects in middle-class localities where premium condominium complexes have suddenly sprung up are confronting this problem. An   near Ruby or an   in Tangra have hiked the IGR value.
 
 “The price differential becomes more acute in commercial properties where location advantage in the same neighbourhood can lead to huge variation in price. While a shop space that is located near a bus stand on the main road in a locality may command Rs 15,000-20,000 per sq ft, another shop the same size a few meters away in an alley may fetch only Rs 10,000 per sq ft,” pointed out Nandu Belani, Credai-Bengal president.
 
 Credai-National vice-president Sushil Mohta believes a 10% allowance would have been more helpful, particularly in suburban areas where growth is now taking place. “The difference is more than 5% in several areas including Rajarhat, New Town, Joka, GT Road, BT Road, Madhyamgram and Barasat. Buyers and sellers in these areas will continue to feel the pinch,” he said.
 
