Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh government will prepare a work plan to ensure development of   in different parts of the state. As part of this endeavour, the state government would develop nurseries as per farmers’ demand and the climatic conditions of the region. Over 4.5 lakh plants would be distributed to farmers during the next three months through departmental nurseries. 

 The diverse geo-climatic conditions of the state are conducive to cultivating 35 varieties of fruits which could be grown in the state. State Horticulture Minister Mahender Singh Thakur said that he has specifically directed agricultural specialists to visit farms in their respective areas of functioning and conduct a research on the possibility of maximum coverage to horticulture.
 
 He said that specialists would set up area-specific plans for different regions keeping in view the agro- climatic conditions of the area. It will also be ensured that optimum survival of plants was achieved in the areas planned by horticulture officers, he added. 
 
 Thakur added that robust plants of fruits of high yield varieties would be provided to farmers after proper soil testing. “More and more farmers will be covered in the state under floriculture and horticulture. It will increase self-employment avenues in rural areas and strengthen the economy,” he said. 
 
 Thakur said that strict action would be taken against those supplying plants of poor quality. He also directed the department to ensure that only high quality plants are provided to the farmers. Thakur has also directed the officers of the department to submit a report on survival rate of plants planted by the farmers.
 
 He said that the Integrated Horticulture Mission was being effectively implemented in the state for integrated development of horticulture. Under the mission, various activities such as plant nurseries, construction of water sources and increase in horticulture area, protection of farming under green house, organic farming, post harvest management and food processing activities would be executed effectively. 
 
 
