NEW DELHI: This year,   will put up the   that people look forward to at every  , though Delhi is not one of them. The   is, however, making a comeback after four years and will display a float based on Khelo India, the ministry’s flagship school sports programme, in which students below the age of 17 will be seen performing the traditional malkham and other sports activities.

 Along with 14 states and Union territories, nine ministries will also present their spectacles. Leading them will be All India Radio showcasing the Prime Minister’s Mann Ki Baat programme. Officials said that the tableau would depict how AIR plays a role in integrating the diverse peoples of India.
 
 The ministry of external affairs will have two presentation, apt for representing India’s relationship with Southeast Asian countries in the presence of the leaders of all 10 Asean countries as chief guests at the parade, a first when so many have graced the annual event on Rajpath. The first will display shared values, education and trade while the second will project culture and religion as the strongest linkage between India and South East Asia.
 
 Karnataka will roll out the first tableau, which has wildlife as its theme. It will be followed by Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Uttarakhand, Jammu & Kashmir, Maharashtra, Lakshwadeep, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Assam, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur and Gujarat. 
 
 The Madhya Pradesh tableau will depict the Buddhist centre of Sanchi with different scenes from the life of Gautama Buddha and his previous lifetimes as described in the Jataka Tales. Lakshwadeep has culture as the theme, its second participation in the parade after it made its debut last year.
 
 The Gujarat tableau comprises a diorama on the various activities at Sabarmati Ashram as well as a mural on the start of Gandhiji’s Dandi March.
 
 Others tableaux at the parade will be presented by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, ministry of tribal affairs, ministry of youth affairs, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Directorate of Income Tax and the Central Public Works Department.
 
 
