KOLKATA: The scramble between political parties to claim Swami Vivekananda’s legacy ended with blood being spilled on the streets of north and central Kolkata on Friday, with   and   supporters clashing at least four times barely 500 metres from the spiritual leader’s ancestral home on his 155th birth anniversary.

 The clashes turned parts of Pathuriaghata and Central Avenue into a war zone and cast a shadow on the already fraught relations between the BJP-led Centre and the Trinamool-led state. The state BJP demanded president’s rule in Bengal and Union transport minister   cancelled his visit to the Bengal government’s annual showpiece event, the Bengal Global Business Summit, which starts next Tuesday.
 
 The street fights also attracted Calcutta High Court’s notice after its special officer, Rabi Shankar Datta, submitted that his car was vandalised and he sustained minor injuries near Mohammad Ali Park at 11.15 am. The HC had appointed Datta to oversee the BJP Yuva Morcha motorbike rally after giving its nod. The court on Friday directed the BJP youth wing to suspend its programme for two days and resume it on January 15. The court also directed the judicial magistrate and its special officer to jointly supervise the rally from January 15.
 
 The BJYM had planned its motorbike rally, Pratirodh Sankalpa Abhiyan, to coincide with Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary and was originally scheduled to start on Friday from Contai in East Midnapore and end in Cooch Behar in north Bengal on January 18. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh was scheduled to join the rally from Swami Vivekananda’s ancestral home.
 
 Tension had been building up from Thursday, when BJP supporters reached Binani Bhavanfor Friday’s rally. “Trinamool toughs surrounded the building after they came to know we would be staying there. On Friday, 40-45 men arrived and slapped us, vandalised bikes and locked us in the building,” BJP worker Somnath Das said.
 
 But Trinamool minister Sashi Panja said BJP supporters were harassing local women. “They were hurling abuses and brandishing lathis,” Panja said.
 
 The second round began after BJP supporters came in hordes to rescue their colleagues. Trinamool supporters initially beat a retreat and BJP workers went on a rampage. Several passersby and residents were injured. The mayhem continued for about 50 minutes, till a huge police force from Jorabagan came and restored peace.
 
 Another clash occurred near Kalabagan on Central Avenue when Trinamool supporters on MG Road tried to resist the bike brigade. BJP state president Ghosh called off the programme and staged a dharna near Gandhi Statue. He briefed national president   about the incident. “We started the rally with the court’s go-ahead, but the ruling party did not pay heed even to the court order. The state does not deserve any courtesy or cooperation from the Centre. Union minister Gadkari will not be coming for the BGBS. The situation calls for President’s Rule,” he said. A BJP delegation later called on governor Keshari Nath Tripathi.
 
 Education minister Partha Chatterjee called the BJP’s “hullabaloo” a bid to hit the headlines. “It is unfortunate that they chose Swami Vivekananda’s birthday for this political drama,” Chatterjee said. “The BGBS is being organised by the state and Gadkari is a Union minister. Politics shouldn’t have come in the way of relations between governments,” he added.
 
 
