NEW DELHI: The   on Wednesday allowed fractured auctioning of the   property of   after two attempts for international   of the entire asset in one go failed. It asked the court-appointed liquidator and receiver of the property to complete the task within two months.

 A bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices Ranjan Gogoi and A K Sikri allowed the proposal to sell the property in parts after the liquidator and receiver said that two corporate houses—Mahindra and the Piramal Groups— had expressed interest in buying some of the assets of Aamby Valley.
 
 Aamby Valley is the most valuable project of Sahara, comprising luxury resorts, man-made lakes and an airport. A planned city with world-class infrastructure and facilities, Aamby Valley is spread over 10,000 hectares near Pune.
 
 Senior advocate Darius Khambata, appearing for the receiver, told the bench that Aamby Valley was a vast property and it might not be possible to sell it at one go as no one participated in the auction process, which was advertised not only in India but also other countries. He said there were many saleable assets within Aamby Valley, including international school, golf course, hotels and restaurants, which could be sold to raise the money which the company was to pay to SEBI. He also told the bench that movable properties, including 23 Mercedes cars and 100 other vehicles, could also be easily sold.
 
 He said the process had already been initiated for identifying the saleable properties and the list would be prepared by the end of March.
 
 Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for SEBI, told the bench that Sahara was still to pay Rs 11,569 crore out of Rs 25,781 crore of the principal amount to the market regulator.
 
 Sahara’s advocate Vikas Singh pleaded with the court not to put the assets under the hammer and contended that the company had already refunded the money to its investors. He asked the court to direct SEBI to first hold verification of investor documents and proposed to give bank guarantee for the due amount. He said the company had already paid Rs 50 crore for digitisation of the documents but the market regulator was not verifying it.
 
 The apex court, which had earlier attached the Aamby Valley property, said selling of the assets could not be stayed and gave the green signal for a fractured auction of the property to fetch the amount due from Sahara. The bench said it would consider the Sahara plea at later stage. In January 2012, Sahara valued the property at Rs 34,000 crore but the liquidator has pegged its worth at Rs 43,000 crore. 
 
 It had on July 25 last year allowed official liquidator, appointed by it, to auction the property under the supervision of company judge of Bombay HC and Justice A S Oka. Instead of monthly exercise of fixing the instalment to be paid by Sahara group, the apex court had decided to go the whole hog to fetch over Rs 9,000 crore which was still to be paid by the corporate house to SEBI.
 
 Sahara chief Subrata Roy, who was arrested and spent almost two years behind bars for not paying the amount, was released on May 6, 2016, and has since been out of jail.
 
 
