NOIDA: A case was registered against the father-in-law of a young IAS   and others at his wedding party for playing loud music as the ‘baraat’ made its way to   in   on Monday night.

 Niraj Kumar is posted with the divisional commissioner’s office in Jammu, police said. Vedpal Singh Pundir, the SHO of Noida Expressway police station, said Kumar was getting married to local resident Suresh Singh Chauhan’s daughter. The wedding had been organised at a Noida Authority ground near Shiv Nadar School. “There were around 500 people, including the baraatis and local people, in the celebration. They were playing loud music till late night on the beats of a DJ. Some locals informed the police that loud music was creating an inconvenience for them,” Pundir said. 
 
 “A PCR van reached the venue and asked the baraatis to stop the music. “When the baraatis did not listen to the PCR staff, they informed us and we reached the venue. Despite requests, the wedding party continued playing loud music,” added Pundir.
 
 Anoop Kumar Yadav, a sub-inspector, filed a complaint and a case was registered against Chauhan and others under provisions of the Environment Protection Act and sections 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health), 291 (creating nuisance) and 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty). No arrests were made and the wedding happened as scheduled.
 
 Kumar, originally from Katihar in Bihar, is a 2010-batch   officer and was previously posted as district magistrate of Udhampur. “The music system had been arranged by my in-laws. There were some police officials too during the celebrations. There was no unwanted incident and police did not inform us about legal action,” Kumar told TOI over the phone.
 
 The Supreme Court had in 2015 banned playing music on loudspeakers after 10pm. 
 
 The IAS officer had courted controversy last year when some ‘objectionable’ photos, allegedly of him, were circulated on social media. It led to the Jammu & Kashmir government ordering an inquiry against him and removing him from as the administrative head of Udhampur and sending him to the divisional commissioner’s office in Jammu where he is currently posted.
 
 
