Movie lovers are in for a treat as Zee Telugu and Star Maa have announced the world television premieres of ‘Hello’ and ‘Jawaan’ this Sunday. 

  The channels both took to social media to announce the premieres in their own way. Zee Telugu changed the cover picture of their social media page to that of   andKalyani Priyadarshan starrer ‘Hello’ and wrote, “World television premiere  ! This Sunday @ 6pm.” (sic) With more than 600 likes and numerous shares and comments, fans seem to be looking forward to watching the film.
 
  Star Maa too posted a promo of   and   starrer ‘Jawaan’ and wrote, “#Jawaan World Television Premiere..Coming Sunday On Star Maa #JawaanOnStarMaa”(sic) However, the time at which it will premiere has not been revealed yet, even though fans guess that it will be around 6-6:30 PM too. The promo has raked in more than 1.9k views, 55 likes and numerous shares and comments in an hour. 
 
  Directed by Vikram Kumar and produced by  , ‘Hello’ that released on December 22, 2017, charted the journey of Seenu, played by Akhil Akkineni, and his quest to find his childhood friend Junnu, played by  . Jagapathi Babu and Ramya Krishnan played key roles in the film, that of Seenu’s adoptive parents. Despite garnering positive reviews from both critics and the audience, the film reportedly raked in a share of Rs 19.59 Cr worldwide. 
 
  BVS Ravi’s ‘Jawaan’ starring Sai Dharam Tej as Jai and Mehreen Pirzada as Bhargavi released on December 1, 2017. The film charted the journey of a patriotic man, Jai, for whom nation always comes first. Jai’s life ambition is to work for the DRDO but in the meanwhile, when an evil mastermind makes a plan to harm the nation, he has to foil the plans and protect the country. The film mostly opened to negative reviews but was liked by Sai Dharam Tej fans. 
 
 In the past, there have been many instances of films not doing well at the box office yet raking in good   ratings on television. It remains to be seen how 'Hello' and ' ' will do on the small screen. 
 
