MUMBAI: Molestation cases on the city’s suburban railway network increased by 29% last year compared to 2016. Activists said one of the reasons for the rise in number of cases is social media providing a platform for many victims to narrate their stories, thereby nudging authorities to take action.

 Across Maharashtra, too, molestation cases on trains increased 12% year-on year. There were more cases of rape and molestation recorded under the Mumbai Government Railway Police (GRP) commissionerate than the Pune and Nagpur commissionerates together.
 
 “The reason for the increase in numbers is our zero tolerance policy towards incorrect recording of offences. If we don’t record a case, the offender will never get caught and punished,” said additional director general (railways) Jaijeet Singh. He added that a majority of the cases had already been solved.
 
 Last year, 97 molestation cases were recorded on the city’s railway network and 121 on the entire state railway. Ten cases of rape were recorded on the city’s lifeline in 2017. “Earlier, there was shame attached to the victim of a crime. But the taboo is slowly fading and this is making a big difference to why more women are reporting such crimes,” said   of the NGO, Akshara. “We have worked with the railways on its helpline 182. Initially, the calls received were about lost luggage or train enquiries,” added Shah. “But recently, the helpline has been receiving complaints about flashing, groping or lewd comments. There is also a lot more awareness among women now on how to seek help.”
 
 The GRP statewide security helpline ‘1512’, launched on November 1, 2017, receives around 140 distress calls every day, while the RPF’s twoyear-old national security helpline ‘182’ gets an average 150 calls a day. This helpline number is displayed prominently inside all rakes. But disabled rights activist Fatima D’Souza said victims’ experience with the helpline has rarely been satisfactory. 
 
 “The helpline is rarely able to zero in on the location of the woman in distress and it’s too late by the time help is sent,” she said, adding that women are often harassed in disabled coaches. “Pregnant women are targeted the most in the disabled coaches.”
  
 Most women are harassed or feel uncomfortable on foot over-bridges, said Nandita Shah of the NGO, Akshara. “We have pointed out to the railways that the presence of securitymen is essential for women’s safety. In fact, we had identified the Elphinstone Road over-bridge, which had witnessed a stampede on September 29 that claimed 23 lives, as unsafe for women. On platforms too, we need bright lights and proper signage. If there are large signs on platforms indicating where ladies coach will halt, women won’t have to run around on crowded platforms looking for the compartment, thus reducing chances of harassment,” she said.
 
  
  
 It has been more than two years since  , a fashion design student, had fought off a drunk molester and hauled him to the GRP at  , but the case has not been tried and photographs from her social media account have been misused online. “After I got him arrested, several mediapersons interviewed me and my pictures appeared online. Afterwards, I have found these photos being morphed and appearing on porn sites. I have complained to the police and they then took them down, but they reappeared again,” she said. Activist   suggested that using technology, like installing   cameras in ladies coaches, could serve as a deterrent. “But nothing works like visible policing. The presence of uniformed cops on platforms during the day and inside ladies coaches at night can bring down crimes against women. Currently, there are only 3,800 GRP personnel,” he said.
 
 TIMES VIEW: The presence of khaki in women's compartments and special coaches has to visibly go up if the number of cases is to come down significantly. The absence of an adequate number of lights and signage at platforms, entry/exits and foot-overbridges is another area the railway authorities must address at the earliest.
 
