All it took was one abusive word against their beloved   for the film industry to react to my issue,” fumes a defiant  , breaking her silence for the first time since she abused the ‘Power Star’ in front of the cameras. Explaining that this was the only way she could get the industry big wigs to speak out about her issues, she adds, “For over a month, I have been speaking about sexual harassment and casting couch and nobody even batted an eyelid. But the moment I took Pawan Kalyan’s name, and questioned him, everyone has jumped into the fray. First, Naga Babu, spoke and then Allu Aravind. Now, I hear that they are planning to put a Committee Against Sexual Harassment in place something I’ve been asking for since day one.”

 Reacting to the hullabaloo about Ram Gopal Varma’s sensational claims that it is he who advised Sri Reddy to abuse Pawan Kalyan, the actress admits, “I, along with other artistes, were extremely hurt after facing constant abuse from Pawan Kalyan fans.”
 
 
 
 
 They said all kinds of unspeakable things to me. So when RGV told me to use that expletive,I readily agreed. I also knew that this was the only way I can get the powerful film families to speak about my issue. My intention was not to hurt anybody though,” added Sri Reddy.
 
 The actress, who has since faced severe criticism,says she’s ready to face whatever comes her way and that her fight will continue. “Some people have filed police complaints against me. I’m ready to face the police and the law and answer for my deeds. I have only one question — when politicians throw muck at each other in public, why doesn’t anyone question them? It is simply because a woman has dared to swear, that such a big deal is being made of it,” she reasons. In the early hours of Friday, Pawan Kalyan took to Twitter to respond sharply to the ongoing controversy, and alleged that there is a politicalmedia nexus involved with the sole purpose of taking him down.
 
 “Would you dare to think of doing the same abuse to Sri CBN or Sri Lokesh? Will you ever even think of telecasting abusive rants on opposition leader like yesterday? Will you ever attempt on Sri Balakrishna? But only Pawan Kalyan and his ‘ageing and frail mother’ deserves such abusive rants and repeated telecasts,analysis and debates (sic),”posted Pawan Kalyan, adding, “...Why this special, exclusive treatment for me and my old mother?”
 
 Countering the actor-politician, Sri Reddy says that this is nothing but an attempt by Pawan Kalyan to divert attention from the real issue, which is her protest against sexual predators of  .
 
 “They are trying to trample my protest by bringing in conspiracy theories and diverting the issue. I will not bow down to this. We will continue our fight and we are planning to go to Delhi and approach the   (NHRC) to ensure women are not mistreated like this in the industry,” the actress adds.
 
 Meanwhile, the whole Mega Family, save Chiranjeevi, turned up at the   for a closed-door meeting attended by industry biggies.
 
