CHANDIGARH: The chief minister’s flying squad on Thursday arrested nine persons, including five employees of Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), one contractor and an employee each of state irrigation department and Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), for allegedly taking money from successful candidates in recruitments by telling them they had failed to make the cut.

 The agency also arrested a school lecturer from Jind, who used to act as a middleman in the cash-for-job racket. 
 
 Those arrested have been identified as superintendent Subhash Prashar, assistants Rohtash Sharma, Sukhwinder Singh and Anil Sharma and IT cell official   — all from HSSC;  , a manpower service provider associated with the commission, HSVP clerk Balwan Singh and irrigation department assistant Surender Kumar. The junior lecturer arrested by police has been identified as Suresh Kumar of Jind.
 
 A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act, cheating and forgery and various sections of the Information and Technology (IT) Act was registered at Panchkula’s Sector 5 police station on the complaint of the CM flying squad deputy superintendent of police (DSP)  , who carried out searches at various places.
 
 “All the accused have been interrogated to ascertain their links and operations. On Friday, they will be produced in the court to seek their police remand. We are hopeful of making some more arrests in the case,” said superintendent of police (SP)  , chief of the CM flying squad and head of the special investigation team (SIT) probing the case.
 
 The entire operation was led by SP Setia. “We had information related to rampant corruption and wrongdoing of certain officers and employees of HSSC in connivance with private persons. They had shared some records as well. We had this information and our units had discreetly worked on that. Finally, we conducted searches at certain places, including the confidential branch of HSSC in Panchkula,” said Setia.
 
 The SP said police had sufficient evidence against the accused. “To support the prosecution, we have seized the central processing unit (CPU) and some important documents from the commission,” said Setia.
 
 According to information, a team led by Setia and Poornima entered the HSSC premises in Sector 2, Panchkula, around 1.30pm and immediately went to the confidential branch. Officials associated with searches said the besides the main CPU which had data of candidates, the team also seized documents related to results and examinations held by HSSC.
 
 SIT officers said they had identified candidates who used to figure in the merit lists of HSSC and approach them through conduits. “They would inform the successful candidates that they were falling short by one or two marks and seek cash to help them,” said an SIT official.
 
 Referring to Suresh, cops said he was in touch with all successful candidates and his mobile phone contained the data of those whom he had called. 
 
 
