NAGPUR: Reiterating education minister Vinod Tawde’s statement that a single engineering university for the state was at least three years away, Dr Babasaheb Technological University ( ) vice-chancellor   said the university would be ready to accommodate all technical education colleges within a couple of years. 

 He said BATU would also include architecture, hotel management and catering technology, pharmacy and polytechnics. “Within five years, we plan to affiliate about 650 colleges which run these courses. We’ve already included these courses in our perspective plan. BATU would be single university for courses coming under  .”
 
 The Lonere (Raigad)-based university has started its sub-divisional centres at Kolhapur, Solapur and Jalgaon, as many colleges from these cities had switched their affiliation from their parent university. 
 
 Even administrative staff has been deployed at these places to help the students. “These centres were started on rental basis and presently the university bears their expenditure. We’ve also appointed college principals as coordinators for these centres,” the VC said.
 
 BATU had planned a sub-centre in city and Nagpur University’s management council had okayed the move too. As per former VC Raju Mankar, who has now rejoined his post of LIT director, the university was allotted a space at NU campus on Amravati Road. 
 
 But, BATU didn’t receive any communication from NU. “We would be happy if they had earmarked the area. We’re keen to start our operations,” Gaikar said.
 
 Deliberating on the reasons behind delay, the VC said though they were ready with the infrastructure, the government was yet to allot new statutory posts as per new Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’. “We’re following recommendations made by former IT secretary Rajesh Agrawal’s committee, appointed by the government to reform the obsolete examination system. We’ve already set up management information system (MIS) and e-governance across all our departments, sub-centres and divisional centres. We’ve started simultaneously conducting exams of all 71 colleges.” 
 
 The VC added that the university’s administrative building was ready since last decade or so and can accommodate all 650 colleges. “We’ve applied for faculty positions which the state finance department is yet to clear. Otherwise, out entire infrastructure is ready. Once the government allots us the faculties, it would be then just the matter of a year. Obviously, we do require additional infrastructure required for running a state university and we’re trying to build that through project finance.”
 
 He said none of the universities helped them in setting up sub or divisional centres despite many requests and therefore, they rented the land for them. “Now, the governor had directed all of them to handover the land. We would soon be inking pacts with Mumbai, Pune and Aurangabad universities in this regard, besides   in Nanded.”
 
 Currently, about 71 out of 368 engineering colleges in state are affiliated with the university, of which three are from Vidarbha.
 
 
 
 
 Established in 1989, it’s the unitary institution that offers undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in engineering faculty. Located at the foothills of picturesque Raigad Fort in Lonere (on Mumbai-Goa highway), it’s spread over a sprawling campus of 525 acres. It was accorded the status of an affiliating university for entire state since March 2 last year. Besides, BTech and MTech courses, the university offers diploma in eight streams from its own ‘Institute of Petrochemical Engineering’. It also offers ‘Certificate Course in Nursing Technology’ for rural women and runs ‘Community Polytechnic’ for dropouts.
 
 
 
