 (BARMER): Once bitten, twice shy. An otherwise non-descriptive desert village, Pachpadra has been buzzing with activity for the past one week. Hundreds of HPCL and Rajasthan government officials, VIP visits, hundreds of workers at work, and over 5,000 police personnel keeping a tight vigil had no meaning for the locals who are still suspicious about the government’s motive.

 Sceptic residents at the   of the Rajasthan Refinery refuse to be lured easily.
 
 “How come the politicians are reminded of the refinery in the election year? This is nothing but a political gimmick. We got nothing last time, and we are going to get nothing now,” said Prakash Rao, a local businessman.
 
 His words were a reflection of the mood in general at Pachpadra. The locals here doubt if anything would come out of the grand show put up by the state government on Tuesday. They seemed particularly upset with state revenue minister Amra Ram, who is also the Pachpadra MLA. “He had categorically told us refinery was not viable here and now because it’s election time, he and his party want to take credit for it,” said Bhanwar Rajpurohit.
 
 Despite the fact that the refinery is one of the most ambitious projects that the state BJP has been largely banking upon to raise its popularity, locals remained unimpressed.
 
 “What has been done today could have been done four years ago. Had chief minister   taken a timely initiative, the PM today would have been inaugurating the refinery itself; not commencing work on it,” said Gulabbhai Teli, a small time trader.
 
 “CM’s approach has been disappointing and a lot of time has been deliberately wasted. BJP will suffer and will have to face the ire of voters in the 40 assembly seats in Barmer, Jodhpur and Jaisalmer. We placed blind faith on the government, we won’t repeat the same mistake,” said Jamal Khan, a farmer.
 
 Sensing the disappointment, the local BJP unit and the senior leaders, including state president Ashok Parnami and Union petroleum minister  , in their visits, have emphasised on Barmer refinery is not a “political agenda” but a “project for the benefit of locals”.
 
 They have repeatedly talked about employment and business opportunities for locals along with development and investment coming in.
 
 The local party units too tried to convey the message with their ‘peele chawal’ (local tradition for invitations by presenting yellow-coloured rice) campaign in the three districts, particularly Barmer. Special efforts were made to reach out to the locals by BJP members and supporters who went door to door inviting people to attend Tuesday’s event.
 
 Though, not everyone is as disheartened. Youngsters particularly are welcoming the commencement of work. “Better late than never. We are sure to benefit from it, sooner or later,” said Rahul.
 
 A senior BJP leader said, “Nobody has faced any loss, even for those who had developed land banks. Things were just a stand-still but will start rolling soon. Everything will fall into place once the locals see a structure standing and work happening. It is only a matter of time.”
 
