RAJKOT: In a sensational daylight robbery, about 18 kilogram of gold (bullion) worth approximately Rs 5.6 crore was looted at knifepoint by five assailants near Vadal village, about 12km from   town, on Saturday. The gold belonged to Ahmedabad-based jeweller Natubhai Choksi’s firm and was being taken from Ahmedabad in a car to the company’s workshop in Junagadh.

  Choksi’s firm does job work for branded jewellery companies across the county and also supplies custom-made jewellery to Bollywood actors. It purchases gold in bulk and designs gold ornaments as per order. Its main manufacturing unit is located in Junagadh town. 
 
 Junagadh IGP S Pandia Raj Kumar told TOI, “The gold was imported through government authorized agency  . But there are a few points on which we are investigating. Like why such huge quantity of gold was being transported without any security? Any employee of the firm involved in robbery etc.?”
 
 Junagadh SP Nilesh Jajdia confirmed that the 18kg gold belonged to Natwarbhai Choksi’s firm. He said that nobody was injured in the incident. 
 
 According to police sources, the car with 18 kg gold from Ahmedabad was intercepted near Vadal village by another car that was following it since some time. Sources said that of the five people inside the car, three came out and forced the driver of the car carrying gold to take the vehicle on Bhesan road at knifepoint. After about 2 km, the robbers stopped the car and ordered the driver to take it off road into the fields.
 
 After reaching an isolated farm, two persons from the robber’s car armed with sharp-edged weapons came out and took the gold and fled with others in their car. The jewellery firm’s employee and the driver were left in a state of shock. It took them few minutes to realize that they had been looted, the police said.
 
 Police sources said that they have informed all the check posts in Junagadh and neighbouring districts and ordered thorough checking of all the vehicles.
 
 According to sources, it is suspected that some insiders, who knew about the movement of the gold, may be involved. 
 
 However, there are many unanswered questions as to why the robbers did not hurt the employee or the driver or destroy their cellphone. Why did the employee and driver of Natubhai Choksi’s firm not call the police immediately? the police asked.
 
 Natwarbhai’s son Deepak Choksi lodged an FIR against fiver persons with the Juanagadh police late Saturday evening.
 
 
