MANGALURU: Youth and women are firmly on the radar of AICC chief  . This came to the fore at the personal interaction that Rahul had with   of Udupi and   districts here, prior to his departure for the Chikkamagaluru leg of his Janasharvida Yatra on Wednesday. The Congress chief evinced keen interest in programmes that each block has undertaken, while ascertaining the role given to women and youth in the same.

 Deepak Poojary, Mangaluru North Block Congress Committee in-charge president, told TOI that the meeting showed a new Rahul, in that for a change, he heard the views of block presidents with intent, and not the MLAs, including district ministers. “He was keen to know what was happening in each of our blocks, the programmes undertaken by us, and our preparation for the forthcoming assembly elections,” Deepak said, adding that the thrust was to ensure a greater role for youth and women.
 
 “The role of arecanut, a major horticultural crop, in the economy of the region, too caught Rahul’s attention,” he said. He said Rahul wanted to know the issues pertaining to arecanut, and the pending case before the Supreme Court on banning its production. He said Rahul assured to study issues pertaining to the crop in depth. “Rahul also sought to know the stand taken by the state government in safeguarding the interests of arecanut growers,” Deepak added.
 
 “The Congress party’s inability to breach the BJP’s stronghold in Sullia too caught Rahul’s attention,” he said. When the Congress swept seven out of eight assembly constituencies in Dakshina Kannada in the last polls barring Sullia, Rahul quizzed the leaders on the margin of defeat there. The Sullia block president informed Rahul that district minister B Ramanath Rai is making special efforts to wrest Sullia from the BJP, while ensuring that the party retains the rest of the seats in Dakshina Kannada district.
 
 “After hearing the views of the block presidents, and satisfying himself with answers to questions he posed, Rahul lauded the state government’s administration under chief minister Siddaramaiah,” Deepak said, adding that Rahul gives Karnataka’s example to other state units wherever he goes. Congress leader in Lok Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, chief minister Siddaramaiah, KPCC president G Parameshwara and AICC general secretary   attended the 90-minute meeting.
 
 
