Pankaja Munde, Minister of Rural Development, Women and Child Welfare, Maharashtra, as well as State Guardian Minister for Beed district, is 38 years old but sprints like a teenager. With voluminous energy and determination, she carries forward her father, veteran BJP leader, late Gopinath Munde’s dream. Powered with ambition and constantly under media attention, Pankaja also plays the role of a devoted mother to her son, Aryaman, and is often seen cheering him. Here, she talks about what keeps her going amid trying and happy times.

 
 
 Being a minister, or an industrialist, an IAS/IPS officer, or a CEO, these are not time-bound jobs. They are demanding. Hence, challenges or problems won’t come announced. One has to be alert. You cannot afford to be indecisive, one has to be a fast thinker, planner and executor. You have to inculcate this into your lifestyle.
 
 Unlike in other job roles, where you can set your priorities — your work, family and health regimen — in politics, people own you. When you have a huge following, you are under constant watch. On my birthday, people think it is their day. So you give away a part of yourself to them. This adulation from people comes with respect too. 
 
 
 
 Politics is not a job, it involves full-time dedicated service towards people. Why women don’t foray into politics could be because they are burdened with family responsibilities, and this is a time-consuming role.
 
 It is not as if India has not seen women leaders, it is just that there are still many women who are deprived of basic rights, who are still forbidden to take a step outside the door, and therefore, there is a vast difference in strata, which needs to be bridged.
 
 Women will definitely do well, if all successful women make the situation better for those who are deprived, help them to step out of their homes without fear, and empower them. 
 
 
 
 Perceptions have to change. I never say society has to change; it is parents – the mother, the father, the in-laws, who have to accept that a woman can grow. They have to give women adequate space and support. If every household in the country has this attitude, society will be far more evolved. 
 
 As a family heir, you should accept that a daughter is capable and intelligent enough to carry forward the family legacy. I lit my father’s pyre. I did that for him because my father gave me that strength. I hope every father gives the same strength to their daughters. 
 
 
 
 I have no holidays. Once a month, I get a relaxing Sunday. Like any other mother and wife, I feel sad sometimes for being unable to give enough time to my family. But we make up for lost time. I’m a good cook and when I have time in hand, I prepare my family members’ favourite meals.
 
