LUDHIANA: A 9-year-old student of Class IV of Government Primary School, Ayali  , is aiming high in life with a dream to become an English teacher. Daughter of domestic help, who have not even had primary school education, wants to share her knowledge by teaching students. To support her dreams,  , a child welfare committee formed by government school teachers, has decided to help her complete her higher education.

 To begin with, on Wednesday the committee members organized a function where they handed her over books, shoes, a lunch box, uniform, water bottle and cheque of Rs 3,000. 
 
 Meet  , who had stunned everyone with her spoken English during a district-level competition organized recently under ‘Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab’- an initiative of the state government. She also won first prize in the district and became inspiration of several students of government schools.
 
 Navchetna president   said, The This organization is formed by all government teachers. We contribute from our salary and use the funds to help needy students. Recently when I saw Gauri performing on stage reading an English paper, I was highly impressed with her fluency and confidence.”
 
 “We as teachers perform our duty in schools but along with this we also know the problems of government school students. There is a lot of talent in government schools but most of these children don’t get exposure due to the lack of awareness and weal economical background. Therefore, our organisation decided to adopt such students who can do wonder if provided financial aid,” he added.
 
 The organization members said that they adopt students, who were good in academics and sports along with orphans and those with fewer resources.
 
 After receiving the school kit and cheques, the father-daughter duo looked elated. 
 
 Gauri’s father Inder Bahadur said, “I work as a cook in a house in South City area and my wife is also a domestic help. We both have not studied more than Class IV , but I want to ensure that my children study as much as they want. I and my wife earn around 13,000 per month. We have four children and are unable to run our household with this amount. Gauri was very small when she started reading. She would come to me and keep reading documents and any paper and would make me listen to her. At such small age she understands the value of education and I am thankful to the members of Navchetna for adopting her.” 
 
 Her class teacher   said, “Gauri is an exceptional student. At such a tender age she has great learning and adapting power. She is so keen to learn English and comes to me with English books that she borrow from seniors. She is good in all subjects.”
 
 “My parents work as a domestic helps, but I want to become an English teacher. I want to teach others and share my knowledge. I know this money would help me in studying higher as my parents cannot bear expenses of my studies much longer,” said Gauri.
 
 
