JOHANNESBURG: This South African team has a point to prove. It wants to pay back in the same coin after the whitewash inflicted on them back in 2015-16 when they toured India. This Indian team also has a point to prove. It does not want to be remembered as the first side from India to suffer a whitewash in   since international cricket returned here in 1991-92.

 
 
 
 
 
 In that, the last of the three Test matches that begins at the Wanderers Stadium, known as the ‘Bullring’, assumes significance. It gives a certain edge and complexity desired of a five-day game despite the series already being decided in favour of the hosts. The match begins at 10 am local time and with it begins a contest that has the following elements: pride at stake, a visibly green pitch, four full-time pacers for each team, an extra batsman on both sides and a week’s forecast threatening showers every now and then.
 
 India have more to take away from here than mere consolation. Only in trying to save a whitewash can this Indian team save itself the blushes before they leave the South African shores. A 3-0 whitewash, they realise, will not only lead to a disproportionate cascading of opinions back home but will also tear apart the very core on which they have embarked on this journey.
 
 Ajinkya Rahane makes a return to the playing XI with this match, adding muscle to the batting order that has struggled miserably so far. But whether he will do so at the cost of Rohit Sharma or Hardik Pandya is a decision that’ll be taken only on the morning of the match.
 
 The pitch has clearly taken a beating from the piercing sun. And the groundsmen here suspect a beating from showers over the next few days. To pack in an extra batsman or round up the bowling unit with a five-man attack is the call for India to make.
 
 On the bowling front, the track and the recent record here at the Wanderers allows little leeway for spin, which means R Ashwin will sit out for Bhuvneshwar Kumar in conditions that should serve the latter’s swing. South Africa played their last two matches at this venue without a tweaker and that will be the case with them this time too.
 
 Expect a contest where pace will do a lot of talking and batsmen, especially the visiting ones, will be left with a lot of answering to do. It is here that Sharma, a full-time batsman, could gain an edge over Pandya, whose spells in Centurion lacked zip in the second innings.
 
 Both teams have successfully picked 20 wickets in each of the two Test matches so far. The team that manages to do better with the bat will decide the fate of this contest over the next five days.
 
 With the kind of attack that India have travelled on this tour — one that features a neat element of pace – they won’t be disappointed with the track that’s been laid out for this game. Yet, with the kind of form their batsmen have, they won’t be very happy with what could be in store.
 
 The Wanderers can turn out to be the muchneeded inspiration India need right now. It is a venue where India have never conceded a Test match, won a fabulous contest in 2006 and came close to another one in 2013.
 
  
  
 
 
