GURUGRAM: Traffic police, along with volunteer road safety officers, implemented a number of measures in the area around the MCD toll near   on Sunday, to streamline traffic by demarcating entry and exits. 

 The area has been witnessing a lot of confusion of late. New sign boards have also been placed to make the changes clear to commuters.
 
 “We’ve communicated the changes to NHAI and asked them to change old signboards to reflect the changes,” said ACP (traffic) Hira Singh.
 
 From now on, after getting off the Shankar Chowk flyover, commuters headed towards Dwarka, Kapashera,   and Ambience will have to keep to the extreme left lane and take the left turn for Dwarka, Rajokri or Kapashera, or the U-turn under the Rajokri flyover to head back towards Ambience mall or Ambience island in Gurugram. 
 
 The two lanes right of the extreme left lane have been allocated for commercial vehicles exiting the Shankar Chowk flyover to head for the MCD toll. This will reduce confusion, as now, it is expected that commercial vehicles won’t enter the lanes allocated to private vehicles heading for Delhi, and turn left for the toll later. After exiting the toll, the commercial vehicles will enter the expressway at one of the two designated entries.
 
 The extreme right lane has been allocated for commuters headed towards Delhi. This way, they won’t have to fight for space with commercial vehicles, and will head straight for the Rajokri flyover.
 
 The lane to the left of the extreme right lane has been allocated to commuters from Udyog Vihar or Cyber City merging from under Shankar Chowk flyover. They too will stay under the Rajokri flyover and enter the expressway after heading 250-300m on the service lane. 
 
 Further up on the carriageway, two dedicated entry points will be created after the toll plaza, for commercial and private vehicles to head towards Delhi on the expressway. There won’t be any exit points close to these entry points, so commuters who miss these, will have to head 3km straight up and then take the next exit at Mahipalpur.
 
 “This will solve the problem of bottlenecks that regularly form at the entrance to the Rajokri flyover,” said  , road safety officer.
 
 “We’ve installed jersey barriers on the stretch along with markings. There will be some confusion in the first few days, but it will be solved once people get accustomed to the new rules,” said ACP Singh, who carried out trials on the stretch on Sunday, after a lengthy process of installing the jersey barriers.
 
 
