Nagpur: The Maoist-infested Gadchiroli district’s first technically enrolled cop, assistant sub-inspector Sunil Urade having buckle number 01, who bid the department adieu on Thursday after a service of 35 years, had his time-tested wisdom of maintaining sound rapport with the masses to share with the future generations of the force. The mantra of maintaining good public relations helped 58-year-old Urade, who had joined the service in July 1, 1983, after being selected a year ago in the newly formed district of Gadchiroli, carved out from Chandrapur, survive against the armed Maoist guerrillas in their stronghold for more than three decades. The department’s internal meetings, involving senior personnel and bureaucrats, may be replete with the think tanks repeatedly harping on the significance of nurturing rapport with the masses. Urade’s life as a cop at the grass roots level had revolved more around mutual cordiality with the local residents than his machismo with guns. Urade, who exalts in rendering religious songs at community programmes where he is invited, said public relations had saved his life and that of four others in 1992-93 while posted at Rajaram Khandla police station. “After receiving a tip-off, five of us were heading towards Rajaram Khandla village where a group of armed Maoists had assembled. One of the villagers had fled from the meeting of the Maoists only to inform me about the imminent danger before we ended up walking into a death trap,” he said. July 1, which is also Urade’s birthday, actually changed his life forever after he was selected in the force in 1982 at the age of 21. A music-lover youth from Ashti in Chamorshi taluka, who was aspiring to become a teacher guiding students in melodies and ragas, had to abandon his dream for a more tough path as his father Anandrao would not relent to his request of leaving the job as a cop. After getting selected, Urade was ready to quit but his father pressed to stick to a secure government job rather than planning to carve out a career in music in a district like Gadchiroli. “It was more of a fun for which I had gone to attend the first police recruitment drive in Gadchiroli after the formation of district in 1982.  “After getting selected, my father told me that I would not be allowed to quit. I too told him that he should not expect me to amass wealth for my job,” he said recalling the first salary of Rs 630. “Right from my first posting at Purada police station where I operated the wireless and also handled general duties, till the last day as a senior ASI at Gadchiroli police headquarters rendering service was my main motto. But, forging sound relations with the people had remained my passion,” said Urade, whose son is posted at a hospital in Nagpur while one of the two daughters is preparing for public service commission examination in Pune. “Creating public awareness is the best tool and organizing ‘Jan Jagaran melawas’ are the perfect platforms for curbing the influence of the Reds,” he said.