GHAZIABAD: As he lay under the table with his hands and legs tied and his kidnappers injected sedatives into him, engineer   Kumar did not hope “to come out alive”.

 When he was rescued early on Friday morning, the 35-year-old engineer had several bruise marks on the nose, hands, legs and back, which suggested he was thrashed many times.
 
 On the day he was kidnapped on May 23, Rajeev was waiting for a bus at   to go to Haridwar, where he planned to celebrate his birthday with his family. “For long, no bus came. A white   car parked nearby was looking for passengers to Haridwar. At first, I ignored the car, but approached the driver a little later. They were two other people in the backseat. They offered to drop me to Haridwar for Rs 200 and I hopped in. After a while, the persons sitting beside me took out a knife and a gun. They blindfolded me and made me lie face down on the floor of the car,”   said.
 
 The engineer was taken to a one-room house in   village. “When I came to, I found myself lying under a table with my hands and legs tied. One of the three accomplices would be kept there always to guard the room,” Kumar said.
 
 The engineer was told not to make any noise. If he tried to shout, the abductors would beat him with whatever they found around. 
 
 “They would carry guns and knives and intimidate me most of the time. They asked me about my family members and sought the phone numbers of people who could deposit money into my account. They had kept my mobile phone with themselves and used to send my wife clips showing me pleading with my family to pay them the money at the earliest,” Kumar added.
 
 The kidnappers would offer Rajeev drinks laced with sedatives so that he remained in a trance most of the time. 
 
 “They would serve me lime water mixed with sedatives and inject me with drugs. My body used to get frozen. Through the days I stayed in that room, I didn’t know I was in   for even once. Occasionally, I heard voices of women and children coming from the neighbourhood. The three would play loud music whenever they were present inside the room so that I could not hear their conversations,” he said.
 
 Police have recovered one pistol, Rajeev’s three ATM cards and Rs 50,000 in cash from the house.
 
 
