PANAJI: The Centre’s draft notification revising Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) norms, opening no-development zones for economic and tourism activities and reducing the CRZ limit along rivers, is likely to have a significant impact on the coastal belt, environmentalists in the state said.

 The ministry of environment, forests and climate change has opened the draft notification for public suggestions and objections. Public has 60 days from April 18 to submit the same.
 
 
  
 
 In the case of rivers, the draft rules suggests reducing the CRZ—an area measured from the high tide line (HTL) on the landward side—to 50m from the existing 100m. 
 
 In tidally influenced areas with a norm of 100m, the rules propose, “The CRZ shall apply to the land area between HTL to 50 m or width of the creek, whichever is less, on the landward side.” This will continue to apply till the coastal zone management plan (CZMP) is duly approved, the notification states.
 
 Within the CRZ, more classifications have been introduced to delineate environmentally sensitive areas such as reefs, mangroves and nesting sites.
 
 The notification proposes to permit development in CRZ III (there are three classifications of CRZ) up to a distance of 50m from the high tide line, provided the neighbourhood has a population density of over 2,161 per sqkm according to 2011 census. The Centre proposes to classify such regions as part of a new category — CRZ III (A).
 
 Four turtle nesting sites of Morjim, Mandrem, Agonda and Galgibaga mangrove areas are classified CRZ I, while city areas are CRZ II and all other areas along the coast are CRZ III.
 
 Temporary tourism facilities such as toilets, changing rooms, drinking water facilities and temporary shacks will be allowed on the seaward side of the road in CRZ III areas if national or state highway passes through it, the notification states.
 
 Hotels and resorts and other tourism facilities will be permitted on the landward side of such roads in no-development zones in CRZ III areas.
 
 “Such facilities shall, however, be permitted only subject to the incorporation of tourism plan in the approved CZMP as per this notification and the conditions,” the draft rules state.
 
 These relaxations are likely to have a significant and adverse impact on the coastal belt already saturated with development, environmentalists say.
 
 A sop has been offered to fishermen as they will be permitted to offer ‘home stay’ facilities to tourists without changing the plinth area/design or facade of the existing house. Local communities will be allowed to repair or reconstruct their dwellings within 20m from the HTL. No new construction shall be permitted.
 
 
