NEW DELHI: The increase in the number of CBSE students scoring 90% and above as well as 95% and above is likely to impact the cutoffs of   and Ambedkar University. While many colleges are now planning to start with a high first  , some others are claiming that they will wait for the analysis of the number of applications.

 This year, 72,599 CBSE students have scored 90% and above against 63,247 in 2017, while 12,737 have got 95% and above, a jump of 10,091 from last year.
 
 Over the years, the   have witnessed a rise in the number of high scorers, except for last year when there was a minor dip in the category of 90% and above compared to 2016.
 
 The   recently had said it would ask the colleges to keep a “reasonable cutoff list”. However, according to sources, no such letter has been received by the colleges so far. DU had also claimed in January that it would write to the school boards and request them to avoid moderation of marks. But there has been no confirmation of any such letter yet.
 
 While some principals are claiming that they will keep their cutoffs reasonable, many others have accepted that the first few cutoffs will be kept high. “Our first cutoff will definitely be on the higher side as the results have thrown some very high numbers,” said Simrit Kaur, principal of  , which gets a high number of applications from the boards of the southern states with big scores.
 
 However, many colleges claimed that any increase in cutoffs would be decided by “the number of applicants we receive”.  , principal of Lady Shri Ram College, said they would analyse the application data. “But we would like to have all our seats filled and would be following DU guidelines.”
 
 The college usually keeps the first cutoff high “so that when we have a subsequent dip eventually, we don’t get a huge number of applications vying for our courses”, said Sharma.
 
 A DU official said it was “highly likely that colleges will come out with high cutoffs as the university will see a surge in the number of applicants with over 95% marks”.
 
 This belief is shared by Ambedkar University of Delhi (AUD) as well. Known for its perfect 100 cutoffs in the past couple of years, a senior AUD official said, “We will analyse the number and kind of applications we get before deciding on the cutoffs.”
 
 
