MUMBAI: The   ( ), the country’s apex body for biomedical research, recently sent proposals for clinical   of two new tuberculosis ( ) vaccines to various states as well as civic health officials. ICMR’s Dr Raman Gangakhedkar told TOI that trials could start within the next four to five months. 

 The current TB vaccine, Bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG), administered to newborns has not proven to be widely effective, especially against the disease’s drug-resistant strains.
 
 The two vaccines, named VPM1002 and M Indicus Pranii (MIP), have been through safety trials earlier. While VPM1002 is the joint effort between the German Max Planck Institute and Serum Institute of India, MIP is a collaboration between the Indian department of biotechnology and Cadilla Pharmaceuticals.
 
 These vaccines would be administered to people in households where a TB patient in undergoing treatment. 
 
 “We need to study the vaccine’s effectiveness in the few months that the patient is undergoing treatment,” said Dr Gangakhedkar.
 
 While initial proposals for the clinical trials have been sent to the  , a detailed round of discussions between doctors and scientists from across the country is scheduled for April. The earliest that the trials could begin would be four or five months thereafter. 
 
 A senior BMC official confirmed that the proposals for the trial had reached the corporation’s public health department. A civic doctor, though, said that several issues remain to be discussed. “As many Mumbaikars have latent tuberculosis (they have inactive bacteria in their lungs), it remains to be seen if overpopulated places such as Mumbai that have a high incidence of the disease could be an ideal place to test such a vaccine,” said the doctor.
 
 The World Health Organisation, though, has said that vaccines are an integral part of the TB elimination drive. Dozens of trials are being carried out across the world for new TB vaccines; vaccines are substances that prepare the body’s immune system to fight a disease-causing germ or other pathogen by imitating an infection. 
 
 TB specialist and researcher Dr Zarir Udwadia said a new vaccine could be the “real game changer” in TB control. 
 
 “But, realistically speaking, we are at least a decade away from a successful candidate seeing the light of day,” he added.
 
 Dr Ira Shah, pediatric infectious diseases specialist at Wadia Hospital in Parel, said the current vaccine hasn’t been able to check the tuberculosis epidemic. “We managed to eradicate diseases such as small pox and polio through vaccines. A good tuberculosis vaccine is the need of the hour,” said Dr Shah.
 
 
