MYSURU: Former vice-chancellor of the   (KSOU) Ramegowda and rationalist KS   urged the Union human resource development ministry to put an end to the crisis of the varsity since the life of more than three lakh students hung in the balance. “An expert committee will fight the battle on behalf of the students,” the duo said on Tuesday.

 Ramegowda said, “A state-level academic committee will be formed soon to discuss various issues that are affecting higher education in Karnataka, and the KSOU problem will also be on the anvil. We need to ensure that there are no KSOU-like scams in other universities. The details on the committee will be published in the next few days.”
 
 The UGC’s refusal to renew recognition to courses offered by KSOU has plunged the future of thousands of students in uncertainty.
 
 Bhagawan, meanwhile, opined that the problem could be resolved in a matter of days if the all agencies made a sincere effort. “But everyone is just toying with the students’ future,” he said.
 
 Member of the KSOU’s board of management KS Shivaramu alleged bias on the part of the UGC and the HRD ministry towards the varsity. “The UGC and the HRD minister   are issuing confusing statements. The newly formed committee will take up a nation-wide protest if the students are not provided relief,” he said.
 
 Shivaramu also urged the JD(S) to withdraw the Chamaraja assembly segment ticket it had handed to KSOU’s former V-C KS Rangappa. “He jeopardised the future of lakhs of students. The JD(S) should not give him a ticket. I will protest if he is handed the ticket. The state government must act against KSOU authorities, but the priority must be to provide relief to students,” he added.
 
 However, Rangappa has remained staunch in his defence against these allegations.
 
 Moily vows to fight for varsity
 
 On the other hand, former chief minister M   on Tuesday vowed to fight to save KSOU.
 
 “Once the assembly elections are over, I will fight to save the university in the earnest,” said Moily, adding that he had spoken to Javadekar about the problem, besides raising the issue in Parliament.
 
 “But the BJP is unwilling to solve the problem now owing to the elections,” Moily said.
 
 Although he eschewed mention of names, Moily held one of the former authorities of KSOU responsible for the varsity’s predicament. “All the wrongdoers need to be brought to book. I will launch a campaign to seek recognition for courses offered by KSOU,” he said.
 
 
