Bengaluru: The city may soon house a landmark, on the lines of New York City’s  , at the Residency Road and   intersection in central business district (CBD) where a war memorial stands at present.

 BBMP officials have extensive plans to transform the junction into a prominent tourist destination. Mayor R Sampath Raj announced this on Thursday during the much-awaited reopening of the relaid  . It had largely remained out of bounds for the past year as unpredictable rain and other factors led to the TenderSURE work missing several deadlines. 
 
 The street was last on the itinerary of chief minister Siddaramaiah and Bengaluru development minister K J George, who also inaugurated Phase 1 of the Okalipuram eight-lane corridor and part of a multi-storey parking facility at Freedom Park.
 
 Siddaramaiah didn’t wait for the actual reopening of Church Street but rushed to Pavagada in Tumakuru on official work, leaving Shantinagar MLA N A Haris and George to do the honours.
 
 “We want the city to have a Bengaluru Square similar to Times Square. We are planning it at the entrance of Brigade Road. Bengaluru is fast becoming a global city, and there should be something to celebrate that. We have asked Swati Ramanathan, the brain behind TenderSURE, to start working on a detailed project report,” the mayor said.
 
 He said the revamp was an attempt to make the street a world-class tourist destination. “MG Road and Church Street are must-visit spots for Bengaluru tourists. A lot of citizens have told us that they want Church Street to be a walkers’ zone. We will convey people’s demand to the authorities concerned. Church Street will also have easy access to the upcoming pod taxi service that will be extended to Richmond Road,” he said.
 
 Haris, whose constituency the road falls under, claimed Church Street is the first ‘handmade’ road in the country. “Every stone was laid individually. This road is an asset, and the chief minister has worked hard to change the face of the city,” he said. 
 
 Boxes: Parking in Freedom Park 
 
 A three-floor parking facility was also inaugurated, though only 60% of the work has been completed. It can accommodate 36 four-wheelers and 40 two-wheelers. The project cost is Rs 79.81 crore and once fully ready, it will be able to house 580 four-wheelers and 500 two-wheelers. The complex is spread over 23,712sqm.
 
 Okalipuram corridor, flyover
 
 The first phase of the Okalipuram eight-lane corridor was also inaugurated on Thursday. It links Okalipuram Junction and Fountain Circle. A two-lane 430-metre unidirectional flyover connecting Krantivira Sangolli Rayanna (city) railway station to Malleswaram is now open for use. A two-lane 273-metre road from Malleswaram to Rajajinagar passing through the underpass and the rail under bridge (RUB) was also opened along with a 180-metre stretch from the railway station to Rajajinagar passing through the RUB. 
 
 ————
 
 Cong supporters hijack road reopening
 
 Bengaluru: Church Street turned into a election rally venue as hundreds of Congress supporters thronged the stretch chanting slogans, waving party flags and donning masks of Congress chief Rahul Gandhi, chief minister S Siddaramaiah and MLA N A Haris. 
 
 The men and women and even some children formed majority of the crowd which had gathered for the street’s official inauguration.
 
 Haris and minister KJ George tom-tommed the government’s achievements. “There is no shortage of funds for development. Not just CBD, but all areas will be equally developed and people will have much more to look forward to. From providing free bus passes to students to whitetopping major roads, the aim is to enhance citizen services,” George said. 
 
 Asked about the large number of party supporters at the venue, he said, “We don’t ask them to assemble each time. They come as they support our vision and believe in us.”
 
 
