JALANDHAR: Punjab   has targeted Akali Dal and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on failing to get GST exemption for   in Amritsar despite being partners in power with BJP at the Centre. SGPC had recently said that it had paid Rs 2 crore as GST.

 Comparing the GST on purchases for ‘langar’ with ‘jazia’ during mughal rulers, Punjab Congress vice-president and spokesperson Himanshu Pathak on Sunday said that BJP-led Union government should explain why purchase of rations for langar at the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar is not GST-exempt when prasadam at Tirumala temple in   is. 
 
 “It smacks of discrimination and narrow mindedness,” he alleged, while addressing a press conference here. “Is there need for anybody to explain what ‘langar’ at Darbar Sahib means when it is the biggest community kitchen in the world, where all can have food without any discrimination,” he said. “Union finance minister   knows about the ethos and socio-economic dynamics of langar at Darbar Sahib, as he himself contested the   election from Amritsar,” he added.
 
 When told that Jaitley had already ruled out GST on langar, Pathak pointed out that SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal had already pointed out this statement was misleading. “SGPC has asked for exemption of GST on purchase of rations for ‘langar’. As food is served free, there can’t be any GST on service of the food in community kitchen. But it seems the Union finance ministry is using diversionary tactics,” he said.
 
 Punjab Congress vice-president also asked SAD president Sukhbir Badal and Punjab BJP president Vijay Sampla to come clean on the issue. “If Badal can’t get such a genuine issue resolved by their alliance government, then what can they get for Punjab?” he asked. “Had this happened when Congress government was in Centre, the Badals would have raised the bogey of Congress being anti-Sikh. Now, he should tell the people what can be said about the BJP for such discrimination,” he said while taking a dig at SAD leadership, which also controls the SGPC. “Sampla should exlain why double standards are being used in exempting the Tirupati tempe for GST and refusing to give exemption to SGPC on its purchases for langar,” Pathak said. 
 
 
