New Delhi: This Valentine’s Day was not just for lovebirds. With Mahashivratri falling on the same day, Wednesday was a public holiday and a large number of families also flooded the city’s popular hangout zones.

 Mahedner Nagpal, who was at a south Delhi mall with his family, said, “It is rare for government employees to get a holiday on Valentine’s Day. We have come to enjoy the nice weather.” 
 
 Subhash Ahuja (68), who was enjoying scoops of ice-cream with his wife at another mall, said, “In our times, we didn’t have much time to roam around. Now we are free and actually enjoying the small joys of life like Valentine’s Day.” 
 
 With couples thronging parks, malls and public places like Connaught Place and India Gate, pink and red were the colours of the day, with heart-shaped decorations and cutouts of love fairies in abundance. Thankfully, the day went off without any untoward event.
 
 The outlets went all out to woo all — from a discount of Rs 500-1,000 on Kindle, prices cut down by a quarter on cosmetics to exclusive discounts for couples by restaurants.
 
 Special selfie points were set up at many places against romantic backdrops like giant hearts, marquee made up of hanging red cherry blossom flowers and flowery arches. But Prem Kumar Lele, of Sanjay Flosist near Khan Market, said the flower business this year was a let down. “We could not clear our stock.” 
 
 Sunny Deyali (28), a singer at a live music performance at Select CityWalk, said a 14-day schedule of live gigs was ending on the 14th. “People are increasingly requesting love songs from the 80s and 90s apart from Arijit’s melodies.” 
 
 Some outlets tried quirky opposition to the day of love, with special treats for the singles and the scorned. 
 
 Amid all these, Asaram Bapu’s followers were seen preaching the advantages of parental love over the worldly variety at the overcrowded CP while Iskcon devotees talked about the advantage of godly love over bodily love. Former water minister Kapil Mishra organised ‘Delhi, Kejriwal aur dhokha’ against a backdrop of a broken heart.
 
 
