BENGALURU:   Technologies,   and L&T Infotech are among the potential suitors evaluating a bid to acquire IT services and consulting business  , put on the block by the NYSE-listed  , people directly aware of the matter said.

 BPO major Genpact had acquired Headstrong, a capital markets domain specialist, in an expensive $550-million deal seven years ago. Now Headstrong may fetch around $200 million, or less than half of what Genpact paid, in an ongoing sale process, sources said.
 
 Genpact — which counts global Fortune 500 companies like Boeing, GlaxoSmithKline and Citigroup as customers — bought Headstrong in an all-cash deal to morph from a horizontal service provider to a domain specialist so that customers would benefit from integrated service offerings.
 
 US-based HfS Research’s CEO Phil Fersht said the objective was to build a credible IT services business and enable a “full stack” of capabilities for capital markets clients (IT plus business process management, or BPM). They could not scale it up and the traditional capital markets today is very different — this type of offering is not effective any more. So both objectives failed and the acquisition was never invested in sufficiently to get it up to market requirements, and a lot of the consulting talent left Headstrong. “It was both a cultural and strategic mismatch,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Genpact said it would not comment on market speculation. The suitors for Headstrong may consider offering valuation between six to eight times its ebitda, or operating profit, pegged at under $30 million currently.
 
 US-based Everest Group’s CEO Peter Bendor-Samuel said the Headstrong acquisition has been problematic from the start as it did not have enough scale to succeed inside Genpact. It struggled with being a small IT fish in a large BPO pond. “It also had cultural differences and was focused in capital markets, which is not an area of strength for Genpact.”
 
 Genpact has been on an acquisition spree. Last year, it acquired Boston-based digital consulting firm TandemSeven, and it also bought Rage Frameworks to strengthen its AI capabilities. Its another buyout was BrightClaim and National Vendor to create a robust insurance claim management expertise.
 
 But in the case of Headstrong, it turned out to be an expensive bet, which was 19 times the ebitda then. Bendor-Samuel said Genpact, like Infosys with its product acquisitions and Wipro with its legacy infrastructure company, is wise to divest once it’s clear that these assets are no longer key to their strategy.
 
 
