GURUGRAM: With more Indians showing interest in winter sports, there is a need to expand the infrastructure. Now, having successfully run an all-season   for six years in the city, iSKATE has plans to do just that.

 Recently, iSKATE, an enterprise of Bird Group, inaugurated a facility in the village of Chibra Kargyam, in the Changthang region (Leh district) of  . At an altitude of 4,374 metres (approx. 14,350 feet) above sea level, this is staking claim to be the highest rink in the world. To mark the inauguration, a 16-team tournament was organised in a new Guinness World Record attempt for the ‘highest’ ever ice hockey event.
 
 Measuring 60mx30m, the rink was set up with the help of The Hockey Foundation (THF), a New York-based not-for-profit. “THF spent two years raising funds from both corporate and private individuals, as capital for this project,” revealed Robert Ruszala, who has been associated with the foundation since 2003 (and who played ice hockey as a youngster).
 
 THF, incidentally, has a global vision to empower underprivileged youth, encourage social change and support community development through the sport of ice hockey. It has built rinks in Argentina, Egypt, Ireland, Ukraine, USA, and now India.
 
 Under its partnership with THF, iSKATE will promote winter sports through ice hockey and ‘learn to skate’ coaching programmes imparted by international and in-house instructors, through the year. “With support from the government and sporting bodies, we are committed to strengthening infrastructural development of world-class ice-skating sporting venues such as iSKATE, so that players are able to perform at their best,” shared Karan Rai, operations & business development head, iSKATE.
 
 Now, iSKATE is looking to associate with the Uttarakhand government to revive and operate India’s only international size rink, in Dehradun. This 2,500-capacity facility was built for the South Asian Winter Games in 2011. It has been lying inactive because the state authorities cannot afford its operational and maintenance costs.
 
 Partnering with the Ice   Association of India, iSKATE has played host to a series of national level events in figure and speed skating, and in ice hockey, as well as numerous training camps. Currently, it is supporting four national level ice hockey players. “They are being employed by us, they’re part of our team, which gives them regular training opportunities.”
 
 The Winter Olympics may have come and gone but the next Games, in Beijing in 2022, are a realistic goal for a nation that is beginning to fall in love with winter sports.
 
 
