NEW DELHI: Low-cost carrier (LCC)   on Thursday said it will not bid for   (AI) under the current terms of sale spelt out recently. When the government had decided to divest in AI in last June, IndiGo was the first to show interest in the international flights of AI and AI Express. The entire airline operations of AI,   and AI-SATS (airport service company) being put on the block as one entity is more than what the budget airline was looking for.

 
 "From day one, IndiGo has expressed its interest primarily in the acquisition of AI's international operations and AI Express. However, that option is not available under the government's current plans for AI. Also, as we have communicated before, we do not believe that we have the capability to take on the task of acquiring and successfully turning around all of AI's airline operations," IndiGo president   said.
 
  brass said they will not be able to comment on this development or on whether the terms of AI sale may be changed as the divestment "process is on".
 
 Till now, IndiGo, Tata-Singapore Airlines (SIA) JV Vistara and an unnamed foreign player have expressed interest in AI, while others like Jet and Qatar Airways are learnt to be evaluating the situation. IndiGo's latest stand will not affect its plans to start international medium-and-long flights as the airline promoters had last year made it clear that they will do so "with or without" AI. They had, however, admitted that expanding wings in distant markets "without" AI will take much longer.
 
 The government's terms of sale offer to divest its 76% stake in AI. IndiGo's co-promoter Rakesh Gangwal had last July said in an investors' call: "A joint venture or joint ownership with the government is at best a very, very difficult proposition…. Government has owned and managed AI for more than 50 years. They are looking to divest in it…. From our perspective as a corporate entity, we would not go down a path where there would be a JV or even a minority, majority stake which the government would own. Maybe (it's) a good model, but we cannot bring value to that proposition."
 
 Of AI's total debt of Rs 50,000 crore, bidders for the airline arm - AI, AI Express and AI-SATS - being offered for sale first - will have to take over debt of Rs 24,576 crore and current liabilities of Rs 8,816 crore. The iconic Nariman Point headquarters will not be associated with the "new AI" and only the central Delhi HQ at Airlines House will be given to the successful bidder for use for "two years or more".
 
