KOLKATA: By the end of March, the historic blue plaque is going to make an official comeback in   after a gap of five years. Since the British period, Bengal has had a tradition of installing blue enamel plaques in lanes and buildings of historic importance. Thanks to the  , the return of the plaques will re-establish Bengal’s ties with France and England.

 But before that happens, there will be another renovation work that will keep the heritage commission busy. The governor’s house in Serampore has been renovated. “The Danish government and our experts have collaborated for this. We are also coming up with a gallery that will serve as a museum to showcase the history of our relationship with  . The official inauguration of this museum will be held on February 28 in the presence of ambassadors of four different countries,” said artist Shuvaprasanna, chairman of the commission.
 
 The new blue plaques are ready and the commission is going to install them at seven heritage buildings in Chandernagore that have a French connection. The trend of installing blue plaques was started by the British and continued even after Independence. “But often, miscreants would steal them. Once I chanced upon one such plaque that had the words ‘don’t urinate here’ written on it. I kept the plaque as a display item in my College Street studio,” the artist added.
 
 According to him, the trend of honouring heritage buildings with blue plaques was discontinued in Bengal due to “technical reasons”.  , executive director of Sur Enamel which was set up in 1914 and has been supplying plaques for heritage sites across India, said: “We have been manufacturing vitreous enamel plaques for around 80 years. Our factory was shut for some years. In between, stove enamel was passed off as vitreous enamel for making blue plaques. Sometimes, cheap steel boards were used instead of enamel boards. These were not weather proof. Now, we have been asked to manufacture blue plaques that retain the Britishperiod vintage quality,” Sur said.
 
 The plaques are now ready. “The French president is arriving in New Delhi on March 10. That’s why the ambassador is busy. But it has been decided that we will have an official ceremony by the end of March when we will start installing the plaques in Chandernagore. After that, we also plan to replace the steel ones with the new plaques,” Shuvaprasanna added.
 
 The seven heritage buildings that will get the the blue plaques now are the Sacred Heart Church, Rakshit Bhavan, library gate, registry office, Kanailal Vidyamandir, Kanailal Vidyamandir French section and Chandernagore College.
 
