RAJKOT: In less than 24 hours, Junagadh police cracked the sensational daylight 18kg gold heist and arrested six persons in the case. The entire stock of gold was recovered from the accused. Investigation revealed that the entire loot was plotted by Gautam  , the driver of Deepak Choksi, the complainant in the case who had ordered the gold stock from Ahmedabad. 

 The police, who were already suspecting an insider’s role in the loot, called Majethia and Milan Choksi, who had gone with him to Ahmedabad, for questioning. During interrogation, Majethia broke down and revealed the entire conspiracy that he had hatched along with the prime accused Aijaz alias  , a resident of Junagadh town. 
 
 Along with Chisti, police arrested his accomplices — Mushtaq Ghulam Mayudiin Qadri, Iqbal alias Dado Mohammed Theba, Wasim Habib Chand and   from Junagadh. Police also recovered the entire stock of 18.555kg gold worth Rs 5.75 crore and four mobiles worth Rs 40,000 from Chisti’s house.
 
 M S  , deputy superintendent of police, said, “Majethia had borrowed Rs 50,000 from Aijaz around 20 days ago. Aijaz then started pressurizing him to repay the loan. However, Majethia did not have any money. The duo then plotted to loot the gold ordered from Ahmedabad.”
 
 According to the plan, when Majethia and Milan reached Rajkot, the former called up Aijaz who reached Jetpur bypass along with his accomplices. They started chasing Choksi’s car driven by Majethia from the bypass. On reaching Vadal crossroads, 12km from Junagadh, Aijaz dashed his car into Majethia’s from behind and waylaid them. One of the accused placed a knife on Milan’s neck and asked Majethia to follow their car. They took the duo on Bhesan Road and looted the gold and mobiles. Faces of accused were hidden.
 
 The gold belonged to Ahmedabad-based jeweller Natubhai Choksi’s firm and was being taken from Ahmedabad in a car to the company’s main manufacturing unit in Junagadh town. The firm does job work for branded jewellery firms across the county and also supplies custom-made jewellery to Bollywood actors. Police suspected insider’s role as the robbers didn’t injure either of the two or try to destroy their phones. Also, Majethia didn’t call police immediately and instead called the owner.
 
 
