KANYAKUMARI: It is not often that a people’s representative dares his voters to pry on what he does all day. But that is precisely what DMK’s  , T Mano  , has done. The   has invited “anyone from the constituency” to join him during his trips or otherwise and grill him about his work. They can interact with him and also take part in the meetings he participates.

 “Being an MLA is not just about power. It is about shouldering a lot of responsibility. Many youths look down at politicians. I am transparent and would like to give the public an exposure to what an honest politician does,” he told TOI. Those interested can book a ride in his vehicle as he traverses the constituency by calling his assistant at 9894550502. 
 
 “Except on days when I attend the assembly or travel to Chennai for important meetings, I am in my constituency on most days. My SUV can accommodate nine people. Usually, only I, my assistant and my driver travel. So we will accommodate interested people in the vehicle. They can join me at my office at 9 am for the trip,” he said.
 
 The MLA said that his daily routine began at the office where he received petitions though the schedule for the rest of the days varied. “If it is going to be a day of paper work at my office it is going to be boring but they can still spend the day with me. On other days they should excuse me for personal work and confidential discussions,” he added on a lighter note.
 
 Thangaraj said that those accompanying him could also observe meetings with government officials, spot visits, party meetings and government and private events. He said that an MLA received petitions wherever he went every day and that these also dealt with complex issues that had to be handled carefully. “It is not as easy as a common man thinks,” he said. During the travel, they could also discuss a variety of topics ranging from his political ideology to various government policies.
 
 Thangaraj, who is a first-time MLA, has been the district panchayat chairman for two terms. The 50-year-old who was into business earlier is now fully into politics besides running an NGO.
 
 
