Ludhiana: In order to bring pedestrian underpath (PUP) near the mini secretariat in use, the civic officials are planning to organize   constructed inside the PUP on February 9. The shops will be leased out for 30 years and the idea is to establish a small market so that people should also start using the path. The MC has also requested the district administration to close down the crossing near mini secretariat only so that people use the underpath.

 The authorities have already failed thrice in their attempt to auction these shops. The reserve price of these shops has been kept at Rs 17.90 lakh and over Rs 3.5 crore have been spent in the construction. The officials claimed that they would now talk d to the stamp paper sellers, who usually sit outside the mini secretariat, to get these shops on lease. 
 
 The pedestrian underpaths in the city were dream projects of former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal and were conceptualized with an idea that visitors coming to various offices, especially the court, would be using it to cross Ferozepur Road. Another pedestrian underpath is lying unused near Aggar Nagar that was constructed with an idea that the area residents would use it to cross the Ferozepur Road.
 
 Being one of the busiest stretches in the city, Ferozepur Road caters to fast-moving traffic almost throughout the day and to avoid accidents these underpaths were constructed at a cost of around Rs 7 crore. However the same never came into use as the commuters and visitors prefer crossing the road directly. 
 
 In the underpath near the mini secretariat there are nine shops while in Aggar Nagar 13 shops were constructed. Municipal commissioner Jaskiran Singh claimed that they would auction the shops near mini secretariat and then after seeing the response they would organize auction at the second site. 
 
 Notably, construction work for underpath near the mini secretariat had begun in December 2010 and it was formally inaugurated in November 2012. Similarly, construction work at Aggar Nagar was started in 2010 and the same was inaugurated in November 2014. 
 
 
