LUDHIANA: Almost a month after  , located in a tehsil in Ludhiana district, hit the headlines for worst crimes in the school premises, the district education officer (secondary) has recommended change of entire school staff, following a request from villagers regarding the same.

  has sent the recommendation to the director public instructions (DPI-secondary) Paramjit Singh.
 
 After the arrest of three teachers for their alleged involvement in rape and abortion of a student, villagers decided to come out against the entire school staff.
 
 Significantly, the school has been named after a martyr of that village. Following this incident, the martyr’s father gave a memorandum, asking for a change in the entire school staff.
 
 The villagers said as the schoolgirl was raped inside the school library, the entire staff was aware of the incident, but kept mum over it for a whole year until an audio clip surfaced, in which two teachers were heard conspiring on how to get the foetus aborted.
 
 Ravinder Singh, a villager and an alumnus of the school, said, “For the past few days, the entire village is talking about the same incident. We are not only angry, but also worried for the youth of our village. Therefore, after a long discussion, we have given a memorandum to an official with the demand of changing the entire school staff.”
 
 Sukhbir Singh, another resident, said, “All these teachers, who were aware of the case but kept mum are equally guilty. Now, everyone is worried about the safety of children in this school. We do not trust these teachers anymore, and want new employees in the school.”
 
  Swaranjit Kaur said, “We have sent the recommendation to change the entire school staff, as per the demand of the villagers. The staff might be changed in the next academic session.”
 
 A few days after the rape incident was reported, a teacher posted in the school commited suicide, ashamed of the incident.
 
 Another controversy hit the school when it was discovered that a class IV employee was involved in consuming and selling drugs to students. 
 
 COMPLICIT IN CRIME
 
 January 2017 | A teacher allegedly raped a Class IX girl in the school library. Later, when the girl got pregnant, the teacher — along with two other colleagues — conspired to get her foetus aborted. The accused made the girl fall in the school, after which she was rushed to the hospital for an abortion. Besides three school teachers, the police have arrested the wife of the accused Punjabi teacher, who is a nurse, for helping in the girl’s abortion. Cops have also arrested the owner and assistant of a private diagnostic centre for allegedly getting the student’s abortion done. Further, a panchayat member of the same village has been arrested for helping the Punjabi and Mathematics teachers get a transfer from the school by accepting Rs 2.5 lakh.
 
 The school presently has one principal and seven teachers (including three female teachers), one clerk, one health outsourcing in-charge, and a peon.
 
 
