JAIPUR: The Bani Park police in Jaipur on Tuesday busted a gang involved in duping people on the pretext of providing them question papers of   (REET).

 Several documents like college transcripts belonging to many REET aspirants were also recovered from them.
 
 The police have arrested Bhoma Ram Jat, a resident of Hathoj in Jaipur, Satyendra Singh, and Ashish Kumar. Both Singh and Kumar were resident of Jhunjhunu district. 
 
 “The main kingpin of the con job has been identified as one C R Choudhary. He runs a coaching centre in   area of Jaipur. We raided his house but he is absconding,” said Sanjay Kumar Arya, SHO, Bani Park police station.
 
 The matter came to light when a complainant filed a case on Monday in which he alleged that he had paid Rs 3 lakh to Ashish, hoping to get questions that would appear in the paper.
 
 “The complainant was a REET aspirant, he gave a blank cheque to the accused, along with other original documents like college transcripts etc, the aspirant realised that he was cheated and filed a complaint,” Arya informed TOI.
 
 The police collected information about the gang and arrested three persons for their alleged ties with the gang. The initial probe indicates a well-established criminal syndicate been operating for past many years now. SHO Arya said the police’s investigation has not concluded with these arrests as there may be other suspects involved in gang.
 
 “We have learnt that Bhoma Ram and Satyendra found potential targets, which were mostly aspirants and their parents. The duo used to tell victims that their boss CR Choudhary is a man of high approach and can fetch them a seat in any examination,” an official said.
 
 The investigators of   suspect that the gang had also duped people from many cities. “As of now their involvement in REET examination has come to the fore, but we suspect they had duped people on pretext of other examinations too,” an official said.
 
 Duping students and their parents on pretext of assuring admission in colleges or selection in government jobs, is a most common used tricks by conmen in Rajasthan. The ATS in May last year had busted a similar gang cheating students appearing in NEET exams.
 
 
