When 22-year-old gymnast   sprinted towards the vaulting table at the Hisense Arena during the final of the Women’s Vault event at Gymnastic World Cup in Melbourne, Australia, she wasn’t expecting to 
create history. But as she lifted off, did a cartwheel and made a clean landing, scoring a 13.649 on the electronic score screen, Aruna attained a feat which no other Indian has ever achieved — clinch a bronze medal, India’s first, in the coveted tournament. Speaking to us from Melbourne, the Hyderabadi girls recounts her journey from being a ‘karate kid’ to a medal-winning 
 gymnast, her struggles to make it so far, the unconditional support of her family and the pressure to perform while in the shadow of ace gymnast  . Excerpts.
 
 
 I’m very, very happy for having realised my father’s dream. All my near and dear were waiting for this day for so long, and finally they are all happy for me. so am I; it feels awesome that I’ve been able to fulfil everyone’s wishes. I’ve seen good times and bad times as a player. I know how much struggle goes into the making of a successful player. I have so many people to thank for my success — my family, my coach Brij Kishore in Hyderabad. Then there was the moral support of many like   sir, chamundeswarnath sir. The support of Go sports Foundation was enormous in my victory. 
 
 
 Honestly, I never thought that I was being compared to Dipa. I am myself —Aruna Budda Reddy! This is what I wanted for myself. And, Dipa Karmakar is the one and only Dipa; she made the world look to India when it comes to gymnastics. She made her mark. She is the role model for all of us gymnasts and we look up to her at all times. She was my co trainee at the IG Stadium and I can’t thank her enough, both for bringing Gymnastics in India to the limelight and also for showing me the way ahead. 
 
 
 Unlike other countries, we in India have a different sports policy. The policy is all about felicitating players and giving them incentives, after they win the medals. I always wanted to say this, but I held back because I knew that my words will not be heard if i speak just as a player; I knew I will be heard if I speak as a medal winner. Now, I hope I can speak my heart out, and that I will be heard by everyone. 
 
 
 Changes are needed, but not in gymnastics alone! I am a sportsperson and I want all sports to be given equal importance. When I say this, I’m speaking for all the players. as sportspersons, what we need is moral and financial support. This gives us the confidence to face the world. There are players like me who are facing enormous stress for failing to do what they ought to do, ie play to bring medals for our country. We are not job seekers under the Sports Quota, we are the players of India. there are many like me out there still waiting for support from the authorities, from the government, from peer groups. A sturdy hand of support, a little appreciation is all what we as players need. That small ignition is enough to send us surging ahead. we have number of medalists in India to prove that.
 Here in India, we end up talking of academics to the kids, but not about sports. It’s time we created awareness about sports. parents will show interest in sending their kids to pursue sports only when sports are respected by the state; when the state facilitates growth of sports. If the state gives least priority and support to sports, so will the family. We have a pre-conceived notion in India, that sport is for job security. This hinders prospective professional players from emerging. There is another problem —players who brought international medals in their respective sports are often jobless and homeless. This pathetic condition has to change.
 We struggle to make the country proud, we deserve some respect. My request to the state, the authorities, the private sponsors and to the media: Please encourage us. we are here, competent, dedicated, and committed. But recognise us even before you recognise our medals. 
 
 
 My father Late B  , was not a sportsman himself, but he was aware that children are not meant for studies alone. I was barely five years old when he introduced me to karate for physical fitness. My coach was very observant and he suggested that I be moved to gymnastics considering my flexibility. In the initial years, I was reluctant. I was just six or seven, and gymnastics was only a play for me. Still, my father used to ensure I practise. He’d take me from school, to practise, then back home. I used to go home only to sleep. I was actually not aware of what I was doing then. I was doing things only because I was told to. It took a few years for me to get into the shoes of a player. Holding me tight in those shoes was what my father did for me. He was much more dedicated to the sport than I was. It was as if he was playing. He travelled with me everywhere I went for tournaments. It is this dedication of his, which at a later point in my career, made me look at the sport differently. I now had more reverence, dedication and ambition. I started seeing success, winning medals at the district level, state level, national level, and taking part in international tournaments. I’d just realised what my goal was, and at that point, suddenly, he left me! Left me clueless! I had no idea what to do next, I was in the middle of no where…
 
 
 Luckily for me, my family supported me to a great extent in my endeavours. They were ready to do anything for me. No one in my family knew about what went into my sport till my father was around; they didn’t even know what I did at the stadium. They only knew that I won some medals. Despite that, they didn’t ask me to stop my sport even after my father’s death. They didn’t even know what will come of it all, and yet they were with me. I am very grateful to them for that. Since I am emotional and sensitive, I get impacted by any negativity around me. but they helped me tide over that depression and pushed me to get my focus back on the goal. they are my strength. Without them, I couldn’t have come so far. 
 
 
 Oh yes! Our family faced financial obstacles always. but I want to clear the air here that we never had to sell our house to fund my sport. That’s some wrong news which got circulated. But financing a sport like this is a problem for any normal family like mine. We do get cash incentives at times, but they go into paying off loans taken for training earlier. Then there are times when the authorities don’t release the funds promised for our visa applications, tickets, kits etc., in advance. In such cases, we have to bear the expenses and wait for the reimbursement.
 This time around, as a member of TOPS, I confidently made arrangements for a two-month training in Uzbekistan hoping to get the money needed on time. Usually these are moments of stress and helplessness. Luckily, I managed to get the first half of my training covered due to some generous corporate and NGO help and for the second month we took a personal loan. I am still waiting for the funds to be reimbursed so I can pay off that loan.
 
 
 I practise at   in Hyderbad, which has very outdated equipment. The gymnasium itself is in a pathetic condition. Gymnastics is the riskiest game of all. One little miss, and it can cost us our lives. Still we practise in such pitiful surroundings. There are children who are very young, with only fire in their hearts and nothing else. They have no option but to practise in such environment. I have taken this matter up with the department, but in vain. 
 Then again, my coach at L.B.Stadium is Brij Kishore, but when I’m in training camps, I train under Bishweswar Nandi. This means each time the training patterns and methodology are totally different. If I start practising a new movement in Hyderabad, the whole thing will have to be done from basic in a different way in delhi camp. This results in missing the continuity. And then there are injuries — they have become a part of life. There is not a day without ruptures on our hands and legs; swelling, rashes, allergies etc. There was a time when I had a major ligament tear on my right shoulder. Fortunately, my doctors and physio therapist in hyderabad were always there with me and helped me heal from these injuries. They were a phone call away even during emergencies. 
 This time, I did not want any of this to happen. Having being selected as one of the players for TOPS, I wanted to make the best use of it and so I scheduled the training in Uzbekistan. 
 
 
 I should say, if not for that brief talk with Gopichand sir, I still would have carried all the pressure, stress, negativity around me on my shoulders. The weight of this would have pulled me down in my tournament. It is this kind of motivation and confidence building, which we as players need to face the world of competition. This is what we players are lacking— the perfect mentor! Sir made me realise how important it is to forget and leave all the stress around us, before facing the competition. And it really did matter a lot!
 
 
 My immediate priority is the commonwealth games in the month of April. The ultimate goal will be the Olympic medal. But before that, there are several crucial tournaments in the list.
 
 
