From her couture maroon fringed purse, Italian Consul General Stefania   fishes out a recent clipping from this paper and reads aloud the result of a nationwide survey which found seven out of ten men don’t associate women with science. Costanza is currently standing on a fairly even ground or space if you will. Inside the simulated sky that is the first floor of Worli's   this evening, a few women--who have built rockets and telescopes--are smiling from blown-up photographs on one end and a few men are busy making waffles for guests on the other.

 A month-long exhibition titled ‘Space Women, Space Girls’ conducted by the Italian Consulate in collaboration with the Italian Space Agency (ASI) and the Nehru Centre -- which tells the stories of 19 women from all over the world who are at the heart of the space adventure. One of 82 events around the world meant to mark the first edition of the Italian Research Day, which honours the work of Italian scientists and researchers abroad, this project is the result of 11 renowned female photographers meeting scientists, engineers and even students passionate about space.
 
 The project’s visual orbit covers everyone from  , flight engineer for the 42nd Expedition to the International Space Station and a Captain in the Italian Air Force, who is standing with her hands akimbo to a yellow-sari-clad N Valarmathi, who used to walk 10 kilometres daily to school before morphing into a scientist who spearheaded the launch of RISAT, the first indigenously developed Radar Imaging Satellite at the ISRO.
 
 With the lens zooming in on women from the Atacama Desert to the suburbs of  , the exhibition will be on till May 20. The project was born from a historical grouse. Given that Russia’s Valentina Tereshkova, who became the first woman cosmonaut 50 years ago, is still the only woman to have performed a solo journey into space and many women are still under-represented in scientific careers, the European Space Agency (ESA) tied up with French photo agency Sipa Press to enlist photographers who would capture women working in space.
 
 Bangalore-based Jyothy  , who photographed ISRO scientists N Valarmathi and TK Anuradha, was surprised to find normal women who fell in love with the stars and never saw their gender as deterrents to the field.
 
 “As women, we focus so much on what does not work for us but their focus was only on the dream,” says Karat.
 
 This aspirational aura of space was what made Costanza zero in on this field of science for the exhibition. Other extraordinary women in the posters include   who grew up by candlelight in a village surrounded by forests in French Guiana before becoming a payload engineer who organises satellite operations. What left a particular impact on Bhagyashri Todankar, who conducts laboratory workshops at the Planetarium--was the caption below the smiling engineering student from France, Armelle--photographed at the C'Space where she launched her own experimental rocket. Like Armelle, who hopes to build a shuttle that would travel throughout the solar system, Todankar, an instrumentation engineer, too wants to do something revolutionary.
 
 Among other subjects, Todankar teaches astronomy to schoolkids and does not smirk when they ask her if aliens exist.
 
