CHENNAI: With   gearing up to start the construction of an integrated terminal as part of phase-2 expansion of the Chennai airport, apublichearing on theenvironmental impact of the project will be held at the airport on Wednesday. The hearing will be held at the new international arrival building .

 The phase-2 expansion entails construction of an integrated terminal after demolishing the old domestic terminal which was lying unused after operations were moved to the steel and glass building that was opened in the year 2013.
 
 
  
 
 A multi-level car park will also be constructed on either side of the metro rail station. Though the work is being carriedoutwithin the airport campus, an environment impact assessment report has been prepared .
 
  has already started demolishing the domestic terminal to build the new terminal. Once the integrated terminal is built, international operations will be moved to the new building and the existing arrival building which is still functioning at the old building will be pulled down to build a new one which will be linked to the integrated terminal. In an environment impact assessment study AAI has detailed the measures it will take to ensure minimum impact on the environment while the new terminal is being built. Steps have been detailed to cut down dust and noise during the process of construction to prevent interference in flight and terminal operations.
 
 A senior official of AAI saidthesestepswereimportant because work was being carried out in an operational airport, that too at a spot between two functioning terminals. Based on an impact assessment study, AAI has said the construction is going to have a temporary impact on air quality.
 
 “The impact is likely to be for a shorter duration and will be confined to the construction site. The workers will be given protective equipment,” said the study. It also said additional land will not be acquired for the construction and that an air quality monitoring station will be installed at the air side and steps are being taken to ensure proper use of water and disposal of waste water and other debris.
 
 An official said steps would be taken to open the international arrival hall on the ground floor of the new international terminal in coming months
 
