NEW DELHI:  , who led   to two IPL titles, has returned to his first franchise   as a potential captain, while the returning   have bought back   to reunite four of their five most successful players. The other big overseas purchase during the second set of marquee player bidding on day one of the 2018 IPL auction in Bengaluru was Glenn Maxwell, who joined Gambhir in Delhi for Rs 9 crore - the GMR-owned franchise’s costlier buy so far. 

 
 
 
 
 Daredevils took a moment to survey the field for Gambhir, and then outmatched Kings XI Punjab to secure his services for Rs 2.80 crore, a steal deal given the batsman’s base price was Rs 2 crore. Gambhir is credited with turning around KKR’s fortunes with his innovative captaincy, crucial batting and selection of certain uncapped Indian and experienced overseas players, and is the franchise’s leading run-getter with 3345 in 122 matches. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 KXIP,   and Royal Challengers Bangalore took plenty of interest in Maxwell, but a late bid from Daredevils upped the stakes from Rs 7 crore and the GMR-owned franchise won the Australian allrounder for Rs 9 crore. 
 
 
 
 Having watched their most successful bowler in R Ashwin slip away to KXIP, CSK used their second Right-to-Match (RTM) card to regain Bravo for Rs 6.40 crore. The West Indian allrounder is their second highest wicket-taker wth 93 scalps; earlier in the day, the franchise had used an RTM card to get back South African skipper Faf du Plessis for a very affordable Rs 1.60 crore, just 10 lakh more than his base price. 
 
 Harbhajan Singh, who was not retained by  , was CSK’s third purchase of the morning, going to his second IPL franchise for base price of Rs 2 crore. Sunrisers, who won the IPL in 2016, purchased Bangladesh allrounder Shakib Al Hasan for Rs 2 crore and New Zealand skipper Kane Williamson for Rs 3 crore. 
 
 There were no takes for Twenty20 cricket’s leading run-getter Chris Gayle or England captain Joe Root, who was in the IPL auction for the first time. 
 
