THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On May Day,   will be freed from the practice of Nokkukooli. Formal orders in this regard was issued by the government late on Monday. The order states that   or demanding wages when no work is done will be illegal and attract the penal provisions of the Kerala Headload Workers' Act, 1978. 

 The maximum penal provision under the act recommends a sentence of six months in prison and fines for various offences. If an instance of nokkukooli is reported, the local assistant labour commissioner should inform the police and they will initiate legal proceedings.
 
 The order also said that the labour card of those who demand nokkukooli will be cancelled and the rates fixed by respective headload workers' welfare board should be charged from the public. The government decision to end the much-criticized practise of nokkukooli was taken after it held a detailed conversation with all major trade unions, who agreed that the practise was unfair.
 
 In recent times, trade unions had put their word into practice in two major instances in the capital, when labourers took money by threatening individuals in the name of nokkukooli.
 
 Meanwhile, trade unions are trying to ensure awareness among their members about the legal and organizational consequences for violating norms.   ( ) state general secretary Elamaram Kareem said labourers of his union will follow the government decision. "Our union had taken a stand that it is not right to seek wages without doing work much earlier. As government has issued a formal order, we will undertake awareness campaigns among members about adhering to government decision. We will also take action against those who deliberately violate the decision," he said.
 
  (INTUC) also welcomed the move but suggested that an alternate solution must be evolved by the government for job loss due to mechanisation. "When mechanisation is introduced, jobs lost should be compensated by providing an allied job at the work site for labourers with minimum wages till that particular work is over," said   state president R Chandrasekharan.
 
 
 
