Idukki: The authorities of  , on Sunday, refuted the statement made by former church spokesperson Fr Paul Thelakkat, who had said that there was no evidence to suggest that   had come to India and converted upper caste Hindus to Christianity. Thelakkat’s remarks had triggered off a controversy within the Church. 

 Curia bishop Sebastian Vaniapurakal said the statement was baseless and not based on valid facts. “The official stand of Syro-Malabar Church is that St Thomas had visited India. Many historians and historical documents have already proved it. However, we agree that a small section of historians may have raised their disagreement over St Thomas’s visit,” said the statement.
 
 Last week, bishop Geevarghese Coorilos of the Niranam diocese of the Jacobite Syrian Church said St Thomas hadn’t visited the state and did not convert upper caste Hindus to Christianity. Later, Fr Thelakkat also came out with a statement supporting the Nirnanam bishop’s remark. 
 
 However, Thelakkat’s statement created a tiff within the Church, with a group of priests and laity members seeking action against the priest. The Changanacherry archdiocese has expressed its displeasure over the comment.
 
 “There is enough proof to establish that St Thomas had visited Kerala. Some revisionist historians are trying to create doubts in this regard. St Thomas had come to Kerala in a ship. At the same time, St Thomas could not have visited Malayattoor. Basically there is no historical evidence to the footprints of St Thomas and the Gold Cross on Malayatoor hills,” said Fr Jose Kochuparampil, former Mar Thoma Vidyaniketan director and senior priest belonging to Changanachery archdiocese, adding that St Thomas’s Malayattoor connection is a belief followed only by Syrian Christians, which is not validated by historical aspects.
 
 “Syrian Christians were considered upper caste in society for many centuries as they claimed that they were originally brahmins. They also follow and imitate several traditions of brahmins in Kerala, including ‘manthrakodi’ and ‘thali’,” said Fr Kochuparampil.
 
 Syrian Christians in Kerala believe that St Thomas had visited Kerala and converted the Namboothiris to Christianity. They believe St Thomas had also built eight churches (also known as 7.5 churches) in various parts of Kerala. The Syrian Christians are also known as St Thomas Christians.
 
 However, priests belonging to Changanachery archdiocese are disappointed with the curia bishop’s statement. “The Church should take only one stand saying that the the apostle had visited Kerala. It should not have said that a group of historians have disagreement about the visit. Basically, the statement points out that the Church also has doubts on St Thomas’ visit,” said a senior priest from Changanachery archdiocese.
 
 Meanwhile, historian M G S Narayanan ruled out claims that St Thomas visited Kerala. “There is no historical evidence to the visit,” he said.
 
 
