NEW DELHI: The Council for the   Examinations ( ) declared results for   on Monday, with girls once again faring better than boys. This year, the number of students who have tied up for the top three positions has also increased, with as many as seven students sharing the first position for the Indian School Certificate (ISC) exam.

 Gerry Arathoon, CEO of CISCE, said that the number of students who have scored the top grade has increased over the year. This is evident in the number of students who have tied up for the first, second and third rank in the ISC exam. Seven students who have secured the first rank scored 99.5%, 17 have ranked second with 99.2% and 25 have shared the third rank at 99% (all in English and best of three). Arathoon said this is the ninth consecutive year that the council has carried out a centralised evaluation of the answer scripts. “We have not adopted any moderation this year,” he added.
 
 While the number of students who have scored top marks is more, Arathoon said the highest score has remained the same. This year, the seven top rankers include three from Lucknow and one from Lakhimpur Kheri (Uttar Pradesh), two from Mumbai and one from Panihati in West Bengal. Last year, only Ananya Maity of Kolkata had scored the top rank at 99.5%.
 
 In Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE), while there is just one topper — Swayam Das of Navi Mumbai — there are two second rankers and 12 third rankers. The pass percentage this year for   had marginally dipped from 98.53% last year to 98.51%. Interestingly, the number of girls who have passed this year is less than last year, sliding from 99% to 98.9%.
 
 Yet, the girls have fared better in both ISC and ICSE exams, Arathoon said. In ISC, the pass percentage has dipped from 96.5% from 96.2%, with both boys and girls faring marginally worse than last year. However, 97.6% girls managed to pass, as compared to 95% boys.
 
 For the ICSE, the southern region continued to have the best percentage of 99.7%, followed by western region at 99.7%. Correspondingly, for ISC, southern region ruled the roost with 98.4% followed by western region at 97.2%. 
 
 For both certificate exams, the southern region had the maximum number of girls appearing for the exam, as compared to other states. The ISC examination marksheets and pass certificates are expected to reach the schools by May 19, though the council has also made provisions to download the certificates from the DigiLocker portal, complete with a digital signature.
 
 
