DHARWAD: Major (retired)  , the new additional commissioner ( ), department of Public Instruction has chalked out plans to improve the performance of the students and teachers and enhance the overall quality of education in schools in seven districts under his jurisdiction. 

 Son of a teacher, the senior KAS officer who had a stint in Indian Army shared his plans with TOI in an interview. Excerpts:
 
 
 
  My office has jurisdiction over  , Haveri, Gadag, Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Belagavi and Uttara Kannada districts. There is a need to improve the quality of teaching and learning right from the standard 1. If we go by taluk-wise ranking based on passing percentage in SSLC-2018 five taluks- Gokak (First place), Siddapura (fourth), Mudalgi (sixth), Kalghatagi (eighth) and Indi (ninth)- have secured places in the top ten in the state. At the same time, taluks like Mundgod (198), Nargund (195), Bilgi (194) and Gadag Urban (188) are far below in the ranking, which is a disturbing factor. I had discussions with BEOs concerned to find out the reasons for the success and poor performance. Now I have drawn a plan of action and directed the officials to visit schools regularly to monitor and guide the implementation of the plan.
 
 
 
  The role of parents in a child’s education is very important and we must involve them. Holding regular parents’ meeting, mothers’ meet and discussing the progress of the child’s performance, making children develop the habit of loud reading, writing, drawing maps, diagrams on black board, recitation of poems loudly and memorizing them, encouraging group study, identifying slow learners and making the teachers adopt such students and oversee his day-to-day studies, conducting mock examinations and surprise tests are some of the measures we are planning. 
 
 BEOs and DDPIs will monitor the implementation of thgis plan. We are forming teams of expert teachers in each district and providing their telephone numbers to all schools. The students can directly contact them and get their problems solved.
 
 The teachers complain that officials visiting schools try to find faults and harass them instead of guiding them.
 
 Both teachers and officials need to change their mindset. I have instructed my officials to respect teachers and be polite with them.
 
 
 
 We will distribute them to the schools as soon as they are supplied to us by the state government.
 
 
 
  I will direct my officials to look into this issue and ensure that those violating the government’s direction are penalized.
 
 
