HYDERABAD: For most people,   and YouTube might be sources of entertainment. But for 
  , the two played a much bigger role - they helped him crack his civil service exam. 

 
 
  
  
 
 Speaking to STOI a day after he was declared the national topper, Durishetty said that it wasn't any coaching class but the internet that he spent hours on to prepare for the civils. Sharing a tip or two to the youngsters aspiring to crack   (UPSC) test, Durishetty said: "It is not necessary that one enrols with a coaching institute. These days everything is available online and all one needs is the zeal and motivation to crack the test. There are many websites, magazines and newspapers that can provide one with all the required information. Even then if someone has a doubt, YouTube is the best tutor." 
 
  
  
 
 An   officer from   village in Jagatyal, Anudeep said that his determination to don the Indian Administrative Service officer's (IAS) role grew stronger while serving in his current position. "As an IRS officer, you are limited to the revenue department. But an IAS gets to test his limits in various departments. It brings more responsibility. This realisation made me work even harder to achieve my goal," he said adding how it was his father's dream to see him become an IAS officer. 
 
  
  
 
 Durishetty, who opted for Telangana cadre to 'serve his native state' said that it would be a privilege to work in Telangana. "This is the place where I was born and brought up and working here and making a difference with my work would be an honour. However, no matter where I am posted, improving health and education will be my top priorities," said Durishetty. The 2017 test was his fifth attempt.
 
 While he had a few more chances in his kitty, the 28-year-old was certain to never write the test again, in case he didn't get through IAS this time. "I was exhausted and decided not to write the test again irrespective of the outcome of the exam. I just decided to give my best this time. Luckily, the odds were in my favour," said Durishetty. He first attempted the civil exams in 2012.
 
 
