KOLKATA: A 39-year-old real estate builder from Behala Harisabha has become the latest victim of social media defamation, allegedly by a fake journalist. Unable to bear shocking lies about his own mother’s death, he has lodged a formal complaint with the Lalbazar cyber cell and is in talks with legal advisors to file a defamation case.

 According to the post, Shivaji Bhattacharya, introduced to the world as a doctor from Cooch Behar, had left his ailing mother to die in an old-age home at Konnagar. He had refused to attend even the cremation of his mother, informing the old-age home that they were “free to do whatever they wanted”, the   post claimed. It attracted thousands of negative comments, with one political leader belonging to a Left group even calling for his social boycott.
 
  
 “I had reported the matter as spam on April 14 itself. But within hours the next day, it went viral. Since then, I am being subjected to innumerable questions even from strangers. People from all corners are sending me hate messages. I am living through a nightmare,” Bhattachaya told TOI. The post was deleted on Thursday, by then it was shared 16,000 times “If he had known me, he would have known that I am not a doctor but a businessman and I am not posted at Cooch Behar and is based in Behala. And that my actual mother died more than a year ago on March 27, 2017, after battling cancer. I was with her till her last breath. The attending doctors can verify this anywhere anytime,” Bhattacharya added.
 
 Bhattacharya has forwarded the details to the Cyber Police Station at Lalbazar. “A probe has been initiated. He has been receiving such messages since April 14 on his Messenger,” said a Lalbazar official.
 
 
 
 Police on Thursday urged people not to heed rumours about a girl being held captive in a Metiabruz house. Praveen Tripathi, Jt CP (Crime), on Tuesday tweeted, “A rumour is being spread on social media about a minor girl being held captive in a Metiabruz house and police being afraid of raiding the place. Don’t believe in rumours being spread to create communal tension. All indulged in spreading these would be severely dealt with.”
 
 The complainant’s lawyer Uday Jha said, “There is a specific FIR in this regard. There is a specific directive to police on this by the  . The victim is a minor and the FIR is under 363 IPC or kidnapping. The FIR was lodged on June 10, 2017. We urge police that the victim be rescued.”
 
 Police said they had already questioned the main accused once and so far conducted raids in a dozen places. All these raids were being video-graphed. “We have submitted a report to the Calcutta High court,” said a senior officer. 
 
 
