TRICHY: A three-day training camp for strengthening farmers’ capacities in mixed cropping system as climate resilient approach, organised at   near   concluded on Thursday. The programme was jointly organised by ‘Kudumbam’, NGO working on organic farming, and NABARD to discuss the much needed scientific measures to be taken by farmers for battling the climate change and its impact in food production.

 Inaugurated by S Somasundaram, district development manager, NABARD, Pudukkottai, the programme highlighted the excessive and indiscriminate use of chemical fertilisers, pesticides, and subsequent impacts on soil health. Emphasising the need and responsibility of farmers to switch over for organic practices,   said, “Farmers should constantly study and observe the changes in climate conditions. Instead of the mono-cropping system, farmers may try focusing on a mixed-cropping system which is less risk but comes with multiple benefits since if one crop fails, the other may come to the aid.” Farmers participating in the sensitisation drive were also urged to harvest rainwater by digging ponds before the onset of monsoons. 
 
 “Net income from less than an acre cultivation in my land saw eight-fold surge soon after experimenting mixed cropping system through which as many as 13 types of crops including groundnut, sesame, shallot, cowpea, and red gram were cultivated along paddy. The mono-cropping system involving paddy cultivation is too risky considering the failing monsoons,” guest speaker,  , an organic farmer, said. Stating that the last decade experienced eight drought years which shows the increase in the frequency of drought,  , director,  , NGO working on organic farming said that farmers need to prepare themselves to adapt to such situations by observing and trying innovative farming efforts. Farmers during the programme were taken to   village to study the fields in order to practically demonstrate the mixed cropping system adopted by organic farmers in the village. Organisers said that the 50 participants have shown interest to adapt mixed cropping system and also to spread awareness.
 
 
