NEW DELHI: The two potential bidders for   — IndiGo and   (SIA) JV   — have applied for international rights to spread their wings. IndiGo, which has been flying its single-aisle A-320s to neighbouring countries, has now sought clearance to operate wide-body aircraft to a large number of European sectors like London ( ), Manchester, Birmingham, Brussels, Milan, Rome, Zurich, Madrid and points in France and Germany.

 Vistara wants to start international operations using its A-320s to a number of places in Gulf and southeast Asia like Hong Kong, Singapore, Bangkok and Dubai. The proposed routes given by IndiGo to aviation ministry for clearance include connecting metros to the European cities with daily to twice-a-daily flights on several sectors.
 
 However, both the airlines’ plans — which they hope to start implementing this year itself— hinge on whether they bid for AI and if the same is successful or not. Since AI has almost 50 widebody planes, the airline which gets the  , will not have to place order for twin-aisle planes for their medium-to longhaul flights. As a result, neither Vistara nor IndiGo have so far placed order for widebody planes.
 
 “You will see clarity within 15 days of AI’s winning bidder being decided as the other airline (which does not get the Maharaja) will have to place order for the big planes. IndiGo is already one of Airbus’ biggest customers and Vistara is part-owned by SIA. So getting wide-bodies for either will not be an issue,” said a person in the know.IndiGo did not comment on the issue.
 
 A spokesperson at Vistara said: “Our plan is to start international operations in the second half of this year with existing fleet of   A-320s and fly to destinations within aircraft’s range. We are reviewing the type of aircraft we will need to support our plans of international expansion so that we can commence medium-haul routes (between five and nine hours) after successfully launching the regional/short-haul international routes.”
 
 “Long haul flights are something we will continue to be interested in and will commence when the time is right. It is, however, premature to comment on the international routes we will be flying to. We will share details of our international operations strategy in due course of time,” she added.
 
 SIA is learnt to be very keen on AI and a successful bid could mean a quick ramp-up of Vistara’s international plans. IndiGo has 40% domestic market share and can provide “scissor” feed by flying in passengers on A-320s from across India into its desi international hub in time for providing them connections on widebodies from there to rest of the world — similar to what Emirates does in Dubai and Jet-Etihad in Abu Dhabi.
 
