By:
 

 HYDERABAD: Those heading to their offices on Monday morning had a harrowing time as protests by Home Guards brought traffic to its knees at  . 
 
 While Home Guards were protesting for their rights and urging the government to restore their service, motorists were left stranded in one of the city's busiest intersection.
 
 "I was going near   to pick up my child from his tuition classes, but I got late as I was caught in a terrible traffic jam at the crossing for over hours," said  , a local.
 
 While some bikers managed to wriggle their way out of the mess, most people in cars, buses and auto rickshaws were left stranded. 
 
 Angry passengers fumed and even took to  , including Twitter, to vent their anger.
 
 "The traffic was worse than Bangalore traffic. I was stranded in the jam for two hours, so please avoid this route," said Avinash K, on FM radio. There were over 30 protesters who kept police on their toes. 
 
 The group leader was also constantly threatening the police that he would harm himself, if his demands weren't met.
 
 As the entire police force was busy trying to bring a protester down from unipole, traffic was put on hold for quite a while in the area.
 
 "The protestors caused major chaos and many people faced inconvenience," said MN Anand Kumar, a sub inspector of Khairatabad police station.
 
 Many commuters were stuck in this area for hours together and though police tried to warn commuters through constant tweets about the areas, where traffic was slow, they could not help a major lot, as they were already caught in the middle of the mess. Even ambulances were redirected via other routes to ensure patients do not get stuck.
 
 "Since Khairatabad crossing has many adjoining roads, the spiralling effect of traffic jams were seen towards Raj Bhavan Road, Punjagutta and also towards Lakdikapul," said a police officer.
 
 The police eventually managed to clear the traffic and remove the protesters by 1:30pm. It was then safe for motorists to pass through the area.
 
 
