LUDHIANA: A day after high drama was witnessed at Government Primary School and Government Senior Secondary School in   on  , area MLA   lodged a complaint with the education minister and the education secretary against the heads of the institutes, accusing them of negligence. 

 The MLA said in his complaint on Wednesday, “The power supply was disconnected due to the non-payment of bills. But the school heads did not inform the education department. This caused harassment and inconvenience to students.”
 
 He has also sought an inquiry into the matter.
 
 Students faced a harrowing time on Tuesday when heads of the two schools clashed for holding classes in the same shift. While they were busy in verbal tourney, power went off. The institute had not paid the bill and was running on generator, which ran out of fuel. Soon, a protest ensued as the area politicians reached the spot. The protesters sat on the road and asked commuters to contribute for paying power bill. All this while, students were wiping off sweat.
 
 The schools are being run in two shifts, morning and evening, from the same building. But for the past few months heads of both the institutes have been at loggerheads to get the morning shift.
 
 The MLA (East) said, “The school’s electricity bill has not been paid for the past one year. But the two heads did not inform the department. The government provides funds after receiving a proposal. The schools, however, did not submit any. This is highly irresponsible of them. Besides, students had to suffer due to their Tuesday tiff, too.”
 
 “I have written to education minister   and education secretary   to conduct an inquiry and act against the guilty. On Wednesday, we also received complaints from parents against the teachers of the two schools,” he added. 
 
 The primary school has enrolment of 600 and senior secondary of 680. After the electricity supply was snapped, the teachers started making contributions to get diesel for generator.
 
 Students said they faced much inconvenience due to the power shutdown as the schools do not run generator for the whole day. Due to no power, they do not get drinking water and have to carry bottles. Besides, there was no water facility in washrooms due to the cut, they added.
 
 
