NEW DELHI: The capital saw   on Monday night as a   lashed late with the   touching a maximum of   around 11pm. While Delhi was prepared for something similar on Tuesday, it received a dust storm of a much  , with   recorded in parts of the national capital region, while winds blew at 35 km/hr on Tuesday night. 

 
 Met officials said while they had forecast a dust storm of speed touching close to 50 km/hr — a majority of the thunderstorm activity took place in the early hours of Tuesday itself, resulting in no activity in the afternoon.
 
 Six diversions were also reported on Monday night as the strong winds affected operations at the IGI airport, also causing delays. However, the intensity was much lower on Tuesday night.
 
 Forecast for Wednesday shows light rain and thunderstorm activity. However, Met officials said the wind speed is likely to be in a similar range of around 30-40 km/hr. “Most parts of northern India were hit by the dust storm and thunderstorm on Monday night itself and the intensity peaked at 11.03pm when the wind speed touched 64/km hr. These squall conditions also took place overnight and this is why there was no activity in the morning or afternoon as we had earlier forecast,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at the regional Met office.
 
 “Parts of Noida, Ghaziabad and north Delhi received light rain on Tuesday night and wind speed was close to 35 km/hr as another dust storm struck the capital, but this was lower in intensity and this activity is normal for May,” said Srivastava.
 
 On Monday, a number of agencies had geared up with a disaster management helpline activated, while government bodies issued advisories on what precautions could be taken. The Delhi Metro had also stated they would stop trains if wind speed exceeded 90 km/hr on Tuesday.
 
 The maximum temperature on Tuesday was recorded at 34.7 degrees Celsius — four notches below normal, while a similar maximum temperature is forecast for Wednesday. 
 
 Met officials said mercury will start rising again from Thursday as clear skies return to the capital.
 
 
