NEW DELHI: A popular   has been arrested on Friday night for thefts of high-end vehicles. The accused had employed a parking assistant-cum-taxi driver to steal the cars from parking lots in south Delhi. Police said that the men would sell the vehicles using forged papers from Vrindavan. 

 The assistant was also arrested. Four cars including a BMW and an Audi have been recovered from their possession.
 
 The taxi driver, Joy Vig, was allegedly caught with a stolen Innova Crysta car near Siri Fort on Friday. During interrogation, Vig said that he had stolen the cars for the astrologer, Nishit Sastri. A team was sent Sastri’s houses in Vrindavan where he was caught with the other stolen cars.
 
 Sastri is a popular face on TV channels that telecast religious programmes. DCP (south) Romil Baaniya said Vig used to work as a taxi driver and kept a watch out for high-end cars. Later, he would befriend the drivers and promised them a higher paying job. During the conversation he would ask the driver for a test drive of the vehicles and then flee with it.
 
 The accused would also not have problems in selling the cars this way, since the buyer would be convinced seeing the original car keys.
 
 “We are interrogating him further. The two are suspected to have sold several other high-end cars in UP using forged documents,” said DCP Baaniya.
 
 Vig has been arrested on charges of vehicle theft earlier as well. He would over-ride the security measures of the high-end cars and tamper the installed GPS devices to turn the vehicles invisible on the tracker maps.
 
 During interrogation, Sastri claimed to have an masters degree in chemical engineering from a college in Maharashtra and an MBA from IIM . He also claimed to run a atrology teaching centre in Mathura. He had taken a house on rent in Vrindavan from where he used run his astrology business and dealt in property.
 
 Police said that Sastri would go to the TV studios in new   everytime to project an image of immense popularity among followers. Cops might also question the producers of the TV shows to find out if they had any part in the thefts.
 
 
