INDORE: The vertical rise in   prices is giving sleepless nights to processing industries, where fuel is used as a   component for carrying out operations. 

 
 Rolling mills, manufacturers of tubes, tyres, plastics and automobiles have seen a jump of about 10 per cent in their   of operations due to the record high fuel prices.
 
 An industrialist OP Dhoot said, “Higher fuel prices are adversely hitting our business. Fuel is input of our raw material and in other processing industries.”
 
 Dhoot said the rise in fuel prices has escalated the cost of light diesel oil (LDO) which is primarily used in industrial applications. “We as a pipe manufacturers use LDO for normalizing tubes and bending them. Our process is incomplete without the use of LDO and such a steep price of fuel is hitting out business,” he said.
 
 LDO is used in earth movers, pump sets, power generation, marine engines, industrial application, heating purposes among others. Industry players said fuel is also used in running generators during power failure. 
 
 According to leading industrialists, the cost of the product may also go up due to the jump in the input cost. They said fuel is also used to run furnaces by steel rolling mills, processing industries and confectioneries. 
 
 Pithampur Audhyogik Sangathan president Gautam Kothari said, “Plastic industries are the most affected because of the record high fuel prices. Fuel is an integral part of their processing operations and a sudden jump in prices has escalated their cost of operations.”
 
 Rolling mills also uses a large quantity of fuel for processing. Besides the freight cost has also jumped manifold on record fuel prices. 
 
 Fuel prices in Madhya Pradesh are about Rs 2 per litre higher than Delhi, Haryana, Punjab and the difference from   is about Rs 5 per litre because the state government has imposed 28 per cent VAT, 1 per cent cess and 4 per cent additional state tax on petrol, while on diesel VAT is 22 per cent, according to market estimates. 
 
 As on May 29, petrol price was Rs 84.15 per litre and diesel was Rs 73.06 per litre. 
 
 
