Patiala: Even as the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is struggling against an acute financial crisis that has forced the authorities to apply for a Rs 1,000 crore loan last month to meet its day-to-day expenditures, government departments across the state owe the power utility Rs 1119.20 crore in pending bills.

 According to the updated records of the PSPCL, government departments in the border zone of the state are the biggest defaulters, who have to pay Rs 323.36 crore to the PSPCL, followed by the departments in the southern zone that owe the corporation Rs 315.59 crore. The next in line are the departments in the western zone as their pendency is of Rs 267.21 crore while in the northern zone the total pending bills are of Rs 153 crore. In the central zone, the government departments have to pay Rs 60.04 crore to the PSPCL.
 
 The biggest defaulter is the department of water supply and sanitation, the total pendency of which is Rs 484.91 crore, while the second being the department a local government with a bill pendency of Rs 200.24 crore. The department of health and family welfare has to pay Rs 76.66 crore towards power bills. The department of industries and commerce has to release Rs 73.52 crore, the PWD has Rs 54.56 crore, the department of general administration Rs 25.68 crore and the rural development and panchayats department Rs 29.90 crore.
 
 There are 44 more departments on the list, of which nine have zero pendency of power bills. These include employment generation and training, department of labour, NRI affairs, parliamentary affairs, printing and stationery, programme implementation, science technology and environment, investment promotion, economic and statistical organisation. However, the remaining have a power bill pendency ranging between Rs 10.14 lakh and Rs 11.87 crore.
 
 Sources in the PSPCL said the corporation had to seek loans of Rs 2,800 crore during the current fiscal to meet day-to-day expenditures. The utility had run into financial trouble last month when it had failed to release the salaries of its employees, who had held massive protests outside the main gates of the PSPCL. Besides, the government also has to pay Rs 5,866.71 crore against the power subsidies given to various categories of consumers, which were calculated at Rs 11,542 crore by the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commissioner for 2017-18.
 
 Director, finance, S C Arora said that the bill recovery was a continuous process and in the last one month some recovery amount had been realised. But the corporation is yet to receive a major portion of the pending bills from the government departments. He said that the corporation had already shot letters to the heads of the departments concerned, asking them to clear the bills and the matter had also been brought to the notice of the state government.
 
 
