MARGAO: Known as “the granary of Salcete”, Curtorim is on its way to being declared as a biodiversity heritage site (BHS) under the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, and will be the first village to get such a recognition in the state. Member secretary of the   (GSBBD) Pradip   told TOI that though the public consultation process over the proposal has almost concluded, the board will wait for few more days to facilitate receipt of more inputs from the public before submitting the proposal to the state government for approval. 

 
 
  
 
 The Biological Diversity Act, 2002, empowers the state government to notify areas of biodiversity importance as BHS in consultation with local bodies, in an attempt to preserve local habitats rich in plants and animal life. Such sites can be terrestrial, aquatic, coastal, inland and marine ecosystem.
 
 “A presentation was recently held for the benefit of stakeholders — village biodiversity management committee (BMC), elected representatives, volunteer organisations, etc — and all of them gave the proposal their go ahead. We have now decided to give some more time to receive public inputs, say 8-10 days, following which the proposal will be sent to the government recommending that the identified locations be declared as biodiversity heritage sites as per the act,” Sarmokadam said.
 
 After recommendation from the board and in consultation with the Centre, the state government can issue a notification regarding the biodiversity heritage sites.
 
 “This may take time,” Sarmokadam said, “ranging from one to three months or more, but we will do it in the shortest possible time.” 
 
 The   in its proposal has included six big lakes of the village — Mai Tollem, Gud Tollem, Angddi Tollem, Ralloi Tollem, Sonbem Tollem and Colomba Tollem — along with associated khazan areas, mangroves and agro-ecosystems as the extent of BHS.
 
 The BMC’s proposal points out that Curtorim village has a long standing legacy of rich natural and cultural heritage. “Though it has been able to preserve and sustain age old systems — khazan ecosystem, lake ecosystem, histo-socio-cultural monuments and practices — slowly, with development, one can notice the metamorphosis that would erase the rich culture ethos and harmonious cultural biodiversity. There are multiple threats to the site and therefore there is a strong need to declare this site as BHS for conserving its rich floral and faunal diversity as sustaining the unique systems of management of resources and agricultural practices.”
 
 Once an eco-system is declared as BHS, the local population will be involved in the conservation of the site. Once notified by the state government, the   may support the initial establishment of BHS financially.
 
 “The state-level monitoring committee will ensure that the ecosystem of the BHS remains intact. No activities detrimental to the fragile ecosystem will be allowed in the vicinity of the site,” Sarmokadam said
 
 The board has so far received applications from only two more panchayats, Rivona and Chicalim. 
 
 
