CHENNAI: Thousands of residents in areas surrounding the Aavin   in Sholinganallur are fuming. Failing to elicit action from officials about the unbearable   emanating from the sprawling unit on Elcot Avenue, they have now raised an online petition on Change.org.

 Many say the stench that had assailed their senses for the past many years, forcing them to remain indoors for most odf the day, has intensified over the last two years, leaving them uncomfortable even within their homes.
 
 “These days, there is a smell of rotting   through the day. It is indescribably pathetic and there is no respite even when we are indoors. Earlier, it wasn’t as bad as it used to be there on and off,” said Y Sujatha, a resident of an apartment complex located nearly 1.2km from the factory. “Ours is the farthest apartment complex from the factory but there is no escape. The ones that lie nearest to the factory suffer unimaginably,”
 
 Several residents said they could’t see milk being dumped anywhere around the area, but that the stink of rotting milk was unmistakable and wafted through the vicinity.
 
 Some said the stink stopped for a day or two after they lodged complaints in writing only to resume again. Earlier reports had claimed that dairy sludge was dumped outside the factory premises near Aavin's milk factory in Madhavaram.
 
 Milk processing, as per the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, is a ‘red’ category industry – among the highly polluting ones. Due to the presence of dissolved sugars, proteins and fats, even letting out waste from a milk-processing unit needs to be done with care to decrease the biological and chemical oxygen demand levels, studies suggest.
 
 Residents in Sholinganallur say they doubt if environmental norms of effluent treatment are being followed in such units. R Ramaswamy, who lives in the area, said emails about the overwhelming stench parked   vehicles choking traffic in Sholinganallur were sent to many senior officials of Tamil Nadu Co-operative Milk Producers' Federation Limited (Aavin). “Steps were taken to remove parked vehicles but the stench persists,” he said.
 
 A senior Aavin official, when contacted, denied having any knowledge on the issue and was not available for a comment later about similar complaints from residents around the Madhavaram factory.
 
 
