RANCHI: Union minister for consumer affairs, food and public distribution Ram Vilas   on Friday said the Centre will soon introduce an ordinance to ensure that Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe government employees get reservation in promotion even if they lose a court battle for such a benefit. 

 Talking to media persons, Paswan said a committee under Union home minister   has already been formed to review the issue and a review petition has been filed in court. 
 
 "The court had issued a three-point guideline for reservation in promotion under which a candidate has to prove efficiency, backwardness and representation and we believe there is no problem with these points. But still, if the final judgment goes against the interest of the Dalits, we are not going to shy away from introducing an ordinance," Paswan said.
 
 Pawan, who is a Dalit himself, was in Ranchi to showcase achievements of the central government on completion of its four years in office.
 
 He also defended the   government in terms of the stand that it took on the alleged dilution of the SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act by a court order. "The government decided to file a review petition and we did so, but the opposition tried to create a situation in which people are made to feel that the government is against Dalit interests," he said, enumerating a long list of activities that the   government did to honour Baba Sahab Bhim Rao Ambedkar.
 
 Paswan recalled that in 2007, BSP leader   stated twice in public that the SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act was being misused and that superintendent of police level officers should investigate such cases. "This time, it was not a political decision but it came from the court," he said.
 
 Commenting on the debacle that   faced in the recent parliamentary and assembly bypolls, Paswan said they want the opposition to gain some strength. "People must have noticed that after 2014 general election, the opposition was so weak that they do not even have a leader of opposition. We are happy if they are increasing their strength because a strong opposition is required for a healthy democracy," he said. 
 
 On introduction of DBT in PDS, Paswan said the scheme was not very encouraging in Nagri block of Ranchi district. 
 
 
