Bhopal: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday kicked off a campaign for the de-silting of Kolans river — a tributary of Upper Lake — after a Jan Sansad at Eitkhedi village. Eitkhedi lies on the banks of Kolans. The Upper Lake — lifeline of Bhopal — gets water from Kolans during monsoon season. Launching the campaign, Chouhan dug some earth out the dry river bed while chanting — Bade Talaab Ki Jai. The audience joined him. Addressing the Sansad, the chief minister said that the ground water level has been constantly declining in many places. At some places, water is not available even at 1,500 feet below the ground level, he said, adding that a campaign will be launched in state for water conservation. Old ponds and rivers will be deepened and Rs 500 crore will be spent to construct new ponds in the state, said Chouhan. Under attack for his Narmada Seva Yatra last year, he also outlined benefits of the rally and said there are “some people who only play politics” — without taking any names. The chief minister said that like last year, a massive tree plantation campaign would begin from July 15 this year. Talking about last year’s plantation driver, the chief minister said that as many as 35 lakh people had planted 6 crore trees on the banks of river Narmada and the catchment area. He said that 80 percent of the saplings planted have survived and if the survival rate is 50 percent, the entire operation would be a job well done. He also said that the awareness created during Narmada Yatra will make people conscious about river conservation and now they refrain from polluting rivers. Visarjan kund, puja kund, mukti dham and toilets have been constructed on the banks of the river to ensure clean surroundings. Alcohol shops were removed with 5km of the area and the people now worship the river in the right sense, he said. Chouhan also lauded the shramdan started for deepening of rivers of all 313 blocks by the Jan Abhiyan Parishad for water conservation. Vice president of the Jan-Abhiyan Parishad Pradeep Pandey, Swami Akhileshwaranand, chairman of Gau-Sanvardhan Board Rameshwar Sharma MLA also addressed the gathering.