KOLKATA: With the early onset of summer coinciding with school’s annual and board examinations, parents are worried about their children’s health.

 March is yet to begin but the mercury already touched 35.5 degrees Celsius on Sunday, five degrees above the normal mark. The only hope, as the weather office forecast, is that Monday will see a cloud cover, arresting the temperature rise over the next two days. “A cyclonic circulation over northern Chhattisgarh is expected to cause rain and thundershowers in neighbouring Jharkhand on Monday. This weather system will impact Kolkata in the form of cloud cover. As a result, the temperature will drop by about one degree on Monday and Tuesday before it starts rising again on Wednesday,” said GK Das, director, (weather), Regional Meteorological Centre.
 
 
 The heat and humidity might not be unbearable yet but a large number of students have been falling sick over the past few weeks, down with viral fever and stomach disorder. While ISC exams have already begun,   will start today. Madhyamik and Higher Secondary exams of the state board and CBSE X and XII boards exams are slated for March. With several institutes already coming across children complaining of fever, joint pain and severe bouts of loose motions, some principals have even issued advisory to parents, especially concerned about board examinees. “We have asked students to drink plenty of water and keep away from aerated drinks. We have also asked them to be careful about the water that they drink because kids are often affected by water-borne diseases at this time. We have asked kids, especially the board examinees, to avoid going out in the heat,” said Apeejay School principal  .
 
 Even doctors agreed that children are particularly prone to fall ill in this weather. “In this kind of weather, kids can catch upper respiratory tract infection, chicken pox and gastroenteritis. Parents should take sufficient care so that their wards do not miss out on exams,” said Dr  , senior consultant (medicine) at Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences.
 
 Srutanik  , who will appear for his CBSE Class X Board exams from  , said he was completely avoiding outside and junk food. Instead, his parents have restricted him to simple, home-cooked food. He yearns to play football but he has stopped going out in the field for now, lest it drains him. He has also been drinking plenty of fluids to stay hydrated. The regimen is similar for his younger brother, Sumedhik, who is appearing for his annual examinations for Class IX.
 
 “While drinking boiled water is ideal to keep gastroenteritis at bay, a child with respiratory infection should be isolated so that the infection does not spread to others. Affected children can wear a mask so that they do not infect other kids at school,” Dr Biswas added.
 
