MUMBAI: Observing that the state cannot discriminate in granting maternity leave, the   has allowed a member of a consumer panel to take   for six months.

 “In our opinion, there can be no discrimination in the matter of granting the maternity leave benefit of 180 days to a member of the   who is appointed on a   of five years only on the grounds that she is not a government servant,” said a division bench of Justices Shantanu Kemkar and Makarand Karnik in its May 4 order.
 
 The court’s verdict came on a petition by Prerna Kalunkhe-Kulkarni, a member of the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum in Nashik, for a direction to grant her maternity paid leave for six months. After 18 weeks of pregnancy, on December 4, 2017, she wrote to the president of the state consumer disputes redressal commission to grant her maternity leave. Since she got no response, she moved the high court.
 
 The state’s advocate said she was denied 180-day maternity leave as she was appointed on a tenure post and the   (Leave) Rules 1981 do not apply to her. But her advocate argued that she has to be regarded as a government employee.
 
 The judges noted that Supreme Court has extended benefits under the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961, even to women employees of municipal corporations working on daily wages and HCs too have allowed petitions to grant maternity benefits to employees hired on contract or on ad hoc basis. 
 
 The judges said in Maharashtra benefits under the Act have been made available only to government servants under the 1981 Rules. “The benefits of enhanced maternity leave to women employees are undoubtedly... intended to give them equal opportunities in public employment,” the bench said, adding that the state’s stand cannot be countenanced as it would amount to discrimination against women employees only because they are on tenure posts. 
 
 Allowing her petition the judges said, “For the purpose of granting maternity leave, the petitioner is entitled to 180 days’ maternity leave since she is working in a tenure post of the district forum established by the government.”
 
 
