NAGPUR: The   (NU) is likely to rollback the steep   that was recently approved by its management council following stiff opposition from students. Not just this, the backlash has also forced the NU administration to revise the existing tariff it was levying on its postgraduate students and scholars.

 Students Welfare Director Dilip Kawadkar confirmed that the new fee has been held back and the issue would be placed before the management council on May 8. The decision taken on January 22 but notified on April 6 by the finance and accounts section. It was uploaded on April 19 which led to the protest the next day. 
 
 Last month, the NU had hiked the hostel fee for the upcoming session Rs8,000 (single bed), Rs7,000 (double) and Rs6,000 (triple) for PG students and Rs25,000 for research fellows. It was also charging Rs2,000 deposits from boy and girl inmates besides the monthly fee of Rs1,800 and Rs2,100 respectively.
 
 Hundreds of students are staying at the Girls Hostel, Boys Hostel, LIT Hostel and PG & Pharmacy Hostel. The condition of these facilities is in a shambles and students have often reported about poor infrastructure and quality of food served at the mess. The mess contractor has not been providing the quality and quantity of food as per specification in the agreement, students alleged, as there was no nutritionist or medical officer to check it.
 
 When the NU announced the fee hike, the inmates under the banner of Babasaheb Ambedkar Students Association (BASA) staged a strong protest at the NU main building the next day.
 
 The students pointed out that the hostel buildings were in a dilapidated condition and NU should not ask for more fee. “In fact, we told the authorities that we were ready to pay the hiked fee in case the university provided better facilities on par with other universities across the state,” BASA executive president   said.
 
 Vice chancellor SP Kane and Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is chairman of Hostel Committee, didn’t answer to TOI’s calls.
 
 A top officer said the VC had assured the agitating students that the administration would have a rethink on the decision. “If the university didn’t want to change the decision, why would it refer the fee hike back to the management council? It is likely that the hike will be rollbacked,” the officer said.
 
 Besides Bankar, the BASA delegation which met the VC last month included its president Sameer Mahajan, secretary Ashish Titare, Mahesh Bansod, Amit Chapate, Mahesh Lade, Bhushan Waghmare and Snehal Waghmare.
 
 
