MUMBAI: At the first-ever meeting in recent memory to uphold the cause of public transport in the city, novelist Kiran   exhorted Mumbaikars to unite against the possible privatisation of BEST, fleet reduction and further fare hikes. 

 "This is just the beginning of several meetings required to put pressure on government and civic authorities to save BEST and restore its lost glory. We need hundreds of citizens to come out and voice their opinion in favour of workers, opposing any attempt to privatise the transport body," Nagarkar said.
 
 The novelist, who recently wrote an open letter to   chief Ajoy Mehta on BEST, said a reduction of bus routes and services were uncalled for. "The fleet size and services should be increased not by just 10, 20 or 30%, but by 500%. We should encourage everyone in the city to use BEST buses and keep private vehicles and two-wheelers at bay," he said, giving examples of advanced nations where even the richest are seen taking buses to work. "When I would need transport the most-to visit a doctor-BEST buses would come to my rescue. BEST buses would be punctual, ferrying me to my destination," Nagarkar said.
 
 Just like the campaign for Asifa, there should be a strong and continuous movement to save our BEST buses, also in the interest of bus workers who never fail to serve the city, Nagarkar said. The best example was of the last monsoon when BEST came to the rescue of commuters stranded in waterlogged areas. Nagarkar said the fight should also be against pollution and creating more space for public transport so that buses can run at high speed.
 
 Vidyadhar Date of Aamchi Mumbai, Aamchi BEST alleged that privatisation was a "massive fraud" and has not been successful in other cities. "You get staffers from private agencies who are not sensitive to commuter needs, unlike BEST staff whom Mumbaikars can trust. Also, buses will no longer run in the true spirit of public service once privatisation seeps in," he said.
 
 Rashmi Divekar, who is part of a citizens group, said, "We had planned the first public meeting at BEST colony in Bhoiwada, Dadar (east). But the BEST management denied us permission and instead posted a security vehicle to stop our entry in the colony. We are just demanding basic rights for workers and this kind of ban on entry is unwarranted."
 
 
