NAGPUR: As demanded by Nagpur junior   principals, the state education department has allowed admission to Std XI bifocal courses to be completed before that of general science. Nagpur colleges, which joined Maharashtra’s online Common Admission Procedure (CAP) system just last year, were vehemently opposed to the ‘general science-first, bifocal-later’ system and lobbied hard to get it changed. Nagpur’s version of CAP (2004-2016) always had bifocal seats being filled first through order of merit, after which general science admissions started. 

 Madhusudhan Mude, office bearer of Nagpur District Headmasters Association (NDHA), said, “Mumbai and Pune had that online CAP system under whose purview we came in 2017. The system is flawed because if a student took admission in general science in ‘College A’ but did not qualify for their bifocal course then he is stuck there. Rules do not allow for change of college within city limits, which is very unfair for the student. The reality is that students preparing for competitive exams are interested only in bifocal courses.” 
 
 TOI had extensively covered the issue highlighting the concerns of principals regarding the ‘bifocal-first’ issue and education officials say that it was the Nagpur factor which made the state change its policy. An education official, who did not wish to be identified, said, “Nagpur people got this thing done. Other cities had no problem with that particular rule.”
 
 TOI tried reaching state education director Gangadhar   for a comment but he was unavailable. Mude said that during a recent meeting they both talked about the rule change. Mude, said, “At that time the rule had not been changed but Mhamane mentioned that he has read TOI reports from Nagpur about demands made by principals. The news clippings are sent to Pune HQ every week which helped our demand and we are thankful to TOI for it.”
 
 Now for CAP students will participate in ‘round zero’ wherein they will choose colleges based on the bifocal course preference. An education official, said, “This way they will at least get the course they want to study, if not the specific college. After this process is done the general round will start.”
 
 Now that entire CAP is online, every state board (STD X) student from city schools has to register online in the first phase. Then after SSC results are declared his marks are to be entered in the online form and submitted for preparation of merit list.
 
 
