KOCHI: The Kerala state pollution control board ( ) on Friday issued closure notice to   on charges of dumping waste into the   at  .

 The notice was issued by KSPCB's surveillance centre engineer P B Sreelakshmy after their team caught the company staff dumping waste into the river on Thursday night. A stretch of the river had turned black near the regulator-cum-bridge at Pathalam near Eloor industrial belt on Wednesday and Thursday. The locals who noticed the discolouration of waters at Pathalam and Eloor alleged that carbon dust with a thick film of oil was floating on the river stretch. The   officials from the surveillance centre had collected samples from the area.
 
 "We have seen them dump waste and on that basis, we have issued notice. But there is no evidence that they are responsible for the discolouration. Also, we haven't found any outlet from any of the companies nearby," said Sreelakshmy. The PCB officials during the inspection had found a pipe through which the waste is being pumped.
 
 
  
 
 She said that the waste disposal machinery in this company was not working properly and added they would carry out further inspections in the coming days. According to sources, PCB officials submitted a detailed report regarding the discolouration and the lab reports regarding inspection carried out in the industrial units in the area to the district administration on Friday.
 
 Last year during the same time, the river had turned black for almost 10 days leading to tension in the area. A clash had erupted between the locals and the contractor's men after they tried open the shutters.
 
 Meanwhile, the activists of Periyar Malineekarana Virudha Samithi said that steps should be taken to ensure the proper functioning of a 24-hour monitoring system to check dumping of industrial effluents into the Periyar. The nine surveillance cameras situated in the area around the banks of Periyar have not been working for the past six months. "We have been demanding setting up a 24-hour monitoring committee consisting of PCB officials, locals and environmentalists. But this has not materialized so far. The online monitoring system installed to alert the level of pollution is also not working. When we complain they will carry out an inspection for namesake," said  , member of the samithi.
 
 Irrigation department officials said that they had written a letter seeking the consent of the state government to constitute a 24/7 monitoring committee in Periyar last year itself.
 
 
