Noida: A Noida-based   who funded a gang of three   for stealing more jewellery was arrested on Thursday. The snatchers were also nabbed, police said.

 According to cops, the gang was involved in at least 150 snatchings across NCR. They used to take gold loans against stolen jewellery from a non-banking financial company and share the money. And over the past one year, they had taken Rs 7.2 lakh loan from the company in seven transactions.
 
 The jeweller has been identified as 26-year-old Dipankar Sarkar, from West Bengal, who owns a shop in Chowda village in Noida Sector 22. While two of the snatchers — Nikky (24) and Shoaib (25) —are residents of Ghaziabad’s Khoda Colony, the third gang member,   Yadav (26), is from Bisrakh.
 
 Apart from the jewellery deposited in the Manappuram Finance Limited’s Sector 22 branch against the loan, two bikes — Yamaha R15 and Bajaj Pulsar — three gold chains, a country-made gun and six live cartridges were recovered from them.
 
 According to police, they received a tip-off about the movement of snatchers in the area. “We immediately deployed a police team near Khoda T-Point. Three suspects came on one bike to hand over some stolen jewellery to Sarkar, who had reached there on another bike. We immediately apprehended them,” said Ajay Pal Sharma, SSP (Noida).
 
 Sarkar told cops that Nikky, Shoaib and Saurabh had come to his shop last year to sell some stolen gold and silver jewellery. He bought the valuables, but soon realised that those were stolen items. Instead of informing police, he extended his hand to join the gang.
 
 Police said the gang would hand over the stolen jewellery to Sarkar who would then change their shape and size. By depositing the jewellery, they took gold loan from Manappuram Finance and shared the same. While Sarkar kept 50%, the remaining money was shared by the trio, police said.
 
 “I had financed the two bikes used in the crime. One bike was registered in my name while the other one in Shoaib’s name,” Sarkar told cops. The snatchers sometimes used fake number plates to elude cops.
 
 Deepak Sharma, branch manager of Manappuram Finance, told cops that Sarkar had deposited his identity card with the valuables, while taking loans and hence he did not suspect any foul play.
 
 A case has been registered against the four accused under sections 394 (robbery/snatching), 411 (dishonesty in receiving stolen property) and 414 (assisting in concealing of stolen property) and also under Arms Act at Sector 58 police station. The accused were produced in a local court and sent to judicial custody for 14 days.
 
 
