CHANDIGARH: Situated in the heart of the city, Lalchand Research Library at  , Sector 10, has been preserving rare pieces of Indian literary history in the form of ancient Vedic manuscripts that were rescued and brought to India from Pakistan at the time of Partition.

 The library, that was established in 1917 in Lahore by the DAV College Management Trust and Society after the name of Rai Bahadur Lal Chand, then president of the trust, houses a collection of almost 8,360 rare manuscripts that were a part of its collection dating back to the early 1900s. Apart from the manuscripts that had survived and breathed in the care of the library for so long, as many as 10,303 rare books are also part of the library’s inventory, thus, creating a sanctuary for Indian ancient thought and culture.
 
 The manuscripts were collected by the efforts of late Ram Gopal Shastri, Ram Labhya Goswami, Hans Raj and Bhajan Lal from the nooks and corners of various villages in Lahore and close by, to collect lost pieces of written text as part of the greater cultural wealth. However, at the time of the exodus brought on during Partition, a lot of these valuable manuscripts were lost or burnt, but many still managed to ferry across the border with its custodians.
 
 Soon after arriving in India, these manuscripts were kept at Vishveshwaranand Vishwa Bandhu Institute of Sanskrit and Indological Studies, Hoshiarpur. Realising that they were an inherent property of DAV society, principal of the college in 1980s Dr   brought them to Chandigarh. However, due to paucity of funds needed for their upkeep, many of them deteriorated. Later, RC Jeevan, who was college principal from 1997-2001, was responsible in establishing a research centre based on them.
 
 As many as 6,462 manuscripts are paper based, while 1,898 are written on palm leaves in various Indian and South Indian scripts namely Devanagari, Sharada, Grantha, Gurumukhi, Utkal, Banga, Nandi, Nagari, Kannada, Malyalam, Tamil and Vartala. The oldest manuscripts date back to the 15th century, written on birch ‘patra’ (bark).
 
 Apart from Kautilya’s Arthshastra, Valmiki’s Ramayana, Mahabharata and the Bhagvad Gita, Shankar Bhashyam among many others, the manuscripts also comprise Ashvalayan Sharut Shutra and  , dating back to the 15th century. According to assistant librarian at DAV College Rajni Jindal, the Shraut Shutra is considered the first ‘Shutra’ (ritual manuals) of Rig Veda.
 
 “Our college has a collection of these priceless manuscripts, which otherwise would be worth millions. We have tried to maintain them over the years. It feels to great to know they are so close to us,” said principal BC Josan.
 
 Being centuries old, the manuscripts require special chemicals and pigments like lemon grass oil, a coat of coal dust, neem leaves and naphthalene balls once every 3-4 years for their upkeep. Moreover, thumal crystal is also used to ward off insects and worms. However, to increase the life of paper manuscripts, they were laminated in 2003.
 
 The collection of these manuscripts is being digitised with the use of 600 API scanner under the aegis of Prakash Lohia, vice-pesident of DAV College managing committee, New Delhi. The digitisation project has been funded by Indorama Corporation. As many three lakh pages of 6,000 manuscripts have been digitised in the course of last three years.
 
 The Lalchand Research Library, hence, has become a magnet for research scholars pouring in from the southern states and abroad, to come and study these ancient texts of wisdom.
 
