PUNE:   and fine   are the biggest interest areas for students in the recently held state-level aptitude test, but school teachers and educationists feel that counselling from standard VIII is necessary for parents and students for them to take up subjects in standard XI that suits their potential. 

 Overcoming the conventional mindset of taking up science if a student has scored good marks is the biggest challenge, educationists said.
 
 “I always wanted to do something with numbers. I was a good student in school. While in standard X, our class teacher sought to know my future plans and I said I wanted to take up accounts. In the next parent-teacher meeting, she talked to my parents and told them to “change my mind”. After the results, I took up science and enrolled for engineering,” said M Iyer. He dropped out after failing twice in his second year and took up commerce.
 
 A parent of a standard X student who did not wish to be named had a different perspective. “At the age of 14-15, students are too young to know what they want. Parents advice students to take up science after standard X so that the student has more options for entrance exams. The problem is that the admission process in India is rigid. If you haven’t taken certain subjects in the previous standard, it does not matter how well you know the subjects related to the entrance exam, you are not eligible to apply. This makes parents cautious. We want the best for our children,” said the mother. Her daughter is awaiting the CBSE standard X results.
 
  whose   along with government departments had conducted the aptitude test for over 17 lakh students from aided schools in the state said the biggest challenge was to convince parents to let students take up a subject where their interests and aptitude lies.
 
 Matin Mujawar, an activist with Shikshan Hakka Manch, who also conducts classes for poor children, said, “In my experience, I have realized that educated parents are hell-bent on getting their child admitted to the science stream. Uneducated ones can be convinced and sometimes they themselves prefer commerce for their children as they feel there are more job opportunities.”
 
 The battle is easier for students who want to take up commerce, but arts often gets the step-motherly treatment. The data revealed in the aptitude test says that if 21% students got commerce as their interest, arts was close behind with 18% students showing interest in it.
 
 “The problem with arts is that in India, unless you are going for civil services, people don’t consider arts as a ‘serious subject’. Job opportunities are few. Teaching jobs have dried up or poorly paid. We need an interdisciplinary approach right from standard XI and make leniency in the eligibility criteria for entrance exams,” a ZP teacher said.
 
 
