HYDERABAD: The   has decided to approach   and Union finance minister Arun Jaitley against the TRS government and demand appropriate action against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for fudging records.

 “The damning   report is a slap in the face of the TRS government. It has exposed the mismanagement, financial inefficiency and dubious governance of Chandrasekhar Rao, who has lost moral authority to continue as CM. He must step down immediately,” the party said.
 
 TPCC chief official spokesperson   told a media conference here on Friday that the state budget has been manipulated and capital receipts have been shown as revenue receipts. “Budgetary deficit was being shown as revenue surplus,” he said.
 
 “It is a shame on the part of the TRS government to have indulged in fudging facts and figures. This is a big scam similar to that of the   case. As per section 409 of IPC, KCR and his government is liable for breach of trust,” he said. He alleged that the KCR government is taking loans to feed contractors and take commissions from them. “KCR’s irresponsibility and greed is sabotaging the future of Telangana,” he charged.
 
 He said the Congress will approach Niti Aayog and other agencies to take action against KCR for his financial fraud and fudging figures. Stating that the CAG report has proved that KCR development model is a myth and full of lies, he said KCR has cheated Dalits yet again by not spending budgetary allocations meant for their welfare.
 
 “It has also been proved that irrigation projects and   are money spinners for TRS leadership.IT minister KT Ramarao must explain the reasons for his failure in realising ITIR,” he said.
 
 CAG has also exposed the fact that Telangana had exceeded the FRBM limit and it was inappropriate on its part to take loans by misleading the banks. CAG report has only endorsed the views of what Congress has been stating since four years about the financial mismanagement by the KCR government.
 
 “KCR and his leaders will be behind bars for their breach of trust as per IPC 409,” he added. Sravan demanded that an exclusive assembly session be conducted to discuss the CAG report.
 
