PUNE: Travelling in state transport buses is set to become costly as the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is planning to hike fares in view of the rising diesel price. 

 Officials from the transport utility on Tuesday said fares on all the routes across the state would be increased and the new fare structure would be ready by the first week of June. “The rising price of diesel has forced the transport body to hike the bus fares,” they added.
 
 “The diesel price is at an all-time high and we are facing its adverse effects. We purchase around 14 lakh litres of diesel every day for our buses and with the rising price, we are staring at a loss of Rs 1.50 crore each day. If things continue like this, by the end of the year, we will be looking at an additional loss of Rs 460 crore. Things cannot continue like this as we have to pay salaries of our employees, hence the decision to increase the fares has been taken,” said an MSRTC official from its headquarters in Mumbai.
 
 The official said the transport body was working on the new fare structure. “We will announce the new fares within two weeks. We know that passengers will not be happy with the hike in fares, but we do not have any option,” the official pointed out. Fuel prices have touched a record high with diesel being sold in Mumbai for Rs 72.48 per litre
 
 Sanjay Jha, who shuttles between Pune and Mumbai every week to catch up with his family, hoped that the increase in bus fares is not too high.
 
 “My family lives in Navi Mumbai while I work here in Pune. Every week I go to Navi Mumbai in an MSRTC bus. This is bad news for me. If they increase the fare by 30% for example, I will have no other option but to travel on my two wheeler. These price hikes affect common people very badly,” Jha, who works in a private firm, said.
 
 Atul Sagar, who travelled to Mumbai recently, said, “The state government must look at the private cab operators. I travelled to Mumbai on a shared basis for Rs 350, but they have not increased the fare citing the rise in fuel prices.” 
 
 The MSRTC operates a total of 19,000 buses every day and 70 lakh people travel by these buses daily. The buses ply on 18,000 routes across the state.
 
 
