CHANDIGARH: In a first, the   of Rs 5 lakh on intramural grant - internal grant given to PGIMER - has been removed to promote research. As per the proposal, more than Rs 5 lakh would be sanctioned for each special project. Also, research meetings would be held regularly to check duplication. 

 "We have formed a committee comprising young faculty who will focus on different types of cancer. Those having unique projects shall be given more than Rs 5 lakh funding," said   research dean  .
 
 Over 75% of the annual budget sanctioned to the institute goes into the salary of its employees. 
 
 PGI will emphasize on translational research instead of publications. 
 
 "We want to serve the mission of affordable health care. Cancer is one of the most challenging public health issues," said Rajwanshi.
 
 Every day, there are over 7,000 OPD patients visiting PGI from across the country and the footfall is expected to increase in the coming years. The institute has been not concentrating on translational research due to the patient rush. 
 
 "How can we do research when we do not get time from the OPDs and the emergency? PGI is a referral hospital, yet we get majority of the cases which are not referred here, but we cannot refuse to treat the patients," said a faculty member.
 
 Once the cancer projects are completed, other such projects will be initiated. The research dean also agrees that there is a lack of coordination between clinicians and non-clinicians. 
 
 "Often, the right hand does not know what the left is doing. To overcome this, we will hold regular meetings with the faculty. This will bridge the divide between the clinicians and non-clinicians," said Rajwanshi. Officials admit that they are short on funds and there is no separate provision for research grants. 
 
 "Most of the grants are received from agencies like the Indian Council of Medical Research, Department of Science and Technology and Department of Biotechnology. For this year, the total grants sanctioned to the institute have been the highest at Rs 2.83 crore, while intramural grants have not exceeded Rs 5 lakh," said a senior doctor.
 
 
