PUNE:   has been the hub of   crafts in the city for nearly 150 years. And over the years, the market has only flourished, thanks to the artisans adapting and evolving to meet the changing demands.

 While in the early days, utilitarian bamboo baskets — for carrying and storing vegetables — kept the market going, in the past two-three decades, functionality has married aesthetics to generate huge demand for bamboo decorative items. In fact, so huge has been the demand, that the sales at Burud Aali to have doubled in 20-30 years. Lampshades, rolling curtains or decorative baskets... the artisans now make both individual and commercial decorative products.
 
 Janardhan More, 61, is a fifth-generation bamboo artisan, and has seen the market change and grow over the decades. “Since the time the bamboo market was set up 150 years ago, 20 Burud families have been involved in this craft. Earlier, bamboo baskets to carry vegetables and other goods were in demand. However, in the past 20 to 30 years, the demand has grown for decorative items. The use of bamboo decorations is not restricted to homes. Many restaurants also approach us for various products like lampshades, bamboo carpets, rolling curtains etc.” he said and added that in line with the growing demand, sales at Burud Aali has nearly doubled in two to three decades.
 
 Highlighting another interesting feature about Burud Aali, More said it is usually the women who are engaged in bamboo art. 
 
 “Most of the women from all the 20 Burud families here are engaged in this business,” he said.
 
 Nanda Pawar, a middle-aged bamboo artisan, said she learnt the art by watching her elders. “This is my family’s traditional business, and I have been watching my family members make products from bamboo since my birth. Over a period of time, I also started making them. However, now there are only four to five women actively involved in making the products. The younger women only deal with the sales side of the business. Many products are also imported from other states and sold here. With such an attitude, the tradition may die in the future,” she said.
 
 
