KANNUR: Every time the ulcer on her amputated right leg hurts or bleeds, that fateful day flashes before her eyes. Asna K, victim of the political bloodshed in  , however, says she was only thankful to the world for helping her start a new chapter in her life.

 
 It was on 27 September 2000 that the life of Asna, who was just six year old then, was ripped apart in a crude bomb attack during a clash between   and   workers near her house at   near Cheruvancheri in the district. It was the day of local body election. Asna, who went on to become the face of anti-violence campaign in Kannur, lost her leg and was subsequently hospitalised for another three months. Her mother Santhi and younger brother   suffered minor injuries in the attack.
 
 Asna is now pursuing house surgency at Kozhikode medical college hospital. “I am still not able to overcome the trauma. So far I have changed 15 prosthetic legs and it is so painful,” said the young doctor.
 
 
 Despite the odds, she takes pride in the fact that she was able to acheive the dream of becoming a doctor. She owes it to her father Nanu. “He even closed down the small tea shop he managed to be with me in the hospital,” she said.
 
 
 The attack had its root in the differences that local RSS workers had with Nanu, who is a Congress sympathizer. The UDF government later even built a lift at the medical college to facilitate her movement.
 
 
 The medic feels that it is time to give it back to the society, by serving the people of her hometown, especially the rural folks, after completing her internship. “Of course, I want to do postgraduation, preferably in surgery, but ultimately want to serve the rural folks. If I get a chance to serve in some public health centre before that, I will go for it,” she said.
 
 
 There were 14 accused in the case. While the court awarded jail term of five to ten years to 13 of them, the remaining one, P K  , was killed when the crude bomb he was allegedly making exploded, before the verdict came out.
 
 
 Kannur continues to be in news for all the wrong reasons. “Whenever violence erupts in my home district, I ask myself why this bloodshed. Why can’t we make peace. I just have one humble request, let’s not repeat the stories of violence,” she said.
 
