HYDERABAD: The Telangana Minorities Residential Educational Institutions Society’s ( ) decision to scrap some of the existing Intermediate courses in junior colleges has not gone down well with teachers. Terming the move as absurd, teachers said that the society should release a new notification making necessary changes.

 
 As per the TMREIS notification, the Civics- Economics-Commerce ( ) course will no longer be offered at the junior college in   while the Mathematics-Physics-Chemistry ( ) and the Biology-Physics-Chemistry (BiPC) courses will be scrapped from the list at the junior college in Nizamabad.
 
 “It is good that the society is opening new colleges, but they can’t discontinue courses being offered by some of the existing institutes. If they offer CEC course only in Nizamabad, what will children in the other districts do? Do they really think it is possible for a student from Hyderabad to travel to Nizamabad every day, for classes? Similarly, at the Nizamabad college, if they stop offering MPC and BiPC courses, do they expect everyone to study only CEC,” questioned Mohammad Masooduddin Ahmed, president, Telangana State Minority Employees Welfare Association. He alleged that TMREIS is slowly trying to replace courses offered in Urdu medium with English, and added that this move would deprive students of an opportunity to study in their mother tongue.
 
 Dismissing the charges, TMREIS officials maintained that the decision to do away with some courses was taken after seeking feedback from students. They added that all courses will be offered across junior colleges, under the society, within the next twothree years.
 
 “We sought feedback from our school students before we decided to offer MPC, BiPC courses in 11 colleges and CEC and   courses only at the college in Nizamabad. Right now, it will not be possible to run all the courses in all colleges with the staff that we have. Eventually, we will start junior colleges in all our schools and each of them will offer all the courses,” said  , secretary of the society.
 
 The TMREIS had only two junior colleges under it, until the last academic year. The society has decided to add another 10 colleges this year — each of which will have a strength of 80 students.
 
