CHENNAI: Kings XI Punjab on Monday announced India off-spinner   as their captain for the upcoming   season. This will be Ashwin's maiden stint as a leader of an IPL franchisee.

 
 
 
 
 Even though  , a former Punjab skipper in the IPL, was also in the reckoning, Kings XI mentor   said that he always wanted a bowler to lead the side.
 
 "I always thought that a bowler should be made the captain because I was a big fan of Wasim Akram, Waqar Younis, and Kapil Dev. I thought a bowler would be the best candidate for our team's captaincy.   was also there in our minds. But a lot of votes from our support staff and owners went to Ashwin,"   said.
 
 For Ashwin, who was an integral part of the  , captaincy promotion was part of a "natural progression" after his seven-year international career.
 
 "I see it as a natural progression for having played cricket for so long at the top level. I have always felt I had it in me (to be captain). WV Raman identified me as a captain when I was 21 years old. I ended up winning a few titles for TN. But for a bowler to become a captain, which is not something natural in the country, this is something fascinating," said the 31-year-old.
 
 
 
 
 Known for his innovation and out-of-the-box thinking,   believes in his "tactical and strategical sharpness" to keep things going on the field.
 
 "Being a bowler captain, I will be able to understand the bowlers and field changes. There are so many numbers and stats that can be crunched in T20s. I believe in certain amount of preparation before a match. I also believe my tactical and strategic sharpness which might stand me in good stead. I think I have got enough experience inside the dressing room to be able to fall back on to with those decisions," he added.
 
 Ashwin's primary focus as a leader is to build a "sound team culture" and create an ideal atmosphere for his boys to deliver on the field.
 
 "I think one has to be realistic. For me, the goal will be to have a good season, get a lot of players performing with most of the guys ticking the right boxes. I will try to build a sound team culture. I will try to create a best performing environment for the team so that they are in the best space inside the room to go out there and express themselves," said Ashwin.
 
 Over the years, Ashwin has featured under iconic skipper MS Dhoni in   and has seen from close quarters some of the other tactically sound skippers such as Gautam Gambhir, Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma and Sehwag himself in IPL.
 
 Ashwin wants to pick the positive attributes from all those skippers and put it to use on the field. "I have seen four-five captains in my career so far. All of these captains have a lot of positives in them. It's all about trying to take different positives and attributes from each one of them and try to put it to use in my game. Sehwag is instinctive, has a sound mind and mentally a strong person. I look to pick those things and become better," said Ashwin.
 
