MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Wednesday directed BJR, which runs the fine-dining restaurant Gallops at   (RWITC) premises at Mahalaxmi racecourse, to pay to the club 50% of damages imposed on it by an arbitrator as a condition for staying execution of the monetary award.

 
 
  
 
 An arbitrator had last September ordered BJR to pay Rs 34 crore as damages to RWITC with interest since 2009, when a dispute had arisen between the two. The club’s counsel said that with interest, the money decree would amount to about Rs50 crore. The award was passed after the arbitrator held in favour of the club. The arbitrator had in January this year further directed BJR to remove its restaurant and all related infrastructure from racecourse premises of the club. BJR had moved HC to restrain RWITC from evicting it by executing the arbitral award. It also challenged the money decree passed by the arbitrator against it and sought a stay on it through submissions of its counsel   on Wednesday before Justice R D Dhanuka of the HC.
 
 The club’s counsel Soli Cooper and   insisted on a condition being imposed on a stay being granted on execution of the award. Chinoy objected to any condition being imposed. The HC stayed the arbitral award which had directed BJR to “never enter or remain” on the premises at the raccourse. The HC said the issues raised by BJR “require consideration,” admitted the two petitions it had filed and expedited the hearing. It said the challenge to the award is subject to BJR also paying 50% of the conducting agreement cost of about Rs6 crore per year to the club. The amounts have to be paid by BJR within 12 weeks. The arbitrator, former chief justice of Allahabad high court,   had passed three awards in arbitration proceeding in a longstanding feud between the club and Gallops.
 
 The club had terminated its 2008 “catering contract” with Gallops, prompting a legal battle in the HC. An arbitrator was first appointed in 2011. The arbitrator had awarded the club almost Rs35 crore to be paid by Gallops. In September 2017, the arbitrator held the termination valid.
 
