NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate has once again written to ministry of external affairs seeking revocation of passports of Nitin and Chetan Sandesara, the two prime accused who fled the country with their family last year after a case was registered against them by the   and later the ED, for defrauding a consortium of government banks led by Andhra Bank, of an amount that could touch Rs 10,000 crore . 

 
 A source said the request to revoke their passports was conveyed to the regional passport office (RPO) in Mumbai as early as October last year. However, the passports of the accused have not yet been revoked by the RPO leading to the agencies sending repeated reminders to the foreign ministry to initiate prompt action in view of several other such cases coming to light, including that of the diamond merchant  . 
 
 Sandesras are among a list of 31 high profile fugitives who have left the country after agencies initiated cases of economic offences against them. The Vadodarabased businessmen is also being probed for his association with a leading politician whose sonin-law is one of the accused in the case.
 
 A Delhi-based businessman, Gagan Dhawan, was arrested by the ED in the same case and his properties attached. He was questioned by the agency for his association with the leading politician and about several investments in high-profile properties. 
 
 The fugitive list, which was recently disclosed in Parliament by minister of state for external affairs M J Akbar, includes Vijay Mallya of Kingfisher Airlines, wanted in a Rs 9,000 crore bank fraud case; Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi wanted in bank fraud of Rs 13,500 crore; Jatin Mehta of Winsome Diamonds wanted in Rs 6,100 crore bank fraud case; former IPL chairman Lalit Modi and arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari wanted for money laundering, among others. The agencies, according to an investigative officer, are not aware of the whereabouts of the Sandesaras. 
 
 Responding to one of the reminders sent by the ED, the RPO, Mumbai had recently informed that a show cause notice was issued to the Sandesaras in November last year but the same had returned undelivered since no one was living at the address. The RPO, the source said, had again issued a second show cause notice to the Sandesaras, but the foreign ministry is yet to take a decision on revocation of their passports. “If an accused is not in the country and had fled with his family members, there is no reason why their passports should not be revoked,” the officer said. 
 '
 A case was first filed by the CBI against Sandesaras and their group of companies, including Sterling Biotech Ltd, on August 30 last year for defrauding banks to the tune of Rs 5,383 crore. The ED soon booked the accused under the PMLA. The probe has revealed that the Sandesara group of companies cheated more banks and the total outstanding against banks and investors may go beyond Rs 10,000 crore, a senior agency official told TOI. 
 
 Sandesaras came under the radar of agencies first in 2011 when I-T officials searched his   in Vadodara and seized a diary that had details of payoffs to top politicians and relatives, besides top bureaucrats.
 
