NEW DELHI: State-run fuel retailers will not additionally raise petrol and diesel prices to recover the cost of upgrading to   fuels in Delhi, the country’s first city where 100% petrol pumps will be officially selling the cleaner fuel from Sunday.

 Instead, the retailers will, for now, “optimise” processes to make up the higher production cost of   fuel since Delhi is the only city to get this fuel nearly two years ahead of the April 2020 deadline for covering the entire country.
 
 This means fuel prices will be revised daily only to the extent required by the movement of crude and product prices in global markets. But there would be no additional increase on account of the upgrade, estimated at 50 paise per litre.
 
 “We will not pass on the cost (of upgrading) to consumers for the time being. There are no plans to recover (the cost) from customers immediately. The mechanism will be decided later (till supplies expand to more cities),”   director (refineries) B V Rama Gopal said on Saturday.
 
 Refineries had invested over Rs 55,000 crore for producing BS-III/IV fuels. They are pumping in another Rs 28,000 crore more for upgrading to BS-VI standards by 2020.
 
 Delhi will benefit from cleaner fuels, but only partially since the fleet of vehicles crowding its roads are of BS-VI vintage. Rama Gopal said in spite of BS-IV vehicles, cleaner fuel will reduce particulate matter in vehicular emission, which has been identified as a major air pollutant, by 10-20% and lower other gaseous emissions.
 
 Consumers too would benefit as the life of costly catalytic converter fitted in their cars will get extended. “Compared to BS-IV, the converter will get very low levels of sulphur and CO etc for processing with BS-VI fuels. This will make them last longer,” he said.
 
 Noida and Ghaziabad in UP,   and Faridabad in Haryana are scheduled to get BS-VI fuels from April 2019 but will probably start getting supplies from Janaury itself. The Supreme Court had five days back asked the Centre to consider introducing BS-VI fuels in 13 cities, including Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune next year, a year ahead of the 2020 deadline.
 
  said BS-VI fuels may still be produced for these 13 cities but the logistics of transporting the products could prove to be a barrier. “The (target) cities are spread all over. We will next week examine possible solutions,” he said. BS-VI fuels can’t be pushed through pipelines or stored in tanks used for BS-IV products, which have to be flushed completely to avoid quality degeneration.
 
 Two issues are dogging the public sector oil marketers on advancing goalposts for BS-VI. One is the ability of their refineries to make this fuel since plant upgrade can’t be rushed. Even if BS-VI products may be available at refineries, their transportation to these cities may be challenge. This is because the rest of the country will still be on BS-IV and it will not be possible to use the existing infrastructure for BS-VI. The only option left would be trucking, which will raise costs further.
 
 
 
