NEW DELHI: A crime   that helped candidates cheat and clear the online examination for the   (SSC) was busted by a joint team of   and Delhi Police from a house in Timarpur on Tuesday night. Four people, including one of the suspected kingpins, were caught during the raid. Police have seized two laptops, a few mobile phones and Rs 51 lakh from them. Three other suspected members of the gang have also been detained.

 Police are on the lookout for the alleged mastermind, Harpal Singh, a clerk with the Delhi sales tax department and Deepak Kumar, an employee of a private technology solutions provider.
 
 The arrested men — Gaurav Nayyar, Sonu Singh, Ajay Kumar and Paramjeet Singh — have admitted to leaking and helping some of the students enrolled with them solve the SSC question papers. They would remotely access the server where the question paper was uploaded through a software, Team Viewer. Police sources said that they also had passwords to access the server, which are normally available with examiners and technicians working with SSC. 
  
 
 A probe was initiated after SSC aspirants staged a protest alleging widespread cheating in the examinations for the recruitment of tax inspectors, clerical staff and accountants held in February, DCP (north) Jatin Narwhal said. Cops had also received complaints from several candidates.
 
 “The UP Police STF got information about the gang after which a team led by inspector Sunil Kumar was formed to conduct raids. Some of the locations from which the students had appeared for exams were checked after which the team zeroed in on one at Gandhi Vihar in Timarpur and caught the four men red-handed while assisting candidates through the   access application,” said Narwhal.
 
 A case under IPC sections 419 (impersonation) and 420 (cheating) along with relevant sections of IT Act has been lodged at Timarpur police station.
 
 The men admitted to being a part of a syndicate operating almost across the country to conduct SSC exams. They are being interrogated to get information about the mastermind. So far, they have admitted to having solved papers for almost 200 students.
 
 It was found that the gang members had connived with the private operator contracted by SSC to conduct the examination to leak the question paper. Sources said that the accused have named a few SSC employees who would also be questioned by the joint team.
 
 Nayyar is Harpal’s brother-in-law and owns several computer centres in partnership with his friend Anu. SSC outsourced the exam centres to different private computer labs to conduct the online examinations, which Nayyar and Harpal had managed to secure using their sources within the commission.
 
 The students enrolling with their syndicate would be offered clearances till the main examinations, which guaranteed a government job.
 
 A few registers with the names of the students who had enrolled with the syndicate have been seized. These students will also be questioned. The joint team has been raiding various locations in north Delhi and Ghaziabad from which the syndicate operated.
 
 
