AGARTALA: It’s an upbeat and aggressive   that, as part of its ‘Look East’ policy, is challenging the 25-year Left rule in Tripura. Seeking to cash in on heavy anti-incumbency against chief minister  , the BJP on Sunday today took out a roadshow with Union home minister   in the lead, even as crowds cheered along both ends of the road.

 If the sea of people who turned up at the public meetings on Sunday and lined the roadshow route, repeating chants of ‘Chalo Paltai’ (‘Let’s Overthrow’) and showering the BJP ‘rath’ with marigold petals, are any indication, the BJP has managed to position itself and an alternative to Left government alright. It remains to be seen how many of these crowds translate into votes, but both Singh and senior BJP leader   sound confident of the party’s electoral prospects. 
 
 The BJP over the past three-and-a-half years has expedited road, rail and air connectivity projects in Tripura. A rail connection between Delhi and   via Tripur Sundari Express, was started in 2016 to ease long distance travel to and from Tripura. Also, an additional rail link via Bangladesh is coming up to cut travel time to Tripura. Three additional highways are being constructed at Rs 4,000 crore to link Tripura with the rest of the country. Add to this a project to upgrade the Tripura airport to an international one.
  
 “The BJP government at the Centre has made possible this added connectivity to Tripura. In contrast, 25 years of Left rule have failed to bring sufficient fruits of development to the state. We have only seen joblessness among the youth, crimes among women, political violence, poverty, poor healthcare and potholed roads,” said Singh.
 
 “You have been voting Left to power for past 25 years. I appeal to you to give one chance to the BJP. The BJP will offer a secure environment to all, including he common man and even the Left workers. Tripura government is still paying its employees as per Fourth Pay Commission’s award. The BJP will implement the scales prescribed by 7th Pay Commission. We will also ensure that houses where no electricity is there, get a connection in the next 6-9 months,” the home minister told a public rally in Agartala on Sunday.
  
 Also highlighting the poor healthcare services in Tripura, Singh said the   government had already offered health cover of Rs 5 lakh per family in this year’s budget.
 
 The home minister also raised the murders of journalists Santanu Bhowmik and Sudip Datta Bhowmik in Tripura to allege lawlessness under Manik Sarkar rule. “The BJP if voted to power will order a CBI probe into these murders,” he said.
 
