MUMBAI: A third accused was arrested on Saturday in connection with the case where a 23-year-old woman commuter was struck with a stick by a robber perched on a signal pole, causing her to fall off a running local. The incident had occurred between   and Masjid stations on Wednesday. Earlier, the   (GRP) had arrested a 17-year-old boy and a housewife in the case. The commuter, Dravita Singh, lost her left little finger, parts of her middle and ring fingers and a part of the right foot, including the big toe, after another train ran over her arm and foot.

 "On quizzing the juvenile and the motorman of the other train who had rescued Dravita, we learnt that the juvenile had had an accomplice. He was tracked down from Sandhurst Road and has been identified as Raja Pal alias Ajay, 26. He lived on the street near the Sandhurst Road yard and did odd jobs for a living. We are checking if he has a past crime record," said senior inspector Sanjay Shinde, CST GRP. 
 
 On the day of the incident, Pal stood at a distance while the juvenile struck Dravita. After she fell, the juvenile pocketed her phone and ran away with Pal. The duo later sold the phone, costing Rs 18000, to a housewife from Masjid named Rukhsar Barguya for a mere Rs 4000. Both, Barguya and Pal, were remanded into judicial custody by a  . The juvenile has no previous crime record and has been sent to the   observation home. He sometimes stayed with his mother and sometimes with his aunt. 
 
 Dravita underwent another procedure at the   on Saturday. "In crush injuries, there is a high chance of developing gangrene. Our doctors had kept her right foot under observation. On Saturday, we performed debridement (removal of dead tissues) followed by a special dressing called a 'vaccuum dressing.' We have started her on a regular diet and she is tolerating it well. No fever has developed which means that her infection is under control. Her blood count and other parameters are all under control. We have moved her from the ICCU into the ward and upgraded her status so that she gets better care," said Dr Rajeev Boudhankar, CEO?, Bhatia Hospital.
 
 The hospital has decided to waive off charges for Dravita's treatment as a social commitment. "Dravita has shown great courage throughout the treatment and in acceptance of a challenging life she’s going to lead. The fee waiver may not ease her pain but as a hospital, this is the least we could do for the family," Boudhankar added. Dravita has undergone multiple procedures to remove part of her middle finger, ring fingers, whole of her little finger and part of her right foot. 
 
