NEW DELHI: Police, awaiting the final autopsy report in the death of a 33-year-old man in   in   on Wednesday, said on Friday that the ligature marks on his throat suggested hanging to be the cause of death. The cops also said the marks appeared to be ante-mortem, but senior officers added that they were examining all clues and plan to question the victim’s wife too having received information about domestic disharmony.

 An inquest under Section 174 of CrPC has been initiated into the death of  . Police sources said footage from the   cameras in Malhotra’s house is being examined. Some neighbours, including a doctor who had administered CPR to Malhotra, are being quizzed, and the call record of the deceased’s mobile phone is being scanned to see if there are clues to help the police determine what happened just prior to his death.
 
 Family members have alleged that Malhotra was murdered after he came to learn of “some secrets”. Without revealing the nature of these “secrets”, the cops confirmed probing such allegations but said they were yet to unearth any evidence indicating homicide. “We will delve into all possible reasons for the death and take necessary steps to ensure that the concerns of the family are addressed,” said Milind Dumbere, DCP (south-west).
 
 The autopsy was conducted on Friday by a panel of three doctors, with the entire proceedings being video recorded by the cops. The preliminary findings showed Malhotra might have died between noon and 3pm on Wednesday. The man’s neighbours alleged there was an argument between Malhotra and his wife just around this time. They told a family member that they did not intervene in what they thought was a personal matter. On Friday, the cops questioned at least three neighbours about the incident.
 
 Malhotra’s brother, Chirag, had told TOI on Friday that the doctors at the hospital where his brother had first been taken to had reported rigor mortis had set in, indicating a death some hours before the time of the body’s discovery.
 
 
