NEW DELHI: Close to four years after 39 Indian workers went missing in  , the government announced on Tuesday that the men were dead after their bodies were recovered from a hillock near Badush, not far from Mosul, and DNA tests had confirmed their identities.

 
 Foreign minister   made the announcement in a statement in the  , saying DNA tests carried out by Iraq’s Martyrs Foundation had confirmed the identities of those killed. The men were feared to have been kidnapped by the   soon after Mosul fell to the terror group in June 2014.
 
 The announcement was anticipated as the government, not having heard from any of the victims for months despite the liberation of Mosul in July 2017, had, in October last year, started collecting DNA samples of family members of the missing workers.
 
  
  
 
 A lone survivor, Harjit Masih, who claimed to have played dead, had said that he saw other members of the group being killed. However, the government pursued leads from sources who it said had informed that the Indians were still alive.
 
 Swaraj spoke of the efforts of junior minister   in travelling to Iraq to look for the men.
 
 The opposition accused the government of delaying the announcement, saying this was disappointing behaviour.
 
  
  
 
 Swaraj has previously said that she could not declare the men dead without evidence of their fate.
 
 In a move to pre-empt any criticism by the opposition that it had given false hopes to family members of the workers, Swaraj said on Tuesday that Masih’s story was incorrect. She maintained that the government was right in not declaring them dead in the absence of “pakka saboot (firm evidence)”.
 
 “I now have concrete evidence to say that Masih’s story was wrong. Also, with a heavy heart, I want to say that those people have been killed,’’ Swaraj said.
 
 As late as July 2017, Swaraj had said in Parliament that there was no concrete evidence to confirm the deaths as she had said three years earlier too on November 24, 2014. Swaraj has said in the past that the issue had been taken up with heads of state and governments and, as she told the families in 2016, in one case Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas had said the workers were still alive.
 
 Her July 2017 statement followed an outcry in India over the disclosure that the jail at Badush no longer existed. Only a week earlier, Swaraj had said her junior minister, V K Singh, had got information from Iraq, after Mosul was liberated on July 9, that the Indian workers had been kept in Badush prison.
 
 Speaking informally, senior ministers said the government had made strenuous efforts to check every lead and information on the men and this was not an effort to hide the truth of their deaths.
 
 Swaraj said the government still had no information about exactly when the workers had been killed. In fact, she said even the manner in which they were killed would be known from Iraqi authorities later. While making the announcement, Swaraj thanked Singh and the Iraqi authorities for their efforts in exhuming the bodies from the mound after a “deep penetration radar” revealed that 39 bodies were buried under it. Local villagers had first informed that many bodies were buried under the mound.
 
 The discovery of long hair (many of the workers were Sikhs), “kada (bangle)” and Indian shoes confirmed the suspicion that they were the missing Indians. While 27 of the missing were from Punjab, the remaining were from Himachal Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal.
 
 “V K Singh will go to Iraq to bring back the mortal remains of the Indians killed in Iraq. The plane carrying the mortal remains will first go to Amritsar, then to Patna and then to Kolkata,” Swaraj said.
 
