GUWAHATI: As three northeastern states go to polls next month, BJP may become the main challenger to CPM in Tripura, and Congress in Meghalaya. The saffron party is a ruling partner in Nagaland, the first northeastern state to get NDA in office. 

 Tripura goes to polls on February 18, while Nagaland and Meghalaya will vote on February 27. All three states have 60-member assemblies.
 
 What makes the elections interesting is BJP's push to project itself as a major contender for power, especially in Tripura and Meghalaya, which is one of the last Congress bastions in the country. BJP shares power with Naga People's Front (NPF) in Nagaland . 
 
 Recently, Tripura CM  , who has been in power since 1998, has acknowledged BJP as the Left Front's main challenger in the state. BJP has been trying to make inroads into the tribal belt, a CPM bastion, and has formed an alliance with tribal-dominated Indigenous People's Front of Tripura to take on the Left.
 
 Congress seems to have become a spent force in Tripura, with the party facing an exodus of its leaders to BJP. At least six MLAs, who switched side from Congress to Trinamool Congress, have recently joined BJP. 
 
 CPM's Tripura secretary Bijan Dhar hopes that the Left would return to power in the state for a record sixth time. After Kerala, Tripura is the only state where the Left Front is in power.
 
 In Christian-majority Meghalaya too, BJP may emerge as a major player. Aware of this, National People's Party (NPP) - a BJP ally at the Centre and in Manipur - seems to be keeping a distance from the saffron party. So far, NPP - founded by former Lok Sabha speaker PA Sangma - is non-committal on any poll tie-up with BJP, which is likely to depend on Union minister KJ Alphons, a Christian, in its battle for power in the state. 
 
 Congress may cash in on BJP's alleged "Hindu consolidation" campaign in other parts of country. Meghalaya CM Mukul Sangma says Congress will expose "underhand dealings" between BJP and NPP, which may go it alone in the election. Both Congress and NPP may give a tough fight to each other in Meghalaya's Garo Hills, to which both the CM and NPP president Conrad Sangma (PA Sangma's son) belong.
 
 In Nagaland, social and political groups have been seeking postponement of the polls till the Centre and Naga stakeholders resolve the vexed issue of insurgency. However, political parties want election to be held to avoid a re-run of 1998, when Congress won without any contest following a similar boycott. NPF, led by CM TR Zeliang, and the newly formed National Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) are likely to be the two main contenders in the election. Lok Sabha MP and former CM Neiphiu Rio joined NDPP this week. This has put BJP in a dilemma over choosing between NPF, its ally for years, and Rio, who is seen to be close to it . 
 
 
