NEW DELHI: A   and a security   who had been among the five men hospitalised after being exposed to toxic gases in a sewage treatment plant at Vivanta by Taj-Ambassador Hotel in Khan Market two days ago died on Tuesday. The others, including the deputy chief engineer of the hotel, are under medical observation and not fit yet to speak to police.

 Madhur Verma, DCP (New Delhi), confirmed the deaths of plumber Ravindra Pal Singh (40) and security guard Vikram (26). Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code related to culpable homicide not amounting to murder has now been added to the case registered against the hotel and Eco Pollutech Engineers, the company holding the contract for maintaining the sewage treatment plant.
 
 Police said that Singh died early on Tuesday. Medical staff said the diabetes patient had failed to respond to the treatment after having lost consciousness on Sunday. A few hours after Singh’s death, Vikram suffered a fatal heart attack. Police handed over Singh’s body to the family in the evening, while the autopsy on the security guard’s body will be done on Wednesday morning.
 
 Preliminary police investigations established that after the hotel staff reported malfunctioning in the sewage plant’s pumping station, two plumbers from the Eco Pollutech, Singh and Kamdev Patra (58), reached the hotel. They were joined by the in-house plumber Nityanand (51), who entered the sewage treatment section in the basement with Singh. They are believed to have been in the small room looking for possible leaks when Singh undid the coupling of the sewage water line to inspect it for damage.
 
 The plant was immediately filled with poisonous gases emanating from the sewage tank. Before losing consciousness, the two dizzy plumbers screamed for help. Patra, who was standing outside the room, responded to their SOS but himself collapsed when trying to drag the men out of the pumping station.
 
 Gaurav Sukheja, the deputy chief engineer of the hotel, was overseeing the operation. Before Sukheja (34) and Vikram entered the room to help the men, they raised an alarm. However, they too blacked out soon after. Sewage water then began flowing out of the septic tank and flooded the room.
 
 After the hotel contacted the fire department and ambulance services, three firemen in protective suits entered the sewage treatment room and brought out the five unconscious men. Singh, Vikram and Nityanand were taken to Moolchand Hospital in Lajpat Nagar, while Patra and Sukheja were rushed to Lok Nayak Hospital and later shifted to BLK Hospital in Rajinder Nagar.
 
 Police said they are waiting for Sukheja, Nityanand and Patra to become fit to make their statements before continuing with the probe but have asked Eco Pollutech to join the investigation. The staff members present at the time of the incident are also being questioned. The hotel said in a statement that it was cooperating with the cops in the investigation and providing support to the families of the five men.
 
 
