CHANDIGARH: Ahead of formal release of the latest report of   (GATS) the Punjab government has claimed that the state may have witnessed an increase in tobacco consumption as fallout of the crackdown against drugs in the state.

  “In last few months the supply line for drugs has been cut off so drug addicts may have shifted to other easily available legal addicting substances like tobacco, especially the smokeless (chewable) tobacco,” said deputy director of department of health and family welfare Dr  .
 
 Voice of Tobacco Victim (VOTV) Patron-Punjab Dr   claimed that as per the GATS’s latest report, tobacco consumption in Punjab had gone up from 11.7% to 13.4% between 2009-10 and 2016-17. This, he said, was in contrast to 14.6% reduction in prevalence of tobacco use in males in the National Family Health Survey ( ), cited by the state government to pat its back. The health department, however, claims it was yet to receive details of the GATS report from the Government of India.
 
 On the other hand, Dr Gupta maintained, “The Global Adult Tobacco Survey-2 has not been released officially by the Centre. We will know about the detailed report which will have many parameters on which assessment is made. It will be appropriate to comment only after release of the report. The minor increase in prevalence as predicted may be due to shift to other easily legally available addicting products like tobacco or nicotine.”
 
 Dr Duggal added, “GATS is considered a benchmark survey for knowing the prevalence of tobacco use in the country and it’s a cause for concern for Punjab. The theory of linking increase in tobacco use to campaign against drugs doesn’t sound convincing. Apart from cancer, tobacco use can result in scores of other systemic diseases while tobacco related pre-cancerous conditions like oral submucous fibrosis make the life of the affected a hell. Punjabis at the risk of developing tobacco related diseases. Cancer has slowly become a part of the folklore of Punjab.”
 
 Incidentally, Punjab had received WHO World No Tobacco Award in 2015.
 
 Dr Gupta, who was the state program officer of National Tobacco Control Cell, Punjab, till recently, added that he was presently on deputation to home department as chief chemical examiner. “Health authorities are sensitized to the issue that it is important to monitor the tobacco epidemic regularly and ensure strict implementation of tobacco control,” he said.
 
