GURUGRAM:   has suspended three of the six fourth-year students who have been accused of assaulting a first-year interior design student and molesting and heckling his mother on the campus on Monday. 

 The university has also promised to take action against the remaining three students once they are identified.
 
 “After getting information, we had rushed to the spot where this incident happened. We are dealing with the issue with an iron hand and the three identified students have been suspended with immediate effect. Now,   are investigating the matter and if found guilty, they (the students) will be rusticated,” said Dr Nitesh Bansal, registrar of GD Goenka University.
 
 Police said they had conducted searches at the houses of the three students named in the complaint but they were found absconding. “We are carrying out searches to nab the students who have been booked on charges of assault and sexual harassment. They will be arrested soon,” said sub-inspector Meena Devi, the investigating officer.
 
 The first-year student’s mother, who was admitted to the   after she complained of chest pain following the attack on Monday, was discharged on Wednesday.
 
 Around 3.30pm on Monday, the first-year student of B.Design was working on a big model of a haunted house built on a ground inside the university premises as part of a project with his classmates when some fourth-year engineering students came there and enquired about the huge structure. His mother, who had come to help him, was also there.
 
 Following a heated argument, the senior students allegedly assaulted the first-year student and one of his friends. And when his mother tried to intervene, they molested and manhandled her. The woman was later admitted to hospital.
 
 Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered against six students, three of whom have been identified, under sections 323 (causing hurt), 354A (sexual harassment), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of the IPC at   police station.
 
 
