BENGALURU: When Prime Minister   ridiculed the state   government by calling it “10 percent commission government” during his rally in Bengaluru in early February, the jibe set social media ringing. Thanks to the ‘back room’ boys of BJP, it quickly became a buzzword across the state and the country. ‘Back room boys’ ensured the jibe trended on social media. This was also true of   when he took a dig at   by calling his government “rear view Sarkar”.

 From managing the party’s social network and coining catchy phrases to disseminating their party’s agenda, these ‘back room boys’ are leaving no stone unturned in attempting to catch voters’ interest as assembly elections draw near.
 
 “Two third of voters (around three crore) in Karnataka have access to the internet and around two crore voters use smartphones, so what better way than social media to reach out to people,’’ asks Balaji Srinivas, convener of Karnataka BJP social media cell, which operates from the party's office in Malleswaram.
 
 So, who are these ‘back room boys’? Every party has a dedicated group of internetsavvy men and women below 35 years of age for the purpose. While the BJP has a 40-member core team to manage its online campaign, the Congress has hired professionals to provide content. The JD(S) has a team of 100 H D Kumaraswamy’s fans, who have volunteered to handle party’s social media campaign.
 
 Most of the core team members have IT or management backgrounds, while the others — other degrees and diploma holders — are wellversed in social media tools. The core team consists of graphic designers, creative writers and artistes.
 
 Sitting in cozy, air-conditioned rooms, often referred to as 'war rooms', these teams work round the clock to grab as much traction as possible for their respective parties.
 
 “We work for around 14-16 hours a day,” said Balaji. “Soon we may have to work even longer hours since polls are approaching.”
 
 Keeping track of every single political development and remarks by their opponents and reacting to them on real time basis constitutes their primary job. “We react to issues that are generic on our own,” said Y G Srivatsa, head of the Congress social media cell. “When the matter is politically important or controversial, then we consult party leaders.”
 
 According to Balaji, the cell falls back on subject experts when the issue is complex or pertains to a particular domain. “If the issue is about irrigation, we consult former water resources minister Basvaraj Bommai,” he said. “For financial matters, we have an expert from non-political background.   has a lot of information at his fingertips and we contact him every now and again.”
 
 While former minister Aravind Limbavali is the pointsman for the BJP, Gundu Rao, KPCC working president, is his opposite number in the Congress. Actor-politician Ramya frequently provides inputs. For the JD(S), state chief   himself oversees the campaign.
 
 In disseminating information, each party has a different modus operandi. While the BJP has created 20,000 WhatsApp groups, besides Facebook pages, to reach out to people, the Congress sends WhatsApp messages to individuals through their workers. “We have avoided creating WhatsApp groups as it will lead to unnecessary debates and arguments,” said Srivatsa.
 
 The JD(S) has been sending two messages a day, mainly highlighting the necessity of a regional party and why Kumaraswamy needs to be given a chance. “Unlike BJP and Congress, we are focusing more on a positive campaign,” said Chandan Dore, a core member of the JD(S) social media team.
 
 
 
