When B Sreeramulu filed his nomination papers from Badami, the script for a high-voltage battle in the state’s political history was written. Heli-hopping to Badami and visiting Molakalmuru by road from Ballari, the 46-year-old   MP is being groomed by the BJP for possibly higher responsibilities in future. Speaking to 
 , Sriramulu recalled his association with Union minister Sushma Swaraj, the 
  (mother) of the Ballari

 Reddys, saying her strength looms large in the district. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 
 It is not just these two constituencies. I have been given the responsibility of 80 constituencies by the party. I am shuttling between Chitradurga, Chamarajanagar, Ballari, Bagalkot and Raichur. Every day I wind up at 2am. I have built a good rapport in Molakalmuru, so will spend little time there. I fly to Badami frequently.
 
 
 
 
 He is a big leader and belongs to OBC. I am from the Valmiki community, a tribal. But the CM is going to pay for neglecting Badami. If he had been concerned, he could have spent Rs 10,000 crore on Krishna basin projects, a promise which   made on the banks of the river.
 
 
 
 
 Yeddyurappa is right. My only goal now is to bring BJP to power and see to it that Yeddyurappa becomes chief minister.
 
 
 
 
 Both BS Anand Singh, Congress candidate from (Vijayanagar-Hosapete) and B Nagendra (Kudligi) went to jail on the mining issue. They have no moral right to preach Basavanna’s tattvas to us. My party has given tickets to G Somashekara Reddy and G Karunakara Reddy who were not involved in mining and have no cases. The Congress has taken both.
 
 
 
 
 I can only say Yeddyurappa has been magnanimous.
 
 
 
 
 Let me clarify that Reddy and I are just friends. I am not a businessman nor do I own a mine. I have a clean image. In the last 30 years, there has been no case against me. Reddy’s cases are still in court. He belongs to the Reddy community and I represent the Valmikis. Reddy came to public life as an MLC and has not won a direct election.
 
 
 
 
 I am from a zamindar’s family. Though my father was a porter in the railways, my mother was wealthy. She inherited land from her mother. I have no money.
 
 
 
 
 People of Ballari are in a pitiable state. They have no money and no food. Mining activity has halted.
 
