CHANDIGARH: In its ongoing drive against  , the Punjab anti-drug special task force ( ) will now co-opt people from each locality, government employees as well as members of panchayats and municipalities as volunteer Drug Abuse Prevention Officers (Dapos).

 These volunteers will raise anti-drugs awareness in their own localities, actively prevent drug use and facilitate people who are addicts to go to a government de-addiction centre. The STF plans to roll out the cost-free and honorary door-step DAPO programme from March in coordination with district administration.
 
  
  
 
 Punjab anti-drug STF head, ADGP Harpreet Singh   told TOI, “We want to engage the community people who so far have been bystanders or peripheral players. They are the main stakeholders and the ones who feel the impact in crime and social instability due to drug menace.”
 
 The senior IPS officer added that the STF aims to cover each mohalla (locality) in the state with a volunteer and has plans to engage maximum number of women as these volunteer drug abuse prevention officers.
 
 With the goal to make each locality take pride in claiming to be a nasha mukt mohalla (drug-free locality) at the earliest, the Punjab government will soon start a massive training programme by enlisting volunteers in lakhs. One of the reasons to launch this mass drive is that Punjab is predominantly a rural state and most of its cities are old. Therefore, there is a feeling of togetherness and belongingness among residents of a locality where everybody contributes in case of any eventuality or mishappening, says Sidhu.
 
 There would be two categories of these volunteer officers. Ex-officio ones will include elected representatives of   institutions, municipal councilors and government employees like teachers, revenue officials, police, lecturers, panchayat secretaries, multi-purpose health workers and nambardars. Appointed officers will include former sarpanches and members of panchayats, ex-servicemen and guardians of governance, retired government employees, farmers, youth, religious and spiritual individuals as well as organisations, private school teachers, businessmen and labourers.
 
 Elaborating the need for such a programme, Sidhu explained, “One thing which we need to realise is that today you cannot claim that your neighbour is not doing drugs or your kids are not doing and they are not vulnerable. This is the thing which can target your near and dear ones at any stage.”
 
 The reason for engaging a large number of women as volunteer officers is that after their children leave home for schools and husbands for work, they sit together in the locality. The programme intends that these women should discuss the drug abuse in such daily meetings so that if a woman whose son or even daughter is doing drugs and it is known to everyone, she gets the social courage to bring them for de-addiction. The STF head reasons no agency, including the police, can reach every doorstep and as a resident of that locality, a person has personal stake in its welfare.
 
 
