In a bid to engage students in conservation of environment and give them hand on experience on forests, Voice Trust, an NGO, along with the forest department has taken a section of children from government school s in Trichy to the serene forest of Patchamalai Hill.

 The trip turned out to be an unforgettable experience for many students as they were venturing into the wild for the first time. They trekked the hills along with their teachers under the guidance of forest personnel having a hands on experience on various species of trees and their role in the eco system. They were also educated on the benefits of medicinal plants in the forest. A team of 24 student volunteers of National Green Corps from various schools were part of the field trip to Patchamalai.
 
 Feeling the chillness of the hill station for the first time, G Muruganandam, a student of class 9 from Government Boy’s Higher Secondary School, Thuvakudi realised the difference that trees can make to the atmosphere we live. He has developed an affinity towards trees after adopting planting of saplings as a hobby. "I feel happy to see them grow in my school. But it was for the first time that I am having an experience like this in the wild," he said.
 
 The field trip was organised for selected   volunteers, 2 students from each school, who had outperformed in the activities propagating environment conservation. S Veeramani, another student, said "We could feel humidity, then the sudden dip in temperature after walking a few metres into the forest. Entering one forest from another was altogether a different experience. This is how I felt while coming out of the air conditioned computer lab in my school, but the fresh air of the forest is unmatched," he said.
 
 Director, Voice Trust and Environment Coordinator for Lalgudi educational district A   said students of NGC meet every week to discuss their activities and plan awareness drives towards conserving environment. Such field trips help them relate to the cause, he said.
 
 Coordinator, Forum for Environment Protection K Chandrasekar who was also part of the trip said every school must take their children to such places that would help them lead a more sustainable life.
 
 
