NEW DELHI:   on Thursday alleged a “deep nexus” between some bureaucrats and the “ration mafia”, which, he claimed, was the reason behind “resistance” to the home delivery scheme.

 The allegations came soon after deputy chief minister Manish   claimed that the government had to postpone a Delhi cabinet meeting scheduled for Thursday because chief secretary Anshu Prakash again failed to come up with a proposal on the scheme. The government continues to maintain that the late-night meeting, which ended in an alleged assault of the chief secretary, was called to discuss the issue of ration disbursal. The agitating officers have, however, claimed that the tensions arose over a publicity campaign of the government. 
 
 Sources in bureaucracy said   had sought to meet CS around 12 noon. But Prakash reportedly informed the chief minister’s office that he would revert after consulting the joint forum of officers that is spearheading the protest against the government. Sources said the meeting couldn’t take place because there was no communication from CS after that. 
 
 Kejriwal, meanwhile, took to twitter to launch a fresh attack on the bureaucracy. “Delhi government is committed to root out corruption in public distribution system and implement doorstep delivery of ration despite resistance from bureaucracy and opposition parties (sic),” he tweeted. Alleging that officers were conniving with the ration mafia, Sisodia also claimed that even some senior bureaucrats were creating hurdles in implementation of the doorstep delivery of ration scheme. He accused   Anil Baijal of protecting the ration mafia. 
 
 The government claims that the scheme will not only root out corruption in PDS distribution, but also end harassment of the poor.
 
 Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal, the two AAP MLAs who had allegedly assaulted CS, have claimed that they were flooded with complaints from people about not getting ration due to leaks in the system. On February 20, the AAP government asked CS to prepare a proposal on doorstep delivery of ration and present it before the cabinet on February 27. Demanding an inquiry on the issue, Sisodia alleged: “When CS did not come up with the proposal on February 27, he was asked to do so on March 1. He again failed to comply. There is no urgency in the bureaucracy on the issue. It casts doubts that the officers are in connivance with the ration mafia (sic).” Kejriwal, too, claimed that members of opposition were benefiting from leaks in PDS distribution. 
 
 Sisodia alleged that CS “has sent the food commissioner on leave” till March 7 without the approval of the minister concerned, or CM. He claimed that Kejriwal had directed CS to ask the food commissioner to prepare the proposal on doorstep delivery of ration. The next cabinet meeting is scheduled for March 6.
 
 Minister for environment and food and civil supplies Imran Hussain, meanwhile, wrote to officers to send him weekly reports on crucial proposals.
 
 
