PUNE: The   is yet to come up with an action plan for implementing the ‘Mission Young and Fit India’, launched on Monday in the presence of cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar.

 
  
 
 Students’ organizations and activists dubbed inviting Sachin for the launch a tactic to enhance the university’s brand name. Activist Vijay Kumbhar said, “Why no youngsters were invited? It seems the university had some other agenda. Second, what is the point of launching something without any vision statement, aim and plan of action? It seems like they are blowing their own trumpet. Not many cricketers and film stars come without charging a hefty fee. So, the university needs to come clean on a lot of things, including how much money it is planning to spend for this.”
 
 Deepak Mane, the head of the department of the physical education, had no answers on the budget for the mission, the plan of action and the absence of students on the list of invitees to Sachin’s event. He just asked to “look at the entire event in a positive manner”.
 
 “Sporting” Mane said, “It doesn’t matter whether we approached Sachin or Sachin approached us. We currently have no plan of action or aim or anything. We wanted to inspire students by calling Sachin. We will discuss it in the future.”
 
 Senate member Santosh Dore said if the aim of calling Sachin was to inspire students, the programme should have been held on a ground or lawns. “At least the students in sports should have been invited. If this function was held in a sports ground, students could have come and heard him talk about fitness. If even one student would have decided to change himself, that would have been a great success,” said  , adding that if the filmset put up in the sports ground was not removed within 15 days, he would sit on a fast.
 
 The film set at the university sports ground is yet to be removed despite several reminders from the higher education directorate.
 
 A student said on the condition of anonymity, “I wanted to see Sachin. I knew I would not be able to talk to him, but I really wanted to see and hear him. The university used so much resources to bring a sporting legend to the campus, but for what? To make the heads of institutes happy in the name of inspiring students? The officials need to understand that students are the most important unit in a university.” 
 
 
