CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court on Monday asked   alias Bobby Kataria, who is accused in several cases in Gurugram, to approach the chief judicial magistrate (CJM)   for medical examination. The HC also issued directions to the CJM to take appropriate action on his plea for detailed medical examination and also to provide a lawyer who would assist the court as amicus in the matter.

 Justice A G Masih of the HC passed these orders while disposing off a petition filed by Bobby Kataria, a resident of village Bassai in Gurugram district. According to the petitioner, he was brutally tortured by the Gurugram and Faridabad police after implicating him falsely in several FIRs.
 
 “CJM to look into the allegations of the petitioner, as has been highlighted and recorded by him and to ensure that a competent legal aid counsel is provided to him in case he has not engaged any private counsel on his own. The legal aid counsel, thereafter, would take steps for redressal of grievance of the petitioner, if any, including moving appropriate application before the competent court for his medical examination, which should include the required tests which may also be an MRI, if so mandated or required,” ordered Justice Masih. Kataria’s counsel contended that the petitioner was implicated by Gurugram and Faridabad police in several cases and has been granted police remands of about 30 days in different cases. He had sought directions from the HC for comprehensive medical examination with advanced techniques like MRI to establish inhuman torture inflicted on him from December 24, 2017 till he was sent to judicial custody by the police.
 
 Further directions have also been sought for consequential action against the guilty persons, who not only violate with impunity the constitutional provisions and the right of silence but also go against the declared law of  , which has repeatedly stated that torture has no place in criminal investigation and interrogation. It was submitted that the HC had a constitutional obligation to prevent torture in custody wherever it occurred and to take appropriate legal action against the wrongdoer and compensate the victim.
 
 The petitioner’s counsel submitted that Kataria was tortured at various police stations of the state on the pretext of investigation. It was further claimed that his only fault is that he had made several videos of cops indulged in wrongdoings, viral on social media.
 
 
