MUMBAI: More than six months after chief minister Devendra Fadnavis announced a Rs 34,022 crore   scheme for 89 lakh  ,   spokesperson Sachin Sawant has found that the scheme has failed to take off in the real sense due to lack of coordination and dereliction of duty at all levels. 

 Sawant on Thursday disclosed that as on January 24, the cooperation department waived Rs 12,262 crore worth loans of 31 lakh farmers. “I procured data from the cooperation and finance department. The CM must admit that his government has failed to implement the scheme. The CM must fix responsibility for the mess in the information technology, cooperation and finance departments,’’ Sawant said.
 
 Sawant disclosed that while the CM had announced that 89 lakh farmers will benefit under the waiver scheme, after the cumbersome procedure introduced by the information technology department, only 77 lakh were able to submit on-line applications. Subsequently, only 47,46,222 farmers were declared eligible for loan waivers. “So far, loans of 31 lakh farmers have been waived, while 16,46,168 farmers are waiting for justice,’’ Sawant said.
 
 He said even the one-time settlements appear to be misleading as more than eight lakh farmers may not benefit. “The one-time settlement scheme is illegal and has not been approved by RBI,’’ he said.
 
 
 
 
 Leader of Opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil said he was shocked to see special branch officials in his chamber while interacting with the media. “Leader of Opposition is under surveillance. It’s unacceptable...I have lodged a protest with the city police commissioner. I am also meeting Governor Vidyasagar Rao led by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis,’’ Vikhe Patil said.
 
 While Vikhe Patil was interacting with the media on pesticide deaths in Yavatmal, Kamala mills fire and a suicide attempt by a Dhule farmer, two officials quietly entered the room and occupied chairs. “We will not be deterred by such surveillance tactics of the CM,’’ Vikhe Patil said.
 
 Vikhe Patil iterated his demand for a CBI probe into the mill fire and immediate suspension of municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta. “If the CM is serious in tackling corruption in BMC, he must first suspend Mehta and order a CBI probe. The entire demolition drive launched by Mehta is the biggest farce. If information on illegal and unauthorised structures was available with BMC, it was shocking that Mehta failed to act. He woke up only after the death of 14 innocent persons,’’ Vikhe Patil said.
 
 State Congress president Ashok Chavan condemned the home department decision to deploy special branch sleuths. “I was also chief minister of  , we never indulged in such activities. It needs to be condemned in strongest possible words,” Chavan said. Prafulla Marpakwar
 
 
