NOIDA: In Dadri’s Bisada village, which leapt into national news after the 2015 murder of Mohammad   by a mob that suspected he had eaten and stored beef, an effort is under way to reach a settlement in the  .

 Akhlaq’s family now lives in Delhi but his brother Jaan Mohammad is in   and says two of those   of killing Akhlaq, Vivek and Gaurav, had visited his house and proposed to bury the hatchet. “Gaurav and Vivek said they have served several months in jail (after being arrested; they are now out on bail). They asked me to withdraw the case filed against them. In exchange, they said they will withdraw the case filed against us for cow slaughter. I did not accept the offer, as we have not committed any crime,” Jaan Mohammad said, adding he has been receiving calls and messages for withdrawing the case since the   took place on September 28, 2015. “But this was the first time they came to our house and proposed a compromise. I feel this was a move to put pressure on us,” he said.
 
 Vivek’s father Om Kumar admitted his son had visited Jaan Mohammad’s house. “My son and other persons want to resolve the matter and withdraw cases filed from both sides. That party did not agree to the proposal. I do not know what else happened in the meeting,” he said.
 
 Gautam Budh Nagar   chief Ajay Pal Sharma said he will inquire soon and take necessary action to ensure a fair probe.
 
 Police   18 local youths, including three minors and filed a 181-page document (4 page charge-sheet and 177 page case diary) in the case. The juveniles were released on bail in September 2016. One of the accused, Ravi, died in judicial custody in October 2016 after a prolonged illness. All the others are now out on bail.
 
 In July 2017, a case of cow slaughter was registered against Akhlaq and his family members on the direction of the Surajpur court. Bisada residents, headed by Surajpal Singh (65), had filed an application, based on which the case was filed against Akhlaq, his wife Ikraman, mother Asghari, Jaan Mohammad, daughter Shaishta and son Danish in the complaint.
 
 
