Tuticorin/Tirunelveli: Six tourists from Madhya Pradesh were killed and seven others, including the driver, critically injured when the van on which they were heading for Kanyakumari fell off a 10-foot-high bridge at Thalavaipuram near Kayathar in Tuticorin in the wee hours of Wednesday. It is learnt that the tourists were relatives.

 Police said that the incident took place between 3 am and 3.30 am and that six of the victims, including two women, died on the spot. The tourists had hired the van from Madurai and G Muthukamatchi, 43, was driving it. He apparently lost control of the vehicle while on the Thalavaipuram bridge on the national highway which was near a curve. There was difficulty rescuing the victims as they were trapped under the vehicle. The deceased were identified as Ramesh Kumar Thovani, 53, Lal Chand Somechani, 73, his brother Diggam Das, 56, Vinthya Bhai, 60, of Ujjain, and Kanchiya Lal, 67, and his wife Rekha Savelani, 61, of Indore.
 
 The bodies were sent to the Tirunelveli government medical college and hospital for post-mortem. Sunitha, 47, Sonam Thovani, 48, Chandra, 57 (wife of Kanchiyal who got killed), Sarala, 42, Thulasi Dettoni, 51, and Mukesh, 11, all from Ujjain and Indore districts, as well as van driver Muthukamatchi escaped with multiple fractures and other injuries. They were rushed to the same hospital and administered first aid. “But, on their insistence, they were referred to a private orthopaedic hospital in the city,” said dean in-charge of the hospital M Ravichandran. He added that the injured were out of danger. Post-mortem was performed on the six bodies by noon and despatched to Madurai from where they were airlifted to their home state.
 
 Superintendent of police of Tuticorin district P Mahendran visited the accident spot and conducted a preliminary inquiry on the incident. Rescue operations such as removal of the van from the dry channel affected traffic on the highway for some time. Kayathar police said that the van driver was booked under sections 304(A) (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code. 
 
 
