NAGPUR: In a major relief for   state board students, junior college teachers have ended their boycott of   (Std XII) answersheets on Monday after their association and education department reached a consensus over major issues.

 Over 5 lakh answersheets have piled up in Nagpur division alone with the statewide figure being estimated at around 70 lakh, as paper moderators refused to initiate the process of valuation. The boycott had been in place for the last 10 days, since the first paper started.
 
 Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association ( ), said, “The state government has agreed to most of our demands and in a show of good faith we have decided to take back our ongoing boycott of paper valuation. The government still has to get everything cleared from the finance department but keeping the interest of students in mind, we won’t prolong our boycott.”
 
 VJUCTA and its state-level organization, Maharashtra Junior College Teachers Association ( ), coordinated closely with each other for the boycott campaign. They have total 24 demands but the key demands are related to salary and pension, apart from grant-in-aid to schools.
 
 The valuation process for HSC will begin from Tuesday and Gavhankar clarified that there won’t be any delay in declaration of results. “Our members will finish off valuation in time adhering to the quality of work that we are known for. There won’t be any delay in result declaration due to our boycott,” said Gavhankar.
 
 For the six districts under Nagpur division, moderators for each subject will now be called to the board’s Civil Lines. Each moderator will be given a paper valuation instruction sheet, commonly called docket, and briefed about their workload and deadline. These moderators then distribute papers to the evaluators, whose numbers can range anywhere between 10 and 15. For the major and mandatory papers, just over 100 moderators take charge while for the optional papers sometimes less than five are in charge.
 
 
