NEW DELHI: The   on Wednesday brought   owner   and his son Rahul to its headquarters in Delhi and subjected them to intensive questioning about the Rs 3,695-crore fraud allegedly perpetrated on seven public sector banks.

 
 Earlier, Kothari was being questioned in Kanpur where his company and residence is located.
 
 Bank of Baroda had approached CBI on Sunday requesting an FIR against Kothari as the bank apparently feared he might leave the country.
 
 In its FIR, CBI has alleged that Rotomac had taken loans from Bank of India, Bank of Maharashtra, Indian Overseas Bank, Union Bank of India, Allahabad Bank and Oriental Bank of Commerce to the tune of Rs 2,919 crore. The total outstanding amount along with interest and liabilities for the company were pegged at Rs 3,695 crore.
 
 Sources told TOI that Vikram Kothari is being asked about the modus operandi used by him, including use of shell companies abroad to transfer money in his accounts on the pretext of importing and exporting goods.
 
 The banks have alleged that Rotomac violated the FEMA rules as well while conducting business transactions abroad. CBI and ED have named Kothari’s company – Rotomac Global Private Limited, his wife Sadhana Kothari, son Rahul and unknown officials of banks in its FIR.
 
 The scam was earlier estimated to be around Rs 800 crore but in its complaint filed on Sunday, Bank of Baroda gave details of money disbursed to Rotomac over the years and modus operandi used by Kothari and others to cheat the banks.
 
 CBI spokesperson Abhishek Dayal had told mediapersons that, “The credit sanctioned and disbursed to the company was utilised for purposes other than executing export orders. For example, credit sanctioned for export order received from Singapore for supply of wheat was diverted to another company M/s   Pvt Ltd. This money was later remitted into the account of Rotomac by Bargadia Brothers,” said Dayal.
 
 It has been further alleged that Rotomac’s maximum transactions were with limited number of buyers, sellers, sister and subsidiary companies.
 
 
