Nagpur: The state public works department’s (PWD) Rs300 crore 45km Inner Ring Road Cement Concrete Road Project, which was to be completed by September 23, 2017, has progressed mere 46% (20.7km) in 32 months since the contract was awarded to Mumbai-based RPS Infraprojects Pvt Ltd.

 The inordinate delay is causing serious inconvenience to hundreds of citizens and financial loss to the central and state governments. Considering the pace at which the project is being executed,   is unlikely to complete the project by the extended deadline of September 23, 2018, which is just four months away, reveal documents obtained under RTI by activist Suraj Lolge.
 
 Data provided by the PWD shows RPS Infra has completed concretization of just 20.70km of the total stretch of 45km as on date. The financial progress of the project is much less compared to physical progress. Works costing Rs 61.59 crore of the total Rs 292.72 crore have been completed as on March 31.
 
 The project is progressing at a snail’s pace which is evident from the fact that widening of the Inner Ring Road between Mankapur and Dabha is incomplete. Widening works have been completed only on 6.50km of the total stretch of 9km. Works have been completed only on two of the 12 bridges.
 
 Interestingly, the PWD has taken no action against RPS Infra despite the delay. Earlier also, the PWD had turned a blind eye to inferior quality of works by the same company.
 
 The delay is resulting in inconvenience to commuters. Best example is the stretch between Khamla Square and Chhatrapati Square. At present, concretization work on one side of the stretch is going on. Traffic on the road is immense round-the-clock. Two-way traffic is being allowed on only one side causing congestion and mishaps. Besides, the stretches where the works are yet to be taken up are in very bad shape. Best example is the stretch between Mhalgi Nagar and Kalamna where potholes are common. Also, street lights and traffic signals at many places are non-functional due to the ongoing works.
 
 A PWD officer told TOI action will be taken against RPS Infra after assessing the works. “Along with delay from private company, hurdles like utility shifting delayed the project to a great extent. Decision on whether to grant further extension to RPS Infra will be taken in coming days,” he said.
 
 The project has already been marred by controversies including shoddy quality of works, appointment of petty contractors by RPS Infra, violations in royalty etc.
 
 
