Pic of Arnhav saved in f/swati/Arnhav

 Graphics released separately
 
 Pune: Sharat Bhat, who secured the 31st rank in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains and is probably the highest scorer in the city with 333 marks, feels he is halfway through to his aim of getting into IIT Bombay. 
 
 "I want to be a computer engineer," Sharat said. His father and elder sister are engineers while his mother is a housewife. "I used to have class for five and half hours and I studied for another five and half hours. But no matter what happened, I always slept for eight hours a day," Bhat said. 
 
 His favourite hobby is star-gazing and he was also a silver medallist in 2015 Astronomy Olympiad.
 
 Speed and accuracy helped Arnhav Datar secure the all-India rank of 41. Arnhav has been preparing for the exam for five years and is a student of Arihant College of Arts, Science and Commerce.
 
 Arnhav said, "I will now focus on my JEE Advanced examination. I want to get into one of the top five Indian Institutes of Technology. Now, I will prepare with full vigour for the advanced exam."
 
 About 12 lakh students across India and abroad appeared for the JEE Mains exam of which 10.46 lakh students appeared for the offline exam on April 8. 
 
 An estimated 1.5 lakh students from Maharashtra, of whom about 30,000 students from Pune also appeared for the exam. A total of 2,24,400 students will make it to the JEE Advanced exam. Of these 1,12,200 will be from the open category and the rest 1,12,200 from the reserved categories.
 
 Vaibhav Bakliwal, founder of Bakliwal Tutorials, said, "Students already knew their scores, but they were happy with the ranks declared as they were better than their expectations. Nine of our students have got ranks in the top 1,000 with around 400 selections."
 
 Last year, the cut-off was 81 marks for the general category, which was significantly lesser than the cut off in 2016, when it was 100. This year, the cut off has fallen to 74. 
 
 The paper was tough and the number of students who will appear for the JEE Advanced exam is 2.24 lakh, which is more than the previous years, Bakliwal said.
 
 Pune-based IITian’s Prashikshan Kendra (IIT-P) has over 306 students making it to the JEE Advanced exam. Chinmay Bharti secured 197 all-India rank, the best performance for this tutorial.
 
 “The JEE this year was the toughest in the past 16 years since AIEEE started in 2002. It is evident from the lowest cut-off ever. Systematic coaching at IIT-P has enabled our students to crack it though it was challenging this year,” Durgesh Mangeshkar, director of IIT-P, said.
 
 From FIITJEE’s Pune centre, 25 students scored more than 200 marks out of 360. Anuj Srivastava got 323 marks and secured the 68th rank in the all-India category. 
 
 "I feel relieved and motivated to have scored well to clear JEE Mains. I am not celebrating as yet. I will return to my studies with renewed focus as I do not want to leave any stone unturned before the JEE Advanced,” Anuj said.
 
 The final hurdle still remains to be conquered for the students and making it through the first-round results are understandably thrilled yet conscious.
 
 From Adhyayan Institute, there are over 20 selections above the cut-off, Sukanya Sengupta from the institute said in a statement. From the Pune centre of Prime Academy, more than 20 students scored over 200 marks, Lalit Kumar, chief managing director, of the academy said.
 
 Sri Chaitanya Pune had Dheeraj Konde securing 281 marks with an AIR of 530. A total of 151 students of their first batch qualified for JEE Advanced, a statement from the institution said.
 
 
