NAVI MUMBAI: City-based environmentalist, who filed a public interest litigation in the Bombay high court for protection of   along   near  , has said that he will file a fresh affidavit before the next hearing seeking removal of all the debris dumped at the site. 

 Sunil Agarwal, the petitioner, said, “Last month, a joint site inspection of the wetland area took place wherein state forest officials from the mangroves cell personally saw how the debris has been dumped. While the forest department has asked the opposite party to remove debris from a particular section of the wetland, we feel that the entire debris dumped should be cleared. I will file a fresh affidavit in the high court for a debris-free spot.” 
 
 With the next court hearing scheduled for June 14, Agarwal said that there is some time left to further study precise findings of the recent joint inspection and with help of advocates and co-petitioners, the Navi Mumbai Environment Preservation Society (NMEPS), a fresh affidavit will be filed. 
 
 In October 2013, NMEPS had filed its first PIL in the high court seeking protection of mangroves and wetlands in various parts of Navi Mumbai, including the stretch along Palm Beach Road. Since, Agarwal’s petition in March 2018 is similar to that of NMEPS's PIL, both were clubbed together and are jointly being heard by a two-judge high court bench.
 
 Meanwhile, besides the known cases of wetlands destruction placed before the court by petitioners, some new cases of similar nature are also being collated by environmentalists for future reference. “I have informed NMEPS and Agarwal about massive debris dumping Sectors 18 and 19 next to a waterbody of Kharghar. It is frustrating that despite the ongoing court cases and formation of the Wetlands Grievance Redressal Committee, there are still a lot of new, illegal activities taking place further damaging the wetlands in Navi Mumbai,” said activist D Stalin. Agarwal added, “I have been informed by a Kharghar resident about mangroves being destroyed near the   project in Sector 14. We are studying these cases to see how to follow them up in continuation of our legal battle.”
 
 
