Coimbatore: The rural police arrested 56 members of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) for not allowing police to discharge their duty. On Thursday night, a group of AIADMK cadres damaged more than 15 cars belonging to TTV Dhinakaran's supporters near Vadavalli. Subsquently, TTV supporters staged a road blockade to take action against the AIADMK cadres. However, the rural police arrested TTV supporters and produced them before the judicial magistrate court –VI on Friday evening. 

 They were remanded in judicial custody for 15 days and lodged in the Coimbatore central prison. 
 
 The action came after 28-year-old R Sathishkumar from Vadavalli lodged a complaint saying his car was damaged by AMMK cadres. Based on his complaint, police registered a case against AMMK cadres including the district secretary Challenger Durai under Sections 147, 148, 294 (b), 323, 341, 506 (ii) of IPC and Section 3 (2) of the Tamil Nadu Property Prevention of Damage and Loss Act.
 
 Also, M Ramachandran, sub-inspector of police, Vadavalli police station lodged a complaint against the AMMK cadres stating that the cadres blocked the busy Vadavalli Road on Thursday night for more than an hour and didn’t allow police to do their duty. A case against 56 cadres was registered under sections 143, 188 and 341 of the IPC. 
 
 The cadres were evacuated from the road on Thursday night and kept in a marriage hall near Thondamuthur. The police brought them to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for a medical test. 
 
 Condemning the police’s action, AMMK district secretary Challenger Durai said that the AIADMK cadres attacked AMMK cadres while they were returning home after a meeting. Instead of taking action on the AIADMK members, the police have foisted fake cases and arrested the AMMK cadres 
 
 A few representatives from TTV also lodged a complaint with the additional superintendent of police (ADSP) GS Anitha, seeking action against the AIADMK cadres. 
 
 Meanwhile, TTV issued a statement in which he alleged that it was based on the local minister SP Velmani’s instructions, AIADMK cadres have involved in the clash. He also said the party would stage a massive protest against the ruling party and police to condemn the attack.
 
 
