CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a notice to the finance and education departments of Haryana on a plea against denial of house rent allowance ( ) by the Haryana government to its employees in terms with the recommendations of  .

 
 According to the petitioners, the employees of the state government are being paid less HRA since January 1, 2016, and are facing a huge monetary loss every month because of the state government’s apathy towards them. The petitioners, mostly serving in the education department, have sought directions for quashing the actions of the Haryana government for granting HRA on the lower side, as the same is in contravention of the Haryana gazette notification issued by the finance department on July 19, 2016, vide which it has been directed to pay HRA on the emoluments (including non-practising allowance).
 
 Further directions have also been sought to fix the pay of the employees after adding the percentage of HRA on their present basic pay, as per the July 2016 notification, and grant arrears and other consequential benefits, along with 18% interest from January 1, 2016.
 
 The matter has reached before the HC in the wake of a bunch of petitions filed by   and several other other employees serving in the state’s education department. Hearing their plea, Justice Arun Palli of HC has asked the additional chief secretaries of the departments of finance and secondary education to file their replies on the contentions raised by the petitioners by July 17.
 
 According to the petitioners, the Haryana government is not paying the 10% of HRA on the existing monthly basic pay of the employees. Explaining the case, one of the petitioners informed the HC that he was having a basic pay of Rs 58,600 and the state government is paying him HRA to the tune of Rs 2,182, which is against the state’s own rules. According to the petitioners, as per the rules, they deserved to be paid Rs 5,860 per month as HRA with effect from January 1, 2016, and the arrears along with 18% interest.
 
 Counsel for the petitioners, Sandeep Goyat, claimed that despite several representations and meetings with the state authorities, no action was taken in regard to granting them the HRA as per rules.
 
 As per rules, an employee living in a city having a population of less than five lakh (categorized as ‘Z’), would be entitled to get 10% HRA on his basic pay. The grouse of the employees is that they are being given 10% HRA, but on the basic pay defined under the Sixth Pay Commission, not on the basis of Seventh Pay Commission. The basic pay re-structured under the Seventh Pay Commission is almost double that of the Sixth Pay Commission.
 
 
