NEW DELHI: Had the Ghuman Hera gram   devised a solution to the dispute over six bighas of land, 45-year-old   Anita Yadav and her   Jai Kishan may have still been alive.

 A day after the siblings were murdered, eight police teams were sent to various hideouts of the suspects, senior officers said. The prime accused, Naveen Yadav, shot dead Anita after an argument after barging into her house along with a few other men. The second accused, who had held the school owner and Anita’s husband, Ashok Yadav, at gunpoint has been identified as Sandeep. He is a native of Rae Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. SHO ( ) Harish Chander has been transferred.
 
 While five bighas of the land belonged to Naveen’s aunt, one bigha was in his wife Sunita’s name. He had taken a loan of Rs 15 lakh from his aunt. She asked him to help her sell off the plot after which she would keep Rs 15 lakh and Naveen could have the rest. Naveen then made a deal with Anita for around Rs 1.25 crore with Jai Kishan being the intermediary. Anita paid Rs 80 lakh at the time and a power of attorney was made in her favour. Naveen later started pressuring her for the remainder amount as he had to pay his aunt. He even offered that Anita keep the land worth Rs 80 lakh and transfer the rest in his name. This became the bone of contention between both parties. Ashok said that he would return the land if he was given the market price. However, Naveen refused to pay it. It was also found that Naveen was already fighting a case of bounced cheque lodged against him.
 
 Three panchayat meetings were held to resolve their dispute, which was also attended by former MLAs of the area. However, both of them refused to budge and the panchayat failed to devise a solution. Police said that Naveen was under pressure from his relatives who wanted the ancestral land. He then started threatening and pressuring Jai Kishan.
 
 A CCTV camera was found installed outside the room on the terrace where Ashok Yadav lived with his wife and son. Cops were hoping to get vital clues from its footage, but they discovered that the camera had gone dysfunctional three days before the incident.
 
 Footage received from other CCTV cameras installed in the village show that the accused came in two cars, thus confirming the involvement of more people in the crime. Cops are also examining the call details between Naveen and Jai Kishan and also considering re-enacting the sequence of events.
 
 
