MOHALI:   is not just restricted to Derabassi and   but spread across the entire Mohali district, with the Kandi area covering Mullanpur, Khizrabad, Parol,   and Kharar being the most affected.

 Despite 74 FIRs and seizure of JCBs and tipper trucks, there is no end to the illegal activity.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner Chanadev Singh Mann, the nodal officer for mining, said, “As many as 66 FIRs were registered against illegal miners in the district last year, while eight FIRs have been registered this year so far in Derabassi, Kharar and Mullanpur. We have been successful in closing down all illegal crushers in the district. Now, only those crushers which have been given permission to operate are under usage.” But at the ground, there is no change, Residents said Punjab chief minister   should fly over Kandi area of Mohali to get first-hand information.
 
 “The CM is perhaps not updated about the illegal activity in villages in Kandi area,” said Sher Mohammad, former sarpanch of Khizrabad. He said he has been continuously raising the issue even after being threatened repeatedly. Mohammad said, “The CM must once fly over Khizrabad area and he will be shocked to see over 60ft of land being dug up illegally to extract sand and gravel. Illegal mining is ruining the forest cover and the land of our village. Deforestation is alarming and we have been raising the issue with the administration but till date no action has been taken. Over 30 to 40 tipper trucks operate every night from Khizrabad area and there is no one to check the operations.”
 
 Recently, Amarinder Singh flew over Jalandhar and Nawanshahr district in a helicopter to spot illegal mining going on in Sutlej riverbed. The very next day the Punjab government launched a crackdown on illegal mining and the CM ordered Derabassi sub-divisional magistrate to report to chief secretary and shifted   and Zirakpur SHO to police lines for failing to curb the menace.
 
 Ground officers to be blamed: DC
 
 Last year, deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra conducted surprise checks at illegal mining sites in Khizrabad village under Kharar sub-division after she came to know that over 400 acres of forest land had been dug up as deep as 50ft and 35 to 40 stone crushers were operating in the area. The checks were made following complaints filed by residents.
 
 Sapra said, “Ground officers are to be blamed for no vigil on illegal mining. Junior officers of all three departments — forests, revenue and panchayati raj — have not performed their duties. We will also question them for not informing officials about the activity on time.” The special task force constituted by the DC to check illegal mining has failed to bring about any result as it returns empty handed every time after carrying out checks.
 
 Mohali moots plan to declare two mining sites legal
 
 The Mohali administration has mooted a plan to declare two mining sites legal in Majri block of Kharar in Mohali. Around 90 to 92 acres of land has been identified, for which a proposal has been sent to the government for approval, said additional deputy commissioner. He said efforts are being made to legalise the mining with a view to discourage the illegal miners. He said, “Two sites have been identified to be auctioned for legal mining. This will be for the first time that legal mining sites will be auctioned in Majri block. Earlier, we had around 18 legal mining sites in Derabassi area.” However, residents of Majri block and Khizrabad have opposed the move. The affected residents also met the DC and urged her not to sanction this plan. The DC said, “We will take a call on the issue within a few days. We have been making efforts to curtail illegal mining. Our motive is not to disturb environmental aspect but to conserve forest and keep area safe for residents.”
 
 NO END TO MENACE
 
 66 | FIRs registered against illegal mining last year
 
 8 | FIRs registered against illegal mining this year so far 
 
 Kandi area covering Mullanpur, Khizrabad, Parol, Majri and Kharar the most-affected
 
 DC conducted surprise checks last year after reports that 400 acres of forest land had been dug up as deep as 50ft in Khizrabad
 
 
