NEW DELHI: In putting retired Justice S N Dhingra at the helm of a freshly set up   on anti-Sikh riots, the   seems to have gone by his track record.

 The retired Delhi high court judge has a history of dispatching the “high and mighty” to jail and passing scathing strictures if he came across botched investigation or prosecution.
 
 As an intrepid trial judge during the 1990s, Dhingra jailed senior Congress minister H K L Bhagat in one anti-Sikh riot case and another sitting minister Kalpanath Rai on charges of corruption that later fell through. Old timers recall how those politicians — then at the peak of their career — became desperate to come out on bail after being incarcerated, with Bhagat even unsuccessfully petitioning high court to remove Dhingra from the case on charges of bias.
 
 Known for bold judgments, Dhingra once sent Delhi government into panic mode when he sentenced an ex CEO of Delhi Jal Board to imprisonment for polluting Yamuna river and ignoring court directions.
 
 When he starts to supervise the SIT, Dhingra will be on familiar territory, as he extensively tried several cases relating to the 1984 killings and delivered judgments laced with hard-hitting observations against Delhi Police and its wayward prosecution.
 
 As a trial judge in Karkardooma courts, Dhingra faced listless investigation, chaotic evidence spread across several police stations and an uninterested prosecution, not to mention scared witnesses. He streamlined prosecution in these cases by clubbing nearly 100 FIRs lodged across the city into a single case and mapped case details to enable faster trial.
 
 Civil rights activists and lawyers have documented how judge Dhingra, in a series of judgments in 1994-96 period such as State vs Shayam Vir; State vs Ram Pal Saroj; State vs Amir Chand; State vs Kishori & Shabnam; State vs Ramu Dhol Wala and Ors brought out in detail how police deliberately lodged vague FIRs, ignored key eye witnesses and diluted the cases.
 
 In one such trial Dhingra had observed, “While in Nov 1984 democratic values were slaughtered and soul of Indian constitution was burned in daylight by the rioters, what happened after the riots was still worse and the justice itself has been slaughtered by sheer non investigation and total absence of concern. 
 
 
