CHANDIGARH: The   and   high court warned Chandigarh police not to compel the HC to pass strict orders against them as far as traffic violators and violations are concerned. 

 Expressing displeasure over an incident, the HC bench comprising of justices A K   and A S   observed that "Are PCR and police officials are there to show off ?" Pointing out the working style of Chandigarh police, justice A K Mittal observed that on Wednesday morning, he himself noticed that a traffic violator created nuisance with modified silencer following which he called up SHO of Sector 3 to catch hold of him. To his utter shock, neither the traffic violator was caught and nor the SHO turned up at 9.30am, despite being called by HC judge. HC observed that there is no need to give detailed affidavits and data in HC when the ground reality is entirely different.
 
  
  
 
 HC also said it wanted to know that who that "influencial person" was against whom Chandigarh police could not act. HC gave these observations while hearing a PIL related to women not wearing helmets and directed Chandigarh police to take stringent actions on traffic violators.
 
 HC directed Chandigarh police to penalise the violators heavily so that it acts as a deterrent. HC also observed that public should be educated enough so that when on road, they observe traffic rules. It stated that people should be aware of how to behave while they on roads. Why should police have to be present on the roads always to keep a check whether the commuters are following the rules or not, HC asked.
 
 HC also directed Chandigarh police to ensure that pedestrians should be given importance. HC also observed that the public should have a traffic sense and give way to pedestrians.
 
 It suggested Chandigarh police to award whoever sends video traffic violations and other information regarding violations on their App.
 
 Also, Chandigarh administration gave the copy of the notification in court stating amendment in Chandigarh motor vehicle rules whereby helmet is made compulsory for women except those Sikh women who wear turbans.
 
 HC directed Chandigarh police to give status report on traffic violations by next date of hearing and ensure that there are zebra crossings everywhere.
 
 
