MUMBAI: The premier IIT-Bombay will soon get its first museum and archives to showcase some of their own projects and exhibits. Work on the long-pending project will finally commence in a few months and once ready, it will be open to outsiders too. 

 The institute has formed a committee to decide what could be showcased at the museum. The museum along with an exhibition centre will be housed in the basement of a building and will be spread over 15,000 square feet on the campus.
 
 Director of the institute, Devang  , said that the museum will be open for schoolchildren and other enthusiasts. "The new   building, which is primarily for the institute's innovation and entrepreneurship society, will have the museum in the basement. A committee has been formed to decide what could be showcased in the museum. We may exhibit some of our own research projects done on the campus. Even the Industrial Design Centre will move into the new building," said Khakhar. 
 
 The focus right now is to create the facility, said the director. The project is likely to be ready by 2025.
 
 The museum is not the only project in the pipeline, the landmark infinite corridor that is approximately 450 metres long and connects majority of the departments in the academic area will be donning a new look soon. Infinite corridor is one of the landmark structures, on the campus for the current as well as past students.
 
 The corridor which was built about 60 years ago is being demolished to make way for a new one with better construction material and drainage system, said the dean (infrastructure planning and support), BVS Viswanadham. "Most of the core departments are connected to it so students and faculty are likely to be inconvenienced for some time. But there are parallel routes, rear-side entrances to the departments that will be used for a few months," said the dean. 
 
 He added that the corridor has seen a lot of wear and tear in the past few years and was repaired several times. "The best solution was to demolish the structurally unfit corridor and reconstruct a new one," he said.
 
 An additional corridor, about 150 metres longer than the infinite corridor, to connect the farthest point on the campus (near hostels 12, 13 and 14) to the central library and the academic area, is also in the pipeline. "Already there is an existing footpath which will be covered to ensure students can walk down to the academic area even in the monsoon," said the dean.
 
 
