AGRA
  The government of   has sought a report from the administration of all district and central jails for release of very old prisoners. In the first phase, inmates who are over 80 years of age and have completed 14 years in jail will be released. This will be followed by those between 70 and 80 years of age who have completed 18 years behind bars. The state government has directed officials to work on the matter on a priority basis.
 
  According to directives issued by  , UP principal secretary, there are 828 convicts who are above 60 years of age and who have served more than 14 years each in prisons across the state. Of these, 66 are above 80 years of age. Besides, 100 prisoners are in the 70-80 years’ age group and have completed 18 years in jail.
  
  Kumar has asked authorities of all district and central jails to forward reports on mercy petitions of all old prisoners in two categories to the headquarters of   (PARS), Lucknow by February 28. He has directed that all the petitions for early release be approved by district magistrates and senior superintendents of police. After getting reports from all district and central jails, the inspector-general of PARS will send a compliance report to the state government by March 15, 2018.
  
  Human rights activist  , who had been working for release of old prisoners said, “The state has provision for release of prisoners who have completed 14 years in jail or are above 60 years of age.   on July 23, 2015 had removed several restrictions in this regard. Following its orders, inmates who had spent 14 years in jail were released by almost all the state governments. In UP, the matter has been taken seriously after much delay but still it is a welcome move as far as old prisoners are concerned.”
  
  According to Paras, there are around 2,000 inmates in five central jails of UP who have completed a minimum term of 14 years and a maximum of 40 years. Dozens of inmates in different jails are above 70 years of age and are suffering from health complications. These prisoners do daily chores with much difficulty and require assistance. “They require proper medical facilities. Keeping them in jail is a clear violation of human rights,” Paras said.
  
  “Most central jails in UP are overloaded with convicts. Releasing those who have completed 14 years in prison will improve the living condition inside jails. Every prisoner dreams to be free. The old prisoners dream of dying in the presence of their family members. Nobody wants to die in jail. Like other states, UP should free prisoners who have spent 14 years in jail as early as possible,” Paras added.
