JAISALMER: In western   child marriages are taking place in many castes even today. Despite lots of restriction by administration and efforts to stop child marriages, it is still rampant in many communities. The example was seen on Sunday when on social media a 15-year-old minor husband beat his 20-year old wife and the video of the entire incident became viral. The video showed the husband trying to get his wife to sit on his motorbike. The girl kept walking and didn’t listen to him therefore, the teen husband started beating his wife black and blue and even dragged her and was outraging her modesty. Interestingly, two persons were filming the entire incident and their shadows were also visible in the video but they did not try to stop the boy beating his wife. 

 The video was filmed 30km away from Jaisalmer, at Bhu village. Reportedly, the girl was walking to her parents house when the husband started beating her and dragging her back home.
 
 Confirming this, Jaisalmer SP Gaurav   said, “The 15-year-old boy of the jogi community was married to the girl who is five years elder to him when they were children. Six months ago, the girl had come to the house of her in-laws.” The SP further said that the girl earned around rupees 2000 by doing some labour work. Issues between the couple started when she refused to give her husband money for tobacco and decided to go back to her parents’ house for which the husband refused. 
 
 “The girl was annoyed so she started walking when the minor boy went to bring her back home and asked to climb on his bike. On refusing, he started beating his wife and was dragging her on the road. He even tore her clothes. In the video, the screams and cries of the girl can be clearly heard,” the SP said.
 
 SP Yadav said on getting information about the video, the minor husband was caught and brought to child welfare committee where he was warned for his actions. However, the girl refused to lodge any case and said that a compromise has been made and her brother has brought her to her parents’ home.
 
 
