TUMAKURU: Everyone is a political pundit in poll-bound Tumakuru district. Travel anywhere in the district, and all discussions at tea shops and street corners veer around vote swing, caste arithmetic and who is backing whom. But most conversations end on one note: “It will be a tough fight though.”

 
 There are reasons for uncertainty prevailing in Tumakuru district, known as Kalpataru Nadu, the land of coconuts. In 2013, when JD(S) won six of the 11 constituencies in the district,   four TIPTUR and BJP one, the contests were straight fights between two of the three contenders. But this time, thanks to party hoppers, ticket aspirants who have turned rebels or stayed neutral and politics of matchfixing and adjustment, even veterans in the fray are wary of asserting that they’d win in all constituencies.
 
  
  
 
 All eyes in the district are on Koratagere and Sira segments, which are witnessing high-profile contests. Congress state president G Parameshwara, who lost to Sudhakara Lal PR from JD(S) in last elections, is sweating it out to regain Koratagere. The Cong heavyweight is banking on sympathy and welfare schemes of his government, while rival Lal is hoping that his low profile itself could be an advantage.
 
 Congressman  , who was first elected to the legislature in 1978 from Sira, is facing one of the toughest challenges due to anti-incumbency and charges of favouritism against him. Satyanarayana from JD(S) is posing a strong challenge to him. But S R Gowdru, an ex-JD(S) leader, contesting from BJP has made the battle interesting.
 
 In most other constituencies, BJP and Congress are in a soup after changing candidates in the last-minute or giving tickets to turncoats. This could be advantageous for the JD(S). In Chikkanayakanahalli, Congress workers are unhappy as the ticket was given to Santhosh Jayachandra, son of senior minister Jayachandra, instead of Sasalu Satish, who is believed to have worked hard to expand the party base in the segment. BJP too is facing a similar situation for fielding JC Madhuswamy instead of KS Kiran Kumar, a former MLA from the constituency.
 
 In Tiptur too, Congress created confusion by replacing K Shadakshari as its candidate in the second list, instead of B Nanjamari. The latter has turned rebel and is contesting as an independent. In Pavagada, BJP has complicated things over the choice of its candidate GV Balaram.
 
 In Tumakuru city, senior BJP leader Sogadu Shivanna is keeping off the party campaign as he was denied ticket.
 
 JD(S) is likely to continue to be the dominant party, but lose some seats and gain some in the bargain. Given BJP’s aggressive campaigning, Congress could be the loser.
 
