GURUGRAM: A dhaba spread over 1,000 square yards was razed to the ground on Wednesday in Haiderpur Viran falling in the environmentally protected Aravalis. 

 
 The dhaba off Gurugram-Faridabad Road had been running illegally for the past eight years, forest department officials said. 
 
 This was the second drive in the past 15 days by the forest department, often accused of turning a blind eye to encroachments in the Aravalis.
 
 On Wednesday, a team, comprising a duty magistrate, around 30 forest staff from the Gurugram and Sohna range and seven cops, demolished the dhaba with the help of earth movers.
 
 Under the Punjab Land Preservation (PLPA) Act, 1900, and the Aravalis notification, any kind of construction in the area is prohibited.
 
 Reportedly, the forest department had visited the dhaba on May 3 but the land owner had showed them fake documents and managed to stall the drive. 
 
 “We got the information from local people that the dhaba had been operating on the forest land for many years. When we visited the dhaba, the owner produced fake revenue documents and claimed it was not built on forest land. However, we got the documents verified in the DRO (district revenue office) and we came to know that the papers were fake,” said a forest department official.
 
 Deepak Nanda, district forest officer, told TOI, “We will carry out more such drives as and when required. We are not going to spare anyone encroaching upon the land in the protected area.” 
 
 Green activists appreciated the move and demanded similar action in Faridabad side too. “There are still many illegal structures that need to be razed. We have reported about one (illegal structure) in Kherki Daula too. Also, it is high time the forest department in Faridabad woke up and took strict action against land mafias. There are many illegal dhabas, go-downs, and porta cabins encroaching upon the forest land in the Aravalis,” said Jitender Bhadana from Save Aravalis, a Faridabad based NGO. 
 
  On May 3, forest officials razed four farmhouses to free 2,000 square yards of forest land in Damdama and removed a godown from a 1,000-square-yard plot in Haiderpur.
 
 
