NEW DELHI: One of the   in Delhi who had been supplying weapons and   to   has been arrested. The accused,  , had a reward of Rs 1 lakh on him.

 The special cell had been tracking Singh (34) since 2014, after his name figured in the interrogation of many weapon carriers. 
 
 The hunt for him intensified after intelligence agencies alerted the Delhi Police and Maharashtra Police, calling him a major source of supply of arms and ammunition to Naxals operating in Gadhchiroli, Maharashtra. He has been found to be allegedly in touch with at least three area commanders, sources said.
 
 Singh started off as a carrier and was lodged in Munger jail after being arrested in 2015. He developed contacts there and began to supply weapons in bulk.
 
 DCP (special cell) Pramod Kushwaha said that Singh procured pistols for Rs 16,000 each and sold them at Rs 32,000. Last year, he supplied 200 pistols to Neeraj Bawana and Hashim Baba gangs, police said.
 
 Police received critical information about Singh and his aides after the interrogation of three smugglers arrested in February. A few weeks ago, a special team led by ACP Govind Sharma was formed to track down the members of Singh’s network.
 
  A hefty reward was announced for any information on him. Teams camped at his hideout in Etah, UP and his hometown Firozabad to procure information on him.
 
 Cops found that Singh would get weapons from Munger, Bihar for distribution. A few days ago, Dhirender was nabbed at ISBT on a tip-off. Two pistols and cartridges were found on him.
 
 “Dhirender said he met a man named Kamal in Munger jail who helped him build his own network. He further led us to Kishan Pal who was arrested from Etah. Pal was arrested four times in the past and Goonda Act had been invoked against him,” DCP Kushwaha added.
 
 Singh’s carriers brought him the weapons via train, which he would supply on demand. He used Whatsapp and other chat platforms to communicate with criminals, police said. His chat logs are being scanned to identify his associates.
 
 
