AHMEDABAD: The chairman and managing director of   (SSNNL) S S Rathore, nicknamed “the highway and canal man of Gujarat”; senior medical oncologist Dr Pankaj Shah, and Zaverilal Mehta, a photojournalist with a Gujarati daily; are the three Gujaratis to figure on the list of Padma awardees, declared by the Union government on the eve of Republic Day. All three have been awarded  .

  Satyanarayansinh Shivsinh Rathore (62), a low profile officer who joined the state administration as an engineer has been given the award in the field of civil service. He is credited with development of the road network of Gujarat including major national and state highways. 
 
  Rathore is a rare officer who joined the Gujarat Service of Engineers to be promoted to additional chief secretary, just before his retirement four years ago. Rathore was appointed CMD of SSNNL, to complete the challenging task of completing the Sardar Sarovar dam, its canal network and PM Narendra Modi’s pet project, the Statue of Unity. 
 
 Rathore, known as a low-profile officer, said, “I am really surprised by this honour. I am thankful to PM   and the Gujarat government, which gave me several opportunities to use my skills for the development of the state. I am thankful to my colleagues in the R&B department and SSNNL. Without them, I am nothing.” 
 
 Dr Shah (73), a pioneer in developing medical oncology in the country, has been feted for his contribution to the field. 
 
 Dr Shah, who retired as director of Gujarat   Research Institute (GCRI), has been working for cancer treatment and de-addiction awareness for the prevention of cancer for 43 years. He is credited with establishing permanent a exhibition on cancer and tobacco de-addiction at the Community Oncology Centre in Ahmedabad. “I am very happy to be honoured by the government. Cancer is a major health concern in the country and I hope that enough resources are allocated for detection of cancer in early stage to save maximum lives,” said Dr Shah. 
 
