NEW DELHI: Two months after  , a west Delhi-based vlogger and  , was hacked to death by the family of the girl he was in love with, police have winded up the probe and prepared a chargesheet. The draft of the   has been sent to the public prosecutor for legal vetting and is likely to be filed in the court in the coming days.

 
  
  
 
 While the girl’s father, mother and maternal uncle will be charged for the crime, a separate report will be filed against the girl’s minor brother in the juvenile justice board. The adult accused are in judicial custody in Tihar Jail.
 
 Sources told TOI that Delhi Police is seeking legal opinion on whether criminal conspiracy (Section 120B of Indian Penal Code) is applicable in the case. At the moment, the accused have been charged with   (302 IPC) and causing hurt and common intention (34 IPC). The legal provisions to be invoked will be suitably changed after the public prosecutor gives his views.
 
 Police claimed on Thursday to have a watertight case against the accused and will seek maximum punishment for the murder of 22-year-old Saxena on February 1 in Raghubeer Nagar. The chargesheet, which is around 500 pages, will be filed in Tis Hazari Courts.
 
 Among the prime witnesses, police have listed the girl who recorded her statement against her family before a magistrate under Section 164 of CrPC. Under this section, the statement — the most crucial evidence in this case — cannot be retracted without it amounting to perjury.
 
 Other witnesses include Saxena’s parents who had taken him to hospital from the crime site, the paan shop owner who witnessed the attack taking place outside his shop and two friends of Saxena who saw him being assaulted. The investigators have established the presence of the accused at the murder spot via their call details records and   and phone footage recorded by onlookers.
 
 CCTV footage recovered from a nearby shop moments before Saxena was murdered showed him in a black pullover and slippers frantically calling someone on his phone after being beaten up. The clip then showed him being attacked with a chopper by the girl’s uncle.
 
 Saxena’s father, Yashpal, was relieved to learn of the chargesheet. Speaking to TOI, Yashpal appealed to the cops to ensure that his son’s killers were punished for their crime. "I have seen cases in which the criminals walk scot-free after some time or the judicial process is so slow that justice is as good as denied,” the father said. “We ask for the death penalty for the culprits, and they should be given their punishment quickly.” 
 
 Investigations revealed that the girl’s family members had not initially carried the murder weapon, a meat chopper, with them, but it had been brought by the girl’s uncle from their flat nearby during the melee. The statement of a neighbour, from whom the parents borrowed a scooter saying that their daughter had met with an accident, has also been recorded as evidence. 
 
 
