BHOPAL: In a gut-wrenching accident, a 50-year-old farmer’s head was severed from his body after a speeding truck hit three persons riding two bikes in Sukhi Sewania and one youth lost life after a car hit a bike in Parwalia area in last 24 hours.

 
 On Thursday evening, an unidentified truck hit three persons riding ahead of it on two bikes on Bhopal-Raisen Road in Bhadbhada village in Sukhi Sewania locality .
 
 A 50-year-old man died on the spot and his nephew’s right foot was crushed under the wheels of the truck. Another biker escaped with minor injuries.
 
 The errant driver fled the spot along with truck. Sukhi Sewania police registered a case against the errant truck driver.
 
 Investigation officer ASI   said man, Kamal Singh, 50, who was a resident of Barjopur in Raisen district, was a farmer. He along with his nephew Aniket was coming to Bhopal. Aniket was riding the bike and Kamal was riding pillion.
 
 When they reached near Bhadbhada village, a speeding truck hit two bikes from behind and fled the spot. Such was the collision that Kamal Singh’s head was severed his body and Aniket’s right foot was crushed under the wheels of truck.
 
 Mahendra Tomar who was riding the other bike sustained minor injuries.
 
 In another incident reported at Sukhi Sewania locality on Friday afternoon a 19-year-old boy lost his life while two of his friends sustained serious injuries after the bike they were travelling, was hit by a speeding Tavera SUV head on.
 
 The deceased has been identified as Avikant Singh, 19, a resident of Salamatpur Raisen, who was heading home on his bike with his friends including Deepak Lodhi, 19 and Pramod Lodhi, 22.
 
 The incident took place when they reached Balampur ghati at around 2 pm. The tavera which was going to Indore has been seized. Pramod is undergoing treatment in critical condition.
 
 In Parwalia, a speeding car, which was trying to overtake a truck, hit three bikeborne youths near Chandukheri village on Bhopal-Mubarakpur Road on Friday morning. A 17-year-old boy, who was riding pillion, died on the spot. The errant car driver escaped from the spot leaving his car.
 
 Police seized his car and registered a case against him.
 
 Parwalia SHO GS Mahobia said the deceased, Kuldeep Nayak, son of Laxminarayan, a resident of Kala Peepal Agaria village in Parwalia, was going to Kalakheri village along with his two relatives Man Singh and   on the bike.
 
 When they reached near Chandukheri village, a speeding Maruti Swift car coming from opposite direction, hit their bike. Kuldeep died on the spot and the other two sustained minor injuries.
 
