BHOPAL: The   is fully prepared to conduct Lok Sabha and assembly polls simultaneously, but it’s for the government to make necessary changes in the law, chief election commissioner   said in Bhopal on Tuesday. 

 Every polling   in the coming assembly election in Madhya Pradesh will have VVPAT machines, he said. Congress demanded linking of Aadhar with voter cards to stop fake voting. “Just before the visit of the CEC, massive irregularities have been unearthed. Nearly 7 lakh voters were found ineligible during recent verification of electoral rolls,” said PCC spokesman Ravi Saxena, adding: “In every assembly constituency, there are about 70,000 to 80,000 fake voters.” 
 
 On the controversy over removal of 6.73 lakh names from the voter list, Rawat said that they are not ‘fake’ voters but absentee, shifted and dead ones. It is an ongoing process to identify such voters, he said, adding that during summary revision in January this year, 3.83 lakh voters were removed. Now, these 6.73 new names will also be removed. Congress demanded physical verification of every address where more than 25 voters claim to be living.
 
 CPI demanded that bureaucrats and government employees inclined to RSS be identified and kept off poll duty. Rawat did not say anything beyond: “We will look into the complaint.”
 
 When local officials raised the problems faced due to snags in ERO Net software that is used to prepare voters’ lists, Rawat said technical problems will be rectified within this month. Voter lists will be made more transparent and correct before the assembly elections, he assured. 
 
 Deputy election commissioner, Sandeep Saxena, said that the new version of ERO Net software would be launched on April 19. Upon the suggestion of the chief electoral officer, CEC gave his nod for a fresh summary revision of the voters’ list in August and September this year. 
 
 Asked why bureaucrats who are removed by the ECI are reinstated by state governments, Rawat said, “ECI and government work under the ambit of the law. ECI does what it feels is required”.
 
 
