Indian summers are usually a clarion call to stay hydrated, as the heat can suck you dry. And with the mercury rising pretty fast these days,   is witnessing a sharp increase in the demand for fruit juices. And on offer, apart from traditional thirst quenchers like nimbu paani and coconut water, are extracts of exotic fruits and more. We went around town to explore the latter variety. Here’s what we discovered in and around   area, Dak Bungalow Road, South Gandhi Maidan and Anisabad.

 Green apple juice
 A delicious and soothing mix of green apple & lemon juice, celery, pepper and honey, this drink has a high fibre content that helps clean your system and boost metabolism. Its high iron content is apparent from its dark, almost black, tint. What’s more, the minerals and antioxidants in the drink boost the immune system and help the body easily beat the heat. It tastes the best when chilled.
 
 Blueberry blossom
 This sweetened organic drink has become a major hit among Patnites in summer. And it’s truly healthy, as blueberry juice is known to control heart diseases, lower blood pressure and keep the body hydrated. And all you need for a glass of the juice is two cups of blueberries, some black grapes, lime juice and mint leaves. Put these in a blender, mix well and serve in a glass, garnished with mint leaves.
 
 Kiwi juice
 Kiwis are great sources of antioxidants and are rich in vitamins. The fruit not only counters ageing and improves skin health, but also aids in digestion. So obviously, consuming kiwi juice in summer does all that good to your body while restoring its electrolyte balance. To prepare a glass, blend the pulp of two kiwis with sugar, salt and lime, add a creamy layer and relish the exotic taste.
 
  mojito
 A refreshing mix of peach juice, lime, mint, sugar and ice cubes, peach mojito is a treasure trove of minerals such as calcium, iron and potassium along with fibre. Loved around the world, this fragrant combination of ripe peaches and refreshing mint serves as a healthy summer cooler.
 
 Pineapple Hawaiian punch
 It’s a refreshing and yummy drink, which is prepared by boiling sugar, blackberries and lime in water and mixing the cooled syrup with pineapple pulp and orange juice. It’s then chilled for an hour and served in a cup made from a carved-out pineapple. It has been introduced recently in Patna and is fast gaining popularity.
 
