PUNE: Determined to crack down on drunk drivers on the  , the Pune   took action against as many as 1,144 motorists for driving under the influence of alcohol on the intervening night of December 31 and January 1.

 Police had appealed to all the motorists to not drink and drive, and had warned them of strict action if they were caught. However, the appeal did not seem to have much of an impact, with the number of motorists caught on the New Year’s Eve nearly doubling when compared to the past few years. In 2016, 615 drunk drivers were prosecuted. The higher figure this year can also be attributed to a stronger police presence on the city roads.
 
 
  
 
 Apart from the 1,144 caught on the last night of the year, the cops also took action against 600 motorists on December 29 and 30, 2017.
 
 Ashok Morale, the deputy commissioner of police (traffic), told   on Monday, “The traffic police, with the help of local police stations, conducted   checks at 56 points. Breath analyser tests were conducted on a large number of motorists. The 1,144 motorists caught driving in an inebriated state were prosecuted under Section 185 of the Motor Vehicles Act. We will soon file cases against them in a magisterial court.” Morale added, “We will submit a proposal to the Regional Transport Office, Pune, to revoke the driving licence of the motorists as soon as possible.”
 
 He said, barring few minor disputes — drunk drivers arguing with the police personnel — there was no law and order problem reported on the New Year’s Eve.
 
 Giving the details on other traffic violations, he said, “Police have taken action against 923 motorists for wrong-side driving. Action was also taken against 2,839 motorists for triple-riding, riding in cars having tinted glasses, parking in no parking zones, riding without a helmet, double-parking, honking, under-age persons caught driving, zebra crossing violations etc.”
 
 Traffic police used the services of 84 officers and 739 policemen for taking action against motorists, he added.
 
 
  
 
