Trichy: Construction work on the city’s first science park for children in Thennur is expected to be completed within a week and will be open for public immediately. The edutainment project, taken up by the Trichy Corporation in 2016 after a year-long delay was funded under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) at a total cost of Rs 2.14 crore.

 Having come under severe criticism by the public for not providing proper entertainment destinations to spend time in leisure, the Trichy Corporation for the past two years has been boosting recreational avenues in the city that a population of nearly 10 lakh. In 2015-16 fiscal, the civic body mooted a plan to establish a science park facility for children to serve as an infotainment tool in hosting science exhibitions periodically. The science park on 2.62 acres at Thennur locality near Ukkira Kaliamman temple was once utilised as a parking lot for vehicles attending political meetings in nearby Uzhavar Sandhai ground. Unlike other parks, the Thennur park will be a theme-based model facility to induce curiosity of children in learning basic science, the corporation said.
 
 Though work for the state-of-the-art recreational avenue was expected to be completed in June 2017, the project saw periodical upgrade including landscaping and illumination. Official sources said that the facility shall have a hall of science complex established on more than 2,000 sq ft to display exhibits during science exhibitions, a maze garden, life science park with replicas of dinosaurs. An energy park conveying the need to harness alternate energy resources for generating electricity, amphitheatre and pedestrian track for walkers dotted with water fountains will also be part of it.
 
 “Almost 90% of the civil works have been completed. Replicas of dinosaurs manufactured in Chennai have reached the park. Painting and completion of pavement works are pending,” said an official with the civic body.
 
 Outdoor scientific equipment including a massive pendulum, revolving periscope and interactive world map were housed in the park at an estimated cost of Rs 30 lakh. “Work would complete within a week, post which the facility may be opened for public,” the official added. Pedestrian pathway for a length of 550m and lawn for 9,500 sq ft have been established in the park while 16m height high-mast lamp with five LED lamps and 12 numbers of ornamental lamps have been equipped to illuminate the fountain.
 
 
