TRICHY: Bharathidasan University has restored the affiliation of the physical education department of National College   which was severed a couple of years ago following strong opposition from the Tamil Nadu physical education and sports university (TNPESU). 

 While no recognition from BDU meant that students passing out of the college would not get degrees, the standoff has now been resolved by the university administration. The issue has been haunting NCT for the past three years as the BDU would disaffiliate the physical education department at the end of the academic year and the college would get it back after organising a series of protests. 
 
 Though TNPESU has to be approached for affiliation of courses on physical education it approved only education courses. Hence, it refused to affiliate the degree and postgraduate courses offered by NCT. The college had received affiliation from the BDU to run UG and PG courses when it began the physical education department in 2003 and later also obtained approval to give PhDs. 
 
 A dispute emerged in 2008 after the formation of Tamil Nadu physical education and sports university (TNPESU) in the state. It was then made mandatory that all physical education courses must get affiliation only from TNPESU. The BDU passed a resolution in the syndicate to not entertain any proposal for affiliation in terms of physical education in 2008. However, the same resolution was suppressed by K Meena, vice-chancellor of BDU in 2012 and affiliation approved for five colleges in Trichy region including that of physical education department in   (NCT).
 
 Though it helped NCT to go ahead with enrolling students for its self-financing course, trouble came in the form of strong exception from TNPESU in 2014 over other universities giving affiliation to sports-related courses. This prompted the BDU to withdraw approval saying affiliation shall be permitted for 2015-16 academic year after which TNPESU should be approached for affiliation by the college. But the fact that TNPESU refused to give affiliation to degree courses went against it. The university has now decided to give affiliation thus coming as a great relief to NCT.
 
 “The former vice-chancellor   refused to understand the issue and continued to refuse affiliation to the course without bothering about the future of the students enrolled in the course,” said physical education faculty member at NCT, D  . “We are pleased that the present university administration has decided to extended an olive branch,” he said. 
 
 
