NEW DELHI:   commuters on   had a harrowing time on Tuesday after a technical   in the electrical system paralysed operations on the   corridor during the evening peak hours.

 The problem started at 7.30pm at Jahangirpuri station due to a technical snag in the electrical overhead equipment (OHE) on the line towards Samaypur Badli. As a result, single-line operations had to be carried out on the Down line between Vishwavidyalaya and   stations. 
 
 This resulted in bunching of trains, leading to massive delays throughout the nearly 50km-long corridor. Thousands of passengers got stranded inside trains or at stations as trains ran late by 30 minutes on average. As the trains started coming packed, the line of commuters waiting at stations continued to grow. “Many people tried to push and shove their way inside but it was so packed that most couldn’t,” said a commuter.
 
 Although a Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) spokesperson claimed that the trains were running normal from Vishwavidyalaya to HUDA City Centre during this period, several commuters said trains were running extremely slow on the entire corridor, with trains intermittently stopping at all stations for long durations and even between stations.
 
 “I boarded a train from Guru Dronacharya station in Gurgaon at 6.20pm and the train ran very slowly. It took 40 minutes to reach Chhatarpur, a distance usually covered in 15 minutes. The train kept stopping for long durations throughout this period,” said Nandita Mukherjee, a commuter. 
 
 “At Chhatarpur, the train just didn’t budge for nearly half an hour. It then started but stopped inside a tunnel after some time. As people were getting restless inside the overcrowded train, someone pressed the emergency button to talk to the driver. It is then that we got to know about the snag,” she added. “I finally got down at Hauz Khas after one and a half hours, a journey that usually takes 23 minutes.” 
 
 Rohit Sharma, another commuter, had a more tortuous journey as he travelled from HUDA City Centre to Jahangirpuri. “Though I have faced metro snags earlier, Tuesday’s was the worst,” Sharma said. “The train was stopping at each station for 5-10 minutes and, at Arjangarh, it halted for nearly half an hour.” Sharma, who boarded the train at Huda City Cenre around 7.30pm, reached Jahangirpuri at 9.40. “Usually, it takes about one hour 20 minutes.” 
 
 The DMRC spokesperson claimed that the snag was rectified at 8.37pm and normal services were soon restored on the affected section. Commuters, however, said trains were not running normally till 10pm.
 
 
