Kanyakumari: The Coast Guard has rescued 12 fishermen on a mechanised fishing boat that was stranded on a rock in the Arabian Sea off Karnataka coast.

 S Ramesh, 40, of Kurumpanai in Kanyakumari district and 11 others ventured into the sea on his boat -- Natha Fathima -- from Beippur in Kerala on February 28. They were fishing in the Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast when they got an alert from the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) about high speed winds triggered by a low pressure area in the Indian Ocean. Following the alert, Natha Fathima started to move towards the coast.
 
 The boat was about 13 nautical miles off Munneswaram near Garwar in Karnataka when it accidentally drove over a rock and got stuck on Tuesday. Efforts to take the boat back to the sea went in vain. On Wednesday morning, the fishermen contacted a fishing boat that was close by and sought help.
 
 The boat tried to pull Natha Fathima off the rock but the rough sea made it impossible. The stranded fishermen then got in touch with the South Asian Fishermen Fraternity (SAFF) who alerted the Coast Guard (CG), the Marine Rescue Coordination Centre, the Kanyakumari district administration and the fisheries department at Chennai.
 
 “Meanwhile, the boat slid off the rock to the sea. But its engine fan got damaged and could not be repaired. Coast Guard personnel contacted us and asked for requirements of those on the boat. All of them needed food. Three of them needed medical attention since they were injured when a stove burst. A CG ship reached the fishermen with the supplies,” general secretary of SAFF, A Churchil said.
 
 Churchil told TOI that the Coast Guard ship could not tow the boat to the shore. The Coast Guard contacted the fishermen in a mechanised boat -- Elroi -- that was close by and asked them to tow Natha Fathima. Being a wooden boat, Elroi could not tow Natha Fathima that was made of steel and was much heavier. The Coast Guard ship Aburbha-249 then went to the stranded boat’s rescue on Wednesday night. On Thursday morning, the ship towed Natha Fathima to near the entrance of Malpe harbour in Karnataka. The boat was then towed to the harbour by another fishing boat.
 
 Eight of the fishermen on the boat hailed from Kanyakumari in Tamil Nadu while the rest were from West Bengal. Besides Ramesh, the rescued fishermen have been identified as A Joy, J Samson, W Ajison, A Lijin, P Dickson, I Thatheyus and S Aijith from Kanyakumari and Sriram, Swaraj, Oujith and Haridas from West Bengal.
 
 
