Bhopal: Delay in levelling work and increasing height of platform 6 at   railway station is creating difficulty for passengers boarding their trains. While railway officials claim the pace of renovation work is slow, the contractor alleges lack of support from railways. 

 A railway official said, "In the past two months, only 20% of the work has been completed. Due to delay in work, passengers have to face a tough time while boarding their trains as parts of the platform has been dug up. It is turning out to be risky. Usually passengers have tendency to board train in a hurry after the train starts chugging out of the platform."
 
 Om  , supervisor of the company carrying out the construction claimed: "The delay is due to complex structure of the platform and lack of proper support from railways. Due to rush at the platform, the pace of work gets slow. We have completed 100-meter patch and are still to complete the work of rest of the 420 meters." 
 
 "We had asked for blockade at the platform so that we could complete our work quickly, and officials had promised the same by May 11. As soon as the platform will get vacated, we will be able to increase the pace of work. Presently, there are 21 labourers working on the platform. Every day about nine trains stops at the platform. Every time a train takes a halt, we have to slow down our work or take a break so that passengers can alight or board from the train," Yadav said.
 
 Manoj Sharma, a passenger of   express (19712) said, "Due to summer season, I normally prefer to stand on the platform and get in when the train is all set to move. But, seeing the condition of the platform, it is better to stay inside as it is very difficult to climb in the coach in a hurry." 
 
 Rajeev Kulkarni, another passenger said, "Due to the ongoing construction work, I had to struggle to take my luggage inside the train. If we would have come at the last minute, we could have missed the train."
 
 Bhopal railway division PRO IA Siddiqui said, "We haven't received application for blockade. If the contractor applies for it, we'll provide him as per requirement."
 
 
