NEW DELHI: Warding off growing pressure for immediate reiteration of Uttarakhand chief justice K M Joseph’s name for appointment as an SC judge, the Supreme Court’s five-member collegium, headed by CJI Dipak Misra, on Wednesday “unanimously” deferred restating its choice that was sent back by the Centre for reconsideration. “There was no question of anyone agreeing or disagreeing on any particular name as no names were discusssed,” said a senior source. 

 
 CJI Misra and Justices J Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan B Lokur and Kurian   met in the SC for 15 minutes to discuss the agenda which read — “to consider the case of  , CJ Uttarakahand HC (parent HC: Kerala), pursuant to letters dated April 26 & 30, 2018 received from Ministry of Law and Justice; and also to consider the names of judges from Calcutta, Rajasthan and Telangana & Andhra Pradesh HCs for elevation as judges of the SC, in view of the concept of fair representation”.
 
 Since the agenda of the collegium meeting could be circulated among members of the collegium only late Tuesday night, the judges after a “pleasant” 15-minute meeting over tea “unanimously” agreed that the issues narrated in the agenda required “deeper deliberation”. Sources said the meeting did not discuss the issue of Justice K M Joseph at all, focusing instead on the proposals for appointment of judges, the recommendations for whom have been pending with the government, and also to hold dialogue with the executive for expediting the process. 
 
 The SC website used a single word, “Deferred”, to describe the outcome of the much-awaited meeting of the collegium: the first since the Centre last month segregated its recommendations for the appointment of senior advocate Indu Malhotra to the apex court and for elevation of the Uttarakhand Chief Justice. The Centre cleared Mahotra but sent back Justice K M Joseph’s case to the collegium for reconsideration citing three issues - lack of ‘seniority’, ‘Kerala HC already having adequate representation in SC’ and ‘non-appointment of judges belonging to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities’. 
 
 Malhotra has since taken oath as SC judge. Significantly, judiciary watchers noted with interest the focus on “the concept of fair representation” in the agenda of the collegium. The run-up to the meeting of the collegium saw a group of senior advocates, activist lawyers, and retired judges, including a former CJI, building up pressure for immediate reiteration of the recommendation for Justice K M Joseph. 
 
 Many backers of the Uttarakhand Chief Justice have alleged that he is being penalised for his verdict striking down the dismissal of the   government in the state last year and are keen on his early elevation since the Centre will have no choice but to acquiesce to any reiteration by the collegium. In fact, a senior advocate had even filed a petition seeking stay on the oath of Justice Malhotra till Justice Joseph’s name was reiterated. The CJI-led bench had declined the prayer terming it as “unheard of ”. 
 
 The SC has been under unusual public glare since January 12 when four members of the collegium held a press conference: a first to protest against allocation of allegedly important cases to junior judges at their expense. Though Justice Chelameswar did not attend court on Wednesday, he made it to the meeting that took place after the benches finished their judicial work at 4pm. 
 
 With the   facing a large number of vacancies, making it difficult for the CJI to constitute adequate number of benches to deal with over 50,000 pending cases, the agenda circulated among the judges appeared to recognise the need for expeditious filling up of seven vacancies in the SC, which would with the retirement of   on Friday increase to eight, by mentioning about fair representation to HCs which have not a single or less than adequate representation in the apex court at present. 
 
 SC sources said the collegium members “simply decided to defer deliberations on the case relating to Justice Joseph and adequate representation to three HCs. The top five SC judges, including CJI, is likely to meet next week to take up both the issues”
 
