NAGPUR: Poets were in their element as they used various forms of poetry that had humour, sarcasm and a telling comment on the situation people face in their daily life, de-stressing the audience at   on Thursday evening. 

 Poets took a dig at topics ranging from politics, Bollywood songs, love life, friendship, patriotism, parodies, satires to tussles between married couples at a   organized by Kala Sangh and Matrubhoomi Pratishthan. 
 
 If watched minutely, conversation between vegetable vendors and consumers can become a source of inspiration to write. Poet   narrated one such incident. “When enquired about the rate of vegetables at a shop, the vendor’s son first looked at the customer. Then asked him whether he wanted to know the real rate or the one which his father tells,” Malokar said, as the audience burst into a  .
 
 Manish Bajpayee won the hearts as he could not stop laughing at his jokes. When he said that “If nobody laughs, the organizers would surely laugh” had the people in splits. He targeted politics and Bollywood, saying that both cannot work without one another. They show to people dreams most of which never realize. 
 
 The ‘relationship’ between politics and Bollywood is very old. And both make it sure that the ‘relationship’ is not only maintained but strengthened, he said.
 
 Pramod Shukla too tickled the funny bone with his poems, mocking the young and old generations alike for getting hooked to social media. On a serious note, he said, “We have forgotten to smile and laugh. We also have forgotten to teach our children the true meaning of happiness. Hence we need to start appreciating every moment of life and find laughter in our existence.”
 
 Laughter is the only remedy in today’s time when it comes to dealing with stress and discomfort, said  , treasurer of Kala Sangh. People face various problems in life. But they tend to focus on unhappiness rather than happiness. This event focused on bringing joy to people even for a few moment. Amazing amateur poets, who have made it their mission to spread happiness by using comedy as a tool, used the opportunity well, Dhoke added.
 
 
