CHANDIGARH: In a major initiative by the Haryana urban local bodies department, the municipal commissioner of   on Monday cancelled the change of land use (CLU) process of five farm houses on   in Faridabad.

 Mohammad Shayin, the Faridabad municipal commissioner withdrew letters of intent (LOI) on Monday while directing action against the officers who were allegedly involved in helping the owners of these farm houses.
 
 The farm houses, whose permissions have been withdrawn, are Yogi Farms, Khalsa Farms, Egan Garden, Jannat Valley and  .
 
 The decision to withdraw LOIs came a day after the urban local bodies department suspended Satish Parashar, the senior town planner of Faridabad MC. Parashar was one of the three members of the committee that had given permission to these farm houses.
 
 Sources in the MC alleged that money had exchanged hands in the issuance of the LOIs to the owners of these farm houses. The LOIs were issued on the recommendations of a three-member committee in 2016 and 2017.
 
 Shayin, however, said the LOIs had been withdrawn as the owners or managements of the farm houses had failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the town and country planning department.
 
 According to information, in the orders issued for the withdrawal of the LOIs, Shayin categorically mentioned the owners had failed to comply with the terms and conditions related to obtaining no-objection certificates as well as environment clearances. They also had not cleared the arrears of conversion charges within the stipulated period.
 
 A couple of the farm houses had not taken the necessary clearances from the forest department and the National Highway Authority of India.
 
 The farm houses had been issued show-cause notices in February to explain the shortcomings and the owners of these farm house had submitted their replies by first week of this month.
 
 Notably, this issue was first raised by Congress MLA Lalit Nagar in the Haryana assembly, this had embarrassed CM  . The issue took a significant turn on Saturday when Faridabad MP and Union minister for state   took up the matter with Khattar and recommended suspension of the   officials, who were allegedly involved in the entire issue.
 
 
