In the latest episode of   Kya Kehlata Hai, Kabeer sees the policemen surrounding Naira's car and hides his face behind the hood and walks away but a policeman catches him. Naira comes and holds him by his collar but Kabeer manages to escape. Kartik asks Naira to calm down.

 
 Kirti feels very emotional and sad after losing the baby. Naksh apologises to her for not taking care of the baby and wishes that Naira did not take her to the academy.
 
 Manish thinks of a way to protect the family. Priyanka warns Naira about the stalker's behaviour and asks her to take caution. Naira decides to go home for a while.
 
 Kirti refuses to have food while Naitik tries to change her mind and asks her to play a video game with her. Naira arrives with Kartik but Naksh asks them go away. Naira apologises and asks him not to misunderstand her.
 
 Kartik supports Naira and asks Naksh to stop behaving arrogantly. Kirti comes and stops the argument, hugging Naira and says she doesn't blame anyone. Naira starts crying. As Naksh walks away, Kirti asks Naira and Kartik to give him some time and asks them about the stalker.
 
 Kartik tells her about the plan to trap the stalker. Kabeer sees a video on his phone from Naira, asking him to participate in a dance contest that would win him a trip to Paris with her. He gets excited and feels that the contest would bring him closer to Naira.
 
 Shubham chats with Kabeer through a video call when he spots the cut out with Naira's face on it. Kabeer brushes him away. The next morning, Naira and Kartik arrange for a fake contest and open the registrations at the house. They decide to send the kids away fearing their security and hope that the stalker would fall into their trap.
 
 Shubham comes along with Kabeer and asks him to participate in the contest. Kartik also supports him. Kabeer smiles and thinks about Naira. Shubham takes him to a side and asks him to give him drugs. He takes them and walks out of the house but Manish sees him and gets suspicious.
 
