   A part of the ceiling plaster at ward no. 14 of the   ( ) fell on Saturday, triggering panic and concern. 

 Although no one was reported injured in the incident, it was a close shave for nurses serving in the ward as they are generally present at the spot where the plaster fell.
 
 The nurse in charge the staff said she had written to the hospital administration about the poor condition of the plaster a year-and-half ago but no action was taken.
 
 The corner of ward 14 in the surgery building is used as a store room. Owing to a leakage in the bathroom of the trauma care unit above, the ceiling near the store room was soiled and on the verge of collapsing. 
 
 The in-charge staff nurse said that she had written to the administration several times about the leakage but no action has been taken.
 
 The GMCH has several such spots where the ceiling or walls are on the verge of collapse due to leakages. Medical superintendent   told TOI he took rounds of the wards and identified such spots on Friday. 
 
 "We have informed our building and construction (BNC) department and given them written complaints about the leakages, asking them to fix the problem but no action is being taken," he said, adding that lack of funds is the main reason for leakages not being repaired.
 
 Incidentally, assistant engineer of the public works department, K Syed, who looks after the building and construction needs of the GMCH, is on leave. When reached for a comment on Saturday's incident, his deputy   said he did not have any information about it. "I have not been told about the plaster collapse," he said. Asked why the building and construction department has failed to pay heed to the repeated complaints by the medical superintendent, Ahmed said the annual maintenance contract of the hospital, which was supposed to be approved six months ago, has not been approved yet by the superintending engineer. "This is the reason reason why repair works have not been undertaken at the hospital."
 
 Ahmed said his department will undertake an inspection to avert a repeat of Saturday's incident. 
 
 
