Chennai: Tamil Nadu’s power demand hit a new high on Friday evening. The   increased to 15,440MW against the earlier high of 15,335MW on April 26, 2016. While the demand has been increasing since April 1, the average demand has been above 14,500MW.

 Tangedco sources said the discom was able to meet the demand through its own thermal units as well as from central thermal and nuclear units. With the   increasing with each passing day, solar power generation also increased. On Friday, on an average, 500MW of solar power was evacuated, while the maximum generation at midday touched 1,485MW. Only a few states in the country have demand above 15,000MW and this includes Maharashtra, Gujarat and UP. Previously Andhra Pradesh’s demand used to touch 15,000MW, but after it was divided into two states, the demand is less than 10,000MW.
 
 “The demand hit a new high around 7.05pm on Friday and it was at that level for a few minutes after which the demand came down. For Tamil Nadu it is after two years we have had a new high power demand,” said a senior Tangedco official. The demand increased on Friday as the temperature touched 38 to 39 degrees Celsius.
 
 “Many of the residents in Chennai and other urban areas in North Tamil Nadu used air conditioners due to which the demand increased. In Chennai alone the demand last night was 3,256MW. Along with air conditioners, almost all residents in the city and other towns watched IPL match till midnight. All these put together, the demand increased,” said the official.
 
 From Tangedco’s thermal units alone, the supply was to the extent of 4,200MW out of the total capacity of 4,320MW. “We were able to meet the demand as we purchased power from private companies within Tamil Nadu as well as from other states, thanks to the MoUs signed a few years ago. From this source alone, the supply was around 3,000MW,” said the official.
 
 The central thermal and nuclear units supplied power to the extent of 5,400MW. “Except unit 2 of Kudankulam, we were able to get power from the central units mostly to the maximum capacity. Unit 1 of Kudankulam generated around 940MW out of its capacity of 1,000MW,” said the official.
 
 Wind power generation was poor, though in the previous few days it was around 1,500MW during the evenings. “Once the wind season starts, we will be able to meet the demand even without purchasing power from private companies. During the season, we will be evaucating solar power during daytime and wind in the evening,” said the official. With the continuous supply of power by Tangedco, the   collection is likely to increase. 
 
 
