PUNE: The driver of an   was arrested on Thursday, a day after the death of a 21-year-old labourer — sleeping between two drainage pipes at Amanora Township in Sadesatranali — because of his negligence.

 The Hadapsar police identified the deceased as Swapnil Rajkumar Mundhe (21) from Unnatinagar in Hadapsar. The driver, Tofan Maguni Nahak (29), from Kharadi was arrested on the charges of causing the victim’s death due to negligence of the Indian Penal Code. He was later released on bail.
 
  
 Sub-inspector Vijay Zanjad of the Hadapsar police said, “The work of laying underground drainage line at the township was in progress when the driver used the machine to push the pipes behind. He did not notice Mundhe sleeping. The victim suffered multiple injuries after he got squeezed between the pipes and died.”
 
 He said, “Investigations revealed that there were 12 cement pipes, each weighing one tonne, on the parking premises. The driver’s involvement in the crime came to light after the analysis of the CCTV cameras installed at Amanora Township. We suo motu registered an FIR against him.”
 
 The victim, Mundhe, had consumed liquor with his labourer friends on Tuesday night. He then slept between the pipes.
 
 “Mundhe was asked to wake up in the morning but he did not. The driver pressed the machine into service and started pushing the pipes behind and his acts caused the   between 9.47am and 9.55am on Wednesday. Investigations also revealed that the deceased was not working with the private contractor appointed by the Amanora Township for laying the underground drainage line,” sub-inspector Zanjad said.
 
 The Sassoon General Hospital certified that the victim died because of multiple injuries and preserved his viscera for seeking expert opinion.
 
 The arrested driver told the police that he was unaware that his acts had caused the labourer’s death even after he had finished the work of arranging the pipes. He came to know that he was responsible for the incident after he was shown the CCTV footage.
 
 Amanora Township’s vice-president Sunil Tarte told TOI, “We contacted the police after our supervisor found the body of the labourer between the two pipes. We did not know if he was dead or alive. There was no   machine at the spot. The machine driver was called to the spot on a request made by the police and the pipes were pushed aside for removing the man found dead. I have asked the contractor to give compensation and job to a family member of the victim.”
 
 
