Hyderabad: The Telangana government had an apt gift for women on International Women's Day this year. Fulfilling the promise made on the concluding day of the ‘Global Entrepreneurship Summit’ held in Hyderabad in November last year, the state government on Thursday launched the first-of-its-kind dedicated incubator for women in India — We-Hub — in the city.

 We-Hub was launched by Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao along with India’s missile woman Tessy Thomas and Kalaari Capital managing director Vani Kola in the presence of women entrepreneurs in the city. We-Hub will be temporarily housed at the office of T-SAT at the Dr BR Ambedkar Open University campus and once the second phase of T-Hub is ready by this year-end, it will be shifted there. Announcing the launch of the incubator, KTR said the state government has allocated a fund of Rs 15 crore for the incubator. “We-Hub will provide women access to capital, mentorship and an enabling environment that will help them succeed despite all the challenges and barriers they have to face. This incubator is not only for tech entrepreneurs but will support all kind of innovations,” he said. Along with leveraging the startup ecosystem in the city, We-Hub will also forge partnerships with around 35 co-working spaces and incubators in the city, he said. He also pointed out that to encourage startups at We-Hub, the Telangana government will even procure a certain percentage of goods and services from them. Industries department principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan pointed out that applications for women-led startups to gain entry into We-Hub will open on Friday. We-Hub plans to house 100 startups initially and will handhold them to become successful. “We expect that in the first two moths we will be onboarding the first batch of startups at We-Hub,” he added. The Telangana government also inked MoUs with organisations and industry bodies such as CII Indian Women Network (IWN), UNDP, IIM-Bangalore and Salesforce, among others, to support We-Hub in its endeavours.
 
 
