KOLKATA: Lights on the primary  , taxiways and parking bays at the   will have uninterrupted power supply from Thursday midnight.

 The move will ensure they do not fail during critical flight operations in low visibility conditions.
 
 The Kolkata airport will now switch on the CAT III-B instrument landing system (ILS) that will allow flights to operate till the visibility drops below 50 metres.
 
 The powerful runway approach lights and those along the central line on the runway, taxiways and parking bays are crucial for pilots to steer planes safely in virtually no-visibility conditions. As much as 150kW electricity will be routed through the UPS system from CESC to power these lights.
 
 Should the CESC power supply fail for some reason, diesel generators have been installed to provide 24×7 backup.   general manager  , who manages the air traffic at the Kolkata facility, said, “If both power supplies fail in an extreme situation, the UPS will be able to power the lights for 30 minutes. After that operations will have to be suspended till power supply is restored.”
 
 Metal gates have been installed at the vehicle service lanes in the apron area to prevent passenger buses, refuelling trucks, catering vans, luggage trolleys and security vehicles coming in the way of aircraft. 
 
 This, airport authorities say, will prevent any mishap when flights operate under low-visibility conditions. These gates will be shut when there is aircraft movement under the CAT III-B ILS.
 
 
  Kolkata airport director   said, “We are ready for flight operations using the CAT III-B ILS. Nearly all the planes that operate to and from Kolkata are equipped with suitable systems and pilots that fly them have authorisation to operate in low visibility. Now, except on rare days when visibility may plunge below 50m, there will be no disruption in flight operations due to thick fog or blinding rain.”
 
 While the upgradation of the ILS at Kolkata airport from CAT I to CAT II around 2010 had drastically improved the reliability of flights in winter, the latest upgrade will almost eliminate the problem.
 
 Till now, on the five to six days the fog did cause disruption, around 20 flights would get affected each day, leading to cumulative disruption of 100-120 flights in a season.
 
 G C Debnath, who heads the met office at the airport, said major disruptions on five-six foggy days each winter, particularly in December and January, would no longer be an issue. “Even if visibility drops below 50m on an odd day, it will be for a short duration,” he said. 
  
 
