HYDERABAD :   have recorded the highest number of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act (PITA) cases among all three commissionerate last year. According to data, Rachakonda police registered 82 cases under  , while   recorded 78 cases followed by Hyderabad with 60 cases.

 "In a span of 20 days in 2018, under   we have already recorded over 6 cases where we have arrested 15 accused involved in human trafficking," said  , inspector, Special Operation Team, Rachakonda.
  
  "Many cases under Rachakonda Commissionerate have been registered because, we have taken up special drives to crack down on human trafficking," he added.
 
 Police have also observed a rise in Telugu junior artists getting involved in flesh trade in 2017, after the victims fail to get roles in movies and TV shows.
 
 "Shockingly last year, we rescued 50 junior artists who worked in Telugu daily soaps and small roles in   movies under PITA. When they fail get work in the industry, they indulge in flesh trade," said Naveen.
 
 Last year, police conducted over 100 such raids and decoy operation. Most local brothels in the outskirts of the city were also closed by police. Almost 40 brothels were shut by the end of 2017, the inspector said.
 
 "We have raided several apartments and lodges and also shut down brothels. Nearly eight lodges were closed. What we have understand is that, human trafficking menace is completely based on the demand and supply, we are trying to control the demand so that supply can be eradicated," said  , commissioner of police, Rachakonda.
 
 Police have also observed a low conviction rate in human trafficking cases. The city recorded zero conviction in 2016, while in 2017 nearly 70 per cent of the cases are pending in court, said police.
 
 "The conviction rate is very low. The main reason is that most victims do not turn up in court. In human trafficking, victims are also considered witnesses; however, most victims are not from the city. So once they go back to their native city, they don't turn up. This way, offenders get acquitted due to lack of evidence," said inspector Naveen.
 
 
