SAMANA (PATIALA):   (SAD) president   on Sunday said   chief minister Amarinder Singh had not only betrayed people of the state but also the constituents of his home district Patiala by failing to even visit these once in the last one year.

 Addressing a ‘Pol Khol’ rally, the SAD president said the huge gathering in the home district of the chief minister was proof of the intense anger of the people against the   government which had reneged on each and every promise made to them, be it farm loan waiver, jobs to youth or increasing social benefits.
 
 Badal said the Congress government had stopped disbursal of old age pension and Shagun scheme, besides closing down 800 primary schools as well as  . “It has stopped the CM Teerath Yatra scheme. It has stopped disbursing medical insurance to farmers. Even scholarship is not being given to scheduled caste children.” 
 
 The SAD president said the chief minister should also do an aerial round of villages in the state just like his recent round when he had “discovered” illegal mining which was going on since one year. “You will hear the wailing of widows who are grieving the suicides of their husbands after you failed to waive off their loans.” He also said the CM should ensure justice for the mining officer who had been beaten up in a Patiala police station for stopping Ghanaur MLA Madanlal Jalalpur from indulging in illegal mining.
 
 Badal also told officers not to register false cases against the people as had been done by the Bathinda inspector general of police recently. He said atrocities against people as well as booth rigging witnessed during the corporation elections in Patiala would cost the CM’s wife and former union minister Preneet Kaur dearly in the forthcoming parliamentary elections. 
 
 Speaking on the occasion former minister Bikram Singh Majithia condemned the cowardly attack on his convoy by 10-15 Congress miscreants while he was coming to attend the Pol Khol rally. “I will continue to raise the voice of the people. They can shoot us but they cannot prevent us from coming to the aid of the people”, he asserted.
 
 Others who spoke on the occasion included former minister Surjit Singh Rakhra, Bibi Jagir Kaur, Bibi Harpreet Mukhmailpur, Harjit Singh Grewal, Harinder Chandumajra, Vishnu Sharma, Kabir Das and Harpal Juneja.
 
 
