KOCHI: Police say that they receive quite a few complaints from elderly people after their children or close relatives refuse to take care of them. “In Perumbavoor, we receive a minimum five complaints each month,” said CI Baiju Poulose.

 “We usually summon the children to the station and warn of stringent action that will be initiated if they refuse to look after aged parents. Then they agree to take care of their parents,” he said.
 
 Last month, Perumbavoor police received a complaint from an 85-year-old man, who was denied personal freedom and proper medical care by his eight sons. The man was living with his youngest son, a policeman.
 
 Police summoned all his sons to the station and tried to ensure justice for the old man, but nobody was willing to take him back though all of them were doing good financially. The reason they gave was all too common: We can’t take him home as our wives would not like it and that would be the beginning of another headache.
 
 The police officer, who was hearing their side of the story, lost his patience. He asked: “Are you not ashamed to say that you won’t look after your aged father.” They did not give a reply. Later, he directed each son to set aside a sum of Rs 3,000/month so that their father can appoint a home nurse and use the remaining amount to meet medical expenses.
 
 Then, he asked a civil police officer to collect an affidavit from each son promising that they would give the said amount to their father. Since it was time for Friday prayer, the sons replied that they would give the affidavits after prayers. When the CPO insisted on writing down the same within minutes, one of the sons pointed at his nameplate and read out his name, assuming that he belonged to another religion. “Today is Friday. How will you know the importance of Friday prayers?” he asked. The CPO, who in fact was a Muslim, could not supress his anger. “You refuse to care for your old man and in the same breath you talk of about the dignity of performing Friday prayers? Aren’t you guys ashamed,” he asked. The sons, signed the affidavit without an argument.
 
