FEROZEPUR/ABOHAR: Punjab government’s notification to transfer 44 villages of Guru Har Sahai subdivision in   district to   district has not gone down well with local lawyers, who launched an indefinite strike against the move on Tuesday.

 Demanding immediate withdrawal of the decision, Ronjat Monga, president, of Guru Har Sahai bar association, said they would continue the protest till their demand was met.
 
 A recent gazette notification stated that the 44 villages, which were a bone of contention between Ferozepur and Fazilka districts for the past few years, would be attached to Fazilka for police and criminal cases. Earlier, these villages were attached to Fazilka for civil and revenue matters after the bifurcation of Ferozepur and carving of Fazilka district. Villagers had to travel 20km to Guru Har Sahai for police and criminal cases. These villages are spread in a radius of 5-10km from   town. A police post was set up in Amir Khas village, 6km from Jalalabad on the Ferozepur road, and all 44 villages were attached to it. Now, these villages have been attached to   police station in Fazilka district.
 
 Meanwhile, the Abohar bar association also observed strike on Tuesday to protest against the notification on the transfer of 12 villages under Abohar Sadar police station to Fazilka Sadar police station.  , president, Abohar bar association, said that being the district headquarters, the appeals in all criminal cases of Abohar subdivision were already being heard in Fazilka.
 
 “The transfer of 12 villages from Abohar Sadar to Fazilka Sadar will affect the working of Abohar lawyers. Besides, people of these villages will have to travel a long way to Fazilka Sadar police station for police and criminal cases. The entire fraternity of lawyers has decided to boycott court work till their demands are fulfilled,” he said, adding that a delegation of Abohar Bar Association would meet the Ferozepur district and sessions Judge soon to convey their demand of the bar association to the Punjab and Haryana high court. 
 
 
