Nagpur: Veteran socialist leader and former mayor of Pune   was a firm believer in maintaining ethics and work culture. In his death, the country has lost a torchbearer who kept the flame of socialism burning all through his life, said Lila Chitale, a freedom fighter, who was also part of the socialist movement, on Wednesday.

 Followers, admirers and companions paid glowing tributes to Vaidya at a condolence meeting held at Rajaram Library, Dharampeth. Present on the occasion were Gandhian MM Gadkari, national president of Rashtra Seva Dal Suresh Khairnar, member of Lohiya Adhyayan Kendra Harish Adyalkar, thinker Anant Ahmadabadkar and president of Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal Shripad Joshi.
 
 Chitale said, “With Bhai gone, I feel alone. The void his death has created can never be filled. The way various newspapers carried the report of his death is a testimony to his popularity as a leader and a guiding force behind the socialist movement.” The nation needed the services of Bhai the most in today’s world in which disorderliness has been taking roots, she said. 
 
 Gadkari said Vaidya was a sensitive person and would not tolerate injustice. There are very few people like him today who have such fine qualities of a leader and thinker, he said.
 
 Speaking about his meeting with Vaidya a month ago, Khairnar said he was looking as lively as ever though his health was deteriorating. He worked tirelessly all through his life for the welfare of the people and hardly took rest. He was an avid reader unlike most politicians who read only those reports where their names appear prominently, Khairnar said. Conversing with Bhai always used to be an enriching experience, he added.
 
 Ahmadabadkar and Adyalkar said Bhai was different from other politicians. He strove for bringing a change in the society. His oratorial skills and principles were par excellence, they said.
 
 The meeting ended with those present observing a minute’s silence to mourn Vaidya’s death.
 
 
