CHENNAI: After an initial delay due to lack of clarity, private mofussil buses in   have started collecting toll plaza user fee and accident compensation claim amount from passengers.

 The state transport department had earlier revised norms allowing private operators to collect Rs 1 for every Rs 25 collected from passengers towards ticket sales.
 
 However, there was no clarity about the rates among some of the operators. Now that it has been sorted out, fares have been revised in all private moffusil buses.
 
 D R Dharmaraj, general secretary of Federation of Bus Operators’ Associations of Tamil Nadu said, “This is a welcome move as we (operators) were not able to break even because of the increased toll fees. Our profits would go up with this change.”
 
 Passengers are forced to shell out extra on bus fares, said K   from a CITU-affiliated state transport union.
 
 Responding to this, a transport department official said it would be legally incorrect to have different fare slabs for private and government buses and courts might have directed us to do the same had private operators approached them. “Also, occupancy rate in government buses will come down if private buses collect less fare,”” he added. 
 
 On the other hand, advocate VS  , who handles road accident related cases in the Madras high court, said setting up a fund with the money collected would help in quicker settlement of accident claims. 
 
 Despite government allocating Rs 190 crore towards accident claims, more than 400 buses are still under judicial custody for non-payment of dues.
 
 Experts say the financial burden on the state would have been under control if they had brought an insurance cover. None of the 22,000 government buses have third-party or comprehensive insurance coverage. They have been let off the radar by traffic enforcement authorities. However, they turn very stringent when it comes to other private vehicles. 
 
 On an average, 1,700 vehicles are detained a month for want of third party insurance certificates. According   data, a total of 16,800 vehicles were penalised for the said traffic offence and 200 are under police custody in Tamil Nadu. 
 
 
