Coimbatore:  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  , Ahmedabad,  ,  .

 “Design is essential for both social and economic development. The industry has realised it now and is focusing more on design,” said Vyas, who was in the city to participate in ‘India Design Mark 2018 and Good Design Seminar’ held at the PSG Institute of Management.
 
 While about 1.6 million engineers and management students graduate every year, only 10,000 students graduate from design schools, Vyas said. “There is a big gap there,” he told TOI.
 
 “India has realised the importance of design very late. Though we have had a strong aesthetic sensibility in our arts and crafts, we came late to the idea of design in industrial products as ours was a closed economy till the 90s,” he said.
 
 Vyas said all products should be designed taking cognisance of the user, producer, technology and environment. “A good design should not use much energy and should not cause much pollution. The idea of minimalism should be incorporated in usage of resources, to make the design sustainable,” he said.
 
 There should be a contextual adaptation of technology and design. “For example the idea of automation and Industry 4.0 might do away with several jobs. So, in our context, we have to look into how we can create jobs using the same technology,” he said.
 
 India Design Mark, or I Mark, is a recognition of good design product, given by the India Design Council. The council was set up in 2009, to create awareness about design, based on the recommendation of the National Design Policy framed in 2007.
 
 For the last six years, the council has been recognising products with good design with ‘I Mark’, said Vyas. “So far 309 products have been recognised. In the current year, we have recognised 69 more products. For this, the council has been collaborating with the Japan Institute of Design Promotion, which recognises good design product with ‘G Mark’ or good design mark,” he said.
 
 Speakers at the seminar discussed emerging ideas in design such as inclusive design and design in action.
 
 Products ranging from furniture to industrial machinery were displayed to be assessed for ‘I Mark’ as part of the event.
 
 
