INDORE: A local   in Dewas has expressed concern over police officials turning   during a murder trial leading to the acquittal of the accused and has called for investigation by senior police officers to know the factual position in the case.

 The accused, erstwhile ruler of Dewas princely state   Puar and others had been charged with murder of a local resident following a land dispute in 2015.
 
 During the trial, three constables and several witnesses including victim’s family members had turned hostile.
 
 “The police are synonymous with faith and security in minds of general public but above stated conduct of police officials is really alarming situation and such type of conduct and behavior of police officials undoubtedly diminishes the image of police which may create fear and insecurity in mind of society,” the court order read.
 
 Third additional and district sessions judge Joginder Singh stated in the order that there was a need for proper investigation by higher police authorities in this regard to know factual position in order to establish faith of public in police administration.
 
 The constables, during their cross examination, had told the court that they were not eye-witnesses to the incident and by the time they had reached the spot, the assailants who had killed the victim, had escaped.
 
 In their statements recorded by the investigating officer Savita Choudhari, the constables had claimed to have seen the accused Vikram Singh Puar and his associates attack the victim Pratap Lodhi. But in the court, the constables said that they had not given any such statement to Choudhari.
 
 Senior police officer involved in the investigation said that the entire matter had been probed by SIT. “The constables may have been influenced by the royal family,” the officer said on condition of anonymity.
 
 The court also said that it was expected of competent police authorities to take initiative to stop such type of embarrassing situations from recurring by taking proper action against those police officials.
 
 On March 18, 2015, Lodhi and two others were injured during a scuffle over possession of a piece of land owned by Puar family. Lodhi died during treatment at a hospital in Indore on March 22, following which a case of murder was filed against Puar and others.
 
 Vikram Singh Puar is son of former BJP minister late Tukojirao Puar and current BJP MLA Gayatri Raje Puar.
 
 
