NEW DELHI: In what appears to be a suicide pact, a 30-year-old man and his 28-year-old wife were found   in their   on Sunday morning. The man’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan. The woman was on the floor with marks around her neck suggesting that her body fell after the rope snapped due to stress.

 The victims, Mohit Bagga and Arpita Bagga, had been living on the third floor of the apartment for the last one year.
 
 A preliminary probe has revealed that Arpita had messaged her mother-in-law on WhatsApp, who lives in Garhi village near Okhla, that she and her husband were taking their lives. The message was sent around 4am. They had moved their two dogs into the balcony before taking their lives.
 
 The man’s mother saw the message around 10am and immediately informed her husband and other relatives living close to the couple’s flat. Meanwhile, Mohit’s friends tried calling him on the phone for a game of cricket, but couldn’t get a response. Two of them then went to his flat.
 
 The family members and the friends broke open the door and found the   dead in the drawing room. The PCR was informed after which cops took the bodies for autopsy. No suicide note has been found.
 
 “As the couple had been married for less than seven years, the area SDM and tehsildar have been informed and they will be conducting a separate investigation into the incident. An inquest under Section 176 of CrPC has been initiated,” DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said.
 
 Mohit’s friends said that they hadn’t noticed him showing any indications of stress or depression. “We were chatting till 3.30am in the WhatsApp group. He had said that he would be coming to play cricket with us in the morning. Around 10am, when he did not pick up his phone, we came here and found what has happened,” said Mohit’s friend, Anuj Arora.
 
 Police have found that Mohit had suffered losses in his business forcing him to shut shop about a month ago. He was looking for a job and had recently landed one. He was to join on Tuesday. His father, Sushil Kumar Bagga, has a jewellery showroom near East of Kailash. Mohit had first gone to Canada and then New Zealand for studies. He had returned a few years ago and got married to Arpita in 2016. A probe is on to find out of the couple was under stress for not having a child after two years of marriage.
 
 The woman’s parents, who live in Varanasi, have been informed about the incident. The autopsy would be conducted on Monday morning following which the bodies will be handed over to the families.
 
 
