MOHALI:   residents endured a 17-hour power breakdown in one of the worst blackouts that was triggered by Saturday evening’s storm.

 Trees fell on high tension overhead wires in   village, snapping power in many villages and housing societies falling in the eastern part of the township in the night.
 
 Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) executive engineer N S Rangi said JCB machines and power cutters were used to cut branches of Eucalyptus trees that fell on the power cables and broke three electricity poles supporting the wires. Rangi said workforce crunch delayed the repair work by 17 hours, a claim that failed to calm down residents of the societies.
 
 “It seems we will have to come out on the roads as our government only responds when people agitate. The internal underground cabling of our hosing society is poor. In April only, we spent over Rs 20,000 in getting internal cables replaced after suffering a long power outage. Both PSPCL issues and our internal wirings have made our lives miserable,” said Taj Hoda, a local resident.
 
 “Power cuts are a regular feature in Zirakpur. We face power fluctuation as well as unscheduled power cuts ranging between 30 minutes to 2 hours, but this time we were without the power for 17 hours,” said  , a local resident.
 
 Electricity department officials claimed they had restored the power by 2 pm on Sunday, but residents said power kept tripping after every 10 minutes.
 
 Davinder Singh, a resident of Silver City Extension, said they faced electricity problems since 6 pm on Saturday. “Now it is tripping repeatedly after every 10 minutes.”
 
 Rangi said they were checking the main lines and the problem will be rectified. He said, “The major power breakdown was due to the bad weather. Otherwise, there are no power cuts as the state is power surplus.”
 
 'Buying house in Zirakpur a mistake’
 
 Electricity department officials claimed they had restored the power by 2 pm on Sunday, but residents said power kept tripping after every 10 minutes.
 
 Davinder Singh, a resident of Silver City Extension, said they faced electricity problems since 6 pm on Saturday. “Now it is tripping repeatedly after every 10 minutes.” Rangi said they were checking the main lines and the problem will be rectified. He said, “The major power breakdown was due to the bad weather.”
 
 Navjit Singh Miglani, a local resident, said, “This is not the first time that there was a major power breakdown in Zirakpur. We had purchased a house here thinking that it is a newlydeveloped area and we will get proper facilities, but we have now realised that we made a mistake.”
 
 Sources in the power department said powermen have been working in insecure environment. The PSPCL has a staff crunch and is ill-equipped.
 
 
