GUWAHATI: The state Congress lambasted BJP MP  's remarks that in most of the rape cases people from a particular community were to blame. The senior politician had made that comment on Friday. 

 "Such a statement from a veteran politician is deplorable. It clearly shows she has not been able to transcend the sectarian barrier and widen her mental horizon," Congress vice-president and former minister, Pradyut Bordoloi, said on Saturday.
 
 Chakraborty, who represents the Guwahati parliamentary constituency, on Friday had said that while incidents of rape against women were on the rise, the involvement of men from a particular community had also gone up. She said she was not politicizing rape but only highlighting facts. 
 
 Later, however, she toned down her statement saying that rapists are perverts and can belong to any community. The MP also demanded that rapists be hanged or shot.
 
 "This is a reactionary comment on a serious issue. It is an attempt to communalize and divide people on religious lines," Bordoloi maintained.
 
 The All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which has a strong following in Muslim-majority districts, said BJP sees rape through the prism of religion because it wants to polarize society for electoral gains.   chief and Lok Sabha MP, Badruddin Ajmal, said the punishment for raping a minor should be death penalty. 
 
 "Our party has been demanding this for long," Ajmal tweeted. 
 
 AIUDF general secretary Aminul Islam said, "As a senior parliamentarian and former Union minister, Chakraborty should know that laws of the land do not deal with crime on the basis of religion." Islam stressed that BJP's game plan has always been to capture power by polarising people.
 
 "We are unanimous on the view that incidents of rape tarnishes a country's image. We have to root out this evil so that globally the country's image does not suffer," Islam said.
 
 Assam State Jamiat Ulama on Friday said rapists have no religion and no religion accepts a rapist.
 
 
