JAIPUR: Students of a city based private school have scripted history by winning an international investment competition organised by Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Three schools emerged victorious in the global competition- Jayshree Periwal International School (Jaipur), Amity International School (Noida) and Team ‘All you can eat buffet’ (Great Falls, Virginia). The last team had members from different schools in the   town. Eighteen teams were selected out of the 400 participating teams from 70 countries in three regions. The event started in early November and finally ended on Saturday.

 An eight member team of JPIS Grade IX was given the task of managing a portfolio of $100,000 virtual cash for 10 weeks. The aim was to provide maximum yield to the company by providing able guidance through monitoring the ups and downs in the international business world. Like thorough global financial leaders, the winning teams implemented the complex concepts like Sharpe ratio for risk adjusted returns, Monte Carlo simulation, McKenzie 7s model for analyzing businesses etc.
 
 “It’s like working for a real company and facing real challenges of the business world. Every day we had to meticulously plan our market strategy after studying global market trends. Not to forget the last minute changes keeping the ups and downs in the market. Following sentiment analysis using machine system is truly a life changing experience,” said Dhruv Khandelwal, a team member of JPIS over phone from the US.
 
 Sharing the experience, Parth Maheshwari said that learning from global finance leaders and academics have expanded their understanding to implement several business models required for India. “During the course of the competition I have realized that the world considers India as a global guru not only in the field of spirituality, IT but also in our financial acumen,” said Maheshwari.
 
 Mohammed Darvish, a team leader of the team since November missed the grand finally in the US. His US visa was delayed ending his dream to represent India in the global event. Other team members included-Damya Bhatia, Priyanshi Rawat, Shree Rungta, Vansh Jain and Laksh Chhabra.
 
 
