GURUGRAM: Members of the residents’ welfare association ( ) of  , Sector 54, met chief minister   on Thursday, requesting him to expedite handover of the society to MCG, owing to bad management by the developer.

  According to residents, the transfer was supposed to take place in June last year and the detailed project report (DPR) for it was prepared by July, but then the matter was deferred later. 
 
 According to sources, the chief minister has directed the municipal body to speed up the process. 
 
 Residents claimed that Khattar promised to issue a deadline for the transfer in seven days. “Our meeting with the chief minister lasted for 20 minutes. He did not issue a deadline for the transfer immediately but promised to do so in seven days,” said residents.
 
 VMK Singh, general secretary,  , said, “Gurugram MLA Umesh Aggarwal fixed the meeting for us. The chief minister was receptive to our queries and promised to act in good faith. We found the discussion to be very positive.”
 
 Residents told TOI that MCG commissioner  , district town planner (DTP) RS Batth, and Aggarwal were among those present during the meeting. 
 
 The transfer of new colonies to MCG has become a contentious issue in the city. Residents said that they were aggrieved with the way in which the transfer of the society to MCG had been dragging on.
 
 “The roads are in a bad condition and there are other inadequacies with regards to maintenance of the society. Earlier, we had raised the issue through CM Window but the matter was only transferred from one department to the other,” Singh said.
 
 MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav told TOI that the takeover was supposed to happen after full examination of the society but presently, a lot of deficiencies were being brought to their notice.
 
 “MCG had made a proposal under which the developer would pay the municipal body to make up for the deficiencies in the society, following which we would have expedited the transfer but there has been no consensus on that. The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has also raised some issues that are pending. I am going to look into these issues before we do anything further,” he said.
 
 
