KANNUR:   panchayat in Kasaragod, which won the   award last year, has added yet another feather in its cap by becoming the first village panchayat in the country that has completely abandoned filament bulbs, and this declaration was made by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday.

 The panchayat achieved this rare distinction by replacing all the filament bulbs by LED bulbs under its unique project ‘Oorjayanam’, which aims to make the panchayat energy efficient, and this has evinced the interest of the district administration, which wants to introduce it in other parts of the district as well.
 
 Making the declaration at Kalikkadavu in Pilicode, the chief minister said the panchayat has gained international attention through this project and it is a model for other panchayats to replicate.
 
 By reducing energy consumption, we will be able to effectively resist the menaces like global warming. If we are able to save one unit of electricity, we will be able to save one kilogram of coal, and this way we can also reduce environmental pollution caused by burning fuels like coal and petroleum, said Pinarayi Vijayan.
 
 He also said the government was considering such a possibility of making the entire State filament-bulb-free. We can also explore the possibility of solar electricity in large scale, said the chief minister, who added that 70 percent of the electricity we require comes from other States. Of the 30 percent being made here, the major share is from hydroelectric projects and there will be fluctuation according to the variation in monsoon.
 
 40000 filament bulbs replaced
 
 Under this project for energy conservation, nearly 40000 filament bulbs were replaced by LED bulbs from the houses, shops and other establishments and this way 120,328 units of electricity was saved last year in the panchayat, according to the panchayat authorities. The project was implemented with the support of   (EMC) of the State government, which enforces the Energy Conservation Act, 2001.
 
 Pilicode panchayat president Sreedharan T V said this is only the first part of the project, which was started in December 2016, and the aim is to initiate more steps in energy conservation to make the panchayat ‘energy positive’.
 
 Under the project, the EMC supplied the LED bulbs, and the panchayat gave these bulbs, which cost Rs 77, at a subsidized rate of Rs 50 to the customers, said the panchayat officials.
 
 As part of the project, the panchayat had conducted a survey in all the households with regards to the use of electric bulbs and other electric gadgets, and also got the details about the energy-inefficient gadgets. Based on that information, they were sensitized the way to reduce energy consumption through various steps, including switching off the refrigerator between 6 pm to 10 pm.
 
