Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com and Abhimanyu.Mathur@timesgroup.com

 The violent anti-Padmaavat protests in the city left a sour taste in the mouths of Gurgaon residents. The administration’s response to increase the security and scattered protests across the city, coupled with an already heavy security arrangement for Republic Day, meant those commuting between Delhi and Gurgaon were stuck for hours on the roads on Wednesday evening. Reports of school buses being attacked in the city on Wednesday afternoon also led to several schools remaining shut on Thursday – the day of the film's release – even as the administration maintained that there was no reason to panic.
 
  
  The first shows of 'Padmaavat' began in heavily fortified Gurgaon cinemas. Police personnel were stationed at every 100 metres along MG Road and Sohna Road, and outside all multiplexes. Many malls shifted ticket counters indoor anticipating security issues and vandalism
 
  
 Several commuters between Delhi and Gurgaon were stuck on the various access roads due to jams that stretched several kilometres and lasted several hours on Wednesday night. Kanika Tiku, a filmmaker who lives in DLF Phase 3, recounts, "I was coming from Delhi and my car was parked at the  . Usually, it takes me around 10-15 minutes to reach home but on Wednesday, it took me 90 minutes. The entire stretch of the road near the station was jam-packed, so I went to the   but even that was blocked. I took the highway and reached home at around 10.30pm. There was chaos everywhere." 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 Renuka Sharma, another resident, adds, "I was unaware of the jams and had to go the airport. Right before the Gurgaon-Delhi toll, the traffic jam was endless. I was stuck in the jam for hours and I could not even reach the airport on time. There was no way to return as well. I am six months pregnant, so it was added discomfort and trouble for me." Commuters say that rumours of protesters harming buses and other vehicles at night made the situation even scarier. Ratika Shah, a marketing professional from Sushant Lok, who reached home at 11pm, tells us, "The worst of all were the rumours doing the rounds during the jam. Someone was saying they are torching buses on some route while others were claiming that the protesters had blocked MG Road. That added to the fear while being stuck on the road late at night."
 
  
  Children crouch on the floor as a mob protesting against Padmaavat throw stones at GD Goenka World School’s bus on Wednesday
 
 
  
  
 
  
 After Wednesday’s incidents, Gurgaon administration and the police maintain that they are taking steps to ensure peace in the city. Gurgaon district administration has prohibited people “carrying fire arms and other articles capable of causing injuries, raising slogans, exhibiting placards” to come within a radius of 200 meters of cinema halls and multiplexes in the city. Gurgaon Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh says, “We’ve imposed Section 144 (CrPC) till Sunday, and deputed 25 duty magistrates in the city. There’s heavy deployment of cops and the mob is being brought under control. We’ll take further decisions as the situation evolves.” 
 
 Gurgaon Police has also strengthened security at malls and multiplexes, deputing up to 30 personnel each at most major malls, including the ones on MG Road, Sohna Road, as well as Ambience Mall. Even though the district administration did not order offices or schools to close down, many did so voluntarily on Thursday. Schools like GD Goenka, Pathways Global, Amity Global, Lotus Valley, and Shri Ram School were closed among others. “My son is in GD Goenka and thankfully, he was on leave yesterday. We have only received notice of a day off and we are staying in today. Even commuting within Gurgaon is not advisable,” says Amit Singh, a hospital employee. “We received notice about schools shutting down due to protests. I am not planning to send my child to school till this settles down. Since we have received advisories from our offices to work from home as well, we have stopped all outdoor activities,” says Kavita Pachauri, a Sohna Road resident.
 
  
 
 Several corporate offices also issued advisories to their employees on Wednesday, telling them to work from home or not stay back in office till late. Manish Kalra, Director, Ernst & Young, tells us, "Our CEO sent us an advisory on Wednesday night telling us not to stay back late in office. We all were advised to go home by 8pm given the situation." Employees from many other companies have also received texts or mails from their bosses. “We have been sent advisories to be careful while stepping out. We were also advised to work from home, especially the employees who commute from Delhi to Gurgaon. We are constantly informed about the happenings in the city on our office WhatsApp groups if there is any danger,” says a Nagarro employee. Nandini, who works in American Express, adds, "I was stuck in traffic for hours, and I took a work from home yesterday, as I received a message from my boss asking me to not step out in Gurgaon. Hardly anyone I know went to office on Thursday."
 
 
  
  
 
  Many freelancers and officegoers cancelled their work meetings and other work for Thursday and over the extended weekend as well, saying they put safety over work. Ankur Brar, a Delhi resident, says, "I am a producer and most of my meetings and work is in Gurgaon but after Wednesday’s incidents and traffic conditions, I have cancelled meetings for some days. It has harmed my work, but safety comes first." Rashi Kukreja, an IT professional who stays in DLF Phase 5, says, "I had meetings to attend and then leave for my hometown in the afternoon but after looking at the situation, I have cancelled all that. I have decided that it is safer to just stay at home."
 
  
 
