PUNE: The state government is set to rationalise the   (RR) rates for all valuation zones.

 A senior official from the revenue department shared this information with TOI on Tuesday. “The rationalized rates will depend on the sales, average market rates, local inquiries and documents registered, among others,” he said ahead of the district-wise consultations for the RR rates to be announced in April.
 
 The RR rates are used to calculate the value of immovable property, such as commercial or residential buildings or land and charge stamp duty on them. 
 
 The official said there is increased demand of keeping the rates unchanged this year. “The rates will be finalized after discussions with all the stakeholders,” he assured.
 
 State IGR Anil Kawade said meetings with all the stakeholders will take place in the next two months in all the districts. “We will take opinion of all the stakeholders before deciding the rates,” he said.
 
 The state has been divided into four regions to compile RR rates – rural, influential (peri-urban areas peripheral to urban areas), municipal council and municipal corporation areas. “The valuation will be done at micro level and it will be done rationally,” the officials said.
 
 The valuation will involve an automatic analysis of property transactions in a particular city survey (CTS) number to arrive at a scientific average using satellite imagery. “This will help us to get details of development in various areas and how they affect real estate prices,” the officials said.
 
 A challenge, however, lies here in the fact that all the land records have not been updated and digitised.
 
  have to pay stamp duty equivalent to 5% of the RR value or 5% of the actual property value (whichever is more) as mentioned in the sale agreement. Property tax computations are also linked to RR rates.
 
 In December, revenue minister Chandrakant Patil had said the rates will be “stable”. He, however, steered clear of any mention of any reduction in RR rates.
 
 
