MOHALI: Dairy owners here have found an innovative way to counter municipal corporation (MC) notices that were sent to them in a bid to keep   off the city roads.

 Interestingly, now, herds of cattle are seen with a caretaker to prove that the livestock is not stray. Result? Usual traffic jams and accident prone roads.
 
 The dairy owners have said that the MC notice states to capture stray cattle if seen roaming on the city roads. “But if the cattle is under supervision, then MC cannot capture them. Neither can the authority penalise the owners,” the dairy owners said.
 
 The residents of Sectors 68, 69, 70, 71, Phase IX, X and XII are up in arms against the MC as the stray cattle invade parks in their community. Residents say that despite repeated complaints, the MC has failed to address the issue.
 
 Councillor of ward number 44 Amrik Singh Somal said that his ward was the most affected as all the sectors under his ward fall along the borders with villages having cattle dairies. Ward number 44 comprises Sectors 71, 74, 75, 77, 90 and 91.
 
 “Now we see a new way of making cattle graze in green belts and open parks. Herds of cattle are seen with caretakers, which is not under violation. The scenario remains the same, the cattle, along with its caretaker, enters green belts and parks restricting residents to enjoy the facility of green belts and parks,” Somal said.
 
 Senior citizens of   have lodged their complaints to the MC of being deprived of having morning and evening walks in parks.
 
 Gurpal Singh Bains, a resident of Sector 74 said, “We purchased a park-facing house. But since the time we moved in, we could only see cattle enjoying the facility. It is the duty of the civic body to free such parks from stray cattle. They have failed to do so.”
 
 Councillors, too, have been raising this issue from time and again but have failed to bring any relief.  , a resident of Sector 69 said, “The dairy owners of a village next to our sector have now started letting their cattle loose with a caretaker. The animals keep on grazing in the park opposite our houses and also defecate there.”
 
 Recently, the MC raised the penalty for stray cattle from Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000. However, what is more interesting is the fact that the civic body neither has any data of challans issued to stray cattle owners nor any record of number of stray cattle caught in the recent past.
 
 
