Like many others P R Vishwanath, a resident of   in Madurai, too developed a compassion for animals from a young age. But he did not stop with just showing empathy from a distance. For the past 10 years, Vishwanath, 32, has been rescuing animals in distress, mostly  . He has taken up   activities to restore the habitat of these animals with the help of a team of volunteers.

 Along with his childhood friend R Sahadevan, Vishwanath started ‘Urvanam’ three years ago. Many volunteers joined the organisation over a period of time. 
 
  rescues animals, be it domestic animals, wild animals, or birds. But the organisation is better known for rescuing snakes. "It is because we have been getting more calls for catching snakes. We have also been rescuing dogs, birds, mongooses, monkeys and palm civets," said Vishwanath, an MBA graduate.
 
 Urvanam gets an average of 200 calls per month for rescuing snakes from various parts of the city. Its volunteers have rescued more than 5,000 snakes and released them in suitable habitats. Vishwanath says even though residents today are more aware about wildlife compared a decade ago, killing of snakes is still rampant. "There are times when people would have already killed the snake by the time we reached the spot. Such killings happen due to lack of awareness about snakes and their behaviour. People do not know the difference between poisonous and non-poisonous species. Snakes are crucial to biodiversity and it may cause serious ecological imbalance if their number comes down," he says Vishwanath who learnt the art of handling snake from Sahadevan.
 
 When a wild animal is rescued by Urvanam, it is either done in the presence of forest personnel or with prior approval. Volunteers usually nursed a rescued animal in their homes until it is fit to be released. Urvanam recently started a home for rescued animals. "When we posted a request on our Facebook page, a gentleman came forward to give a piece of land for three years without any rent for us to start the home," Vishwanath said.
 
 Urvanam conducts programmes in schools and colleges to create awareness on snakes. Indian cobra, Russell’s viper and common krait are commonly found poisonous snakes whereas wolf snake, green wine snake, bronze back tree snake and sand boa are harmless ones, says Vishwanath.
 
 Having reached out to thousands of students across the district in the past three years, Vishwanath, says the efforts seem to have paid off. "People used to kill the snake the moment they spotted it. Now they are aware enough to call the forest department or volunteers to   the snake."
 
 Apart from helping animals in distress, volunteers at Urvanam also clean and renovate water bodies in and around Tirunagar and plant trees to restore habitats of animals. They have renovated Vilachery Tank and Semathan Tank over the past couple of years.
 
 
