THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Serious concerns were raised on the lack of transparency and inefficiency across various rehabilitation schemes for returnees from overseas countries at the   (LKS), which concluded here on Saturday. 

 The failure of government mechanisms, including the NDPREM (Norka Department Project for Returned Emigrants) scheme, in rehabilitating the returnees was categorically stated by the NRKs who took part in the discussions on 'Issues after Return'. 
 
  minister T P Ramakrishnan, who moderated the discussions, reiterated that rehabilitation of returnees was a major priority for the government.
 
 "The NRKs and the returnees have crores deposited in banks here and are ready to invest in all the 14 districts. But the Norka-Roots or   affairs department has failed to extend support to them," said Y A Rahim, who represented NRKs in Sharjah, UAE.
 
 P M Jabir from Oman, who cited lack of transparency in NDPREM, said even the   were reluctant in accepting NRKs' contributions to the Welfare Fund Board. All the welfare schemes for returnees should be unified and brought under the Welfare Fund Board, he demanded.
 
 Among the proposals that came up during the discussion was bringing in a clause for job reservation for returnees while approving large or medium-scale NRK projects. A suggestion was also made to limit big investments to production and export sectors and medium ones to sectors including construction and tourism.
 
 Seeking government support for returnees from poor financial backgrounds, the forum called for launching a contributory pension scheme and an ESI-model medical insurance scheme. Such schemes are vital for rehabilitation of unskilled people, who come back with no savings, the delegates said.
 
 Labour additional chief secretary Tom Jose, who made a presentation based on a survey conducted in 2014, said Kerala was receiving an annual NRK remittance of around Rs71,000 crore. "The number of returnees doubled in 2014 compared to 1998, which calls for concrete initiatives to accommodate them using their earned skills and knowledge," he said.
 
 
