HYDERABAD: Along with increase in number of vehicles, lack of pedestrian signals and foot over-bridges (FOBs) are majorly contributing to slow movement of traffic, as jaywalkers are seen blocking traffic across the city.

 The pedestrians said they are forced to wade through moving traffic as there are hardly any pedestrian signals or foot over-bridges. However, the civic department officials said that pedestrian signals cannot be used as they block free flow of traffic.
 
 “Jaywalking is interrupting free flow of traffic and should be made a punishable offence, provided we have right infrastructure. Without providing pelican crossing at every 300 meters, the government can’t blame pedestrians for crossing roads at their convenient point. They are, in fact, forced to cross road amidst moving traffic,” said  , a road safety expert, adding that FOBs are not effective in the city limits. He added both pedestrians and motorists should be educated about ‘right of way’.
 
 The civic officials, however, argued that FOBs are safest mode for pedestrians to cross the road without interrupting traffic flow. “With pelican or pedestrian signals, the flow of traffic gets interrupted for 30 seconds and will cause more traffic jams. So, FOBs are the best option as they don’t interrupt traffic and are also safe,” said Srinivas Chary, executive engineer of GHMC’s electrical wing.
 
 Chary also said that keeping pedestrians in mind, the   is planning to install another 25 pedestrian signals, of which 9 of them will be installed in next one month.
 
 Civic officials said in next couple of years, about 80 FOBs will be constructed to ensure pedestrian safety. “As of now, 16 FOBs are under construction and   has been given the responsibility of constructing about 40-44 FOBs. Another 12 FOBs will be constructed by the GHMC within a year. In total, about 80 FOBs will be added to the city,” said M  , executive engineer, GHMC.
 
 Reddy added that new FOBs will be constructed near RS Brothers in Ameerpet, Madinaguda, Miyapur, KPHB and other places. In the city, there are a total of 11 FOBs, 6 pelican signals and about 356 zebra crossings. Other nine pelican signals are in the pipeline and proposals have been received for about25 pedestrian signals.
 
 Did you have a bad experience on the road today, or stuck in a jam for long? And if you live in an area which needs attention? Please write about your experience to traffictoireaders@gmail.com and we will take it up with the authorities.
 
