GURUGRAM: A census of  , recently released by Asian Waterbird Committee ( ), has news to cheer wildlife activists and bird watchers. 

 They report there’s an almost 135% increase in number of birds and 21% increase in the number of species at the jheel compared to 2017.
 
 According to the census, total number of birds recorded at Najafgarh jheel was 3,091, compared to 1,317 in 2017. The number of species, on the other hand, increased from a record of 33 in 2017 to 40 in 2018. In 2016, 1,481 birds of 38 species were spotted.
 
 Out of 40 species recorded this year, 19 are of resident water birds, including local migratory birds, and 21 of winter migratory water birds, including four species of IUCN Red-listed threatened species. Some of the species spotted included Bar-headed Geese, Graylag Geese, Black-tailed Godwit, Greater Flamingo, Black-winged Stilt, Common Teal, Northern Shoveler and Ruff. Species listed as IUCN Red-listed threatened that were spotted were Wooly-necked Stork, Painted Stork, Black-headed Ibis and Black-necked Stork.
 
 “Surprisingly, AWC 2018 census has recorded an increase in water birds diversity at the jheel. We have observed that more birds were seen during late mornings rather than afternoons. That means Najafgarh is an important feeding habitat for birds, especially geese species that are vegetarian. 
 
 “It shows there is good vegetation and good aquatic biodiversity at the jheel,” said  , AWC Delhi state coordinator and ecologist.
 
 Roy also pointed out that Najafgarh jheel is shrinking due to less rainfall, owing to impact of global climate change, and needs immediate protection by authorities. “Due to less monsoon rainfall in 2017, Najafgarh jheel is shrinking and almost drying this winter. Even though we recorded better species diversity, not many duck species, except small flocks of Common Teal, have been recorded. It is due to lack of water in the wetland. Also, if birds are coming to Najafgarh jheel only to feed, they probably don’t find it a safe habitat to reside. They might be residing in nearby wetlands, including Ohkla Bird Sanctuary and Sultanpur National Park, but coming to Najafgarh to feed. It calls for an immediate notification of Najafgarh jheel as a wetland and measures for its protection,” he said. 
 
 Part of the International Waterbird Census of Wetlands International, AWC carries out water bird census simultaneously in 27 countries in Asia and   once a year in January. The census is being carried out at six important wetlands in the NCR —   Bird Sanctuary, Surajpur Wetland, Najafgarh drain and jheel, Yamuna river,   lake and the National Zoological Park.
 
