MUMBAI: The   ruled on Thursday that   have a fundamental right to enjoy good   and  . A division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Riyaz Chagla cited the government’s plans for smart cities and said this would be possible only if good streets are made available. 

 “We are aware of the government’s endeavour to make every city smart. However, no city can become a smart city unless it has roads and footpaths in a reasonably good condition,” observed the bench. HC emphasised that it was the state and civic bodies’ responsibility to provide these to citizens. “It is the   right of a citizen to have roads and footpaths in a reasonably good condition and correspondingly it is the obligation of local authorities to provide it to them. All steps should be taken to see that the citizens are not deprived of their rights,” said the judges. 
 
 HC said it was also the authorities’ responsibility to ensure that grievances of violation of this right were redressed promptly within a specified time period and communicated to citizens. It directed the Maharashtra government to set up a centralized grievance redressal mechanism and frame a policy to ensure good quality roads are constructed.
 
 HC reminded the authorities that if citizens suffer harms due to failure of authorities to maintain roads in a good condition, then they can take action for claiming compensation. The judges referred to the September 2017 death of Dr Deepak Amrapurkar after he fell into an open manhole. “Necessary precaution should be taken to ensure that such an unfortunate incident of citizens falling into an open manhole should not be repeated. The municipal corporation shall take all possible steps to see to it that no open manhole is left unattended. If it is left open, then necessary warning signs shall be placed near it,” said the judges. “If a citizen suffers as a result of the failure of the state machinery to maintain roads, apart from liability under the regular law of torts, the person can take recourse to public law remedy. They can initiate action under public law to seek compensation from the authorities,” said the judges. 
 
 HC was hearing a suo motu PIL based on a July 2013 letter by Justice Gautam Patel. Over the past five years, various interim orders were passed to get authorities to set up mechanisms to handle complaints.
 
