PUNE: The city police commissionerate’s jurisdiction is all set to reduce by almost half of its present area of 800-odd sq km after the new   police commissionerate becomes operational. 

 As of now, a total of 39 police stations fall under the jurisdiction of the city police. Nine of these police stations, which cover 300 sq km area in zone-III and another 39 sq km area of the Dehu Road police station in zone-IV, will come under the new police commissionerate. In that case, the Pune police will be left with a little over 460 sq km area to manage. 
 
 Senior city police officials said the reduced jurisdiction will give them an opportunity to implement better policing, but they also felt disappointed by the fact that the state was yet to take a call on another long-standing proposal of merging the Lonikand, Loni Kalbhor and   police station areas, which are under the Pune rural police, with the city police jurisdiction. They were expecting the state cabinet to approve this proposal along with that of the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate. 
 
 Pune police commissioner Rashmi Shukla said, “The reduced jurisdiction means there will be greater presence of police and a positive impact on maintaining law and order in the city.”
 
 Shukla said, in reference to the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate, “Several rural areas will now become a part of the new police commissionerate and that will benefit people residing in these areas in terms of police presence. The police force’s response time to incidences of crime in urban areas will reduce. Travelling time of people from far off places will reduce as they will have easier access to new police commissionerate.”
 
 Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Kadam said, “The city police will continue to have 30 police stations and there will be fresh demarcation of the four zonal areas after the nine police stations under zone-III come under the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate. Each division headed by an assistant commissioner of police will have four or more police stations. The work on re-arranging police station areas is under progress,” Kadam added.
 
 
