JAIPUR: Talk of Rajasthan and it’s rare not to conjure up images of colourful textiles, aesthetically made jewellery, paintings, stone work and lot more. Kings, the patrons of these arts and crafts, are not around but their legacy, which flourished in the past decades and centuries through innumerable artistic innovations, today lives on with connoisseurs, collectors and practitioners.

 While many families and individuals in Jaipur and Rajasthan possess such works of art with pride, they can also be a great inspiration and learning experience for students, tourists and others as well.
 
 Two-and-a-half years ago, the government had decided to create an art space for displaying the rich cultural heritage of Rajasthan including those from the private individuals, resulting in the   in   and it opened its gates in December last year. “Right now, the museum has five galleries displaying jewellery, textiles, paintings, stone works etc. Even though it’s been there only for six months, the museum has started striking a chord with art lovers. It is now attracting about 150 people every day and we expect better footfall once the peak summer months pass,” says Apurba Roy Choudhary, curator of the museum. The museum building was originally the residence of Pandit Shivdeen, a minister of the erstwhile Jaipur state during the reign of   II. It first opened as the “Madarsa-e-Hunari” or the institute of arts under the patronage of the king with a curriculum covering paintings, drawings, designs, wood carvings, pottery etc. But since 1988, it was running as Rajasthan School of Arts.
 
 “Under the   project, the building, which has 64 big and small rooms and two large halls, was renovated, preserving its heritage character. The school was moved to a new campus. Now, it’s a place where one can view the best of Rajasthani’s art and craft. But art has no boundaries, and we will also exhibit indigenous art from different parts of India. Besides, there are plans to have art workshops, special summer programmes for students, live performances and cultural events. Ultimately, we want to make it a microcosm of Indian art,” adds Choudhary.
 
 Of the five galleries, one is dedicated to textiles. Embroidered shawls from Bikaner, applique work from Jaisalmer and Ghagra from Shekhawati region are some of the pieces that can help one trace the artistic textile tradition of Rajasthan. Former IPS officer Brij Bhasin, who has collected these 100-year-old articles over the past 50 years, is exhibiting them in a gallery named ‘Everyday Embroideries.’ “There is a lot for the students of arts and design to learn from these works of art,” says Bhasin.
 
 The gallery on the art of jewellery-making also narrates a similar story through drawings, exquisitely designed and crafted silver boxes, hookahs etc exhibited by  , one of the leading jewellers of the state. Kasliwal says the aesthetic appeal of the past is very much relevant even today. “They remain the mother of all designs and the current generation will do well if they can blend the richness of the past designs with modern taste,” adds Kasliwal.
 
 These are still early days and work is in progress for the Museum of Legacies to evolve as an alternative museum.
 
 
