TRICHY: The fire service personnel have lamented that they were mostly under-equipped to face emergency situations and thus put their lives at a greater risk especially while venturing into deep waters or rivers as part of rescue operations. 

 The first responders of the district voiced their concern about the safety measures at the fire safety week organized to pay homage to firefighters like A Gunendran, 46, who lost his life while rescuing three cows from   river, in   on Saturday.
 
 Gunendran, of Srirangam fire station, died after he jumped into Cauvery River flowing in full spate to save three cows trapped in the gushing water, near Geetha Nagar in Srirangam. A good swimmer, Gunendran saved two of the cows but was unfortunate to be swept underwater while rescuing the third.His colleagues could manage to recover his body only from the River after sometime. The tragic end of Gunendran was the only death that has occurred for some years in Trichy that is composed of Trichy headquarters, Srirangam, Navalpattu, Lalgudi, Pullambadi, Uppiliyapuram, Manapparai and Thuvarankurichi. It has a total of around 280 personnel and officials.
 
 District fire officer M  , of Trichy division, said that Gunendran’s life has been given for great cause and he would be remembered as a martyr. He placed wreath before his photograph at the district fire office in Trichy as part of the martyrs day week. Even as many firemen mourned him, they said they should get proper training and better safety gears for their own protection during rescue missions. They received repeated distress from various parts of the city and had to respond immediately to emergency situations without safety measures, they said.
 
  firemen should keep in mind ‘Be safe and Be alert’ mantra. “We always ask them to use lifebuoy and lifejacket. They should use them. Diving suit is not available with us and it may not be suitable to everyone. Yet, we ensure maximum safety to the firemen,” Ramamoorthy told ToI this evening.
 
 
