JAIPUR: It was a close shave for several people after a   broke out at a residential-cum-commercial complex located in Sector 2 of Vidhyadhar Nagar area of the city on Thursday afternoon.

 The fire was first reported at the electrical shaft on the ground floor of the   road mall, following which a thick black smoke began enveloping the building. Fire officer Jalaj Ghasiya said that toxic smoke began to spread across all floors of the building, including into a hospital which was located on the second floor.
 
 The rescue teams comprising state disaster relief force (SDRF), civil defence and fire officials, began evacuating the building. The teams used stretchers and other equipment to rescue the patients that had undergone operations recently.
 
 “There was a woman who had recently underwent a medical operation and could not walk out of the building. We took her out on stretcher from fire stair case,” Ghasiya told TOI. Vinay Singhal, a local shopkeeper told TOI that there are residential apartment above the commercial complex.
 
 “There are warehouse of mattresses, electric items and other flammable products. When the fire broke out, all people shut their shops and rushed out of the building in order to avoid the thick black smoke that had begun to emanate from wire room,” said Sighal.
 
 Fire officials said that a short circuit was reported inside the electrical shaft where all the electric cables are kept, “The smoke is the most dangerous thing, as it carries toxic chemicals which can be very hazardous. Some windowpanes were broken too,” Ghasiya said, adding that about 13 fire tenders were pressed into the services and flames were doused quickly.
 
 A sense of panic prevailed among the residents living above the apartments. “There was a smell of cable burning, following which all of us began evacuating the building through stair cases,” Anirudh, a resident said.
 
 The residents added that it was not possible to escape through the main door due to the fire. A resident told TOI that he feared about getting trapped in the building. The news about people being stuck in the building quickly spread through the fire and police control room. The RAC personnel and SDRF was called into action. The fire department said that it brought all its fire officials on the ground. “Two of our people sustained some minor injuries,” Ghasiya said, however, residents said that about five other had minor injuries and were shifted to the nearby hospital.
 
 
