TRICHY: To the casual eye, C Mohanakrishnan’s sprawling herbal garden may appear to be one of those raising medicinal plants for private medical centres which make Ayurveda medicines. But an audience with the 75-year-old farmer of T Kalathur in   district reveals that it is his singular effort undertaken with a lot of passion in the face of acute water shortage.

 Mohanakrishnan’s feat is that he has been growing and selling nearly a thousand varieties of herbs, medicinal plants and trees, many of them rare, on 15 acres of his ancestral land for the past 40 years. While most of these are organically grown, he has also been cultivating onion and cotton for livelihood.
 
 Here is a list of the trees he has been growing — Ven Naval, Aathi, Thiruvodu, Vengai, Karungali (used for making temple caskets), Kadukai, DEDE tree (for making natural colour), Mattipal (making frankincense) and   (medicine for diabetic). The herbs include Aathandai, Kundumani, Athi Mathuram, Thaya plant (for sugar), Insulin plant, Ranakalli (for kidney ailments), Milakarani (medicine for poisonous bites), Arockya Patchai, Onan Kodi, Melkathikgai, Mul Nangai, Poonai Meesai, Thazhuthalai (knee pain). “Äll of them are on the verge of extinction”, says Mohanakrishnan.
 
 Since his ancestors were practising Ayurveda, he had initially thought of following the tradition. However, he changed his mind later and decided to grow the herbs for commercial purpose. “My grandfather as well as my father practised Ayurvedic medicine. When I was thinking of becoming an Ayurveda doctor, I realised that it will not help me earn a decent income. That changed my mind and I started concentrating on nurturing all types of medicinal plants, herbs and trees. My sons M Mahendran and M Muralikrishnan are helping me out”, he added.
 
 He has spent several days crisscrossing the state in search of rare medicinal plants and herbs and on the foothills of   and Kolli hills. He had also visited these hills many times with college students to help them identify rare herbs. Mohanakrishnan has also addressed many workshops conducted at   in Coimbatore and several colleges across the state to create awareness on the importance of herbs, rare medicinal plants and trees and how those should be safeguarded. 
 
 On the business front, many people do visit his farm at T Kalathur to buy rare varieties for the preparation of medicines. However, he says his dreams to make it big have been hampered by water shortage. He had donated an acre of land to the government to establish a farm pond, which was now providing water to many farmers. “Water is the main constraint for nurturing plants. If the state government extends a helping hand, I can grow more plants which would ultimately benefit our people. If I get a loan to establish water sources or to market the plants commercially I will be able to expand the farm in a big way”, he said.
 
 
