NEW DELHI: Indicating a deepening divide in Left unity,   of India (CPI) will release its draft political resolution on Thursday that differs from its communist cousin, CPM, on the subject of political alliances. In the run-up to its party   in April,   had released its draft political resolution on Tuesday. 

 The party said its main task was to defeat BJP and its allies, but added that “this has to be done without having an understanding or electoral alliance with the Congress party”. CPI, also scheduled to hold its party congress in April, has decided to disagree with CPM’s position on political alliances, TOI has learnt. 
 
 While CPM has ruled out any truck with Congress, CPI’s draft resolution will advocate “the broadest possible secular front”, of which Congress will be a part. The CPI resolution is expected to clarify that electoral alliances, when they are needed, will be decided on the basis of the political situation in a particular state. 
 
 Sources said CPI was of the opinion that while Left unity was sacrosanct and must be preserved, prevailing political conditions mandated that the Left focus on curtailing the rise of “communal, fascist forces”, for which wider unity of all secular, democratic and non-BJP forces was necessary. 
 
 Congress, being the largest opposition party, could not be kept out of this alliance, CPI believes. While ruling out any understanding or electoral alliance with Congress, CPM’s contradiction-ridden draft resolution had also said BJP, because it was in power, was the bigger threat. 
 
 “So, there cannot be a line of treating both BJP and Congress as equal dangers. Our approach should be to cooperate with Congress and other secular opposition parties in Parliament on agreed issues. Outside Parliament, we should cooperate with all secular opposition forces for a broad mobilisation of people against the communal threat,” it said. 
 
 The draft resolution said, “Given the serious challenge posed by Hindutva forces, it is essential to build platforms for the widest mobilisation of all secular and democratic forces. The emphasis should be on building unity of people to fight communal forces at the grassroots. These are not to be seen as political or electoral alliances.”
