HYDERABAD: Demanding that   authorities reopen the   that has been closed for civilians for the past one year, close to 200 locals including school children, staged a protest at the   (Officers) Quarters near Trimulgherry X Roads in the Secunderabad Cantonment on Monday.

 
 To reinforce their point, protesters said how travelling through the alternate road, which leads to Holy Family High School from Lal Bazaar, has turned into a nightmare lately — especially during school hours — owing to increasing load of traffic. This, they added has not only led to severe congestion, but also made commuting along the stretch unsafe for motorists and commuters.
 
  
  
 “More than 2,000 people use this narrow alternate road during school hours. Not surprisingly, it is mostly chock-ablock with traffic as it is used by students of two schools and one college located in the vicinity. Opening the Golden Palm Road will ease this traffic and make community easier,” said M Krishank, a protesters.
 
 The agitating residents added how the heavy flow of traffic has led a lot sharp rise in count of accidents on this alternative road, with some of them being fatal.
 
 “Lot of my students take the said road to reach school; but I am worried as it has become very dangerous to travel via this road these days. In fact, keeping their safety in mind, we had earlier requested Army officials to at least let students use the Golden Palm Fafa Road, after checking their identity cards, but they were reluctant to oblige. Now that the defence ministry has issued an order asking all Army roads to be opened for public use, the Army must respect it and do the same,” said Father Anthony Sagairaja, principal, St Joseph school.
 
 Joining hands with them, residents, registered under the Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad, took a dig at a social media campaign, allegedly started by armed force personnels, against the opening of roads in the cantonment area. “We welcome and support the decision of Raksha Mantri to reopen the roads and condemn the acrimonious and strong language being used against civilians, politicians, and administration on social media and other platforms by those opposing reopening of unlawfully closed roads. The   that citizens are guaranteed by the Constitution and by human ethics, must not be arbitrarily curtailed. Misinformation floated and sustained in order to somehow keep roads closed is not in anyone's interest,” said C S   and added that reconsidering the decision would affect lakhs of citizens.
 
 Despite the public outcry, senior Army officials said that reopening of roads for civilians would result in compromising on the security of the “sensitive zone”.
 
 “We are glad that the ministry has agreed to reconsider its decision and we are certain that within the next few days, the order will be rolled back. It is in national interest that these roads remain inaccessible to public,” said a senior Army official.
 
 
