JAIPUR: Even after a decade has passed, the families of the victims of the Jaipur serial blasts that had claimed 71 lives are awaiting justice. Many injured who are left with pallet injuries are hoping to get justice. Though much was said by the state government varying from setting up special courts to ensure speedy trials and even ATS was formed three key conspirators are yet to be quizzed by the Rajasthan ATS. 

 Accused identified as Mohammed Aariz alias  , an alleged Indian Mujahideen member involved in the July 2008 Ahmedabad serial blasts and Jaipur serial blasts, was nabbed by Delhi police in February this year. Similarly, Asadullah Akhtar and   were already arrested and are lodged at   since 2014. 
 
 
  
 
 On the progress of the case so far, Biju George Joseph, Inspector General of police, ATS, talking to TOI on Saturday, said, “All these three accused who are the key conspirators in the Jaipur serial blasts who arranged for the bi-cycles and raw material for bombs are presently at Delhi’s Tihar jail for Delhi blast that took place on September, 13, 2008. The court has said after trial of this case would be completed they can be taken to other states including Rajasthan for respective serial blast cases.” 
 
 “Yasin Bhatkal is the key conspirator and executioner who recruited and brought youths who planted RDX laced bicycles in the walled city,” he added.
 
 Joseph further said that others including –Shahbaz Hussain, Mohammed Sarwar Aazmi, Saifur-Rehman and Salman are already in Jaipur central jail while one Mohammed Saif is at   jail. 
 
 He added that in two of the FIRs the trial is in advance stage and it is 75 percent completed while the trial for rest of the cases is undergoing. 
 
 A few times the counsels for the accused had approached the courts to have joint trial of all these cases since it is a similar crime having similar witnesses, Rajasthan High court in 2014 had rejected the plea. “For the initial years upto 2014 the trial could begin in only 2 cases of blasts in Jaipur. Now the trial is on. However, it becomes difficult when the accused including 3 in Tihar Jail and one at Sabarmati jail are sought by the court,” said a senior officer of ATS. 
 
 Aariz was instrumental in planting of the bombs along with Atif Amin and others who had come from Delhi for the task. Aariz left for Delhi by train with other members after planting the bombs, with tickets booked on fake names,” added a crime branch official investigating the serial blasts case. 
 
 Asadullah Akhtar and Yasin Bhatkal were caught was caught by the Delhi ATS.
 
 Amid unfulfilled promises made by the government to set up special courts and ensure speedy trial to prosecute the five accused arrested in connection with the serial blasts, the trial continues to drag on. 
 
 The investigation into the case is also yet to come to an end. 
 
 The ATS officials said that four accused are still absconding, and in all likelihood, they've fled the country. Officials said that Sajid Bada, Mohammed Khalid, Aariz alias Zunaid and Sadab alias Malik, all residents of Azamgarh, are on their list of terrorists wanted in connection with Jaipur serial blasts. 
 
 Alok Tripathi, ADG, ATS, said the search for the absconding terror suspects is on. "At some point in our investigation, there were clues that these four men may have fled the country. Their current whereabouts are unknown. They may have taken shelter outside India," said Tripathi. 
 
 Though the special court was established at Bani Park District Court's Complex in December 2009 and a presiding officer was appointed, it took several months for it to start functioning. 
 
 Sources said that ensuring security while the terror suspects are transported to the court from various cities in the country for hearings in their cases is proving a major headache for the police and security agencies.
 
 
