TIRUVANNAMALAI: A surprise check carried out by a National Inspection and Monitoring Committee (NIMC) team in Sri Bhuvaneswari Hospital in   busted a well-knitted sex determination and illegal   racket. The team sealed the hospital and three scan centres for indulging in the determination of sex of the fetus and abortion of fetuses. 

 The illegal activities had taken place in the hospital for a decade.
 
 Health department officials filed a case against Dr Selvampaal for indulging in medical termination of the fetuses. The records and a cache of ultrasound scan reports of 18 to 30 weeks pregnancy divulged that she had been indulging in the illegal act.
 
 Dr Selvampaal was not qualified to carry out the medical termination of pregnancy nor the hospital was a recognised centre to carry out abortions, said the authorities.
 
  “We found heaps of records from 2004 and close to 50 ultrasound scan reports in the hospital. It corroborated evidence proved that sex-selected abortions have been carried out in the hospital for over a decade,” said a member of the NIMC team, which was constituted under the provisions of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act 1994.
 
 On being questioned by the NIMC team on Wednesday, Dr Selvampaal confessed to the ill-practice, said the official. 
 
 The team was led by Ajay Kumar, undersecretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India. Additional director of Medical and Rural Health Services (MRHS), Chennai, Dr Rukhmani and her team accompanied the NIMC team during the raids.
 
 The officials have contacted at least 10 people who had undergone sex-selection abortions in the hospital in the recent past. “We carried out the surprise check based on some intelligence collected from reliable sources,” he further said.
 
 Based on the ultrasound scan reports and confession of Dr Selvampaal, the team raided three scan centres - Sri Ramana Scan Centre, Deepam Hi-Tech Scans, and Shiva Scans – in Sannathi Street in the town. 
 
 “It is mandated to maintain the records of the persons (prenatal mother) took the scan, Form F and referral letters. But none of the three centres maintained proper records and its clear violation,” said joint director of MRHS (in-charge) of Tiruvannamalai Dr Pandian.
 
 Following direction from district collector K S Kandasamy, the team sealed the hospital and the scan centres.
 
 They have also lodged a complaint with the Tiruvannamalai   against the doctor. The doctor went absconding after the raid. The police would invoke the provisions of Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act against her, said the police official.
 
 It may be recalled that the health department raided an illegal scan centre run by one Thilagavathi (alias) Anandhi, 49, in her three-storey house in Senguttuvan Street in Tiruvananmalai in August 2016. Officials closed down the centre and rescued eight girls who were waiting for their rounds of illegal abortion. 
 
 
