PUNE: The information technology (IT) department is eyeing more kits to improve the   enrolment coverage in schools and anganwadis across the state. 

 So far, Maharashtra has seen 42.30% Aadhaar enrolment of children aged under 5 years 75% in the 5-18-year age group. In Pune city, Aadhaar enrolment is below 50% for children below 5 years and is about 80% in the age group of 5-18 years. In comparison, the city has seen an above 90% coverage among the adults. 
 
 
  
 
 State IT secretary   on Thursday said more Aadhaar kits will be in place through zilla parishad and private schools to ensure every child in anganwadis and schools have Aadhaar cards. 
 
 “The aim is to improve the enrolment figure. Machines required for this will be procured from each district and additional kits will be provided to reach out to the children,” he said. 
 
 Pune city nodal officer   said the district was initially allotted 216 machines, but several kits were not operational. “We finally sent 146 machines to various ward offices, post-offices, BSNL offices and banks for enrolment ahead of the March 31 deadline for linking Aadhaar numbers with various services. We have sought 100   to cover the schools,” he said.
 
 Most schools have already urged the children to get their Aadhaar numbers. “Though it is not mandatory, we have asked the students with Aadhaar cards to update the details with us,” an official with a city school said.
 
 A parent, who has just shifted base from Singapore to Pune, wants to ensure that her 3-year-old son has the Aadhaar card. She said, “We are not sure if the school admission process will require Aadhaar. But we do not want to take a chance.” 
 
 For children aged less than 5, the parents need to fill the Aadhaar enrolment form and submit it, along with the photocopy of child’s birth certificate and their own Aadhaar card. No biometrics will be recorded for such children. The applicant will have to update the Aadhaar once he/she turns 5 and 15. 
 
 In case a child is aged above 5, the enrolment form has to be filled and submitted, along with his or her birth certificate and the parents’ Aadhaar card. Biometric data such as the child’s fingerprints, iris and photographs of the face will be registered at the time of the enrolment. This procedure will be repeated when the child turns 15.
 
 The state government had in 2015 issued a circular directing the education department to ensure that every school student in Maharashtra registers for Aadhaar card. The government had then instructed instructions to district authorities and education officials that by June 26 the 'School Students Aadhaar Card Campaign' must be completed. 
 
 The Aadhaar card number will be linked with students' admission registration number to facilitate tracking of the child in the education system. 
 
 The government had then clarified this was being done to ensure the Right to Education Act (RTE) was implemented properly. 
 
 
