NEW DELHI:   was engaged in a sensational and high-profile kidnapping and ransom case on the very first day of 2018. Cops relied on advanced technical surveillance and analysis to zero down on the suspects and crack open the case.

 Though first-timers, the suspects had shown the shrewdness of  . They made around 45 ransom calls in a span of 90 hours from 30 different locations in Delhi-NCR and still managed to remain elusive to authorities.
 
 None of their calls lasted beyond a minute, as they suspected that the call and their location were being traced. Mastermind Rahul did not even speak to the victim to mask his identity.
 
  
 At times, cops came close to tracing them, but did not approach to ensure the safety of the victim. The breakthrough, however, came after prime suspect’s movements coincided with that of the victims, days before the operation. This was when Rahul was conducting a recce of the timings and the route taken by victim from office to home.
 
 Explaining the operation, a source said that there were nearly 120 cops involved in the entire operation. Nobody, however, knew the details of the case and was briefed on a need-to-know basis.
 
 A source identified two people travelling on that same route as the victim. One of them turned out to be an ex-employee. The sensitivity of the case could be imagined by the fact that the local police of south Delhi was not even informed about the incident and the Crime Branch was roped in from the beginning.
 
 Sources said that the family had informed their relative, a top IPS officer in Rajasthan Police, who in turn informed police commissioner  . The special cell, obvious choice to crack such cases, was not roped in as they were busy with the Republic Day security. The cell, however, provided crucial technical inputs.
 
 The operation was carried out by joint commissioner Alok Kumar and DCP (crime) Joy Tirkey. For the raids, trail and surveillance on suspects, 15-20 member teams were formed. Three ACPs were assigned to monitor developments in eight-hour shifts as kidnappers would call at random hours. For three days, negotiations were carried out to engage with the kidnappers as cops developed leads in the backdrop.
 
 However, this case, coupled with the high profile kidnapping cases reported in 2017, has again highlighted the need to have a dedicated cell which would deal only with kidnapping cases. In almost all kidnapping cases reported in the last one or two years, cops have been visibly helpless. In 2017’s Ola kidnapping case, the abductors took the police on a wild goose chase for nearly 13 days.
 
 
