GURUGRAM: The municipal corporation seems to have failed to keep its own ‘house’ clean at a time when the city is gearing up for the upcoming Swachh Survekshan and hoping to move up the ranking table.

 Repeated complaints about an unclean toilet at John Hall marred the MCG’s House proceedings on Monday. According to the councillors, there are only two common toilets at the Civil Lines-based government hall, where MCG meetings are held. But one of them is not clean enough and does not have a lock and running water. As a result, all the MCG officials and councillors are forced to share the one, which is comparatively better, during their meetings. 
 
 The issue was first raised by women councillors Seema Pahuja of ward No. 15 and Aarti Yadav of ward No. 32 in the morning. The matter popped up several times during the four-hour-long meeting that continued till 3pm.
 
 “There are so many women councillors in the House this time. Hence, it becomes all the more important to have fully functional toilets with running water and proper locks,” Pahuja said even as other members extended their support.
 
 She added that the said toilet was completely damaged when the House had met on November 27. Though it has been repaired, it isn’t really useful for women. Aarti echoed Pahuja and said, “Before we talk about the city’s toilets, MCG must ensure that the one at John Hall is properly functional.” 
 
 Even male councillors raised the issue and demanded immediate action. 
 
 However, joint commissioner Y S Gupta pointed out that the toilet did not come under the MCG’s jurisdiction but promised to take up the matter with the authorities concerned.
 
 Sources said the toilet at John Hall was not an exception. Earlier, there had been complaints about lack of cleanliness in toilets at Mini Secretariat and Traffic Tower in Sushant Lok-1.
 
 During the meeting, some councillors also raised the issue of Sulabh toilets, which are in a shambles due to lack of maintenance and sanitation. “The Sulabh toilets built across the city are of extremely inferior quality; many of them have been shut down,” said ward 19 councillor Ashwani Sharma. 
 
 However, the joint commissioner, in his reply, said they had started work around two weeks ago to reopen the closed toilets following complaints. “We have reopened all the closed toilets and also taking up repair work wherever required,” said Gupta. He also suggested that the councillors could do a survey of community toilets in their areas along with MCG officials and submit their feedback.
 
 
