JAIPUR: With an eye on the upcoming assembly polls and the administration becoming more sensitive, the state food and civil supplies department has issued a circular facilitating poor people to get food article under the Food Security Act.

 The department said, it has launched   portability at the district level and thereby a cardholder could obtain food article from any of the ration shops in the district.
 
 Besides, if the ration card is not Aadhaar seeded, the individual could obtain ration through a onetime password (OTP) on his mobile number registered with   card or through a bypass system approved from an empowered officer.
 
 The circular issued by the secretary of food and civil supplies Mudgha Sinha asked the district supply officers to give wide publicity to these provisions to inform the beneficiaries as well as the ration dealers.
 
 The circular said, if the beneficiary due to any reason had gone out of his native place and could not avail ration from the registered fair price shop, he could go to any of the fair price shops in the district and get his food articles from that shop.
 
 To enjoy this benefit along with your ration card, registration of the Aadhaar card would be helpful. In case of no Aadhaar card, even then the beneficiary could enjoy the facility of ration card portability.
 
 “In case of no Aadhaar card and the POS (point of sale) machine do not accept your finger print of the beneficiary, ration dealer could get a onetime password (OTP) on the registered mobile number with the Bhamashah card to ensure identification and get the benefits,” the circular said
 
 If there is no mobile number registered with the Bhamashah card, a onetime verification of the certificate issue under the   to the empowered officers would ensure that the beneficiary would continue to enjoy the benefit.
 
 The circular said it has come to the notice that due to lack of awareness, ration dealers do not provide the facility of portability to the beneficiaries and sent them back empty handed. The circular directed officials to give wide publicity to the people during the ‘Nayay Apke Dwar’ campaign kicked off from May 1 to June 30. 
 
 
