AHMEDABAD: The cyber cell sleuths of the city crime branch on Sunday arrested a 21-year-old man from   who had allegedly posted offensive comments about the   community’s gods that had triggered massive unrest in the port town of   on May 1. The accused, Pradeepsinh Sodha, had first posted the messages on a social media platform by creating a fake profile in the name of “Royal Sarkar”. 

 He had posted comments about   and Dhani Matang who are revered by the community. On Sunday, Gandhidham remained tense throughout the day after Sodha’s arrest and additional police teams were deployed to maintain law and order.
 
 Rajdeepsinh Jhala, additional deputy commissioner of police, crime branch, said that Sodha had cleverly picked up profile pictures and cellphone numbers of Maheshwari community members who had responded to his offensive posts. He then created fake profiles based on the details of the community members who had responded to him and posted offensive messages from these fake accounts. “This had incensed the Maheshwari community in Gandhidham,” Jhala said. “Some of them had called the numbers that Sodha had posted on the fake profiles. The numbers turned out to be those of fellow Maheshwaris. We have found seven such chains of fake social media accounts created by Sodha on social media.”
 
 As for Sodha’s motive, cyber cell sources said that about a fortnight ago, he had a dispute with a Dalit man on social media about the arrest of Divyrajsinh Jadeja in a case of atrocity. This had enraged Sodha, and he created the “Royal Sarkar” profile to post about the Maheshwari community. Jhala said that the police have Sodha’s custody for six days. “We still have to dig up other fake accounts he has created. He will be kept in Gandhidham throughout the remand period with our team camping there,” Jhala said.
 
 After the complaint was lodged with A-division police station in Gandhidham on May 1, the investigation was transferred to Ahmedabad crime branch’s cyber cell on May 10.
 
  Jhala said it was not easy to trace the Sodha. “We had to obtain data from three social media service engines to track and verify the IP address of the cellphone from which the posts and profiles were created,” Jhala said.
 
 
