VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city is growing increasingly vulnerable to fire mishaps, thanks to a short-staffed fire department.

 A perceived inability of the department in dealing with fire outbreaks and the growing number of accidental industrial fires are now a cause of alarm for the millions of residents of the city.
 
 The city is witnessing fire accidents at industrial areas like Gajuwaka, Parawada, Malkapuram, Kurmannapalem, Sriharipuram, Pedagantyada and others. Adding fuel to the fire, the fire department is now fighting fire accidents on hills surrounding the city too.
 
 At present, only 25 firemen are on duty in the city and at any given time, some of them are either on leave or are undergoing training. Around 25 firemen have to safeguard 22 lakh people in the city at any given time, say officials. 
 
 The city has only four fire stations - Visakhapatnam, Marripalem, Pedagantyada and Chittivalasa - with a shortage of manpower to address fire accidents in a city that is spread across an extent of more than 750 square kilometres with a population of over 22 lakh.
 
 As per fire safety norms, there should be a fire station for each 50,000 population. That means,   city should have 44 fire stations, but it has only four, that too with an insufficient staff. Even if the number of fire stations was 10, it would have proved to be helpful for the department in handling fire outbreaks efficiently, an officer said requesting not to be named.
 
 The sanctioned strength of the four city fire stations is 130 men but only 76 personnel are on duty. Of these, there are only 39 firemen (who are key to fighting fires) as against the sanctioned strength of 84. The fireman is the main person in dousing the fire and in conducting rescue operations, say sources. 
 
 “We have been facing a severe shortage of men in addressing the fire accidents. In the recent scenario, a majority of the staff are engaged in VVIP visits which have increased in the city for the past three to four years. How can we manage?” asks another officer of the department.
 
 District   BVS Ram Prasad told TOI that his men are addressing each and every call efficiently but refused to comment on the shortage of manpower. “We have brought the Autonagar fire station in working condition. Our men are ready for 24/7 duty. However, addressing fires on hills has become a difficult task for us as there is no water on the hills and the reach of the pumps to the hilltop is a problem. We are using beaters to douse the fire,” he said.
 
 
