CHANDIGARH:   can expect   in the   as the   is facing acute   throughout the year.

 The projected annual average peak demand for the year 2018-19 is 496 megawatt (MW), while the amount available is 366 MW. Peak hour is a period in which the consumer demand is highest. The gap between the projected peak power and available power reaches maximum during the summer season.
 
 As per the official figures of the department, the peak demand in the month of April is 338 MW, while the power available during the period is 226 MW. Similarly, in May, the department would have 283 MW of power against the projected peak demand of 461 MW with a shortfall of 178 MW which is the highest in the year. In June, the power available during peak hours is 366 MW against the projected demand of 489 MW. In July, 338 MW power would be available against the peak demand of 466 MW. The second highest gap that is of 143 MW is in the month of September. The available power is 294 MW against projected peak demand of 437 MW.
 
 Power demand has steadily risen in the last few years and the non-availability of additional supplies has pushed the peak-hour deficit.
 
 Chandigarh electricity department caters to more than 2 lakh consumers of nine categories with an annual energy consumption of around 1,600 million units (MU). The majority of power is consumed by domestic consumers followed by commercial category. Both the categories together consume around 70% of the energy, while large supply consumes around 10 percent of the energy. Remaining 20 percent is shared among categories namely small power, medium supply, bulk supply and others.
 
 The non-declaration of the actual load hampers planning of the department, and this leads to peak power deficit. This also leads to problem transformers getting overloaded. A powergrid study had revealed that more than 95% suffered frequent breakdowns due to overloading.
 
 Chandigarh does not have its own power plant. It buys power from central generating stations such as Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited, National Thermal Power Corporation Limited, Bhakra Beas Management Board, National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC) and Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam (SJVN). Power allocation from each station is fixed for one year, while the deficit is met through an unallocated quota and short-term power purchase.
 
 As per the load forecasting study for long term power planning, the department will have to draw a plan to meet the power deficit. The study has suggested that the pending power requirement can be sourced from long term power purchase agreements and other bilateral agreements.
 
