AHMEDABAD: The urban tree count — or the survey for the ‘Status of Tree Cover in Urban Areas of Gujarat’ — was last conducted in 2011 and was due again in 2016, but hasn’t been carried out yet. Urban bodies, which are partners in the tree counting exercise for their areas, have backed out. The count will now be taken up by the   Ecological Education and Research Foundation ( ).

 GEER foundation director R D Khambhoj said, “We have taken up the count and have already requisitioned the satellite imagery. “Once we get it, we will move to the physical count,” he said. The cost of this exercise will be borne by GEER.
 
 Officials in the forest department said municipal corporations and urban authorities are reluctant to participate.
 
 Tree counts for rural areas of Gujarat — outside notified forests — were done in 2003, 2008 and 2012. 
 
 The first tree count for areas under municipal corporations and municipalities was done in 2011, by the social forestry wing of the forest department, with help from local organizations. 
 
 Social forestry officials said their workers faced many problems in urban areas in 2011. For instance, at many residential societies, volunteers were not allowed to enter to measure the girth of trees. Volunteers also did not have access to certain areas and a precise tree count could hence not be achieved, the officials said.
 
 For the urban tree count this year, social forestry officials have written to the research wing of the forest department. 
 
 “As trees in cities are scattered, they will be easy to count. The challenge will be in urban forest patches,” said a forest department official. “In Ahmedabad, green patches like in the cantonment and at ATIRA will be difficult to count and physical counts will be needed,” he said.
 
 Another officer, associated with the research wing, said there are formulas to estimate the tree count of green patches within a 5% to 10% error. The officer said that in 2011, a tree count was done using remote sensing data in  , where 3,075ha was found have 8.67 lakh trees.
 
 Forest officials said the urban tree count will begin once final approval is received from the government. Officials said it likley that trees in forest patches will be counted manually while GPS is used to count isolated trees.
 
 
