

 KOLKATA: For those not conversant with the sport of thoroughbred racing in this country, the Indian Turf Invitation Cup is the ultimate prize that any racehorse owner would want to make his own. It is very much the pièce de résistance of the racing calendar. This year, on the first Sunday of March, it was the turn of the   to host this glamorous event.
 
 This annual racing extravaganza, run over the traditional Derby-distance of 2,400 metres, is held in the five major racing centres of the country — Mumbai, Bangalore, Kolkata, Hyderabad and Chennai — by rotation. And the starting line-up is always the crème de la crème of the country’s racing stock.
 
 The Invitation Cup always brings to mind the best of Indian racing. Whereas the New Year’s Day races at the Royal Calcutta Turf Club have always been an event that socialites are keen to attend, the prestigious Indian Turf Invitation Cup sees visitors and dignitaries from all over the country coming together to witness the equine beauties that grace the turf every five years. Among the elite guests on Sunday were the members of the celebrated Mahindra and Poonawalla families. Rather aptly, the winner of the Invitation Cup was Kangra, owned by Rina and  .
 
 There was an air of festivity on the grounds of RCTC, which was further boosted by the two buffets on the sprawling lawn on Friday and Saturday evening.
 
 The jubilant guests from all corners of the country lapped up the carnival-like atmosphere. Former champion trainer from Bengaluru, Sidney Moses, said that he found the warmth and hospitality of this metropolis unparalleled.
 
 Though the mercury had shot up in the past week or so, this year’s mega event witnessed an attendance of almost 10,000 on Sunday.
 
 “Though there were no big-ticket celebrities in attendance, the crowd was colourful and really enjoyed themselves. Barring the nasty mishap in the main event, which saw a horse being badly injured, it turned out to be a highly successful weekend. What added to their merry-making was that seven favourites obliged in a card of nine races on Sunday,” said RCTC secretary  .
 
 The tote collection at the event was nearly Rs 1 crore.
 
