KOLKATA: A 70-year-old woman returning home from the local laughing club with her friend on Monday morning was run over by a middle-aged woman learning to drive. Witnesses said the accused had reportedly been asked by her trainer to apply brakes after she had lost control of the car and hit a tree. However, the woman mistakenly pressed the accelerator, leading to the accident. 

 Victim   was an avid marathon runner who lived on   in Garfa. She was declared brought dead at Ruby Hospital, barely 400m from the accident spot. Her friend Shefali Das, too, suffered injuries. She had initially returned home, but had to be admitted in   after she started vomiting. The incident was reported from P Majumdar Road at Kasba around 8.20am. The accused, Kasba resident  , 39, was arrested and the case transferred to the Fatal Squad of traffic police for further investigation. The car — a golden Swift — has been seized.
 
 According to  , a witness, the car had just taken a right towards the P Mukherjee Road culvert from a bylane, and Sarkar and Das were walking along an opposite lane. “The car grazed a tree and tried to swerve away, ending up hitting the two women. It seemed the driver tried to accelerate even as her instructor kept screaming for her to apply the brakes. It looked like she got confused. The locals stopped her and asked for the car keys so they could take Sarkar to the hospital. Roy allegedly refused and some youths forcibly took away the keys and drove the bleeding victim to Ruby Hospital,” said Mukherjee. 
 
 Alo and Ashish, the victim’s children said they were informed by locals about the accident. Ashish said the family was told Sarkar had fallen down after being hit. “But instead of braking, the woman accelerated and went over her body. There is a school nearby and there was no learner’s board on the car. I doubt if she had a learner’s licence. It was an accident waiting to happen,” he said. 
 
 Locals said they had warned Roy not to learn driving on the narrow road and get herself enrolled at a driving school. However, Roy claimed she had a licence, but was driving after 10 years. Her instructor in the car was actually the family chauffeur.
 
 
