JAIPUR: The city police arrested two illegal arms suppliers and seized two pistols from them after a night long search in   area of the city on Friday.

 Deputy commissioner of police ( ) Ashok Gupta told TOI that a sustained search and checking operation was launched following multiple intelligence inputs indicating movements of unidentified gangs supplying illegal arms in the Western zone of the city.
 
 “As suspected SUV with registration number RJ-14-UD-O535 came on our radar. Search teams fanned out across the city and check points were set-up in entire Jhotwara circle. The vehicle was finally intercepted at Khirni Nagar railway crossing,” Gupta said.
 
 The Jhotwara police identified the accused as Manoj Meena (30)a notified history sheeter of Chomu police station and Makkhan Saini (30) were arrested by the police.
 
 The police teams searched the SUV and recovered two illegal weapons from the vehicle was carefully kept hidden in order to avoid the police’s vigil.
 
 The police teams seized the SUV and weapons and took Meena and Saini to the Jhotwara police station. “The duo was arrested under multiple sections of the IPC and arms act. Meena hails from Chomu and was found to be involved in several offences due to which he was declared as history by Chomu police,” said an official of Jhotwara police.
 
 According to DCP Gupta, the duo admitted to have brought weapons from Bikaner and New Delhi to Jaipur. “They told us that these illegal weapons were purchased from different locations. We are interrogating him to check whom they were planning to supply it,” the official said.
 
 The sources, however, told TOI that sustained interrogation has hinted duo’s ties with an organized criminal gang. “Meena is not a small time criminal; he was arrested in heinous offences ranging from murder to theft. In fact, had recently got out on bail,” an official said, adding that the police are investigating the matter as the duo is suspected to be part of an inter-state gang operating in the state.
 
 “We are keeping an eye on their contacts, we hope to unearth gangs involved in the supply of illegal arms,” the official said.
 
 
