PATNA: Chief minister   on Wednesday pitched for separate reservation for the EBCs (extremely backward classes) in the central government’s appointments as well as admissions in central education institutions on the line of   government’s   formula.

 The Centre currently provides 27% reservation to OBCs (other backward classes), which include all castes in backward classes. The Bihar government, on the other hand, provides 12% reservation to backward classes, 18% to EBCs and 3% to backward women. 
 
 Separate quota for the EBCs was introduced in the late 1970s by then Bihar CM Karpoori  . 
 
 Addressing a function organised by the JD (U)’s   cell to commemorate the former CM’s birth anniversary, Nitish said the Centre should also work out a formula to provide separate percentage of reservation to the EBCs
 
 Nitish also demanded the highest civilian award ‘Bharat Ratna’ for Thakur. “We have written to the Centre in the past and will soon write a fresh letter to the Union government for this,” he said. 
 
 Recalling Karpoori’s contributions in the development and empowerment of backward classes, Nitish said the report of  , which had recommended reservation for backward classes in Bihar, was submitted during the regime of Karpoori’s predecessor. “It was   who implemented it,” he said.
 
 Without naming then CM Lalu Prasad, Nitish said an abortive bid was made in June 1993 by the then state government to dilute the Karpoori formula and merge the quota of EBCs with that of the backward classes. “I had then vehemently opposed the decision of my own   Dal government and threatened a stir against any change in the Karpoori formula,” Nitish said amid applause form the audience, mainly the members from EBCs. 
 
 Govt not to oppose bail
 
 Patna: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said the state government would not oppose the petitions of bail filed by those accused of stoning the CM’s convoy in Nandan village of   district recently. Several security personnel were injured in the attack on the CM’s ‘Vikas Sameeksha Yatra’ cavalcade in the village.
 
 
