Tamil Nadu revenue and disaster management principal secretary   will on Thursday begin a probe into the Kurangani forest fire which claimed the lives of 17 trekkers.

 Officials said Misra will leave for Madurai on Wednesday and reach Theni from there in the evening. Early on Thursday morning, a team led by him will depart from the Kurangani foothills and reach the spot where the trekkers were charred to death in the fire. Misra will be accompanied by forest officials from Chennai and Theni.
 
 
  
 
 He is also planning to visit the Kozhukkumalai tea estate in   from where one group of trekkers descended. Members of the group came to the estate from Suryanelli in Munnar and were engulfed by the fire while descending the slopes. Misra will also visit Top Station in Munnar to inspect the trekking path there.
 
 The probe will help in regulating and formulating new guidelines for organising trekking trips in forests, especially during the dry season. It will also regulate trek operators who are not registered with any government body.
 
 While chief minister E K Palaniswami’s statement in the assembly on Monday contradicted the FSI claim that it alerted the state forest department, principal chief conservator of forests and head of the forest department H   said on March 11, when the fire broke out, the state nodal officer and chief conservator of forests (IT) M Jayanthi received alerts only at 11.46pm.
 
 She immediately put it in the official WhatsApp group. The assistant conservator Mahendran also received the alert but at 00.45am on Monday. A study by the forest department has shown that Agamalai West, Periathukombai, Oothamparai and Ulakkaruthiar in the   hills are among the areas where fires take place every dry season. Trekking to these areas has to be avoided during this period, said a senior official from the forest department.
 
 The outcome of the investigation will also help redesign the eco-tourism policy of the state which was prepared more than six years ago. The involvement of tribals and people living in the foothills will be considered to help improve their livelihoods. These issues will be incorporated into the policy, the official said.
 
