AHMEDABAD: He had described himself as one of the last of his generation while paying homage to fellow humourist   last year, and truly, Vinod Bhatt, 80, represented his generation of Gujarati humourists like few others did. Bhatt passed away at his residence on Wednesday morning. In accordance with his last wish, his body was donated for medical research, his family members said. Dignitaries including   chief minister Vijay Rupani offered condolences and large group of literati reached his residence in   to pay homage.

 Mona Bhatt, Bhatt’s daughter, said that he had been unwell since December 2017 with kidney-related problems. “The demise of my mother Nalini on January 29 this year left him in deep grief and shock,” she said. “Ever since her death, papa had gone into seclusion. Over the past few weeks, he had refused to eat and to take phone calls.”
 
 Bhatt was born in 1938 at   near   in Gandhinagar district. He worked as a tax consultant while continuing his passion for writing. He was the president of the Gujarati Sahitya Parishad from 1996 to 1997. He had authored over 45 books that cover humour, satire, biography, and literary criticism. He also compiled works of fellow Gujarati writers. Bhatt also wrote in Hindi. Some of his best known works include “Idam Tritiyam”, “Naro Va Kunjro Va”, “Vinod ni Najare”, “Shreshth Hasyarachanao”. Bhatt was the recipient of Kumar Chandrak in 1976, Ranjitram Suvarna Chandrak in 1989, and Ramanlal Nilkanth Hasya Paritoshik and Jyotindra Dave Hasya Paritoshik in 2016.
 
 Rupani expressed his grief over Bhatt’s demise saying that Bhatt will be remembered for his satire-laced writings. “His death has left a vacuum in the Gujarati literary world,” he said. Sitanshu Yashaschandra, the president of the parishad, said that the literary academy was deeply saddened by Bhatt’s demise. He said that the academy would organize a meeting in his remembrance. 
 
 Bhagyesh  , the former chairman of the Gujarat Sahitya Akademi, remembered the humourist as a close friend. “I used to talk to him every morning for the past three-and-a-half years. Each morning, we sat in his verandah and had bhajiyas,” said Jha. “His spontaneity and humour were unparalleled. Once while in the US, I had called him to ask where I could find his book, “Moongi Naar” meaning ‘silent wife’. He responded by saying, ‘You won’t find a moongi naar in the entire universe or even in a book’.”
 
 Ratilal Borisagar, a fellow humourist, said that he had known Bhatt since 1975. “His humility was something that I adored deeply. In the world of Gujarati literary humourists, his name would perhaps follow the likes of Jyotindra Dave and Bakul Tripathi,” he said. “This is because he never shadowed someone else’s style of writing and developed his own style.”
 
 
