Kochi Metro’s request for 2.5 cents of the Maharaja’s College ground for setting up a parking space raised many eyebrows within the college, and the students tried all means to hold on to their very own space, which dates to more than 100 years. Their resolve and efforts have now delivered sweet rewards, as the students have got assurances from powers that be that what is theirs will remain theirs.

 Given that   Rail Limited had already acquired a portion of the hockey ground, which comes to 14.5 cents, and construction materials have been piled up in around 40.5 cents, the students say that the damage is half done. Harikrishnan MS, a second year student from the department of history, points out that the hockey team is the worst hit because of these developments. “Our hockey team are the winners in the MG University. But the players are now left with no proper ground to practise. I think it would affect their performance in the long run.” He adds that their key players now practise elsewhere. 
 
 Echoing similar concerns is third year history student Shaz C Faizal, who points out that the college is known for its achievements in arts and sports. “We have not been able to effectively use the spaces, which are actually intended for our use,” he says.
 
 The struggle has been on for a while, according to Anju Mary Joseph, an alumnus. “We had to make a lot of sacrifices for the sake of the Metro. Allocating a few areas to keep the construction materials of the agency in charge of the metro work spoiled the green atmosphere of the college.” The haphazard way in which materials were kept even caused a few accidents, according to her.
 
 No private college’s space is invaded, while it is only government colleges like theirs that fall prey to such demands, says George, another student. “If you look at the people who lived in the city years ago, one can find out that all of them have now shifted their homes to the outskirts. By trying to turn the city into an industrial hub, we are actually compromising on the need to preserve its green cover.”
 
 Anju concludes that she has always taken pride in being a student of the college. “I am so much attached to the institution that I want my kids also to be part of the same place. That said, I am scared that the character of the college will not be the same a few years later.”
 
