PUNE: On the roads, a stray dog’s bark is as bad as its bite and citizens are petrified of the packs roaming the streets.

 
  
  
 Complaints have been pouring in from several areas about aggressive stray dogs chasing bikes and cars, causing accidents and aggrieved persons are seeking harsh action. 
 
 However, animal lovers said dog bites, if compared to the number of strays, are a small number and one-off incidents of man-animal conflict. They said sterilisation is the way to go and removing strays from their area is not the solution.
 
 Ashok Purandare, a Salisbury Park area resident, said, “Despite numerous requests, no action seems to have been initiated against stray dogs who mess up the garbage dumped along the streets and chase and scare pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. The menace extends all over Salisbury Park and adjoining areas right. There needs to be sustained action over some time.”
 
 S Nair, another resident, wrote about relocating the dogs. “Anyone out for a casual walk on Boat Club road knows that he should take a detour or turn back before reaching the pavement outside   where a homeless person has taken up residence along with 26 strays. The dogs scare children and walkers. A medical evaluation plus relocation to a safe home is long overdue,” Nair said.
 
  from Tingrenagar said stray dogs are generally found around garbage. “The burning and dumping of garbage by PMC staff at the dead end of lane No. 10 has caused an increase in the number of stray dogs in the area,” he said.
 
 Residents from Baner and Pashan talked about dog-bite cases. “My maid was bitten. Maids use kuccha roads in between societies. Stray dogs roam around such areas and attack people,” the resident said.
 
 Shreya Labhane from Aundh said, “If people collaborated with ResQ, CCC, and Pune volunteers’ group, the issues can be resolved.” 
 
 According to  , animal lovers should act as volunteers to either bring the dogs to the sterilization centres or catch the strays and hand them over to dog vans.
 
 Animal activist Saee Kembhavi said coexistence is essential. “PMC must increase the budget and get more NGOs to look after strays, routinely check for unsterilized dogs, and do something about people hitting dogs which makes them aggressive,” she said.
 
 Assistant medical officer of health in PMC   said except for puppies, lactating mothers and pregnant dogs, all others are sterilized. “NGOs do their work and submit reports. We have vans that respond immediately to any problems related to stray dogs. The idea is to get all dogs in an area sterilized,” she said. 
 
 
