PATIALA: The   scheduled between students from   and India to mark the celebrations of the 70th year of the existence of Yadavindra Public School (YPS) in the city on February 1 has been cancelled after the government of India denied the visas to the Pakistani students.

 The two-day function in the school is scheduled to be held in association with Aitchisonian Yadavandrian Old Students Association (AYOSA), where a team led by the principal of Aitchison College, Lahore was supposed to play a cricket match against the old Yadavandrians at the YPS cricket grounds.
 
 “The government of India had not given the visas to students of the Aitchison College, Lahore, following which the match between them and the students here will not take place. Earlier too, the Pakistan natives were denied their visas. What can I comment over this when the Central government had denied them visas?”, said the Punjab chief minister’s brother  , who is also an old student of YPS.
 
 However now, with no match taking place between the Indian and Pakistani students, the authorities are planning to hold a match between the old and the present Yadavindrians. The erstwhile royal families of Pakistan, Jammu and Kashmir, Kapurthala and Patiala are also all set to mark their presence in the two-day founder’s day celebrations of YPS in the city.
 
 Punjab chief minister Captain   and cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, chief minister’s son Raninder Singha, brother   and some of the senior most police officers and administrative officials, who are the alumni of the YPS will also be present on the in occassion.
 
 “We have not got the confirmation about the Visas of students and the college principal from Pakistan and now, the probability of them reaching here is bleak. Kapil Sharma will put up a comedy show to mark the event in the evening for the present and the former students of the school and its staff,” said Sukhpal Singh, PRO at YPS Patiala. He said Brig Sukhjit Singh (Retd) from the royal family of Kapurthala will also be at the event. The dinner will be hosted for the former students including the royal scions and others, who are the ex-students of the school.
 
 “The grandson of the former Prime Minister of Patiala Nawab Sir Liaquat Hyat Khan will reach here. However, the students and other dignitaries from Pakistan are not coming as they could not get the  ,” said YPS director Sanjeev Verma. He added that former Cabinet minister Karan Singh and descendant of the Kashmir royal family will address the gathering, besides chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and others.
 
 
