GHAZIABAD: The introduction of   for waste collection in Indirapuram was one of the factors that helped Ghaziabad significantly improve its Swachh Survekshan ranking. Indirapuram and Raj Nagar Extension are not in the ambit of the GMC and   is in charge of sanitation.

 
 However, GDA’s   to get   lifted from roads and open spaces through a private contractor in Raj Nagar Extension failed to take off after residents’ bodies vehemently opposed the imposition of Rs 100 per flat per month as user charge.
 
 Door-to-door municipal solid waste collection through tipper vans was introduced in Indirapuram in the latter half of 2017. As many as 21 vehicles, which also include tractor trolleys, have begun collecting solid waste from doorsteps. “Residential colonies of Indirapuram have been divided among two private contractors for lifting municipal solid waste. The waste is deposited in an 11-acre plot of land in Shakti Khand 4 from where it is transported for segregation or recycling. A sprinkler system is being built around this site to prevent accidental fires. Unauthorised garbage dumps have been cordoned off and sanitised too,” said GDA secretary Santosh Rai.
 
 The initiative to outsource trash collection was taken by the GDA in the wake of several complaints regarding the frequent burning of municipal solid waste dumped in vacant plots of the area. To make the project financially viable, the GDA had decided to collect money from residential societies. The FedAOA Rajnagar Extension, citing the support of 50 residential welfare associations, had told the GDA that they would not pay the charges. Rai said, “We deployed some sanitation workers to clean main roads of Raj Nagar Extension. The area is not under our jurisdiction, but still, we are providing this service.” At present, private builders collect and dispose garbage from highrise buildings for which flat owners pay a maintenance fee.
 
 Gajendra Arya, president of FAOA (Rajnagar Extension), said, “Charging user’s fee from residents is an illegal act in view of builders’ as well as GDA’s failure to allocate a proper place for disposing of garbage. It is builders, not residents, who are dumping garbage on vacant plots and roadsides. The GDA and the GMC have collected crores of rupees from residents in the form of external development charges and house taxes, respectively, but failed to provide basic facilities to us.”
 
