A condolence meeting for late actress   was held by T Subbaramireddy was organised in Hyderabad on Sunday. Several prominent personalities from Tollywood who could not attend her funeral in Mumbai, were present at the condolence meet and paid their respects to the first female superstar of India. Following the event, a special session was organised featuring hit numbers from Sridevi’s films in both Hindi 
and Telugu.
 
 
 
 A trailblazer in the true sense of the word, Sridevi endeared herself to Telugu people who considered her a Telugu ammayi. We acted in around 15 films together. We had a healthy rivalry and vyied to better each other be it in acting, dance, dialogue delivery etc. An uparallelled performer, Sridevi was her only competition. The fact that many young actresses enter the film industry dreaming of becoming a Sridevi someday bears testimony to her stature as as an actor. 
 
 
 
 She was one of the most fabulous artistes, a beautiful human being inside and outside. What a sad and untimely departure! Sridevi, wherever you are, my family and I and all those who admire you send you our good wishes, our prayers and our blessings that your eternal journey be peaceful, full of joy and be as amazing as your life.
 
 
 
 She was the most protective mother I have ever seen; sometimes, to the point of being over protective. I used to tell her that she needed to let go of her children... but she was like any other mother, she wouldn’t let go. What’s really touching to see is that the entire nation mourning for her. Nobody has had that kind of farewell. That shows what an amazing person she was... 
 
 
 
 I never had the privilege of working with Sridevi ma’am but the news of her death came as a complete shock. I strongly believe that an actor never dies and for an actor like Sridevi ma’am, the legacy she’s left behind will live on in each and everyone’s hearts forever. She’s not gone... she is with us, I can feel that. I sincerely pray to God to give all the strength in the world and beyond, to Jhanvi, Khushi and Boney Sir to cope with their loss. I can’t imagine what I would do without my mother. The pain her family must be going through is unimaginable. 
 
 
 
 Devalokamninchi vachchina devakanya laga, mana kalla mundu vachhi, andarini meripinchi, maimaripinchi malli thana lokaniki vellipoyinattu aniposthondi. At just 54, Sridevi left us all too early. I got to sing for her when she was a four year old child artiste (Boochadamma Boochadu) and also sang for her in her first film as a heroine, Anuragalu. That is something I am very proud of. We do not need to feel sad as she went back to the heavens that she came from leaving us many sweet memories.
 
 
 
 I’m truly at a loss for words. We did five films together. she always used to address me as ‘Sir’. She never sat down before I did. The last time we met was four-five months ago; she mentioned to me that both of us were completing 50 years in the film industry. She said we should celebrate it in a grand fashion. I told her that I was planning an event in Hyderabad to commemorate the occasion and she had promised to attend it.
 
 
 
 My earliest memory of her goes back to the time when Premabhishekam (the 1981 blockbuster starring ANR and Sridevi) was being shot; I was seven-years-old then and I used to visit the sets of the film regularly. My thatha garu thought I was coming there for him but I actually went there to watch Sridevi. I never ever told my thatha garu that. When I saw the film, it pained me to see thatha abandon Sridevi after he is diagnosed with cancer. I was very upset and angry and I did not talk to him for two or three days. Sridevi garu was my only favourite heroine. 
 
