HUBBALLI-DHARWAD: With CM Siddaramaiah promising minority status for the Lingayat community, the issue is a major talking point of the election. But away from the heat of polls, in Dharwad town in north  , the widow and son of Karnataka’s foremost Lingayat scholar MM   are reminding Karnataka’s netas the irony of invoking  , the 12th century philosopher of the Lingayat community, only at election time.

 
 Kalburgi, remembered for his lifelong study of Basavanna and writings about Lingayat independence from mainstream Hinduism, was shot dead in his house in August 2015. Winner of the Sahitya Akademi Award in 2006 and former VC of Kannada University, Hampi, Kalburgi’s killing spurred other Sahitya Akademi awardees to return their awards.
 
 
 
 Today when every party is paying homage to Basava, who believed in Lingayat independence from Hinduism, Kalburgi’s family points out that he was killed for the very beliefs parties now endorse.
 
 
  
 
 “My father’s was a strong firm voice for Basavanna’s philosophy,” says son Shrivijay Kalburgi, a Bengalurubased manager employed in the corporate sector, “he was killed because of his writings and the way he analysed manuscripts and argued for the cause of Lingayat independence from Hinduism.”
 
 Shrivijay says netas and governments have been forced to recognise the Lingayat demand for separateness from Hinduism because the Lingayat people have realised where they belong due to the efforts of various democratic movements within the community.
 
 “We would not like to claim any credit as Dr Kalburgi’s family for the recognition of this long-standing demand of the community,” says Shrivijay, “but yes, although my father was killed for his beliefs, now those beliefs have been vindicated and proved right.”
 
 In a quiet colony in Dharwad, Umadevi Kalburgi still lives in the house where her husband professor Kalburgi was killed, surrounded by his books and pictures, even his spectacles and mobile phone.
 
 She recalls the day he was killed. Two shooters came to the door while he was speaking on his cellphone and shot him at point blank range on his verandah. “My husband lived in the world of ideas, he had no enemies. Until today I don’t know why anyone would kill the professor.”
 
 Shrivijay says the family clings to the hope that police will find Kalburgi’s killers. “We are no longer worried about our own safety, what more can anybody do to our family? The government assures us investigations are on so we’re hopeful.”
 
 Are politicians using Basavanna’s beliefs for votes? “All his life, professor wrote about Basavanna, his life was committed to making people understand his beliefs and ideas,” says Umadevi. “I don’t think politicians have actually studied Basavanna. Now it is about votes, not scholarship of understanding Basavanna’s values.”
 
 Professor GN Devy who moved to Dharwad after Kalburgi was killed, remembers his friend as the scholar who had a lifelong engagement with vachana literature which speaks of the Lingayat rebellion against sanatan dharma. “A scholar to his bones, he was steeped in vachana literature. There had been a threat against them 30 years ago for arguing that Lingayats did not believe in an external God.”
 
 Devy, offered security by the government that he refused, was astounded by the response to a protest march he organised in Dharwad in 2016. “Thousands of students from 40 colleges participated in the silent procession,” Devy recalls. “It showed how deeply Kalburgi’s ideas had resonated.”
 
 Devy draws a parallel between the Lingayats of Karnataka and the Patels of Gujarat, to show how dominant agrarian castes once loyal to the   in both states feel they are losing out on opportunities and may be turning against the party. “Where once Lingayats had been drawn towards brahmanisation, now they are being pulled towards tribalisation.”
 
 Umadevi points out her husband’s ideas had nothing to do with politics. “He spoke of equality and justice. It was never about politics but about people.” She says Kalburgi kept showing through his studies of manuscripts how Basavanna challenged Hindu orthodoxies. “At the time people criticised him for dividing and challenging Hinduism, now everybody is following what he said.”
 
 “There is no doubt hindutva forces felt threatened by Kalburgi’s writings,” says Devy. If the Lingayats do get minority status, it will be a fitting memorial to the fearless scholar who devoted his life to this cause. Umadevi recalls how in the aftermath of Kalburgi’s killing Siddaramaiah, Yedyurappa came to their house. “Now no one comes,” she says, “I suppose it does not matter to them anymore.”
 
 
