By Deodutta Kurane

 What does the future entail? How will the future unfold? 
 
 The   revolution is here. It is cascading across every industry, causing wide-scale enterprise   and redefining customer expectations. For workers of the future, the ability to adapt their skills to the changing needs of the workplace will be critical. The number of employees who are operating in a more non-standard, complex job will increase, while less complex work will be automated. The time it takes for people’s skills to become irrelevant will shrink.
 
 We stand on the brink of a technological revolution — the fourth industrial revolution — that will fundamentally alter the way we live, work, and relate to one another. In its scale, scope, and complexity, this transformation will be unlike anything humankind has experienced before. Developments in  , artificial intelligence (AI),  ,  ,   and  , etc, are all building on and amplifying one another and blurring the lines between physical, digital, and biological spheres.
 
  will increasingly be about adaptive challenges — the ones that AI and robots will be less good at meeting. There’s going to be employment for people with growth mindsets, but fixed mindsets are going to be replaceable by machines.
 
 Jobs of the future: The first is data analysts, whom companies expect will help them make sense and derive insights from the torrent of data generated by technological disruptions.
 
 The second is specialised sales representatives. Every industry will need to become skilled in commercialising and explaining their offerings to business or government clients and consumers, either due to the innovative technical nature of the products themselves or due to new client targets with which the company is not yet familiar, or both.
 
 Computer and mathematical jobs as a whole will also continue to get a boost. Architects and engineering jobs will remain stable. Senior managers will be needed in industries across the board to lead companies through periods of transformation.
 
 One of the top skills that will be in demand by 2020 is creativity because while a lot of monotonous jobs can be automated, creative jobs still require a human. Hence, product designers. 
 
 Human resources and organisational development specialists will also be needed to help re-skill workers. Demand for regulatory and government relations experts will continue to increase as companies embrace new technologies.
 
 We have entered a new digital world of work that will dramatically change the way we collaborate, share and perform. Amid the buzz that automation and digitisation will replace jobs, it becomes imperative to ensure that you are updated with skills that future job requires.
 
 The secret is to go beyond STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) — the traditional skills to DICE (design thinking, innovation, creativity and entrepreneurship). These skills empower professionals to be more productive, have enhanced problem solving skills and contribute better to the overall vision of their organisation. They are also capable of managing comprehensive roles which require multi-skills specialisation and adaptability. Employable skills, the things employers will actually look for and skills high performers exhibit, are not just technical-learned skills. It is creativity, ingenuity, collaboration, synthesis, the ability to work across multiple disciplines and communicate with others. The challenge is we don’t teach them — we expect collaboration to come as a by-product of academic activity. Some people have a natural strength with them but they’re teachable and we’re not doing that.
 
 No industry is secure from the digital disruption. Hence, it is imperative for professionals to enhance their digital quotient (DQ). There are a plethora of options available today through which professionals can acquire new-age technology skills while working full time, both offline and online.   is equipping its employees with relevant and in-demand skills they need to thrive in tomorrow’s workplace and economy by partnering with online learning resource providers.
 
 Apart from structured up-skilling measures, small steps taken to develop oneself will go a long way. Professionals must also actively take up new and challenging   and step out of their comfort zones. Being abreast with latest technological trends by attending learning events from industry leaders as well as fellow professionals. Taking up part-time projects to experiment and learn will also help to acquire new skills and expand your knowledge horizon.
 
 Employer’s role: It’s not just employees who need to worry about brushing up on the skills front. Companies too must find ways to enhance the DQ of their employees. The digital capabilities of workers should be well aligned with the organisational goals for accelerating their pace with the customers. Digitisation transforms the way employees research, market the products and services, interact with the customers and make purchases on the digital consumer decision journey. Companies need to align their organisational structures, talent development, funding mechanisms, and key performance indicators (KPIs) with the digital strategy they’ve chosen. For enhancing the DQ of the Yes Bankers, we have launched DICE that is based on revolutionary platforms and innovations like blockchain, big data and AI that has led to the emergence of new age ‘innovation-oriented models’. 
 
 The skills of yesterday will be obsolete tomorrow. Change won’t wait for us. We’ll need to be proactive in up-skilling ourselves so that everyone can benefit. Some jobs will disappear, others will grow and jobs that don’t even exist today will become commonplace. What is certain is that the future workforce will need to align its skill-set to keep pace.
 
 The author is group president — human capital management at Yes Bank. Views are personal 
 
 
