Music has no boundaries. No matter what language, genre, rhythm, it can always find a way to everyone’s heart’… goes an anonymous saying. The words rang true when Kerala rocker   met Afropop artiste Bibi Tanga. Their friendship took the shape of a music band titled   with  , a mix of African and Malayalam folk. The group, which have been touring the country, is all set to perform in Thiruvananthapuram on March 31.

 Bibi Tanga is a musical globe-trotter born in   in a family of diplomats, who settled down in Paris. The musician says that the similarities of both the regions helped him become friends with Malayali artistes. “Being a musician, I always love to collaborate with artistes of various countries and languages. I am friends with Francois Grosjean, the present director of Alliance Francaise de Trivandrum, who used to work at my hometown Bangoi in Central African Republic. My homeland Africa and India have many similarities, especially in their folk music. It was Francois who introduced me to John. I must say I found the right guy as John and his friends, folk singer Sunil Kumar KP and Rahul CR, a bassist and flautist were the perfect team for me to accomplish my project”.
 
 John Anthony, a gifted guitarist and founder of popular music band  , had rubbed shoulders with biggies including Oscar-winning composer A R Rahman. According to John, the association with Tanga has given birth to some groovy multi-language song numbers which are sure to floor music lovers. “Bibi flew down to Thiruvananthapuram last year in June to meet us. We managed to complete five songs within one week and launched a new music band with him. The compositions are full of rhythmic tunes which convey the soul of African and Malayalam folk songs,” says John.
 
 Ask John if language was a barrier and he replies, “Music has no language. The whole project was a give and take effort. If artistes develop ego issues it becomes hard to work on a project. Luckily there were no challenges as Bibi and our team respected each other’s suggestions and skills which resulted in beautiful tracks within one week.”
 
 The tracks composed by the team talk about agrarian culture, lives of fishermen, wildlife and ethnic food. The songs include both African and Malayalam lyrics penned by Bibi and popular folk singer Sunil Kumar respectively. Says Sunil, “From Bibi, we learnt that Kerala has many geographical similarities with his homeland Africa. African tribal beats never fail to create waves in our hearts perhaps because of their similarity with our nadan pattu rhythms. While working on one of the songs, I sang aalesa… aalesa… a folk song related to fishermen who go in small boats to catch fish. When he understood the theme of the song he countered it with his lyrics in Sangho, his native language. Also when performing the song on stage I would call out poovoi (the sound used by the boatmen in Kerala to call each other’s attention) to Bibi to which he would respond in the same way. These improvisations made the performances vibrant.”
 
 Bibi Tanga agrees, “It was fun with the guys and a great experience to cherish. In Africa we also consider the elephant as our national animal and here in Kerala the animal has the same status. We have made a song about the elephant also. Malayalam is so cool and I wish to learn the language. The beauty of the language is reflected in its music.”
 
 The team, which has performed in major Indian cities including Delhi, Bombay, Hyderabad and Pune, says the audience were very welcoming even though the lyrics were in Malayalam and Sangho. John says, “We had only practised a day prior to the first show at Delhi in March 24. The audience including people who were around 60 years danced to our songs like there was no tomorrow and that was a blessed feedback for us. As the tracks are a vibrant blend of rhythms, it helps people to feel the music in their hearts. The final track, Sangho… is about mother tongue and the importance of saving it. It is a soft musical track and some of the audiences conveyed that it moved them into tears.”
 
 John says that a world tour including Paris, Cameroon and Africa is on the anvil. The music show will be held at Bharat Bhavan, Vazhuthacadu at 6.30 pm.
 
