AJMER: For BJP, it was hard to digest that it trailed in all eight assembly constituencies, including Nasirabad, in   bypoll.

 Not even once was BJP candidate   ahead of Congress candidate   during the counting of votes on Thursday.
 
 At present, BJP has seven MLAs in Ajmer. The party had lost the Nasirabad seat in by-elections of 2014.
 
 The result on Thursday showed that Congress got more votes in every   constituency.
 
 In Ajmer south constituency, the lead was of over 14,000 votes, reflecting that Congress has again gained the confidence of Dalit voters.
 
 In Ajmer north, a centre of RSS management and a seat retained in last 15 years, Congress got 7,000 more votes.
 
 In Kekri, Congress secured more than 32,000 votes.
 
 In Nasirabad where Jat voters are in good number, Sharma got more than 3,500 votes.
 
 In Masuda, the lead was of over 9,000 votes, while in Kishangarh, where CM Vasundhara Raje had inaugurated an airport, Congress got over 17,000 votes.
 
 In Pushkar, where BJP played Hindu card by renovation of Brahma Temple, the party trailed by more than 7,000 votes.
 
 In Dudu, Congress went ahead with more than 8,000 votes.
 
 Pattern of voting shows that Congress won people’s confidence in Ajmer north, Kekri and Kishangarh as votes of Brahmin, Rajput and Vaish communities shifted loyalties.
 
 Kekri has Brahmins and Vaishs in good numbers, while Kishangarh and Ajmer north segments are dominated by Vaishs and Rajputs.
 
 Lamba’s supporters and Jat leaders said that the votes which the BJP candidate got were just because of the community’s efforts and sympathy wave on account of Sanwar Lal Jat’s death.
 
 “BJP organisation did nothing to get votes in the name of the party,” said a supporter of Lamba.
 
 Even the efforts of chief minister to lure Gujjar voters didn’t yield results.
 
 Dalit voters of Ajmer south shifted towards Congress.
 
 “People, especially Jains who are businessmen voted against the BJP,” said a Congress leader.
 
 The result of Ajmer   bypoll has changed the equation pattern of state assembly elections, and so both the parties in coming days will have to devise their strategy for upcoming state assembly elections in November.
 
 
