PATNA: Governor  , who unfurled the tricolour at the historic Gandhi Maidan on 69th Republic Day on Friday, said the state government was working for development of all sections of the society.

 “The government is committed to empowering the youth and the marginalized sections of the society besides implementing welfare and development schemes under its ‘Saat Nishchay’ programme,” the governor said.
 
 Chief minister Nitish Kumar, his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi and others were also present. Birbhadra Prasad Barnwal was the lone freedom fighter who watched the function with his wife Asharani Barnrwal.
 
 The governor also highlighted various schemes initiated by the government to boost health sector in the state. “After its successful launch at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), kidney transplant facility will now be introduced at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences. A cancer centre and liver transplant facility will also come up at IGIMS,” he added.
 
 The governor said drainage water would soon be flown into the Ganga and used for irrigation after treatment. “The government is leaving no stone unturned to make agricultural equipment manufacturers, dairy farmers, fishermen and poultry farmers self-dependent,” the governor said. He also inspected the parade which was commanded by Ashok Mishra, an IPS officer of 2016 batch.
 
 Altogether 19 contingents of different security forces, including Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Special Task Force (STF), Bihar police, Gorkhas of Bihar Military Police (BMP), women wing of Patna police, two separate companies of rural and urban home guards, four wings of National Cadet Corps (NCC), Bihar Scouts, Bihar Guides, canine unit of state police and Bihar Fire Services of state police took part in march past.
 
 This year, a contingent of Uttar Pradesh police took part in the Republic Day parade at the ground. Each year, a contingent from outside the state is invited to take part in the march past. The CRPF contingent was adjudged the best contingent in the march past, followed by NCC’s air force wing and SSB. 
 
 Altogether 14 tableaux of different departments were displayed. Bihar Education Project Council’s tableau won the first prize. It was followed by industries department and Jeevika.
 
 On behalf of the state government, the governor also gave a cheque for Rs 1 lakh to Captain Ashok Kumar of Lakhisarai, who had won Shaurya Chakra. JWO Mukesh Kumar Tiwary from IAF, who won Vayu Sena medal, was given Rs 75,000. Lieutenant Colonel Sumit Kumar Singh of Patna and Major Adarsh Bharti of Araria, who have won Mentioned in Dispatches, received Rs 50,000 each.
 
 Retired Air Marshal Bipin Bihari Prasad Sinha, winner of Param Vishist Seva Medal and Lieutenant General Ashish Ranjan Prasad, winner of Ati Vishisht Seva medal, were also given Rs 1 lakh each. Apart from cash and medals, the winners also received commendation letters.
 
 
