HYDERABAD: After DNA-based designer drugs to treat incurable genetic diseases, it is the turn of synthetic RNA to fight genetic or hereditary health issues, besides neuro degenerative diseases like Alzheimer's. RNA or ribonucleic acid plays a key role in regulation and coding and decoding of genes and is thus important in biological functioning of the body.

 Scientists have come out with synthetic RNA that will help in gene-silencing to produce designer medicines to treat diseases for which there is no known cure. Clinical trials for Alzheimer's diseases using the therapy are currently underway. Dr  , a distinguished professor of medicine, cellular and molecular medicine and neurosciences at the  , presented a research study on "gene silencing therapy for neurodegenerative disease", at   of Cell Biology-2018, which began here on Saturday. The city-based Centre for Cellular and   is local host of the international event being attended by eminent biologists from around the world.
 
 The session was dedicated to gene silencing therapy. Dr   of the US presented a paper on role of satellite RNAs in breast cancer. The Hyderabad science lecture was presented by Nobel laureate   on how fluorescence technology revolutionized the world of biology and what future it holds for treating disease. He stressed on the importance of basic research on non-traditional organisms. Dr Jennifer A Lippincott-Schwartz of the US spoke about spatial and temporal dynamics of organelles (tiny structures present within cells) using fluorescence technology.
 
 Dr  , who made pioneering contributions to understanding of mechanisms of chromosome movement and cell-cycle control during normal cellular division and deviations from these principles in cancer, said genes whose mutation causes neurodegenerative disease are widely expressed within neurons and non-neurons of nervous system. They cause damage not only within most-vulnerable neurons, but also within partner neurons and glia (a supportive cell).
 
 "Gene silencing or altered pre-RNA splicing broadly within neurons and non-neurons throughout nervous system has been achieved using a clinically feasible designer DNA drug injection of antisense oligonucleotides (ASO) into the nervous system," he said. The therapy has slowed down the disease progression for inherited amyotrophic lateral sclerosis in rodents or sustained partial disease reversal for  's-like disease. Clinical trials in Alzheimer's disease has been initiated, he said.
 
 
