Visakhapatnam: With the two-month   on fishing in deep sea having begun on Sunday, the fishermen and those involved with the trade have started searching for alternative living sources — for the next two months.

 Some of the alternatives include working with flower traders at markets and Rythu Bazars, working in bars and restaurants, and helping city police and civic authorities as swimmers/life guards on beach fronts. Some even opt to attend summer coaching camps in sports or attend computer classes.
 
 Arjili Dasu, executive director of Visakhapatnam Youth Fishermen Welfare Society, says some workers go home on vacation while a number of them also get engaged in other part-time activities in the city to earn money.
 
 Dasu said a mechanised fishing boat needs minimum seven-eight workers who go for deep sea fishing twice a month, staying away from land at least 10-12 days at a stretch. Each worker earns around Rs 10,000 per month. The total number of fishing days are 220 in a year, but the fishermen don’t get a good catch every day — those good days would be about 120 in a year.
 
 “Most of the workers go to their native places, like Chintapalli village in Poosapatirega mandal of Vizianagaram district on vacation while the remaining workers engage in part-time jobs in the city. Some also take on the role of life guards to support civic and police authorities, on the beach fronts,” Dasu added.
 
 A Narasimha Murthy, Vizag city beach protection team head and assistant commissioner of police for Vizag East, said they are currently having 38 community guards (expert in swimming in the sea) provided by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). “If GVMC provides us, we will take more community guards,” Murthy told TOI.
 
 Vasupalli Kishore, a fisherman who works in a mechanised boat at Vizag fishing harbour, said he attends short-term job-orientated summer courses. “This time I am planning to go to computer classes. I have passed my Class X. Some of my colleagues have joined part-time jobs at cinema halls and in the transport sector,” Kishore said.
 
 
