Pilots flying   or   routes may not ex perience voice com munication blackout en route any more as   ( ) has installed a new VHF transmitter at Pallavaram hills to enhance the coverage.

 The transmitter, installed on top of Pallavaram hills where a police transmitter is also located, helps enhance the VHF signals and allows pilots to be in touch with air traffic control in Chennai and other airports throughout the journey.
 
 
  
 Though planes are visible on radar, pilots should call in their position and other details when the flight passes designated waypoints on an air route. However, pilots have been experiencing difficulty to remain in touch because VHF signals have been intermittent at different spots on   route and on Chennai-Vizag route.
 
 An official said that the new transmitter would also enhance the range of VHF coverage. “VHF coverage is usually spread over 200 miles to 250 miles but we are now getting clear signal up to 300 miles after the new unit was commissioned. There was no complete blackout but signals used to be weak and intermittent,” he added.
 
 The transmitter will also provide good voice connectivity to low-flying planes, below an altitude of 25,000 feet, and also to those descending to land and ascending to reach cruising altitude after take-off.
 
 A pilot said, “VHF blind spots used to be a hassle while flying the southern routes from Chennai. In an area over Coimbatore, we can’t communicate with Chennai, Bengaluru or Trivandrum for some time because of poor signal. There is another blind spot near   airport. It is important for pilots to report the position of the plane to the air traffic control unless the ATC instructs otherwise.”
 
 A K Dutta, member,   (ANS), AAI, inaugurated the VHF transmitter on Wednesday. He also launched an   (ARM) tool designed in-house to digitise air traffic controller records, including details about training, rating, medical checks, duty log and other details. The system will provide popup alerts if a rating or training session is due for a controller.
 
 
