BENGALURU: A 22-year-old woman committed suicide in Koramangala on Saturday, after her boyfriend allegedly sexually exploited and promised to marry her, but later went back on his word. 

 Anjali M, a BPO employee, ended her life by consuming more than 20 sleeping pills at her LR Nagar residence in Koramangala.
 
 Adugodi police said Anjali's mother   lodged a complaint, saying her daughter had been cheated by her boyfriend and colleague, pushing her to take the extreme step. 
 
 Police have registered a case of rape, cheating and abetment to suicide against her boyfriend, Sanjay, a resident of Rose Garden, Soranahalli, near Koramangala.   is at large and they have formed a team to nab him, they added. 
 
 Anjali had joined a BPO as a telecaller two months ago and came in contact with Sanjay, who was also working at the same firm, police said. The duo fell in love and he reportedly promised her that he would marry her. Recently, he took her to his residence, where he misused her sexually. Anjali later revealed this to her mother. 
 
 "Her mother, along with a few relatives, met Sanjay on Friday near a church in Rose Garden. They asked him to marry Anjali as he had promised the same and shared a physical relationship with her. He declined to marry Anjali and said she could die if she wanted to as he was not in love with her and his family will not agree to the marriage," police quoted the complainant as saying.
 
  Sagaya Mary found her daughter distraught and consoled her. However, on Sunday morning, Anjali was found suffering from severe stomach ache and had a note in her hand. In the note, Anjali said she was disappointed by the turn of events in her life and hence committing suicide. 
 
 Anjali was rushed to a nearby hospital and later shifted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital. She told police at the hospital that she had consumed more than 20 sleeping tablets to kill herself. She died at10.45am.
 
 Police have booked Sanjay under IPC sections 420 (cheating), 376 (rape) and 306 (abetment to suicide). Anjali's body has been handed over to the family after postmortem examination.
 
 
