Gold Coast: Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar advanced to the gold medal match in men’s freestyle 74kg match after winning three one-sided bouts at the Carrara Sports Arena here on Thursday.

 
 
 
 The celebrated Indian wrestler, who won the Commonwealth Championships last December, looked in menacing form as he took down his opponents with ease. “This my second innings as I’m making my return. It’s due to the blessings of all my well-wishers that I’m doing well,” Sushil told TOI after beating Connor Evans of Australia by a fall, just a minute into his six-minute match.
 
 
 
 
 
 It was the Aussie who came out charging at the start but Sushil soon got the measure of his opponent and pinned him down. He won two technical points in the first 50 seconds before finishing the match pinning Evans to the mat. The thrashing of the Aussie left the host fans stunned and for the jubilant Indian fans it was all over too fast.
 
 The Indian showed no mercy to his quarterfinal opponent too as he beat Pakistan’s Muhammed Asad Butt by technical superiority. Sushil scored six points in the first period and four more a minute into the second session to book his place in the final. Earlier, in the first round, Sushil beat Jevon Balfour of Canada.
 
 
  
  
 
 Also advancing to the gold medal round was   in the men’s 57kg freestyle competition. He will take on Steven Takahashi of Canada. Rahul beat Muhammad Bilal of Pakistan in the semis with a 12-8 points verdict after getting past George Ramm of England and Thomas Cicchini of Australia in the first two rounds.
 
 
 
 
  beat Carissa Holland in the freestyle 53kg Nordic system match to enter the final. The Indian was far too superior and she quickly scored the points before forcing the fall. Earlier, she beat Dipika Dilhani (Sri Lanka) and Bose Samuel (Nigeria). The Indian will now take on Diana Weicker of Canada.
 
 In the women’s 76kg semifinal, Kiran Bishnoi lost to Blessing Onyebuchi of Nigeria and will now fight for the bronze with Katouskia Pariadhaven of Mauritius.
 
 The medal rounds will start at 5 pm local time (12.30 pm IST).
 
 
