CHENNAI: In a rare action, police have booked two Tamil   (TNRDC) officials and five contracting firm staff over poor maintenance of a flyover that resulted in a road accident killing three at the spot.

 After the accident at Madhavaram near Red Hills on   in November 2017, investigators found the driver went over the unfinished flyover as there were no barricades or warning boards.
 
 
 
  
 
 This is the first time the government has dealt firmly with accidents over the lack of precautionary measures at roads/ flyovers under construction, said a senior transport department official. ‘We have taken cue from suggestions made by the Supreme Court committee on road safety,” he added.
 
 The committee recommends that enforcement agencies hold contractors and authorities responsible for accidents due to poor maintenance, faulty design and bad signage on roads/flyovers under construction.
 
 The incident at Madhavaram is not an isolated case. In Tamil Nadu, nearly 700 people died and 4,200 were injured in accidents on or near half-finished roads in the 2015-16 period when 1,733 road accidents were reported due to rut or potholes on roads, shows data released by the Union ministry of road transport and highways.
 
 Tamil Nadu topped the overall accident chart in the country during this period.
 
 Experts say the numbers might be high on reality as police did not classify many road accident deaths in a scientific way. Nearly 1.87 lakh driving licences have been suspended in the last six months for traffic violations including speeding, drunk driving and use of mobile phone while driving, said an official.
 
 
 
 
 “Potholes are formed due to poor maintenance and use of substandard construction material and government is liable to pay victims in these cases,” said advocate VS Suresh, who handles road accident cases.
 
 The state transport department introduced a slew of reforms to reduce the road accident rate after the SC committee on road safety pulled up the authorities for inadequate efforts.
 
 Nearly 1.87 lakh driving licences have been suspended in the last six months for traffic violations including speeding, drunk driving and use of mobile phone while driving, said the official. “The number of road accidents were reduced and 1,061 lives were saved in 2017 compared to 2016 through the efforts of the   and various other stakeholders,” he said.
 
 
