I was in Class 9 when I got a chance to act as one of the heroine’s friends in Devaragam. I had only a minor role but was with   throughout the 25-day shoot. She was the first film star I saw in real life and I vividly remember the moment she came to the set for the first time. The shoot was in an agraharam in Palakkad and there was a huge crowd, waiting for her in great anticipation. She stepped out of a Tata Estate, in a magenta dhavani, in full makeup and costume, looking like a goddess! I even remember the whiff of perfume as she glided by.

 I still remember how tall she was and how long and slender her fingers were. She would eat very little, only nuts and fruits and some fancy biscuits, all of which she would share with us. We mostly saw her in make-up but one of the days saw her without a trace of it, her hair let down. But her complexion was flawless and her eyes had a shine. There were never any star tantrums and she would arrive on the dot, every day.
 
 I was the junior most in the cast but she would encourage me saying ‘you can do it’. The most memorable incident was a scene we shot in the Malampuzha dam site where us friends put mehndi on her hands. It was shot in two days and in those days someone would write down every small detail needed for continuity in shots. The assistant wrote down that my hair is in a plait, by mistake, whereas it was in two plaits in real. I didn’t remember it either and did a single plait on the second day. But the instant Sridevi saw me she said, “Intha mathiri allai... kandippa”. Bharathan sir blasted the assistant that day and when the film came out we found that she was right. Her observation skills were that sharp. I still watch out for that scene in the movie.
 
 She celebrated her birthday on our set. We had made a board full of her pictures cut out from magazines which we presented to her. Though she had celebrated most of her birthdays on sets she said she had never had such a warm one ever, with a hint of tears in her eyes. And she gave us all a piece of cake in our mouths, exhilarating for a 14-year-old me.
 
 In another instance, we were shooting for the song Sasikala Charthiya at Jayalalita film city in Chennai. I was the only one trained in classical dance and she noticed it! When the shot was ready, she said, “You dance well, come to the front.” I was amazed and throughout the song I was dancing right next to her. And those were days when there was a practice of placing extras who dance well at that back so that the heroine is not outshined.
 I had just one line or so in the film but was completely ignorant of voice modulation etc and I remember how Sridevi showed me how to express with my eyes even for that one scene!
 
 One of the days, an old paatti from the nearby agraharam came to her saying she was in dire need of money as her daughter was getting married. Without asking a word Sridevi called her manager and asked him to write a cheque for her. There were many such incidents on that shoot where Sridevi amazed us with her grace and charm and of course, beauty.
 
 On the last day of the shoot of our combination scenes she came to each one of us and placed a kiss on each of our cheeks. Afterwards I have worked in many films, and met many actors but I have often wondered whether I will ever be able to meet Sridevi again and ask her if she remembers me. I’ve grieved the passing of many film personalities but Sridevi’s hurts like no other, somehow. 
 
 
