Tiruvannamalai: Residents of Athimur and neighbouring villagers were “determined to kill the victims” of Wednesday’s lynching and “burn their bodies”, according to a police official. Wednesday’s horror had claimed the life of a 65-year-old woman.

 Recollecting the horrifying incident that stretched for over 90 minutes, a police official said the villagers had presumed that the five, who came in the car to offer prayers at their family temple, were  .
 
 “They wanted to kill them on the spot. They even questioned us for trying to stop them and for rescuing the victims. They were not in a mood to listen to our repeated pleas. Except for two or three men in the huge crowd, everyone wanted the five occupants in the car to be killed,” a police official, who was part of the four-member team that reached the spot, told TOI. 
 
 The police team – comprising sub-inspectors of police Dhayalan and Ravi, head constable Sankar and special branch constable Parthasarathy – reached the spot around 10.20am. However, the police were outnumbered – it was a ratio of 1: 400.
 
 Siva of Jamankulam (around 2km from Athimur) allegedly made a phone call and informed the villagers that the ‘child lifters’ were trying to escape in a ‘red’ car heading towards Athimur. Nearly 150 men – as young as 14 to 50 years of age – prevented the victims’ car from moving ahead by pulling a repair trolley in the middle of the Polur-Jamunamaruthur Road at Athimur-Kaliyam Junction. They then pulled the victims out of the car, disrobed them and beat them black and blue. The inhumane attack continued for over an hour in the presence of the police team. 
 
 At one point a police official stood on the police jeep and pleaded the villagers with folded hands to stop the attack. “As my persuasion failed to bear fruit, I decided to play a sentimental card to calm them down. I climbed atop the police jeep and pleaded holding my hands over my head and said …please stop attacking them (victims). We will conduct an inquiry and take appropriate action,” he said.
 
 But the villagers, questioning the police for pleading for the ‘child lifters’, said that they want to kill them. “Don’t stop us. We will kill them and burn their bodies,” an SI said, quoting one of the angry villagers. Many others also echoed the same view, he added. Though the police, after a lot of struggle, managed to rescue the victims one by one, but the villagers did not allow the vehicle to pass and squatted on the road. “Somehow we managed to bring the victims to the old government hospital in Polur. But it was too late for the woman (Rukhmani, 65),” he added. The police said that they have filed a case against 62 people, including 10 women, in connection with the incident. “So far, we have arrested 36 people, including 11 arrested today (Saturday), and launched a search for others who are at large,” said inspector of police of Polur town M Suresh Babu.
 
 
