KOZHIKODE: Faced with rampaging monkeys invading human habitations at   in  , the authorities have drawn up a project to sterilize and rehabilitate them in a 10-acre sanctuary to be set up exclusively for monkeys. 

 The project prepared by the Kerala Veterinary and   (KVASU) comes two years after the state government earmarked Rs 25 lakh to tackle the monkey menace in Kalpetta in the 2016-17 budget.
 
 Residents of Kalpetta have for long been complaining of thousands of monkeys raiding their crops and intruding into their homes and offices. Even a local court had in 2013 ordered the removal of all monkeys from the territorial limits of Kalpetta revenue village within four months. However, the relocation attempts by the forest department had failed to contain the menace.
 
 "We are planning to undertake sterilization of monkeys and the animals will be kept in dedicated 10-acre rehabilitation site post sterilization where they will be provided food and animal care," Kalpetta MLA C   said.
 
 He said that the special open enclosure to rehabilitate monkeys will be set up outside the forests and added that efforts were on to identify a suitable site for the project.
 
 The rehabilitation centre, which is the first such facility to come up in the state, would also have facilities to provide food apart from sheds to shelter the animals from rains. 
 
 "The site would confirm to the guidelines prescribed by the   and we have provisioned a 500 animal capacity to start with," an official associated with the project said.
 
 According to the report, the cost of the rehabilitation centre has been pegged at Rs 1.5 crore for infrastructure creation apart from Rs 50 lakh for running the centre.
 
 The report has called for a multi-pronged approach to tackle the monkey menace and has six specific proposals, including ensuring proper disposal of food waste through composting method to limit food availability to the monkeys and promoting alternative crops which are not palatable for monkeys. Also, KVASU has proposed curbing illegal practices by resorts to attract wildlife to their premises by placing salt licks and offering food. The other proposals in the report include setting up a group of trained personnel under a cooperative society who will undertake patrolling to prevent straying of monkeys.
 
 Forest department had in a counter affidavit filed before the Kerala state human rights commission said that capture and relocation of monkeys back to the forest was not possible. The affidavit by south   stated that the stray monkeys which have been habituated to living amongst people would not stay in the forest and would stray out to some other human habitations.
 
 
