BENGALURU: The   believes that BJP national president Amit Shah’s two-day visit to shore up   votes went off well, barring one embarrassment. The   in Chitradurga had beseeched Shah to press for minority religion status for the Lingayats. The BJP has opposed the move.

 The BJP and Shah were caught off-guard with the memorandum which the mutt seer Murugarajendra Swami handed to them. According to party sources, except for that “incident” and a couple of “gaffes”, Shah’s mutt hopping is being considered a success since he achieved his agenda of being seen “entering and exiting” Lingayat mutts at the height of the controversy.
 
 The influential Madara Chennaiya swami, whom Shah met during his trip told TOI: “People will build their perceptions by seeing who these big leaders meet. We do not need to give a message, they will understand.”
 
 Shah’s visits were not too detailed except for his interaction with the seers of small mutts such as the Bekinakal mutt in Shivamogga, the bastion of party state president B S Yeddyurappa. At the Siddaganga mutt, one of the more influential Lingayat mutts, Shah kept it simple and did not raise the issue of the Veerashaiva-Lingayat controversy.
 
 The BJP leadership considered it an “apolitical” meeting. At Sirigere, Shah strategically timed his visit to have lunch with the politically influential Taralabalu mutt seer, Shivamurthy Shivacharya Mahaswamiji. The seer, who is said to be veering towards the BJP, was reportedly happy about the visit.
 
 While Shah was scheduled to meet the 20-odd small and big mutt seers affiliated to the Muruga mutt, he left in a hurry after the memorandum was submitted. Party sources said Shah was taken to the Muruga mutt, despite knowing the anti-BJP stance of the seer, as it would not be well received in public if he did not visit the mutt even after landing in Chitradurga and visiting other mutts. 
 
 Murugarajendra swami, when asked whether he will ask the Lingayat community to vote for one single party, told TOI: “A collective decision will be taken by us seers in this matter.”
 
 BJP MP Pralhad Joshi who was with Shah during his visits, said, “The Amit Shah visit has created a huge impact. All the mutts which he visited have their own influence in the society with their social work. Ninety nine per cent of the mutts have agreed with the fact that if the mutts and the Hindu community has to develop then BJP must come to power.” 
 
 
