DORAHA/LUDHIANA: Banning love marriages was not the only resolution the panchayat of Chankoian Khurd village in   passed on April 29, but it also passed resolutions asking youngsters not to wear provocative or short clothes, banned the use of loud music on tractors and announced a fine of Rs 5,100 to whoever is found selling drugs.

 Besides the members of panchayat, gurdwara committee and sports club also imposed a ban on the use of loudspeakers by vegetable vendors coming to the village and announced a fine of Rs 1,100 on those who did not comply with the orders.
 
 Another resolution mentioned that death anniversaries should be kept simple and no jalebis and pakodas should be allowed during the event. Any person violating the resolution would be made to pay a fine of Rs 21,000 and the same will be doubled if a person is found doing the same for the second time. However, if a person deposits Rs 21,000 in the gurdwara, he can serve jalebis and pakodas at the event.
 
 Another resolution mentioned that a person would not enter the house of any villager without his/her permission to get his pigeon that may have landed on the latter’s roof. Also the person finding such a pigeon will return the same to its owner.
 
 The members of gram panchayat, gurdwara committee and sports club claimed that all the resolutions have been passed after getting consent from villagers. They also claimed that unnecessary controversy has been created over just one resolution which too was passed after parents of the newlywed couple, who were against the marriage, had persuaded the panchayat to do so. The panchayat has now decided to withdraw the same following an outcry and pressure from the police.
 
 “The loud music being played on tractors disturbs people including students, so such a resolution has been adopted unanimously. The village has a significant number of liquor peddlers and the resolution against the malpractice was passed to check such trafficking,” said village sarpanch Hakam Singh, adding that the resolutions have been passed in view of welfare of the village.
 
 A villager said there was a need to make death rituals and functions simpler and cheaper as people had started spending heavily on such events. He said though he did not agree with the resolution against provocative clothes, young boys and girls needed to dress decently.
 
 
