INDORE: The construction of   connecting   and Vidur Nagar is to begin even after six months of approval of the project estimate by civic body.   have alleged negligence of authorities concerned in the construction work. 

 The delay in development of the road has been causing inconvenience to the residents. They said it has become difficult for them to commute as the stretch is in bad condition due to   dumped and sprayed for the construction work. 
 
 In November, 2017, a private agency entrusted for the project by Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) had started filling work on the 40-ft wide half-kilometre road. There was a ray of hope for the residents when they saw a few loads of gravel dumped and sprayed on the street for the road laying project. But, their expectation shattered when they saw the agency dumping the gravel again and again thus increasing the height of the path from the ground level. Thereafter, the work stopped.
 
 “It has become difficult for us to use this incomplete road as its height has increased by 4-ft from the ground. One has to almost climb over to cross the stretch,” said a resident Lakshman Rai Sahu.
 
 The Rishi Nagar road will merge with Vidur Nagar 60-ft main road. “While the development of Vidur Nagar road and other street is on, the civic body has ignored construction of Rishi Nagar road,” alleged a resident. 
 
 Another resident Kapil Salvi said, “The road will be a much-needed relief for the residents as well as the commuters heading towards the Vidur Nagar main road.”
 
 He said they had complained about the incomplete construction work to civic body officials on several occasions, but in vain. 
 
 Fed up of this delay, the residents have threatened to intensify their   unless an action is taken soon to start the construction work. 
 
  “The stretch was muddy and filled with potholes due to which the filling was done. We have already instructed the agency to bring momentum in the work. It will be completed soon,” said IMC zonal officer GD Sutar. 
 
 
