NEW DELHI:   officials have initiated an inquiry about a party that was held at the office of the   superintendent on May 6. It was found that four people, including two undertrials who were arrested for cases of cheating, had organised the party in which they had employed some jail wardens to serve food that was ordered from an eatery outside the jail. They were later caught by the senior officers and a diary entry was also made in this regard.

 The incident was reported after a senior official found some wardens serving the food to the undertrials who have been allowed to set up an office in a room beside the superintendent’s office in Jail number 1 after a special order from the  . The two undertrials were a part of a real-estate firm and are accused of cheating several people. They are allowed to meet their office-bearers at this office where they can sit and evaluate their assets that they would use to pay off their debts.
 
 Jail officials said that taking advantage of the facilities provided to them by the court, the undertrials had ordered food from an eatery outside the jail premises. Their driver, who had come to deliver a set of papers to the men, had brought the food along with him. An inquiry was ordered to find out how the person had smuggled the food for the prisoners without prior permission.
 
 Incidentally, bringing non-vegetarian food into the jail premises is strictly prohibited under the rules. Jail officials are probing how they managed to bring the food in despite the security checks.
 
 IG (prisons) Raj Kumar said that an inquiry has been ordered to find out whether some jail officials have been helping the men smuggle goods from outside. “We would also approach the court to inform them about the incident, since they have been taking advantage of the facilities provided to them by the court and misusing them,” said Kumar.
 
 Jail officials said that the two undertrials have been asked to schedule their meetings under the supervision of a senior officer to prevent similar incidents in the future. The area in which the office is located can be accessed only after crossing a two-tier checking mechanism.
 
 
