NAGPUR: Abandoned for decades now citing security problems, the Old Airport road linking Khamla road with Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport is all set to reopen. As per the preliminary plan, the traffic on   road’s one way will be diverted to Old Airport road for speeding up the Metro Rail and double decker flyover works. Later, the road can be utilized for VVIPs and emergency transit for the airport.

 The Maharashtra Airport Development Corporation (MADC) in association with the   (Mahametro) has opened the gate of the old airport towards Sahakar Nagar crematorium. The   has started the road’s widening and asphalting few days back. The road’s width, which is around 3.5 meter, will be widened to around 5.5-6 meter.
 
 Since the British era, the road with a length of 900 meter was used for reaching the airport. After widening the Wardha road, the Old Airport road was closed down. The road links with road between the airport and Wardha road around 200 meters before the airport’s terminal.
 
 MADC official told TOI permission has been given to Mahametro for widening and asphalting the road. “There are various issues like security to the airport, flying club situated on the road etc. Therefore, the final plan as to how and who to be permitted on the road will be decided after completion of the works,” he said.
 
 Mahametro director (projects) Mahesh Kumar said Mahametro is planning to ease congestion on Wardha road and convenience to the citizens. “We are planning to speed up works on double decker flyover being constructed on Wardha road by roping in big cranes and other machineries. Need is to block one way of Wardha road for roping in these machineries for next 6-8 months. Probably, the way from the airport square to the city will be blocked. We will divert only one way traffic on the Old Airport road after getting final permission from MADC,” he said.
 
 Another Mahametro official said blocking one way of Wardha road during night hours has been already started. “It causes congestion and also safety problems. For sure, one way of Wardha road will be blocked during night hours after making the Old Airport road ready. A plan for morning hours diversion is also on pipeline,” he said.
 
 The Old Airport road has been famous for morning and evening walking. Around 1,500-1,600 citizens from Sonegaon, Sahakar Nagar, Khamla, Pandey Layout and Jaiprakash Nagar use these forested patch for walking. There is also an ancient Murlidhar temple and NMC’s overhead water tank in these patch.
 
 The latest development on the Old Airport road has irked the walkers. “Walking was banned totally for couple of months in 2016. We all enter the premises for walking in an unusual manner. We met the MADC authorities, AAI and   who did not permit opening of gates citing security issues. Now the road is being prepared for traffic,” said walkers.
 
 MADC official also said plan was also to use the Old Airport road for VVIPs and emergency transit to the airport but final decision will be taken after completion of Metro rail works on Wardha road.
 
 
