Vadodara: For the first time since inception of women’s cricket in India, a player from Gujarat is all set to make her debut in the Indian women’s team in the T20 international cricket tournament. 

 Seventeen-year-old   was on Tuesday picked up for the   that will be touring South Africa next month. Yadav, an all-rounder was picked up after her consistent performance over last couple of seasons. 
 
 Nearly three decades ago, two women players from the city, Mangala Babar and Rajkuvardevi Gaekwad, were picked up for the Indian one-day international team but couldn’t make it to the playing XI. Yadav was in contention for the Indian team after she was selected for the India A team last year. “I was hoping that I will get a chance to play in the Indian team after my performance over last few seasons. I am very happy,” Radha told TOI over phone from Mumbai where she is playing an official   match. 
 
 A left-arm spinner, Radha is an agile fielder and wields the willow too. Having played for Mumbai, Radha shifted to   (BCA) in 2014-15. Radha has played for Baroda in U-19 West Zone tournament, senior women’s one-day tournament, senior women’s T20 tournament and U-23 West Zone one-day tournament. 
 
 Radha scored 138 runs and bagged 35 wickets from the 18 U-19 matches she played in the west zone one-day tournament in last two seasons. In senior women’s T20 tournament, Radha played 11 matches in 2016-17 and 2017-18 season wherein she bagged 16 wickets and scored 108 runs. Her consistent performance got her a berth in the India A team. Radha also played for India Blue team in the Women’s Challenger Trophy earlier this month. 
 
 “She performed well in India A tour. So, the selectors decided to give her a chance. We are in process of preparing a team for the upcoming T20 World Cup in November this year. Radha is a promising player. If she performs in SA tour she has the chance to be a part of the world cup team as well,” said Tushar Arothe, Indian women’s team coach. 
 
 “It’s a great moment for BCA and I am sure that Radha’s selection will motivate other girls of our teams,” said Snehal Parikh, BCA secretary (in-charge). 
 
 
