PUNE: The detention of a youth, who was suspected to be involved in the theft of a motorcycle, led the rural police to crack a number of recent thefts at temples as well as vehicle thefts in Pune and   districts.

 The Narayangaon police have recovered 11 stolen motorcycles and cash collectively worth Rs4 lakh from the youth and two other accomplices, including a minor. The suspects have been identified as Somnath Jadhav (19) of Ghargaon and Bhavdya Pathave (22) of Akole in Ahmednagar district.
 
 Assistant police inspector Ajay Gorad said, “The accused were involved in seven thefts at temples located in Pune and Ahmednagar districts.”
 
 Gorad said that the police received a tip-off that one person would reach Pimpalvandi village near Narayangaon on Friday evening with a stolen motorcycle. “We laid a trap and took Jadhav into custody. We brought him to the police station for questioning,” he added.
 
 During sustained questioning, Jadhav admitted that he had stolen the motorcycle from Narayangaon. “He also admitted that, along with two other accomplices, he had stolen valuables from several temples. We later arrested Jadhav’s accomplice Pathave and detained the minor,” Gorad said.
 
 As for the modus operandi, the officer explained that during the day the suspects would carry out a recce of the temples located at lonely spots in the district. “They would visit such temples during the night and break the locks to enter the premises. They would steal the ornaments from the idols and make away with the donation box,” Gorad said.
 
 Over the last few months, the suspects had stolen donation boxes and ornaments from temples in Junnar, Narayangaon, Manchar, Ambegaon and from Ghargaon in Ahmednagar district. “We have detected seven such burglaries,” Gorad said.
 
 In addition, the suspects had also stolen the motorcycles from these areas. “Jadhav and Pathave had previous cases of vehicle thefts against them and had also been convicted for six months last year,” Gorad said.
 
 According to the officer, taking into account the latest arrest, the Narayangaon police have taken four gangs of vehicle thieves into custody in the last six months and recovered 44 motorcycles.
 
 
