Nagpur: The city may face water shortage this summer due poor rainfall last year and Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation’s (VIDC’s) demand that Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) reduce its consumption drastically. Totladoh reservoir, city’s source of water, has only 18.73% stock as on date against 29.32% last year, which is just 190 million cubic metres (mm3). This year’s figure is one of the lowest in past many years. A lot of water is lost due to evaporation in summer months. Water not only reaches the city’s water treatment plants (WTPs) through a pipeline but is also released in Kanhan river, Nagpur’s second source of water. NMC’s reservation in Totladoh is 190 mm3. VIDC says that as per norms, it should only be 106 mm3. A case is going on in Maharashtra Water Resources Regulatory Authority (MWRRA) in this regard. According to LP Ingle, superintending engineer of VIDC, NMC needs only 106 mm3 if the norm of 150 litres per capita per day is taken into account. “NMC is wasting water and hence wants 190 mm3. This extra water is depriving farmers of water for the rabi crop. One rotation needs 70 to 80 mm3. Former MLA Ashish Jaiswal has filed a case in MWRRA due to this reason. We have supported his stand,” he told TOI. Since past few years, Totladoh has had enough water to meet the requirement of Nagpur as well as farmers. However, this year due to poor rainfall, Nagpur can only be supplied at the cost of farmers. The farmers of Ramtek and Mouda tehsils have been demanding that NMC reduce its water consumption. Ingle said that NMC should impose a water cut and use water judiciously. “NMC’s requirement is 106 mm3 and we have that much water. If it uses water over and above this quantity, we will supply it at penal rates,” he added. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal has a different take on the issue. According to him, NMC needs 190 mm3 per year for meeting the requirement of 150 litres per capita per day. “The water reservation committee has allotted 190 mm3 for NMC. The state government’s in its November 16, 2016 government resolution (GR) has issued guidelines to MWRRA on distribution of water. Nagpur city’s share can’t be taken away,” he said. NMC water works executive engineer Sanjay Gaikwad said that Totladoh had sufficient water to meet city’s requirement. “We need 15 mm3 per month. We need stored water for another five months which implies that 75 mm3 is needed. Another 15 to 20 mm3 is needed for release in Kanhan river,” he added. Many other major dams of the region also do not have satisfactory storage as on date. Khindsi’s storage is only 19.22% while Nawegaon-Khairi (the downstream dam of Totladoh) has 41.70%. As a whole Nagpur division’s major dams have 26% storage against 75% in Konkan, 73% in Nashik division and 78% in Pune division.