 has delivered some memorable performances as the fiery Nagma Khatoon in ‘Gangs Of Wasseypur’, the local gangster, Bholi Punjaban in the ‘Fukrey’ franchise and the unapologetic small-town girl Devi Pathak in ‘Masaan’. With Sudhir Mishra’s ‘Daas Dev’, she takes on the mantle of playing  , a role that has been immortalised by many leading ladies in Hindi cinema. In a freewheeling chat with BT, Richa talks about the contemporary twist to the classic lover’s character, how she wants to challenge the archetypes of women through her choice of roles and why people need to change their perspective on a heinous crime like rape. Excerpts…

  
 
 
  Each and every filmmaker wants to present his or her take on the classic. Greek tragedies and William Shakespeare’s plays have been retold many times over the ages. While some filmmakers stick to the classic narrative, others have adapted it to the modern-day era. Both Anurag Kashyap (‘Dev.D’) and   have set it in contemporary times. Classics also lend themselves to adaptations. Also, narratives revolving around love are something people like to watch. Be it unrequited love, dying for love or love after marriage, the tricky thing with this genre is that it has become clichéd, but this story has great potential and can be told again and again.
 
  
 
 
  Paro is the dignified and virtuous archetype of today. She is not disloyal or unfaithful, but when she is slighted on account of her family, she acts out of her ego being hurt. She is a contemporary woman and does not light diyas reminiscing about her lover or runs towards doors which are about to close. That’s what made her exciting for me. While Chandni (Chandramukhi) might use her sexuality to get her way, Paro will not do that. She is a rebel and will not take nonsense lying down even if it comes from close quarters. That’s the sign of a truly independent woman.
 
  
 
 
  ‘Gangs Of Wasseypur’ (GOW) came to me because a million other girls turned it down! I got ‘Fukrey’ because they wanted me in the film and my role in ‘Masaan’ was written for me. I had faith in the narratives, but with regard to my roles, I wasn’t sure how they will be received because they were all risky. I played an older woman in GOW and it took people a long time to see me in another avatar. The portrayal was clearly impactful and that led many to believe that I was not performing, but was actually that character. Even with Bholi Punjaban people believed me to be that way. When I did ‘Masaan’, I had many people come up to me and tell me that I didn’t act in the film. ‘Less is more’ is a concept not many people understand. One of the leading Bollywood awards nominated me in the Best Supporting Role category for ‘Masaan’, even though I was the lead. The industry has strange ways of categorising. Through my choice of roles, I want to see how many archetypes of women I can challenge.
 
  
 
 
  ‘Rape culture’ is something that signifies male entitlement and toxic masculinity. The woman is shamed when the rape happens, when it should be the other way around. We need to change our basic perspective on how we look at rape. There is a lot of stigma attached to it. I had written a 2,000 word blog on the subject last year as it affected me deeply. The conventional narrative is that, rape is izzat lootna. Izzat toh uski lute jo crime karta hai, the one who commits the crime. That’s what we, as a society, collectively need to question. In ‘Section 375’, the whole debate is about consent and force, marzi ya zabardasti. Somebody consenting to have a sexual relationship is very different from somebody being forced into it. It’s a court room drama and I will try to be as balanced as I can in the film.
 
  
 
 
  It’s not a barter where you say, hum tumhen fame de rahein hain, tum humein privacy de do. That’s not how it works. Actors are like other artistes — painters, musicians and writers. Our faces get more exposure, people know what we look like and so, they think they have a right over us. Par haq main aur zidd main farak hota hai, just like there is a difference between being a public person and a public property. I don’t think that there should be a price you pay just because you are a celebrity. We pay exorbitant taxes and that’s more than enough. Talking about privacy, nowadays, we have people sneaking a camera into a funeral. There is no end to this culture. We need to understand, where we have to draw the line. On social media, people abuse us about our work, our appearances and for speaking our mind. That, to me, is also a form of harassment.
 
 
