NEW DELHI: World No. 3 Kidambi Srikanth wanted to announce the arrival of 2018, a year full of title possibilities, with a statement of intent. That's what he had said before the start of the Yonex-Sunrise India Open at the Siri Fort Complex.

 
 Iskander Zulkarnain, the qualifier from Malaysia, had other plans. Ranked 85th in the world, Zulkarnian plotted the upset of the day by pulling the carpet from under Srikanth's feet. Returning like a machine and from 'unrecoverable' angles, as Srikanth later said, Zulkarnain notched his second win against the World No. 3 in two thrilling games (21-19, 21-17) on Thursday.
 
  and PV Sindhu, however, kept alive the dream of a summit clash with easy victories. Saina got past her Danish opponent, second in two days, Line Hojmark Kjaersfeldt 21-12, 21-11.
 
 Top seed   survived a scare in the second round as Gao Fangjie of China decided not to lose without a fight, stretching the battle of attrition to 119 minutes. The scoreboard finally read 21-13, 15-21, 11-21. Marin had an issue to settle with the promising Chinese who had startled her in the 2017 China Open. "I had to realign my focus after I lost the first game. She made me work very hard," said the Rio Games champion who has set the All-England title as her target in 2018.
 
 It was much easier for second seed Sindhu. The defending champion hardly broke sweat, dismissing Linda Zetchiri of Bulgaria 21-10, 21-14. She displaying some powerful smashes that have defined her style of late. "I was pretty much confident going into the game but I made a quite a few unforced errors. I have to marginalise them in the quarters," the top seed said.
 
 The battle, between 29th ranked   and 30th ranked   turned out to be an enthralling one. Dragging it beyond the hour-mark, Sameer chalked up a memorable victory over the experienced Indonesian 21-18, 19-21, 21-17. Younger of the two Verma brothers, Sameer echoed what every other player seems to be talking about. "I need to keep fit. Injuries have taken crucial time out of my career. I have to manage that as I look forward to do well in the Asian Games."
 
 Purapalli Kashyap, with a heavily-strapped shoulder, saw off compatriot   21-19, 19-21, 21-12 to set up a quarterfinal clash with Qiao Bin from China. Currently ranked 55th, Kashyap made the last-eight of a major event after almost 30 months, recovering from one injury and another.
 
  and Satwiksairaj Rankireddy caused a major upset in the mixed doubles when they ousted Malaysian world No. 11 pair of Tan Kian Meng and Lai Pei Jing. "Our Malaysian coach Tan Kim Her has changed combinations and now it seems we have struck the right chord. Satwik's hard-smashing backcourt game supplements mine," said Ashwini, the senior pro.
 
 In a late match, world No. 15 Sai Praneeth also made the quarters. He will now be up against   of Chinese Taipei.
 
