MUMBAI: The recent spate of blazes and building collapses has spurred the   to strengthen its fire department by roping in additional personnel and introducing insurance coverage for them. In his budget speech on Friday, municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta said they will push for the creation of a dedicated  . 

 The BMC has made a budgetary provision of Rs 12 crore for the fire compliance cell and said 70 posts for station officers and 35 for   will be created for it. The BMC has already initiated work on setting up the cell, and for effective implementation of the fire safety Act and its compliance. 
 
 This cell will be separate from the firefighting wing and will carry out regular inspections of various trades, activities and verify fire NOCs. The cell, along with ward officials and private fire licence agencies, will ensure stricter compliance of safety norms. For the inspections, 28 jeeps were purchased by the fire department. 
 
 The BMC has also proposed to build a state-of-the-art drill tower-cum-multi-ultility training stimulator having a facility for fire training, and confined search and rescue and rope rescue operations.
 
 Allocation of over Rs 1 crore was made for an IT-based system, called building inspection system, under which the inspecting officer will be able to monitor the compliance of fire safety norms in buildings on a regular basis and issue notices in case of non-compilance. 
 
 In a first-of-its-kind initiative, an accidental insurance coverage scheme will be introduced for all fire personnel for which neither the firemen nor BMC has to pay premium to the insurance company. The bank holding the personnel’s salary account will give up to Rs 30 lakh cover in case of accident. In 2015, four senior fire officials, including the fire chief, died in a blaze at a Kalbadevi building. 
 
 A time-bound education cost benefit will be provided to the children of deceased fire personnel at no cost to the family.
 
 With many citizens reluctant to move out of dilapidated buildings, the BMC has decided to give water connection at regular rates to redeveloped buildings even if the property taxes are due till the grant of occupation certificate by shifting the tax burden on the saleable component of the scheme. This shall give a relief to the occupants of such buildings. 
 
 Activist Ashoke Pandit pointed out that all systems in place to keep tabs on non-compliances of fire safety norms, but it is all on paper. “The budget as a whole only looks like a routine activity and a large sum year after year continues to remain unspent,” he said.
 
 
