DONA PAULA: In a strong indictment of the casual attitude adopted towards tourism, minister for urban development   D’Souza candidly accepted that the government, both at the Centre and at the state, had failed to act as a facilitator of sustainable tourism. The admission, which came before Goa’s   industry late on Saturday, was supported by secretary for tourism  , who questioned the lack of seriousness in preparing the state tourism masterplan.

 Speaking at the 32nd installation ceremony of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa ( ), D’Souza suggested that Goa continues to struggle to provide basic facilities for tourists such as public toilets, drinking water, affordable transportation, and safety.
 
 “Tourism is a big industry and it creates a lot of employment, but it is not getting the attention it requires,” D’Souza said. 
 
 “It is the failure of the government right from the central government to the state government. We are failing somewhere. We have to correct ourselves, or we will lose all tourists.”
 
 Singh, who was also present at the function, agreed with the minister and questioned the state’s failure to study the tourist carrying capacity of Goa.
 
 “What is Goa’s carrying capacity and the longterm growth plan for tourism in Goa?” Singh said, adding that TTAG was the right agency to carry out the study. “I saw the masterplan but I did not find this exercise being carried out. What I found is just some patchwork, something from here and something from there. This is not a well-coordinated tourism growth plan.”
 
 While admitting that the state government had not given due attention to the tourism sector, D’Souza seemed to disagree with tourism minister Manohar Azagaonkar’s recent trip to America to promote Goa as a tourism destination.
 
 “Advertising is not important,” D’Souza said. “We are talking about fun city and aquarium, but nothing has happened. Every five years, you get a different tourism minister and he does things differently. He doesn’t carry forward the other minister’s dreams. It is important that we have continuity, and unless we do the basics right, things won’t progress.”
 
 Suggesting corrective measures to lift Goa to international standards, the minister said that the tourist has to feel respected, comfortable and entertained.
 
 “We should try to get the basics right,” said D’Souza. “The basics are public toilets and drinking water at monuments, tourist places and beaches. Travel must be not too expensive and there shouldn’t be harassment of the tourists.” 
 
 Both D’Souza and Singh were speaking at the event where hospitality sector businessman Savio Messias was elected to a second term as president of TTAG.
 
 
