NEW DELHI: A vigilance inquiry has been initiated into allegations of corruption levelled by a Supreme Court advocate, Kailash Chandra Mudgil, against   corporation mayor  . This follows an order by the lieutenant-governor, Anil Baijal, to the civic body’s chief vigilance officer (CVO) to “examine” the allegations.

 The allegations — yet to be proved — include a 10% cut to clear the auction of a plot at a market which went for Rs 67 crore, 10% commission for the award of LED installation work to a private company, commission in the purchase of medicines bought for the corporation’s hospitals, commission for protecting unauthorized constructions and alleged favouritism in the award of tenders.
 
 At a press conference on Thursday, Agrawal rejected all the allegations, saying they were baseless. “Tendering is the work of the executive wing and the deliberative wing is nowhere involved in it. I was not involved in any process of tenders at any level. I am ready for any kind of inquiry or investigation so that the truth comes out,” she said.
 
 Mangesh Kashyap, CVO of the north corporation, refused to share details. “I do not want to divulge any information on the matter. It is a subject of inquiry. After the inquiry is completed, the report will be submitted to the LG,” he said. A source said that all files and documents related to the allegations will be thoroughly scanned and the officials involved in the process questioned. The inquiry is likely to be completed within a month.
 
 Though it is considered to be an extended arm of the Central Vigilance Commission, the vigilance department of the   cannot summon the   or question her. Its mandate is restricted to investigating charges of corruption against officials. However, the mayor could be in trouble if the CVO inferred in the final report that the role of the mayor was suspicious. Such an inference can lead to further investigations by appropriate agencies like the CVC.
 
 This development has embarrassed the BJP which had replaced all its sitting councillors in the civic polls because many of them were “perceived to be corrupt”.
 
 Despite speculation in political circles that Agrawal might be replaced, Delhi BJP appeared to be standing behind her. A top BJP functionary, however, said that the allegations of corruption have undermined the corporation in particular and the image of the state unit in general. It was largely because of the BJP’s promise of a corruption-free corporations that the party managed to make a comeback for the third time in 2017.
 
 
