   MUMBAI: How would you expect the parents of a missing child to react on being told that their lost kid has been found? A sigh of relief, a 'Thank God' and then a burst of emotion, perhaps? If so, the reaction of a missing 12-year-old's parent should leave you incredulous. 

 The father of the child who had gone missing from his Kharghar home flatly told the cops that he was not interested in getting his child home. He went a step ahead and asked them to keep him as a guest at the children's remand home until he turned 18! The cops, of course, were left speechless.
 
 The boy, whose family resides in Sector 13, keeps slipping away from home intermittently for reasons unknown. He had left home on March 9 and was traced on Monday after which he was sent to the Children's Remand Home in Mankhurd. Found loitering around on the streets of  , a policeman escorted the child and took him to the children's home.
 
 "Looks like he did not want to return home. So, despite knowing his address, the child feigned ignorance about his address and landed up at the remand home," said a police officer. 
 
 After a two-day sojourn there, the child was stiff bored and was "unable to continue staying there", said a police officer. That's when he told the officials that he lives in Kharghar. A few inquiries at the police station concerned confirmed that a missing person's complaint had indeed been lodged at Kharghar police station. 
 
 When the cops called up the boy's father,   (35), to inform him that the kid had been traced, his brief reply left them a tad shocked. 
 
 Senior inspector Dilip Kale said, "It seems this lad enjoys roaming around, visiting different places. In fact, we've been told that he was once traced to   and brought home by the police."
 
 Psychiatrist and former medical superintendent of   Dr Sanjay Kumawat said that multiple factors could be involved in why a child indulges in such behaviour. "It could stem from behavioural issues, academic performance, family or peer issues... The family should definitely seek a counsellor's help," he said. 
 
 For now, the boy continues to languish at the remand home.
 
 
