Television actor   is the latest celebrity to tie the knot in private, away from the media glare. The actor got married to  , a non-industry girl from Benguluru, in Delhi on February 18. The newly-weds, who have known each other since two years, exchanged rings on Valentine’s Day. “Well, it’s easy to remember the date that way. Gaali nahi padegi kyunki I won’t forget the day,” he chuckles.

 The pre-wedding functions included mehendi and haldi. “The highlight of the mehendi ceremony was my mother dancing with me. My parents are very happy and my father is suddenly looking five years younger,” he beams.
 
 Ask Gaurav why he did not announce the wedding and he replies, “I have never hidden my relationships. I have gone to the world holding my beloved’s hand, but with time, I realised that it backfires. I am a private person now. The marriage was purely dedicated to my family. It was as traditional as it could get with me on a chariot in my baraat. I followed all the rituals as I was told. Main ek achhe bete ki tarah sab karta raha. Given a choice, I would have preferred a destination wedding, but it was always supposed to be a close-knit affair. It’s more of an arranged match and I fell for Hitisha’s simplicity.” 
 
 Gaurav’s mother played an instrumental role in making him enter matrimony. “The whole of last year went by taking care of my mother, as she was unwell. She wanted me to marry in a traditional manner and I decided to do it for her. Also, my other relatives would often wonder when I would tie the knot. They felt that I have become an actor, who gets linked to every co-actor he works with (laughs),” he says. 
 
 The actor has had the media speculating about his personal life ever since he mentioned about Hitisha on 'Bigg Boss Season 10'. He had used the code word ‘High Court’ for her, in an attempt to hold back her identity. “I didn’t try to hide it, as that means manipulating the truth. I was just keeping it private. The person I love should get her due respect and prominence of being the centre of my life. Every relationship deserves respect unless it’s a scandalous affair. I chose to become private about my relationship with Hitisha because of my past relationships. People still can’t stop talking about them. It’s not fair to both them and me, as we have all moved on in life. I may have been in a relationship for two years, but the break-up story continues to be written about for five years. Hitisha isn’t from the industry and it won’t be nice if she is compared to anyone, questioned, judged or speculated upon. She is a strong, beautiful and intelligent young lady, who should be judged for what she is and nothing else,” he signs off.
 
