ZIRAKPUR: Fearing that the officials of   municipal council could seal their flats on Thursday night, hundreds of families living at   in   spent the night outside their flats.

 The residents did not sleep the entire night as they were scared that the officials of the council and police could come again and throw them out of their respective properties. MC officials first came to the society at 9pm on Thursday, but had to leave after the residents started resisting their move.
 
 Anil Kumar, a resident of Imperial Garden housing society, said, “I used to live in a rented accommodation in Sector 12A. So, I bought a flat here. Now they are trying to seal our house. We are being forced to move out of our homes,” he said.
 
 “I had to spend the night on the road with my family and neighbours. We all feared that the MC officials may return and force us to leave our houses,” Anil added.
 
 Kamal Kanta, a house wife said, “I live here with my son, who paid Rs 38 lakh for the flat. The house is registered in his name. Still, we are being forced to leave out home,” said  , a house wife.
 
 “My family had to spend the whole night on the road. We have not eaten anything since Thursday night,” she added.
 
 To protect their homes from the authorities, as many as 150 families spent the entire Thursday night at the entrance gate of the housing society.
 
 The residents said that the building collapsed due to the negligence of the council and the builders. “The authority is troubling the innocent residents instead of taking action against the developers and official involved. We are being targeted for questioning the authority,” the residents said. 
 
 “The municipal council of Zirakpur had given the permission to the builders to construct the buildings. Now we are being harassed for the mistakes made by the administration,” said  , resident of the Imperial Garden. 
 
 “I spent all my hard-earned money to buy a house here. Even after buying this house in a legal way, I am forced to leave it,” said Dr Randhir Singh.
 
 
