Bengaluru: That all six ministers contesting from Bengaluru — five sitting: KJ George, Ramalinga Reddy, Roshan Baig, Krishna Byre Gowda and M Krishnappa and former minister Dinesh Gundu Rao — have managed to retain their seats has come as a big relief for the Congress. 

 However, a close analysis of the results shows that barring Bengaluru development minister KJ George, the others didn’t have it as easy as it was in 2013. Yet the fact that they have managed to retain their seats, reiterates the point that voters in Bengaluru behave no differently than those in rest of Karnataka, choosing representatives based on caste, community and other political factors and not just performance. 
 
 While M Krishnappa’s case became the moot point on Tuesday, given that his fate kept fluctuating through the counting of votes, the others have also lost margins.
 
 Housing minister Krishnappa, who had won by a margin of 32,642 votes in 2013 barely managed to get through this time with a difference of just 2,775 votes. Party insiders and observers noted that while the Vokkaliga backing helped Krishnappa retain his seat, despite a strong consolidation of other voters by his opponents, the same didn’t work for his son Priya Krishna who lost because the community may have swayed towards the BJP candidate in his segment.
 
 Similarly, agriculture minister Krishna Byre Gowda, who had won with a massive margin of 32,400 votes in 2013, garnered just 5,671 more votes than the runner-up this time.
 
 Former minister and KPCC working president Dinesh Gundu Rao also lost several of his voters, as his victory margin dipped to 10,070, compared to 22,607 in 2013. Even senior ministers Roshan Baig and Ramalinga Reddy, considered political veterans, lost their margins.
 
 While Reddy’s margin reduced to 20,478 from 49,048 in 2013, Baig’s came down to 15,040 from 20,855. 
 
 But KJ George, who has been facing one controversy after another, more than doubled his margin from 22,853 votes in 2013 to 53,304 this time. That his constituency —Sarvagnanagar — has a strong minorities base played a key role in his numbers improving.
 
 Political observers feel that despite the party holding on to its numbers in Bengaluru, the performance of the ministers calls for introspection as just community connect may not be enough and the factors contributing to a victory may change. 
 
 Said political analyst NK Mohan Ram: “A major reason why such candidates keep winning is because they are faced with weak candidates. This is either because the opposition has no strong contender, or the candidate manages to form unofficial alliances with opposing parties. But this election clearly shows that may not be enough.”
 
 In fact, not just ministers, most Bengaluru’s sitting MLAs managed to get re-elected. Twenty-two of the 26 sitting MLAs, who contested from Benglauru, have won. 
 
 
