CHANDIGARH: Thousands of medical aspirants from Tricity appeared for the   (AIIMS) online test conducted across various centers on Saturday in abid to seek a spot in 800 MBBS seats across 9   institutes in the country.

 The exam was conducted in two slots. The morning slot commenced at 9.00 am and concluded at 12.30 pm followed by evening slot which lasted from 3.00 pm to 6.30 pm.
 
 The experts from Tricity analysed the paper and revealed that the difficulty level of the paper was moderate.  , a physics expert, said, “The questions were calculative and most of the questions came from Thermodynamics chapter. A few questions were twisted that tested knowledge thoroughly. But the question paper was overall balanced as there were several easy questions from Biology directly from NCERT. Chemistry was moderate and it was beneficial for the students. The easy general knowledge section also countered the trouble posed by Physics.”
 
 Students who appeared for the exam struggled with the length of the physics section and heaved a sigh of relief after attempting the biology section.
 
 Raveena, an AIIMS aspirant, said, “I am expecting to score about 110 to 130. The paper was balances and since I was thorough with the NCERT, Biology was easy. Questions from Zoology were extensively asked in Biology as compared to Botany. The questions in Chemistry ranged were either moderate to difficult. More questions were asked from Coordinate Chemistry while Physics was lengthy and gave me a tough time.”
 
 Arshdeep Kaur, another AIIMS candidate, said, “The exam was easy. Questions from General Awareness section can were the easiest and can prove scoring. Physics was as lengthy and I was expecting the same.”
 
 The result of AIIMS MBBS will be declared on June 18. Since, the exam was computer-based, no answer key or question paper will be released. For first time ever, the counselling will be held in online mode and the schedule for the same will be released after the result is declared.
 
 
