CHENNAI: The Central Bureau of Investigation on Wednesday took over the gutka   probe, in which a Tamil Nadu minister and a former and serving senior police officer are implicated, registering a case on the directions of the Madras high court.

 
  
 
 The CBI’s first information report (FIR) named officials of the central excise and food safety departments, the Tamil Nadu government and private individuals in a criminal conspiracy and under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 The case involves the illegal import, manufacture and sale of gutka and tobacco derivatives including several brands of   in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The state enforced a gutka ban in 2013.
 
 Income tax sleuths unearthed the scam in July 2017, with a the discovery of a diary in raids on godowns, offices and residences of gutka baron Madhava Rao, who it later charged with tax evasion of Rs 250 crore. During the raids, the department seized a diary with the names of people allegedly on the payroll of gutka manufacturers.
 
 “The clandestine gutka business is a crime against society, which needs to be curbed,” a bench comprising Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice Abdul Quddhose said, issuing directions on PILs by DMK MLA J Anbazhagan and activist K R ‘Traffic’ Ramaswamy on April 26.
 
 “We deem it appropriate to direct the CBI to investigate the illegal manufacture, import, supply, distribution and sale of gutka and other forms of chewable tobacco... detect and take action against those involved in the offence... in connivance with the public/government servants,” the bench said.
 
 Then chief minister J Jayalalithaa had announced the ban in the assembly on May 8, 2013. The ban came into effect a month later.
 
 A 13-year-old schoolboy was hospitalised after eating a ganja-filled chocolate in RK Nagar, Jayalalithaa’s constituency, in July 2016, prompting police raids on Madhava Rao, manufacturer of the MDM brand, on July 8, 2016, and the seizure of gutka products.
 
 In I-T raids that followed, sleuths discovered the diary, containing details of monetary transactions involving police officers, the minister and various bureaucrats.
 
 The I-T department sent a confidential communication to then DGP Ashok Kumar on August 11, 2017. The DGP on September 2 sent a classified letter to the CM, including details of the case. The government forwarded the case that month to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, which filed a case but failed to file a chargesheet within six months.
 
 I-T sleuths found the DGP’s letter during searches of Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden residence three months later, on November 17.
 
 
