PANAJI: Sydney Lemos’s fairytale to lure investors for his   scheme was based on one single component: A software that his company, Exential, had developed and which no other forex company possessed.

 “This software was one of their major selling tools,” a Goan acquaintance of   told TOI from Dubai.
 
 Lemos promised his investors returns of Rs 1.2 lakh a month for making a one-time investment of Rs 15 lakh.
 
 “They told the investors that the software kept a check on the forex rates and would automatically cut off trading if it went into a loss. They said they were the only ones who had this software developed specially for trading. Many people believed it and lost their money,” he said.
 
 Former employees of Exential, who are now back in Goa, said the trouble began around October 2015, when they started seeing clients walking into their office and demanding their money from Lemos and wife  .
 
 “Clients, who were used to getting their returns between the 20th and 25th of every month began to panic when the payment started getting delayed or stopped altogether,” an ex-employee told TOI.
 
 “Sydney had an influential local from Dubai as his partner. He also had an agent based in Delhi to attract investors. Sydney and Valany later fell out with this agent, who started warning his clients and encouraged them to file cases against the duo,” he said.
 
 The Dubai acquaintance said Valany’s sister worked for Emirates and that is how many employees of the airlines invested in the Ponzi scheme. “People of all nationalities, including Goans, invested their money. Many of them, who got good returns initially, reinvested, while some took their money and didn’t invest again in the company,” he said.
 
 “Some investors were based in Goa, but after they heard about the scheme, they sent money from here to invest in Exential,” the former staffer said.
 
 “Lemos would host parties and it was compulsory for his staff to attend. He would take them to restaurants and clubs where the Goan community was present. And Valany would then sift through their photos and decide on the pictures that could be uploaded on social media,” the Dubai acquaintance said.
 
 The ex-employee confirmed that they were made to attend the parties. “We don’t know the reason for this, but it was an unsaid rule that we had to attend the party if invited,” he said.
 
 Lemos’s team of 60 people mostly consisted of young Goan footballers, who had gone to play for his FC Bardez club in Dubai and given a job in his company.
 
 A majority of them didn’t even realise their boss was cheating people. “They had full faith in Sydney and even thought others were jealous of the company’s success,” the Goan in Dubai said.
 
 The employees also received regular promotions and were given designations like HR manager to build the hype. Ryan de Souza, who has also been awarded over 500 years in jail along with Lemos, was among the few he employed who had some work experience. Just four months before the company was shut down, Lemos had made Ryan a senior accounts specialist in his company, his father had told TOI.
 
 While the chorus for 25-year-old Ryan’s innocence is growing back home, members of the Goan community in Dubai and his friends and acquaintances in Goa have begun pooling in resources to file a strong appeal.
 
 Ryan’s brother in Dubai is pursuing the case and is expected to file an appeal in the Dubai court. 
 
 “At one point, Goans in Dubai were proud to see a fellow Goan doing well. People were happy for him. Even if there was a small incident involving Goans, we would get affected. Now the name of the Goan community has taken a beating. There is some sympathy for Ryan, but anger towards Sydney and Valany, because she played a major role in the operations of the company and in building up the hype surrounding it,” the Dubai acquaintance said. 
 
 
