New Delhi: A   gutted a   in   near New Friend’s Colony on Wednesday afternoon. The building had some   and a   on the ground floor from where the fire is suspected to have spread. No injuries were reported from the building. However, two men were   from a   on the first floor.

 The incident was reported around 2pm when locals noticed smoke from behind the departmental store. 
 
 Employees of the store said that a spark from an airconditioner unit from an adjacent building, which was protruding outside, was the source of the blaze. The locals alerted the employees and an alarm was raised, and almost all the employees evacuated the building. The fire department deployed 22 fire engines to douse the flames which came under control after three hours.
 
 Fire officials said that the building had a glass scaffolding that started melting due to the extreme heat. Two of the floors were used as store rooms. “We suspect the fire to have begun from a short circuit in one of the store rooms that was stuffed with inflammable materials,” said a senior fire official. 
 
 Preliminary enquiry suggests that the fire began somewhere between the first and the second floor and spread upwards.
 
 The blaze was so severe that it completely damaged a coaching centre on the fourth floor of the building. Some adjacent buildings were also damaged in the blaze. Fire officials said that they could control the flames since the building is located at a corner plot on a main road.
 
 During the operations, two employees stuck on the first floor found trapped near the stairs were rescued by the fire team through a window.
 
 Employees say that goods worth several lakhs were damaged due to the blaze. They had initially tried to douse the flames with fire extinguishers but it had spread rapidly due to which they had to abandon the building.
 
 DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said that a case under sections of causing damage with fire has been registered. A crime and forensic team has been called in to find out the reason behind the fire.
 
 
