When 26-year-old   Rajan, a frequent commuter from  , opted to hire a non-metered autorickshaw in   to reach his sister’s place in  , the driver asked Rs 50 for the 4km journey. A shocked Vivek who realised that the fare was more than the bus fare between Trichy and Thanjavur, turned to using a mobile application based autorickshaw service that charges Rs 30 for the same ride. Autorickshaw drivers unwilling to reduce their exorbitant fares are losing business to application-based autorickshaws that are thriving in Trichy. Passengers preferring application-based autorickshaws are showing an increase of 20-25% every month since the auto drivers here are reluctant to operate with meters with a fixed tariff.

 Regional transport department statistics claim that about 9,000 registered autorickshaws are operating in the city and the number is growing by 5% every year. While a majority of the neighbourhoods here are within 7 km radius, tariff charged by autorickshaws without meters are unreasonable. While the numbers of app-based autorickshaws increase every day, reluctance to use meters and lack of unity among the non-metered autorickshaw drivers were cited as the reasons for the downfall of their business. As they are struggling to cope up with the competition, the app-based cabs, autorickshaws and now two-wheeler taxis are gaining ground. "If application-based autorickshaws were available for cheap fares, passengers would certainly prefer them. Unless the autos here install meters and charge a fixed tariff, online transportation firms will have a field day," Vivek Rajan said.
 
 The Centre of   (CITU) had proposed a metered autorickshaw system some time ago, but nothing has materialised so far. "The absence of unity among autorickshaw drivers and their unions are to be blamed. We are planning to organise an umbrella body for auto drivers to represent our demand to fix a tariff slab for metered autorickshaws," V Manalithasan, district secretary,   told TOI. A bunch of auto drivers termed the lack of support from the state government as another reason for the delay in framing a fixed tariff. When contacted, a senior official with the state transport department said, "There were representations from autorickshaw associations to frame a fixed tariff. In the next few months we will be streamlining the tariff charged by the autorickshaws."
 
 
