BATHINDA: The second job fair under the Punjab government’s ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ project launched on Tuesday at Maharaja Ranjit Singh Punjab Technical University (MRSPTU), started off on a low note. It failed to get the desired response from job seekers on the first day. Apparently, low salary package offered by various companies has dissuaded job seekers from turning up for the fair.

 According to information, the university officials were expecting nearly 1,000 job seekers for engineering and management streams but only about 150 unemployed youths turned up on the first day. The companies, which had put up counters to interview the prospective candidates, kept waiting for potential employees.
 
 While 44 firms have reportedly expressed interest for interviewing candidates during the four-day event, 13 companies arrived on the first day. The companies offered wages from Rs 7,000 to 10,000 per month for graduates and from Rs 10,000-15,000 per month for engineering pass-outs.
 
 “I finished B Tech in mechanical engineering in 2016 but I failed to get any job. Now I have come here to get a job at any salary, even if it is Rs 7,000-8,000 per month,” said one aspirant   of Talwandi Sabo.
 
 Punjab finance and employment generation minister Manpreet Singh Badal inaugurated the fair and admitted that the salaries being offered were low. He said it was better to get low wages than sitting idle at home. “Salary at the start is not always the end of the game as it is offered as per the ability. After getting experience and exposure, aspirants will get more money,” the minister said.
 
 Monika, an MCA pass-out from Gidderbaha in Muktsar district, came to the event to get a job. She said, “I am ready to take any job for any amount to support my family.”
 
 Vice-chancellor Professor   said, “Youths get corporate experience at the start of their career. By getting exposure, one will be able to get jobs with lucrative pay packages.”
 
 MRSPTU training and placement officer Rajesh Gupta admitted that job seekers had not shown much enthusiasm for the job fair. “We were expecting nearly 1,000 aspirants but only 150 have turned up,” he said.
 
 Manpreet said nearly 1,000 companies had approached the Punjab government. “We intend to provide 36,000 jobs this season as nearly 70,000 have applied for jobs. In the ongoing year, the state government has a target to ensure that 4 lakh unemployed youth get jobs. The state government has decided to organize 40 such job fairs in a year,” said the finance minister.
 
 
