T V Dhinakaran is ready to do business with anyone in the  , but not chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami (EPS) and his deputy O Panneerselvam (OPS). "OPS is functioning as an agent of the BJP," and EPS is supporting the   "fearing some cases". The BJP even gave EPS and OPS the ‘two leaves’ symbol, still they could not hold the party with them, said Dhinakaran in an   with D Govardan of TOI. Excerpts:

 Can TTV, EPS and OPS be together again?
 
 How will betrayers come back to us? We made both of them chief minister. It was only at the behest of the BJP that he (OPS) changed his mind two days after giving his consent for our general secretary (V K Sasikala) to become CM.
 
 Is the   a party, forum or front?
 
 It is a party. Ours is not a new party, but one with a new name. AMMK has been launched to reclaim the AIADMK. Though Election Commission has given the party name and symbol to them, we have not given up our claim. There is a case in court.
 
 What are the plans and priorities of AMMK?
 
 Almost 80% of branch secretaries Amma appointed are with us. Also, 90% of cadres support us. The moment the verdict on 18 MLAs comes, many more MLAs will join us. Even with the symbol (two leaves), they could not win. Eventually we will get the symbol too.
 
 Will you support the DMK if it moves a no-confidence motion?
 
 No one needs to move one. The court will order a floor test. The government has only 110 (MLAs) and they cannot prove majority. Voting against the government does not mean aligning with the DMK. If a new CM has to come, it will be from among the 18 MLAs.
 
 Why not you?
 
 I am not interested in taking this route. Our aim is to go to the people and contest in all 234 seats along with our alliance partners. I am sure people will give me that chance (to become CM).
 
 Who will be your alliance partners?
 
 We will not go with the BJP. We cannot align with the DMK too. Anyone else is welcome. Of course, not those in power, especially the ministers. People of Tamil Nadu want this government to go. They hate this government. It is functioning as a commission mandi. Even the (AIADMK) protests in Parliament is to save the BJP.
 
 What do you feel about Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan entering politics?
 
 Anyone including actors can start a party. But people alone will decide who will come to power. Rajinikanth had opposed the AIADMK in 1996. No one from our party will support him. Even Kamal has started a party against us. Whoever comes, we are not worried as our voters are committed. Large crowds attend our meetings. A political leader (Vaiko) has been chiding me for believing that crowds will turn into votes. He could not succeed because people look at him as someone who betrayed Karunanidhi.
 
 How do you react to charges that your party is attracting crowd as you splurge money?
 
 It was the ruling AIADMK that gave money in   and not us. They paid `6,000 per vote. If cadres are with us because of money, then they should have been with them (EPS and OPS). If people support us, you charge that it is because of (our) distributing money. With the victory of an independent in a byelection, we rewrote history in R K Nagar. Do you think people voted for us trusting our promise to pay them later? Even if it is true, does not that mean they believe us more than others. It was a malicious campaign, just the way people spread rumours that Chinnamma (V K Sasikala) killed Amma. The commission of inquiry will find the truth.
 
 Why is the BJP targeting you?
 
 In 2014, Amma did not agree for an alliance with them. That was her own decision. They thought we were behind that decision. They are trying to wipe us out of the political scene. That is why they are supporting the two puppets in the state government as per Gurumurthy’s advice. Now they know the truth and do not know what to do. We have no personal enmity with the BJP, while politically we cannot align with them.
 
 Does Sasikala advise you?
 
 I consult her before taking important decisions.
 
 
