ISLAMABAD: Mumbai attack mastermind   on Tuesday requested the United Nations to send its officials to Jamaat-ud Dawa’s offices to check whether he was involved in terrorist or humanitarian activities.

 Saeed’s request comes two days ahead of the visit of the UNSC’s sanctions monitoring team to Pakistan on a two-day trip to assess the country’s compliance with the world body’s sanctions regime. The   special team will arrive here on Thursday.
 
 Saeed also filed a petition in the Lahore HC seeking protection from arrest ahead of the UNSC team’s arrival. He filed the petition through his counsel A K Dogar seeking the court’s direction to the PML-N government restraining it from arresting him and taking action against JuD and Falah-i-Insaniat Foundation, which is included in the UNSC sanctions list.
 
 “Everyone can observe our humanitarian work and activities,” Saeed said.
 
 “A malicious campaign has been launched in media against me and JuD in order to please America and India. The campaign aimed at banning JuD activities in Pakistan will not be fruitful for the country’s sovereignty,” the   founder said.“Actually, Indians as well as our officials... are against us, but we are standing here with dignity and pride and will never let down the Kashmir cause,” he added.
 
 Saeed said the country’s home minister, Ahsan Iqbal, instead of following the court orders, was giving false statements against JuD under the “influence” of the Indian propaganda.The people of Pakistan, Saeed said, have to realise the existing situation, as the country is going through a very crucial phase as both India and the US are “hatching a conspiracy” against the country’s sovereignty.
 
 “India and the US are threatened with Pakistan’s atomic assets and I warn you that the issue is not Hafiz Saeed but our nuclear assets,” Saeed said.
 
 
 Retracting from his earlier statement that no action can be taken against Mumbai attacks mastermind Hafiz Saeed since no case was registered against him in Pakistan, PM   has now said his government will push ahead with its plans to seize control of charities run by the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) chief. The timing of UNSC special team’s visit is coupled with increased pressure on Pakistan from the US and India, accusing it of inadequate implementation of the sanctions on Saeed and the militant outfits linked to him.
 
