KOLKATA: The state government has decided to suspend all rides at  , except Toy Train and plain bicycles for the entire summer after a two-member inquiry committee submitted its report before the state on Friday evening.

 Sources said the report mentioned no major human negligence behind the inflatable ‘Bouncy Castle’ ride accident last Sunday that left 12 kids injured, one of whom is still in ventilation and blamed natural calamity for the mishap.
 
 
 Debasis Sen, the chairman of HIDCO, the government body in charge of the upkeep of the park, submitted the report alongwith a   footage to the urban development department. The video was recorded just before the incident.
 
 “I have seen the video and went through the report in detail. The video shows a storm approaching the park, which turned into a sort of tornado and lifted the ride around 8feet in the air before it crashed. The kids, who fell on the grass received minor injuries but those who fell on the concrete pathway were severely injured,” said  , the state urban development minister.
 
 Hakim said they have decided to keep all rides at Eco Park suspended for the entire season of norwesters after going through the report in detail.
 
 “The rides can resume after the season of norwester ends but the park authorities will be in constant touch with the weather department. In case of any warning or forecast of squall, thunderstorm or Norwester, all the rides will be immediately closed,” Hakim told 
 .
 
 The order, however, came as a shock for the contractors who run the different rides as they do not know when they will be back at work. “There are around 50 boatmen over here, who run shikaras. With the rides suspended, I don’t know what to do?” said  , a boatman.
 
 Asim Mondal, who run the kayak, zorb and duo cycles, says he would approach the government once he receives a written communication from the park authorities. “So far, the park manager has verbally informed us about the indefinite closure but I don’t think this is the best way to prevent an accident,” said Mondal.
 
 HIDCO chairperson  , however, said he has submitted the report and would abide by whatever the government decides. “I have personally submitted the report before the minister. We would stick to whatever the government asks us to do to prevent any further mishaps,” said Sen.
 
 
