TRICHY: The video of an unauthorized person sewing up a male body after autopsy at a government hospital at   in   has sparked a controversy leading to the suspension of three hospital workers here on Friday. The washing contractor, Veeramani, 50, dressed in a lungi and shirt, was seen stitching up the incision in the body from the stomach to the chest. 

 The video also showed a hospital worker in uniform sewing up the incision on the head. Veeramani left the scene after a staff member of the hospital who videographed the scene questioned his unauthorised entry into the autopsy room. Later, the hospital worker continued stitching up the body. The incident prompted the joint director of health services (JDHS), Trichy, Dr S  , to hold an inquiry into the violation of norm and place three hospital workers under suspension. “On preliminary inquiry, we found it appropriate to suspend the three hospital workers on duty on the day for involving an outsider to stitch up the body. The contract of the laundry man has also been suspended,” Begum told TOI.
 
 The JDHS also said that the names of the suspended hospital workers could be revealed only after a thorough inquiry. “The inquiry report will be sent to the director of medical science and the Trichy district collector,” she said. Going by the statement of the staff, the incident happened on April 24. The post-mortem was done by a duty doctor on the body of a man who drowned near Trichy.
 
 The JDHS also summoned 11 staff members including the duty doctor who performed the post-mortem. The washing contractor admitted to having stitched up the body. But he maintained that he had done it to help the hospital worker,  , on his request as there were two bodies for post-mortem that day. Veeramani was responsible for washing the bed-sheets of patients every day in the backyard of the hospital.
 
 Asked if the washing contractor was roped in for stitching up the body on some other days, JDHS maintained that it was the only occasion he had indulged in the violation. “As per my inquiry, he committed the violation one day only,” said Dr Samsath.
 
 
