THANE: A tight slap, a powerful punch on the face or banging the head on the wall seem to be some of the acceptable acts of an irate husband upset by his wife’s ‘disobedient’ behaviour. 

 A shocking 49% (2,266) of the 4,658 women respondents from  , who participated in a comprehensive survey by the   (NFHS) 2015-16, approved of   against women; they simply refused to accept the physical assault on them as barbaric. 
 
 Instead, most   justified the beating by their husband as some sort of natural consequence if they ignored their core duties, like disrespecting his parents and other family members, neglecting house work or children or even refusing sex. Among the many reasons for the violence and abuse inside their homes, 75% of the victims blamed the husband’s   problems, which made them aggressive.
 
 Only 16% of the 3,672 married women respondents said their husbands are teetotalers, but that did not stop them from raising their hand on them. 
 
 “When a person is under the influence of alcohol, there is no inhibition and they forget to differentiate between right and wrong, and society norms,” said Dr Aditi Acharya, psychiatrist and marriage counsellor. “It is also seen that most of these men are suspicious of their wives because they resort to drinking and are unable to spend quality time with her.” 
 
 
 
 
 The survey showed that when it came to the form of violence, almost 20% of the women respondents said they were slapped by their spouse. Also, irrespective of being emotionally, physically and sexually assaulted by husband, in-laws or other family members, only 9% of women sought for help.
 
 The survey was carried out among 4,658 women and 4,497 men across Maharashtra in the 15-49 age group.
 
 Thane mayor Meenakshi Shinde said, “I often attend to domestic violence cases, but the victims choose to be submissive, be it for tradition or for family values. Also, these women lack the confidence to stand up to their violent hubands, irrespective of the fact that they are able managers of home, children and finances. Wives should fight for their rights and have faith in themselves and the law enforcement. They should not think of what the society would think, instead do what’s right for them.”
 
 Mental experts also claimed that this submissive attitude of women is mostly due to lack of independence. 
 
 “This thinking is usually seen among those who are dependent on their spouse or lack higher education. It is also seen that some women’s attitudes change when they become in-laws. Though they would not accept their husband beating them, they would agree to the act when they become mother-in-laws. They start feeling that their son should correct his wife if she’s making a mistake and even use violence, if she disobeys him,” said Dr Acharya.
 
 
