Panaji:   may be calling bandh after bandh demanding release of the Mhadei   and even violating the   water disputes tribunal order and blocking water to Goa, but the project across the border that involves large-scale deforestation and massive excavations is going to create huge social, economic and ecological imbalance in the area.

 In a bid to divert 7.56TMC of water from the Kalsa tributary and other sources, Karnataka government had commenced work in October 2006 on building a 3-odd-km-long canal for a trans-basin transfer from the Mhadei to the Malaprabha basin and a fortnight ago blocked the course of the tributary.
 
 The diversion projects will reduce the flow of water leading to flood hazards and impacting groundwater discharge and biological activity affecting the 1,500-endemic species in the Western Ghats, says Manoj Ibrampurkar, assistant professor of hydrogeology at a city college.
 
 “There will be multiple effects due to sedimentation (siltation) that will occur due to reduced flow,” he says. When the river velocity slows down, its carrying capacity is also reduced and deposition of silt can reduce its depth and water holding capacity, causing floods in extreme events. 
 
 The Kalsa water diversion at Kankumbi is one of the 12 projects in the biodiversity hotspot of the Sahyadris that Karnataka has proposed in a phased manner purportedly to cater to drinking water needs of the people in Huballi and other areas. 
 
 “The Kalsa tributary flows only till January-February. The water retention will occur as usual in the stream, but the flow will be affected,” says a water resources department (WRD) official.
 
 Any obstruction in the natural course of the water body can affect the hydrological dynamics. “If the work is done in the stream itself, the silt can get inside and reduce its carrying capacity. This has other multiple effects, as there is reduction in volume of water flow and then it reduces the velocity and speed of the flow,” says Ibrampurkar.
 
 The hydrogeologist had some years ago assessed and analysed possible implications of Karnataka’s projects. “It is estimated that the watersheds of the proposed river water retention structures will retain 21 i and 22% of the non- monsoon base flow,” states the study.
 
 “The flow had reduced due to the blocking of the Kalsa nullah, but the effects may not be felt immediately,” says water resources minister Vinod Paleykar.
 
 WRD officials endorse a study of groundwater and surface water resources for sustainable development. “The possible reduction in flow may be felt later and has to be studied,” Paleykar says.
 
 “It is essential to generate field-based primary data which is scientifically valid and technically acceptable,” adds Ibrampurkar.
 
 
