GURUGRAM: An 18-year-old   student was kidnapped in Yamunanagar, allegedly by an old friend from her school, and brought to the city, where she was held   at a   accommodation and raped repeatedly for 3-4 days last month. 

 The youth, along with his aides, later dropped her at her college hostel and fled.
 
 Cops picked up Dharmender Gujjar (21), alias Dhaman, the school friend and main accused, on Saturday following a complaint filed by the girl at the women’s police station on Friday. Dhaman’s two accomplices are still at large.
 
 The girl is a student of a Yamunanagar college. 
 
 In her complaint, the girl, originally from Faridabad, said she knew Dhaman from her days at a school in Jaipur, where the two studied together for the Plus 2 course. 
 
 According to her, she had been in touch with Dhaman, who currently sells milk in Gurugram, even after passing out of the school, but claimed to have severed ties a few months ago apparently after the youth proposed marriage to her.
 
 She said after a gap of about two months, Dhaman¸ a resident of Shakti Nagar, suddenly called her on April 13 and insisted on a meeting with her. He allegedly also threatened to kill her if she did not come.
 
 The girl, who was in her hostel then, eventually went to meet him at Yamunagar bus stand.
 
 “When I reached the bus stand, I saw him with his two friends Manan and Honey in a white Scorpio. They forced me to sit in the car and drove to Gurugram. On the way, they threatened to kill me and my family if I raised any alarm. Then, Dhaman took me to Dev PG near Naharpur Rupa village. He held me captive in a room for three days and raped me repeatedly,” the girl claimed in her complaint.
 
 On those days, whenever her parents called her on her mobile phone, Dhaman asked her to talk ‘normally’ and threatened her against disclosing anything. “I was scared and could not say anything,” she added.
 
 Finally, on April 17, Dhaman and Manan drove her back in the same car and dropped her at the college hostel. 
 
 On May 3 (Thursday), she came home to her parents who currently live in Gurugram’s Sector 10 and disclosed everything to her mother.
 
 Later, on Friday, she along with her mother went to the women’s police station and filed a complaint. Police took her to the Civil Hospital, where doctors confirmed  . On Saturday, she recorded her statement before a magistrate.
 
 Police said Dhaman had been arrested and booked under sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. He would be produced before a duty magistrate on Sunday.
 
 “We are now questioning him and conducting raids to nab his two friends Manan and Honey. They will be arrested soon,” said inspector Poonam Singh, SHO, the women police station.
 
 
