NEW DELHI: The controversy over AAP’s nominees for   took a new turn on Saturday with Delhi Congress president   filing an objection to the candidature of N D Gupta for allegedly holding an   as a trustee of the   (NPS Trust). Gupta in his reply before the returning officer rejected the allegation. The returning officer issued a notice and after hearing the parties reserved the order for Monday. The scrutiny of the RS nominations was scheduled for Saturday.

 Later in the evening, the Congress filed a second objection, alleging that Gupta was still holding the post of chairman of the audit committee of the board of NPS Trust. The RO then issued a fresh notice to Gupta seeking his response.
 
 Gupta said in his reply that he had resigned from the NPS Trust on December 29, days before filing his nomination. “It is submitted that the NPS Trust is not an “office”. The said Trust is not an “office under government” and also is not an office of profit under government,” Gupta said, citing various provisions of the law. He also stated that “it is pertinent to submit that the name of the Trust does not find any mention in any of the schedules to the Parliament (Prevention of Disqualification Act 1959.”
 
 “Due to operation of section 3 sub-section (I) of the Parliament (Prevention of Disqualification Act 1959) as amended in 2006, any objections which could have been raised with respect to the undersigned holding a post of trustee in the said trust also does not stand and should be rejected forthwith and ab initio,” Gupta said. 
 
 Maken in his objection alleged: “As per the latest information available on the official website of the NPS (i.e.http://www.npstrust.org.in/) Shri N.D.Gupta was appointed as a trustee of the Rs 1,74,500-crore NPS Trust on March 30, 2015, by the BJP government at the Centre and continues to be a trustee till date.” He further alleged that this was an office of profit of the Government of India as the trustee is appointed by the government and the NPS Trust manages the pensions of all government employees. 
 
 He had further stated that “the said office is not protected under Parliament (Prevention of Disqualification) Act, 1959 and is directly hit by Article 102 of Constitution of India. Hence, the candidature of N D Gupta is liable to be rejected immediately”.
 
  AAP’s Delhi chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj claimed that under the law, only the candidates or their election agents can raise objections at the stage of scrutiny of nominations. “ Due to lack of knowledge or under pressure, the RO invited Maken to lead evidence. This defies all laid down principles,” he said. 
 
 
