THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The LDF is expected to take a decision on the re-induction of Nationalist  's (NCP) Elathur MLA A K   into the state cabinet soon. It is reliably learnt that the swearing in of Saseendran will take place after the ongoing Budget session of the state assembly concludes, on February 7.

 The development comes in the backdrop of Saseendran being acquitted by the Thiruvananthapuram chief judicial magistrate court in a sexual harassment case on Saturday, citing lack of sufficient evidence.
 
 The case pertained to an audio tape aired by a newly-launched TV channel in which Saseendran allegedly indulged in explicitly sexual talk with a female journalist of the channel who had contacted him as part of an assignment. The resultant controversy had led to Saseendran's resignation as the state transport minister in March.
 
 It is learnt that the NCP leadership will officially hand over the letter seeking the re-induction of Saseendran to the LDF leadership on Monday. The state leaders of the party are currently in talks with the national leadership to chalk out the next course of action. Saseendran, meanwhile, has been called to New Delhi by the national leadership.
 
 
  
 
 There is also no serious opposition within the party to Saseendran's re-induction. It has already been decided that any one of the party's two MLAs who comes out clean first from their court cases will be the NCP nominee to the cabinet.
 
 The second MLA,  , had to forfeit the transport minister's post which he had taken over from Saseendran, following a controversy over an alleged land encroachment by a resort he owns in Alappuzha district.
 
 There were reports that Chandy's supporters are not happy with Saseendran returning to the cabinet and they wanted the party leadership to take a decision only after the cases against Chandy are disposed.
 
 Meanwhile, CPI has welcomed Saseendran's return to the cabinet. Party state secretary   said that there was nothing wrong in Saseendran coming back to the cabinet now. The party had taken the position that Saseendran could come back once the court clears his name, he said.
 
 However, opposition leader   has slammed the out-of-court settlement reached in the case against Saseendran. "The LDF has lost its face. They have no right to speak about morality. Everyone heard had the voice of Saseendran through the channel and what he had said," said Chennithala.
 
 
