HYDERABAD: Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority director, planning, K   has constructed a penthouse on the terrace of his posh villa in   without permission of GHMC.

 Telangana Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths opened the house of Purushottam, who is facing a disproportionate assets (DA) case, at Sagar Society in Banjara Hills on Sunday.
 
  
  not only identified the illegal penthouse, but also found foreign liquor bottles in violation of the Excise Act. Excise enforcement sleuths booked a separate case against   for stocking imported liquor beyond the permissible limit.
 
 ACB sleuths seized diamond-studded jewellery, including a kg gold, while appraisers were evaluating the worth of diamonds. ACB inspector Sk Ghouse Azad told TOI, “During the search on Sunday, we found diamond, gold and silver articles worth ₹50 lakh and ₹1.05 lakh cash and demonetised currency of ₹9,000 and $501 and 265 UAE dirhams and ₹20 lakh worth saris and foreign liquor worth ₹70,000,”
 
 “He was in possession of 14 liquor bottles imported from the UAE, Singapore and the US and also locally-made. It was alleged that Purushottam had spent ₹40 lakh on liquor during his daughter’s wedding in November 2016,” Ghouse added.
 
 The officials said the GHMC had granted ground plus one (G+1) permission for the villa in 2004-05 in the name of Purushottam Reddy’s wife,  .
 
 “The villa is located on a 500-square yard area plot at Sagar Society on Road Number 2, Banjara Hills. In the old DA case, the house has been listed. We have taken evaluation report of the last case. We are again evaluating the house as it has been remodelled. A lift has been added to the house. A penthouse has been constructed in 2016 without permission from municipal authorities,” ACB engineering experts visited the house and were evaluating its value.
 
 ACB officials had first arrested Purushottam in 2009 when he was with GHMC and around ₹4 crore worth properties were unearthed then and now the investigation officials estimate that the properties could be worth over ₹11crore.
 
 ACB officials said Vijaya Reddy appeared 45 days after she left her residence.
 
 
