MADURAI: Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) reconstituted 59 boards of studies to design curricula for under graduate and post graduate courses offered by affiliated colleges. It will also include industry experts as members, wherever applicable, vice-chancellor of MKU P P   announced as he presented his report of the university at the   meeting on Friday. 

 Apart from the usual 9 to 10 academicians on the board of studies, these reconstituted boards will have one alumna, one representative from industry, business, social organisation and one foreign expert to strengthen curricula of all subjects.
 
 The constituted board of studies consists of 11 UG boards, 11 PG boards and 37 UG/PG combined boards having a total of 763 members, among whom 585 are academicians, 60 industrial experts, 59 alumni and 59 foreign experts. Faculty members as many as 129 from MKU, 271 from affiliated colleges, 128 from other universities and 43 from other collages in   and 15 from other states are represented in these reconstituted board of studies, VC said.
 
 In the month of December, the university conducted a one-day seminar on enhancement of quality of curricula for chairpersons and members of UG/PG board of studies where principal secretary higher education   participated. An 11-member curriculum coordination committee was also formed which will be led by syndicate member M Lellis Thivagar.
 
 The university has proposed to conduct an international seminar at university premises shortly on attitude, values, knowledge and skill-oriented curricula for student empowerment and employability for members of curriculum coordination committee, chairmen of all 59 boards of studies, principal and deans of autonomous colleges, 3 chairpersons of board of studies in arts, science and languages from each autonomous college.
 
 The university has also planned to conduct a centralised meeting of all 59 boards of studies under a single roof. There will be four sittings of boards scheduled on January 18, 19, 24 and 25. Model curricula of all the courses in high quality universities in India and abroad will be given to each board along with text books for revamping of curricula of the course of MKU, VC stated.
 
 Senate was also informed that two new colleges have been established in the academic year 2017 – 18 namely   at   and Sri Vidya College of Arts and Science at Virudhunagar. Both of them are co-educational self-financed institutions. Further affiliation has been granted to 27 UG courses, 11 PG courses, 2 M Phil courses, 3   courses and 1 PG Diploma course in this academic year. 
 
 
