CHANDIGARH: Top Haryana athletes like Neeraj Chopra, Manoj Kumar, Vinesh Phogat and Bajrang Punia have decided to boycott a ceremony organised by the Haryana government in Panchkula on April 26 to honour Gold Coast Commonwealth Games medallists.

 
 
 
 The athletes are protesting against a move by the Haryana government that could potentially reduce award money to   medallists.
 
 Javelin thrower Neeraj Chopra said, “If senior players feel injustice is being done, then I will follow them. They are senior and are taking the right decision (to boycott the ceremony).”
 
 
 
 
 
 According to Haryana’s sports policy, a CWG gold medallist from the state is to get Rs 1.5 crore, a silver medallist Rs 75 lakh and a bronze medallist Rs 50 lakh. But the state government recently stated that in case of athletes who represent institutions such as the   or Railways and are given cash prizes by them, the Haryana government would deduct the amount given by the instituition from their stated sum. So, if an athlete from Haryana, who represents the Railways, is given Rs 50 lakh by the Railways, the government would deduct Rs 50 lakh from its own prize money of Rs 1.5 crore for that athlete. In effect, he/ she would get Rs 1 crore.
 
 Boxer Manoj Kumar, who won a bronze, said, “No other government has taken this step before. This government has not provided jobs and now they are reducing prize money as well. This is like charging GST on the players.”
 
 
 
 Sakshi Malik also criticised the Haryana government's attitude. Other players who will not be attending the ceremony include boxers Amit Panghal and  , and wrestler  .
 
 According to the state sports policy, every CWG gold medal winner is entitled for a Class A job, silver medal winner for Class B job and bronze medal winner for Class C job in the Haryana government.
 
 However,  , principal secretary in the department of sports and youth affairs, said: “According to the previous sports policy, only the players who are domiciled in Haryana and played for the state were eligible for the prize money. But this time a decision was taken to include those who are domiciled in Haryana but have sought jobs in other organisations under sports quota. I don’t understand why they are boycotting the ceremony.”
 
 
 
