It will be a Congress-led alliance, with   as the   candidate, which will face the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In Tamil Nadu, the   is already in a firm   with the  . With more like-minded parties working together now, it would be a winning combination, said   S   in an exclusive interview to D Govardan:

 
 
 
 There is no surprise in meeting of two party leaders. It could be a routine meeting to discuss politics.
 
 KCR is talking about a federal front, if not a third front, with a bigger role for regional parties and one that is inclusive of the Congress? Is Congress game for it?
 
 Telangana that KCR represents has only 17 MPs. All the seats are not with his party too. The Congress is the main opposition in Telangana and is poised to get more seats than TRS in the coming election. KCR’s plan for a non-Congress-led government will not work in the 545-member Lok Sabha.
 
 
 
 
  Congress will lead the alliance and Rahul Gandhi will be the prime ministerial candidate. End of the day, the PM candidate matters. Only those who accept Rahul Gandhi as the PM candidate can be in our alliance. Very few parties back Narendra Modi and the BJP. The Modi wave has ended. After Rahul Gandhi became the Congress president, there is a Rahul wave now. The BJP has lost all bypolls to the Lok Sabha in the last two years. Congress alone can replace BJP and Rahul Gandhi is the only alternative to Modi.
 
 
 
 
 There is no third front at present. It is not sure how many parties will join it when formed. I don’t think even the Marxists want a third front. The CPM and Mamata Banerjee can never be part of one alliance in West Bengal. No party has so far said that they are in third front. The DMK itself has said there is no third front.
 
 Hasn’t M K Stalin endorsed Mamata Banerjee’s attempts to bring together regional parties?
 
 Stalin has only wished Mamataji success on her fight for states’ rights. There is nothing more to read into it, especially when the DMK and the Congress are already in an alliance in Tamil Nadu. The DMK has never said it is going with the third front.
 
 
 
 Yes. Why should there be even a doubt about it? The DMK and Congress are already in alliance. More like-minded parties are working with us now. This will become a formidable alliance and a winning combination.
 
 
 
 
 Our alliance with the DMK is strong. I do not even want to talk about anything else. We do not even know what the vote share of the AIADMK is at present. We do not know how the AIADMK votes are going to split. There is a long way to go.
 
