By: Anindita.Acharya

 CHANDIGARH: Director Mehna Gulzar found inspiration in Harinder S Sikka’s book Calling   to make Ali Bhatt-starrer  . But do you know who influenced Sikka to produce the National award-winning film  , which was marred by controversy? It was Sehmat (the ‘anonymous’ Indian spy who married a Pakistani Army man and passed on classified information about Pakistan during the 1971 war) who asked Sikka to make a film on Guru Nanak. “It is no less than a miracle that Academy award-winners like  , Resul Pookutty, Padma awardees Pandit Jasraj and Bhai Nirmal Singh, AK Bir and Grammy award-winner from Los Angeles Gurujas contributed to making of Nanak Shah Fakir. I see Sehmat’s hand in it,” said the author, who joined the Indian Navy after graduating from Delhi University. 
 
 When Sikka went to the Kargil battle in 1999 as an embedded journalist, little did he know that he would come across the story of an Indian spy. In 2000, he went to meet Sehmat in Malerkotla in Punjab’s Sangrur district. Sikka recalled that Sehmat never spoke much. “When I came across Sehmat’s story, I felt honour-bound to write about her. However, it was difficult to get her to talk. I had to imagine the bits and pieces that I received from her. But her small leads were good enough for me to run my imagination,” said Sikka, who took premature retirement in 1993 as a Lieutenant Commander.
 
 It took him two trips to Pakistan and eight years to pen down Calling Sehmat. And the author always wanted Gulzar to make the film. But the famed lyricist-turned-director refused him twice. “Gulzar saab had his reservations. Was it providence that his daughter did the film under his blessings?” questioned the author.
 
 The author used to meet her at Malerkotla house before Sehmat shifted to Rajasthan. Though the author does not remember the number of times he met Sehmat, but he knew no one in her family was happy to learn the purpose of his meetings. “In fact, till date, they don’t quite appreciate the book or me for that matter. I lost complete contact in between because she had shifted to Rajasthan. I am aware that she had stayed in Malerkotla because of her guilt feeling for Abdul (the man who worked in the house of the Pakistani officer),” said Sikka.
 
 Though the world knows a bit more about Sehmat after the release of Raazi, Sikka has no plans to reveal her identity. Former J&K chief minister Farooq Abdullah read the book and even asked him to guard identities.
 
 “Except for one person, her family is not keen. Those who know her have also advised me not to let her identity out. When the book was first released at the residence of the South African High Commissioner to India, Francis Moloi, diplomats from Pakistan High Commission were also present and had taken copies of Calling Sehmat. Till date, Pakistan has not spoken against the book. Though, more often than not, they are first ones to react,” said Sikka. 
 
 After writing the book, Sikka left the manuscript with Sehmat. Sikka considers Sehmat as a saintly figure. “I have also from time to time given her individual chapters. Being a saintly figure, she had the capacity to keep her feelings within. Her calm and composed face did not express anything much,” he said. The author has never received any opinion on anyone from Sehmat. “She was mostly in her own world. Also, Alia was shortlisted much before I signed the contract,” he said.
 
 The film has not only impressed the critics but is also minting money at the box office. Yes, that does make Sikka a happy man. “Alia’s innocent looks, varied shades of pains, soul-searching expressions took the film to a different zone,” he smiled.
 
 
