CHANDIGARH: The data on the number of cleaners, rooms and washrooms and the open spaces in the hostels will be collected to prepare the budget requirements to make it mandatory to clean hostels twice a day. After   (PU) vice chancellor   visited the hostels last week and proposed cleaning of hostels twice a day, a meeting was convened recently by the dean student welfare ( )   to start work on this. 

 “We are going to collect the data on the number of cleaners available with each hostel. The data on the number of rooms and washrooms and open spaces requiring cleaning would be collected so that a budget estimate is made. Introducing two-time cleaning a day in the hostels would mean additional manpower and for that, we require some funds,” said DSW Nahar. 
 
 Moreover, the authorities are also preparing a report on the extra space available in the hostels.   had suggested that the additional space available in the university hostels should be utilised and more reading rooms can be made there.
 
 Grover had visited the boys hostel numbers 5, 6, 7 and girls’ hostel numbers 3, 4, 6, 8 and 9 on January 7. Grover saw the arrangements in the new reading rooms created in the hostels. He had asked the DSW office to create the provision of coffee and tea for the students in the reading rooms since they study till late in the night. Another proposal is to install ACs in the reading rooms. 
 
 Grover had also suggested creating a dining hall for the faculty members in the girls’ hostel number 9. Since, the faculty members sometimes have guests visiting them or are unable to go home for meals, the vice-chancellor has suggested utilising the wide dining area in the girls’ hostel number 9 by creating this hall especially for the faculty members. The hostel is in Sector 25 campus which houses the big departments like UIET, Dr HSJ Dental institute and basic medical sciences block. Moreover, Grover also suggested that proper lighting should be done and a path should be created connecting the girls’ hostel number 6 with the Guru Teg Bahadur reading hall.
 
 
