It’s a killer game like blue whale! — that’s what everyone’s been saying ever since news of the death of  , a 22-year-old biker from Kerala, rocked the biking community. An engineering graduate, Mithun was riding to chase his dream of becoming an ‘Iron Butt’ when the fatal accident cut his dreams short. Apparently, Mithun had been gearing up for a long time to earn the much-coveted Iron Butt patch which requires an aspirant to ride 1,000 miles (1,600 km) within 24 hours. Unfortunately, Mithun collided with a truck in Chithradurga, Karnataka. With many saying that it must have been sheer exhaustion that caused the young biker to crash, the debate of whether the Iron Butt challenge should be encouraged is back again.

  
 Hyderabad’s biking community too has suffered its share of losses, thanks to Iron Butt challenges. The death of the much-feted and much-loved biker, late Vinu SV, who lost his life while attempting an endurance ride, is still fresh in the community’s memory. “Vinu was a much accomplished biker. It was a mix of sleep deprivation and fatigue that led to his death in 2012. At the time of the accident, he had been riding 36 hours non-stop without sleep or food, all in an attempt to compete a higher level of the Iron Butt challenge. He fell off a fly-over somewhere on the 
 Chennai-Vijayawada Highway. This happens because sleep overpowers the rider in an instance, and it then it just leads to your final sleep! It’s just an illogical, stupid American game and we shouldn’t emulate them,” says Jack Jigg aka   of the popular riding group, Wolfe Pack. 
 
 Many city bikers are of the opinion that the challenge isn’t suitable for Indian roads, where there are many obstacles for the riders. To complete the Saddlesore challenge and earn a certificate from the US-based Iron Butt Association (IBA), bikers have to cover 1600 kms 24 hours. There’s also Bun Burner, in which riders attempt to cover 2,500 km in less than 36 hours. 
 “In India neither our highways nor our traffic system is suited for this kind of a mad game! In foreign countries, the bikers have a more conducive atmosphere to ride safely,” says Atul Rastogi, biker. 
 According to Rahool Saxena, who is a member of the Wanderers Hyderabad biking community, fatigue and sleep deprivation are some of the biggest challenges for riders aspiring to take up the challenge. “When you are riding continuously for 24 hours, the driver faces issues of sleep deprivation, fatigue and in the last four-five hours people also tend to hallucinate. They end up losing their life due to it,” he points out, adding, “A lot of people from all over the world are able to do it, but on Indian roads, heavy traffic, reckless driving and the presence of cattle turns this challenge into a nightmare. 
 
 In fact, some Hyderabadi bikers have also called for a ban on the Iron Butt Challenge in India, and state that riding should be a pleasurable experience and not something that would cause fatigue and put your life in danger. “Long distance biking should remain a passion and not a competition. pushing our limits for the sake of records is very dangerous,” says Pavan Kumar Gouda, a professional biker. “One shouldn’t risk one’s life for a mere certification of Iron Butt. We’ve already lost too many young lives to this challenge in our city, and in our country. We should ban all mails related to the challenge, and the government should educate the riders about its consequences, and send a note to IBA to discourage any application from India,” he adds, vehemently.
 
 
  Commenting on the recent accident, officials from the Kerala Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) too agree that the Iron Butt Challenge is an extremely dangerous pursuit.  , an inspector with MVD, says, “It is dangerous on roads anywhere in our country. It’s not just about the roads, actually. These riders try to go at an average speed of 65 km per hour, avoiding even food and loo breaks, for a full 24 hours. Especially towards the last portion of the ride, exhaustion overpowers them physically and mentally and they are highly prone to accidents.” 
 However, as it is an individual challenge that anyone can take up, there is hardly anything that can be done to stop it, he admits. “At least, if someone else is there with you, it might help safety-wise but the challenge is undertaken solo.”psychologist Dr C J John points out that focusing on a task for 24 hours straight is no mean task, and the chances of one’s attention wavering are extremely high. “In all kinds of sports, there are people who might have done the riskiest of tasks, but that does not mean everyone can do it or is prepared for it. Perhaps youngsters, out of their adventurous spirit, take it up for the glamour or the stripes they earn among peers. But even if they plan the route and their speed, even if they have safety gears, losing control is just a matter of time in such cases. in long distance marathons, you have medical assistance. But these challenges don’t even have that!”
 
 
 Deepak Dev, a 25-year-old-biker from Kerala, who completed the ‘Bun Burner 1500’ challenge — 1500 miles in 36 hours — in February this year says that a lot of people who slam these endurance rides do so due to lack of awareness. “riders take a lot of precautions before the challenge. A week before the attempt, we start concentrating on our stamina by sticking to a good diet, avoiding mobile phones, sleeping two days at a stretch and the like. It’s a tough challenge but it’s doable,” he informs. But Atul counters: “One should ride for the sheer pleasure of riding. It’s not a gamble. These certificates are just ego boosters. As a biker, I find it pointless especially if you are playing with your life,” 
 
 
