CHENNAI: Irrespective of who gets to form the government in  , the JD(S) comeback could help catapult   to the fore with much more vigour in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. With the good showing of JD(S), and established regional parties like the DMK in  , the TDP in Andhra Pradesh and TRS in Telangana, a southern   of these parties could prove  .

 The talk about a third front, after Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao visited Chennai and met DMK working president M K Stalin, had taken a back seat in anticipation of the elections in Karnataka. But, the  , by its quick thinking in extending support to JD(S), has ensured that the regional parties cannot brush it aside while planning an alternative to the   at the Centre.
 
 “That is why I said in the morning (on Tuesday) that all secular parties should come together to oppose this communal BJP. In the coming days, these secular parties should work on that,” DMK working president M K Stalin said in a party release.
 
 The regional parties are here to stay and their voices cannot be ignored, said DMK leader and MLA P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan. The fundamental line of thinking, whether it was with the Justice Party or the Dravidian movement, is that self-determination is a natural extension of self-respect. If one looks at the history of economic development globally, more powers were devolved to lower level bodies, as a nation grows stronger economically.
 
 “Only here in India, the BJP had created a mirage of ‘One Nation: One X’ and trying to reverse the global trend. If one looks closely, in several states where they are ruling, they have tactically leveraged their power to coerce regional parties to fall in line. The Karnataka outcome has put an exclamation mark to that mirage,” said Thiagarajan. “We are very clear that the future of this country belongs to a strong state and regional parties and not to homogenic kind of movements. Nobody can form the government at the Centre without the support of regional parties in 2019,” he said.
 
 Tamil Nadu Congress leader Peter Alphonse looked at the Karnataka development as the beginning of the consolidation of secular parties to take on the communal forces. “It’s a good beginning and a good turnaround for a new approach for secular parties coming together,” Alphonse said.
 
 “The stock of regional parties, which are already looking at forming an anti-BJP platform at the national level, will definitely go up,” said N Sathiya Moorthy, political analyst. BJP too will be forced to rethink its approach towards its regional allies, he said.
 
 
