CHANDIGARH: The body of a newly-born girl child was recovered from a freshly-dug grave in the jungles of   Lake’s Bird Walk at 8.30 pm on Wednesday by a team of Chandigarh Police.

 Working in pitch darkness in the presence of this correspondent, the police team assisted by the UT forest and wildlife department’s guards located the grave and dug out the body from a depth of 2.5 feet. The child had been buried by a group of men in the late evening after they arrived at the spot in two swanky SUVs. The group was confronted by two forest guards, Ajay Dahiya and Sagar, but the guards had to retreat after they delivered murderous threats. However, the guards noted down the registration numbers of the two SUVs. 
 
  
  
 
 “We used our mobile apps from the spot and traced the owners and the car models. The owner of the Maruti Brezza is Darshan Singh and the registration number is CH01BN4347. The other SUV is a Ford Endeavour (HR70C8231) and is registered in the name of Jasbir Singh. We have registered an FIR and have flashed the car numbers through the control room. The men are suspects. We have learnt that the child was a stillborn at the Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, on Wednesday. The child was born to Ajay, son of Darshan Singh, a resident of Sector 26, Chandigarh,” DSP (central) Ram Gopal told TOI. Gopal was immediately deputed to the spot by SSP Nilambri Jagadale after TOI alerted her in the late evening of the incident. ]
 
 This correspondent, who was watching migratory birds at the spot in the late afternoon, had asked the forest guard to inquire into the suspicious digging by the group in the restricted forest area at about 5.15 pm. On his return from the bird-watching walk, the guards informed the correspondent that they suspected the body of a girl child had been buried but they were badly threatened by the group of men. The correspondent and the forest guards led the police to the jungle. 
 
 However, the grave was located with great difficulty in the jungle at night because the group had covered the grave carefully with leaf litter to make it appear a normal spot of the jungle floor. The spot was across two dry nallahs branching from the main nallah coming from Saketri and full of stagnant water. Gopal, who led the police team to the spot, requisitioned shovels to expedite the digging after the spot was located following a thorough scan of the jungle. The child was wrapped in warm clothes with a “Love” logo embroidered on the jacket and coated with layers of salt to make the body dissolve quickly.
 
 “When I asked the men what they were doing, they told me to get lost. Since there was a nallah between me and the group, I asked my colleague at the Nature Interpretation Centre, Ajay Dahiya, to confront the group,” Sagar told TOI. When Dahiya rushed to the spot, he was barred from going forward by an older man in the group.
 
 “They first told me that take some money and go away. When I told them that I am going to inform my senior officers, they threatened to finish me. They even mentioned names of some cops to intimidate me,” Dahiya told TOI.
 
 
