It is a place where teenagers get a licence to freedom and senior citizens get an official endorsement of being fit enough to drive. On a regular day, the Sector 17 headquarters of the UT registering and licensing authority (RLA) deals with at least 700 people—from those who want to drive to those who want to register the car they want to drive.

 It’s 2.10pm. Sector-47 resident M C   is in a queue for submitting his licence-renewal application at the office. Aged 70, Bajaj, once he gets the new licence, plans to go on a drive out of town to get the experience of highway life in the 21st century. “Back in the day, we did not have cars like now.
 
 Even roads weren’t as wide,” says Bajaj, who earlier in the day ran into trouble with the recently introduced online appointment system. “They said we need to take an appointment before coming to office. I did not have one, so one of the staffers,  , helped me out. The staff is really helpful.”
 
 Bajaj is not the only one facing trouble with the new appointment system. Subedar Sandeep Rana, with his crew cut and neatly tucked shirt and cargo pants, stands out in the post-lunch crowd of 200-odd people. It’s Monday. The Army man’s leave is scheduled to end on Wednesday and he still carries a driving licence past its expiry date. “I don’t know what to do. I have been in the queue since morning and then I was told to apply online,” he says.
 
 Though with a bit of help from the RLA staff, Rana was able to apply online for a renewal of licence, he was yet to get an appointment. “What if it is scheduled after my leave is over? I will have to come back later,” says Rana. “I hope they make an exception for someone from the Army.”
 
 While Bajaj is relieved and Rana is tense, Phase-X resident Anil  , 60, is fuming. The senior citizen calls the online system an utter failure. “I need a no-objection certificate, because I shifted from Chandigarh to Mohali and have to apply for a licence there. I have been in the queue since morning but not been able to get any work done,” he says.
 
 Sharma goes on to compare Chandigarh’s online appointment system with that of Mohali. “It’s not as complicated as it is here. The UT office keeps asking me to get the online appointment. Now they tell me to come on Saturday. Today’s Monday. My entire week will go waste,” he says.
 
 By the time it is 3pm, the rush of applicants has thinned out. An RLA staffer at one of the counters says it is surprising to see that people still are unaware of how the system works. “Most people in the city know about the online appointment system by now. If their documents are in order, the work is wrapped up in a day or two. The problem is with those who don’t keep a record and then expect everything to be done at their whims and fancies,” she says.
 
 
 Tired of running from pillar to post all day, Ram Darbar resident   approaches The Times of India team to seek help. “I have not been able to understand anything that is happening here,” says Lal, who is a applying for a light motor vehicle (LMV) licence to move on from a scooter to a car. “I took half a day off from work for this task especially, but it seems I’ll be stuck here all day,” he says. “The staff is not helpful. They keep sending me from one desk to another.” Lal says he spoke to a “middleman”
 
 
 Learner's driving licence, regular driving licence, change of address, renewal of driving licence, renewal of driving licence of other state, international driving licence, fresh conductor licence, registration of new vehicle, renewal of registration certificate, duplicate registration certificate, registration of other states’ vehicle that is to be assigned new mark, transfer of ownership in case of auction, and so on
 
 and may seek his help now. “At least I will not tire myself out like this. I will pay the man about Rs 2,000 and get my licence home delivered. Isn’t that much better?” he asks.
 
 Unlike Lal and other confused visitors, Sector-20 senior citizen   had a smooth sail at every counter. His answer, in fact, leaves one questioning if the RLA’s new system is tailormade for the tech-savvy minority. Sitting without any sign of panic or tension on his face,   says the online appointment system is perfect. “My grandson submitted the application. I have just brought the printout of the page,” he says. “Isn’t technology amazing?”
 
