LUCKNOW: The first meeting of the new LMC House centred around the civic problems of the city, especially poor garbage disposal and irregularities in installation of  

 
 Corporators expressed dissatisfaction against LMC hired private firm, Eco-green, for failing to keep the city clean. Voices were also raised against duplicacy in installation of LED streetlights by the company — Energy Efficient Services Limited (EESL). 
  
 
 Members alleged that the company is not attending to complaints of defunct LEDs. The House asked for a probe in LED installation and daily monitoring of garbage collection from houses.
 
 
  said, “Eco-green has been worse than the earlier company( ). Even after 10 months of operation, it has covered only 40% houses under   collection programme. Its garbage collectors often skip duty, and even the roadside garbage is not regularly lifted.”
 
 
 The six-hour meeting also dwelt on the inability of Lucknow Municipal Corporation in collecting taxes. The tax recovery has come down to less than 50% in the current financial year.
 
 
 Corporator   said, “EESL has been removing sodium lights and replacing them with inferior LEDs instead. There is no account of what it is doing with old sodium lights. They are also not repairing the defunct ones. Most lights have fused within a month of installation.”
 
 
 Corporator Yawar Hussain Reshu claimed that a day old tollfree helpline for redressing LED related complaints is also defunct. He said that the number disconnects automatically without even registering the complaint.
 
 
 Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia ordered a probe into EESL work and said that LED installation will now be regularly monitored by LM engineers. Municipal commissioner   said, “The garbage vehicle visiting the colonies will carry both Eco-green and LMC staff. While company’s collectors will collect garbage from all houses, LMC’s sanitary staff will sweep the streets and then load the waste on same vehicle. This way, the collectors’ work can be  .”
 
