NOIDA: With all round protest and resentment on 25% water tariff hike implemented by   with effect from April 1, the   RWA has written to the authority CEO   on Thursday demanding the withdrawal of the said hike citing many reasons. The Confederation of NCR Residents Welfare Associations (CONRWA) has instead, asked for and an inquiry/audit of income and expenditure of authority's water department.

 “Noida Authority has put a new burden on the residents and poor people of villages of the city by increasing the water tariff by 25 %. The entire district has started protesting against the authorities -- from social institutions to the general public,” said  , president CONRWA.
 
 Jain adds that while many areas of the city still get poor quality water and are forced to make do with it, the authority never takes notice of their complaints. “Even after many complaints sometimes, no officer comes to see in the sector or colonies suffering poor quality water,” said Jain. 
 
 Residents across the city maintain that authority needs to focus on clean drinking water before thinking of increasing any tariff hike. While the Federation of Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA) already raised this issue last week, NCR RWA has written to authority CEO Alok Tandon on the same on Thursday and demanded a roll back on increased tariff hike on water.
 
 Jain maintained that by increasing the water bill, the Authority has done grave injustice to the residents especially the poor in the city. “While asking for a roll back on the water tariff hike, we have also handed over a memorandum to the authority asking them to check the record of all water connections in the city. We have also demanded an inquiry into how only Rs 45 crore revenue is earned by the water department while its expenditure is shown as Rs 138 crores,” said Jain.
 
 CONRWA pointed out that just as the electricity connection is close to 3 lakhs then how come the water connections in the city is not even 1.25 lakhs? “A dedicated tariff from bulk connection, commercial, industrial and societies’ connection will ensure increased revenue for the water department,” said Jain. 
 
 Meanwhile Suresh Tiwari senior vice president FONRWA maintained even as increase in water tariff has caused immense problems for the poor the RWA federation has already submitted a memorandum to authority as well as UP government for the withdrawal of the hiked tariff. “If the tariff hike is not withdrawn then there will be mass protests across the city on the streets,” said Tiwari. 
 
 Apart from this, the   ( ) has also started an online petition in this regard, which is getting majority response in support of withdrawing the hiked tariff.
 
