JODHPUR: In a blow to IAS officer and former principal secretary (mines),  , the high court on Friday rejected his petition to quash the FIR, the chargesheet and the entire proceedings in the mining bribery case pending before the sessions judge (Anti-Corruption) in Udaipur.

 While rejecting his petition, Justice   observed that since adequate evidences of offence are available, the instant petition lacks merit and the same is, therefore, rejected.
 
 
 The court also stated further that no case of misuse of process of law to harass him is made out as alleged by Singhvi in his petition accusing the ACB of exercising flaws during investigation of the case against him.
 
 Singhvi’s counsel argued that entire action was taken without filing an FIR and even the searches and seizures were carried out without any search warrant. He, thus, termed the action by the ACB arbitrary and high-handed one. But protesting the petitioner’s arguments, AAG Shiv Kumar Vyas argued that entire action by the ACB was as per the law and had there been any grievances, Singhvi should have approached the court with the same prayer during his arrest in 2015.
 
 While rejecting Singhvi’s prayer, the court observed that that the moral deterioration in public life is a serious blow to good governance and its mushrooming has become menace to the society.
 
 “The ill-effects of corruption are really distressing inasmuch as, at time, citizens belonging to have-notes of the society may be deprived of the benefits of  , other government subsidies and legitimate claims besides fruits flowing from various welfare schemes”, the court observed.
 
 Terming the phenomenon a “royal thievery”, the court further observed that being opposed to democracy and social order, if not nipped in the bud at the earliest, its repercussions are obvious in the form of turbulence of the socio-economic-political system of the State.
 
 It may be recalled that Singhvi and four others had been arrested by the ACB on charges of corruption in September 2015. All of them, however, obtained bail from the court.
 
