NAGPUR: Majid and Mangesh (names changed), whose death sentences were commuted to life terms two years ago, have got a new lease of life.

 On Friday, the duo was admitted to two-year Master of Business Administration (MBA) course by   National Open University ( ).
 
 Along with Majid and Mangesh, seven more prisoners convicted for different crimes were enrolled by Ignou for the management programme at  . The entrance open management entrance test (openmat) was held in September last year and results were declared in December.
 
 More than 200 people, including 11 prisoners, had applied while 168 appeared in the exam. Just 54 of them managed to clear the test from Nagpur region.
 
 “The entrance is tough to crack and requires dedicated preparation. 50% out of 200 marks is needed to qualify. Out of 11, nine prisoners scored above the qualifying marks. Some of the prisoners have completed degree courses from traditional universities while others were school dropouts, who pursued Ignou’s bachelor preparatory programme and BA to qualify,” said Ignou regional director  .
 
 The 11 prisoner students, who are in the 30 to 50 age group, were provided 20-day coaching by Ignou. The course fee of Rs38,000 too has been waived off for the nine eligible students.
 
 Ignou coordinators and staff, including Yogesh Patil, Mukul Burghate, Padmakar Sahare, Sunil Ikharkar, Tushar Tale, and Shyamal Ruikar helped them 3 to 4 hours per day for the entrance preparation.
 
 Sivaswaroop said Ignou is planning to hold lectures through the recently revived Gyan Vani radio station 105.6. “We have asked jail officials to provide a radio for delivering lectures to the students. With permission from the jail authorities, an FM radio will be made available at Ignou’s Special Study Centre in the jail, so that the prisoners would be able to hear lecturers like any other student,” he said.
 
 The two-year course will commence from February and Ignou has already provided study material to the nine prisoners. Five of them were not present as they were on parole during the ceremony to hand over books, the regional director said. 
 
 Sivaswaroop said during the ceremony, Majid and Mangesh become emotional and thanked the Supreme Court and Ignou. “They said while the apex court bestowed mercy on them, Ignou gave them another chance to do something new in life,” he recalled.
 
 
