HYDERABAD: In the ensuing academic year, students will no longer be able to block degree and engineering seats simultaneously as the   ( ) has made changes in the online admission process to curb number of vacant seats in degree colleges.

 The same was declared in a meeting convened by the   with principals of affiliated degree colleges on Saturday.
 
 
 Authorities elaborated on the guidelines for degree online services Telangana ( ) according to which students will no longer be able to block multiple seats simultaneously. Until last year, the admission process was linked to biometric system. However, for academic year 2018-19, the TSCHE has linked Aadhaar card details to admission process to curb number of vacant seats in degree colleges.
 
 “Until last year, lot of students simultaneously blocked seats in engineering colleges as well as degree colleges to be on the safe side. This year, the DOST has a provision as per which if a student confirms a seat in an engineering college then the degree college seat will automatically be cancelled,” said R  , DOST convenor.
 
 Apart from undergraduate courses in arts, science, social sciences, commerce, management, computer applications and social work, admissions for polytechnic courses will also be held through DOST from academic year 2018-19.
 
 While the registration process for degree admissions in colleges of seven state universities will begin from May 7, the TSCHE has enhanced the registration fee from ?100 to ?200 this year.
 
 In order to help students identify correct location of colleges that they chose in web counselling, the TSCHE has instructed managements to provide GPS location with latitude and longitude details. “Last year, a lot of students faced issues in identifying the correct address of the college. We have now asked managements to fill up a form wherein they not only have to provide full address but also GPS data,” said Limbadri.
 
 In a government order issued on Friday night elaborating DOST guidelines, it is clarified that the registered candidates shall not be permitted to change the medium of instruction after the final allotment of the seat is made.
 
 Apart from this, students seeking admission in colleges which have registered less than 25 per cent intake for three consecutive years will also be transferred by TSCHE. “If the admissions into an undergraduate course is less than 25 per cent of intake (for the past 3 consecutive academic years) the students may be allotted to any other viable course in the same college or in the same course in other college, after last phase of admissions, after taking the consent of the students, management and the University concerned,” read the guidelines.
 
