NEW DELHI: Archbishop of Delhi Anil Couto came under attack on Tuesday for his remarks that a “turbulent political atmosphere” posed a threat to India’s democratic principles and secular fabric with   president Amit Shah saying that “polarisation in the name of religion” is unacceptable.

 
 Shah also said it was not surprising that West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and   CM Chandrababu Naidu had supported the archbishop’s views since his letter’s content was in line with the opposition’s agenda to oust the   government. “The statement serves the opposition’s purpose, so naturally they will support it,” Shah said. Couto’s letter evoked sharp reactions from the government and   outfits like VHP.
 
 
 
 In a pastoral letter read out in all parishes of the Delhi archdiocese on Sunday, Couto called on Catholics to start a campaign of prayer and fasting on Friday ahead of elections in 2019. In his letter, Couto had said, “We are witnessing a turbulent political atmosphere which poses a threat to the democratic principles enshrined in our Constitution and the secular fabric of our nation.”
 
 “It is our hallowed practice to pray for the country and its political leaders, but all the more so when we approach the general elections,” the letter said.
 
 “I have not seen the statement (of the archbishop) verbatim, but all I can say is that India is a country where there is no discrimination against anyone based on caste, sect or religion. Such a thing cannot be allowed,” home minister Rajnath Singh said on the sidelines of an event. “We will not compromise on the unity, integrity and sovereignty of this country at any cost,” he said.
 
 VHP joint general secretary   attempted to draw the Vatican into the controversy, alleging that the Delhi archbishop was appointed by it. “Therefore, the archbishop’s statement is tantamount to interference in India’s internal matters and an attack on its sovereignty,” Jain said.
 
 “Whenever there is a non-Congress government, Christian leaders see a threat to secularism. Such statements not only tarnish the image of Hindus, but also of Mother India,” he said.
 
 Union minister  , a former seminarian who was BJP’s pick for consolidating the Christian vote in the north-eastern before the assembly elections, waded into the controversy. He said the archbishop’s comments on the political atmosphere in the country were “unfair” and that “godmen” should stay away from politics.
 
