HYDERABAD: In a massive crackdown against underage driving, the 9th special metropolitan magistrate court on Thursday sent 10 parents behind bars for a day for allowing their children to drive. Also, a 14-year-old was punished with a one-day juvenile home remand.

 In February itself, 45 parents were jailed and 1,079 cases of driving by minors were registered as part of traffic police’s campaign against underage driving.
 
  
  
 
 Criticising parents for failing to stop minors from riding bikes and cars in busy streets, Magistrate K   also slapped a penalty of Rs 500 on each parent and put them on trial under Section 180 of Motor Vehicle Act.
 
 In 2017, police recorded 130 accidents involving minors and many of them turned out to be near-fatal and in some cases caused death.
 
 In the latest incident,   traffic police nabbed a minor driving an auto and produced him before court. He was sent to a day’s imprisonment and shifted to a juvenile home on Thursday.
 
 In all these cases, vehicles have been seized, and the minor driver and parents are being summoned to attend counselling at the Traffic Training institute and later prosecuted.
 
 To instill fear in minds of parents and their children, Hyderabad Traffic police have decided to go tough against this menace by initiating punitive action and hold parents responsible for allowing their children to ride vehicles.
 
 
 Driving by minors is rampant in various parts of the city, including   and West zone. The traffic police have identified certain areas such as Bahadurpura, Santoshnagar, Falaknuma, Towlichowki and  , where the menace is rampant.
 
 
 “There are several incidents in which minors died in road accidents and we are now concentrating on their safety. Parents will now be extra cautious before allowing children to drive vehicles,” said DCP Traffic AV Ranganath.
 
 
 According to CMV Act, no person under age of eighteen shall drive a motor vehicle in any public place. However, a motor vehicle with an engine capacity not exceeding 50 cc may be driven in a public place by a person after attaining the age of 16, provided they have parent’s consent.
 
