CHANDIGARH: The real enemies of India are poverty, unemployment, lack of education and lack of opportunities among others, and that is what we need to focus on, said   finance minister Manpreet Badal at Day 2 of the   event at Indian School of  , Mohali. 

 Drawing a paralell with Israel, he said, “Israel on the other hand, is very similar to us and we in India applaud the achievements of Israel and hope we learn from each other,” he said. 
 
 Accompanied by  , Ambassador of Israel to India at a session titled, “Building a start-up nation,” Badal spoke about identifying the potential of youth in India and helping them reach it through a meticulously designed path of governmental help.
 
 When asked about the next step for start-ups in Punjab, Badal said, "We are going to announce our budget in the next 15 days and have a reserved allocation of an investment of Rs 50 crore for startups.” 
 
 When asked about a takeaway from Ambassador Carmon's talk in context to Punjab, he said, "I think the takeaway is that just the intent has made Israel one of the leaders of the world in innovation, so if the intent is there the rest follows. I think the intent is very important which seems missing at the moment here."
 
 Addressing the gathering, Carmon, like Badal spoke about the similarities in the Israel and India. He also underlined the meed to keep the over 50 to 60-year-old relationship intact and healthy. 
 
 He noted the fact that Israel and India gained independence almost within the same span of time. 
 
 "India is a vast-subcontinent with a lot of potential and opportunities. Sure, it does have challenges but also solutions. India and Israel are very similar nations and have a lot in common. We appreciate these commonalities," he said. 
 
 Describing Israel as a “development laboratory,” Carmon highlighted the widespread ecosystem of innovation that the country harbours. 
 
 "At the time of independence, we had a population of just 6 lakh people. Hence, we had to develop technologies for education system, healthcare and various other things. Once our own nation was steady, we started sharing it with the world," said Carmon. 
 
 Elaborating on the sustainable and thriving culture of innovation in Israel, Carmon said education as one of the prime places of investment. 
 
 "Ever since Independence, we developed food security, geo-strategic abilities and a very good economy. Having one of the most advanced defense systems in the world, our military is well-equipped and citizens are trained in them as well," he said.
 
 Carmon placed a lot of importance on government support for entreprenuers. Despite the fact that only one in 15 or 20 persons will succeed, the risk is covered, he said. 
 
 
