PATIALA : The controversy on Class XII history books of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) deepened with Sikh bodies objecting to a chapter which says martyr   took oath on the Punjabi literature classic,  , during trial in the Central Criminal Court in England. The book says Udham Singh chose to take oath on ‘Heer’ instead of a religious book to conceal his religious identity and uphold the Punjabi spirit. Heer, an epic romance by Waris Shah, is regarded as the epitome of Punjabi literature.

 Members of the PSEB committee appointed by the state government to provide matter for the Class XII history text claimed to have given reference of the book, ‘Social space of language, the vernacular culture of British Colonial Punjab’ written by Farina Mir. Like a few other writers, Farina claimed in the book that Udham Singh demanded the epic ‘Heer’ to take an oath. But the book does not say whether he actually took oath on the epic.
 
 Professor  , who wrote a book on Udham Singh’s life, said he published the martyr’s letter demanding the epic to take oath in his book. But his claim was questioned after the Shaheed Udham Singh Welfare Trust, Birmingham, England, got the letter examined by handwriting experts and found it was not genuine. Managaing trustee Avtar Singh said he got the letter provided by writer Harish Puri examined by handwriting experts in England. Harish Puri, who has also written a book on the revolutionary, said, “This letter of Udham Singh on ‘Heer’ was provided to me by former Rajya Sabha member Manohar Singh Gill along with other letters in 1973. In 1974, a procession was planned from Delhi to Sunam with Udham Singh’s ashes. Then GNDU VC Bishan Singh Samundari suggested to me and   to write a book on the basis of these letters. We were in a hurry and we did not have much time for a forensic examination of the letters.” He also desisted from commenting on the authenticity of the letter. 
 
 PSEB committee coordinator Seema Chawla refused to comment. But Jasbir Singh, a member of the committee said, “We took reference from the book of Farina Mir and a news article from an English daily to present in the History book that Udham Singh took oath on the epic, ‘Heer’. Further, our committee members are looking into the issues that created controversy.” When asked where in her book had Farina mentioned that Udham Singh took oath on the epic, Jasbir failed to answer. 
 
 Jaswinder Singh Khalsa of the   said, “There seems a conspiracy over the claim that Shaheed Udham Singh took the oath as there is no evidence in history. We have already submitted a memorandum to the state government via Patiala DC to look into the matter.”
 
 
