The National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test-UG (NEET) is an all-India level entrance exam conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The exams are carried out to offer admissions into MBBS and BDS Courses in India in Medical and Dental Colleges that are approved by the Medical Council of India/Dental Council of India under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India except for the institutions established through an Act of Parliament.

 The exams were eliminated in 2013 but made a comeback for common medical entrance in 2016. Last year, the exams were held on on May 7.
 
 NEET UG 2018 exam is scheduled to be conducted on May 10, 2018. The online application process is expected to start from January 31.
 
 
 
 
 
 NEET is organized by the CBSE and the most important books that are advised to be referred while preparing for the exams are NCERT Textbooks. The NCERT books meet all the required standards that are needed while preparing for all three subjects i.e. Physics, Chemistry and Biology. Go through all the concepts thoroughly from these books first. You can also use additional books for reference and for numerical practice and revision for NEET 2018.
 
 
 
  
  While preparing for NEET 2018, you must make a note of all the important exam details, including the exam pattern, curriculum, marks distribution and time duration. This will give you a brief about the important concepts so you can prepare for the exams accordingly. 
 
 
 
  The most basic rule to crack any exam is to first understand your weaknesses and work in order to turn them into strengths. While everybody has their own style of studying, it is always advised to study in a systematic manner. The first thing that you need to do for that is – Prepare A Timetable and stick to it.
 
 To start with, have at least 4 hours of self-study daily and gradually increase the time duration as the exam draws nearer. Divide your time into slots in a manner that you don’t spend more than 3 hours continuously on the same subject. 
 
 Make sure you do sleep for a minimum of 7 hours of sound sleep as that is essential to keep your mind fresh and alert. Also, take some time out for hobbies and recreational activities.
 
 
 
 
 
  Go through the 2017   pattern and understand the topics that are important. You can prioritize these topics depending on your interest and give extra emphasis on your weak topics. You like it or not, know that you have to study all topics sooner or later anyway. Since the exam will be devoid of any direct questions, it is important to give an honest attempt at learning and understanding the content. 
 
 
 
  
 The level of competition that surrounds NEET can be way too much. A positive attitude is a must for you to face the challenge without stressing out too much. A strong dedication, focus and right attitude are what has to be your first step towards success.
 
 
