NAGPUR: Villagers in Naxalite infested Gadchiroli district are staring at an economic crisis this year.   leaves, on which the entire rural economy of this tribal dominated area depends, is finding a few takers.

 The leaves found in local forests are used for wrapping beedis. Tribals of the district have been dependent on the beedi industry since many years for getting the much-needed cash inflow into the hinterland. Even Naxalites allegedly get a cut from the tendu trade.
 
 A slump in the beedi business has dropped the demand for the wrapping leaves. Trade sources say GST is one of the major factors. Under GST, beedi is taxed at 18% as against 4% earlier. As this makes the humble beedi dearer, the demand has come down, feel traders.
 
 Tendu leaves traders, already left with last year’s stock, are being offered nearly half the cost price by beedi manufacturers. This has discouraged traders from bidding for the fresh tendu season. However, no tendu auction means no fresh funds in large parts of the district’s villages. 
 
 The recent action by police in which contractors’ cash, allegedly being ferried to the Naxalites, was seized has also dampened the sprits keeping them away from auctions, say tendu traders.
 
 “Last year, the leaves fetched exceptionally high rates, but this has followed by an unprecedented slump,” said  , a trader from Gondia.
 
 Earlier, the auctions were conducted by forest department alone. Since 2014, in certain areas rights have been given to local gram sabhas (village councils) under Forest Rights Act. This also brings royalty generated out of the tendu auction to sabhas. 
 
 The amount is distributed among villagers. Apart from it, locals also get wages for tendu plucking. Earlier, when auctions were conducted only by forest department, the locals earned wages only from traders. 
 
 “In the seven rounds of auction undertaken in our area by the forest department, either there was no participation or the bids were not approved as amounts lower than the reserve price were quoted. The contractors are not in a mood to take part in the auctions,” said  , a tendu contractor.
 
 The tendu season starts in summers. In 2017, the rates were as high as Rs16,000 per standard bag, a unit to measure tendu leaves. This comes at Rs300 a kg for the traders who are already left with nearly half of the last year’s stock. Beedi makers in throughout the country are offering not more than Rs170 a kg. This rules out any chance of participation in any fresh tender, he said.
 
 “We are waiting for the auction slated on April 2. If nothing works out, we may have to work out a credit arrangement with the contractors,” said  , deputy sarpanch of   village.
 
 Former MP from Gadchiroli Dr   said that villagers draw their yearly plans taking in account the funds they may get from tendu work. “If there is no business, it means a grim situation for them,” he said.
 
 WITHERING LEAVES
 
 Tendu plucking gets each family anything between Rs4,000 to 20,000 in a season
 
 In some cases it could be as much as Rs50,000
 
 In areas where gram sabhas conduct tendu auction, locals get a share in royalty apart from wages for plucking leaves 
 
 No auction can bring a cash crunch in the area
 
 Less demand for beedi can hit other workers of the industry too
 
 
