AHMEDABAD: Gujarat’s director general of police, Shivanand Jha, issued a notification directing top police officers to directly monitor investigations into seizures of illegal liquor worth more than Rs 20 lakh to ascertain if the Prevention of Money Laundering Act ( ) can be invoked against bootleggers, to seize the proceeds of organized crime.

 Jha has directed all range IGPs and DIGs in districts and joint and additional police commissioners to directly monitor investigations into seizures of Indian-made foreign liquor ( ) worth more than Rs 20 lakh, to establish if the bootlegging is part of organized crime and if large sums of money and property are being acquired by those involved. 
 
 Jha said the aim is to break the backbone of bootlegging syndicates. “This will enable the enforcement directorate to invoke the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against bootleggers. Once PMLA is invoked, money and property acquired through criminal acts can be seized,” said Jha.
 
 The notification comes on the heels of the   HC reprimanding police on Wednesday for not acting against bootleggers and for filing ‘designed FIRs’ when liquor is seized, which inevitably state that the perpetrators ‘escaped’.
 
 Jha said the notification directs the investigating officer (IO) to ensure that detailed chargesheets are filed against all members of organised crime syndicates if the probe establishes that the bootlegging is a part of an organised crime effort. “The IO will have to send a detailed report to the DGP and ADGP (CID crime and Railways) to pass on the findings to the ED, for a decision on invoking PMLA against accused persons who may have acquired significant proceeds of crime through bootlegging,” Jha added. Significantly, the notification directs senior cops to investigate if offences covered by sections such as 467, 471, 472, 473, 475, 476, 484, 486, 487 of the PMLA and 488 of the IPC (making false marks for trafficking) have been committed by the alleged bootleggers.
 
 Jha said investigations must examine closely whether offences under laws other than the Gujarat Prohibition Act, such as forgery and faking vehicle registration plates are made out. “As soon as a bootlegger commits a scheduled offence that attracts PMLA directly and is significantly connected to the bootlegging, it becomes possible to invoke PMLA. It will be incumbent of police authorities to move the ED accordingly,” Jha said.
 
 New, more stringent prohibition laws with bigger fines and harsher punishments were introduced by the Gujarat government in February 2017.
 
 
