LUDHIANA: As doctors went on a strike on the call given by the Indian Medical Association (IMA), patients had a tough day at different private and government hospitals on Tuesday.

 The strike hit the functioning of OPDs for few hours in all major hospitals. But emergency wards functioned normally.
 
 Several patients who had come from far-off places waited the entire day for the strike to get over and many of them returned disappointed. 
 
 Shrishti from  , who came to get her three-month-old daughter checked at the Mother and Child Care Hospital, said, “My daughter had trouble in breathing due to extreme cold. This has been the situation since last night. At the hospital, we ran from pillar to post for around two hours to get her checked. We were forced to go to emergency section where doctors told us she is fine.”
 
 Many pregnant women and newborns went through similar pain at the mother and child care hospital.
 
 Radha, a resident of Giaspura, who had come to get her three-year-old daughter treated, said, “She has very high fever and has been vomiting since last night. But here there was no doctor to check on her.”
 
 Priya, who had come to the hospital with her husband, said, “My pregnancy is in the last stages. I have lot of pain in abdomen possibly due to severe fungal infection. I am barely able to walk. But the authorities told us that doctors are on strike and we have to wait.”
 
 But if anything happened to my child who would be held responsible, she asked. 
 
 Patients who wanted to get anti-rabies injection had trouble at the OPD of the medicine block in the Ludhiana civil hospital in the absence of doctors.
 
 Dimple, a resident of Bhagat Colony, said, “I came on Monday too, but somehow did not get the anti-rabies injection. And today, doctors went on strike. I’m really worried as it has been two days since a dog has bitten me.” 
 
 Five patients were seen waiting for the doctors outside the OPD. 
 
 The situation was worse outside the surgery OPD. Patients who were given dates for surgery and get their checkup done waited without a clue on doctors will come back or not. 
 
  from Jodhewal Basti said, “My 30-year-old son was to be operated on Tuesday. But it was cancelled.” Her son Amreek Lal said, “On Monday, all the tests were done and we were told surgery will be done today. But we just spent the day waiting for doctors.” 
 
 Rohit Kumar, another patient, said, “I had to go appendix operation, but it did not happen today.” 
 
  from Shimlapuri said, “My husband had been bed-ridden since he met with an accident. He has now got the problem of hernia. We were asked to get all the test done and toady we were called for further checkup. But no doctor checked us today due to the strike.” 
 
 Patients who had come to get the lab test done in the civil hospital faced a lot of trouble. No blood test was done for OPD patients. Many patients had an endless wait outside the lab.
 
 Meanwhile, the situation was similar at   where patients visiting the general OPDs had a harrowing day. Patients, mostly from other districts, who were suffering from chronic diseases and had taken prior appointments, were checked.
 
 Manpreet Kaur, a relative of the patient, said, “My sister had extreme pain in her abdomen and she could not sleep the entire night on Monday due to pain. So we came for her checkup at DMCH. But the OPD did not function. We have to come again tomorrow and she has to bear all the pain for another day.” 
 
 Dr Sandeep Sharma, MS, DMCH, said, “OPDs were shut as doctors were on strike against the new national medical Bill. Patients were treated who came to the emergency wards.” 
 
 At Christian Medical College and Hospital, the OPDs started late due to the strike. But doctors wore black ribbon on their arms as a symbol of protest. 
 
 Dr Bimal Kanish, secretary, IMA, Ludhiana, said, “Nearly 300 nursing homes and 1,000 clinics were closed due to strike. We regret the inconvenience to public, but this was important for us.” 
 
 Civil surgeon Hardeep Singh Ghai added, “OPDs were shut for two hours. Doctors resumed duty at 1pm immediately after the strike was over. And I have informed the higher authorities about the same.”
 
 
