Nagpur: Taking cognisance of TOI report ‘Steep fare: Just 1.37 lakh of 1.64cr used green AC buses’ of March 20, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) transport committee, on Wednesday, okayed a proposal to give ‘special discount’ of Rs2 in basic fare of green buses to the citizens. This will bring down the basic fare from Rs 14 to Rs12 for first two km.

 At the same time, to cut the losses due to basic fare cut, the panel also gave nod to hike red bus fare by Rs 2 for the first phase, from existing Rs 8 to Rs 10. 
 
 “In order to make the   service more attractive, the panel has also decided to start monthly pass facility for students from the next academic sessions (2018-19),” said transport committee deputy chairman Pravin Bhisikar. The proposals will be tabled before the general body meeting for its nod and then only the fares will be slashed, Bhisikar said. The department has also proposed to increase per km charges to be paid to the operators of red buses from the existing Rs 45 to Rs 47.90 per km (midi buses) and from Rs 49 to Rs 52.16 per km for NMC-owned standard buses. The hike in fare will take care of the additional burden, said Bhisikar.
 
 “It was also observed in the committee’s meeting that on an average 1.77 lakh passengers travel in city buses daily and around 4% of them commute without tickets,” said the senior BJP corporator.
 
 Bhisikar admitted, “The difference between green and red bus fares is huge and it deters common man from using the premium bus service.”
 
 The NMC has been running green buses from February 2017. Due to poor response, the NMC’s transport department through Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) had conducted a survey. Many passengers had cited the Rs6 difference in fares of green and red buses for a two km distance as exorbitant.
 
 From February 2017 to January 2018, the NMC had earned Rs73.99 lakh by selling tickets, while it had paid Rs1.21 crore to the bus service operators. The NMC had suffered a loss of Rs47.06 loss.
 
 Directing the department to submit income-expenditure of the city bus operations every month instead of quarterly, Bhisikar pointed out every month the NMC is incurring around Rs4.50 crore to Rs5 crore loss.
 
 The panel has also asked the department to submit a proposal to be sent to state government for seeking funds to open an Escrow account. Bhisikar also claimed that the panel expressed anguish over poor performance of the DIMTS in curbing ticketless travel.
 
 
