Panaji: In an effort to tackle air pollution in towns and cities, the central government has set out to ensure that   mitigation measures for   and demolition activities are compulsorily implemented. The measures apply to projects that require environmental clearances (EC). 

 The ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) on January 25 issued and notified amended rules, called the Environment (Protection) Amendment Rules 2018, seeking to lay down guidelines for mandatory implementation of dust mitigation measures.
 
 “Big projects with a built-up area of more than 20,000 sqm, such as government projects, private housing projects and others requiring EC will have to comply with the guidelines laid down by the MoEFCC,” an official said. This suggests that promoters of all such buildings or infrastructure projects will be required to provide an environmental management plan, inclusive of dust mitigation measures, before they receive approval.
 
 As per the new serial number 107 that has been inserted in the Environment (Protection) Rules 1986, grinding and cutting of building materials in open areas will not be allowed. It also stipulates that construction material and waste has to be deposited only within a earmarked area and that any storage of such materials by the roadside will be prohibited. Transportation of construction material and waste in an open vehicle will also be prohibited.
 
 “A construction and demolition waste processing and disposal site shall be identified and required dust mitigation measures shall be notified at the site,” the provisions in the amended rules state.
 
 The new serial numbers 106 and 107 apply to cities and towns where the value of PM10 and PM2.5 exceed the prescribed limits in national ambient air quality standards. Essentially, PM10 denotes particulate matter that is 10 micrometres or less in diameter, while PM2.5 represents matter that is 2.5 micrometres or less in diameter. A breach in PM10 and PM2.5 limits could affect respiration in healthy people and could have serious impacts on those already afflicted with lung and heart disease.
 
 The Goa State Pollution Control Board monitors ambient air quality in Panaji, Vasco, Assonora, Amona, Bicholim, Honda, Codli, Curchorem, Kundaim, Mapusa, Margao, Ponda, Sanguem, and Tilamol (Quepem). Its annual reports indicate that the value of PM10 has exceeded the prescribed limit in some instances.
 
 
