No Tamil film is complete without a love song. Often, the popularity of these love songs and their recall value ascertain whether a film will do well or not. And we have no surprise when it comes to the winner of the first edition of the Chennai Times Best Romantic Songs of 2017 — Neethanae from  . The soundtrack of the film, by AR Rahman, had some upbeat numbers, and Neethanae, which released as the second single, in August, was received with much enthusiasm. The song, rendered beautifully by Rahman and Shreya Ghoshal, is a lilting melody. The strings score, especially the sitar interlude, was a huge plus. The song ruled the charts for a large part of 2017 and the votes it received prove that it was indeed one of the most popular numbers of the year. The charts also saw songs from films like Velaikkaran, Vikram Vedha, Kaatru Veliyidai, and Baahubali 2: The Conclusion. Interestingly, Maruvaarthai the single from the yet-to-release Enai Noki Paayum Thota, too, scored high on the charts.

 After taking into account the votes we received on The Times of India website, along with the number of online streams, downloads and an internal jury, here’s our list of the Top 10 Romantic Songs of 2017 that ruled the charts last year...
 
 1: Samantha and   in Neethanae from Mersal
  
  
 2: Darbuka Siva made us melt with Maruvaarthai from the yet-to-release Enai Noki Paayum Thota
  
  
 
 3: Sivakarthikeyan and Nayanthara showed us what unconditional love looks like in Iraiva from Velaikkaran
  
  
 
 4: Madhavan and Shraddha Srinath shared a beautiful bond in Yaanji from Vikram Vedha
  
  
 
 5: Not just Vijay, the audiences, too, fell for Keerthy Suresh in Nillayo from Bairavaa
  
  
 
 6: How romantic was Karthi while proposing to Aditi Rao Hydari in Azhagiye from Kaatru Veliyidai
 
  
 
 7: Jayam Ravi and Hansika killed it with their chemistry in Senthoora from Bogan
  
  
 
 8: Remya Nambeesan and Sathyaraj showed us how a breezy romance looks in Yavvana from Sathya 
  
  
 
 9: Aditi Rao Hydari and Karthi looked like a dream in Vaan Varuvaan from Kaatru Veliyidai 
  
  
 
 10: Orey Oar Ooril from Bãhubali 2 was a stunning flight of imagination that was distinctly Rajamouli
  
  
 
