BENGALURU: Shifting gears from writing letters to   ministers and protests against “imposition of Hindi”, pro-Kannada activists have launched a massive online campaign against the  , accusing it of hurting Kannada sentiments. The activists claim they’ve already got hundreds of supporters online and the number will only swell since they have lakhs of members.

 BJP leaders have hit back, saying that such organizations are puppets in the hands of the Siddaramaiah-led Congress, which is using people’s sentiments to gain political mileage. But the activists claim that they neither support the   nor the JD(S), but are urging people not to vote for the BJP because of the saffron party’s anti-Kannada stand.
 
 Union minister DV Sadananda Gowda, also a former Karnataka chief minister, however, argued: “We’ve always been pro-Kannada and there is enough proof of that. Our party has been instrumental in allowing Railway exams in Kannada and getting permission for NEET in the state language. Besides, minister (Prakash) Javadekar has promised to increase financial sanctions for Kannada in universities, and agreed to write to the   to make it one of the languages recognized by the world body, based on requests from the Kannada Sahitya Parishat.”
 
 The BJP, while accusing the activists of toeing the Congress line, says that such planned attacks will not dent the party’s image in the minds of the people, who are aware of its contributions.
 
 JD(S) parliamentarian   said: “Our party is the real regional party whereas Congress and BJP are national parties and are different sides of the same coin. They’ve neglected local issues, including water and language. So our advice to pro-Kannada activists is to support our party, which is fighting for them.”
 
 Kannada Rakshana Vedike (KRV) president Narayana Gowda, who claimed the campaign was started by activists independent of his organization, said KRV or other activists are not “slaves of any political party” and would oppose anybody who does not support Kannada.
 
 
 
 
 Former Karnataka law minister Suresh Kumar, accusing CM Siddaramaiah of not being honest with the people, said: “Just like he and the Congress have become election-Hindus (claiming the religion only for poll gain), he is also election-Kannada. The Congress, unlike the BJP, has nothing to show as it has done nothing for Kannada, so he is using such organizations and activists to target our party.”
 
 Pointing out that BJP played a key role in naming Bengaluru airport Kempegowda International Airport, and the city railway station as Sangolli Rayanna Station, Kumar said guerilla warfare is under way online, and the Congress is misusing people’s sentiments because it has nothing to show.
 
 KPCC general secretary BS Shivanna said, “KRV is a pro-Kannada organization and the Siddaramaiah-led government is also pro-Kannada. It is only coincidental that they seem to be on the same page. The BJP should stop the blame game and get down to doing something for regional causes, including the issues of language and water.”
 
