KOLKATA: A   and the   of the   carried out a   at the launch from which the  , Arindam Bose (42), had gone missing on Saturday.

 The investigating team also made some seizures from the launch but the search for the missing executive drew another blank.
 
 Port division police said that they have recorded the statements of five persons so far, who had been present on the launch from which Bose fell off. “So far we have not found any discrepancies. All of them maintained that the victim had gone to the toilet located on the opposite side of the area where they were standing and he might have fallen off once he came out of the toilet. They said none saw him falling,” said an officer.
 
 Cops said they will investigate all angles as a murder case was registered by the West Port police. “We have contacted the forensics team. They will be coming and inspecting the launch soon,” said an officer. Cops said they record the statement of the motorman, who was closest to the spot from which Bose fell and was the first to raise alarm. The cops said part of the probe will also establish if there was any negligence on the part of the cabin crew.
 
 “We had made changes after a youngster drowned while boating in the Hooghly. Now, most boatmen insist that you wear life jackets. We are now studying whether the safety measures are being adopted across other river cruises, including those on the Brahmaputra in Guwahati. If required, Kolkata Police will be framing specific guidelines after consulting experts who have competence in this field,” explained an officer at Lalbazar.
 
 The Bose family had cried foul play and lodged a murder complaint on Sunday. Over 22 hours of search operation by 12 police divers over three days proved futile so far. While Floatel management lodged a missing diary, Bose’s wife lodged a murder complaint on Sunday.
 
 TOI had reported the incident on Sunday mentioning that his body could not be traced till late on Saturday night when search operations were called off because of poor visibility and heavy water current. The incident occurred around 4.15pm while the launch was on its back to Floatel.
 
 
