Among the many plaques in her showcase, neatly arranged beside an aquarium was a black and white photograph of   with a moustachioed man -- Major Menon, her husband. She still had that big kumkum bindi on her forehead. Her hair was loose, fluttering over a sleeveless blouse. The major looked too serious beside the ever-smiling Leela.

 Those who have glimpsed this photograph would attest to the fact that the couple was a contradiction in the truest sense of the term. Leelechi – as she was fondly called – claimed to be a practising feminist. But when the major shouted for his drink in not-so-decent lingo, Leelechi would rush to pour him another large. We – a few young journos who worked with her then -- would demand an explanation, but Leelechi would giggle and babble in her kindergarten tone: “You guys don’t know what is life. This is another phase of it.’’
 
 Yet, we were the only people who was there in her moment of sorrow when she mourned her soldier husband. Of course, she came out of it much faster than we thought, bouncing back with stories and exclusives. She was always a fighter. At a simple level, she would fight with colleagues younger to her by many decades to see her byline on the first day of every month. That is why, even before she became a   she was a story. Not many know Leelechi’s inspiration to become a journalist was a woman journalist who had interviewed Leelechi when she was a postal department clerk!
 
 She went on to carve a niche for herself in journalism. Her story on the Vypeen hooch tragedy about a victim who died in her arms caught national attention. But what announced her arrival was a feature on a Palakkad village where women were forced into prostitution. She, perhaps, lost count of how many stories she did during her tenure. In her biography, she does mention a few. But the untold stories are many. Leela was an editor’s reporter who would never say no to an assignment – mind you this was in the pre-internet, pre-mobile era. The digital generation would read her story with disbelief.
 
 Leelechi is already folklore -- the feminist who longed for men’s company, the modernist who believed in all the mumbo-jumbo of astrology, the liberal who was a conservative in her approach to society. These contradictions sum up Leela Menon, who always denied you a chance to understand her properly. She would always give the slip much like the sashaying fish in the aquarium, next to the moustachioed major.
 
 Maybe she did have her own way of explaining these contradictions. But, along with her mortal remains, many things that Kerala wanted to know too would be cremated. There are many queries we would like to get answers to, including why   really become Kamala Surraiya? Whether the latter did really regret conversion? Leela knew the answers but would have just giggled, leaving you more puzzled. Of course, that is the way she was. That is the mystique of Leela Menon.
 
 
