Mysuru: Two of the 11   — on the premises of the CADA office and   — have sent historians and heritage lovers into a tizzy as both buildings are heritage structures and they feel the canteens are an eyesore. 

 The first set of canteens here were launched by chief minister Siddaramaiah on January 12.
 
 Though it’s mandatory to put forth the proposal of any construction near heritage buildings, the norms seem to have been flouted as the proposal for these canteens never made it to the heritage committee headed by the deputy commissioner.
 
 Stating that the sanctity of heritage buildings will be lost due to the canteens, Bhamy Shenoy of the Mysore   (MGP), said, “When any change has to be made to heritage buildings, justified or not, permission has to be obtained from the heritage building. Otherwise, the sanctity of the building is lost. It’s not advisable to house an Indira Canteen inside the hospital as it’ll most likely attract members of the public who are not patients or their relatives and can give rise to problems. Housing canteens on land surrounding both these heritage buildings will affect their beauty.”
 
 Pointing out that housing a canteen at   and CADA office will mar the aesthetic beauty of these heritage buildings, historian Echanur Kumar said, “The canteens should not have been set up at these two places as they mar the look of the heritage buildings. They could have been set up outside. Though an objection was filed by the heritage department, the canteen was set up ignoring it.”
 
 The compound of the CADA office is already in a dilapidated condition and the canteen which attracts crowds in huge numbers will spell doom for the structure, Echanur Kumar added.
 
 The heritage regulations not being followed spells doom for these buildings, according to N S Rangaraju, retired professor of ancient history and archaeology, University of Mysore. 
 
 “The Indira Canteens benefit the poor and the structure can be dismantled at any moment. Since the heritage regulation act has not been passed for the past seven years, many heritage buildings are under threat. The KR hospital and CADA office have not been declared heritage buildings; they have only been listed as such. All heritage buildings in   have not been declared heritage buildings for reasons best known to the people in charge,” Rangaraju added.
 
 ‘Special case’
 
 As a special case, we sanctioned permission for canteens to be set up on the premises of KR Hospital and CADA office as we had to meet deadlines. However, no changes to the façade of the hospital or office were made due to the canteen and that’s why we sanctioned it. The proposal did not come up before the heritage committee. As canteens are for the benefit of the public and not for individuals, we sanctioned them. In future, we’ll follow the regular process of obtaining and sanctioning permission.
 
 D Randeep | deputy commissioner
 
 
