PATNA: The   Municipal Corporation ( ) claimed to have succeeded in removing 85% of the 1500 tonne   from the transit point adjacent to   hospital on Monday, which was the deadline set by Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi on Saturday. 

 While the DM had set the deadline for removal of the entire garbage from the transit point, PMC officials had expressed their inability to complete the job till Monday owing to congestion in the area and lack of required manpower and resources.
 
 The civic body increased the number of commercial tipper trucks used for lifting garbage from 8 to 14, which made more than 50 trips on Sunday. The vehicles carried garbage from the transit point at Gardanibagh to the landfill site at Ramachak Bairiya located near Zero Miles on  .
 
 A mountain of pungent smelling garbage was raised at the site causing trouble to the people residing nearby, especially patients admitted to Gardanibagh hospital with health problems.
 
 PMC’s New Capital Circle executive officer Shailesh Kumar said: “Fourteen trucks were deployed for transporting the garbage to Ramachak Bairiya. The trucks made more than 60 rounds on Monday and approximately 85% of the garbage dumped there was disposed of from this transit point.”
 
 DM Kumar Ravi, on the other hand, said: “PMC is supposed to submit a report on Tuesday morning, explaining the current situation at the site. After the submission of report, a team will be sent to the site for inspection.”
 
 He said bleaching powder would be sprinkled at the site to overcome the foul stench after the entire garbage is removed. “No big trucks will be permitted to unload the garbage at this transit point further. For maintaining minimum garbage deposition at this secondary transit location, only small trucks will be permitted to dump garbage collected from 32 wards of the city,” Ravi said.
 
 The DM said a permanent alternate location that can act as a transit point without causing trouble to the denizens is being looked for. “The garbage from this secondary dumping site will be carried by hywa without any irregularities,” he added.
 
 
