PIMPRI: Two Std XI commerce students allegedly attacked their 17-year-old classmate with choppers at   and junior college in Chinchwadgaon around 8am on Monday.

  sustained injuries on his shoulder, hands and waist. “He has been admitted to the intensive care unit of a nearby private hospital. He is out of danger,” an officer from the   said.
 
 
 Rupesh was allegedly attacked after he threatened to complain against the two classmates for throwing paper balls in the classroom, one of which hit him, a few days ago.
 
 Hindurao Kalantre, principal of the junior college, said one of the alleged attackers told Rupesh in the classroom around 8am that the principal had summoned him to his office. “As Rupesh was heading towards the office, the two boys attacked him brutally with choppers,” he said.
 
 The attack caused panic in the institution with students, teachers and staffers rushing to Rupesh’s help.
 
 Classmates attack 17-year-old with choppers in Chinchwad
 
 A profusely bleeding Rupesh was taken to the private hospital. The two classmates, both minors, fled from the institution with their choppers.
 
 Senior inspector Vitthal Kubade of the Chinchwad police said the two alleged attackers live at Hinjewadi and Thergaon.
 
 “We have registered an offence under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the   against them. We are questioning the parents of the boys for clues on their whereabouts. The boys have switched off their cellphones. Their parents have told us that both are incorrigible and do not study well. However, they do not have any criminal history,” he said.
 
 The two boys came to college on Monday after remaining absent for a few days before that. “They did not, however, attend classes on Monday. They were in their college uniforms and were carrying the choppers in their school bags. It is not physically possible to check the bags of every student. Incidentally, an SSC (Std X) examination paper was to begin at 10am at the institution, a little after the attack,” Kalantre said.
 
 Rupesh’s mother, Chhaya, told TOI that her son had had a heated argument with the two boys around four days ago when they were throwing paper balls.
 
 “I was at home on Monday when I got a call from my husband saying that Rupesh had been attacked. By the time I went to the college, he had been taken to hospital. My son is good in studies. He works as an attendant at the boat club in Thergaon to support his education as we are poor. My husband is a taxi driver and I have three more children,” she said. Shri Fattechand Jain school and junior college is one of the oldest academic institutions in Pimpri Chinchwad.
 
 In December 2016, a junior college student was arrested for assaulting another student at the college gate in  .
 
