KOTTAYAM: Three accused in   Joseph murder case — including his lover Neenu’s father Chacko John and brother Shanu Chacko — were detained on Tuesday. Chacko and Shanu surrendered before police at Karikottakary near Iritty, Kannur while Manu, a member of the quotation gang, was nabbed from Thenmala.

 
 Police said Chacko and Shanu had gone to Bengaluru after the probe began. Three accused in the case – Niyaz, Riyas and Ishan – arrested earlier have been remanded in judicial custody till June 12.
 
 A preliminary autopsy report, meanwhile, said Kevin died of drowning. There were over 15 injuries on his body but these are not considered fatal. Police are expected to get a detailed report on Wednesday.
 
 CM Pinarayi Vijayan told a function in Kollam that the sub inspector committed a serious dereliction of duty in the matter. He said the girl’s parents, who married out of caste, should have realized the changes in the society. He was also critical of news channels.
 
 
 
 
 Preliminary autopsy reports suggest Kevin Joseph died of drowning but the authorities said they can make a confirmation only after receiving the examination report of the internal organs.
 
 There were over 15 injury marks on Kevin’s body, sustained from physical assault. However, these injuries did not cause his death, the report said. A detailed report will be handed over to the investigation officers on Wednesday.
 
 There were four injuries on the face. Some wounds on the body were deep suggesting that he was assaulted repeatedly on the same spot. Some injuries on the body indicated that he was dragged on the ground.
 
 The autopsy report also indicated that the dead body was in the water for over 24 hours, suggesting that he was dead on Sunday morning itself. There were 42 grams of undigested food in the body. The body had begun to show signs of decay. His eyes were also badly injured.
 
 Hours before, CPM men and activists of the Cherama Sambava Development Society (CSDS) clashed with each other at the mortuary premises at the Kottayam medical college hospital (MCH) as Kevin’s body was taken out into the ambulance. Police resorted to lathicharge. One person was injured in stone pelting.
 
 In the morning, members of the DYFI, the KPMS, Youth Congress, BJP, the BDJS, the BSP, the AAP and the CSDS had gathered at the front gates of the medical college.
 
 Once Kevin’s body was brought home, thousands of people, including women and children, assembled at his residence, Vattapara House in Nattasserry, to get a last glimpse of the youth,who was killed, ignoring the rains and despite the call for a hartal.
 
 The ambulance carrying Kevin’s body reached his home at around 11am.  , along with Kevin’s parents and sister who have been waiting with prayers since Sunday morning for his safe return, broke into a screaming wail at the sight of their loved one in the coffin.
 
 By 2.35pm, the body was taken to the Mount Carmel Church in Kunnumbhagam, the home parish of Kevin. From there, it was taken to the cemetery of Good Shepherd Church in Kottayam, where the funeral was held.
 
 
