Jaipur: While Europe has struggled to remember the Holocaust, to pass down its memory and never forget the horror of Hitler’s annihilation of six million Jews, we in India have a different approach to violence and genocide said Delhi University Hindi teacher Apoorvanand at a lecture on the birth anniversary of city educationist Hemlata Prabhu on Monday.

 Apoorvanand quoted from German sociologist Theodor Adorno’s ‘Education after Auschwitz’. “Adorno said that the aim of all education should be to ensure that the horror that is now memorialized in the museum at Auschwitz, the concentration camp in occupied Poland, is never repeated. At Auschwitz, we can watch with horror the heap of little shoes, and imagine the little feet that were led into gas chambers. We can see how the regime saw use for human skin, for the fillings of gold or silver in the teeth of the dead,” the professor said. 
 
 “In India, what we have is episodic violence – only recently, the government decided that NCERT books will no longer refer to the violence in Gujarat in 2002 as “anti-Muslim”. That will just be termed “riots”. We wish not to be reminded of the cruelty that we are capable of. In 1984, 3,000 Sikhs were killed in a matter of days – imagine how many people might have been responsible for that. Perhaps 30,000 people? Perhaps more? Where are those people who set the tyres of vehicles on fire? Who prevented Sikhs from escaping to safety? They live among us. Some of them perhaps now write textbooks for children,” Apoorvanand said, indicating that gore and violence is normalized. 
 
 Apoorvanand also warned against finding cause for violence by examining the victim – even those who call for peace and dignity of Muslims talk of how they weave the Banarsi sarees used in Hindu weddings, for instance. “That is a trap. Even among Muslims, there will be pickpockets and rapists. If we can only relate to people and treat them with dignity because we can somehow establish their goodness or their connection to us, then how would we ever relate to someone we have never had a history with, and someone our future may not allow us to establish a connection with?”
 
 The lecture was on education and violence. Apoorvanand said education itself is being turned into an exercise to create docile citizens, who follow the bidding of people in power. “Young people are not encouraged either to think reflexively of themselves or of society. This, despite the insights of Sri Aurobindo, Gandhi and Rabindranath Tagore. Today is the birthday of Shakespeare, who so closely examined violence and what it does to people; it is also the birthday of Pandita Ramabai, champion of women’s education. Despite the richness of our inheritance and our association with Hemlata Prabhu, education seems inadequate,” Apoorvanand said. 
 
 Hemlata Prabhu, teacher of English literature at Maharani College and later Kanodia Girls’ College, was born on April 23, 1920. She moved to Jaipur after finishing her education at what was then the city of Madras. She died in June 2006. Since 2012, former students have gathered each year to commemorate her birth anniversary. 
 
 
