BENGALURU: Confusion prevailed over the schedule for the forthcoming assembly elections in   after the   (EC) indicated that it would defer the announcement of election dates by a month in view of a series of exams in March-April.

 On Monday, Chief Election Commissioner   told a news channel in New Delhi that dates for the polls will be announced in mid-April instead of mid-March. It sent political circles into a tizzy.
 
 “In Karnataka, school board examinations are likely to be over by the end of March and other examinations around April 14,” Rawat. “Keeping that in mind, we will announce poll dates around April 15.” Rawat cited complaints the EC received from children on the noise and chaos that elections cause during exams in Gorakhpur and Phulpur Lok Sabha constituencies, where by-elections are scheduled on March 11.
 
 His comments raised eyebrows and gave way to speculation that the election may be held on May 13 (Sunday) as against May 6 (Sunday). The new state assembly has to be formed before May 28, as the current assembly's tenure ends on that day.
 
 During his visit to Karnataka earlier this month, Rawat had indicated that they will consider factors like examination, peak summer, festivals, law and order situation and force requirement before finalizing the poll schedule.
 
 The ruling   reacted with surprise and caution to Rawat’s comments. “We have not come across any such announcement from the Election Commission,” said   spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala. “Even if they delay elections in Karnataka, we have no problem. We are well-placed here.”
 
 The party had cried foul when the EC had deferred polls in   last year, alleging that it has accorded unfair advantage to the ruling BJP. Party sources said the deferment of polls will be an advantage to the Congress government here as they will get more time to make new announcements and launch fresh projects.
 
 
 
 Countering Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘seeda rupaiyya’ jibe, home minister B Ramalinga Reddy on Tuesday claiming: “The previous BJP government in Karnataka was a cheque sarkar.”
 
 Reddy insisted that when Modi talks about corruption, he should also talk about the previous BJP government which allegedly accepted bribes through cheques. “When BJP was at the helm in the BBMP, they had to burn documents fearing that their misdeeds would be exposed. The retired justice Nagmohandas committee is probing the case,” Reddy said.
 
 Water resources minister M B Patil also took a dig at Modi’s jibe, asking how the prime minister can talk about corruption while sharing the dais with B S Yedyurappa and Amit Shah.
 
 Patil also questioned the prime minister’s silence on Nirav Modi and Lalit Modi. both of whom are embroiled in scams and who fled the country.
 
 On Shah’s promise to resolve the Mahadayi water dispute issue if the BJP is voted to power in Karnataka, Patil said the Mahadayi water dispute tribunal is likely to solve the dispute by August. “So, where is question of BJP resolving the dispute,” he wondered.
 
 
