CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday granted bail to Rameshwar Dass, a health inspector in the Municipal Corporation of Delhi, who had been arrested as part of investigation into the murder of 16-year-old Junaid  , who was lynched to death on a train in June last year.

 Justice A B   granted Dass bail while allowing the petition filed by the accused.
 
 In his bail plea, 52-year-old Rameshwar Dass, a resident of Khambi village in Haryana’s   district, had submitted that he was not named in the FIR and had been arrested on June 28, 2017 for ulterior reasons.
 
 He also claimed that Junaid’s death was case of sudden fight due to sharing of a seat and there was no previous enmity.
 
 “As per the version of FIR, allegations are against some boys who fought with the victim. Accordingly, even as per the FIR version, I was not to be shown to be involved in the said fight as it was stated to be between the victim and 2-3 boys who were travelling in the same coach of the train. Even otherwise, the role attributed to me was similar to the three other accused who have already been granted bail,” the petitioner had argued while seeking bail.
 
 Junaid was stabbed to death on board a Mathura-bound train after an argument over a seat. The incident had triggered a mob attack on the deceased’s brother and two cousins between Okhla and Asoti in Haryana, near Delhi.
 
 The trial of the case was pending before the district court in Faridabad. However, on March 19, the   had stayed the trial on plea of Junaid’s father Jalaluddin who has been seeking a CBI probe into the incident.
 
 Junaid’s father had filed an appeal, submitting that his son’s killing was “motivated by deep rooted communal hatred against victim’s community.” He had sought directions to set aside the November 27, 2017 orders passed by the Punjab and Haryana high court, declining his plea to hand over the matter to CBI.
 
 The trial of the case was at present pending before the Faridabad court.   was stabbed in June 2017 on board a Mathura-bound train after an argument over a seat. The incident had turned into a religious slurs and triggered a mob attack on Junaid’s brother and two cousins on board the train between Okhla and Asoti in Haryana near Delhi.
 
 
