BENGALURU: The failure of the   to communicate changes in   has affected many people planning to travel to   since January. Several Indians have lost hundreds of euros in the process.

 
  
 
 The   in some cities and January 2018 in a few others have the passport number perforated from the first page as compared to the middle of the booklet earlier. The German consulates said these cannot be accepted as   hadn’t informed them of the change.
 
 By Monday evening, some applicants, whose visas were stuck at the consulate, told TOI they’ve been getting calls from VFS centres in Bengaluru, Pune and other cities that their applications will be processed.
 
 
 
 
 A 28-year-old woman, who works for an IT firm headquartered in the US, told TOI from Mumbai: “I’ve been working here for seven years and have been travelling regularly to Germany for six years. For the time, the German consulate in Mumbai refused to stamp my passport, and said they’ve not been informed about the new security feature (perforated numbers). Since then, I’ve been running around to various government offices, but in vain.”
 
 The woman said she had paid 1,200 euros rent to an apartment owner in Germany and 1,200 euros more will be deducted this month. “We have to prebook apartments and make payments. Luckily, I haven’t booked my flight tickets,” she said.
 
 In an email to another applicant, the visa section of the German consulate in Mumbai wrote: “Perforation is a security feature done by the Indian government. Since there is change with the specification now, for which we have not been informed officially. Hence, we have put your son’s application on hold.”
 
 The VFS-Germany website had posted a notice that it will not accept these new passports from February 18 and said applicants must acertain the reasons from the Indian government. The website had a picture of the type of passport that won’t be accepted. But according to the woman from Mumbai, her passport was rejectedbefore January 18.
 
 With many people losing money and having to cancel their plans, they have been calling regional passport offices and officials in New Delhi. More than 50 of them have formed a WhatsApp group and collectively tweeting to officials and external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj, but haven’t elicited any response.
 
 On Monday morning, TOI called the chief passport officer’s office in Delhi. An official said: “Send an email and your problem will be addressed.”
 
 
 
 
