GURUGRAM: A 28-year-old junior engineer allegedly smashed the head of his wife with a hard object and fled his rented house in Jharsa village on Thursday night, leaving his two-year-old daughter alone beside the body for the whole night.

 Neighbours and the landlord of the house came to know about the murder after a six-year-old local boy, who had come to play with the toddler around 8am on Friday, found Veera (24) lying in a blood-soaked bed with the minor girl sleeping next to her.
 
 Police found a hammer and a cleaver with bloodstains in the room where the woman was found murdered. Prima facie it seemed that the murder was the outcome of a bitter fight between Veera and her husband  , who was allegedly a habitual drinker, police said.
 
 Ashok, originally from Mangala in Sirsa district, worked as a junior engineer with a Sector 32-based construction company. He had been living with wife Veera and their minor daughter in a rented accommodation on the ground floor of a two-storey building in Prempuri colony of Jharsa village.
 
 Preliminary probe revealed Ashok had an altercation with Veera on Thursday night, which apparently led to the murder. When the boy from the neighbourhood came to play with the toddler, he found the main door open. As he went inside looking for the girl, he found the body in the bedroom. The boy then called out for his parents. Hearing the boy shouting, landlord Anil, who lives on the first floor, came downstairs and found that the girl was still asleep beside her mother. He took the girl with him upstairs and called police.
 
 Later, Veera’s brother Satpal reached the spot and filed a police complaint, accusing her husband of the murder. “They had got married around 8 years ago. But of late, they had been fighting frequently. He (Ashok) was an alcoholic and my sister did not like it, which was the reason behind the regular tiffs between them. He had beaten her several times in the past. In fact, she had gone to my house after a similar fight with her husband and had returned only on February 13,” Satpal said.
 
 Based on his complaint, an FIR has been filed against Ashok under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC at Sadar police station.
 
 “Prima facie it seems that a fight between the couple led to the murder. We have formed three teams and are conducting raids to nab the man, who is still absconding,” said inspector Sandeep Singh, SHO, Sadar police station.
 
