LUCKNOW: Opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh face a test of unity in the elections to the 10   and 12 UP legislative council seats, scheduled to be held in March and April, respectively. Earlier, they haven’t been able to strike an alliance for   and Phulpur Lok Sabha bypolls.

 Going by its strength in the UP assembly, the opposition can win two seats each in the RS and legislative council only when SP, BSP,   and RLD come together.
 
 
  
 
 With 47 MLAs,   Yadav-led SP can win one RS seat and still have 10 MLAs to spare, and grab one MLC seat and have 16 MLAs to spare. BSP (19 MLAs) and Congress (seven MLAs) can’t win a single seat on its own, which may force them to strike a deal with SP to ensure that one more seat comes in the opposition’s kitty.
 
 
 BJP and allies can easily win eight of the 10 RS seats and 10 of the 12 legislative council seats. With a good number of spare votes, BJP will eye a ninth seat by fielding an additional candidate, who may sail through in absence of an opposition unity or by cross-voting.
 
 
 Even as it is sure to win one RS seat, SP tally in the Upper House will come down from 18 to 13 with its six members, including Naresh Agarwal, Jaya Bachchan and Kironmoy Nada, retiring on April 2.
 
 
 Similarly, BSP’s RS tally will come down from five to four following the retirement of its MP Munquad Ali. Congress leader Pramod Tewari is also retiring.
 
 
 The situation is bad for the opposition in the legislative council, dominated by SP with 61 members. Out of the 12 retiring MLCs, seven are from SP, including Akhilesh, state president Naresh Uttam and chief spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary. One of its former MLC, Ambika Chaudhary, who joined BSP before 2017 polls, had quit from the council in 2017. Since SP is sure to win one seat, its tally in the council will come to 55.
 
 
 BSP tally in council will dip from nine to seven as its two members, legislative council leader Sunil Chittor and MLC Vijay Pratap, are retiring. BSP’s Jaiveer Singh had switched over to BJP and resigned from the council in September last year, to pave way for BJP’s Mohsin Raza.
 
 
 Ajit Singh’s Rashtriya Lok Dal will not have any representation in the council with its lone MLC,  , is retiring.
 
 
 The Election Commission is likely to issue notification for RS elections after Holi. According to sources, it plans to complete poll process by March 23. Subsequently, it will issue notification for 12 legislative council seats.
 
