MUMBAI: Not a single person or organisation turned up for the public hearing for the city’s draft   (CZMP).

 The hearing was held by Mumbai suburban district collector’s office in October last year. In a submission to Supreme Court the suburban resident collector, Nitin Mahajan, said news of the public hearing was published in two papers (Navshakti and Free Press Journal). The hearing was held on October 18.
 
 “Objectives of the hearing are to received suggestions/ objections in writing of affected persons for onward submission to the member secretary,   (MCZMA). No any (sic) suggestions/objections in writing or orally received during hearing. Public Hearing declared as ended.”
 
 D Stalin, conservationist with NGO Vanashakti, had challenged the high court order allowing construction proposals to be approved based on Coastal Zone Management Plan prepared in the ’90s. Vanashakti has been demanding that the new CZMP be prepared and publicised since 2013.
 
 “We even filed a plea before   (NGT), asking that the draft CZMP be published and no proposals be sanctioned till it is finalised. Our plea was accepted by NGT but challenged before the high court which stayed the NGT order. We challenged the stay in Supreme Court. Isn’t it strange that even we did not think it fit to go for the public hearing?” he said.
 
 Rajesh Mangela, advisor to National Fishermen’s Forum, alleged that the notices were published in obscure papers so no one would come for the hearing. “The draft CZMP does not reflect Mumbai’s Koliwadas. How can they draw up a coastal plan and not show reality on ground. About 10 fishermen’s societies had filed objections. It is a matter of survival for us. Wouldn’t we have gone for the hearing after having filed objections?” he said.
 
 Stalin said the published draft CZMP is incomplete as it does not show koliwadas. “It’s vital that integrity of the coast is maintained, not subverted or diverted...,” he said.
 
 Madhukar Lad, regional officer, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, said objections, suggestions received before the public hearing have been submitted to MCZMA.
 
 
