Juggling blazing bottles and breathing fire behind the bar -   bartending is quite impressive to watch. However, it can also be dangerous when not done by a trained bartender. Following the massive fire in Mumbai's   that claimed 14 lives - and speculation that it might have been a result of 'fire acrobatics' in the restaurant where the fire started - authorities have asked pubs and restaurants in Delhi to refrain from any fire-related activity. Inspections were also carried out by Fire Department officials and the Delhi Police on New Year’s Eve in the city. The police issued fire safety advisories to restaurants and asked them not to carry out any fire acrobatics.

  Restaurateurs and   in the city say that they don't usually carry out fire flair bartending, and when it is done, it is with adequate safety measures. However, the police says that separate permission is required to perform any fire-related activity.
 
  
  
 
  
 After issuing two fire safety advisories to restaurants and pubs on New Year's Eve, the Delhi Police also asked them not to do any fire acrobatics. Dependra Pathak, Special CP and spokesperson, Delhi Police, says, "From the last two-three years, there has been a rise in fire acrobatics in restaurants. But these activities are not allowed in restaurants as they are a safety hazard. In the fire license of restaurants, it is mentioned that they can't carry out any fire-related activities without taking permission, and a separate license is needed for it."
 
  However, restaurants rarely seek permission for it. "Restaurants need separate permission for fire amusement activities, regardless of how minor the use of fire is," Pathak emphasises. District police officials across the capital have been asked to do regular surprise visits and to ensure that no restaurant is involved in any fire-related activity. The police warn that violating fire safety norms might lead to cancellation of the license of the restaurant.
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Kuldeep Singh Chauhan has been working as a bartender for the last 12 years. He has worked in several five-star hotel clubs and restaurants in Delhi. He says that fire flaring is a part of 'showtending', and mixologists and bartenders have to undergo specialized training for it. "We do it on the request of the management when there is some special party at the venue. At commercial bars, the focus is on mixology, but when there is a party and added drama is required, we are asked to do fire flaring," he says.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 Pic: Satish Jaiswal; Picture for representational purposes only
 
  However, he adds that he has also turned down fire flaring requests when he felt that the space available was not appropriate for it. "When there is a party or occasions like New Year's Eve, we are offered Rs5,000-8,000 for fire flaring. We make sure that we do not do it if the space is too crowded or there are curtains nearby. We also keep water with us, in case anything goes wrong. We do not do fire flaring in non-smoking areas or if the restaurant has smoke detectors. However, I have never heard of any license or permission required to do fire flaring," says Kuldeep.
 
  
  
 
  He also says that any fire flaring should not last for more than two minutes. "There are three major acts in fire flaring - bottle juggling, mouth flaring and fire on the edges of the bar counter. For bottle juggling, napkins soaked in diesel or lighter fuel are stuffed in a bottle's neck, and it is the easiest and least risky act if one is properly trained in fire flaring. Setting the bar edges on fire is rare and lasts only for two seconds. The most risky is mouth flaring, in which the bartender has diesel in his mouth and sprays it out. I have seen most accidents happen in the last case, and many people who are not properly trained end up burning their mouths. However, I have never seen any damage happen to the property because of fire flaring," says Kuldeep.
 
  
  ANOTHER RISKY ACT DISCONTINUED: The use of liquid nitrogen in drinks and desserts was banned in Haryana last July, after a guest suffered serious injury after consuming a drink made with liquid nitrogen in a Gurgaon pub
 
  
 Fire flaring has become an outdated concept in bartending, says Minakshi Singh, a mixologist and a bartender. "It is no more considered a classy thing in Delhi bars, and is only done in clubs or during special party nights. It is more popular in weddings, since it is a part of showtending," she says.
 
  
  
 
  Bartender Aryan Chopra, who performs fire acrobatics in weddings and private events in Delhi, agrees that fire flaring is in demand at weddings, and people mostly ask for mouth flaring. "Since it is in demand, many artists who are not even trained agree to do it and end up burning themselves. They don’t know that it is done with either diesel or the fuel used in lighters, and not petrol. In the beginning of my career, I suffered major burns because I did mouth flaring with petrol," says Chopra.
 
  
 
 
