CHANDIGARH: The Union government has clarified that the decision to drop the chargesheet against Magsaysay awardee and whistleblower   (IFS) officer   was taken after due process of law. 

 In a fresh affidavit submitted before the   and   high court on behalf of the cabinet secretariat, the Centre has also stated that irrespective of his place of posting in Haryana,   being an officer of an all-India service was governed by the Union government as far as taking action against him was concerned. The affidavit has been filed by the Centre in response to February 7 order of the high court, in which Justice P B Bajanthri had asked it to file an independent affidavit explaining whether it (Union of India) could interfere in a disciplinary matter till a final order is passed under the   (Disciplinary and Appeal) Rules, 1969 or not.
 
 Responding to the HC queries, the Centre has clarified that under the constitutional scheme, the subject of all-India service is part of the Union list. “Further the President of India is the appointing authority with respect to all India service officers and only president/central government have the powers of dismissal, removal and compulsory retirement under rule 7 (2) of All India Service Rules, 1969, and even in respect of minor penalties it is mandatory for the state government to take consent of the UPSC, and in case of any difference of opinion with the UPSC, the orders of the central government will be final. The cadre controlling authority and appellate authority of IFS officers is ministry of environment, forest and climate change, New Delhi,” states the affidavit.
 
 The central government has also said that Chaturvedi had sent a representation on August 30, 2010, to the President under Rule 25 of the All India Service Rules against the chargesheet served to him by the Haryana government on September 14, 2007. “On his representation, an in-house inquiry was also ordered by the ministry to ascertain the relevant facts and to take appropriate action as advised by the cabinet secretariat. Thus it was not a suo motu inquiry. After examining the findings of the inquiry and communications with the Haryana government, the ministry of environment and forest had quashed the chargesheet,” the Centre has claimed.
 
 The matter is now listed for hearing before the HC on Tuesday.
 
 The central government’s affidavit may weaken the stand of the Haryana government, which has been contending that the Ministry of Environment and Forests had illegally constituted a committee that had given clean chit to Chaturvedi and indicted state government officials. It has been further contended by Haryana that the committee had submitted a report casting aspersions against its officials without giving them any opportunity of hearing and the orders of the Central government were unconstitutional and violated the principles of natural justice.
 
 
