GURUGRAM: Mobile phone stores in the city are refusing to give new connections to customers without verifying their   card details in violation of the   clarification that providing the same is not mandatory. 

 “We cannot give a new connection without Aadhaar details because the process of issuing a mobile   starts with the Aadhaar number,” said an executive at a Vodafone store at Pataudi Chowk in old Gurugram.
 
 A reality check by TOI has revealed that almost all stores in the city insist that customers provide their Aadhaar number. “We don’t give a new connection if you don’t have an Aadhaar card,” said the store manager at the Jio outlet in DLF 1. 
 
 TOI visited nine stores in different areas of Gurugram: three of Airtel, two of Vodafone, two of Jio stores and various other mobile retailers. 
 
 Of these, seven stores directly refused to issue a SIM without an Aadhaar card.
 
 The Supreme Court on March 14 issued an interim order indefinitely extending the deadline for linking Aadhaar to bank accounts, mobile phone numbers, passports and other services until a judgment was pronounced on the constitutionality of the unique identification programme.
 
 Following this, the government had directed telecom companies to accept alternative documents to provide new connections. Customers can now submit any government-approved document such as driving license, passport, voter’s id, PAN card etc to proure a mobile SIM. 
 
 However, staff at seven of the stores TOI visited did not have the authority to issue a new SIM without an Aadhaar card. “Nobody will give you a new connection without an Aadhaar card,” emphasised a staffer at the Jio store in Sector 12.
 
 On the other hand, staff at the Airtel office in the Galleria market said, “You can get a SIM without an Aadhaar card but it will take 24 hours for the number to get activated as the verification process has to be done manually.”
 
 Similarly, staff at another store in DLF 1 said, “You can get a new mobile phone connection by submitting any address proof.” But many customers are unaware about the court clarification and continue using their Aadhaar card to get a new connection. 
 
 “I was told that if I provide my Aadhaar card, the activation of the new number will be done within an hour. But this is in violation of the rules laid down by the government,” said Amit Sond, a resident of Sector 47. The store managers should inform customers about the rules and give them the choice of providing whichever document they wished to, he added.
 
 Officials with mobile phone companies said they have issued the new directions to the stores but it would take some time to implement the same. When contacted, a Jio official said, “We have sent memos to the stores but it will take some time to reach out to all of them.”
 
 A Vodafone spokesperson said, “Our service is being ramped up and we will soon reach out to the Vodafone mini stores as well as prominent multi brand outlets across the city.” 
 
 “ Aadhaar based e-KYC and activation is instant while regular paper based e-KYC takes 3-4 working days,” said an Airtel spokesperson. “We have advised all stores to follow the government guidelines.”
 
 
