AGRA: Fresh spell of violence kept   on the edge for the second day on Saturday. Five buses, two cars and five shops were torched and a place of worship along with a farmhouse owned by a local resident was vandalised soon after  , the youth who was shot dead while two others were injured during violence on R-Day.

 A total of 49 people were arrested for clashes that broke out between two communities during the ‘Tiranga Yatra’ taken out by some local youths from right-wing organisations on Friday morning in Kasganj city. Stones were allegedly pelted on members taking part in the procession following which shots were also fired at the youths who allegedly raised inflammatory slogans targeting another community. 
 
 Companies of RAF, PAC along with heavy police force have been deployed in the area to maintain law and order while the city limits have been cordoned off the police. Curfew has been clamped in the city. Large-scale violence on Saturday prompted authorities to shut school and colleges in the area as a precautionary measure.
 
 Home secretary Arvind Kumar said, “Five companies of PAC and two of RAF along with additional police officers and force have been roped in from other districts of Agra zone.”
 
 “At least three shops in Ghantaghar area were set on fire, while five buses were vandalised in Nadraigate area on   highway. A private farmhouse was vandalised in Gangeshwar colony after which police rushed to control the situation,” said a resident.
 
 “Police force has been deployed to maintain law and order in Kasganj city. Stringent action will be taken against those who are engaged in violence and damaging private properties. The situation is under control,” district magistrate RP Singh said.
 
 Additional director general (law and order) Anand Kumar said, “A total of 40 men were arrested for violating prohibitory orders in the district on Saturday.”
 
 Firebrand Hindutva leader Sadhvi Prachi was stopped in Hathras from visiting Kasganj on Saturday, following which she sat on a dharna. 
 
 Meanwhile, Kasganj police claimed that two FIRs have been lodged in Kotwali police station against 26 men, nine of them named in the FIR.
 
 One FIR was filed by inspector Ripudaman Singh, Kotwali SHO, against six named persons for rioting, attempt to murder, breach of peace and other charges. Another FIR was filed by the deceased Chandan Gupta's father Sunil Gupta against 20 men, three of them named, for murder, rioting, breach of peace, sedition and other serious charges.
 
 BJP MP Rajveer Singh who attended Gupta’s cremation persuaded the victim's family to cremate the body. The family had initially refused to cremate Gupta’s body demanding arrest of all the accused.
 
 Speaking with TOI, Singh said, “I urged the family to talk to chief minister   over the phone, and after his assurance, they agreed to cremate Chandan. The state government will pay Rs 5 lakh as compensation to the family."
 
 Singh said, "Friday's attack was a planned assault on the youths who were taking out 'Tiranga Yatra' on two-wheelers. The youths were attacked with acid bottles, stones were pelted and shots were fired on them. Every year, scores of youths in Kasganj city take out the rally on the occasion of Republic Day, but this time they were stopped and attacked.”
 
 Meanwhile, a footage accessed by TOI showed youths, prior to the clashes, holding national flags in Kasganj and shouting slogans, “Hindustan mein rahna hoga, toh   kahna hoga (if you have to live in India, you have to chant Vande Mataram).”
 
 
