KOCHI: The state government took over an 'unregistered institution housing children illegally' in Aluva. The children at   (JSSB) - a boys' and girls' home - and its buildings were placed under the   district collector amid high drama on Sunday. 

 
 The children have been placed under the collector for three months or till they are reunited with family or moved to an institution, whichever is earlier. Soon after the revenue department took over the place, officials of the social justice department have been placed at the home that houses 83 children - 47 at the girls' home in Aluva settlement bus stop and 36 at boys' home in Mekkad in Aluva.
 
 Social justice department secretary Biju Prabhakar issued the order on May 19 to take over the orphanage based on a report submitted by the   ( ) that alleged that the institute had a history of violations of the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, especially in lodging children from six states in the institute.
 
 "The collector will make necessary arrangements for education, clothes, food, etc. and post necessary staff to look after the children so that their best interests are protected," the government order said. Also, the CWC and the district child protection officer (DCPO), Ernakulam, have been asked to submit bi-weekly report on the repatriation and welfare of the children to the district collector. On April 15, 2017, Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights had directed Ernakulam CWC to submit a report on the alleged illegal detention of children from other states at the institute.
 
 The CWC identified violations in the functioning of the orphanage and issued orders on May 15, 2017 for rehabilitation and repatriation of the children from other states.
 
 But the orphanage general secretary approached the high court asking to quash CWC order. But HC court dismissed it and asked him to approach Ernakulam additional sessions court. Sessions court also dismissed his appeal and asked to repatriate children. There were many allegations against the institute. While CWC during its inspection found 104 children in the orphanage, DCPO found only 42. Later, four inmates, who were missing were found begging in Thrissur.
 
 It was also alleged by CWC that the institute authorities used the children's photographs in the brochure and newspapers for fund collection. Also, the children were taken to streets for processions. All this in violation of section 74 of JJ Act.
 
  "JSSB was housing the children who have family and parents to look after, which is against the principles of JJ Act that institutional care should be the last resort," the government order said.
 
 Ernakulam CWC had also informed the government that they need time to know the whereabouts of the families of the children from Kerala and other states. The orphanage houses both major and minor inmates apart from a few elderly women.
 
