CHENNAI: First they came for Classes XI and XII, and no one spoke out. After targeting students down the grades, now they’ve come for Class V.

 Coaching centres for IITJEE and NEET have made such an impression on ambitious parents that they are now herding 10-year-olds to smart classrooms to teach them thermodynamics, fluid mechanics and calculus. Schools are only eager to tie up with these centres to catch them young.
 
 The father of a Class VI student of Velammal School, Ambattur, said the school had asked him sign up his son, but he refused. “It’s too early for this kind of training,” he said. Many others felt competition is a compelling reason and pushed their children into the module.
 
  in Chennai has compulsory modules for Classes V, VI and VII for at least two hours a week.
 
 It has tied up with private coaching institute TIME for integrated training sessions for Class VIII, which is optional.
 
 “Our higher secondary school teachers were looped in to chalk out a training module for Classes V to VII, and to work within the curriculum. We also have a mock examination every month for JEE/NEET,” said B Purushothaman, principal and correspondent.
 
 The schools believe earlier the better, and that it would help conceptual thinking than rote learning. “Instead of doing ‘match the following’, ‘fill in the blanks’ or essays, this is a new kind of learning for them,” said a school representative.
 
 Not all parents seem to agree. “Aren’t children in middle school meant to be doing ‘match the following’? It’s absurd they have to be worried about competitive training,” said Arun K, a parent.
 
 
 
 
 Private coaching centres say schools want them more than they want the schools. Winners’ Academy founder   said many schools had been requesting them to train students from Class V even though the academy offered coaching only from Class IX. “Many schools have tied up with multiple institutes,” he said.
 
 Psychologist   said it wouldn’t do young students much good. “Children should first be taught life skills. When pushed into such a training regime, qualities like team work take a back seat. This kind of high attention to maths and science also makes students think these are the only important subjects and closes other opportunities for them,” she said.
 
 She said she had dealt with families where not just parents, but children too wanted early training because of peer pressure.
 
