NEW DELHI: Bharti   and   have decided to merge in a deal that will create a $14.6-billion company with the world’s second-largest number of mobile towers. The merged entity will have over 163,000 towers across the country, behind only China Tower.

 
  and Vodafone will jointly control the combined firm, the two companies said in a statement. Indus Towers currently operates in 15 telecom service areas, or circles, while Bharti Infratel’s operations are focused on the remaining seven circles.
 
 “The combination of   and Indus Towers, with their highly complementary footprints, will create a pan-India tower company with the ability to offer high-quality passive infrastructure services to all operators on a non-discriminatory basis, needed to support the pan-India expansion of wireless broadband services using 4G/4G+/5G technologies,” a statement said.
 
 Taken together, Bharti Infratel and Indus Towers had over 367,000 tenancies as on March 31, 2018, the statement added.
 
 With over Rs 25,360 crore revenue in 2017-18, the combined company will be well placed to invest on a national basis to meet future demand from all telecom operators in India as they continue to widen their networks to support sustained data traffic growth and roll out new network technologies, it said. Operational synergies include benefits of scale for capex, simplification of the organisational structure and cost efficiencies.
 
 The transaction is subject to regulatory and other approvals, and is expected to close before the end of the current financial year. “Indus Towers will be merged with and into Bharti Infratel through a scheme of arrangement,” Bharti said in a statement. The merged entity, which will be called Indus Towers, will remain listed.
 
 Bharti Airtel, which currently owns 53.5% in Bharti Infratel, will get 33.8-37.2% stake in the combined entity. Its shareholding is dependent upon what Aditya Birla Group’s Idea and Providence do with their minority shareholding in Indus Towers. Vodafone India will get between 26.7% and 29.4% of the Indus-Bharti Infratel combine. Vodafone has 42% stake in Indus Towers. Bharti Infratel too has an equivalent stake, while the remaining is with Idea (11.2%) and Providence (4.9%).
 
