Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) at its general body meeting on Saturday ordered an inquiry into the alleged irregularities in procurement of ticketing machines for city buses. The probe will also cover ticketing money siphoned off by 35 conductors, leading to a hefty financial loss to the new city bus service — Aapli Bus. TOI was first to highlight the alleged irregularities in ticketing money on January 1 followed by a goof-up in procurement of ticketing machines on January 3. The city transport department issued work order for procurement of 1,300 ticketing machines at Rs2.12 crore. Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi said the additional municipal commissioner will conduct the inquiry and fix the responsibility on officials concerned followed by necessary action. “The inquiry report will be tabled in the next general body meeting,” he said. Earlier, leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve and other Congress corporators, including Bunty Shelke, Nitin Satawne and Kamlesh Chaudhary, alleged irregularities in procurement of ticketing machines and demanded action against the agencies and officials involved into it, leading to financial losses to new city bus service- Aapli Bus.  BJP corporators Pravin Bhisikar and Balya Borkar supported the Congress corporators. “The Chinese company was the lowest bidder but the work order was issued to a US-based company without approval from the city transport and the standing committees,” corporators said. Meanwhile, the general body meeting witnessed an unprecedented development on Saturday during the house proceedings when over 50 ASHA workers, allegedly on the behest of Bunty Shelke, stormed into the Town Hall, Mahal, demanding increase in daily wages from Rs2,250 to Rs18,000 per month. The situation reached to such a pass that mayor Nanda Jichkar had to stop the house proceedings and announce it sine die, keeping about eight proposals, including change of playground’s reservation to residential at Friends Colony, pending. Joshi said it was very unfortunate that Shelke, who himself is a member of the house, encouraged agitators to enter the house. “I will ask civic chief to initiate suitable action against Shelke as per provisions in the Act.” Shelke said he did nothing wrong as issue was very serious because no one was paying heed to their long-pending demands. “The NMC general body ruled by BJP do not take decisions related to welfare of citizens and city. Interest of private companies, contractors etc are safeguarded here,” he alleged. Later, Jichkar, Joshi and others met agitating women and assured them to look into their demands. Secretary of ASHA workers association Priti Meshram said the ASHA workers visit about 200 houses daily and ensure the smooth conduct of the pulse polio drive. “We are paid only Rs75 per day. We are around 3,000 workers and also works for various health schemes of the NMC. Rate of maternal deaths and stillbirths reduced down due to our efforts. But no one has been listening to our demand for the last many years,” she said.