CHENNAI: Airports Economic Regulatory Authority ( ) which is in charge of fixing user fee and other tariff is of the view that   (UDF) levied on international travellers may be reduced, as   on the ground floor of international terminal is yet to be opened at  .

 After the new domestic and international terminals were commissioned, Aera fixed a user fee of around Rs 600 for international travellers and around Rs160 for domestic travellers to recover the Rs 2,000 crore investment that went into the making of the facility.   has been collecting the money from passengers since then.
 
 The suggestion has come after   filed for revision or renewal of user fee and passenger service fee charged from travellers for the next five years. Aera reviews airport tariff every five years. The charges will be reduced if there was no fresh investment at the airport and will be increased if there is investment for adding facilities at the airport. During a recent inspection, Aera officials found out that around 40% of the steel and glass terminal is not used but its construction cost is also weaved into the user fee.
 
 Sources said that the officials have suggested scaling down the user fee if the terminal could not be opened any sooner. The cost of the international terminal is also included to assess the user development fee charged from passengers.
 
 During an inspection in November to review the commercial potential of the terminals, Aera officials had pulled up AAI for the undue delay in commissioning the arrival hall. “They felt that there is no point in going for additional facilities like building an integrated terminal when the existing building is not fully used,” he added.
 
 Aera is planning to hold a stakeholders’ meet next month to decide the revision of user fee. AAI made several attempts to open the arrival hall of the international terminal. The first deadline fixed for end of 2017 could not be met. It was postponed to March. But that too is not likely. A senior official of AAI said, “We are trying to open the terminal. Discussions are on with the stakeholders. It can be opened in six months.” However, airlines, immigration and customs are not in favour of the move. The problem that prevents commissioning of the terminal stems from the time it was designed. In spite of repeated requests, AAI's construction wing refused to show airlines the blue print of the terminal. Their feedback was also not taken when the building was designed. The result, AAI built a terminal which is not suitable for use.
 
 
