PATNA: Chief Minister  , along with senior state government officials will visit to Japan on February 19. The CM will hold deliberations with Japanese government and investors in Japan over investments in various sectors in Bihar, including means of mass rapid transport such as metro rail, in the state.

 Chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh told TOI on Friday that Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) has already shown interest in extending financial assistance to proposed metro rail project in Patna.
 
 The 10-member delegation, including chief secretary Singh, principal secretary to CM Chanchal Kumar, secretary to CM Atish Chandra and road construction secretary Amrit Lal Meena among others will visit Tokyo and a few other cities in Japan during their four-day tour. 
 
 A list of the delegation members has recently been sent by chief minister’s office to Ministry of External Affairs for final approval. Nitish was recently invited by Japanese government to hold talks on various matters of cooperation in development works. 
 
 “We will hold talks with Japanese government and investors on opportunities in various sectors in Bihar, including transport, tourism, road construction, information technology and food processing, among others. A detailed presentation will be made by our officials, followed by keynote speech by the CM,” Singh said.
 
 The chief secretary said talks would also be held on metro rail in Patna and similar modes of transport in the Buddhist circuit.
 
 Japanese government has already extended financial assistance to a couple of ongoing road construction projects in Bihar, primarily in the Buddhist circuit comprising Bodh Gaya and Nalanda.
 
 JICA — a governmental agency that coordinates official development assistance for the government of Japan, has extended funds to two phases of its Bihar National Highway Improvement Project. Under the first phase, JICA sanctioned 22,903 million Japanese yen, which is equivalent to around Rs1,350 crore, in February 2013 to upgrade National Highway 83 connecting Patna-Punpun-Masaurhi-Jehanabad-Gaya-Dobhi.
 
 In the second phase of the Bihar highway improvement project, JICA again approved Rs1,267 crore in January 2014 to upgrade NH-82 connecting Gaya to Biharsharif covering 92.93km.
 
 Earlier, consul-general of Japan Masayuki Taga, who had called on chief minister Nitish Kumar, said his country was interested in investing in Bihar. Taga also told the CM that places like Bodh Gaya, Rajgir, Nalanda and Pawapuri draw avid interest among tourists from Japan.
 
 Japanese economic, trade and industries minister Yosuke Takago had also meet Nitish in July last year and shown interest in cooperating and investing in food processing and tourism in view of their huge growth potential. Takago had also requested Bihar government to commence direct flight from Tokyo to Bodh Gaya.
 
 
