MUMBAI: A 24-year-old was convicted on Friday and sentenced to one year in jail for stalking his 16-year-old neighbour and threatening to throw   on the minor and kill her parents when she objected to his advances.

 A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act court found him guilty of stalking, sexual harassment through sexually-coloured remarks, and criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code, and under section 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Pocso Act.
 
 The victim, a student of a   college, was stalked by the accused for a year before the family complained to the cops in 2015.
 
 Deposing in court, the girl said she was in class XII in 2014 when the harassment began. The accused used to follow her when she went to college. He used to pass comments and one day said: “Darling, sweetheart, I love you”. After that he kept saying, “Tu mujhe haan kar (you accept my proposal)”.
 
  
  
 When she warned him that she would tell her parents, he threatened to kill her and her parents. The girl said he even left a mobile phone on her doorstep after finding out that she did not have one. At this point, she informed her parents about the harassment, who in turn complained to the man’s sister and brother-in-law. The sister told her parents to forgive the accused and assured them that he would stop the harassment.
 
 The girl recalled that in 2015, the accused kept following her on a bike when she travelled to her college by bus. He kept passing comments, telling her that he loved her and addressed her as sweetheart and darling, embarrassing her. On August 28, he chased her, pulled her burkha, and held her hand. She said she was ashamed after the burkha tore and she ran into her college. On her return home, she told her parents, who filed an FIR against the accused on August 30, 2015.
 
 During cross examination by the defence, she denied suggestions that she was in love with the accused and that when her parents found out about their affair, she was forced to lodge a false complaint against him. Her cousin, who had told her family that she was being sexually harassed, too deposed in court against the accused. 
 
