NEW DELHI: Hours before the   collegium met on Wednesday to reconsider the elevation of   Chief Justice K M   to the apex court, law minister   asserted that the government had the right to send back any proposal of the collegium for reconsideration. 

 
 Prasad denied “insinuations” that the government was acting under influence and reiterated that its decision to send back Justice Joseph’s proposal for appointment to SC had nothing to do with the latter’s judgement overturning President’s rule in the state. He cited SC judgements of 1993, 1998 and 2015 relating to the collegium system to assert that these very apex court orders have given the government the right to seek a reconsideration of the proposals made by the collegium.
 
 Prasad said there are two “obvious reasons” to support his stand that the government was not acting under any influence in this case. “A proper government with 3/4th majority has been elected in Uttarakhand. Second, the order (of Justice Joseph to overturn President’s rule) was confirmed by Justice J S Khehar of the SC, who had also set aside the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) Act, yet he became the CJI during the NDA government... I deny these insinuations,” the minister said. 
 
 He said that “sponsored allegations” are being levelled against the government by “   party in particular and others in general” that Joseph’s appointment was stalled due to his Uttarakhand President’s rule verdict. “I wish to deny with all authority at my command. It has nothing to do with that at all,” he told reporters. 
 
 Justice Khehar headed a five-judge bench which had struck down the NJAC Act in October 2015 restoring the collegium system of appointing judges to the higher judiciary. Khehar later went on to become the CJI. In the NJAC Act, the law minister was one of the members in the panel for appointment of judges. The meeting of the collegium on Wednesday deferred its decision on reconsideration of Justice Joseph’s elevation. The agenda of the collegium also included consideration of names of judges from Calcutta, Rajasthan and Telangana & Andhra Pradesh HCs for elevation as judges of the SC “in view of the concept of fair representation”.
 
