Jalandhar: BJP’s alliance partner in the Centre and the state, Shiromani Akali Dal has now alleged that the Indian intelligence agencies had hatched a conspiracy to ruin Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s visit to India. The party has also accused the BJP and the Congress of playing a part in this.

 SAD Delhi unit chief Manjit Singh G K, who is also president of the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee, minced no words in flaying the Centre for the treatment meted out to  . He said there were attempts to malign the image of Sikhs.
 
 “While one hand our Prime Minister can go to Pakistan uninvited despite the hostilities on the border or welcome Chinese president with great warmth despite its adversities, Canadian PM was cold shouldered even as Canada has done nothing against India,” he said in a statement issued on Monday.
 
 “Sikhs could never imagine that the PM of a country which provided them opportunities of employment and growth would be treated so badly by the Indian government,” he said.
 
 He said the DSGMC was writing to the Union ministries of external affairs, home affairs and information and broadcasting to register their protest against the way Trudeau was cold shouldered and brazen attempts were made to embarrass him.
 
 Giving details of sequence of visits by Jaspal Atwal and his posts from his Facebok account, G K pointed out Atwal had even posted a picture with a BJP national spokesperson, who is also holding important official positions in the central government bodies, as a guest on Media Waves radio talk show.
 
 He said there was a strong suspicion that the Indian intelligence/security agencies had hatched a conspiracy to sabotage Trudeau’s visit to India so that he could be branded a Khalistan supporter and some section of the media also played a role in it.
 
 “Sikhs are being terrorized and branded as extremists and terrorists,” he said, adding that Pandey brothers, who had hijacked a plane in late 1970s to secure former PM Indira Gandhi’s release from jail, were made ministers by the Congress. It started branding Sikhs as terrorists and a Sikh hijacker was shot point blank even after he surrendered at the Amritsar airport after hijacking a plane with a toy pistol, alleged G K.
 
 He said on one hand Punjab CM Amarinder Singh was keen to get people extradited from Canada labeling them terrorists, he had, on the other hand, given a clean chit to Congress leaders like Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler. “What should these Congress leaders be called,” he asked.
 
 He said Amarinder had exposed himself more by misquoting Trudeau on Quebec while referring to a report by TOI on Sunday.
 
 
