SURAT: A  , who lived in Unna Patiya, was found dead on railway tracks near   even as their four-month-old daughter reportedly went missing here on Thursday morning. Relatives claimed that the deceased man was a witness in a murder case and had been called to Sachin GIDC police station several times in the past few days. 

 Bodies of labourer Deepu Nathu Prajapati (30) and his wife Asha (28) were found on the railway tracks near Udhna railway station at around 2.30am. The train driver alerted railway officials and police on noticing the bodies that were mutilated. Police are yet to register statement of the train driver and also find out how the couple had died. 
 
 “It is yet not clear how the deceased died. It was found in preliminary postmortem that the deceased had died due to serious head injury,” the police said.
 
 The four-month-old daughter of the couple was not found at the spot for which the police carried out a thorough search. 
 
 Deepu lived on first floor of a building owned by Amar Prasad, who stayed with his family on its third floor. Prasad had rented out many rooms in the building to people. Prasad’s wife Shantidevi was smothered to death on January 30. Deepu was questioned by the police since he stayed in the building and had been called a couple of times to Sachin GIDC police station in connection with the investigation of the 45-year-old woman’s murder.
 
 “Deepu had done tile fitting work in Prasad’s house recently and thus police were questioning him on certain things,” a police officer said.
 
 The deceased couple were identified by the police from the identity cards found on them. Police contacted Deepu’s family and informed some local persons too. Police recovered a bag of clothes, which made them suspect that the couple was going to their native place. However, it still remains a mystery how they died. Asha was wearing jewellery, the police informed.
 
 Deepu was a native of Madhya Pradesh. His family members have left for the city from their hometown.
 
 “We are investigating how the deceased had died. We are also searching for the couple’s daughter,” in-charge police inspector, Surat railway police station, M R Malek said.
 
 
