HOSHIARPUR: A major banking scam is all set to hit   with a large number of people approaching the  , alleging that a village-level financier had taken loans running into crores from the local   branch in their name. 

 The villagers have alleged that they had approached the financier for loans of a few thousand rupees, but he convinced them to take gold loans from the bank. He then kept a majority of the loan money with himself and gave them small amounts. To make matters worse, they were paying back principal and interest on the small amount of loans to the financier and not the bank. 
 
 But bank officials are now demanding the entire loan back from the villagers. According to one estimate, about 200 people are believed to have been duped in this manner.
 
 Shockingly, the villagers have alleged that the financier arranged for the gold to be used as collateral and that the precious metal given to the bank may be substandard. The borrowers, most of them from poor families, have submitted a complaint to Hoshiarpur SSP J  , who has started an inquiry into the case.   regional manager S K   and branch manager   did not take numerous calls made by TOI and also did not reply to SMSs.
 
 
 
 However, the bank’s Dasuya-based chief manager Dev Raj confirmed that he had submitted a report to his seniors after conducting an internal inquiry. He refused to give any further details.
 
 Activist Jai Gopal Dhiman, who has been helping the borrowers, said that he met the branch manager on Tuesday along with some of the borrowers. He has now decided to write to RBI for a detailed inquiry. RTI Awareness Forum’s founder-chairman Rajiv Vashisht claimed that the bank was facing losses running into crores.
 
 “The bank authorities need to delve deep into the modus operandi and fix responsibility as it has become clear that substandard gold was hypothecated with the bank in over 200 cases,” he said.
 
 Among the borrowers is Kapil Dev, a resident of Nainowal village in Hoshiarpur, who revealed that he had approached the financier based in Fatehpur village for Rs 10,000. “The financier said that
 
 he would facilitate a gold loan from SBI’s Bullowal branch,” he said. “I told him I did not have gold, but he said he would arrange it on his own. He took me and my wife to the branch and made us to sign papers for opening an account. Then he gave us Rs 10,000 and said we would have to pay 5% interest every month.”
 
 He claims that three days ago, bank officials reached his home and told him that he owed the bank Rs 7 lakh. The financier recently visited Kapil and asked for an affidavit stating that he had no role in the loan, which Kapil refused.
 
 Village Bignowal resident Devinder Singh also narrated a similar story. He needed around Rs 35,000 and had approached the same financier. “He used my Aadhaar card and photographs to open an account. Later, the financier said the bank had sanctioned a loan of Rs 40,000,” he said.
 
 “I kept paying instalments and thought that my loan was cleared but now bank officials have told me that I owe them over Rs 4 lakh,” he added. Devinder is a marginal farmer. He and his two brothers own just one acre of land.
 
 
