When you think of  , the first thing that comes to your mind is the romantic hero image. However, the lover-boy is doing a 360 degree turn in the upcoming film Ranangan, directed by Rakesh Sarang. For the first time in his career, Swwapnil will be seen playing a role with grey shades. In an interaction with us earlier, the actor had spoken about being interested in doing negative roles and perhaps this is the beginning of a new path for him. “I believe in having different types of arrows in my quiver,” he says, adding, “This was a conscious decision on my part because I wanted to explore this role. However, I won’t call my character in   completely negative.”
Shlok, the actor’s character in the film, is said to have various hues; it’s not completely black or white. “  is not a Mogambo or Gabbar kind of a villain. He is twisted in his head. His approach to situations is abnormal and there is a sense of eeriness about him. I would call him a lovable rascal with a twisted mind,” says Swwapnil.
 The film, which releases in May, will also see Swwapnil reuniting with Sachin Pilgaonkar after a long time. Ask him how the experience of working with the veteran actor was and he replies, “It was extremely challenging as well as satisfying. Sachin ji plays a very important role in the film.” It is said that Sachin and Swwapnil’s characters are pitted against each other in the film.
 Generally, while enacting a role, Swwapnil refers a similar incident in his life and what his reaction would be. “For this role though, I had zero reference points. I consider myself an under-confident actor and to add to that, I was doing a role and film that was completely out of my zone. So I was a bit tense about the result,” he informs. But the first time he saw himself in the look, the tension went away. “I was afraid when I saw myself in that getup for the first time. I think that changed a lot of things,” says Swwapnil. Interestingly, this was not the only look that the team had in mind. “We had tried different looks, including a bald one, semi-bald and one where I had a goatee. The whole point was to come across as menacing, but relatable and I think our look designer   achieved that with this one,” informs Swwapnil.
 Keeping the look secret throughout the shoot was quite a task but the team managed to pull through. Spilling the beans on how they did it, Swwapnil shares, “I think people are used to seeing me in urban characters and this was totally different. I remember we were shooting outdoor in Pune and me and Sachin ji had bouncers accompanying us everywhere. But for a particular shot, Sachin ji suggested the crew to let me walk without security. Surprisingly, no one identified e on the streets. Even on social media, you might find pics of people with Sachin ji but not me, because I unrecognisable to them. So in a way, though it was difficult to keep it secret, the look itself helped in keeping my character in disguise.”
 
 
