KOLKATA:   (CISCE) recently sent a   to affiliated schools intimating that any institute which fails to send the required number of   will lose the opportunity to be  . The council had earlier instructed schools to compulsorily nominate the required number of examiners which many schools refused.

 “The shortage of examiners on several occasions prompted the council to take the matter up with concern this year,” said a principal, adding, “Schools which had diligently nominated examiners felt pressurized.”
 
 Presently, each school enters the number of nominees and their qualifications on a portal set up by the council. Thereafter, the council selects the examiners.
 
 Also, schools which nominated examiners were often sent requests from the latter seeking release from the duty, which many claimed, were forcefully imposed on them. “This is a welcome move as several schools refused to let go their teachers as examiners citing inadequate faculty in their own school. Now, with penal measures being introduced, the schools will hopefully have no option but to send names,” said asource in an affiliated school.
 
 Some principals, however, believe that even now many schools will refuse to nominate examiners, one per subject, as required. “The punishment will be imposed next year. For now, let’s see if the schools follow instructions and the selected teachers turn up,” said a teacher who was examiner for a subject in   last year.
 
 With CISCE’s decision, schools will have to take note of the qualifications of teachers who would meet the requisite criteria to be examiners. Several schools appoint under-qualified teachers with less pay.
 
 Major problem occurs whenexaminers refuse to turn up and delay the publishing of results. “The teachers who agree to do the job are often saddled with huge numbers of answer scripts in absence of others,” another principal said.
 
 The council has set up a centralized assessment policy where examiners are required to visit for a mentioned duration of time to correct answer scripts and assess candidates.
 
