KOLKATA: The   has cast a   at special meetings of the civic top brass.

 
 Usually the mayor, deputy mayor and mayor-in-council members go for a spread of nonvegetarian dishes, especially that of  , during mayor-in-council meetings. But on Friday, most MMiCs and mayor Sovan Chatterjee opted for a strict vegetarian fare. The civic bosses could not seem to trust even reputable restaurants, which usually supplied delicacies to the Kolkata Municipal Corporation headquarters, owing to the scare about the quality of meat being sold after the carcass scam came to the fore.
 
 As food packets from a popular restaurant were served during Friday’s MiC meeting,   took a peek into a veg sandwich but set it aside, suspecting some chicken pieces in it. Following in his footsteps, a couple of MMiCs, too, decided not to touch the sandwich. But veteran MMiC Ram Pyare Ram took a bite after carefully studying the sandwich and its content. A few other followed suit. But most others—MMiCs and senior officials—chose the “safe option” of having veg-fried rice and chilli paneer. MMiC Atin Ghosh, who had just finished a raid on eateries at Alipore and Kidderpore, did not even touch the food packet. He had lassi instead. A KMC official conceded such a scare among the civic officials was unprecedented.
 
 During the inspection on eateries at Alipore and Kidderpore, Ghosh and his team collected 15 meat samples and destroyed large quantities for being either stale or the presence of spurious food colour in them. Food inspectors also collected samples from a restaurant inside Alipore zoo.
 
 But questions are being raised on the manner the Kolkata and Howrah municipal corporations have been conducting their drives against contaminated meat and destroying chicken and fish from restaurants on suspicion of being stale. The seized meats were sent to the Belgachia dumping ground. Howrah mayor Rathin Chakraborty claimed that the civic body had no space to keep those samples and so, had to destroy the entire amounts.
 
 Chakraborty also pointed out that they would install CCTV cameras at the dumping ground and tighten security there.
 
 
