CHANDIGARH: Coming to rescue of Chandigarh residents, the chairman of   (JERC) on Tuesday expressed displeasure over wide variation in fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) charges being levied and assured the consumers that the commission would review the same. 

 The charge is the difference between per unit actual cost of power purchase and per unit approved cost of power purchase. The FPPCA is a charge added on a per-unit basis to each power bill over and above the regular tariff. The UT electricity department bi-monthly generates bills for domestic customers.
 
  The charges are revised after every quarter. For the current quarter, the Chandigarh electricity department had increased the charges between 80 paisa per unit to Rs 3.89 per unit in different categories earlier this month.
 
 During the public hearing session, residents accused the department of earning revenue under the garb of the charges. Major General   (retd) said FPPCA charges were worrying consumer as there was wide variation in the amount charged from the consumers. "It ranges from around 11 paisa per unit and goes up to Rs 2 per unit. It's confusing," Kumar said, adding that the formula used to calculate charges was not clear to anyone.
 
 Talking to TOI after the hearing session, chairperson of the commission MK Goel said there could not be so wide variations in the charges. "We need to examine the current system and bring changes accordingly," said Goel. He also called for need to simplify the method used for calculating tariff to make it easy for consumers to understand.
 
 The electricity department caters to 2.25 lakh consumers divided into nine categories. Of these 1.99 lakh are domestic, which accounts to more than 87% of total consumers. Remaining 23% belongs to other categories namely commercial, small power, medium supply, large supply, bulk supply, public lighting, agriculture power and temporary supply.
 
 City-based industrialists said the FPPCA charges was further pushing the power rate higher. "An industrial unit in the city shells out around Rs 10 per unit, including other charges, whereas power in Mohali is available at around Rs 6 per unit," said  , president of   .
 
 "The high rates of power is making trade and   in Chandigarh. There is dire need to do away with the FPPCA charges," said  , a city-based industrialist.
 
 
