JALANDHAR: The extent of politicization of appointments in the eight state universities in Punjab can be gauged from the fact that during the previous SAD-BJP rule, these institutions were divided between the alliance partners for making appointments. Besides, there have been instances in the past where vice-chancellors (VCs) of state’s universities would either resign or they would be arm twisted to quit after the change of regime.

 After appointment of VCs, both SAD and BJP called shots even in other appointments. The affiliations of those named in the FIR registered by the state vigilance bureau about irregularities in Punjab Technical University (PTU) brought the ‘division’ into light. Of the seven state universities, SAD appointed VCs in four and the remaining three were nominated by BJP. “The parties held their influence accordingly,” said an academic involved in politics around educational institutes.
 
 The Akalis held the key to appointment of VCs and other key officials in Punjabi University, Patiala; Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar; Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, and Baba Farid University of Health Sciences, Faridkot. On the other hand, the BJP had their say in PTU, Kapurthala; Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and   (GADVASU), Ludhiana, and Guru Ravidass Ayurved University, Hoshiarpur.
 
 Even Maharaja Ranjit Singh Technical University, which was established in Bathinda during the previous SAD-BJP regime, was considered to be in Akali quota. Initially, BJP leaders had built pressure against its establishment but then they yielded to the will of the then chief minister, Parkash Singh Badal. The BJP also reacted after there was a move to discontinue human values course in May, 2017, in PTU and an inquiry was ordered. The course was started during Rajneesh Arora’s tenure as VC and there was perception that it was part of ‘saffronization’ programme.
 
 Punjab BJP president and Union minister   had issued a statement asking chief minister   to stop “Congressization” of the education system. He even went on to allege that corrupt elements were being encouraged and batted for RSS and BJP volunteers working in educational institutions, stating that, “Efforts are being made to harass BJP and Sangh volunteers working in the educational institutions, which will not be tolerated in any condition.”
 
 The name of the RSS came up explicitly for the first time in an official order of the PTU on May 26, 2017, which mentioned, “From the complaints received by an inquiry officer, it has come to light that there was RSS propaganda in workshops on human values organized in different colleges.”
 
 
