NAGPUR: Pre-empting any possible move by human rights activists to tag the Kasnasur Naxalite encounter as ‘fake’, an association of police widows said the incident was in fact a perfect tribute to their martyred spouses. “By replying to the enemy (Naxalites) in the language they understand, our C-60 commandos have honoured every policeman who has been martyred till date,” said Hemlata Wagade who lost her husband in a Naxalite attack in 2005.

 Speaking under the banner of Janaki Shahid Police Pariwar Sanstha (JSPPS), Wagade questioned the intentions of human rights activists whenever such incidents happened. “Are human rights only for Naxalites? And whenever policemen are killed nobody goes and fights for their rights? When my husband was killed, not a single activist came to meet me,” said Alka Nandire whose husband too was killed in 2005. 
 
 The presence of a Bhumkal member, an organization fighting Naxalite ideology, at the press conference venue set off speculation that both organizations were coordinating with each other to gain an upper hand against human rights activists’ media communication strategy. Some people even reported seeing a staff member from Anti-Naxalite Operations (ANO) at the venue. 
 
 The Bhumkal member clarified to the media that his only role was to facilitate booking of the venue for the press conference as the JSPPS members were not locals. “The confusion started because the venue was booked in Bhumkal’s name though we have absolutely no role to play in this,” he said.
 
 “We have come on our own and have been doing media interactions for the last couple of years,” said Renu Bandewar who lost her son in 2010. “We have held press conferences earlier too, so don’t need prompting by anyone. We have protested at MLA hostel against Naxalite ideologue Saibaba and I was arrested by Nagpur police for it, so this is not new for us,” she added.
 
 Another JSPPS member told TOI that all logistical arrangements for their trip to Nagpur have been self arranged as their organization is financially independent. “Former Gadchiroli SP   helped us to register this organization and also gave us construction contracts related to police stations. We have been awarded tenders to construct walls, toilets etc at police stations and because of this we do not have to seek financial help from anyone,” added Bandewar, whose younger son too joined the police department post his brother’s death. 
 
 While some members of JSPPS talked about the need for Naxalites to surrender and join the mainstream, they still underlined their strong belief of a zero-tolerance policy. Wagade, who is also president of JSPPS, said, “We are not living in Gandhiji’s time where someone slaps us on one cheek and we offer the other one too. Police have to show that they too are ready to give a response. But yes, the ultimate aim is to bring them into the mainstream through surrender policy.” 
 
 Teenager Vicky Pradhan, who lost his father when he was still a toddler, agreed saying “Naxals need to be finished off else the problem in Gadchiroli will never end. Tribals are being brainwashed to join”. 
 
 A soft-spoken Nandire summed up by saying, “This violence is a vicious cycle and in the end we are fighting our own people. We want Naxalites to see the pain they caused us by killing our husbands and sons and bring an end to all of this. Just last week, my son appeared for an exam in which he had to write a letter to his father. The poor child does not even remember his father and he put his bade papa’s (uncle) name because that’s all he knows. No one should have to go through that, and it must end.” 
 
 
