PATIALA: A major controversy has erupted at the prestigious   (YPS), Patiala, after the school’s director allegedly meted out harsh collective punishment to all students from classes IV to IX, apparently after three sports kits were stolen recently.

 On March 5, more than 700 students of the school were made to stand in the sun for about five hours apparently after three sports kits with expensive shoes and other gear went missing. This was done on the instructions of director Major General   (retired). The kids were made to stand from around 11.30 am to around 4.30 pm.
 
  
  
 
 Punjab chief minister Captain   in the patron of the school management board. The school was originally started by Amarinder’s father   and is now managed by a trust.
 
 The angry parents are saying that not only is corporal punishment of this nature illegal, it is unfair to mete out collective punishment to all students for the acts of a few. They told TOI that the children returned and complained of body pain. Some students even fainted during the day. No one, not even the teachers, came forward to help them, the parents allege. The parents
 
 Surprisingly, when TOI spoke to the parents, they said their children were not even told what was stolen. They have shot off signed letters to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh along with child protection groups and the ICSE Board seeking guidelines on the issue.
 
 Verma had on March 5 lined up the students and made them stand in the school stadium for the entire day with strictures that they should all be facing the sun. The parents allege that while the school gets over at 3:40 pm, their wards did not return home till 4:30 pm causing widespread panic and chaos among them.
 
 In the letter, the parents have requested Amarinder to intervene in the matter and ensure that such reprimands are banned on the school premises. 
 
 Some parents said when they went to meet Verma, he shouted at them. Other parents alleged that the school director also threatened to suspend those kids whose parents would complain against the punishment. He also said he would offer the seats of the suspended children to those on the waiting list of admission of the school.
 
 
 
