BENGALURU: Small is big when it comes to poll outcomes in   where every vote counts as winning margins are increasingly becoming slender. Around 200-odd smaller castes that are part of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) could make a difference to parties' fortunes in several constituencies, political observers believe.

 
 The OBCs in Karnataka are a motley category of 207 castes. Among them,  , Vokkaligas and Kurubas, perceived to be the core of the  , JD(S) and   support base respectively, are large in numbers.
 
 The 'other' 200-odd OBCs, may not be individually significant in numbers and political or economic heft but together make up for a huge chunk of votes. Idigas, Nekaras, Vishwakarmas, Gollas, Upparas, Madivalas, Kumabaras, Tigalas, Savitas, Marathas, Kolis, Namdhari Reddys, Bunts and Kodavas are prominent among the less-dominant OBCs who hold the key to an electoral win.
 
  
  
 The other OBCs played a significant role in the ascendance of   as Ahinda leader. Their potential is also why the BJP government at the Centre is pushing for a bill, seeking to accord constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes, which was stalled by Congress in Rajya Sabha.
 
 In the 2008 polls, upper castes, Lingayats and 'other' OBCs had propelled BJP to office for the first time in Karnataka before Congress, in 2013, bounced back on Siddaramaiah's Ahinda credentials.
 
 "The smaller   communities have been voting differently in each assembly election and therefore it is difficult to predict their thinking,'' says N Shankaranna, a backward class leader.
 
 Idigas hold the key in several constituencies of Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga and Kalaburagi districts while Nekaras play a huge role in many constituencies of North Karnataka. Vishwakarmas, however, are thinly spread across the state, barring dense presence in pockets like Chamarajanagar and Mandya in Old Mysore region. Bunts can make a difference in some key constituencies of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. The support of Kodavas is also crucial in Virajpet and Madikeri constituencies of Kodagu district.
 
 In a triangular contest, a vote share of 35%-40% will be enough for any party to form the next government. With all three parties enjoying the support of dominant castes, the votes of the numerically smaller communities will come into play, he explains.
 
