Rajkot: The lion tracker from Jafrabad, whose testicle had to be removed to save his life after being brutally thrashed by a forester, has sought permission to end his life with family. 

 Tracker Anwar Katiyar was beaten up by forester of Nageshri round Savashi Sarla when the former stopped him from frequently bringing his guests to show them lions illegally at a rescue centre. Though doctors managed to save Katiyar’s life by removing one of his testicles, he was handed a termination letter by the department when he went to resume duty and dismissed from service on January 29. He was charged with showing indiscipline to the forester and unsatisfactory work. Katiyar was the caretaker of Jafrabad Babarkot Nursery Rescue Centre where the incident happened.
 
 Katiyar (35), then began representing against the injustice meted out to him by the forest department and requested a job on humanitarian grounds. However, all his requests to the chief minister’s office (CMO) fell on deaf ears. He told TOI, “Doctors have asked me not to do any kind of laborious work. I can’t even drive a rickshaw to support my family. I am extremely fed up now and there seems to be no option but to end life with my family.” 
 
 Katiyar has three kids — a 10-year-old daughter and two sons aged 14 and 7. His elderly parents also live with him. 
 
 “Deputy conservator of forest Sakkira Begam pressurized me to sign an apology letter. But I haven’t committed anything wrong. I was beaten and seriously injured and a police complaint was filed as per law. But they asked me why I went to police,” he alleged.
 
 Katiyar had alleged in his complaint that Sarla had a habit of bringing his guests to the rescue centre. The guests would click pictures and take videos. Katiyar protested to this as it is illegal to bring outsiders at the centre but Sarla did not listen to him. On October 1, Sarla brought his guests, but Katiyar denied them entry. Incensed, Sarla asked Katiyar to accompany him saying a senior officer had called them. He took Katiyar in his jeep to a secluded place where he and his associates thrashed him.
 
 “I am tired of all the procedures now. This is the last procedure I am doing and that is to appeal for euthanasia because I don’t want to commit suicide. I want a dignified death for me and my family,” he stated in the letter to Amreli collector.
 
 When contacted, A P Singh, chief conservator of forests, wildlife at Junagadh, passed the buck to deputy conservator of forest (administration) A C Patel. “I have asked the department to take him back on the job on humanitarian grounds. But I don’t know what decision Mr Patel (conservator of forest) has taken,” he told TOI. 
 
 A C Patel, on his side, said, “We are positive on reinstating him. But A P Singh has to take final decision. But Katiyar must give in writing that he won’t repeat his mistake.”
 
 When contacted, Amreli collector S L Amrani first said he hadn’t received Katiyar’s application but said he would talk to the DCF and try to solve his problem. However, he said later that he had a word with the forest department and Katiyar’s problem will be solved. “If Katiyar still has grievances, he can meet me directly.”
 
 
