Deepika Padukone, who has been vocal about mental health issues, was recently in Delhi to talk about it. At the event, the actress was asked about the controversies surrounding Padmaavat and this time, rather than dodging the question, she chose to make a statement.
When Deepika was asked if she ever faced a mental health situation where she felt vulnerable due to the controversies surrounding the film, she said, “Padmavati (her character in the film) has made me much stronger. Irresponsible behaviour on somebody else’s part will not drive me into  .”
 Deepika launched a study, titled How India Perceives Mental Health by her foundation TLLLF (The   Foundation) at the event. The study covered 3,556 males and females in roughly equal proportions across eight cities. Deepika’s mother   and her sister  , who is the director of TLLLF, were also present at the event.
 
  
  
 
 
 At the launch of the study, Deepika emphasised that shattering the stigmas surrounding mental health is very important. Referring to a panel discussion in which doctors spoke about stigmas attached to depression, Deepika said, “When we were talking about more celebrities coming out, there is also a misconception that depression happens to people who are successful. I want to clarify that it can happen to anybody from any field, irrespective of their socio-economic background. Depression is sometimes perceived as a luxury. People think that those who have too much time or money get into depression. I think it is very important to break that myth.”
 
  
  Ujjala Padukone
 
 
 
 When asked if social media disturbs her mental peace, she said, “No, I understand the correlation between consumption of social media and depression. And maybe it was because I have experienced depression. I have always believed that whatever is consumed, it should be consumed in moderation. If anything is consumed too much, it could have various impacts on both mental and physical health. I know people who stay on social media even during the wee hours and that is not healthy.”
 When asked if it was difficult to talk about depression, Deepika said, “Coming out wasn’t difficult at all. I went through a couple of weeks when I couldn’t understand what I was going through. It required for me to reach out to professionals. It was their intervention that made me realise what I was experiencing. And for me, that was half battle won. It was important for me to understand why do I have that feeling.Why do certain thoughts come to my mind? The day they explained that I have clinical depression, a huge weight was lifted off my shoulder.”
 
  
  
  
  Anisha Padukone
 
  
  Sanjeeva Kumar, Additional Secretary, Department of Health & Family Welfare
 
 
  
 
