GURUGRAM: The district administration has found 80% of the properties with the   “free of illegal encroachments”, contrary to the board’s claim that a majority of its properties in the city have been encroached upon.

 A district administration spokesperson said the properties were inspected by the tehsildar after instructions from acting deputy commissioner Chandra Shekhar Khare and a report sent to the district revenue officer. According to the report, garbage, hay and other trash were found at some of the sites. The “waqf board could get it cleaned” with the help of the district administration, the report said.
 
 According to Waqf members, they have received the report and will examine it. If it is found to be true, the board will take measures to clear properties and use them for prayers. “Some of these properties are in places where members of our community do not reside. So, villagers have kept their animals and fodder there,” said Jamaluddin, the estate officer of the Waqf board.
 
 On Tuesday, the state government also designated chairman of Haryana Waqf board Raheesh Khan as “minister of state”. A notification by additional chief secretary Dr RR Prasad said, “The state government has decided to provide status equal to ‘minister of state’ to chairman of Haryana Waqf Board. All expenditure involved will be borne by Haryana Waqf Board itself.”
 
 On the other hand, acting deputy commissioner Chandra Shekhar Khare and police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar held a meeting with 60-70 members of the Muslim community on Tuesday. The group raised their concerns and anxieties with the two officials who are said to have instructed them to form a representative group to come up with solutions. According to sources, the group was also asked to cut down on number of places where open prayers are held. However, Khare, denied the claim, saying thegroup was asked to ensure that there was no obstruction to traffic. 
 
 Meanwhile, Hindu outfits gave the district administration one week to enforce a ban on prayer in open areas, threatening protests across the city if their demands were not met. Alleging that those offering prayer in open areas were illegal migrants, they demanded verification of citizenship of such persons.
 
 Sanyukta Hindu Sangarsh Samiti, an umbrella organisation of different Hindu organisations, held a meeting on Tuesday. “If the administration and police fail to prevent gatherings for prayer in open areas, we will have no option but to stop the same on our own,” said Vijay Yadav of the samiti, adding that the district administration had assured them of action.
 
 
