NEW DELHI: Hearing on petitions challenging the validity of   by a five-judge   bench typified the risk judges run these days of being branded in the face of increasing pressure to agree to NGOs’ line of argument and discard the government’s stand.

 The highly polarised arguments — petitioners’ contention that Aadhaar would be a tool in government’s hand to track every activity of citizens in gross violation of the fundamental right to privacy, as against the Centre’s stand that UID was the greatest enabler to empower citizens — saw a judge taking umbrage to what he perceived as a taunt from the petitioner.
 
 Arguing before a bench of CJI Dipak Misra and Justices AK Sikri, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and  , senior advocate  , appearing for one of the petitioners, said if the   upheld Aadhaar, then it would be used 25 years later by the government to select ‘Aadhaar judges’ after tracking private details of their activities for all these years. This would not only be a gross violation of their rights but also intrusion of executive into independence of judiciary, he added.
 
 “Today, I am arguing before a panel of independent judges who are steeped in liberal values with a strong sense of constitutional freedom. But, 25 years later, the counsel appearing in my place will be disadvantaged unless we are successful in curbing the Aadhaar programme.
 
 Otherwise, future counsel may be appearing before Aadhaar judges whose lifelong details would have been tracked by the government before his appointment as a judge,” Divan said.
 
 The tag ‘Aadhaar judge’ did not go down well with the bench and Justice Chandrachud said, “I take strong exception to this remark. We are here neither to defend the government action not are we here to toe the NGOs’ line. We are committed to our conscience and the Constitution.”
 
 Hinting at the moral pressure exerted these days by counsel appearing for NGOs, Justice Chandrachud said, “We are not bound to decide cases as per personal feelings of petitioners or people. We ask questions to all sides to understand logic behind arguments.
 
 If asking questions to the petitioner (challenging Aadhaar) will earn me ‘nationalist’ tag, then I will accept it. We are here to protect national interest and Constitution. If our commitment to our conscience and the Constitution becomes the ground for criticism, we will take it.”
 
 Justice Chandrachud, as part of a nine-judge constitution bench, had written the main judgment giving fundamental right status to ‘right to privacy’ and had ruled that it was intrinsic to right to life.
 
 Though he had also expressed concern over alleged leak of personal data collected for Aadhaar, he had said it could be necessary to ensure that subsidy and foodgrains reached the targeted population. He had also underlined the need for a robust security mechanism to protect personal data given by citizens.
 
 Justice Chandrachud has been the most vocal in the fivejudge bench hearing arguments on petitions challenging the validity of Aadhaar.
 
