AHMEDABAD: It took Dalit activist Bhanu Vankar’s self-immolation to shake the government out of its apathy to land rights for Dalits.   has led some people to issue the self-immolation threat to move the government into acting on their problems. For instance, Chandrakant Parmar, of Kanodar village of Patan district, threatened self-immolation in a letter to chief minister   to protest against the government’s refusal to remove an electric pole from his house. The pole had stood in his house for two years; officials took just two days to remove it after he issued the threat.

  “The electricity company, Uttar   Vij Company Limited, had installed the electricity pole inside the compound wall of my house around two years ago. It posed a danger to me and my family,” Parmar said. “I started making representations to the electricity company but no action was taken. Later, I had also written to various local authorities, including the Patan district collector.” Parmar said the collector had ordered the removal of the pole around a year ago, but nothing was done. “So I finally decided to write to chief minister Rupani and the chief secretary on March 5,” he said. “The pole was removed from my house on March 7.” Parmar said his threat was spurred by the swift action taken by the government after Vankar’s self-immolation.
 
 Kanu Parmar, a contractor with the roads & buildings department in Mehsana, had also threatened self-immolation because he had not received the payment for his 50-odd sanitation workers for six months . His problem was solved within a week after the threat. An official of the department concerned told TOI, “He did not get the payment of around Rs 2.50 lakh for his workers because the government had not released the grant for sanitation workers.” The official said that there were around 300 sanitation contractors like him in the queue and he was in the 227th spot on the list. “But because of his threat, the grant was released and Parmar was paid first,” the official said. 
 
 Pradipsinh Jadeja, the minister of state for home, told TOI: “The government always makes all possible attempts to solve the problem of anyone who approaches the state administration.” But, he said, the process of clearing any application entails adherence to many norms and needs approvals from various departments. “The process may be lengthy but the Gujarat government is sensitive and committed to providing people with all the entitled benefits,” he said. “So, citizens should not adopt such kind of mentality.” 
 
 
