It is a fact that a majority of the parents are being left in the dark by their ‘tech-savvy’ kids. Many of them admit to being baffled at hearing infants talk about ‘download’, ‘pop-ups’, ‘icons’ or ‘password’ and in often, young children are educating their parents. At least in many cases, the fact is that these parents feel proud in boasting that their children are tech-savvy citing the kids’ handling of smart phones at ease. But, psychologists assert that extensive use of mobile phone would affect a child’s social skills in the long run. To overcome the ill-effects of children getting addicted to smartphones or any other gadgets for that matter, the indigenous games that involve team work, interaction, and leadership skills are suggested to be introduced to kids to ensure good mental and physical health. As various forms of gaming apps in smartphones are gaining ground in every household, forgotten are indigenous games played as a group enjoying the leisure moments and holidays.  Medical professionals said children tend to develop anxiety, frustration, and negativity when completely glued to gadgets in free time. "Taking away the mobile phone from my son while playing games would often result in chaos. It has become a routine for him to spend time playing cricket in android phone than to play the same sport outdoor," T Abirami, a parent of 11-year-old said. Psychologists slammed the parents for developing the situation as they permit kids to spend time with gadgets since they want children to be indoors and at the same time not to disturb them. "Spending time with gadgets is always one way communication. But playing with children of equal age groups would promote the social skills of the child," D Randeep Rajkumar, a clinical psychologist in Trichy said. Compared to the situation a few years back, psychologists here revealed that 4 to 5 parents are knocking the doors of psychologists per day seeking their help for their smartphone addicted children. "Working parents seeking counselling for their children are increasing. We were attending only 3 to 4 such cases in an entire week a few years back. Now on any given day we attending to 4 to 5 such cases," Randeep Rajkumar added. Psychologists suggest parents to let their kids play the traditional games that promote hand-eye coordination skills rather than playing the same in a smartphone.