VADODARA/ ANAND: Father of the class XI student, who died after being knocked down by a rash driver in Anand last month, has approached Anand district superintendent of police (SP) alleging that the   investigating the case has botched up the investigation.

 It was on December 21 that  , a commerce stream student of   School, was knocked down by biker Kevin Patel when she was returning home on her two-wheeler with 13-year-old brother Dev riding pillion near Zydus Hospital in Anand. Maitri died on the spot while Dev suffered serious injuries and was discharged only two days back. However, the   police is yet to arrest Kevin, who has applied for anticipatory bail. 
 
 “There were three eyewitnesses – Nitesh Parmar, Manu Parmar and Nimesh Suthar – who apart from a gathering of over 50 persons were present at the spot when my daughter died because of the rash driving by Kevin. But the police which had reached the spot later did not bother to take the complaint,” Maitri’s father Rupesh Talati, who works as an insurance agent, told TOI. 
 
 “Even when the eyewitnesses reached the police station, the complaint was not registered and was also too traumatized. My complaint was registered late,” Rupesh has stated in his complaint to Anand SP. He said till date the police have made no efforts to contact or register statements of eyewitnesses. 
 
 The memorandum further states that the police has also not checked CCTV footage of the road where, according to witnesses, Kevin was racing for fun with a girl riding as pillion. “The bike did not have RTO registration. The cops have so far not investigated how did the bike reach the accused and neither have they taken into consideration technical specifications of the bike,” said Rupesh. 
 
 Anand SP Makrand Chauhan said, “I have assured him that the case will reach its logical end and all aspects related to the case will be taken into consideration.” Police had insisted that girl’s father should register the complaint to avoid a possible situation where eyewitnesses turn hostile when the matter is examined in the court. “If there are CCTV footage available, we will take even that into consideration,” he said. 
 
 
