MOHALI: Three miscreants allegedly snatched a gold chain from a 38-year-old woman at Kansal, Mohali on Wednesday. However, police are yet to register a case in this regard. The incident took place near a temple in Kansal village.

 The snatching took place when the victim, along with her mother-in-law and a friend, was walking towards their house. It was told that a man suddenly appeared from behind and snatched her gold chain and fled with his two accomplice on a motorcycle. 
 
 The victim has been identified as Rina Kumari, a resident of Kansal village in Mohali. The victim told cops that the vehicle did not have any registration number on it.
 
 “I was taking a stroll, along with my mother-in-law and a friend, when suddenly three bike-borne men snatched my gold chain and fled. One of them was sitting near Jawala Ji temple and the other two were waiting on a bike. Suddenly one arrived from behind and snatched my gold chain and fled. The bike did not have any number,” said Rina. According to her, “the accused were in their twenties.” 
 
 Parveen, the victim’s husband, said, “The cops instead of registering an FIR, said they would visit the spot on Thursday and scan the   footage of the nearby cameras.”
 
 When contacted,   station house officer Bharat Bhusan, said, “We have received the complaint and would soon start investigating in this matter.”
 
 As a brief
 
 Following a TOI report that Zirakpur cops were not registering theft cases, a case was registered, according to a victim  . 
 
 “Today cops called me to the police station at 9am. When we went to Zirakpur, cops told us that an FIR was registered. In this case, police have lodged an FIR against an unknown person under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 380 (theft in dwelling house).
 
 A theft was reported in a Zirakpur-based housing society’s flat, where miscreants fled with cash and gold ornaments worth Rs 21 lakh. The theft had occurred in Chandigarh Enclave, Zirakpur, on Saturday night. On March 31, some miscreants had broken into a house in another housing society.
 
 
