For most of us, the new year is about starting the year with a clean slate, sticking to new and old resolutions and having lots of expectations. While some hope that they improve as individuals, for others, it means that the year brings in opportunities and situations to cheer about. As we step into 2018, Bangalore Times asks a few students in the city what they expect from the new year. Here’s what they had to say…

 
 
 Women’s safety is, no doubt, one of the most discussed and debated topics in the country. Strict laws, harsher punishment and dealing with women’s safety is the need of the hour, say students. “When it comes to women’s safety, there is very little that is being done. In a city like Bengaluru, there are several streets in the heart of the city that are not well lit. As we step into 2018, I want officials in the city to take a note of this and make   feel safe in Bengaluru,” says Janya Jaideep, a third-year media student from Centre for Management Studies — Jain University. She adds that in addition to having more police patrolling, there should be awareness created among cops regarding such issues. “Having more police patrolling, especially women cops, will make for a safer city,” says Janya.
 Similarly, Bharath K Narayanan, a second- year student from the same college says, “Last year was bad in terms of safety for women. For me, 2018 should be a year in which every woman in our country feels safe even if she is walking on the streets late at night. A new year is a new beginning and a new hope for a better 
 tomorrow.”
 
 
 
 Bengaluru, students say, is one of the best cities in the country to live in. But there are a few disadvantages that hamper its image. “Bengaluru as a city is very welcoming to outsiders. But having said that, there have been times when I have honestly felt that the city lacks proper infrastructure,” says Sushmita Das, a third-year student from Garden City University, adding, “I sincerely hope that Bengaluru makes up for the lack in infrastructure this year. Last year’s flooding and water-logging situation should be a lesson for us. Better infrastructure and development means a better city.”
 
 In addition to the development, Bharath says there should be more focus on healthcare and education. “Medical treatment and   should be considered as a service and not as a business, thereby making it more affordable for everyone,” he says. He adds, “I also hope that this year I feel safe when I see a traffic policeman while riding a bike. I hope that they ask only for my documents and not ask me to open my wallet to check how much cash I carry, which I have experienced personally in the past.”
 
 
 
 Students feel that if they try to bring a small change on a personal level, it will make a huge difference. “With the commencement of 2018, I truly hope, as students, we bring about a change — a change worthy of recognition and appreciation. It’s always been a personal goal of mine to inspire people and I wish that as students, we all work towards personal betterment,” says Nickhil Motwani, a second-year student of St. Joseph’s College of Commerce, adding, “If there’s going to be a personal growth, collectively, there’s going to be an upliftment of the society. It is we who make the society. ”
 
