PUNE: Travel firms here are facing increasing cancellations of bookings to Kerala this summer following the outbreak of   virus in the southern state. 

 Several bookings — both air tickets and hotels — for Kerala during the remaining summer are either being cancelled or postponed. Tourists planning to travel with children and elderly family members are mostly dropping their plans despite getting partial refunds on cancellations.
 
 The number of confirmed Nipah deaths in Kerala has gone up to 10 with two more people succumbing to the rare infection on Tuesday. Though rumours on social media continued to fuel fear, the state and central governments have confirmed that the threat from the Nipah virus was “localized” so far. 
 
 Seema’s Travel owner   said a group of around 15 people, including five children, cancelled flight and hotel bookings in various places in Kerala and beyond, including Munnar, Thekkady, Kochi, Alleppey, Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari. 
 
 “The group did not want to take any risk, especially since they had children travelling along. They were supposed to start the journey on May 26 and had booked the flight. But they went for a last-minute cancellation. The group suffered 80% losses on air tickets. We had booked the hotel for them. Its management considered the situation and made an adjustment for their lodging at a later date,” Kelkar told TOI.
 
 Another family planning to travel to Kerala around June 10 has decided to drop the vacation plan because of the Nipah outbreak. “We have requested Kerala tourism to send us an official email once the situation gets under control,” he said.
 
 Santosh Gupta of travel agency   said a group of 16 passengers who had booked a 7-night tour to Kerala cancelled their plan because of the virus scare. “They were supposed to fly on May 28 and have sought refunds from the hotels. The group has several senior citizens and children. They are ready to lose some money on cancellations,” he said.
 
 Since some hotel managements were reluctant to give refunds, Gupta said, the passengers have lost out on Rs 17,000 per person for air fare and hotel cancellations. “We told the hotels to make an adjustment by using the amount paid for a future trip the guests have planned in August,” he said.
 
 Sandeep Gadgil, owner of  , said enquiries for Kerala were rarely being translated into bookings as most travellers are in two minds about going there.
 
 Travel firm   has about two-three groups heading to south Kerala on May 26. “The passengers were enquiring if it was safe to go. When I contacted my sources in Kerala, they said that the Nipah issue is mainly in north Kerala and not in the southern part of the state. The group has not yet cancelled the trip,” firm owner Veena Nimbalkar said.
 
 A tourist, who did not wish to be quoted, said he had booked tickets for Kochi three months ago for a six day-seven night Kerala tour but cancelled the journey. “We incurred a loss of around Rs 16,000 per person on hotel and air ticket cancellations. We might visit Kerala later,” he said.
 
 The Kerala tourism industry has, in the meantime, released a statement to allay fears regarding the Nipah virus. It stated that the panic was being spread among the tourists and travellers in Kerala from other states and overseas. “They are projecting the Nipah virus attack in Kerala as an epidemic that is dangerous for the visitors. The fear is baseless to a great extent,” the statement read.
 
 
