A Mumbai-based design firm has come up with a prototype of a smart water bottle that reminds you to drink water. The creators have put a microchip and an LED on the cap of the bottle, which glows and beeps once after every two hours of the bottle being opened. “We found that users drank 16% more water if they used this bottle,” says Anand  ,   with Briefcase, the design firm.

 
 Briefcase ran an experiment where users – employees in a corporate office in Mumbai -- were given two sets of water bottles, which were kept on their work desk. The first set had a microchip embedded in the cap that recorded the number of times the bottle was opened. The cap in the second set had a microchip, an LED and a small speaker, which made it glow and beep. “If the bottle wasn’t opened, then the cap would glow and beep after an hour, giving a gentle nudge to the user to drink up,” says Damani. It was found that the group given the second set of water bottles drank 16% more water.
 
 Doctors and health experts cannot stress enough the need to stay hydrated. Drinking 2 to 3 litres a day is considered essential to stay healthy and alert, and to maintain good skin. However, most people forget to drink enough water through the day, and many have now installed reminder apps, such Hydro Coach, Waterlogged and Acquaalert, that send reminder messages on their phone.
 
 In the West, there are gadgets and accessories devoted to this simple yet essential task. For example,  , a hydration reminder bottle attachment. A small egg-shaped gadget, it can be slapped on to your water bottle, and it glows at regular intervals to remind you to stay hydrated. Hidrate Spark, a  , glows when you need to sip. It also tracks the amount of water consumed, can be synced with a mobile app and integrated with fitness trackers.
 
 While these products are not available in India or are difficult to source, Damani’s creation is waiting for funding. “If we can raise money from investors, we’ll launch this bottle commercially,” he adds.
 
