Attari: On the eve of Republic Day, farmers belonging to a stretch comprising 115km along the India-Pakistan border belt in Amritsar district held a meeting at Attari to contemplate certain issues, including alleged harassment by BSF personnel, inconvenience allowance, rising unemployment and desperation among rural youths, drug addiction and farmer debt.

 The meeting was attended by president of Border Area Sangharsh Committee Arsal Singh Sandhu, general secretary Rattan Singh Randhawa, educationists and agriculture experts. Later, a rally was held at Attari. Talking to TOI, Sandhu alleged harassment of farmers and farm helps, who have to go beyond the border fence to till their land. He explained how they had to face a tough time negotiating with BSF personnel at the border gates, leading to poor crop yield due to insufficient time given to them to work in their fields.
 
 “We have urged the Centre to make a uniform policy for crossing the border gates and ease making of identity cards,” said Sandhu. He said the farmers and residents of border areas were the first ones to help the BSF and the Army and facilitate them at the time of need.
 
 Condemning the Union government for not regularly giving Rs 10,000 inconvenience allowance per acre to farmers having their land beyond the border fence, Randhawa said the announcement was made about two decades ago, which should be reviewed now. “Our demand is to increase the inconvenience allowance to Rs 25,000 per acre due to poor yield of crops and inflation,” he said, adding that neither banks were ready to give loans against properties situated beyond border belt, nor farmers could find buyers.
 
 Head of political science department, Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Jagrup Singh, who was also present during the meeting, spoke about farmers’ suicides. Stressing that every effort should be made to strengthen farmers and help make farming a profitable venture, he said till date 70% rural population was dependent on agriculture and required attention of the government.
 
 Jamhuri Kisan Sabha president and agriculture expert Satnam Singh Ajnala said the government should recruit rural youth in military and paramilitary forces on priority. “Very soon, we will give a representation to the government, seeking beginning of an early recruitment drive of rural youth,” said Satnam. He also discussed the construction of pontoon bridges to help farmers cross the Ravi in any weather to reach their houses and work on farms.
 
 
