The mercury level has been gradually rising in the city over the past many days and has already touched 39 degree Celsius. But there are no signs of tender coconut sales picking up, much to the disappointment of the sellers. Consumers blame the high price of the natural drink for its low demand as they look for alternatives to cope with the heat.

 There are six wholesale shops functioning on commissioner basis taking care of the distribution of tender coconuts in the city. Since the season of peak demand has arrived, the agents handle around 40,000 to 50, 000 tender coconuts a day. Roadside hawkers and sellers on tricycle purchase the nuts from agents and sell them at a margin. There are also farmers who don the role of vendors and sell them on the main roads next to their groves, mostly in the rural areas and city outskirts. 
 
 Says M  , a resident of Jaihindpuram, "The price of tender coconut has been rising every year. The normal one is now sold at Rs 50 and the orange one at 60. One needs to shell out Rs 200 to buy for a a family of four, which we cannot spend quite often," she said. "We have purchased a bottle of ‘nannari’ syrup which can be consumed by mixing it with lemon juice to beat the heat. We also purchase watermelon instead of tender coconuts," says P Kamatchi from Vandiyur. 
 
 According to tender coconut dealers, the price of coconut has increased at the farm itself. A major chunk of the tender coconut required is being supplied from places like Chinnamanur, Bodinayakkanur, Thevaram and   in   district. Due to higher transport costs, they have stopped procuring from places like   in Coimbatore district, known for tender coconuts. 
 
 M Thandeeswaran, one of the commission agents in the city, said there were enough tender coconuts available this season, but the price had increased by Rs 10 a piece due to the stiff competition from bulk traders from cities like Chennai. "Traders who come from Chennai are ready to pay higher price and get the bulk orders. The same price is now being expected from the Madurai traders. The problem is people in Madurai cannot afford to pay higher price, like those in Chennai," says he. 
 
 K Chandran, another commissioner agent, lamented that the sales were not encouraging. "It takes a long time for the vendors to complete the sales and return for the next purchase. At the wholesale point, the normal ones are sold at Rs 35 per piece and the orange ones at Rs 40. 
 
 "There are tender coconuts available for even Rs 25, but not many people purchase them for two reasons – they look smaller, have rough surface and lack the same attraction. The quality of water is the same, although the ones sold at higher price may have more water," he said.
 
 
