PATIALA: Burdened with the ever rising fuel prices, the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation ( ) has decided to hike the bus fares by 6 paise per km to narrow the gap between its expenses and earnings. The hiked fare would be effective immediately and is being implemented across ordinary and air-conditioned buses operated by the corporation.

 In February 2017, that the state-owned transports corporation had increased the fares by 3 paise per km. Following the latest increase, which is being considered to be a major hike, the bus fares now stand at 110 paise per km for ordinary and 132 paise per km for HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning) buses since their fare is 20% more as compared of ordinary buses.
 
 Those travelling by the integral coaches owned by the PRTC will be paying 198 paise per km and super integral coach would cost the passengers 220 paise per km as its fare is double the fare of the ordinary buses.
 
 PRTC managing director Manjit Singh Narang said the increase was going to take some of the financial burden off from the PSU as it would be adding Rs 6 lakh to its daily earnings, which would turn out to be Rs 1.80 crore per month and Rs 21.60 crore when calculated at the annual basis.
 
 PRTC chairman K K Sharma said the proposal for hike had recently been mooted by the corporation after the diesel prices in the market when up by Rs 3.50 per litre making it difficult for the PRTC to sustain its profits.
 
 Meanwhile, sources in the corporation said the revenues of the state-owned utility was also showing a downward trend with the onset of the summer season as the daily receipt had come down from Rs 1.32 crore to Rs 1.25 crore.
 
 Meanwhile, the PRTC officials maintain they were in touch with the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) to get bulk fuel at cheaper rates to offset the impact of price rise. They said that in March the IOC reduced the fuel cost by 23 paise per litre raising the same from Rs 1.32 a litre with effect from May 1, this year, for the bulk purchases. This would also help the corporation to save Rs 5 crore every year as it buys 80,000 litres of diesel every day. Now, it’s getting a discount of Rs 1.55 per litre.
 
 
