SURAT: President of India   will be on his maiden visit to the   on May 29. 

 The President will be attending an award function organized by Shree Ramkrishna Knowledge Foundation (SRKKF) in memory of mother of Govind Dholakia, chairman of world’s leading diamond company, Shree Ramkrishna Export ( ) at Sanjeev Kumar Auditorium at Pal on May 29. 
 
 President Kovind will give away ‘Santokbaa Humanitarian Award’ worth Rs1 crore each to Kailash Satyarthi, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, who is children’s rights activist, and A S Kiran Kumar, former chairman of Indian Space Research Organisation ( ), in the presence of governor OP Kohli and chief minister Vijay Rupani.
 
 Govind Dholakia told TOI, “The Santokbaa Humanitarian Award was started way back in 2007 with the primary objective to honour altruists from various fields in the country. President Kovindji readily accepted our invitation for the humanitarian cause, which will inspire millions of lives and society at large. My mother had raised all her children in poverty, but she taught us important life lessons of helping others in their pain and grief. This award is in the memory of my mother and we want to take it to national level in the next couple of years.” 
 
 In the past, Santokbaa Humanitarian Awards had been conferred upon Ratan Tata, HH Dalai Lama, Sudha Murthy, Professor  , Father Carlos Valles, Professor S Swaminathan, Dr Verghese Kurien, Narayan Desai and Dr Sam Pitroda among others. 
 
 Govind Dholakia said Kailash Satyarthi and AS Kiran Kumar will be interacting with students, intellectuals, social workers and people from different walks of life at an interactive session to be held at Science Centre at City Light on May 29 evening. 
 
 In another event, President Kovind will be attending the felicitation function of family members of cadaver organ donors at Surat International Exhibition and Convention Centre (SIECC) at Sarsana. President Kovind will be felicitating the family members of cadaver organ donors in the presence of Kohli and Rupani.
 
 
