MUMBAI: India may be famo- threaten to boycott exams us for its generic drugs, but patients seeking medicines for tuberculosis,   or malaria may not find affordable brands easily in shops across  .

 This is the gist of a study published in the latest edition of the   that looked at the availability of six essential medicines in 124 private pharmacies across the state, including Mumbai. The study, done by the researchers at Newcastle University in the UK and in Mumbai, found that the policy to open up the market has generated a large number of brands of medicines, but there are still not enough available in the pharmacies.
 
 “What is worrying is that despite efforts to increase availability through market competition, there remains inadequate access to essential medicines,” said the study’s lead author Dr   from Newcastle University. “We found that multiple brands of selected medicines are listed in professional and commercial databases -running into thousands -- yet only a small fraction was available in private pharmacies.”
 
 The study found 2,186 approved products of the selected medicines in Indian databases, but the Pharmatrac database listed only 1,359 brands of these medicines.
 
 The study looked at drugs needed for six common conditions: Artemisinin (for malaria), lamivudine (HIV/AIDS), rifampicin (TB control), oxytocin (reproductive health), fluoxetine (mental health) and metformin (diabetes).
 
 While the diabetes drug was available in 92% of the chemist shops, rifampicin was found in 64.5% of the chemists. The other four were available at less than 50% of the shops. Worse, only a small number of brands dominated the market, suggesting that powerful pharmaceutical companies influenced what is stocked and sold.
 
 Concurring, Dr   said that generic medicines at affordable costs are not easily available across the country.
 
 “There hasn’t been adequate governmental intervention with regard to sales practices by pharmaceutical companies. The   had years back recommended that medicine strips mention the generic names in big and bold print and brand names in smaller print, but this recommendation has not been implemented,” he said. He said pure generic versions of drugs are not available in most cities.
 
