INDORE: Aiming to enter the top-100 list of   in the country,   ( ) has once again applied for the   ( ) this year. 

 The university has uploaded detailed data about the number of students, placements every year in the past five years, number of faculties and their details to improve its ranking. It has applied in five categories- DAVV overall, engineering and science section, law, pharmacy and management. 
 
 “Last year the data provided by us was not so detailed and up to date. This year we have complied data from each department to upload and attain better ranking,” said Dr. Pratosh Bansal, NIRF in charge from the university. 
 
 In the year 2017, DAVV secured 112th spot, which came as a surprise for the university since it was the first time it had applied for NIRF. 
 
 “According to the detailed information that we have uploaded for NIRF, we are expecting to enter the top-100 institutions club of the country. DAVV has become much more focused and is working on track to attain its goals,” said DAVV vice chancellor professor NK Dhakad. 
 
 The NIRF outlines a methodology to rank institutions across the country. Ministry of human resource and development has formed a core committee for ranking several universities and institutions. The core committee has formed the methodology to rank the institutions. The ranking parameters broadly cover teaching, learning and resources, research and professional practises, graduation outcomes, outreach and perception. 
 
 The MHRD might also conduct surprise inspection of campuses to see whether educational institutions have provided correct information. Data submission by colleges and universities started from December. Although ranking frameworks are similar, the exact methodologies are domain specific. It has been worked out for six categories of institutions — engineering, management, pharmacy, architecture, universities and colleges, stated the website. 
 
 Separate parameters have been defined for engineering colleges including the IITs, management institutes including the IIMs, universities, pharmacy colleges and architecture institutes. 
 
 Under the category of engineering last year, IIT-Indore, was ranked 16th, with the score of 72%. 
 
 
