CHANDIGARH: Sahitya Academy Award winner playwright Atamjit Singh on Monday denied nationalism as the factor behind the participation of Punjabi soldiers in World War-I. He concluded his intervention with the question “Have you ever wondered why the Nepali Gorkhas fight for India?” Dwelling on the theme of “recruitment of Punjabi soldiers across caste and religion and impact on culture and society” here at Panjab University on Monday, the panelists also attributed the participation of Punjab in the   I to the martial roots of the population.

 “Sikh Light Infantry, constituted by Mazhabi Sikhs, was not given front position prior to Independence. Lower caste soldiers’ dead body was handed over by the British to Indians, who refused to cremate it. But a few positive changes happened too. Dogras had a separate kitchen in the initial years before they were allowed to enter the common kitchen,” said Atamjit. The panel discussion on the role of Punjab in World War I was organized by the department of history, PU, in collaboration with the department of evening studies, and the AITIHASIKI (Alumni Association of Department of History) at   in PU on Monday.
 
 The discussion began with Lt General K J Singh, head of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Chair at PU, acknowledging the existence of multiple narratives regarding the Sikhs joining the war for the British. “One theory is that the British government appeased the poor soldiers while the other is that Indians had been historically henchmen to the powerful kingdom rulers, so they obeyed the orders. There is more than one correct theory,” he added.
 
 Sikh historian   attributed the participation of Punjab in World War to the martial roots of the population. He explained that majority of the Sikhs were recruited from the financially-rich central Punjab region. He said, “Bachna Lambardar from   sent his seven sons to the war, who did not even take the salary. A Gaur Brahmin lady from  , after losing her three sons, sent her remaining sons to the war as well. Do you think that these people were fighting for money?”
 
 Brar also emphasized the prevalence of caste system in the British military structure. Explaining the caste restrictions in the army, he said “Punjabi Muslims dominated the army followed by Punjabi Sikhs. Dogras and Hindu Jats formed a small part of the army. Due to hierarchy, soldiers got their positions on the basis of castes.”
 
 Sukhmani Bal Riar, department of history at PU highlighted regional selectivity in recruitment. She said “Recruitment was limited to Majha belt. One-third of the Sikhs belonged to Amritsar.”
 
 
