NEW DELHI: He would travel in an Audi, wear designer clothes and accessories and hand out visiting cards describing him as a celebrity  . However, 25-year-old Kautalya Kalyan was nothing but a   in disguise.

 Kalyan would contact his prospective clients through a popular  . After meeting the rich and famous, he would seal the deal by showing his “previous works” and then disappear with their money. He was arrested on Saturday from   in southwest Delhi. So far, he has confessed to being involved in 10 cases of cheating.
 
 Police got on the accused’s tail after getting a complaint from a businessman who claimed to having been cheated by one ‘Krishant Kalyan’, the owner of a wedding planning company called ‘weddingvale.com’.
 
 The complainant said that his son’s wedding is due on February 5. The family put a request for a wedding planner on the website in October and they were contacted by the accused. Kalyan met them at their home and took Rs 50,000 as advance payment for the reception at a five-star hotel in Janakpuri in west Delhi. Later, he took Rs 2.5 lakh as final payment for the hotel on November 20, 2017.
 
 The accused also took another Rs 2 lakh for decorating the venue. To show that his firm was authentic, Kalyan gave them receipts for each payment. The family paid Kalyan’s associate, Rishabh, Rs 40,000 for the ring ceremony due on January 27 at another five-star hotel in Janakpuri. Later, they paid Rs 37,000 for photography.
 
 The family realised that they had been duped when a relative went to inquire about the arrangements at the hotel. He was told that the booking had been cancelled and the cheque deposited to them had bounced. They got the same response from the other venue. Kalyan and his associate stopped answering their calls and later the phones were found switched off.
 
 The groom’s father approached police and a case of cheating and breach of trust was registered. A team led by SHO (Vikaspuri Sunil) Kumar Gupta mounted technical surveillance on the numbers used by the conman and his associate. They got details about Kalyan’s address from the website after which he was nabbed.
 
 A native of Bihar, Kalyan got the idea after working with an event management company for five years. His father is a bank manager while his brother is doing PhD from France. He has a seven-year-old son.
 
