JAISALMER: Barmer police that had gone to Kupwara to trace the   youth who had eloped with a Hindu girl, did not get any clue about the absconding couple. Even their family members are clueless about their whereabouts.

 On the other hand, father of the girl is consulting advocates to file case in Jodhpur high court. Demanding to get this   case investigated by NIA, Hindu youths had planned Aakrosh Rally on Wednesday which has been postponed due to unavoidable reasons.
 
 Barmer SP Gagandeep Singhla said Kashmiri youth  , resident of Kupwara, married Barmer resident Ritu Khandewal by converting her to Islam and took her to J&K.
 
 The father of the girl had lodged missing report at Barmer police station so to record the girl’s statement under Section 164, police team went to Kupwara register her statement before court in J&K. 
 
 Police team with the help of Kupwara police are looking for couple. They spoke to their family members, but no clue has been found as family members do not have any information about the couple. Police team is still in J&K.
 
 Girl’s father   said the entire case is of love jihad and documents submitted in J&K court about conversion of religion, marriage date and petition in the court for security and dates in all these documents are wrong, all documents are fake.
 
 The application for security was given in J&K court on February 20, but on that day his daughter was in Barmer and was giving exam at school and it can be confirmed through school documents. 
 
 Similarly, the marriage date is December 30 when Ritu was at her aunt’s place in Mumbai to celebrate her aunt’s birthday. All videoes and proofs are available. My daughter became adult two months ago and the marriage took place before that, the father said.
 
 He said his daughter was kidnapped because on March 16 she left for Baroda by bus and was kidnapped in Ahmedabad. 
 
 The youth took her to Delhi and Srinagar by flight whereas she has never travelled by flight earlier. In such a situation who took her to Srinagar and who paid her flight ticket, all these are topics of investigation. For investigation and relief, he will soon file writ petition in the high court. On Tuesday, he reached Jodhpur and consulted advocates.
 
 On the other hand, demanding investigation by NIA, Aakrosh Rally to be taken out by Hindu youths on Wednesday was postponed due to some unavoidable reasons.
 
 Bajrang Dal district convener and rally convener Jaswant Singh Yodha said the Kashmiri youth converted and married the girl in fake manner. As per the evidences with the father of the girl, the documents are fake and it is a conspiracy. As per the social media account of the youth, he is leading a luxurious life which is not possible for a person doing a regular job.
 
 
