MUMBAI: The CBI has told a special court on Tuesday that   ( ) had filed a supplementary complaint about being defrauded for an additional amount of Rs 942 crore by fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi-owned companies. The companies include Ms Asmi Jewellery Ltd, Ms   Ltd, Ms Gili India Ltd and Ms Nakshatra Brand Ltd. 

 
 The additional complaint now pegs the alleged scam at Rs 13,900 crore. The CBI has registered two separate FIRs in the fraud and most of the accused are common in both cases. The first FIR is against Nirav Modi, his wife Ami, brother Nishal and uncle   along with others. The second FIR focused on Mehul Choksi, Gitanjali Gems and others and as of February 22, the defrauded amount in this case was pegged at Rs 6,138 crore.
 
 In a statement to BSE, the bank clarified that this Rs 942 crore is an additional amount of fraud that is not related to LoUs/LoCs issued to Gitanjali Gems but is part of a loan given to the company by a consortium of banks. PNB has not named the other banks which were part of the consortium that had given this amount to Gitanjali Gems.
 
 Last week, the CBI had filed a fresh case against Modi and top officials of his firm—Firestar Diamond—on a complaint by PNB that it was cheated of Rs 321 crore by availing different credit facilities between 2013 and 2017. On Tuesday, the investigating agency told the court about the additional Rs 942 crore in an application seeking permission to allow two sub inspectors to aid investigations in the case. Special CBI counsel A Limosin told the court that under section 17 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, no police officer below the rank of an inspector of police can investigate any offence punishable under the act. Special judge SR Tamboli allowed the plea. 
 
 Limosin said that the investigation involves collection of voluminous documents, examination of witnesses and related work within the country and outside. “As on date, one deputy superintendent and two inspectors have been entrusted with the task of investigation. However, due to the magnitude of the case, their services are falling short,” the CBI said in its plea. The investigating agency further submitted that there is a shortage of officers of the rank of inspectors and above in the CBI Bank Securities and Fraud Cell. It said that in order to utilize the resources available optimally, permission under section 17 is required to enable the sub inspectors to conduct the investigations. 
 
 The court also allowed another plea to include IPC section 409 (Criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) in the Choksi related case. The CBI said that arrested accused, retired PNB deputy manager Gokulnath Shetty’s actions prima facie disclosed a commission of offence under the section. 
 
 Meanwhile, the court sent chief manager of PNB, Mohinder K Sharma (54), to judicial custody until March 27. On Tuesday, arrested PNB general manager Rajesh Jindal moved a bail plea. The court adjourned the bail hearing to Friday.
 
 
 
