NOIDA: The   on Friday started work on a dumping site next to the proposed waste-to-energy plant in Sector 123 amid tight security. The work started despite strong protests by locals in the area.

 The digging work, started with the help of earthmovers, was supervised by the officials of Noida Authority. Local residents, however, couldn’t protest as Section 144 of the CrPC is in force in the district.
 
 The residents have been protesting against the proposed dumping ground in Sector 123, citing the huge population in the area. The residents of   121, Gaur Grandeur Sector 119, Prateek Laurel Sector 120 and from Sector 117-122 and locals living in neighbouring villages like Behlolpur, Sarfabad, Sorkha, Parthala Khanjarpur, Gharhi Chaukhandi have also been demanding yhe relocation of the dumping site. 
 
 R K Mishra, ACEO Noida Authority, said that the Authority has a legal mandate to construct the waste-to-energy plant on the spot. “We have tried our best to explain the situation to the residents. There are some people with vested interests who refuse to listen to the benefits of the plant. We are following the court order,” he said.
 
 The Noida Authority had been using a plot in Sector 54 for dumping the waste. The National Green Tribunal on May 30 put a stay on dumping of municipal solid waste at the spot after a plea by residents alleged illegal dumping of garbage there. A bench headed by NGT acting chairperson   also directed authorities to remove the waste within 10 days. In the absence of an option, the Noida Authority has started digging the spot at the waste-to-energy plant in Sector 123. 
 
 The 25-acre proposed waste-to-energy site is 175 metres away from   121. The site is also only 136 metres from Garhi Chaukhandi village and few metres away from Hindon floodplains. Residents worry health issues as the city’s 600 tonne waste will be dumped everyday on the spot. 
 
 Anurag Sachan, a resident of Homes 121, said the residents have been protesting for six months against the Authority decision. “We protested and also met the local member of parliament and member of legislative assembly. They gave only assurances and no fruitful result came out. We are planning our next step. We will not sit idle,” he said. 
 
 Anupam Oberoi, a resident of Sector 122 said the Noida Authority had proposed a waste-to-energy plant at the spot. “That meant they would dump segregated decomposable waste. But since the NGT banned them from using Sector 54 site, they have started digging the Sector 123 site in a hurry for solid waste management. The site is not suitable for the dumping ground as it clashes with the environment safety laws,” he said. 
 
 Oberoi said that the local residents are planning to defy the prohibitory order and organise a mass protest against the move in the coming days.
 
 
