The   of the Epiphany, popularly known as the ‘Feast of Three Kings’, is traditionally celebrated twelve days after Christmas, on January 6.

 Three mysteries are encompassed in this solemnity: The adoration of the Christ Child by the Magi, the baptism of Christ and the wedding feast at Cana.
 
 This is stated in the antiphon, which is recited as the introduction and conclusion of the Magnificat at evening prayer or vespers (breviary): “Three wonders mark this day we celebrate: Today the star led the Magi to the manger; today water was changed into wine at the marriage feast; today Christ desired to be baptized by John in the river Jordan to bring us salvation.” But now, as per the new liturgical calendar, these mysteries of Jesus are celebrated separately on Sundays. 
 
 The feast of the Epiphany is one of the oldest in the Church, and was the original feast of Christ’s birth in the Eastern Church. The Gospel does not mention that the wise men were three in number. It was Origen, a theologian and biblical scholar of the early Greek church, who was the first to use the number ‘three’ for the wise men, probably because of the number of gifts offered (gold, frankincense and myrrh). The wise men were slowly elevated to the rank of ‘kings’. The names of these kings surfaced in the ninth century: Gasper, Melchior and Balthasar; however, all these details have no Biblical foundations.
 
 After Vatican II, this feast has rightly been referred to as the Epiphany of the Lord, Jesus reveals himself as King of the Universe, and the three wise men represent all the people who worship him. 
 
 The celebration of this feast should lead us to Jesus. And he will manifest himself the more we go to him and surrender not only our gifts, but our very lives to him. 
 
 In some countries, including India and England, for pastoral reasons, the feast is moved to the Sunday between January 2 and 8. But, while all other parishes in Goa will celebrate the feast on Sunday, January 7, the Holy Magi Church in Reis Magos (Verem), Our Lady of Bethlehem Church in Chandor and Our Lady of Remedies Chapel in Cuelim-Cansaulim will celebrate the feast of the three magi on January 6. 
 
 (The writer is a member of the Karnataka-Goa Province of the Order of Discalced Carmelites based at the Carmelite Monastery Margao)
 
 
