BHAGALPUR: More than 65,000 students of 29 colleges will exercise their franchise in the Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University Students’ Union election to be held on March 20 after a gap of 15 years. Altogether 383 students are in the fray.

 One out of every 1000 students in each college will be elected as university representative (UR). If the number of students exceeds 1,500, there will be two URs in the college.
 
 With a strength of 6,679 students, TNB College will have seven URs and Marwari College (6,115 students) and Sunderwati Mahila College (6,131 students) six URs each. There will be two URs in BN College (2,497 students). Altogether 61 URs will be elected from different constituent colleges of TMBU.
 
 With elections round the corner, hectic lobbying is being witnessed in the college circles. Not to lag behind, functionaries of different parties, whose students’ wings are active in colleges and universities, are also working overtime. ABVP, NSUI, Chhatra RJD, Chhatra JD(U), AIDSO and AISA members are taking help of their parent political organisations to win the elections. 
 
 TMBU students’ union election had been postponed several times in the past due to various issues, including dispute on voters’ list and intervention of the governor-cum-chancellor of the universities.
 
 In 2017, the chancellor’s office, which found certain discrepancies in the statutes of the TMBU students’ union election, had directed the university authorities to undertake corrective measures in accordance with the recommendations of the Lyngdoh Committee.
 
 The committee, formed on the orders of Supreme Court in December 2005, had framed guidelines for holding students’ union election in universities across the country and submitted its report way back in May 2006. On submission of Lyngdoh Committee report, the Supreme Court, in its subsequent order on September 22, 2006, directed that the committee’s report be implemented and followed in all colleges and universities.
 
 TMBU vice-chancellor Nalini Kant Jha said a lot of enthusiasm was being observed among the students over the elections. “Steps have been taken to ensure free and fair election as per the directives of Lyngdoh Committee,” the VC said, adding presence of URs will invigorate the academic system in the colleges and the university.
 
 
