PUNE: Seventy-five teachers from the College of Engineering Pune have not been paid their salaries for a month now. 

 One group of teachers have been appointed by   and the another group of 75 teachers was appointed by the board of governors of CoEP against government positions.
 
 
  
 
 Both groups draw their salaries from the government treasury under a single bill. However, the treasury objected to giving salaries of the 75 teachers in March as they were being appointed by the autonomous college. 
 
 “Before the college became autonomous in 2003, we were all government appointed teachers. In 2007, the board of governors held a selection process and some teachers were selected along with new recruits. After accepting the BoG’s letter, we are no longer government employees. So we stayed on as government appointed teachers while 17 others switched to the autonomous college,” a government appointed senior faculty said.
 
 But the teachers under the BoG continued to take salaries from the government treasury. “The college should pay their salaries and contribute to their welfare funds. Instead, they were given salaries and other benefits from the government treasury. This amounts to over Rs 90 crore of public money spent on them.”
 
 The teachers claimed the director of technical education and the high court objected to this situation. “The Meshram committee appointed by the directorate of technical education found that of the 75 appointments, 54 were irregular, but no action was taken. Instead, the college moved court against this. We wrote to the   a month ago and to the chief minister a while ago as well. The treasury has finally taken action,” a teacher said, adding that proper structure and reservation policy was not followed while making appointments.
 
 However, college director   said all rules were followed while making appointments. “When the college got autonomy, the board of governors were empowered to make appointments. For the appointments to the government posts, the government will pay salaries. For additional positions created by us, we will pay the salary. If a government sanctioned post in electrical engineering faculty was vacant and the BoG filled it up, the government will pay the salary. But when CoEP created a new place for a biology teacher, we paid,” he said.
 
 Ahuja said they will write to the treasury. “The treasury raised some objections which is holding up the salaries of the 75 teachers,” he added.
 
 
