CHANDIGARH: Those who failed to finish Thursday's "tough and lengthy" accounts paper of Class XII here wish the news of a leak is true, while those dreading another test of nerves are hoping it's false. 

 Along with the examination, a rumour also started in the morning that questions of set II had leaked in Delhi. It set off panic for a while among schools and parents, while the students remained unaware until the test got over and they emerged from the hall. In an afternoon email, the   (CBSE) denied there was any paper leak. It claimed to have found all the question-paper envelope seals intact at every centre.
 
 Rama Sharma, CBSE's senior public relations officer in Delhi, said: "We will take strict action against whoever circulated these mischievous messages on WhatsApp and other social media. We are going to lodge an FIR (first-information report) today." CBSE regional chairman   said: "Even if the questions had leaked out in Delhi, it would not have affected other regions, since their set is different."
 
 Some of the candidates in Chandigarh said they had run out of time to finish the test. Ananya Rangra of Carmel Convent, Sector 9-C, said: "Today's examination was lengthier and tougher than an average accounts paper. The board should ensure a fair examination across the country. I was able to attempt all sections though."
 
 Seema, mother of a candidate at DAV School, Sector 8, said: "The alert on WhatsApp that the paper had leaked disturbed me a lot. It will shatter the confidence of hardworking students like my daughter, who performed well in today's examination. I hope there is no re-examination and the students don't have to revise the entire syllabus once more."
 
 A few students were happy at the news of paper leak. Anshika of DAV Secondary School, Sector 8, said: "The paper was so tough and lengthy that I could attempt only 45 marks worth of it out of 80. Questions worth more than 70 marks were numerical problems, while the theoretical section carried only 10 marks. I pray for a re-examination, for any chance to make it to college."
 
 Her school mate Deepika said: "This accounts paper was much different from the pre-board test. I failed to attempt it to my satisfaction. My hard work didn't count. For the sake of re-examination, I hope the reports of a paper leak this morning in Delhi are true."
 
 
