NEW DELHI: Self-styled spiritual guru   failed to turn up before   on Thursday, prompting the court to ask   to trace him.

 A bench of Acting chief justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar also warned Dixit’s lawyer that it will issue a warrant against him if he doesn’t answer court notice and appear in connection with allegations that the ashram he founded in Rohini has forcibly detained women and girls who are being sexually exploited.
 
 Till date, nearly 47 girls have been rescued from the ashram by authorities and are undergoing comprehensive medical checkups.
 
 The bench also took a serious view of allegations that the ashram staffers were instigating the inmates to lodge counter complaints against their relatives to deter them from rescue efforts.
 
 “Do not resort to these tactics to browbeat parents. If we find that any of these women are minors, then we will ask CBI to lodge kidnapping cases against you,” it warned the ashram’s counsel while making clear it won’t “countenance any fraudulent or illegal activity.”
 
 HC found “extremely suspicious” Dixit’s conduct in the entire episode and wondered if the ashram is indeed a “spiritual” place as claimed by the management, then why were the girls and women kept behind locked doors? If Dixit believes in spirituality he should come forward, HC pointed out, saying there should be no need for the CBI to search for him.
 
 During the hearing, HC was informed by the three-member panel appointed by it earlier that the institute is making inmates write letters and complaints making similar allegations of sexual assaults against their family members. The committee, comprising   chairperson Swati Jaihind and advocates Nandita Rao and Ajay Verma, said the letters and complaints were being used to pressure the family members to desist from initiating any action against the ashram or Dixit. The committee members said that on the basis of these complaints, the police lodged FIRs against family members.
 
 The court found “prima facie substance in the submission of the committee” that the ashram and Dixit may be using inmates to make motivated allegations against family members as a “shield” to keep the inmates on the premises and said it will further examine the issue on the next date.
 
 Brushing aside claims of innocence by the ashram during the hearing, the bench said it is aware that the entire organisation is operated by Dixit adding that there is enough information online that “falsifies” their stand. It warned the ashram’s lawyer that criminal contempt action can be initiated against him for his conduct and changing stances.
 
 The court had on December 22, 2017 directed the CBI to trace Dixit who was ordered to be present before the bench on Thursday. It had transferred the probe to CBI asking it to investigate the alleged illegal confinement of girls and women at the ashram after the court appointed committee said the inmates there were kept in “animal-like” conditions behind metal doors in a “fortress- like” building surrounded by barbed wire fence.
 
 The court had directed the agency to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) forthwith to take charge of all records and documents pertaining to the case.
 
 
