CHENNAI: The Delhi-Kanyakumari Thirukkural bi-weekly express is scheduled to stop at Madurai junction for only five minutes but for at least the past three years it has been stopping for 15-25 minutes without sanction. 

 This extra period, a recent vigilance raid has found, was used to unload a few smokeless tobacco products, mainly gutka, that are banned in the state. 
 
 The raid has triggered a detailed inquiry into the matter, sources said. It also points to the obvious collusion between central and state government officials, allege activists.
 
 As per railway rules, cargo from a train can be unloaded at stations only where the stoppage is 10 minutes or more. Strict action will be taken against the railway officials who allowed the train to stop for beyond its schedule, sources added. 
 
 The vigilance raid has unearthed yet another modus operandi for bringing edible tobacco products into the state from the north. Last week, the Chennai police seized 2,400kg of gutka from the Chennai container terminal. The package was being smuggled from Delhi.
 
 “There is a weekly movement of containers from   near Delhi to   in Chennai in which gutka is being smuggled,” railway sources said.
 
 The tobacco products on Thirukkural express were transported on the VPH high capacity parcel van with a capacity of 23 tonnes. “For a round trip, the contractor was paying railways around Rs 3.5 lakh,” said an official.
 
 However, Southern Railway officials are in a state of dilemma as tobacco is not on their list of banned contraband products that cannot be transported on trains.
 
 The seized tobacco products are lying in a room under   (RPF) surveillance at Madurai station.
 
 Social activist and convener of  , anti-corruption NGO,   had given the initial tip to the railways regarding this alleged movement of tobacco products. 
 
 “We have collected video evidence. We physically verified the presence of gutka in the consignment and then approached the railway vigilance after   didn’t respond to our letter,” he said.
 
 
