AHMEDABAD: For many   the very idea of accepting a ‘peti-pack’ vehicle straight from the   insane as it may look exactly like everyone else’s who bought that car and is on the road or the parking lot!   may be just the beginning. Some may want to raise their vehicles up by a foot or more, install a deafening sound system, install blaring pressure horns or install those fancy looking bull bars or crash guards, or even go for an engine upgrade that defies all road speed limit rules. These may be just the basic requirements to be the coolest low-rider on the block, but may be life threatening to other road users. 

 Many modifications are illegal unless approved by the Ahmedabad RTO. While some modifications may be allowed, there are many others which are deemed illegal under the the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989. On December 7 last year the Union ministry of road transport issued a notification to all states banning bull bars and crash guards in cars and SUVs as they “proved to be life threatening for pedestrians as well as occupants of the vehicle.”
 
 The second biggest issue is engine tweaking where the buyer changes the engine, without prior approval from the RTO. Modification plans should be clearly stated, and even if approval is given, the car will have to be tested by authorized agencies such as the ARAI at owner’s cost.
 
 
 
 
 Headlights that do not adhere to specifications as laid down under IS 8415-1977 of Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) have been banned under Rule 104(3) of Central Motor Vehicles Regulations (CMVR). The same rules specify vehicles should be fitted with two or four headlamps positioned upto 1.5m from the ground. The headlamp beam should extend to a minimum of 15.5m and be downward facing.
 
 
 
 
 Fog lamps should comply with Rule 104 and 106 of CMVR. The lamps should be fitted only up to a height of 1.5m from the ground. If in the event the vehicles are fitted with roof mounted fog lamps, they should be used only on off roads and not on public roads.
 
 
 
 Blaring fancy horns are banned under Rule 119(2) of CMVR. Horns louder than 115 decibels are banned and so are multi-tone horns that sound harsh and disturbing to the ear.
 
 
 
 
 Exhausts of all vehicles are supposed to be positioned at a downward angle of more than 30 degrees. The exhaust should not be jutting out of the left side of the vehicle. Also, the exhaust should not be louder than 88dB under the Rule 120 of the CMVR.
 
 
