Gachibowli Indoor Stadium was buzzing with enthusiasm on Thursday evening. It was Hyderabad Hunters’ first match on home turf in the ongoing Premier   League (PBL) and the stadium wore a hue of red. The crowd, clad in their home team’s jerseys and armed with flags and props, thronged the stands and rooted for the Hunters, who locked horns with the Bengaluru Blasters in the last league match of the tournament. And the Hunters didn’t let the fans down as they routed Team Bengaluru 5-0 to clinch the top spot in the tournament standings with 20 points and booked a fight against the Delhi Dashers in the semifinals on Friday. It was however, heartening to see a huge crowd turning up in the stadium despite the match being of little consequence as both the teams had qualified for the last four before the clash. 

 Buoyed by excellent displays by local boy   and star-campaigner Carolina Marin, the Hunters outplayed the Blasters in every department of the game. mixed doubles duo Pia Zebadiah Bernadet and Satwiksarairaj Rankireddy, started the proceedings for Team Hyderabad on a high note winning against Blasters’ Manu Attri and   in a three-game thriller. Sai Praneeth too won a tough battle against Chong Wei Feng, who gave the World No. 16 a good fight. Carolina Marin cruised to victory against her Scottish opponent   and gave the home team a 3-0 lead in front of a vociferous crowd that went on chanting “We Love Marin” after every point during the match. When Lee Hyun II clinched the Trump Match against Subhankar Dey, the crowd erupted and the stadium echoed with choruses of ‘Jeetega bhai jeetega, Hyderabad jeetega’. Hunters’ whitewash was definite when Men’s Doubles duo   and Yoo Yeon Seong sealed the last match against Blasters’ Boe Mathias and Kim Sa Rang. 
 
 By the time Lee clinched the final point against Subhankar, talks of who team Hyderabad would face in the semifinals were already doing rounds in the crowd. While many were speculating a face off with Ahmedabad   Masters, there were a few who crossed their fingers for Team Delhi to face Marin and Co. But one thing the enthusiastic Hyderabadi crowd was sure about was that the Hunters will have their wholehearted support, nevermind who they face, or what the outcome may be. 
 
