RAJKOT: Mystery shrouds the ‘disappearance’ of nearly 600 cows from a panjrapole (cow shelter) in Torania village, 15 km from Junagadh. The  , which sends cows to the shelter home to curb stray cattle menace on roads, claims that the bovines are missing. However, the panjrapole owner and manager claims these cows died during the one year and most of them were ill due to consumption of plastic.

 M K Nandani, deputy municipal commissioner,   told TOI, “It’s true that the cows which we handed over to the shelter are missing. During the last year, we impounded nearly 789 cows and sent them there. We have issued a notice to the owner and demanded a copy of register which shows how many cows came there and and how many died and when. If we find malpractice, an FIR will be lodged.”
 
 The civic body pay Rs 3,000 as one-time maintenance cost of impounded cattle sent to the shelter home.
 
 Hemal Gujarati, a government veterinary doctor, said, “We didn’t find any evidence of death of any animal in the shelter home. Usually, animals die in big number only due to some epidemic but there is no disease outbreak here.” 
 
 However,  , the owner iof Torania panjrapole denied the allegations,. Talking to TOI. he said: “I haven’t sold any cow. Nearly 450 cows died in last six to seven months due to consumption of plastic before they were sent here. They were already ill and villagers are witness to the fact that daily one or two cows were dying. I had orally informed veterinary doctor of JMC before seven months but he said they couldn’t anything if cows die due to plastic.”
 
 The issue has, however, generated lot of heat among the local politicians as well as animal activists. Even as the chairman of JMC’s standing committee alleged malpractices, the state   members alleged a massive scam.
 
 Mayor Adhyashakti Majmudar said, “JMC has initiated inquiry and we will lodge FIR against those responsible.” 
 
 Rajendra Shah, member of the welfare board claimed: “This is a state-wide scam. Around 90% of the cows handed over by various corporations and municipalities to shelter homes are missing and there is no account of these animals. The municipal corporation has so far sent 40,408 cows to shelter home to curb the menace on roads. It’s the duty of civic body to conduct a proper audit of the cows but this is not done.”
 
 
