INDORE:   is no less than an army trainer. For him, the road to success starts with discipline. The 56-year-old is very particular about things he goes about. So, when   beat Karnataka in the epic semi-final, there were no celebrations. He also requested   officials not to organize anything when the team reached Nagpur.

 Vidarbha players have got so used to his instructions that Rajneesh Gurbani, ‘man of the match’ in the final, turned to Pandit asking how they would be celebrating when commentator Amol Majumdar asked him about plans.
 
 “They deserve to celebrate. They were waiting for this day. There is no restriction. VCA president Anand Jaiswal has also told me that I should not put any restrictions on their celebrations. They can do whatever they want,” said Pandit.
 
 Pandit has won the title as a player and coach for Mumbai. It’s ‘normal’ to win the title for Mumbai, who have done it 41 times. They are expected to win. However, it’s different when a small team like Vidarbha goes all the way.
 
 “This win will not only change the team, it will also have an impact on the youngsters in Vidarbha. Players who are 14 and 16 years old will also be saying they can win. That’s the kind of culture I would be happy to achieve in Vidarbha,” said Pandit.
 
 Pandit also acknowledged the role of support staff. “They have been equally helping. Bowling coach Subroto Banerjee was superb. It reflects in the performance of the fast bowlers, especially Gurbani. Wasim Jaffer and R Satish have been role models. Today, youngsters like Wadkar have performed because the players like Faiz have passed on a positive energy in the dressing room,” said the former India wicketkeeper.
 
 After Umesh Yadav, who played in the semi-final against Karnataka, became unavailable for the final as he left for the South Africa tour, Vidarbha did not his replacement. Pandit asked for four pacers — Aditya Thakare, Shubham Kapsey, Ravi Thakur and Suniket Bingewar. All were tested at the nets and Thakare included in the squad.
 
 “We are grooming them and wanted them to have a feel of the dressing room. Look at Thakare. I was not too convinced initially but Prashant Vaidya (VCA vice-president) firmed up my decision. Now the U-19 boy is a part of history and he will always remember it,” said Pandit.
 
 Last year he had done the same with Mumbai and included 17-year-old Prithvi Shaw, now the under-19 India skipper for the World Cup, in the semi-final. “Milind Rege (selection committee chairman of Mumbai) prodded me like Prashant did here, so I thought even this would click,” said Pandit.
 
 Pandit is unfazed about expectations and future. He is just focusing on process. “We have been following a routine and done it well. All credit goes to players as they have put in hard work. The team is together and the players are enjoying the sessions. We stayed together all the time and there were certain kinds of activities in the team. That’s a fantastic thing,” he said.
 
 
