London: Leading business representatives from   in the UK and Kolkata have signed an MoU agreeing to help 10 businesses from each city do business with each other and to build other links between the two cities.

 The Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC), Derby City Council and East Midlands Chamber of Commerce (EMCC) signed the MoU in Derby on Thursday agreeing to support 20 businesses, 10 from each region, with specific bilateral trade and investment opportunities over the next year and to start a series of activities to facilitate cultural, civic and tourism ties.
 
 Through the MoU, Derby representatives and the Kolkata business delegation led by ICC director general Dr Rajeev Singh agreed to start and deepen trade and investment relationships in innovative engineering, automotive and industrial sectors.
 
 Specifically, they agreed to assist 20 companies in any industry with bespoke consultancy and business support, to do business in the other’s region. The signatories will now seek to identify the 20 companies in the coming two months and roll out the support in the following 10 months. 
 
 “This paves the way for an increased flow of international trade between our region and Kolkata and West Bengal,” said David Pearson, director of partnerships and membership services, EMCC.
 
 Derby is a city in the East Midlands that has a lot of similarities to Kolkata. It is one of the birthplaces of the industrial revolution and, similar to Kolkata, traditionally housed heavy industries such as engineering, rail and manufacturing. It is now a centre for advanced transport manufacturing and engineering, home to the world’s second largest defence aero engine manufacturer, Rolls-Royce, and to the Bombardier rail vehicle production site. 
 
 “Companies in Derby used to do lots of heavy manufacturing but over the last 10 to 15 years they have been introducing technology to avoid mass unemployment. Kolkata is a decade or more behind Derby but hopefully it will follow the same growth trajectory and replace old practices with more advanced engineering,” said Pratik Dattani, one of the Indian delegates.
 
 The Kolkata delegates were particularly impressed by Derby Manufacturing University Technical College (UTC), which provides technical and academic education for 14- to 19-year-olds. Kalyan Kar, co-founder of the Kolkata 4.0 initiative, which aims to promote positive thinking about Kolkata, said: “This kind of practical learning and skill development has a lot of applications for India.”
 
 Dr Rajeev Singh invited Derby City Council representatives to Kolkata for a joint event showcasing the shared industrial heritage and excellence of the two cities.
 
 Councillor Baggy Shanker of Derby City Council said: “We are committed to exploring the opportunities a partnership brings, opening doors to joint business ventures and inward investment, creating opportunities in education, culture and tourism, and also creating lasting friendships.”
 
 
