NAGPUR: Very soon, amateur artistes in the city will find some respite and support. A small auditorium to support their interests has nearly been built, at the premises of Rajaram   Library in Gokulpeth. Librarian Anil Chanakhekar is willing to to give the space for free for  , music, book launches, artist interactions, and so on. 

 The humble auditorium, measuring about 4000 sq feet, can accommodate around 150 people, and will be inaugurated by the end of January. The stage size is 25 *20 feet, and will have light facilities and sound system. 150 is a good enough figure for theatre audience in Nagpur. 
 
 Not only will this space serve as a platform for senior artistes, but will induce confidence in budding artistes so that they can organize their shows at the venue, he says, adding that Rajya Natya Mahotsav is an important competition, and this space will give them time to practice and hone skills.
 
 While huge auditoriums are being built, there is lack of space for amateurs to practice theatre. Rent for booking auditoriums is Rs 15000 on an average. “Even if the newly built Suresh Bhat Auditorium is given to artistes for only Rs 5000, the cost of production reaches anywhere near Rs 15000. Artistes can hire Suresh Bhat Auditorium for Rs 5000 only on the condition that there will be no tickets. An artist will have to sell his house if we were to continue without charging for tickets,” says Chanakhekar. 
 
 If the theatre scene in a city is to be developed, amateur artistes should be given space for free. They should be allowed to come together and interact, he adds. Even at present, the small hall at the   is given free for condolence meets, book releases, and theatre practice.
 
 Five years ago, an open theatre existed at the libraries premises, which saw numerous one act plays or poetry recitals. However, the ground would become muddy owing to rains. Due to lack of funds to build shelter, the place was rented to the people who set shop for selling domestic household products. "I didn't charge rent from them, but rather got a permanent structure built from them. The money for electricity will be borne by cultural groups like who have come forward to support the idea, as well as individual sponsorers who have shown interest. The project is worth nearly five lakh, but will remain a free space for all kinds of creative fields. 
 
 Chanakhekar, a former cashier with   until he retired over 25 years ago, was himself a theatre artiste, and says he knows how theatre artistes have to suffer for their passion. “Nagpur needs several small theatres, those which can accommodate about 150 people. There is no need to build huge theatres such as Suresh Bhat Auditorium, as it is of no use to amateurs,” he says, adding that it was sad to see that on the day of inauguration of Bhat auditorium, there were a galaxy of personalities, but no poet or writer was in sight. In Pune, Bal Gandharva Mandir was inaugurated in 1967. The inauguration of that theatre was done by Marathi’s top writers of that time, Acharya Atre and NS Phadke, he said. 
 
 
