NAGPUR: The cost of   project has reduced further due to various measures taken by executing agency  . The cost is now Rs 600 crore less than the detailed project report (DPR) estimate of Rs 8,680 crore. A year ago, the saving was Rs 400 crore. The money thus saved will be used to extend the existing routes and construct six new stations.

 The cost saving has not been done by compromising with the quality of work or safety standards. Except Nagpur Metro, the cost of most major projects has only gone up due to delays. The burden is ultimately borne by the taxpayer. Other agencies have not even made an effort to reduce the project cost, claimed sources in Mahametro.
 
 A source in Mahametro said the agency had set a target of 10% cost reduction. “We have almost achieved it, because Rs 2,000 crore is fixed component — taxes and land acquisition. This means the project cost for us is Rs 6,680 crore, and 10% comes to Rs 668 crore,” he added.
 
 While exact break up of cost saving is not available, 70% of it is in the systems — signalling, telecommunications, rolling stock, automatic fare collection (AFC) etc, and 30% is in civil work.
 
 The reduction in construction cost is on three counts. The width of the viaduct has been reduced by doing away with side set off. “We have central evacuation system instead of side one. This means that if something untoward happens on the viaduct, people will get down from front and back instead of the sides,” the source said.
 
 The area of the depots too has been reduced as many trains will be parked at stations at night. The DPR envisaged parking all trains in the two depots. The DPR had also envisaged long platforms to cater to six-coach trains. “We have designed the platforms for three-coach trains and kept space for extending them when we use six-coach trains. Even otherwise, we believe in increasing the frequency rather than number of coaches,” the official said.
 
 Due to international competitive bidding, the cost of coaches is also less as compared to that envisaged in the DPR. Mahametro decided to use communication based train control ( ) signalling system instead of the conventional one, which led to further savings. Mahametro will also not spend a single penny on automatic fare collection (AFC) system as the same is being borne by  . The cost of AFC was Rs280 crore. In addition,   will pay a royalty of Rs30 crore.
 
 
