PANCHKULA: A day after TOI reported that the district elementary education officials, Panchkula, had no data available on the number of   lying   for EWS (economical weaker section) students in Classes II to Classes VIII after the first draw of lots, the department has compiled the data and sent it to the directorate of elementary education, Haryana, on Thursday. The date of the second draw had also passed.

 As per the data, a copy of which is with TOI, in Panchkula only 33 % EWS seats have been filled so far while 67% seats are still lying vacant in 146   schools.
 
 Till date, 509 seats have been filled and 1,632 seats are still lying vacant under rule 134-A of Haryana Education Rules for Class II to Class VIII. As per the act, 10 % of the seats are allotted to the students from Class II to Class VIII in every private school. Under rule 134, these students get free education till Class VIII.
 
 Raipur Rani Block performed well as compared to other blocks in the district. Under this rule, 168 seats have been filled while 41 seats are still vacant. These vacant seats are in 9 private schools according to the data released by the district elementary education office, Panchkula.
 
 In Barwala block, at present 15 seats have been filled out of which 191 seats under EWS category are vacant. So far, 15 seats have been filled. Most of the seats in Pinjore block are also lying vacant. There are total 1,394 seats in this block, which are still vacant in 112 private schools. Only 326 seats in the Pinjore block have been filled so far.
 
 However, in Morni block, not a single applicant appeared for the admission under this act. In the block, all the 6 seats are still vacant.
 
 In the meantime, some of the EWS students’ parents reached the district elementary education office in Sector 7, Panchkula, on Thursday and complained to the deputy DEO, who has the additional charge that the schools are not giving admission to their kids even after passing the examination. 
 
 Parents didn’t want to be named as the admission process is still on and if they name the kids, they can get into trouble.
 
 Urmila Bangr, deputy district elementary education officer, said, “The status reports of the students who have received admission and the present number of vacant seats have been sent to the directorate of elementary education, Haryana.” 
 
 She also added, “The direction has been issued to the block education officers to take strict action against those schools who have not been giving admission to the eligible candidates for the vacant seats under rule 134 A of Haryana school education”.
 
 
