NEW DELHI: The ‘anti-smog gun’ that was last tested in December returned to the capital’s streets on Monday as part of the ongoing ‘Clean   for Delhi’ campaign. The machine was used on PWD roads during non-peak hours to check how effective it could be in reducing pollution.

 It was flagged off by environment minister Imran Hussain from the Delhi secretariat. Calling it ‘anti-smog   campaign’, the minister said the machine would continue to be used for the next few days on different roads after consultation with Delhi Police. However, its effectiveness and the results would determine how long the gun may be used, officials said.
 
 Hussain said the gun, which is able to spray atomised water to a height of 100 metres, is likely to suppress both airborne particles and dust on the road surface. The gun would also be used on roadside vegetation to reduce the effects of particulate matter on them. The government in December had tested the technology at the busy   ISBT – a location known to be severely polluted. However, Central Pollution Control Board ( ) had dubbed the attempt unsuccessful, saying the machine was actually increasing the moisture content in the area and was unable to cover enough area.
 
 “The machine has a working area of 30 to 100 metres that works out to be just 0.03 square kilometres when compared to Delhi's 1,484 sq km. This means the capital would require around 50,000 such installations to make any difference to its air quality,” the CPCB had said in December.
 
 The move comes just a few days after the Delhi government started testing ‘anti-pollution’ towers at ITO – a technology which the government says is capable of absorbing particulate matter from the surroundings and circulating clean air back into the environment. Hussain said the government would continue to explore more technologies to reduce air pollution. The ‘Clean Air for Delhi’ campaign is being jointly organised by the Delhi government and the Union environment ministry from February 10 to 23. 
 
 The Union environment ministry said the campaign’ has had a qualitative impact on air quality with nearly 1900 challans issued. The ministry said that fines amounting to Rs 54 crore had been collected by the teams on the ground for pollution-related violations and the continued efforts have shown an improvement in the air quality.
 
 
