KOLKATA: Mob rule took over E M   at Chingrighata after two college students died under the wheels of a bus on Saturday, triggering arson and vandalism of a scale not seen in the city in recent memory and clogging Kolkata’s entire eastern flank and leaving thousands of motorists stranded for over three hours. 

 A mob of over 500 men and women engaged cops in several rounds of pitched battle using whatever they could find — bricks, glass bottles and even paper-wrapped loaves of bread soaked in petrol — as E M Bypass resembled a war zone. Several police officers from both Kolkata and Bidhannagar, including Kolkata Police deputy commissioner (traffic) Sumit Kumar and Beliaghata traffic guard and Beliaghata police station officers-in-charge, were injured and five buses — including an AC bus worth around a crore — and four other vehicles were damaged as the mob took charge. Eight other cars were damaged in the brick-batting. 
 
 The mayhem started around 11.10 am, soon after Biswajit Bhuniya and Sanjay Banu — who were on a cycle — were run over by a bus that was turning left towards Nicco Park from E M Bypass. Traffic returned to normal finally around 2.30 pm after cops burst several rounds of tear-gas shells and cane-charged the mob at least four times at four different locations around the Chingrighata crossing.
  
  
 
 The impact of what was happening at EM Bypass was felt across the city with mega snarls clogging arterial roads and key intersections in north and south Kolkata. Caught in the chaos were scores of students, some of whom missed their exam, at least half-a-dozen ambulances and more than 100 people who missed their flights. Hundreds bound for Kolkata Book Fair were held up on Maa Flyover and E M Bypass for hours and went back home.
 
 Accident victims — classmates Bhuniya and Banu, both 19 — had seen the traffic light at the intersection turn red before attempting to cross E M Bypass but did not take into account the free left turn for vehicles coming from Ultadanga and turning left towards Nicco Park. The Karunamoyee-Muchighata bus ran over them before driver Lakshman   could brake.
 
 “I saw the pillion rider raise his hand in alarm when he spotted the bus moments before the accident. But it was too late. Cops from the Beliaghata traffic guard rushed to the spot and carried them away to NRS Hospital,” witness Lakshmi Niyogi said.
 
 Cops are probing whether the driver was speeding but were sure that he did not flout any signal while turning left. “It was an accident,” a traffic cop said.
 
 Residents of Sukantagar reacted to the news of the deaths with rage. They descended on the accident spot in hordes and began brickbatting buses and cars at random. Four buses had been torched, one of them while still on the move, before cops could arrive. Scared commuters and motorists ran helter-skelter as the mob ran riot.
 
 The mob first tried to torch a bus on route S-30. Cops managed to partially douse the fire but the mob then targeted a WBSTC bus, pulling out its driver, and another New Town-bound private bus and set both alight. The private bus went up in flames, the smoke visible from as far as Maa Flyover; the burning bus continued to roll for a few metres before it hit another minibus and came to a stop. Two more buses met the same fate.
 
 The mob had taken over the entire Chingrighata zone by 1 p.m. Cops shut operations on Maa Flyover, now choked with bumper-to-bumper traffic. The AJC Bose Road flyover, a crucial link, was shut next. Things worsened when the mob started a second round of brick-batting even as Bidhannagar police commmissioner   and MLA Sujit Bose reached the spot. Three Kolkata police DCs, too, were at the spot by that time.
 
 An almost-11-km stretch of E M Bypass shut down by 1.15 p.m. This was when Kolkata and Bidhannagar cops decided to take charge. A huge police force launched a lathicharge on the mob squatting on the road, prompting a retaliation with bricks and bottles. Cops first tried to beat the mob back by lobbing the same arsenal back but resorted to firing tear-gas shells and then took to chasing the mob into alleys off the main road. Local residents alleged that even the father of one of the two accident victims was not spared.
 
 Kolkata and Bidhannagar cops registered two separate cases of rioting at Pragati Maidan and Bidhannagar South police stations and arrested bus driver Samanta and revoked his driving licence. They conducted night-long raids across several pockets of Salt Lake and off E M Bypass in search of the rioters.
 
 
