NEW DELHI: Two   posted at the Punjabi Bagh police station were rewarded with the Asadharan Karya Puraskar on Friday for fighting off five criminals who had stabbed one of them. The two were also given   out of turn. It took about a month for the injured policeman to recover.

 
  
  
 
 Vijay Kumar, DCP (West), said on Friday that the incident took place on March 6, when assistant sub-inspector   and head constable Harender flagged down three youths on a bike near a CNG pump at Rampura in Punjabi Bagh. “After they were stopped, one of the boys pushed ASI Naresh and ran away. The two policemen chased them and caught one of them, upon which his friends came back and assaulted the policemen,” said DCP Kumar.
 
 Naresh was stabbed twice near his head and shoulder and was forced to let go of the man he was holding. Harender stepped in to help, but he too was thrashed by the men, who had called in two others to help them. Seeing the attack on the cops, some local residents gathered and caught the men and started beating them.
 
 Despite being injured, the two cops managed to stop the assault on the youths. “Our main priority at that time was to disarm the accused,” said Naresh Kumar. “Since they were surrounded by a crowd, the youths could have attacked the onlookers. We pinned them down and took away the knife from the man who was using it. As we did this, his friends kept pummelling us.”
 
 The five men were extricated from the control of the crowd and taken to the police station, where they were arrested. Police say that they were identified as Mansoor, Dildar, Praveen, Pintu and Rizwan. All of them were residents of Shakurpur. A juvenile too was apprehended after the men’s interrogation.
 
 The cops revealed the five men had a prior history of crime, with a police record of involvement in 21 cases of theft, robbery, burglary and attempt to commit culpable homicide. The assistant sub-inspector and constable had been taken to hospital by a PCR team, where the former took a month to regain his health.
 
 
