NEW DELHI: Police procedures fascinated   and he would watch the men in khaki go about their work from his home near the Netaji Subhash Place police station in north-west Delhi. In fact, the 22-year-old planned to sit for the Delhi Police examination later this year. But his dreams were cut short, ironically, by the negligence of the very men he admired so much. 

 Returning after doing DJ duties at a wedding on Wednesday night, Kashyap had his throat slit by a wire that held police barricades together, leaving his family of parents and three siblings bereft of an income earner. His driver father had retired from work after a heart attack a few months ago. Kashyap drove his father’s Wagon R car for a cab aggregator, but augmented his earnings working as a DJ.
 
 In fact, the unfortunate scooter he was riding when the accident happened had been bought to enable him to rider further from home for DJ work. “Such assignments earned him around Rs 400 per night. Besides his own family, he had taken up the responsibility of looking after his aunt and educating her children after his uncle passed away recently,” said Sanjeev Kumar, Kashyap’s father.
 
 Kashyap got his BA degree from Delhi University through distance education and was enrolled in a coaching centre to prepare for the police examination. “He was so intent on joining the force that he had begun cropping his hair in cadet style,” recalled his cousin Rohit. “He regularly went for physical training and hoped to crack the exam at one go.” 
 
 Sunita, Kashyap’s mother, has been inconsolable since the tragedy. “I gifted him a phone a week ago. It went missing along with his wallet after the accident. Police gave us his laptop after the autopsy,” she sobbed. His sister, Priyanka, is horror-struck that before he left home on Wednesday, she had quarrelled with him and told him never to return home. “I was joking, I didn’t expect my words to come true. I wish I could apologise,” she said, barely able to hold back her tears.
 
 “My loss cannot be replaced, but we want some compensation from Delhi government and Delhi Police,” added Sunita. “At the least, they should give a job for one of his siblings.”
 
 
