HYDERABAD: The once-magnificent Khurshid Jah Baradari, built in the Europeanstyle of architecture, can be restored to its pristine glory and its sprawling compound can be used for cultural and social gatherings in the Old City, says Prof SK Rahman of   and Fine Arts University (JNAFAU).   will rival thefamed   if conserved and restored by expert architects, he feels.

 
  
 
 Prof Rahman, an expert in photography and fine arts, told TOI that Khurshid Jah Baradari or Deodi is one of the grand edificesof Hyderabad that are architecturally, culturally and historically important. “Unfortunately, the   has fallen on bad days due to lack of maintenance. Even now it can be restored to its originality. All that’s needed is the will and love for heritage structures,” he said.
 The Deodi was constructed during late 19th century, and in fact, predates the Falaknuma Palace. Incidentally, both the structures were constructed by Paigah nobles, who virtually ran a parallel administration in the princely state of Hyderabad.
 
 
 At present, there is no one to conserve or protect the building from vandalism. Once restored, the Deodi can be used for major cultural programmes south of the Musi river. “All cultural, social and other gatherings are held in new city, particularly in Madhapur and its surroundings. The Deodi will be a major attraction in the Old City and it will add to the heritage value of Hyderabad if properly restored. Programmes that are now held at Charminar can be shifted to Khurshid Jah Deodi grounds. This will not only give boost to Charminar pedestrianisation programme, but also create a new heritage rendezvous in Old City,” Prof Rahman, who studiedtheDeodi in detail, said. Mushairas, arts exhibitions and cultural festivals can be held there.
 
 
 INTACH Hyderabad convener P   said Khurshid Jah Deodi is the best example of Europeanstyle of architecture in Hyderabad. It served as the Deodi of  , after whom the structure gets its name. He was a Knight Commander of the Most Eminent Order of the Indian Empire.
 
 
 Contrary to its nomenclature, the Baradari does not have 12 doors. It has just five. The pavilion of the structure is supported by eight Corinthian columns that are 40 feethigh. Elliptical archessupport the roof. It has beautiful staircases and wooden floors. But lack of maintenance has robbed the Deodi of its grandeur and magnificence.
 
 
 Like other palaces, the Deodi too has a sprawling ground that serves as a playground for local children. Ironically, the ground once housed a lovely garden with flowers of different hues.
 
 
