MUMBAI: The one-km twin   on the city’s fastest road access, the Eastern Freeway, near Shivaji Chowk (R K Studios),  , have been in complete darkness for over two weeks. A senior civic official said a technical glitch could have led to a blackout and assured immediate restoration of lights and electronic signages.

 Prakash Ganatra, a regular motorist, suddenly lost control on his vehicle for a few seconds as soon as he entered the south-bound tunnel at Panjarpol on Saturday morning. This, Prakash said was not due to any hurdle but as soon as his vehicle crossed the mouth of the tunnel he suddenly lost sight as the entire stretch was dark.
 
 “Even after flashing focus lights, motorists are finding it difficult to navigate through the tunnels,” said another motorist, Niharika Somachandran.
 
 Vehicles not switching on lights before entering the tunnels have been involved in freak mishaps recently. Since tunnels have water leakages too, roads inside have become slippery, which may result in fatal mishaps in the absence of lights, motorists said. The darkness also poses a serious threat to pedestrians walking along footpaths inside the tunnels, residents said. 
 
 Exhaust fans inside have not been working for several months. Strips of yellow lights and digital speed limit screens fitted on top are also not working, forcing motorists to guess lanes. “There were two freak mishaps recently when cars rammed into each another near the Chembur end of the north-bound tunnel. At this end, water seepage gives a tough time while navigating the turn,” said Vivek Sonar, a resident. 
 
 The freeway was built by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and was opened to traffic in June 2013. After initial maintenance by the contractor, MMRDA handed over the road to BMC. Since BMC maintains the road, there is no proper upkeep of infrastructure, residents complained.
 
 A senior civic official admitted that such a situation may pose a threat to vehicular and pedestrian safety as both tunnels are part of the city’s signal-free road access and is the busiest route during peak hours. A senior police official said he would immediately coordinate with BMC to ensure the lights inside the tunnel work.
 
 
