NAGPUR: It seems that a gang of autorickshaw driver and two women, who have never been identified, has become active in the city again. In the latest case, a 47-year-old woman, Sundar  , was abducted from Ravi Nagar Square in an autorickshaw at knifepoint and robbed of gold valuables and Rs80,000 cash, in all worth Rs95,000, near Itwari Railway Station on Saturday.

 Dhoble, hailing from Karanja Ghadge, Wardha, travelled to the city in a private bus on Saturday at 1.30pm. She had come to give the cash to her daughter Sushma, residing in Swawlambi Nagar. Before she could call her son-in-law Devendra Thakre to inform him about her arrival, an autorickshaw approached her.
 
 Dhoble, a farmer’s wife, told TOI, “Two women were sitting inside the auto with scarves covering their faces. They grabbed my hand and dragged me inside. Before I could shout, the duo gagged me and the driver drove away. I tried to challenge them, but the two women took out knives and put them at my throat.”
 
 The driver kept moving the auto in various part of the city for around two hours. Dhoble could not explain the routes from where she was taken. Finally, the two women told Dhoble to surrender her valuables and the white bag containing Rs80,000 cash. She told them, “You take my valuables but leave the bag.”
 
 At last, around 4pm, the driver took the vehicle under the bridge near Itwari Railway Station and stopped near some closed shops. “The women snatched away my mangalsutra and white bag which also had my mobile. They pushed me out and also threw the empty bag at me. Luckily, they returned the mobile phone. I didn’t know where I was. I walked down the road and narrated the incident to a grocery shop owner, who offered me financial aid. But I requested him to explain the address so I could call my son-in-law,” said Dhoble, who is still in shock.
 
 Thakre rushed to the spot and took Dhoble to his place. She was taken to hospital as she had high blood pressure. Later, Dhoble and Thakre reached Ambazari police station and lodged a complaint.
 
 PSI RG Meshram said offence of kidnapping and robbery has been registered against three persons. Dhoble has explained the attire of the miscreants.
 
 
