TRICHY: National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) has extended soft loan assistance to the state government for creating drinking water facility for 293 rural habitations covering four unions at a project cost of Rs 140.20 crore. The works are being done with its rural infrastructure development fund (RIDF).

 This project on completion will provide drinking water to 21 rural habitations in Musiri union, 73 habitations in T Pettai, 122 habitations in   and 77 in Uppiliapuram. Construction work is in progress for collector well at Seventhilingapuram village in Musiri and 5.2 lakh litres sump at Valavanthi in T Pettai and branch pumping mains and feeder mains running to 637 km, officials said.
 
 “This project would benefit roughly 1.5 lakh people by the provision of 55 litres per day per person. About 33% of works has been completed by   Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) and the project is expected to be commissioned by December 2018,” said  , chief general manager, NABARD, Chennai.
 
 He also interacted with representatives from Prabbha Industries Limited, which has undertaken the contract with regard to the flow of funds, availability of sand and labour. During the visit of NABARD team, officials from  , senior engineer and P Kamaraj, executive engineer were also present.
 
 He also inspected the headworks of TWAD board being carried out at Thirukambaliyur, where works relating to collection sump, suction sump, and booster pump house have been completed. This project being constructed by L&T infrastructure has been supported by NABARD with RIDF assistance of Rs 319 crore. The project will provide drinking water to 135 rural habitations in Vaiyampatti and Maruungapuri unions, five town panchayats and 354 habitations in Dindigul district. Trial pumping from headworks to booster station at Dindigul has been completed and the project would be commissioned by June 2018, officials said.
 
 Jinnah suggested that as Tamil Nadu was a water-stressed state, NABARD was willing to support the state for construction of check dams, subsurface dykes and modernisation of conveyance system for water efficiency.
 
  In order to address the water requirements of the state, he called for preparation of comprehensive sustainable water resource plan by the state.
 
 
