BENGALURU: The   (KIC) on Monday directed the   ( ) to probe corruption at 11 checkposts manned by the transport department.

 
 The directive comes in the wake of the department’s claim that close-circuit television cameras (CCTVs), which had been installed at the checkposts to record illegal activities, were defunct for the
 
 past two years and that no effort was made to repair or replace them. With CCTVs being defunct, collection of bribes from transport vehicles is suspected to have continued unabated at these checkposts.
 
 The KIC order, which was passed by state information commissioner N P Ramesh, was based on a complaint filed by Yelahanka resident K Prakash Reddy, who had filed an RTI application seeking information on the status of CCTV recordings at nine checkposts — Zalki in Vijayapura, Nipani in Belagavi, Attibele in Bengaluru Urban, Nangli in Kolar, Anmodi near Joida in Uttara Kannada, Hagaribommanahalli in Ballari, Humnabad in Bidar, Chikkahole in   and Bagepalli in Chikkaballapura district.
 
 In response to Reddy’s RTI enquiry, the assistant regional transport officers (ARTOs) at these checkposts had stated that they could not provide footage as the CCTVs had ceased to function. They had stated that letters were written to superiors in the transport department seeking permission to purchase new hard disks for the CCTVs and the cameras will become functional once new disks were procured.
 
 Reddy alleged that RTO officials were extracting huge amounts from drivers and were only remitting 5-10% to government account while pocketing the rest. The money was being collected from transport vehicle owners on charges of overloading, violating licence conditions, extra projections and driving without wearing a uniform.
 
 The commissioner said negligence or ignorance of not repairing the defunct CCTVs and hard disks strengthens the allegations made against RTO officials. While directing ACB to probe the lapses, KIC ordered installation of 360-degree CCTVs at the checkposts and to ensure that the data is saved for at least one year.
 
