GURUGRAM: The Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) on Tuesday submitted an application before the children’s sessions court, seeking two more months, ie till June, for filing the final   in the Gurugram   case. 

 CBI had filed its preliminary chargesheet on February 5 against the juvenile, for murdering the seven-year-old student of the same school. In it, CBI had given clean chit to bus conductor Ashok Kumar, who was arrested as the prime accused by Gurugram  . The court on February 28 had directed CBI to speed-up its probe and file its final and conclusive chargesheet by April 10.
 
 “We’re investigating the role of the school management and police officials after the incident,” said CBI in its two-page application, submitted before court seeking the two-month extension to the investigation. CBI claimed the investigation is at a very advanced stage, and that they are collecting some important documents. “We need a minimum of two months to complete the investigation and file the final chargesheet,” said CBI before the court.
 
 Police had registered its FIR against bus conductor Ashok Kumar under sections 302 (murder) of IPC, 25 of Arms Act and 12 of POCSO Act on September 8. Ashok was granted bail on November 21, and acquitted by court in February.
 
 Two officials of the school — Francis Thomas and   — both currently out on bail, who were booked under the JJ Act for negligence of safety and security of school children, were also present in court on Tuesday. 
 
 The juvenile accused was also produced before additional sessions judge J S Kundu, who extended his judicial remand for another 14 days and sent him back to the observation home in Faridabad.
 
 In the day-long hearing over different applications filed by the juvenile, his counsel   challenged the Juvenile Justice Board’s (JJB) decision to treat the juvenile as an adult. 
 
 “JJB passed its order in haste without waiting for findings of the CBI probe and statements of the witness,” said Mir before court, adding that JJB’s order was based entirely on the psychological and social investigation reports.
 
 
