BENGALURU: Once infamous as a garbage street, this road in   ward was developed into a senior-citizens-only walkers bay four months ago. But, to date, the stretch awaits official inauguration.

 Aptly named  , the 250-metre stretch is paved with cobblestones, and has no whiff of concrete. While the LED-lit road was to be formally opened on April 8 by local resident welfare associations (RWAs), the model code of conduct has proved to be a dampener, leading to the event being cancelled.
 
 Ajja Ajji Road, located off 1st Cross Road and abutting a huge defence campus in Domlur, was once a stretch that everyone dreaded till it was taken up for development under Nagarothana project. 
 
 “The road has defence land on one side and a residential locality on the other. For many years it was an eyesore. In 2016, the residents themselves volunteered to clean it up and we made sure that it did not remain a dumpyard,” said S K Nair, ex-general secretary, Domlur Layout RWA. Organisations like The Ugly Indians also joined hands with residents to tidy up the place. 
 
 “With the efforts of many, the road has become user-friendly for senior citizens. Vehicles are not allowed on this stretch and we’ll soon put up boards stating the same,” said Geetha Vasudeva, member of Domlur Layout RWA.
 
 However, Domlur corporator Lakshminarayana (Gundanna) said the road cannot be formally inaugurated as the model code of conduct is in place. “ But residents are using the road and it’s no more a garbage dump,” he added.
 
 Initially, the road was to be inaugurated on March 2, but the plan was called off for reasons unknown. Today, only a granite plaque stating that chief minister Siddaramaiah has inaugurated the stretch lies by the roadside. 
 
 Now, with the April 8 launch plan also uncertain, residents have decided to hold a Sunday santhe on the stretch on the same day with stalls for women entrepreneurs. 
 
 TAKING THE LEAD
 
 Dr  , who lives opposite this brand-new stretch, played a pivotal role in this project. “Five years ago, the stretch was filled with mounds of garbage and the area was infested with rodents and snakes. The Ugly Indians helped us many times in this beautification drive. I even installed a   camera in front of my house to keep an eye on garbage dumping,” said Dr Hemanth.
 
 
  
 
 
