THANE: A few former corporators from Thane, who have been identified by the municipal administration for ‘exploiting’ the   law for their ulterior motive, are going to petition before the Bombay hight court against the TMC’s move to ‘terrorise and tame’ them.

 The municipal body has prepared a detailed dossier on the ‘regulars’ who file applications under the RTI act, seeking documents and information on specific projects— most of them related to the town planning department.
 
 The administration has clarified that in most cases, the information provided to them under the RTI law had led to litigations and after some time the case was withdrawn unilaterally. This raised suspicion about the motive of the applicants.
 
 The TMC then approached the police to ‘discipline’ these RTI activists and to initiate action against them.
 
 The former corporators, mostly from the   and  , blamed the administration for creating a situation of constant threat of arrest in their minds by making allegations of serious offences like extortion. This, the corporators said, was a violation of their fundamental rights and suggested that the administration straighten its acts first rather than trying to muzzle their voices.
 
 A draft of the petition, a copy of which is with TOI, stated that the move by the administration is nothing but an attempt to pressurize and harass the petitioners for their conduct and actions aimed towards welfare, benefit of the citizens of the city of Thane.
 
 “We have time and again raised issues regarding illegal and unauthorized construction activities going on in the city. We are planning knock on the doors of the court and also question the administration as to why it is not curbing illegal activities instead of pressurizing us. This is a violation of Section 21 of the Right To Information Act, 2005 and we will pursue the case,” said Sanjay Ghadigaonkar, a former corporator who is among the eight who has filed the petition.
 
 Meanwhile, all this has drawn the ire of former state information commissioner   who is known to have censured the Thane municipal administration and suggested they be more proactive in ensuring any loopholes in the system were plugged, leaving no scope for these activists to operate.
 
 We have time and again raised issues regarding illegal and unauthorized construction activities going on in the city. We are planning knock on the doors of the court and also question the administration as to why it is not curbing illegal activities instead of pressurizing us. This is a violation of Section 21 of the Right To Information Act, 2005 and we will pursue the case
 
 
