COIMBATORE: The ward   draft has come under flak for lack of planning integrity and politicians, residents and various associations in the city have raised objections to its execution.

 The city municipal corporation has received nearly 300 applications, demanding various changes to the ward delimitation draft document that was released by the district collector, T N Hariharan, recently. Public representatives were given a week’s time to come forward with their suggestions/objections.
 
 On Wednesday, DMK   N   met corporation commissioner   to register his objections on the move. He said the borders of various wards were drawn in such a way that they were part of two constituencies. “For instance, some parts of ward 74 and 75 fall in   constituency and the remaining in   constituency. For an MLA, it is easier if one whole ward comes under his/her administrative purview. It’s difficult if just part of a ward falls in the constituency. Also, some wards jump borders, which make it difficult to administer,” he said.
 
 Residents will also find it difficult if they were made to travel to the ward offices located several kilometres away from their residences to register their grievances or avail services, the   said.
 
 The proposal also doesn’t have any mention of slum areas in the city that mostly encroach upon roads and water bodies. There are nearly 50,000 households with a population of 2 lakh in these slum areas. “They are not included in any ward,” said a source.
 
 District collectorate officials said they were yet to receive all the applications from various offices. The main office has received only around 15 petitions. “Major objections have been regarding addition or deletion of certain streets and households,” an official said.
 
 The collector released the delimitation draft document before the Pongal holidays and allowed the public seven days’ time to raise their objections. “The time ended on Wednesday. Now, we will compile the suggestions and send it to the district collector. He will make changes accordingly and send it to the state election committee,” the official added.
 
  has 100 wards. In the draft, their borders were redrawn in such a way that each ward has a minimum population of 15,847 with a maximum of 10% deviation. The exercise was done based on the 2011 census, according to which Coimbatore has a population of 15,84,719.
 
 The biggest ward was 41(Ganapathy area) with a population of 49, 138. This ward was divided into three.
 
 “This is not the final document. All the suggestions from the public will be considered. Based on the election department’s instructions, we will revise the proposal,” the city corporation commissioner said.
 
 
