All official events start with the Tamil Thai Valthu, an invocation to the Tamil, envisioned as a Goddess. But, there seems to be a jinx on the song. At several events, the song, when played, meets with technical glitches. After a few seconds of confused silence, the singers would again start singing the song from where it stopped. In some events, the record would resume playing the song from a line different from the singers, adding to the confusion.  Order, order A meeting of advocates and paralegal workers in the city began more than one hour late. Then, time seemed to flow so slow that many people in the hall started listening to songs on their mobile phones loudly. The karaoke went on uninterrupted till the master of ceremonies, who was waiting for the chief guest to arrive, donned the hat of a judge and called for silence in the house! Tricks of the trade A city resident recently called up the TOI office seeking solution to a problem in her locality. She was asked to call the authorities concerned and their numbers were also shared with her. But, she asked the reporters to reach the spot and create a ruckus. She claimed that an NGO had helped the residents when authorities did not. When the NGO representative was called up on the issue, he said that the residents in the area refused to help him. He also warned against the particular resident, who ‘pursued selfish motives’. Face-saving measure Recently, the city corporation had failed to issue the death certificate of a youngster to his family due to some reason. After a news story appeared on the issue, the certificate was handed over to the family the very next day. Moreover, a corporation official called up a reporter and listed several shortcomings on the family’s side and particularly mentioned that the sister of the dead man had checked the website for death registrations before blaming the corporation. “We had registered the death on the day the application was submitted. But, we update it on the site only after a year,” said the official. However, when the family was contacted, the sister said that the day after the news appeared, the name of her brother was updated on the website!