THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Police have registered 350 cases and arrested 950 persons in connection with the hartal called in the state through the   on Monday.

 A probe is also on into whether anti-social elements and those trying to create communal and religious tensions made use of the hartal that was promoted by various social media groups. The probe ordered by state police chief   will look at why the ‘spontaneous’   in several places. 
  
 
 Of the 950 arrests, the maximum number of 200 was in Palakkad. Meanwhile, 250 of the total persons arrested were remanded by police. Here too, Palakkad topped the list with 100. The maximum number of 100 cases were registered in Malappuram. Kannur and Palakkad followed with 50 cases each.
 
 In addition, 500 persons were arrested under Section 151 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) that empowers police to arrest and detain people for 24 hours to prevent them from committing a cognisable offence.
 
 The arrested have been charged mainly with Section 153A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that deals with attempts to promote, on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, caste or community or any other ground, disharmony or feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different religious, racial, language or regional groups or castes or communities. Some of the arrested have also been charged with sections under Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and Sections 353 and 332 of IPC that deals with preventing a public servant from discharging duty.
 
 According to details gathered by the state intelligence, a large number of those arrested belonged to the SDPI. Activists of all major political parties, including the CPM, IUML and Congress, were also among the arrested. Sources said police have begun making a list of party affiliations of all those who came under their lens in connection with the hartal.
 
 “The hartal and the related violence escalated to an unanticipated level and the trend is dangerous. Those who instigated the hartal should be identified,” said a top police officer.
 
