Amravati: Can an innocuous looking spider be a stuff for a melodious song? Ever heard of an arachnid inspiring a poet to compose a verse devoted to it? Then get ready to hear the first ever spider song of India on   come February 8.

 The song was released recently by Shri Shivaji Education Society president Harshawardhan Deshmukh and former president of   Dr Ashok Kumar Saxena at the national conference on zoology by the Spider Research Lab of JD Patil Sangludkar Mahavidyalaya, Daryapur, Amravati district. The song is all set to be broadcast simultaneously on stations of All India Radio in Maharashtra on February 8. 
 
 A brainchild of Prof Dr Atul  , an eminent arachnologist with distinguished research on spiders, the song was created and composed by artists from Vidarbha, with only the singer hailing from Pune.
 
 “Having researched spiders over the last decade, I always felt like having a song on a spider so that laymen could understand its worth to society. I discussed the idea with my colleague at the music department of the college, Prof Dr  , who himself is a noted Marathi gazal singer and music composer. We wanted a poet to write the song in Gulzar’s style. Our search ended with noted poet and gazal writer Anant Nandurkar ‘Khalish’ of Nagpur. He took extreme pains to pen a ‘paheli’ (riddle) on the spider. We were extremely delighted,” Bodkhe told ToI.
 
 All major stations of AIR in Maharashtra (Mumbai, Pune, Nagpur, Jalgaon, Aurangabad, Parbhani and Ratnagiri) are to broadcast Bodkhe’s interview on spiders on February 8 between 1.05pm and 1.30pm. The song will be played at the end of the interview.
 
 “The subject was offbeat, extremely different and challenging,” said writer Anant Nandurkar. “I didn’t want the song to be promotional. A spider is not an insect liked by households. So, to pen a song on it, explaining its uses to mankind in a scientific yet emotional way, was a big challenge. I did some research on my own, talked to Bodkhe, and lending a literary touch, I came out with a science-based song, highlighting medicinal, security-oriented, and agricultural utilities of spiders. The song is in the form of a riddle. It has a ‘mukhada’ (first part) of 20 lines and an ‘antara’ (second part) of 22 lines. It breaks all traditional rules of song writing. It is science-based, serious and literary. It was a tedious task for me,” said Nandurkar.
 
 “Composing music for an imposing song with a 20-line ‘mukhada’ was a challenge I had never confronted before,” admitted musician Rajesh Umale. “I spent one month, thinking over the lyrics, but an apt rhythm would not occur to me. I wanted it to be on the lines of ‘Jai ho…’, keeping the youth in mind. I kept on trying and finally found the rhythm that appealed to my heart. I spent a full day with singer Jasraj Joshi, winner of Zee Saregama 2012 edition, and he delivered it in a way I expected after four hours of takes and retakes,” Umale said. “It was a challenging composition,” he said.
 
 “I must thank Harshawardhan Deshmukh and principal Dr Rameshwar Bhise for encouraging and supporting me in my endeavour,” Bodkhe said.
 
 
