The   governor kicked up a storm last week when he patronisingly patted a journo's cheek. Here's a guide to professional manners:

 
 
 No hons, honeys, sweeties, sweethearts, babes. Not even bae though you may think it sounds cool.   CEO   made her stand on endearments pretty darn clear a few years ago. "I hate being called sweetie or honey which I still am called at times. All that has got to go. We have got to be treated as executives or people rather than honey, sweetie, babe," said Nooyi
 
 
 
 Don't apply social rules to a work setting. Men and women can pull out their own chairs so don't help unless the person is elderly or injured
 
 
 
 Men should avoid touching women in the workplace. That means no pats on the cheek, back or shoulder rubs (remember  's expression when George W Bush tried it). However, fist bumps and high-fives are okay. A congratulatory touch may be in order when someone wins an award or is retiring
 
 
 
 Women find it condescending when men don't shake hands. They're not fragile, unless yours is the phalange-breaking shake. A handshake is also good for business. A US study showed that people are two times more likely to remember you if you shake hands with them
 
 
 
 This one, say etiquette experts, swings both ways. Men and women should hold doors for each other. And women, don't be insulted. A man holding the door open for you is no more derogatory than a polite driver allowing another motorist to pull out in front of them
 
 
 
 If it's a female co-worker, split the bill. But if the woman you're having lunch or dinner with happens to be your boss, go ahead and let her pick up the tab. The usual protocol is that the person higher up the salary chain pays
 
 
 
 This one is tricky, as Barack Obama found out when he called Kamala Harris the best-looking attorney general in the US. If you want to play safe, stay away from the "you look great" line. Some etiquette experts say it's okay to compliment a woman's accessories, such as watches and jewellery. As for work compliments, keep them coming!
 
 
 
 
