KOLKATA:The immediate impact of the 16-year high in diesel prices is likely to be felt in the cost of essentials as 99% goods and commercial vehicles, which ferry the items to the city, run on diesel. Ever since the introduction of dynamic pricing of diesel and petrol—based on the ups and downs of international crude oil rates—on June 16, 2017, the diesel price in Kolkata has risen by Rs 10.76 a litre, selling for Rs 67.27 a litre on Sunday.

 The price of petrol in the city touched Rs 76.44 per litre, the highest after August 15, 2014, when it was Rs 78.03.
 
  
  
 
 Any change in diesel prices impacts goods transportation the most as the sector does not receive any subsidy. The vendors’ association of   at  , the biggest wholesale market in the city, pointed out that wholesale prices of perishable edible items, especially vegetables and fish, have witnessed at least 10-12% rise following the dynamic pricing of fuel. “The impact on retail vegetable markets is even higher, ranging from 25% to 29%. A common man is affected the most by such consistent rise in fuel price,” said  , president of Koley Market Vendors’ Association and member of the state government’s task force on price control. Much of the vegetables are ferried to the city by trains as well, in fact equal to the consignments that arrive by roads. And railways, too, ran on diesel, sending the essentials’ prices transported by trains up by 17%-20% since June last year,   said. This rise of transportation cost cumulatively has affected vegetable cost by 10-12% in the wholesale market.
 
 Diesel price rise could be one of the major factors behind the hike in transportation cost, but there are other elements, too, that influence the cost of transportation, such as higher maintenance cost, longer waiting time for entry and exit of vehicles from a city, higher premium of vehicle insurance, higher cost of spare parts and shorter lifespan because environmental regulations, said  , general secretary of Federation of West Bengal Truck Operators’ Association.
 
 The hiring charge of a mini goods vehicle from   to Sealdah (about 100 km) was Rs 2,400 in last June, while the rate now wildly varies from Rs 2,600 to 2,800. “Once the diesel price rises, resulting in hike in transportation cost, suppliers tend to overload. While the capacity of a mini goods vehicle is 2.5 tonnes, you will not find it carrying less than 5 tonnes of vegetables,” said Dey. “Though this is a sort of immunity against the rise of transportation cost, overloaded goods vehicles wreak havoc on roads as well as the ambient air of the city,” said environment activist Somendra Mohan Ghosh.
 
