RAJKOT: Nineteen persons, including 12 women and three children, were killed after they got crushed under the cement bags that fell from the truck that toppled near   village on Bhavnagar-Ahmedabad highway in the wee hours of Saturday. 

 Six other persons who were travelling in the truck with the deceased suffered injuries and were shifted to Bhavnagar civil hospital for treatment. 
 
 All the victims were farm labourers from   village of   taluka in Bhavnagar. Chief minister   announced Rs 4 lakh ex gratia compensation for the deceased and Rs 50,000 for those injured. 
 
 According to police, the truck was transporting cement bags from Pipavav Port and going towards Ahmedabad. At round 11.30pm on Friday, 25 persons of Sartanpar village boarded the truck from   crossroad. They wanted to go to Sanand to work as farm labourers there. Police said that the truck driver, who is absconding after the accident, had charged Rs 1,200 from the labourers for taking them to Sanand.
 
 The accident took place around 3am on Saturday. The truck overturned on a narrow stretch of the road near Bavaliyari village on Bhavnagar-Dholera highway. 
 
 “As the truck overturned, heavy cement bags fell on top of the passengers and most of them died due to suffocation,” said Ahmedabad rural superintendent of police R V Asari. 
 
 Eighteen people died on the spot while one person succumbed to injuries at Sir T hospital of Bhavnagar, he added. Six injured are under treatment at the Sir T hospital where their condition is said to be stable.
 
 Asari said that prima facie it appeared that the truck driver was speeding. “It is possible that the driver dozed off and lost control that caused the accident. The drive is still absconding.” he added. 
 
 Police has seized the truck and is suspecting that the driver might have been under the influence of alcohol. 
 
 Sartanpar is a coastal village with a population of 20,000. Most of them are into fishing business. 
 
 One of the injured persons said, “Since past few years, the fish catch has reduced because of pollution in the sea. So, we have to migrate for employment. Some villagers migrated to   and Veraval for fishing while others started doing agriculture labour work.”
 
 
