 Written and directed by Ali Ahmad, the play revolves around a   family who keep themselves entertained with random things. The protagonist Khala (elderly aunt in  ) is an ill-tempered but sensitive woman who is feared by everyone. She has a secret and how it gets out when an insurance agent visits the house, forms the crux of the story.

  Darpan Theatre’s  , staged at   on Saturday maintained a fine balance between a character comedy and slapstick. Without leaning too much on either of them, the play manages to tickle the funny bones of the audience and in the process, slips in a social message as well. The crisp script, well-rehearsed cast and the use of the witty Hyderabadi Hindi lingo left the audience in splits.
 The central character, Khala, with her fierce demeanour, colourful vocabulary and flaring temper, is well-fleshed out. Director Ali Ahmad, cross-dressed as Khala, effortlessly got into the skin of the character which was a near-perfect embodiment of a kharoos, khusat buddhi that you find in most Hyderabadi households. He was a delight to watch.
 A few dialogues of Khala however,reeked of sexism — her opinion on the dress code of an “ideal” girl, preference of a male child citing him as the “khandan ka chirag” — but were in sync with her mean and shrewd nature and gave extra depth to Khala’s conservative and archaic world view.
 The cast — mohalle ka launda (played by Srikant Kamlekar), Khalu Jaan Khan (played by Rahul Kamlekar), full-time maid Hajeera (played by Neha Jain) and the insurance agent   (played by  ), provided ample support to Ali as he stoodout, albeit at times over-shadowing the performances of others with his shrilling screams and daunting mien.
 The highlight of the play was the Hyderabadi Hindi dialect replete with catchwords such as “hawla”, “lite lo” and “kirikiri” which struck an instant chord with the audience and helped the cast cruise on. On the technical front though the sound management led the production down. During scenes with the background scores, the music ate away a lot of dialogues, which was evidently inconvenient for both the audience and the actors.
 There were two things that worked against the production — the director’s choice to cast himself to play the female lead and the play’s abrupt ending. Though Ali did a neat job, one can’t help wonder that an able female actor might just have added more authenticity to the performance.
 Also, the play hurried to its ending. Without a build-up, it suddenly arrived at its climax and adduced the grief of parental abandonment before bringing down the curtains, leaving the audience baffled.
 
  Khatarnak Khala has the potential to be a colloquial hit if only the production fixes the ending and polish the backstage anomalies. Nonetheless, the play was entertaining and thanks to the apt use of the Hyderabadi dialect, it will score every time it’s staged for a Hyderabadi audience. But it would have been nice had the director could let go of the urge to act and cast an actor for whom the titular character was written — a female.
 
