 The lack of a vibrant night life was what was making tourists move away from   towards   or Ooty. But the recently concluded  , that featured a mélange of activities ranging from flower shows, open street festival to the heritage bicycle ride, during the last week of December, managed to charm tourists visiting Mysuru. Incidentally, hotels across the city too recorded nearly 100 per cent occupancy during this time.
  According to official sources, as many as four lakh tourists thronged Mysuru during the Mysuru Winter festival. Buoyed by the influx of tourists, Mysuru Hotel Owners Association president, Narayanagowda, says, “For the first time, an array of events were held at different venues as part of the Mysuru Winter Festival. Tourists had a whale of a time, and because of that, they even extended their stay in the city. More than three lakh people took part in the open street festival last Saturday, which is a testimony to the fact that tourists are willing to stay in Mysuru if there are interesting events lined up for them. Incidentally the last two months of 2016 proved to be a dud as far as tourism was concerned, probably because people were bogged down by the post demonetization phase. Tourists stayed away from the city.”
  Echoing his views, Chairman of   Form, Mysuru Chapter, B S Prashanth, says, “The Mysuru Winter Festival has made a huge difference to the tourism sector, Mysuru had become a transit point to visit Madikeri and Ooty, but the festival has changed the perception of Mysuru among tourists. Even the fireworks displayed over the illuminated Palace received an overwhelming response from people. This new brand of Mysuru that has been created this last year needs to evolve with each passing year to ensure we have tourists interested in our city. The authorities need to begin promoting activities in advance so that tourists can plan their itinerary accordingly. This time, since the New Year fell on the weekend, it was easy for our city to live up to its expectation of being a tourism hub.”
