Panchkula: As 50,000 heads bowed before   and Kalka Kali on the second day of Chaitra Navratra on Monday and shed of some of their material ego and wealth, the shrines became richer by Rs 18.33 lakh.

 More than 37,400 devotees put Rs 15.22 lakh cash, besides six gold and 63 silver nuggets, into the donation box at at Mansa Devi, while the Kalka shrine received Rs 3.11 lakh cash, besides 36 silver nuggets, from more than 10,500 devotees. The temples also received 11 US dollars, 45 Canadian dollars, 10 Australian dollars, 2 New Zealand dollars, and 25 euros. Chaitra Navratra is a nine-day festival dedicated to the nine forms of Goddess Shakti.
 
 “The total collection from more than 2 lakh devotees who visited the shrines in two days is Rs 35.32 lakh,” Shree Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board chief executive officer (CEO) V G Goel said. Panchkula legislator and Haryana minister Gian Chand Gupta and his wife, Bimla Gupta, took part in Monday’s morning prayers. The couple also visited the Navratra fair to take stock of the official arrangements.
 
 Gupta said: “Devotees are coming from far to take the blessings of Mansa Devi and Kalka Kali. I prayed for the health and prosperity of the people of Panchkula district.” More than 70,000 devotees from across India had offered prayers at Mansa Devi Temple in Panchkula and Kali Mata Temple in Kalka on the first day of Chaitra Navratra on Sunday. Both temples had received Rs 19.08 lakh as donation on the first day.
 
 Rajesh Khullar, principal secretary to the Haryana chief miniser, along his wife, Sonia Khullar, had taken part in the morning prayer at the temple on Sunday morning. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar also visited the temple and offered prayers on the first day of Navratra. He took part in the evening prayers at the temple.
 
 Shree Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board CEO V G Goel said that a total of Rs 15 lakh had been donated at Mansa Devi and Rs 4.08 lakh was at the Kali Mata temple. And 45,000 devotees came to Mansa Devi Temple while in Kali Mata Temple, there were around 25,000 devotees. Khullar, after the hawan, also inaugurated a free of cost medical camp.
 
 
