GURUGRAM: The Gurugram sessions court has ordered a stay on the Golf Course Road site allotted to HPCL by   for relocation of a   at  , scheduling the next hearing on the case for April 23. The relocation has become necessary as the petrol pump is coming in the way of the   being built between Huda City Centre and MG Road. The stay was granted because it would require the deemed land use of the plot to be changed, from taxi stand to petrol pump.

 On behalf of the Ameya One shopping mall on Golf Course Road, one Satish Kumar Dubey had filed an appeal in the sessions court on Tuesday, questioning the validity of allotting the site to a petrol pump. He asked how Huda could allot the Sector 42-plot to the petrol pump without first changing its land use, when it was originally marked for a taxi stand in Huda’s own master plan, thus making Huda a party in his appeal. The fresh appeal was filed days days after a previous appeal was repealed by a lower court. 
 
  
  After hearing both sides, the court of additional sessions judge Balwant Singh fixed April 23 for the next hearing. Till then, the current condition will have to be maintained.
 
 Sukhjit Mann, the owner of the petrol pump Karan Petroleum, said she has been left hanging: “What will I do now. I can’t sit idle till April 23. Tomorrow, I’ll repair the path leading to the petrol pump at Iffco Chowk, which was dug up, and reopen it. Till the stay order remains, I can’t shift and start work on the new site.”
 
 The petition also mentions that Huda estate officer 2 Bharat Bhushan Gogia has submitted the site, which is being relocated in public interest, to Karan Petroleum, as till it is shifted from its present location at Iffco Chowk, construction work on the underpass can’t be completed. It says the petrol pump has to be built in a way such that the visibility of the Ameya One building behind it is not diminished. 
 
 “I have ensured there won’t be any visible obstruction to the mall when the pump is built,” said Mann. Saurabh Singhal, team leader and traffic transportation expert at Bloom Companies, the consultant for the project, said, “In the name of public interest, stay on the new site shouldn’t have been given. Now, work at Iffco Chowk underpass won’t start. This is a waste of public money.”
 
 
