NEW DELHI: The  . A slew of conservation projects like chemical cleaning and plaster repairs have been underway at each building, which had been halted midway last year. 

 Upgrades to tourist facilities are next on the list and Archaeological Survey of India has outlined several initiatives that would be unveiled in the next few months for tourists. After Qutub Minar,   gets the maximum footfall. A world heritage site, the fort has also been identified by the ministry of culture as as a model monument where tourist facilities have to be developed on a world-class scale. 
 
  
  
 
 At the Naubat Khana, plasters are being repaired on one side and the   is being strengthened. Expected to last a few weeks,officials said there were several points in the building that showed small, hairline cracks and damage to the original plaster. After the weak sections were identified, repairs were undertaken. "After we complete conservation work on the wall, we will take up work in the front lower portion where several points of damage need to be addressed," said a senior ASI official. A chajja that had fallen in Rang Mahal sometime ago was reinstalled and several lose points tightened. 
 
 Chemical cleaning work has been on at Sawan Bhadon, Moti Masjid and Diwan-e-Aam. The entire upper parapet wall of Diwan-e-Aam now bears a shining, new look. The work has given the building a new lease of life and would protect it from decay. "Chemical cleaning work is only undertaken by the Science branch and has to be very carefully done to ensure no damage to the historic building. This was overdue on a lot of the buildings inside Red Fort where black smudges due to dust and pollution had been noticed," said an official. 
 
 Portions of the Sawan Bhadon buildings have been barricaded to clean the marble and stone-works. 
 
 ASI has also identified some constructions within the fort made by the British and plans to conserve and reuse them. An abandoned building east of Naubat Khana is currently being refurbished to be developed as a drinking water facility. "We are also planning to use the quarterguard that’s currently hosting an exhibition on Chinese porcelain to screen a film on the history and significance of the fort. The film is ready and will be screened once the exhibition is over," said a senior ASI official.
 
 
