For most in the film industry, achieving an Oscar would be the pinnacle of their career. But sound expert   says that for him, “it’s not about achieving a goal, it’s about passing on experiences”. Resul, who captured the mammoth soundscape of   last year, has now also turned actor for a film titled  , based on his efforts to do so. The “accidental actor” and Oscar winner talks to us about his experience: 

 
 
 Acting happened accidentally. After winning the Oscar, somebody asked me what I wanted to do next and I said I wanted to record Thrissur Pooram. Years later, Rajesh saw that interview and approached me through the film’s director, Prasad Prabhakar, saying that they were willing to fund it if I wanted to go ahead. I just had 15 days to put it all together and leave for the Pooram. When I looked at the mammoth aspects of the Pooram, I wanted to capture the frenzy of the people, the elephants, the music, the heat, the dust and the transcendental energy. That involved three and half hours of continuous recording, and it had to be multi-track as there are close to 500 musicians participating. The producers then asked me if they could make a film out of it. I said why not, because a project like this has no recovery, but a movie will bring in a sum.
 
 
 
 Once the festival ended, we went into the details of everything that made the Pooram – the chenda, the elephants, the people and the energy. When we went to meet a mahout at the elephant camp in Guruvayur, the mahout told me that the main elephant in the Pooram is blind. I was amazed with that and I thought what if we replaced that elephant with a visually-challenged person. How and what will he perceive as he would never be able to go to the Pooram to experience it in reality. That’s how we zeroed in on the story and how I got roped in as the lead actor. The film is about the struggles of a sound engineer as he pursues his cause of making the visually-challenged experience the Pooram.
 
  
 
 Thrissur Pooram is indeed the eighth wonder of the world as there is nothing like that across the globe, based on sound, rhythm or energy. When I was recording the Ilanjitharamelam, which has four kalams, I realised that at the change of every kalam, there was a cracker fired from down below exactly at that moment. I was amazed at the precision; it was not even deferred by a fraction of a second. How does the pyrotechnic guy know that? He has to calculate when he has to fire, the distance the firework has to travel before it bursts and that sound has to travel 70 acres. Even the fireworks are structured like the Pooram – it also has four kalams and rhythmic structures that are calculated.
 
 The cracker pits need to have a particular depth – 4 inch or 2 inch – to make particular sounds. To make that they just use an iron rod, coconut shells and then fill the sand. So, I asked them how deep the pit is and they say without any calculation that it is 4 inch. It’s that precise. Everybody including the 500 musicians, the elephants and 10 lakh people at the festival are in sync. That’s what makes the festival eclectic and for me, ecstasy.
 
 
 
 I want to place the people in the middle of the Vadakkumnathan Temple. I don’t know how much of it is part of the film’s story; but I know for sure that I have the recordings to give people that experience. My other ambition, if time and money permits, is to take this to the art galleries of the world. I want to recreate Pooram just through sound because the energy of the festival is unbelievable.
 
 
 
 I feel sound makes every experience real. When you look at a 2D visual, it can be abstract. Once you give it sound, the meaning becomes concrete. The experience of sound is immersive. In the Pooram, you are in this whirlpool of sound. You feel like you have gone to the two extremes of the spectrum; you feel like you have touched deafness and come back. I don’t know how much of that comes across to the audience while watching a film but I am sure there are people who have experienced that in real life.
 
 
 
 The movie has very few dialogues. It’s not a movie that speaks but has to be heard. It’s an atmospheric thriller and to get into people’s minds without relying on the usual sound effects in films, I had to make use of the sounds that people don’t often notice in real life. So, I had to capture that in a way that it actually threatens you.
 
 
 
 Yes. The whole world follows the system except for us. I think complacency is the prime reason. Artistes find it easy because they can dub later. I don’t understand why they can’t learn their lines. That is their job. Why do they have to fake it? I guess it’s ease of business, and it sort of becomes repetitive for the technicians.
 
 
 
 We have to research on what worked during the time. I did the same while doing Pazhassiraja. It is not just about making the period authentic, it’s also about finding drama and emotions there. You have to follow the story and sound should be hidden behind the narrative structure.
 
 
 
 In Malayalam, I will be working next in Kammarasambhavam and Blessy’s Aadujeevitham. I also have a directorial coming up which I would be announcing soon. 
 
