Hubballi: The city is crying out for proper collection and disposal of   as civic authorities have failed to do so. Most of the roadsides have turned into garbage dumps. The condition has only worsened after the recent rains. People now fear breeding of mosquitoes will increase and are cursing   officials. 

 Civic authorities claim they are busy due to election work and hence unable to tackle the issue.
 
 Keshwapur, Deshpande Nagar, Vidyanagar, Gokul Road,   Extension, Ghantikeri and other market areas are some of the areas that are affected by improper garbage maintenance.
 
 Ramachandra Sunnal, a resident of Gokul Road said, “I am fed up with the poor garbage maintenance. No one is bothered to maintain cleanliness. Almost all roadsides have turned into garbage dumps. Despite several complaints to the HDMC control room, no action has been initiated.”
 
 Ashok Kumar Kumbhar, a resident of Vidyanagar said, “HDMC should strictly instruct commercial establishments not to throw garbage and office waste by the road side. If anyone is seen violating the instructions, they should be slapped with a fine and their trade license should be revoked. If this is done, it will force people to stick to guidelines regarding garbage maintenance.”
 
 “Apart from slapping notice or collecting fine, HDMC should have a proper monitoring and disposal process. In most of the areas garbage is being collected only once in two days but in some areas it is done once a week or fifteen days,” said Vijaykumar Hanchinal, a resident of Keshwapur.
 
 After the recent protest by civic workers, the garbage maintenance system has derailed and has not got back on track. The civic agencies, which were supposed to take up cleaning, have failed to lift garbage regularly allegedly after the contract of an outsourced agency hired for garbage disposal and cleaning   was cancelled. Senior HDMC officials are still struggling to streamline the cleaning system in Hubballi-Dharwad, sources added.
 
 HDMC commissioner Ibrahim Maigur said officials have been directed to take care of cleaning works in the twin cities including supply of drinking water on priority. “I will look into the garbage disposal issue and initiate action,” he added.
 
 
