He has been the eternal heartthrob of Kollywood, and continues to impress audience with his performance, energy and charisma. His son is just a few years old in the industry, but has managed to carve a place for himself as a versatile actor, who can play lover boy and action hero with equal ease. We caught up   and   on the set of Thiru’s Mr Chandramouli, in which they are sharing screen space for the first time. Their rapport with each other is quite inspiring, letting us know that this father-son duo shares a bond that’s beyond what words can express. The two speak to us about their plans for Pongal, their memories of the festival, professional equation, and more…

 
 
 
 : When I think of Pongal, it brings in great memories of dad (actor Muthuraman). When we were children, dad would make all the arrangements on the terrace. We used to gather around the pot and sing aloud. We moved to Poes Garden in 1971 and during those days, the streets would be empty. We were kids, enjoying every minute of the festival. It’s actually a very cliched thing to call Pongal a farmer’s festival. Because for us, every festival is an occasion to celebrate. Festivals have their own meaning, message and attraction, be it any religion. We like to give every festival its due. What can be better than getting together with family and friends?
 
 I actually don’t have much memories. I went to a boarding school and wouldn’t get leave for Pongal. And I grew up in Bengaluru. This is the first Pongal I will be celebrating with my family after I joined the industry. But even then, I think I will be preparing for my role in the film.
 
 
 The year before last, I had gone there (Alanganallur) to ask them to conduct it. I had visited four villages then. Very few people seem to know the actual history. It’s called sallikattu — a bunch of coins is tied in a cloth, which is then tied around the bull’s neck. The bull is let loose and any young man can get it. That’s the sport. It happens around Pongal and for people, it’s an extension of their way of life. And I firmly believe that no one can tamper with it. Respect every religion and give respect to what it says, be it the Bhagwad Gita or the Bible. Have you seen the Spanish bull fight? It’s so cruel! Initially, I had this conflict within me — to promote jallikattu or not. But when you look at it, people believe in it and it’s not just a sport for them. Rationalists will tell you, believing in God is irrational. But why do you want to call yourself a rationalist when you don’t want to believe in something that’s good? Mooda nambikkai is different.
 
  Any sport, be it jallikattu, football or boxing, brings unity. It’s a display of strength of character, personal unity and determination. To me, it means the portrayal of power, strength and courage.
 
 
  We talk about everything under the sky!
 
  It’s such a laugh riot with all of us home. Sometimes, I am so scared to talk to dad because I know I will end up laughing for three hours straight. That’s how much fun we have.
 
 
  Advice? He is the one who gives me a lot of advice.
 
 (Laughs) Who me? Actually, both mom and dad don’t interfere in my choices. I have to learn on my own.
 
 We are best of friends, we share everything. Gautham is far mature for his age.
 
 Dad and I are two different individuals, but the world doesn’t see us that way. They expect me to do the same things that he did. So many people tell me, ‘nee appa madhiri varanum’. But no, my dad has his own style, and I want to have my own, too. Dad is a lover boy, maybe I can do action better. I never know, I am still exploring.
 
 
 Gautham was special since the time he was born. He is naturally intelligent and hardworking. I’m not saying this because he is my son. From when I met Mani sir ( ) and he became part of Kadal, to this point, I know what he has done to get here. I have shared with him everything that I have learnt from my father and especially all the legends in the cinema, because I couldn’t listen to my dad much. You speak to the senior actors for 30 minutes and you can get 10 years of experience from it.
 
  I’ve consciously decided to never repeat a role. I did   because I knew it would push the boundary of my performance. I like it when I am pushed beyond what I can do. You can never see me doing films in the same kind of genre.
 
 
  As far as work is concerned, both of us are totally different. Even if a director is a friend, I don’t allow him to pitch a film to dad through me. So, when Thiru suggested he play my father on screen, too, I told him he had to go through proper channels and I can’t put in a favour. However, I was hoping dad would say ‘yes’ because this is a script that I really loved and the role was very good.
 
 We had offers earlier, too. I was writing a script to direct and I was keen that our pairing be unique. I almost signed on a film with Gautham, but decided not to do it later. When Thiru gave me a narration, I fell in love with it. It was better than what I was writing. I hadn’t heard a good script in a really long time.
 
 
 On the set, we didn’t have to act because we are father and son as we were playing father and son. We laugh on the set, have a lot of positive energy. This is what happens when you go to a temple. Because for us, it’s not work, but sheer passion.
 
 : As an actor, I’m seeing him for the first time in action. I’m sure he must have taken me to the set when I was a kid, but this is different. He is so free with his emotion. There have been times when I have just forgotten to speak my lines and I am just looking at him. He will be like, ‘Gautham, you are still in the scene’. It’s been magical, watching him as actor Karthik.
 
 
 He is always engrossed in the script. He will chat, have fun, but never gets distracted. He knows what to emphasise, what to downplay. He will subtly help others better their performance. I didn’t realise certain things he did while performing, but when I reacted to it and later saw it on screen, it was 
 lovely.
 
 You know, I’m now in a zone where I can experiment, which I couldn’t do or wasn’t offered when I was a hero.
 
 
  On the contrary, It’s always tough for an actor’s child. People think it’s a cakewalk, but no. When I entered movies, we started shooting (for Alaigal Oivathillai) on February 2, 1981, and the film released in Tamil and Telugu in July; dad passed away on October 16. I never got to work with him or learn from him. Gautham is fighting the battle on his own, like I had to, like my father had to. It’s tougher for the actor’s kid because he is always under scrutiny. And to excel there, that speaks volume about the character.
 
  For star kids, entry is easy and there are huge avenues. In fact, it’s even unfair when you look at it from someone else’s point of view. But after that, how do you sustain? Sustenance comes from within. If you don’t prove yourself, audience won’t forgive you, and you won’t last long. Star-kid tag is just a boost, you have to use it wisely and do the right kind of films. In fact, everyone
 has to do it because audience is the ultimate judge.
 
 
  Learning is a continuous process. I don’t look at the BO. Of course, we should, but when you are learning the craft, you should look for experiences. Nobody works in a movie wanting to fail. Sometime it works, sometimes it doesn’t. I learn even now. I learn every time I step out of my home.
 
  For me, Kadal was a huge experience, something that I will never get again. I got to work with so many legends. After that, I did make a few different choices and also paid for that. The next few years, I saw what all could possibly go wrong in the industry and experienced smallest things that gave me a bump in my career.
 
 Life lessons are infinite, and it comprises everything in the sense, whoever you are, whatever you know, whatever you may have read, there’s still infinity. We aspire and don’t tire at all in our endeavours. The first profession I’d rate as noble is that of doctors. And then, it’s us, actors. I don’t mean to demean other professions, but collectively, we entertain others. We help people forget their sorrows, we give joy to others. It's a blessing, and shouldn’t go to our head.
 
 
 
 
 
 
