AMARAVATI:   finance minister   charged   for discriminating against the southern   in devolution of funds. 

 
  
  
 Responding to the members on his budget 2018-19 in the legislative council, the minister said that out of the 42% devolution, the cash flow is only around 2 to 4 % for the southern states, while it is 9 to 17 % for the northern states. 
 
 He said that the five southern States were given around Rs 1.50 lakh crore, while Uttar Pradesh alone was given the equal amount.
 
 The finance minister also said that a major portion of the 42% devolution is given to the states in the form of centrally sponsored schemes (CSS), where the central government share varies at the discretionary powers of the finance ministry. The states have to make their own arrangements to meet their share for the  , he said and recalled that the southern states have been asking for withdrawal of the CSS. Referring to the budget projections, Ramakrishnudu said that the state had to go for Rs 30,000 crore loan in the open market this year. The loan was a must for every state and it was nothing new for Andhra Pradesh as opposition criticises, he said.
 
  The State has started with the outstanding loan and the government had to pay the interest, which costs around Rs 7,000 crore per year. He said that the state was expecting Rs 50,000 crore financial support from the Centre this year under various heads, which had helped him to show Rs 5,000 revenue surplus for the financial year in the budget.
 
 Meanwhile, chief minister   said that when AP is marching ahead in growth rate leading to economic growth of the country, the central government has been creating hurdles for the development of the state. He said that the central government has been resorting to humiliate the state.
 
 Stating that the central government should extend cooperation to the state, which has achieved double digit growth paving way for increase in national economy, the chief minister said, the state achieved double digit growth in the last four years. He said the state attracted investments to a tune of Rs 18.55 lakh crore from 2536 MoUs providing employment opportunity to 44.28 lakh people. 
 
 
