Visakhapatnam: As if littering tourist hotspot   was not enough, picnickers have now started spoiling another pristine, scenic spot of   by indiscriminately dumping plastic bottles and styrofoam utensils all across the area in the open.

 With no garbage disposal mechanism in place, environmentalists warn that the influx of plastic, if left unchecked, would spell doom for the fragile eco-system of Lammasingi.
 
 Unlike Araku, Lammasingi, situated 125 km from Vizg, is not a well-developed tourist spot. There are few amenities in place for tourists, and no hotels to stay the night, and neither are there any proper eateries.
 
 However, Lammasingi’s unique selling point is its record low temperatures, and thousands of tourists from the city had thronged the hilly, forested spot during winter to get a taste of the chill. After witnessing the rising trend of tourists, the AP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) has decided to launch construction of resorts in Lammasingi.
 
 On weekends, at least 1,500-2,000 people visit the place for picnicking. Apart from tourists and picnickers, local traders from the nearby areas such as Narsipatnam, Chintapalli, Pykraopeta and other areas come on motorcycles and in auto-rickshaws to sell household knick-knacks and plastic wares. 
 
 “Last Sunday, by 9 am, between Lammasingi Junction and Thajangi reservoir, we counted 70 cars, two vans and 50 bikes within the 6-km stretch. More and more visitors began to pour in as the day progressed. Almost all of the visitors carry plastic water bottles and Styrofoam utensils and after eating, they litter the places. Stryofoam plates and plastic glasses are choking the area, and the Thajangi reservoir is also fast on its way to becoming a dump yard of sorts. There are no dustbins, no garbage disposal mechanism, and no adequate funds for the village panchayat to address the garbage problem and year after year, the garbage gets accumulated and strewn across the village. Nothing is taken back by the visitors,” said Srinivas Ganjivarapu, president of NGO Chaitanya, which is working actively in Lammasingi and other tribal areas.
 
 Sohan Hatangadi, an independent social worker and environment protection activist, who has been regularly visiting Lammasingi, said holistic tourism development is lacking in Lammasingi even though the place has the potential to become a premium tourist spot.
 
 
