JAIPUR: Several leaders of the  , including three former MLAs, were arrested on Tuesday in a pre-emptive move by the state police on farmers’ proposed ‘Mahapadav’ in front of the assembly on February 22 to demand a complete farm loan waiver.

 Additional director general (law and order) NRK Reddy said, “On apprehension that farmers can disturb peace during the proposed Mahapadav, hundreds of them were arrested across the state. Some of them have already been sent to judicial custody while the remaining would be produced before court on Wednesday.”
 
 Jaipur police said, 59 farmers, including former MLA Pema Ram, were arrested here. “We produced them in court which sent them to judicial custody,” said Nitin Deep Blaggan, additional commissioner of police (law and order), Jaipur.
 
 Pawan Beniwal, a student leader of the CPI-M, told TOI that about 100 people, including vice president and former MLA Amra Ram of the  , ex-MLAs Pema Ram and Pawan Duggal, Kishan Parikh and others were arrested as farmers were marching from across the state to converge in Jaipur for the February 22 ‘Mahapadav.’
 
 Meanwhile a statement from the AIKS office in Delhi had condemned the arrests and accused the state government of “unleashing repression on the peasant movement in the state.” 
 
 The statement said arrests were reported from different parts of the state. “AIKS demands immediate release of all arrested leaders and activists. The discredited   government is only exposing its fear of the Kisan mobilisation by this act,” the statement said, adding that democratic protest cannot be stifled by such repression.
 
 The statement recalled that after the prolonged protest by farmers in Sikar district last September, the Raje government acceded to all demands of farmers, including loan waiver, grant of remunerative prices, procurement and pension. The government later went back on these promises, the statement said, forcing the farmers to mobilize again for an indefinite ‘Mahapadav’ at Jaipur from February 22. 
 
 In her budget speech, the chief minister had only announced loan waiver of up to Rs50,000 of small and marginal farmemrs who had availed loan from cooperative banks till September last year.   leaders said that only a small number of farmers stood to benefit from this waiver.
 
 AIKS said that despite these arrests, farmers will continue to march to the state capital. AIKS national president Ashok Dhawale and joint secretary   will arrive in Jaipur to express solidarity with Rajasthan’s farmers, the statement said.
 
 
