PUNE: A senior citizen with breathlessness upon exertion and dry cough that lasts longer than eight weeks should consult a doctor. More than a weather change related condition, these are early warning signs of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a progressive and fatal lung disease.

 Experts said the number of IPF cases have increased by 30-40% over the last 10 years in Pune. They attributed the significant rise to smoking among Puneites and high pollution levels. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Besides, people working in occupations including farming,  ,   and metal fumes are also at a higher risk to develop the disease.
 
 “Earlier, I would see one or two patients of IPF every week a decade ago. Now, I see four to five patients every week. There has been 30 to 40% rise in IPF cases in Pune in 10 years,” chest physician   said.
 
 Since the symptoms are common, they are easily mistaken for cardiac disease, bronchitis, asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases.
 
 “In order to ensure that a maximum number of IPF cases are reported and diagnosed early, patients with respiratory disorders must get checked for IPF. It is also crucial for all diagnosed patients to visit their doctors regularly and adhere to the treatment for a better quality of life,” Modi said.
 
 The disease is more common in men than women. “Besides, it is more prevalent in older people (60 years and above) as it is known to usually affect middle-aged and older adults aged 40-70 years,” he added. The cause of the disease is yet to be discovered. However, it has also been suggested that genetics and diabetes can play a role in the development of IPF, Modi said.
 
 A simple x-ray is unable to pick the disease even at an advanced stage. “A high resolution CT scan can detect the disease,” he said. Current treatments can only reduce the progression of IPF. There is no treatment available as yet that can smoothen the scarring from the lung. The last resort is a lung transplant, Modi added.
 
 The average survival time of the IPF patients is about 3-5 years after the diagnosis. “Hence, early diagnosis of IPF is of extreme importance as it will help reduce the effects of the symptoms, the progression of the disease and possibly the life span of the individual,” Modi said.
 
 Chest physician   said marked improvement in diagnostic techniques and increased awareness among doctors were responsible for higher detection rate of the disease. “We have high-resolution computed tomography machines that pick up the disease. General awareness and knowledge have also increased among doctors. We are able to carry out lung biopsies now which was non-existent a decade ago,”   added.
 
 
