NEW DELHI: A court-appointed panel to probe the November 21, 2017, violence against inmates in   recommended on Wednesday that   should be registered against the security personnel involved. In a report filed in the Delhi high court, the fact finding committee named members of the Tamil Nadu special police (TSP) as those who should be booked. They have already been suspended since the incident.

 The committee, which examined 49 witnesses, called for further investigation to identify other policemen involved and informed the bench of Acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar that it was given CCTV footage which was “over-written” hampering its inquiry into the incident.
 
 “It is amply clear from the evidence produced before this committee that the inmates lodged in blocks C and F of the high security ward of Central Jail no 1 were subjected to brutal beatings by TSP personnel on the night of 21.11.2017. The CCTV footage of the verandah of the two blocks, medical reports and the testimony of inmates and jail officials indicates that the inmates were subjected to violence,” the report said.
 
 The committee of district judge Brijesh Sethi, professor Mrinal Sethi from   and advocate Sumeet Verma said that “lathis, batons, badminton racquets and buckets were used to beat the inmates. One of them, Ahtesham, was kicked repeatedly even after he fell unconscious.”
 
 While setting up the fact finding panel, the HC had termed as “very disturbing” the attack on the inmates. The committee, in its findings, also said that the inmates were beaten up without any justifiable reason. It undertook an extensive exercise by physically visiting the inmates and recorded statements of 49 inmates.
 
 Based on the testimonies, the committee zeroed in on seven personnel of the TSP who beat up the inmates and noted that multiple versions were given by the TSP personnel on why they resorted to violence, with none justifying the unprovoked assault. “The committee rejects all these versions. Even if anti-India slogans were raised, beating the inmates was not the course of action to be employed,” it further noted.
 
 HC is hearing a PIL by advocate Chinmay Kanojia, who has alleged that his client Shahid Husuf, who is being investigated by the National Investigation Agency and undergoing trial, was beaten up without any reason by the Tihar Jail staff.
 
 
