BHOPAL: The   has ruled that a wife has the right to know her  . A division bench made the observation while hearing a plea filed by Sunita Jain, who believes she deserves higher maintenance from her estranged husband, Pawan Jain, a senior BSNL employee. 

 
 A lower court had rejected her petition to see her husband's payslip. She moved HC, and a single-judge bench upheld the order on the ground that someone's salary can't be disclosed under Right to Privacy. But on May 15, a division bench comprising Justice S K Seth and Justice Nandita Dubey overturned the earlier HC order.
 
 According to the court order, Sunita was receiving a maintenance allowance of Rs 7,000. She believed her husband's salary was over Rs 2 lakh a month and thought she deserved more. An advocate herself, she filed an application in district court, seeking Pawan's payslip but her application was rejected. Then, she tried to get it through RTI but was denied. Finally, Central Information Commission (CIC) allowed her petition and ordered BSNL in July 2007 to provide her Pawan's payslip, but Pawan challenged the order in high court.
 
 HC quashed the CIC order, prompting Sunita to move HC again. A two-judge bench on May 15 overturned the order and said that the Supreme Court order in Girish Ramchandra Deshpande Vs CIC, on the basis of which the single-bench had quashed the CIC order, was of a different nature. "In this case, it's the wife who wishes to know the exact salary of her husband and she has a right to it," the judges ruled. 
 
 Sunita told TOI that she sought maintenance after her husband served a divorce notice in 2007. 
 
 "Since CrPC provided for a maximum maintenance allowance of Rs 3,000, I settled for that amount. My husband didn't appear in court and decision was ex-parte. I filed an application, seeking pay details of my husband but it was dismissed. He is an officer of Indian Telecom Service (ITS) and his department, too, refused to part with information under RTI. CIC, which ordered that information be furnished to me, was categorical in saying that salary is not personal information and should not only be given to me but also put on the net, so that is goes public," she said.
 
 Pawan Jain told TOI that it's a "dispute between Right to Information and Right to Privacy". "RTI is not for a wife to know her husband's salary, its provisions are invoked in the interest of larger public interest. A nine-judge bench has recently held Right to Privacy as a fundamental right. And, when she is fighting legal battles against me for 23 years, how could she expect me to share my personal information with her? I will go to Supreme Court against the order," he said.
 
 
