Indore: Amidst the ongoing examinations of the final year BA and B Com students of Mata Jijabai Govt PG College, the students are also witnessing thefts.

 During the exams, the students are asked to keep their bags outside the library. And even though the area is under CCTV coverage, the cameras are not functional, making it easier for the thieves to make away with valuables, especially mobile phones.
 
 “There have been instances when the bags and other belongings were stolen from the classrooms, but, the number has risen during the examination,” said BA final year student Shweta Sahu, one of the victims.
 
 "My wallet was picked while I was in the   hall. Apart from losing Rs 1500, I lost my important documents," she said.
 
 While BA final year student   lost her bag and cellphone, B Com final year student Nikita Malik lost her wallet which had Rs1000 and other documents. Apart from Sahu, Gable, and Malik, there have been five to six other instances when the valuables including mobile phone, cash, and other documents of the students were stolen.
 
 "Not everyone wants to come on record as they are scared of the repercussions of the complaints as mobiles are not allowed during exams," said Malik, who along with other students went to the principal to inform her about the occurrence.
 
 While the students said that the authorities are not cooperating, principal Dr Sumitra   said, the students informed about the incidents only yesterday.
 
 Nearly a dozen of girls came with one application about the thefts, she said. "Although there is always someone taking care of the bags, I have asked the teachers and peons to increase the inspection," said Waskel, who has also put up a notice.
 
 But, even if teachers stand near the bags, nobody will be able to know if the girls are picking their own bags or someone else's, she said.
 
 Pointing towards the rules that are to be followed during exams, Waskel said, even after the students are informed not to bring cell phones or extra material (which is not required) during exams, they bring. "We have nearly 10 landlines in the college and in case of emergency the students can use these telephones," she further added.
 
 Talking about the CCTV's, Waskel said, there are a few cameras which are not working as some wires got damaged due to heavy vehicles, however, the authorities have been informed for the repairs. 
 
 
