LUCKNOW: The BJP averted the prospect of a direct contest with a united opposition in   when it announced only seven nominees for the upper house from UP on Sunday. The saffron party had already announced the name of finance minister   as its candidate from UP.

 In all, 10 RS seats are scheduled to get vacant from UP. The SP has earlier announced the candidature of Jaya Bachchan for the RS, and has decided to support BSP nominee Bhim Rao Ambedkar, a dalit. The seven BJP candidates announced on Sunday are: Ashok Bajpai, Harnath Singh Yadav and Vijay Pal Singh Tomar, Sakal Deep Rajbhar, Kanta Kardam, Anil Jain, GVL Narsimha Rao and Harnath Singh Yadav.
 
 
 Now, until an ‘Independent’ candidate jumps into the fray at the last minute on Monday, there would be no election. With just 10 candidates in fray for 10 seats, there would not be any contest between the BJP and a united opposition and all the candidates are likely to be declared elected after scrutiny on March 14, UP Vidhan Sabha sources said.
 
 The decision of BJP and its allies not to field an additional candidate, despite having additional 28 votes, came a day after Congress, too, announced its support for the BSP in the Rajya Sabha elections, triggering fresh initiative to form a grand alliance ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 With 19 MLAs, BSP was not in a position to send a single representative to the RS without the support of SP and Congress. Not surprisingly, BSP chief Mayawati announced her support to the SP in the by-elections for Gorakhpur and Phulpur, in lieu of SP support to her party candidate in the RS polls.
 
 
 State industrial development minister   (C) and power minister Shrikant Sharma receive Union finance minister and BJP’s UP nominee for Rajya Sabha Arun Jaitley at Lucknow airport on Sunday
 
 
 
 
 The Congress, with  , and the Ajit Singh led Rashtriya Lok Dal, with one MLA, too, came in support of the BSP candidate. Given the total strength of the opposition, the BSP could have managed to garner 38 votes.
 
 “By not fielding its ninth candidate, BJP has not allowed the Opposition parties to show their combined strength. Now, BSP candidate is likely to sail through without election,” said a political analyst, adding “besides, there were fair chances that a united opposition could have outnumbered the BJP's additional candidate.” In 2016 RS elections, BJP had supported an Independent candidate Preeti Mahapatra, who eventually lost.
 
 Of the seven candidates announced on Sunday, there are three turncoats: Ashok Bajpai and Harnath Singh Yadav have defected from SP. Bajpai quit his Vidhan Parishad seat last year to join BJP. He belongs to Hardoi and is seen as an arch-rival of SP leader Naresh Agarwal in local politics. He has been preferred over some party loyalists like   and Laxmikant Bajpai, who were also among contenders. Yadav, from Etah, had defected before 2014 Lok Sabha polls. The other outsider is Tomar, though he joined the party after quitting Janata Dal long ago — when Rajnath was the CM.
 
 Kanta Kardam, a dalit, lost the mayor election Meerut last year, but has been rehabilitated by the party. Sakaldeep Rajbhar is from Ballia in eastern UP. The party is trying to project a Rajbhar leader to counter the party's alliance partner SBSP chief Om  , who has been showing his rebellious streak of late.
 
 Anl Jain is national general secretary and in charge of BJP's Haryana and Chhattisgarh units. A well-known face on TV channels, GVL Narsimha Rao is a pollster, author and now national spokesperson of the party.
 
 
 
