MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district police who are investigating the murder of  , have revealed that   Karthik, an engineering dropout and colleague of the victim, had purchased the knife by paying Rs 30 to commit the murder. He then sharpened the knife at a carpenter’s shop.

 Police sources revealed that Karthik, who is now cooling his heels in jail, had pre-planned the murder and took time to execute it. Karthik   the young girl, who was a BSc student, after she rejected his proposal. After stabbing her, the accused tried to commit suicide by slitting his wrist. The incident took place in Sullia on Tuesday evening.
 
 The investigating officer said on condition of anonymity on Tuesday, that the preparation to murder the victim commenced in the morning. It is alleged that he bought the knife to commit the crime from a shop in Car Street in the afternoon, after which he got it sharpened at a carpenter’s shop, and then went to the college to murder the victim. However, he was unable to find his victim. He had planned to kill her in the classroom. 
 
 Karthik had kept a close watch on the victim’s movements, and found that she had left early on that day. He found her near Sullia town, and immediately went and stabbed her nearly six times in the stomach, said police sources.
 
 Sources said Karthik’s feelings for Akshatha were one-sided. He had expressed his feelings for her, but she did not respond positively and ignored him. He was turned down again and again by the victim. She even once threatened to complain to the principal about his behaviour. Karthik also pestered the victim on social media, said sources.
 
 A source said another reason for Karthik to take the extreme step was that he was not happy, as the victim had allegedly humiliated him in front of friends, for turning down his proposal.
 
 The victim is survived by an elder sister and her parents. She was cremated on Wednesday at Shantinagar near Mulleria in Kasaragod.
 
 The   on Wednesday held a candlelight march, condemning the murder.
 
 
