LUCKNOW: Apparently enthused by the soft Hindutva line taken by   chief   ahead of the Gujarat elections,   chief Akhilesh Yadav seems to be following the same by declaring a pension for   artists, those who recite Ramayana in villages and for other such folk artists if and when his party is voted to power. 

 Speaking exclusively to TOI, the former chief minister said he was not in favour of   stars and professional models being invited to be presented as Lord Ram and Sita as the BJP government did in Ayodhya during  .
 
 "Samajwadi Party believes that traditional artists who perform the roles of Lord Ram, Sita and   should be promoted on such religious occasions. I have seen that poor artists who perform Ramlilas in rural areas during Duessehra and Diwali get very paltry remuneration," said Akhilesh.
 
 He said his party has demanded that the BJP government gives them pension for their sustenance. If the BJP does not announce this, Akhilesh said, when his party would come to power, it would give regular stipend and pension to such artists. 
 
 "They have been enthralling generations for decades but remain unsung. We will respect them," he said. 
 
 The former chief minister was also in favour of a pension to those who recite Ramayana in rural areas. 
 
 "Thousands of people struggle to earn their livelihood by singing Ramayana. But they have no permanent source of income. Samajwadi Party would give pension to such singers," said Akhilesh. 
 
 The plans are a major shift from Samajwadi Party's policies which have so far been perceived pro-Muslim. The BJP has exploited this image in elections and defeated it repeatedly since 2014. The announcements are also a departure from party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav's line of being pro-Muslim. He frequently recalls the firing at karsewaks in Ayodhya on his government's orders in 1991. Akhilesh seems to be taking a more balanced approach. 
 
 A life-sized bronze statue of Lord Krishna is under construction in Saifai, Etawah, and will be unveiled before the next general elections.
 
 
