KOCHI: Land acquisition for developing NH66, which connects Thiruvananthapuram and  , will be completed by August 2018. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting attended by Union minister for road transport and highways   and chief minister   in Kochi on Saturday. Chief secretary   said that the government considered various aspects like environmental concerns, population density and finalized the land that will be acquired for highway development. 

 PWD principal secretary Kamala Vardhana Rao said: "It requires more than Rs 7.50 crore/hectare to acquire land to develop Thalappady-Chengala Road in Kasaragod. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will provide funds and in return 35 acres, identified at Kasaragod, will be given to   for developing a multimodal logistics park."
 
 Also, NHAI will undertake the reconstruction of Paloli bridge in Kasaragod and Moorad in Kozhikode. "All road development projects undertaken in Kerala will be included in Bharatmala project and fast-tracked," he said. Kazhakkoottam-Mukkola Road, Kochi-Madurai, Kollam-Theni, Thrissur-Walayar projects are part of Bharatmala project.
 
 There was also a discussion to relocate Kumbalam toll plaza. Ernakulam district collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla informed that government land has been identified near the existing toll plaza. He said that if toll plaza is relocated there, expansion activities will not lead to displacement of residents. The minister directed NHAI to include state government representatives to analyse this plan.
 
 Antony said steps are being initiated to develop water transport and system and Gadkari assured support for the same.
 
 Regarding the development of a ramp at Thiruvananthapuram airport, the Union minister said that Centre will provide the entire project cost (Rs 140 crore). Also, Thiruvananthapuram ring road project will be fast-tracked; Centre and state will equally share the total project cost. Gadkari issued instructions to stop land registration activities in this region and finalize the alignment.
 
  
 
 
  But, Gadkari also said that though Centre is willing to fund infrastructure projects in Kerala, land acquisition continued to be a hurdle. He was delivering the presidential address during the inauguration of LuLu Group's Bolgatty International Convention Centre and Grand Hyatt in Kochi. 
 
 During his speech, he congratulated chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan's approach in improving infrastructure. However, talking about road project implementation, Gadkari said: "I'm willing to give a lot of money to Kerala, but what happens is that it stops at the last stage of land acquisition, which is tough. But, the chief minister is taking a keen interest in the issue."
 
 Gadkari added that Centre will never mix development with politics. "We are against the discrimination based on language/community and our concept of development is based only on mankind. For us, economic growth is more important than anything else," he said. 
 
 While talking about the difficulty MA Yusuffali, the founder of LuLu Group, faced in completing the convention centre project, Vijayan said, "Who is spared from the trying times of completing a project? To me, confronting problems has become a part of life. Such private initiatives will result in development and bring people from other parts of the world and create jobs. We should support such projects. Our view should be the same for all developmental projects," he said.
 
 Minister for tolerance in UAE, Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan spoke about the social progress Kerala has achieved, especially in education and healthcare.
 
  He also lauded the tolerance of the state government. Deputy prime minister of the Kingdom of Bahrain Sheikh Khalid bin Abdulla Al Khalifa talked about the contribution of expat Malayalis to the economic growth of his country.
 
 
