Aurangabad: As residents of Naregaon and surrounding villages continue to oppose dumping of garbage in their vicinity, the mayor has convened a meeting of all corporators on Tuesday to discuss the crisis of space for dumping the city’s garbage.

 Meanwhile, the civic administration has started dumping solid waste at a space created on the Central Naka campus.
 
 Speaking to TOI mayor   said no solution has so far been found to the crisis. “Teams of civic officials have been dispatched to at least three different places to inspect and identify the new dumping ground,” he said.
 
 “I have also convened a meeting of all corporators on Tuesday to discuss the crisis and take a decision. We want to take all the corporators into confidence to tackle the emergency faced by the civic body in view of the strong resistance put up by the Naregaon residents,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the civic sources said that the   ( ) has a waste emergency at its door as the plan B of the civic body to dispose of the municipal waste has miserably failed.
 
 The villagers around Naregaon dumping yard stopped trucks from entering the site in line with their previously given ultimatum.
 
 The AMC had then decided to take the municipal waste to Babhulgaon, a village at Paithan Road. Five to six garbage trucks were unloaded at the site identified by the civic body in the presence of mayor Nandkumar Ghodele on Friday. However, as soon as the waste was dumped, the people of   gathered and resisted any more trucks from entering the site.
 
 Sources also said the administration should have taken a decision in this regard and brought in waste disposal machines that were being discussed for quite some time. They also said that Naregaon residents had given the ultimatum four months ago, but the administration slept over the warning. If the situation continued entire city would start stinking.
 
 They also pointed out that if the municipal commissioner could make use of his special powers and appoint a labour contractor, why was he not taking a decision in the larger interest of the city under the same powers.
 
 “Foul smell has already started emanating from the Central Naka area where the garbage laden vehicles were being unloaded. If no solution was found within a day or two entire the city would face this problem. This might lead to spread of different sorts of sicknesses among the residents,” one of the sources said. 
 
 
