HYDERABAD: With the  , residents of some areas in the city are a worried lot. Still haunted by the   when many of their homes and surroundings were inundated - several roads were inaccessible for days - they fear that they might be forced to relive the trauma yet again. Reason: work related to   in these localities is progressing at a snail's pace. 

 
 Particularly concerned are those living in places such as Road No. 2, Mallikarjuna Nagar (Malkajgiri), Ranjan Bowli in Falaknuma and   in Lingojiguda division of LB Nagar. Residents here rue how they have been suffering every monsoon for the last one decade.
 
  
  
 
 Malkajgiri residents had even submitted a representation to Prime Minster Narendra Modi through the official public grievance portal, but the matter is far from being resolved. In their letter, residents highlighted how the overflow from a small outlet was leading to local flooding. The outlet is located under the railway tracks and falls under the jurisdiction of the South Central Railway (SCR). 
 
 "Soon after our submission on the portal, the additional divisional railway manager P V Sai Prasad surveyed the outlet in February. And while we were assured that it was the final inspection and that the problem will be fixed immediately, nothing has moved on the ground so far," said C R Vijay Kumar, a resident of Mallikarjuna Nagar. 
 
 "Apart from waterlogging, the mixing of rainwater with sewage water is a serious sanitation issue that can have severe health implications," he added. Around 200 houses primarily in this colony, apart from surrounding pockets such as Jothi Nagar, Hanumanpet extension and Anagar, are adversely impacted by this outlet.
 
 Similarly hit are residents of Renuka Colony in Rajan Bowli, where uneven and dug-up roads have resulted in massive water logging. "People have dug roads to connect their domestic sewage lines with the main line, but haven't restored them. As a result, we have been suffering for years, with rain water getting stagnant near our houses," said Ram Sundar Lal, a resident of the area, sharing how the menace has affected 50 families.
 
 When asked, GHMC authorities maintained that work on these issues is on track. "Identification and rectification of waterlogging points is underway. Nala widening work is also being taken up. Other wings of GHMC too are working on preparing for the monsoon," said Bharati Hollikeri, zonal commissioner (Khairatabad), GHMC.
 
 
