Nagpur: The CBSE’s latest decision to scrap its uniform assessment system for Std VI-VIII seems to be the result of strong objections from the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR). Without citing any reason, the board had on January 22 issued a three-line circular declaring that uniform assessment plan has been ‘repealed’ for Std VI-VIII (the scheme continues for Std IX).

 While CBSE was silent on the details, Priyank Kanoongo, member of NCPRC (RTE & Education), said the NCPCR believed the central board had exceeded its brief. “CBSE was indulging in what we defined as ‘academic discrimination’. Academic matters related to students till Std VIII have to be handled as per the National Curriculum Framework and the nodal authority for it is National Council for Educational Research and Training (NCERT). When you deviate from the laid down policies, the results are that books of private publishers land up in bags of children, which not only adds to the cost for parents but also to the weight the child has to carry each day on his back.”
 
 So, if CBSE did step on NCERT’s toes, why did Kanoongo object? “NCPCR is the monitoring agency for RTE in the country. You are noticing it because we are taking a stand now, for the benefit of children. In fact, such a stand should have been taken long ago, saving children a lot of trouble,” said Kanoongo.
 
 Regardless of him taking a tough stand on the issue, Kanoongo says he appreciates CBSE’s gesture. “We welcome this decision of CBSE, as it is in the best interest of the children of our country. CBSE’s role in nation’s education system is very important and we appreciate its good practices,” said Kanoongo.
 
 He added that every organization must stick to its mandate for smooth functioning of the system. “Everything is defined under the law, guidelines, policies. CBSE’s job is to conduct the board exam for affiliated schools. Period. If there is an issue related to curriculum, the NCERT will take care of it. We are there to ensure the rights of the child are not compromised,” said Kanoongo.
 
 TOI sought an official statement from CBSE regarding this development. Till the time of going to press, no reply had been received.
 
 Schools too are eagerly awaiting further clarification from CBSE. A principal said, “The circular just says that something has been cancelled for Std VI-VIII. Fine, but what now? Are we supposed to go back to CCE system, where just half portion was taught at one time, or should it be the traditional board system where entire course is taught?”
 
 Some senior academicians associated with CBSE for over two decades say the latest circular literally means ‘do it yourself’. A senior principal said, “It’s open to interpretation, but I am convinced it does not mean going back to CCE system, because that does not exist in Std X anymore. So, whatever pattern a school decides has to be consistent with what students will ultimately follow for board exam.”
 
 Considering this decision has come very late in the academic session, the confusion is compounded. “We have been trying to get answers from the Chennai regional office but nothing has come out of it so far. I have heard that CBSE will issue a circular to clarify things,” said another principal.
 
 
