LUCKNOW: A day after Ambedkar Mahsabha's president Lalji Prasad Nirmal announced that chief minister   would be given the first 'Dalit Mitra' (Friend of Dalits) award, rift in the Dalit outfit surfaced on Thursday with many senior members questioning the intent behind such a move. 

 The  's two founding members -   and SR   - called for an Annual General Meeting (AGM) to take disciplinary action against Nirmal, saying he had overstepped his brief by announcing an award for a CM during whose government several cases of Dalit atrocities were reported.
 
 "There is immense anger among Dalits because of atrocities inflicted on them during Yogi's rule. Constituting an award and giving it to Yogi will only rub salt into their wound," Darapuri, a retired IPS, told TOI.
 
 There is anger among Dalits against whom cases have been lodged and even NSA has been slapped, he said. Bhim Sena chief Chandrashekhar was arrested and booked under the National Security Act after Saharanpur caste violence in May 2017, he added.
 
 Retired IAS officer, Harish Chandra said the decision to constitute such an award was "arbitrary", since it was not discussed with the founding members. 
 
 "The Mahasabha was formed to spread the ideas and principles of BR Ambedkar, and not to serve personal interests of anyone," said Chandra, in an apparent jibe at Nirmal.
 
 "Our members have been seeking records from the Mahasabha, but its present administration hasn't yet responded," he said. Chandra said there were more than 100 members, many from government service, when the Ambedkar Mahasabha was formed in 1990.
 
 Both Chandra and Darapuri are lifetime members.
 
 Nirmal, however, said there was nothing wrong in conferring 'Dalit Mitra' award on Yogi. "CM Yogi is a friend of all citizens of the state. He is therefore a friend of Dalits also," said Nirmal, who retired from the UP secretariat before becoming the Mahasabha president in 2013. He also dismissed allegations of having "personal interests". 
 
 "Rumours are being spread that I am seeking a berth in the UP  . I am a committed member of the Mahasabha which runs on donations and with the blessings of Dalits," he said. The award is to be conferred on Yogi on April 14, the birth anniversary of Ambedkar.
 
 
