By- Basabdatta Sarkar

 KOLKATA: An arts graduate who used to accompany her daughter to school every day in their private car, took up driving and started running a carpool service some 12 years ago. Now, 52-year-old   may possibly be the city’s only woman pooled car driver. And the parents of the kids she ferries to and from school are more than happy with the service.
 
 After seeing the shoddy condition of the usual pooled cars with kids packed into cramped spaces, as well as the way the operators handled business, she decided to take matters into her own hands.
 
 “I was shocked with how children were packed into cars and were forced to travel in cramped spaces. I never wanted my daughter to travel like that. I was also dissatisfied with the way our chauffeur drove. To make things worse, he was extremely irregular as well. So I learned to drive and started taking my daughter to school myself,” said Bhattacharjee, a resident of Karunamoyee in  .
 
 Parents of some of her friends in Tollygunge also asked her to drop off their children to their schools and offered a fee car sharing fee. Today, Bhattacharjee ferries 30-odd children and earns enough to take care of her family.
 
 “It was a tough decision to execute for a middle-class homemaker. In the beginning, fellow drivers would frown at me and some even tried to bully me. But things stopped after I punched one of them in the face after he tried to hit my car with his. Now things have changed. Other drivers respect me and so do the parents of the kids I ferry,” she said.
 
 Her day starts at 6am and ends in the evening after she ferries students of Future Foundation, National Public School and Sarada Ashram in six different shifts. She never takes more than six-seven children in her Maruti Omni and ensures all of them wear seatbelts. She also keeps a first aid box and a fire extinguisher in her car, along with water bottles and emergency phone numbers.
 
 “Kids feel safe with her and so do we. She is a very safe driver and takes good care of our children,” said Manasi Das, mother of one of the kids Bhattacharjee ferries.
 
 “I am happy with what I do. The children whom I ferry also love me,” she said, adding that she has been saving up to buy a bigger and safer car.
 
 
