VADODARA: Twelve students from the city have become company secretaries (CS) as the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) on Sunday declared the results of the CS executive and professional programmes, the exams for which were held in December last year. 

 Interestingly, like the previous year, girls have continued to outshine boys as eight of the 12 who qualified in the professional course this time were girls. 
 
 “I wanted to pursue CS to gain expertise in law. My aim is to start practice in chartered accountancy (CA) along with my fiancé who is also a CA,” said Ankita Shah, who has completed her M Com studies from M S University’s Faculty of Commerce and is working hard to clear one group to clear her CA studies. 
 
 “I will first work as CS with some firm before starting my own practice,” said  , whose father is a bank employee and mother a homemaker.
 
 Chokshi had already completed her B Com and LLB studies from   before she started pursuing CS. 
 
 Hailing from Gujarati medium, Bhumi Vaidya, another girl student who cleared her CS studies said that it was initially tough for her to cope with studies. “But consistent hard work has helped me in clearing the professional course,” said Vaidya, whose father is an advocate while mother is a teacher in government school. 
 
 It is just for the sake of her studies that   from Bharuch is staying with her uncle in the city after clearing her B Com studies from Bharuch’s Narmada College with a gold medal. “I will complete my training and later opt for a job,” said Mehta, who is simultaneously also pursuing LLB.
 
 While girls stole the show, there were boys like  , a working professional, who was pursuing CS to improve his profile. 
 
 “As I am working in the accounts and finance section, CS will help me improve both my profile and knowledge,” said Maunish, who had already completed his CA in 2009 and is working with GSFC as deputy manager. 
 
 Susheela Maheshwari, vice-chairman of Vadodara chapter of ICSI’s western India regional chapter, said, “Of the total 182 students who had appeared in module I of professional programme in new syllabus, 15 have passed the exam. Similarly, 12 of the 159 students who had appeared in module II and 20 out of 158 who had appeared in module III have cleared their exams.” 
 
 “In the executive programme, 28 out of 383 students who had appeared in module I have cleared their exams while in module II, 29 out of 276 students have cleared their exams,” said D S Mahajani, secretary of Vadodara chapter.
 
 
