Visakhapatnam: Is the   in your house full? Do you need to empty it? Then be ready to shell out something between Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000 per trip. It’s become a costly affair in the city. 

 K Suresh Kumar (name changed) from Simhachalam paid Rs 40,000 to get his septic tank cleaned recently. He alleged that the cleaners did not do a good job but still charged a hefty amount. P Jeeva, president of Visakhapatnam Septic Tank Cleaners’ Association, said they usually charge Rs 2,000 to 2,500 per tank in the core city. If the place is in the outskirts like Tagarapuvalasa, our men charge Rs 500 extra as transportation charges. “I don’t think the figures are true. The so-called hefty charges could be due to other reasons, like besides cleaning the tank they might have been asked to repair the tank walls, or other related work as per the demands and requirements of the customer,” Jeeva said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Dr A Hemanth, chief medical officer of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), admitted that he had heard about the high charges being levied by some septic tank cleaners in the city. He said the civic body shall seize the vehicles of the tank cleaning company if they come to know about it or if a specific complaint is filed.
 
 Dr Hemanth further said that they would be issuing licences to septic tankers as per the new national policy on septate management under the Swachh Bharat Mission. “Around 20 septic tankers have been given permission by our department recently. They are supposed to collect the septate. We have also earmarked three sewerage treatment plants where they have to dump the solid waste,” he added. He said the city has around 60 to 65 septic tankers, and the vehicles need to be licensed by the corporation. 
 
 “We will be able to officially operate authorised septic tankers from the beginning of the next fiscal (April 2018). Till then, we are preparing the ground to ensure that requisite arrangements like issuance of licence, identification of septage management among others are ready,” Hemanth added.
 
 
