HYDERABAD: Police have identified the suave crook who stole 12 lakh gold ornaments from a newly-married couple's room at Park Hyatt hotel, as a Mumbai-based serial offender. His tryst with crime reportedly started in 2003 with a theft at Taj Hotel in  .

 
  
 
 The suspect has been identified as Jayesh, 43, from Andheri, Mumbai. Jayesh, a native of Ahmedabad, stole ?12 lakh worth gold ornaments belonging to city businessman Venkat's wife by entering their ‘honeymoon suit' at Park Hyatt hotel posing as their relative.
 
 Police checked the details of the suspect with the help of CCTV camera footage and identified that he stole ?7 lakh worth jewellery belonging to  , 54, a trader, and his wife Nirmala Devi, who were staying at Mercure hotel at Abids in 2014. A case was registered at the Abids police station.
 
 Police said Jayesh also stole lakhs of rupees worth gold from the room of   at SR Nagar in 2016 and a case was registered by SR Nagar police.
 
 In the Marigold Hotel heist, after getting access to the floor, he opened the room with a spoon picked up from hotel ballroom.
 
 In October, 2017, Jayesh committed theft of gold ornaments at a star hotel at Varun Beach, Visakhapatnam.
 
 When police checked the criminal record of the suspect, they discovered that Jayesh had committed his first crime in 2003 at Taj Hotel in Colaba, Mumbai. "He stole jewellery from a hotel room at Taj and escaped. He was arrested in that case and sentenced to fiveyear imprisonment," a Banjara Hills police official said.
 
 Subsequently, Jayesh also committed a theft at a star hotel in Chandigarh in 2013, but police were not sure if he was arrested in the case.
 
 After the theft at Park Hyatt hotel, police checked the CCTV camera footages and noticed Jayesh boarding a green auto. Cops could track the vehicle till  , where the auto turned towards Golconda Hotel. Police suspect that the offender might have stayed in a small hotel, where address proof is not required and left the city in private buses. "Jayesh reaches the star hotels during breakfast time and observes customers having complimentary breakfast. He gathers details of customers and selects a target," an investigating official said.
 
