PUNE: A sizeable percentage of students face difficulties just to reach their schools, according to a government study. 

 As per the recent National Achievement Survey (NAS) of government and government-aided schools, nearly 18% of Class III students and 16% of students from Classes V and VIII fall into this category, even as the state has decided to shut down more than 1,000 schools.
 
 In its ‘Long Road to Education’ series in January, TOI had reported several instances in which students had to walk several kilometres to attend daily classes in school, which were marked for closure. 
 
  
 Educationists have urged the state to take the NAS data into account and rethink its decision to shut 1,314 schools — most of which are in rural or remote areas — as it would only increase the dropout rate.
 
 A teacher from one school in Pune district — marked for closure — said the government needs to revise its list of schools after studying the situation on the ground. “There have been reports about villages where, if the local school shuts, the nearest school is too far or inaccessible. Such schools need to stay open,” the teacher said. 
 
 Education activist Matin   feels that a state like  , which is still grappling with issues such as out-of-school children and high dropout rates among girl, minority, and scheduled caste/tribe students, needs to keep as many schools open as possible. “If a nearby school shuts down, why would a parent who anyway thinks that going to school is useless send his/her child to a faraway school?” Mujawar said. 
 
 “Distances in rural areas are not how they appear aerially, as the area is mountainous. If nearby schools shut, it will impact girl-child education,” Mujawar added.
 
 “The government said it will transfer the child to another school nearby, but the state has (reportedly) shifted poor kids to schools outside a 1km radius,” said  , another educationist. 
 
 Kirnalli also touched upon promises made by state education minister  , of providing transport to such students. “No provision has been made yet,” he observed.
 
 
