PATNA: The   named Sanjay Paswan besides deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and health minister Mangal Pandey while JD(U) announced CM Nitish Kumar, Rameshwar Mahto and   as their candidates as the legislative council election for its 11 seats is scheduled to be held on April 26.   has made its spokesperson Prem Chandra Mishra as the party’s lone candidate. Paswan is a former Union minister and a prominent dalit face of the BJP.

 JD(U) state chief spokesperson and sitting MLC Sanjay Singh could not find a place in the list of party nominees. Deliberations on finalization of candidates were held at the residence of JD(U) state president Bashisth Narain Singh on Sunday. “I welcome the decision of party president. I will keep working for the party and don’t have any complaints,” Sanjay told reporters. 
 
 “Congress president Rahul Gandhi has approved the candidature of Prem Chandra Mishra as the party candidate for the biennial election,” AICC general secretary Mukul Wasnik said in a press release from Delhi.
 
 A visibly delighted Mishra said: “I am thankful to Congress president Rahul Gandhi ji for reposing faith in me by declaring my name for council polls. I will strongly present the party’s point of view in the legislative council and shall continue to work hard for the party.”
 
 The Election Commission of India on April 2 announced the dates for biennial election to 11 Bihar legislative council seats which will fall vacant on May 6. The term of 10 members of the  , including CM Nitish and SuMo, RJD national vice-president Rabri Devi and Mangal Pandey would end on May 6, while one seat had fallen vacant following the disqualification of senior JD(U) functionary Narendra Singh on January 6, 2016.
 
 Rabri, her party state president Ram Chandra Purbey and Khurshid Mohsin have already filed their nomination papers from RJD while Santosh Manjhi, son of former CM and HAM-S chief Jitan Ram Manjhi has been accommodated by the RJD after they left the NDA and joined the grand alliance. Santosh has filed his nomination papers on RJD symbol, and not as HAM-S candidate. The last date for filing nomination papers is Monday (April 16).
 
 
