MADURAI: Deputy chief minister   on Monday said his government would need at least six months to restore the Veera   mandapam, the 407-year-old stone monument that was charred in the inferno inside the Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple.

 Visiting the accident site in Madurai on Monday, Panneerselvam steered clear of queries that wanted him to put a number to the losses incurred. 
 
 "It will be a costly repair work. But there are professionals and experts in such work who can lend a helping hand to the government. Since the work involves the (famous) temple, even private parties could be interested in sponsoring," said Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) - Madurai chapter convenor Aravind Kumar Sankar.
 
 Dating back to the 1600s, the Vasantharaya mandapam's structure predominantly comprises large blocks of stone. 
 
 According to temple authorities, the mandapam's pillars were in a corroded state. This discovery, which should have triggered fears about the structure's stability, was made in 2012, officials said. "The heat generated during the fire simply caused it to crumble. It should have been renovated much earlier when the corroded pillars were discovered," an official added.
 
 HR&CE department officials told TOI that they had not undertaken renovation work due to a pending case in the Madras high court. "Even the Pottramarai (Golden Lotus) tank renovation was stopped midway due to the case," an official, seeking anonymity, told TOI.
 
 Seasoned archaeologists like   find the authorities' attitude to conservation lackadaisical. "HR&CE does not understand the value of these structures. These were meant for religious purposes. Instead, they converted the mandapam into a commercial place for personal gains," said Nagaswamy, who was former director of the state archaeology department.
 
 C Santhalingam, another veteran archaeologist, told TOI that it was possible to rebuild the structure. "Blocks of stone are available and there are sculptors who can do a fine job of rebuilding," he said. 
 
 Sanna Ratnavel, an expert in advanced rock mechanics, said that a team of civil engineers would not fulfill the purpose. 
 
 "Civil engineers deal with concrete and would not have adequate knowledge of rock structures. The committee should ideally have both contemporary and traditional experts like stapathis and even sociologists," he said.
 
 Extensive evaluation lies ahead as Ratnavel said that prolonged heat exposure could have compromised pillars and the mandapam's foundation. 
 
 
