NAGPUR: A day after Nagpur University decided to lodge a police complaint against   regarding bogus mark sheets, and start disaffiliating his college CIIMC, more startling revelations have come to fore. It has now been revealed that   simultaneously pursued two degrees and a diploma in 1995-96, from two universities, long before the Kohchade scam was exposed on March 4, 1999.

 NU’s probe disclosed that Mishra was pursuing ‘masters of journalism’ from Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (BAMU), Aurangabad, in 1995-96. In the same period, he was registered as a LLB second year student at NU’s Dr Ambedkar Law College. He had also taken admission in the ‘postgraduate diploma in travel and tourism’ at NU’s department in the campus.
 
 “We could understand that he surrendered his bogus LLB mark sheets, to escape the stringent punishment in ‘bogus mark sheets and revaluation scam’. But there was a mystery why he surrendered the tourism diploma mark sheet, which he cleared in second division, and was conferred in January 1998 convocation,” VC SP Kane told TOI.
 
 After a deeper inquiry, it became clear he wanted to save his master’s degree, which had give him the status of professor in NU, and therefore expressed willingness to surrender the diploma. This was done with the view that his career in NU would be safe even if he was caught in the scam. “When we procured documents, we realized that he was simultaneously pursuing two degrees and a diploma in one academic year, thus brazenly flouting the rules. No student can simultaneously undergo a full time degree as well as diploma,” he said.
 
 Based on his master’s degree, Mishra had secured a job of lecturer at CIIMC, run by Institute of Educational Research and Development Affairs in March 1998, and became a board of studies (BOS) member. He was subsequently promoted to chairman’s post on the BOS, the VC informed.
 
 “We would be informing Marathwada University officials about Mishra’s misdeeds soon, with the request to cancel his master's degree as well,” Kane said.
 
 Mishra’s tenure as BOS chairman was short-lived as special court of AS Gattani, set up by Nagpur bench of Bombay high court to hear the Kohchade scam cases, convicted him as a beneficiary student and sentenced him to jail for 12 years and six months. Later, in July 2008, justice   at the HC acquitted him of offences under sections 420, 468, 471, 120(B), 409 of IPC, but maintained his conviction under Section 417 for cheating and reduced his jail term to six months.
 
 Then VC SN Pathan, however, never bothered to cancel Mishra’s status as ‘teacher’, despite his conviction. It was only after   took over as VC that Mishra’s appointment as a lecturer was cancelled on February 24, 2011. The HC upheld Sapkal’s order on August 3, 2012, which was maintained by the   in March last year.
 
 
