KOLKATA: Accused of preserving his mother’s corpse in a freezer for three years, Behala resident   had a quiet day at the   where he was sent for treatment on Thursday.

 The 46-year-old started his day with a breakfast of eggs and toast and then faced a three-hour questioning by doctors and experts. Majumdar was not questioned about the incident, but was made to speak on his personal life. He is yet to reveal any significant detail and will be questioned again on Tuesday, according to Ganesh Prasad, director of the hospital.
 
 
  
 “Majumdar has been cooperative and well-behaved so far. But it is still too early to quiz him on the incident. We will come to it gradually and are now allowing him to settle down. It will take at least 15 days to complete the questioning sessions and come to a conclusion on his mental state,” said Prasad. He added that the Behala resident is a schizophrenic but further details were needed for a complete assessment.
 
 On Saturday, Majumdar spent time with other inmates, occasionally chatting with them. He was never aggressive but remained ‘guarded’ in his ward. At 1pm, he had lunch comprising rice, dal and fish curry. He spoke to doctors in Bengali, unlike on Friday when he had been frequently lapsing into Russian while speaking to policemen after his arrest.
 
 “He spoke in a very sober tone and answered clearly. While we stuck to pointed questions, he, too was brief and precise. We queried him on his habits and lifestyle. He seemed to be quite forthcoming though it is still too early to say if his telling the truth. This is a slow process and it will continue,” said Prasad.
 
 Majumdar was questioned by a panel of six experts led by Prasad.
 
 Not much is expected to emerge from the initial sessions, said experts. “It takes time to pin down such psychological patients. They need to feel comfortable and secure to come out with details. At the same time, they must be gently persuaded to reveal the truth. This is a tricky proposition but the only way forward,” said a psychiatrist.
 
