NEW DELHI:   came from behind twice to hold the in-form   to an exciting 2-2 draw in their final league match of the   ( ) season four at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in New Delhi on Friday.

 Delhi, looking for a hat-trick of wins at home, were denied by Pune striker Emiliano Alfaro who scored two goals from the penalty spot, with the second equaliser coming in the 85th minute. Delhi, though ended the league with a six-match unbeaten run to finish at eighth spot with 19 points from 18 games.
 
 While Pune for the time being remained at second in the standings with 30 points.
 
 For the hosts,   scored two goals to take his season's tally to 13. It was the Nigerian's eight straight game on the scoresheet as he claimed a unique distinction of scoring against all the teams in the season.
 
 Delhi made as many as seven changes to their starting line-up from the last match against Mumbai City, which they won 5-1. Pune, on the other hand, made four changes from their last starting eleven. The captain's armband for Delhi was given to their prolific scorer Uche.
 
 With no pressure of points table, both teams played a free-flowing, attacking game from the start. The hosts controlled much of the play in the first ten minutes and took an early lead but it was negated almost immediately by the visitors.
 
 Delhi were awarded an early penalty in the ninth minute when Pune midfielder Ashique Kuruniyan clipped the heels of Lallianzuala Chhangte from behind inside the penalty box. Uche then calmly put the hosts in front a minute later from the penalty spot.
 
 Two minutes later, Pune earned their first corner of the match which turned into a penalty soon. While trying to win a header, Rafael Lopez was fouled by Delhi defender Simranjeet Singh from behind and the referee straightaway pointed to the penalty spot. Alfaro converted from the spot to make it 1-1.
 
 Not much action happened in the next quarter, before Arana's thunderous strike from outside the box went into the goal in the 27th minute. But to the dismay of the home fans, the referee disallowed the goal as the flag was already up for a foul by Uche against a Pune defender during the build-up.
 
 Delhi fans did not have to wait long for another goal though. In the 34th minute, Pune goalkeeper Vishal Kaith mistimed a pass to their defender and the ball was snatched by Delhi midfielder Nandhakumar S and he crossed it to Uche in front of an open goal. Uche tapped in the easiest of a goal to give the hosts the lead again.
 
 Three minutes before the half-time whistle, Simranjeet almost made it 3-1 for Delhi when he hit the crossbar with a thunderous long ranger.
 
 Delhi made an attacking start to the second half too. Chhangte got a chance in the 57th minute but his header near the far post hit the iron work after deflecting from the Pune keeper. Five minutes later, the midfielder get another chance on the left flank but he shot it straight to the goalkeeper from a close range.
 
 Soon, Pune got a chance to score the equaliser when Marko Stankovic, who got a cross from Kuruniyan, made a powerful shot only to see Delhi keeper Arnab Das making a great save. But the ball landed in front of Pune striker Alfaro instead, who unfortunately made a heavy touch to miss the golden opportunity.
 
 Delhi continued to search for another goal, instead of parking the bus. After a good move, Nandhakumar made a decent shot to the goal from the right of the box but it went just wide in the 70th minute.
 
 In the 83rd minute, Mirabaje's strike near the right post was saved by Pune keeper. A minute later, Delhi defender Mohammad Dhot made a mistake by tripping Alfaro in the penalty box and the ref made no hesitation to give both the yellow card and the penalty.
 
 Alfaro scored his second from the penalty spot as Pune got a late equaliser five minutes before time.
 
