GUWAHATI: Publication of the first draft of the   (NRC) has given fresh ammunition to political parties, each playing up identity politics to push its own agenda. 

 While West Bengal chief minister   said the exclusion of people from the first draft of the NRC was a "re-run of the anti-foreigner movement of the 1980s", Congress caught on to the issue and has been trying to regain its lost foothold in the Bengali-dominated   before the 2019 parliamentary election. 
 
 For both, the contest is with BJP, which had promised voters in the Barak Valley it would grant citizenship to Hindu refugees from Bangladesh. The gamble had paid off in 2016, when it won eight of the 15 seats in the Barak Valley. Congress managed to bag three seats and AIUDF got four seats. However, with the Barak Valley registering one of the lowest rates of inclusion in the draft NRC, an anxiety began surfacing, which Congress wanted to cash in on. Mamata, on the other hand, is consolidating the support base for Trinamool Congress by hitting out at the BJP-led government in Assam for its "conspiracy" to "drive out" Bengalis, in an obvious move to prevent the saffron party from making inroads into West Bengal.
 
 Congress has been firm in its stand that it is only working for the people's interests. "Is it a crime to question why so many names went missing from the first draft? We support NRC. But people have voted for us to raise a voice on their behalf and that is what we are doing," Congress legislator Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha said. He added, "We want to ask BJP why it is not speaking out against the exclusion of such a large number of names from the first draft. When people face problems, it is our duty as their representatives to stand by them."
 
 The update of the NRC is being supervised by the Supreme Court and the list that was released on December 31 midnight was the first draft. It included 1.9 crore names out of 3.29 crore. The state government and NRC update authorities have assured people that subsequent drafts will include the names of all legal citizens. "Congress is indulging in divisive politics despite the fact that the entire NRC process is being supervised by the Supreme Court. This is very unfortunate. When the first draft of NRC was released, Congress was worried its vote bank politics would be threatened. That is why it is creating such confusion among the people," BJP general secretary   said.
 
 
