KOLKATA: The   roads department is all set to undertake demolition of two houses, six makeshift shops and a garage located on the middle of the   connector to pave way for the two-way traffic on the entire stretch — from   police station to EM Bypass ( ). “All legal hurdles have been cleared and we are ready to undertake the demolition work,” said a   roads department official.

 According to sources in the KMC roads department, Ratan De, the member, mayor-in-council, has sanctioned the road-widening project to clear the traffic snarls at Shahidnagar, where the two-lane road becomes one lane because of encroachment on the greater part of the connector. “The demolition will start in another 10 days. We expect to complete it in three weeks. We will then start laying mastic asphalt on the road. The entire process will take a month. We hope to open the two-lane road to traffic by the third week of May,” a civic official said. According to a preliminary estimate, the civic body will need to spend more than Rs 1crore for the project.
 
 The KMC authorities had been struggling to clear a 50-metre stretch at Shahidnagar after the   connector was thrown open to traffic two decades ago. The KMC officials claimed that their efforts to persuade a couple of land owners, who had developed two houses on the plots, went in vain as they refused to accept the price of land the civic body had offered.
 
 However, the civic persuasion finally bore fruit in November last year when KMC offered them price as determined by the Inspector-General of Registration (IGR). “Besides owners of these two houses, there is an owner of a garage, whom the civic body top brass took in confidence three months ago after much persuasion,” informed a KMC roads department official.
 
 However, the project crossed the final hurdle when owners of half a dozen makeshift shops located adjacent to the houses agreed to shift. “It was a tough job as they initially refused to leave without compensation. Since they were encroachers, we had to work hard to persuade them,” a KMC official said. Locals, however, are happy with the decision. “Finally, the Shahidnagar stretch will become free of encroachment. The project will not only clear traffic snarls but also check road accidents in the area,” said  , a Shahidnagar resident.
 
