Guntur: The diarrhoea outbreak in Two Town area of   city has raised concerns over the quality of water being supplied by Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC). In the last few days, at least 60 to 70 people from AT Agraharam, Sampath Nagar, Vidya Nagar, Swarna Bharathi Nagar, NGO Colony, Tufan Nagar, Netaji Nagar were admitted to GGH and private hospitals with acute diarrhoea. 

 The dreaded disease has already spread to Lakshmipuram, Chaitanyapuri Colony, Hanumaiah Nagar and Vidya Nagar, with many of the locals going to private hospitals for treatment.
 
 Government sources said water is getting contaminated at the source near Prakasam Barrage and it is turning poisonous during its course from Vijayawada to Guntur. Further, poor maintenance of the main treatment plant at Takkellapadu has more or less rendered it useless. 
 
 When the diarrhoea cases first reported in One Town area, the senior officials blindly placed the blame on the supply channels in One Town. The water contamination theory was completely ignored.
 
 Following reports of faulty supply lines, the authorities started to repairing the water channels in in One Town area. Later, the GMC officials shutdown the water supply lines in One Town area for cleaning them with the super-chlorination process. At the time, overhead tanks were supplying water in the area. However, these steps could not check the diarrhoea outbreak. Sources said the water from Prakasam Barrage, which is supplied to Guntur city, is contaminated. 
 
 Further, it is not being properly treated at the Takkellapadu water plant. Recently, GMC top officials diverted water through an old channel in view of the repairs to Guntur channel, which may have led to the contamination of the water.
 
 The channel travels about 27 km before reaching the treatment plant at Takkellapadu in Guntur. En route, the drain water from a corporate hospital is said to be flowing into the drinking water channel near Mangalagiri. 
 
 Tadepalli drain water is said to be leaking into the drinking water channel and turning the water completely toxic. The improper maintenance of the main treatment plant is said to have further complicated the things.
 
 
