NEW DELHI: As Delhi government   to present its   in the   scheduled between March 16 and 28, the department of   said that   from April last year to February 2018 stood at Rs 23,420 crore. The department hopes to meet the target of Rs 26,000 crore once the revenue collection for March is added to this total at the end of the fiscal year.

 While the cumulative tax collection from state GST, IGST and VAT till February was higher than the total collection of Rs 22,790 crore in 2016-17, the department still defined the monthly growth rate of revenue as “average” and less than what was expected after the transition from the VAT regimes to the Goods and Services Tax regime. 
 
 Six months into the GST regime in November last year, Delhi’s tax collection growth fell for the first time. While the collection had increased 30% every month till October over the corresponding period in 2016-17, November saw a dip with the growth at just 8.93% of the collection in November 2016. A review convinced the tax department that the GST Council allowing relaxations in filing of returns and reverse charges as well as lowering tax rates on several items had led to the slowdown. These same factors may also have contributed to the below-expectation collections in December 2017 and January and February this year. 
 
 According to the department’s data, cumulative tax collection in December, including SGST, IGST and VAT levied on petroleum products and liquor, was Rs 2,049 crore. While this went up to Rs 2,243 crore in January, it was a mere Rs 1,888 crore in February.
 
 Officials pointed that while the monthly average tax collection is higher than what was collected during the same period last year, the growth rate was lower than expected. The department is studying the reasons, and officials feel that once the financial year ends, there will be a clearer picture of why the increase rate has remained “average”. The department will then consider measures required to step up growth rate. 
 
 On-the-ground checking of tax compliance has also taken a back seat because the tax department is focusing on helping traders smoothly move to the GST regime, said sources. In this light, the growth rate dip is considered to be temporary, and collections are likely to be back on track once the system starts becoming stabilised.
 
 
