NEW DELHI:   and shooter  , both former Commonwealth Games champions, on Tuesday questioned the Indian sporting authorities’ obsession to prefer foreign coaches - who are often paid much more - over Indian ones.

 
 
 
 Both were also critical of the government’s decision to appoint foreign coaches only at the senior level, while domestic coaches work tirelessly with young athletes at the junior and sub-junior levels.
 
 Akhil, the 2006 Melbourne   gold medallist, said: “In India, we have this tendency to run after foreign coaches without even knowing how qualified or well-informed they are about the country’s sporting culture. We get impressed with their style and language. We never bother to check with athletes whether they are comfortable communicating with these coaches, or whether they are facing any difficulty. I am not against hiring foreign coaches but it should not be at the expense of your own good talent (domestic coaches).
 
 
 
 The 37-year-old added: “I have always failed to understand this obsession with white skin. Is it to do with our colonial past? If the foreign coaches are so good then why are they not employed at the sub-junior level? Why are finished products handed to them? If I come into the national camp after winning the national title, am I not an almost finished product given to them?”
 
 Akhil’s comments came during a function organised here for conveying best wishes to the Indian contingent for the Gold Coast CWG, from April 4 to 15. While there wasn’t any trigger for Akhil to blast the authorities for hiring foreign coaches, his views mainly revolved around the Boxing Federation of India’s ( ) decision to drop men’s chief coach SR Singh and his women's team counterpart Shiv Singh from the Gold Coast-bound boxing contingent.
 
 “When MC   was national observer, she had raised objections about the presence of retired coaches in the national camp. They are well past their retirement age, I don't think there is anything wrong in leaving them out. We should encourage young coaches in India,” added the ‘national observer’ of Indian boxing.
 
 Echoing similar sentiments, 2002 CWG gold medallist trap shooter Moraad said, “I was asked before the 2010 CWG to coach Indian shooters. I said ‘I will do it if there’s no racist attitude'. Why should a foreign coach be paid more than an Indian coach of the same calibre? Why this discrimination?”
 
