WASHINGTON: In a display of machismo that was widely seen as juvenile and invited ridicule — and some alarm — across the world, US President Donald   boasted on Wednesday that he has a nuclear button on his desk that is “much bigger & more powerful” than the one on North Korean dictator   Jong-un’s desk, “and my Button works!”

 Trump’s tweet — which some commentators likened to a puerile schoolboy response — came after Kim declared earlier that “US should know that the button for nuclear weapons is on my desk. This is not blackmail but reality”.
 
 “North Korean Leader Kim Jong Un just stated that the ‘Nuclear Button is on his desk at all times’. Will someone from his depleted and food starved regime please inform him that Itoo have a Nuclear Button, but it is a much bigger & more powerful one than his, and my Button works!” Trump said in an early morning tweet, after apparently watching a TV show about Kim’s statement.
 
 The Trump tweet immediately launched a thousand quips, with caricatures, cartoons, and memes erupting on social media. “Your button is not big, your hands are just small,” responded one netizen on Twitter, while another asked, “Did Trump literally mean that his button is extra-large? Was there some concern that he might not be able to operate a regular sized button?”
 
 “Hey @Twitter, does trying to goad another nation into a nuclear conflict violate your terms of service??” the Indian-American comedianentertainer Aasif Mandvi asked Twitter, which Trump uses extensively to get his message across. At the Twitter headquarters in Bay Area, protesters beamed a message on the building – aimed at its CEO   – that read “@Jack is #Complicit.”
 
 “For all of you sharing this fragile orb and premising your tomorrows on the notion that no two men in key positions of authority could be so small, empty and stupid as to risk the mass immolation of tens of millions in an adolescent dickmeasuring contest…well, dream on, rubes,” read one gloomy message on Twitter.
 
 But most people took the tweet lightly or at least dismissively. Some regulars among the White House press corps pointed out that there was no nuclear button on the Presidential Resolute Desk and the only button it has is for Trump to call for his favourite drink – a Diet Coke, a dozen of which he is said to chug down each day.
 
 In fact, nuclear launch codes for the US President is contained in a mobile briefcase called “football” which is always carried by an aide wherever the President goes. The briefcase is not under the President’s direct control and it requires a series of steps to activate the launch.
 
 Some commentators have speculated that a firewall of senior aides may not even allow Trump to launch nuclear weapons without adequate justification, a situation reflected in two recent cartoons. In one of them, Trump is shown repeatedly asking if he can press a red nuclear button on his desk and aides repeatedly telling him no. In another cartoon, aides are pinning back Trump’s arms as he strains to reach for the button. These are not images that enhance the US President’s image in the eyes of the world or endear him to many Americans. One former   administration official, Eliot Cohen, said the president’s pronouncement was “spoken like a petulant 10-year-old.” “How responsible people around him, or supporting him, can dismiss this or laugh it off is beyond me,” Cohen said.
 
 Jim Hines, a Democratic Congressman, said Trump’s tweet has “Freudians” abuzz and shows an impulse “'to demonstrate that his is bigger and stronger than anybody else’s”, an interpretation that was expressed more colourfully by the writer Stephen King. “When Blabbermouth Don talks about who has the bigger nuclear button, I think we all know what he’s talking about. It’s your basic dick-measuring contest. Sad!” King tweeted.
 
 
  
 
