NEW DELHI: The   ( ) on Monday criticised the Centre and asked it to frame a draft scheme by May 3 for the implementation of the judgment on the distribution of Cauvery water between  , Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry.

 
 The SC criticised the Centre for neither framing the scheme in six weeks as directed by it nor approaching the court prior to the March 31 deadline to conveny that it had difficulties. The top court repeatedly told Tamil Nadu that it agrees with its grievances and criticised the Centre for not acting swiftly to frame a scheme.
 
  "You have to frame the scheme and there is no escaping this task," the top court said to the Centre today.
 
 The SC also asked competent authorities in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to maintain peace in their states till the court puts stamp of approval on the scheme for implementation of its judgment on Cauvery water distribution.
 
 The apex court said that once the Centre devises a draft scheme - which includes the setting up of the Cauvery Water Management Board and Monitoring Authority for ensuring monthly releases - it will take the views of the state of Tamil Nadu,  , Puducherry and Kerala, before approving the scheme.
 
 The Centre had sought time beyond May 12 for framing the scheme, citing Assembly elections in Karnataka next month.
 
 The SC was hearing the Centre's plea seeking clarification on the February 16 verdict regarding setting up of a 
  management scheme in the decades-old river water sharing dispute.
 
 The apex court, in its verdict, had asked the Centre to formulate a scheme to ensure compliance of its 465-page judgement on the decades-old Cauvery dispute. It modified the 
  award of 2007 and made it clear that it will not be extending time for this on any ground.
 
 The apex court had on February 16 raised the 270 tmcft share of Cauvery water for Karnataka by 14.75 tmcft and reduced Tamil Nadu's share while compensating it by allowing extraction of 10 tmcft groundwater from the river basin, saying the issue of drinking water has to be placed on a "higher pedestal".
 
 With the apex court's verdict, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala and Union Territory of Puducherry would be annually entitled to 404.25 tmcft, 284.75 tmcft, 30 tmcft and 7 tmcft of Cauvery water respectively out of the total of 740 tmcft.
 
 
 
 
 
