CHANDIGARH: Thieves have taken a liking to temples in the city. Their love spurred them to strike at two places of worship located just a km away from where former Prime Minister Dr   was staying in the early hours of Wednesday.

 Despite heavy police force patrolling the area near   (where PM was staying) in Sector 19, thieves broke into the two temples in Sector 27 and stole silver ornaments worth Rs 10 lakh, a day after they struck in Sector 19.
 
 Suspecting the involvement of a gang in the recent temple thefts — five in more than three months — police said the thieves first targeted   temple and then   temple located opposite it.
 
 Sanjeev Sharma, general secretary, Sanatan Dharam temple, said four men scaled the boundary wall around 1.40 am and stole five silver crowns and silver shields weighing around 10 kg. The theft came to light around 5 am, when a helper came to open the door and found locks broken and ornaments missing. He informed the priests and temple management. At the time of the incident, 11 people were inside the temple, but nobody heard any noise.
 
 According to police officers, CCTV camera footage showed the thieves left the Sanatan Dharam temple at 2.09 am and after a few minutes two of them entered the Digambar Jain temple and fled with the canopy of a 40-foot tall idol of a Jain idol. The canopy weighed around 8 kg.
 
 Footage showed the accused entered at 2.21am and escaped at 2.26 am. The watchman of the Jain temple chased the accused, who managed to flee. On receiving information,  , DSP (east division) and Jaspal Singh Bhullar, station house officer, Sector 26, reached the spot.
 
 
 
 Cops, on their part, said temples, gurdwaras, mosques and other religious places are open for everybody. “Anybody can visit them during daytime, make a plan and then strike at nights,” they said.
 
 The temple authorities have begun checking 15 days old CCTV footage to identify the accused as they believe they could have visited the two temples during daytime for recce.
 
 Officials of Sita Ram temple in Sector 19, which was burgled in the early hours of Tuesday, had changed the gold crowns with artificial gold-plated crowns, managing to save jewellery worth lakhs of rupees.
 
 On July 2, 2017, the police arrested a devotee of Sai temple in Sector 29 and his accomplice for stealing ornaments worth around Rs 10 lakh. Accused Amarjit Singh was a frequent temple visitor. Police recovered stolen items worth Rs. 3.47 lakh from his possession.
 
 
 
 A dog squad and forensic team were called and fingerprints taken from both the crime scenes. Police also collected CCTV footage from both the temples. A police officer said two accused had covered their faces, while the rest were not wearing any masks. The DSP said the Sector 26 police registered a theft case and the CCTV footage was being scrutinized to get clues about the accused.
 
 
