NEW DELHI:   in the capital and surrounding regions has shown sign of improvements this winter — bettering from severe and severe plus categories to poor and very poor. However, there is still a long way to go to combat air pollution in the long term, states an assessment report released on Wednesday by Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority ( ).

  
 The SC-appointed body also lifted the “severe” and “very poor” category measures falling under the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) citing improvement in air quality, which has largely remained between “moderate” and “poor” over the last few weeks. EPCA also lifted the ban on diesel generators in the capital and allowed opening of Badarpur thermal power plant. However, the plant will be shut down completely by July 31.
 
 “The air in the   is so polluted and toxic that all our combined efforts have reduced pollution merely from the severe-severe plus categories to poor-very poor,” said EPCA member Sunita Narain. She added that air pollution at this level was still hazardous even for healthy people and much more efforts were required to bring it down to the good and moderate levels.
 
 The data from October 1, 2017 to February 25, 2018 pointed towards a slight improvement in the air quality as compared to the same time last year. An analysis of Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index data showed that the number of days in the severe category decreased for each month in comparison to the previous year, except in January. In February, 16% of the days were in the moderately poor category, compared to 8% in the previous year.
 
 The data of PM2.5 from the four major monitoring stations — Mandir Marg, Punjabi Bagh, RK Puram and   — showed little impact with pollution levels remaining high. The levels at hotspot areas, particularly Anand Vihar, also showed no signs of improvement.
 
 “We must not lose the momentum in our fight for clean air and forget the fact that right to breathe is fundamental,” said Bhure Lal, EPCA chairperson.
 
 
