PUNE: A prominent woman   has lodged a complaint with the Samarth police accusing six senior surgeons — all members of the Obesity Surgery Society of India (OSSI) — of attempting to extort Rs 20 lakh from her, besides criminally intimidating, defaming and roughing her up, and insulting her modesty.
 
 
 The woman surgeon, who did not wish to be named, has attributed different alleged acts to each of the senior surgeons — three from Delhi and one each from Mumbai, Hyderabad and Pune. OSSI is the national-level body of bariatric surgeons in India.
 
 
 Three of the senior surgeons are currently on a tour in Tokyo. The other three denied all the allegations against them and told TOI, “The allegations stem from a lingering dispute over financial irregularities, highlighted by an audit, in relation to a conference of the International Federation for Surgery of Obesity and Metabolic Disorders (IFSO), Asia Pacific Chapter, held in Goa in April last year.”
 
 
 
 
 
 The woman surgeon was the organizing secretary of the international meet and her role is under the scanner, they claimed. IFSO, a federation of national associations of bariatric surgeons and integrated health professionals, had written to the OSSI president in January expressing concern over the financial discrepancies in the audit related to the international meet. Following this, OSSI had set up a threemember fact-finding committee of past presidents.
 
 
 Against this backdrop, the elections of OSSI office-bearers were due in February. The woman surgeon had filed her nomination in January for the vice-president’s post. But the election for this particular post was deferred till the completion of the audit investigation.
 
 
 The woman surgeon named senior surgeons Pradip Choubey (65), Rajesh Khullar (58) and   (50), all from Delhi, Surendra Ugale (60) from Hyderabad, Mufazzal Lakdawala (47) from Mumbai and Shrihari Dhore-Patil (65) from Pune in her complaint lodged on Wednesday night.
 
 
 Lakdawala is a leading bariatric surgeon who has carried out surgeries on prominent people and politicians. He was recently in the news for operating upon the world’s heaviest (500kg) woman — Egyptian national Eman Ahmed. Khullar is the immediate past president of OSSI, while Dhore-Patil is the first surgeon in India to have conducted the weight loss surgery in 1999.
 
 The woman surgeon told TOI, “It all started when I filed my nomination for the OSSI vice-president’s post. They started a smear campaign against me and tried to influence the   The IFSO’s first letter raising concerns about financial discrepancies came on January 26. They circulated this e-mail to all the members to mobilize opinion against me. The next mail from IFSO, which came on January 31,said there was no irregularity. But that mail was not sent to all the members.”
 
 
 She said, “In a meeting held in Chennai in the last week of February, Lakdawala demanded Rs 20 lakh for a cover-up or they would continue with the smear campaign. In another meeting held in the last week of this month in Delhi, Dhore-Patil passed lewd remarks.”
 
 Senior inspector   told TOI, “We have registered a case as the contents of the complaint have brought out acognisable offence.”
 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone-II)   said, “The issue prima facie appears to have arisen from the dispute within the surgeons’ body over financial misappropriation. They (OSSI) should probe the misappropriation of funds on their own, but the acts alleged by the complainant cannot be overlooked.”
 
 
 TOI sent WhatsApp and text messages to Lakdawala, Khullar and Choubey, who are in Tokyo, seeking their response. Till the time of going to press, there was no response.
 
 
 Dhore-Patil said, “All her (woman surgeon) allegations are baseless. I am one of the past presidents on the fact-finding committee, which is going into the financial discrepancies related to the international meet. We are only doing the work we have been asked to. We never defamed her.”
 
 
 Ugale said, “None of us has ever defamed her. It was an independent audit. The IFSO president was in Delhi on March 23 and 24, where he told some members that she had threatened him with legal action. That is why the IFSO president wrote a short e-mail to make his position clear.”
 
 
 Peters told TOI, “I have no clue about what she has stated in her complaint. The OSSI general body had decided that we should have an independent audit after the letter. The audit was not to defame her.”
 
