NAGPUR:   is going from strength to strength. The supremely talented city shuttler maintained her spectacular performance to enter the final of the inaugural   (KISG) at the   in New Delhi on Wednesday.

 In a well-contested U-17 girls singles semifinal, top seed Malvika lived up to her reputation and overcame the stiff challenge from fourth seed Unnati Bisht 21-19, 21-14 in 43 minutes to clinch her place in the summit clash.
 
 Sixteen-year-old Malvika did not get the best of starts. The southpaw was trailing 9-15 and then 12-17 against an inspired Uttarakhand girl Unnati.
 
 However, Malvika pulled up her socks and staged a remarkable recovery to first level the scores at 19-19 and then grabbed two successive points to claim the first game at 21-19.
 
 The outcome of the first game acted as a tonic for Malvika as she raced to a big lead in the second game. She was leading 13-6 before she wrapped up the game and match at 21-14.
 
 Malvika will now take on second seed   of Chhattisgarh in the final on Thursday evening.
 
 Malvika, a Standard XI student of  , was jubilant after pulling off a brilliant win against Unnati.
 
 "It was a very good match with many long rallies particularly in the first game. I am glad I could close it out in straight two games. I had beaten her in the semifinal of the Junior Nationals at Guwahati. I have always beaten her in straight games but all the time the fight was very tough. Around couple of years ago at Chandigarh, I had lost once to her in three games," said Malvika.
 
 She gave credit to her coach Kiran Makode for rigorous practice sessions before the tournament.
 
 "I had long sessions of defence practice with Kiran Sir before leaving for Delhi. That really helped me here. The final against Aakarshi will be another big battle but I want to keep my focus and determined to give my best," said Malvika.
 
 While it was glory for Malvika, another city shuttler Rohan Gurbani flattered to decieve and lost in the U-17 boys singles semifinal against fourth seed  .
 
 The Manipur teenager scraped past eighth seed Rohan 21-19, 21-10 in 37 minutes. The match between two Prakash   trainees, Rohan started well but failed to get past his higher-ranked opponent.
 
