Aurushi Goswami@timesgroup.com

 If you are planning a Lohri nightout in NCR clubs, gear up to groove to Punjabi singles today. Along with Bollywood top songs like Swag Se Swagat and Tamma Tamma Again,   in Delhi tell us that with the rising popularity of Punjabi singles, they are counting big on this genre of music this festive season. 
 
 
  
 DJ Zuby tells us that though last year Bollywood tracks were a hit on Lohri, this time Punjabi singles are likely to rule Delhi’s dance floor. “Last year, Bollywood tracks were the top choice for DJs and only 30% of Punjabi singles were included in the playlists. But this year, with the growing popularity of Punjabi singles, we are including many of these songs in our playlist. Every alternate track you hear this year will be either a Wakhra Swag or some Guru Randhawa hit,” says DJ Zuby.
 
 “Delhi partygoers really enjoy high tempo music so I will play popular Bollywood tracks like Saturday, Angrezi Beat and Tu Mera Hero. Hits like 'High Rated Gabru' and 'Lahore' by Guru Randhawa and 'Wakhra Swag' are the Lohri Punjabi specials this year,” says DJ Zuby. 
 
 "Singles from popular Punjabi singers like 'Patiala Peg' are the top choices for Lohri. Since Punjabi songs rule most of the parties, a mix of Bollywood and popular Punjabi songs is my choice for this year’s   playlist," says DJ Maddy.
 
 
 
 After Punjabi pop, the next choice for DJs is the high tempo remixes of Hindi songs. “Bollywood songs are an all time hit with people. They enjoy the songs and also sing along,” says DJ Ruddy.
 
 
  
  
 
 "'Swag Se Swagat', 'Tamma Tamma Again', 'Mere Rashke Qamar' are the top songs on my playlist along with other Bollywood hit tracks,” says DJ Adi, who will play at a club in central Delhi today. 
 
 "I am making a mix of songs like 'Ban Ja Rani', 'Dil Diyaan Gallaan', 'Dil Chori' among others. I will be mixing them upbeat to match the Lohri spirit and will also bring in some bhangra flavour by playing some popular Punjabi tracks like 'Gaal Ni Kadni', 'Mercy' and others," says DJ Ruddy.
 
 Even though clubs usually don’t play old school, hardcore Punjabi tracks, DJs this year are planning on including some Punjabi folk songs. 
 
 "Sundar Mundriye is a must for any Lohri party. All Daler Mehendi songs work at Lohri parties. 'Dardi Rab Rab Kardi' is an all time favourite. Other popular Punjabi numbers that feature on a Lohri playlist include Tare Gin Gin by Sukhbir and 'Dhol Wajda Tumbi Wajdi'," says DJ Sumit Sethi, who will be playing at parties today.
 
 "'Jind Mahi', 'Latthe Di Chadar', 'Tekhe', 'Tapas','Gori Naal Ishq Mitha' are some retro numbers which cannot be missed at Lohri parties. I am not including any English mixes in my playlist,” says DJ TaTva K. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Apart from Bollywood and Punjabi mixes, some DJs are also including English dhol mixes in their playlist. "Shape Of You, We Will Rock You dhol mixes are also enjoyed by people. I have included some of these in my playlist to avoid an overdose of Punjabi songs," says DJ Adi. 
 
 "I will start the party with some Indi-remixes of some popular English tracks and will follow with a mix of Bollywood and Punjabi singles," says DJ Ruddy.
 
 "Lahore is the latest track by Randhawa and the demand for the song is high. I have included this song along with other popular Punjabi tracks to my playlist," says DJ Rohit who is going to play at a venue in Sector 76 in Noida.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 DJ Karan Singh, who operates from Noida, says, "I will be playing tracks like 'Dil Chori Sada Ho Gaya' and 'Latthe Di Chadar'. I will mix trance music with Punjabi beats. I am also going to mix some Hollywood tracks with dhol beats."
 
 Khan DJ, who will play at a venue in Noida today, says, "I am going to play in a society in Sector 76. Apart from Bollywood hits, I will play Sharry Mann’s Hostel, '3Peg', 'Cute Munda' and Babbu Mann''s 'Mitran Di Chatri'. I will also mix Punjabi and Bollywood tracks like 'Lift Teri Bandh Hai', 'Badri Ki Dulhania' and 'Chalti Hai Kya 9 Se 12'."
 
 DJ Suraj, who is going to play at a party in Noida today, says, "For Lohri, Punjabi tracks will be on but bhangra and dhol beats will rule the day. I will play some all-time favourite tracks like 'Latthe Di Chadar', 'Sundar Mundariye', 'Balle Balle Ji Soneya' today."
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 ---with inputs from Priyanka.Narula@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
