AHMEDABAD: The   on Tuesday refused to table in the state assembly a 2013 report on untouchability, stating that it had been prepared by a university and not by a notified commission. Chief minister   announced that the government would not tolerate untouchability. He told the House during the question hour of the ongoing budget session that his government had taken steps as recommended in the report on untouchability, which was prepared by   five years ago.

 During the question-answer session,   Pravin Maru sought to know whether the government had received Cept’s report and what steps it had taken on the findings. “The report has made many recommendations. One is that the government should formulate schemes without keeping in mind the caste factor,” Rupani said. “To create harmony among all, the report suggested that children of all castes and faiths — Dalits, Hindus and Muslims — take meals together.”
 
 The government conducts many inquiries but it is not necessary to table every report, Rupani said. Maru said that in 2010, Navsarjan Trust had surveyed 1,589 villages and its findings indicated that untouchability still existed in the state. Maru said that the Navsarjan had surveyed 98,000 people in the state. He said that after the report was released, the government had cancelled the license of the trust.
 
 “Navsarjan submitted a one-sided and anti-government report. We realized that it was prepared only to malign Gujarat’s image,” said social justice and empowerment minister Ishwar Parmar. “Hence, the government asked Cept University to carry out a fact-finding survey in 2010. We received the report in April 2013.” The report was submitted to the government, which forwarded it to the department concerned for implementation. Senior Congress MLA Shailesh Parmar asked the government to share the findings of the report as well as the steps taken by the government. He said that untouchability was still prevalent in the state and Dalits were often socially boycotted.
 
 
