Bhopal: The mystery behind recovery of a Madhya Pradesh tiger’s skin in Nepal is likely to be solved with the arrest of Nepalese fugitive Lodu Dime on an Interpol red corner notice. Dime, 40, was convicted in absentia by Nepalese authorities following the seizure of wildlife products in Nepal during Interpol’s ‘Operation Prey IV’ in 2013, and there was an Interpol notice against him since January 18. He was arrested in Kathmandu on March 5 following a tip by National Central Bureau (Interpol)-India.  MP special task force (wildlife) authorities suspect Dime’s involvement in the smuggling of skins of several big cats from MP through a well-networked international poaching syndicate. “Dime is wanted in MP by STF in connection with poaching of T13 tiger of Pench. Its skin was seized by Interpol in Nepal in 2013 along with four other tiger hides and seven sacks full of tiger bones,” said a forest officer. MP will write to National Tiger Conservation Authority to send a team to interrogate Dime in Nepal in connection with T13 and other missing tigers of MP, said an officer. Chief of state wildlife STF, Alok Kumar, however, said she had no detailed input on Dime’s involvement in MP tiger poaching cases. STF has got reports of the polygraph and narco test on Haryana’s Dalbir Shrichand Bawaria — suspected middleman of an India-China tiger smuggling syndicate. Bawaria failed the lie detector test, say sources. “We need to probe links between Bawaria and Dime. There are some clues to their association,” said the officer. MP wildlife STF had taken Bawaria to Gujarat forensic laboratory for a narco test, hoping to crack the T13 mystery and other poaching of other tigers in MP. Bawaria was arrested in February this year after his name was revealed by another poacher named Chika, who belongs to a traditional hunting tribe settled in Bihalari village of Katni district. Chika was arrested along with gang member Mamru on June 6, 2013, when they fell for a tiger-hide sting by Nagpur’s crime branch and MP forest officials near Mansar. During interrogation in Nagpur, the alleged poachers confessed to trafficking 20 tiger hides from the Pench-Kanha corridor and Vidarbha region. Bawaria is lodged in Seoni jail. Chika revealed that tigress T13 was poached for Bawaria. She was last camera-trapped with its cubs in Raikassa area of Pench on February 28, 2012. Then, they vanished. It remained a mystery until her hide was confiscated 1,500-km away in Nepal on January 12, 2013, along with a consignment of wildlife contraband being smuggled to Tibet from Kathmandu in a mini-truck. The truck owner and driver said during interrogation that the bones were smuggled from India and were bound for the Chinese border. A joint team from National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) were sent from New Delhi to Nepal to explore the Indian connection. These officers collected information and photographs of the seized hide and sent them to Wildlife Institute of India (WII)-Dehradun for analysis. The WII scientists reported back to NTCA that the stripes on one of the skins match T13’s. In May 2013, the MP forest department was asked to register a case and conduct a probe with the help of CID and police. WCCB also reported that the sacks that held the tiger skins and bones had the name and address of a well-known firm in MP. Recently, MPSTF sleuths had visited Nepal and met with the central investigation bureau (CIB) there. Bawaria was first arrested by WCCB on November 21, 2013, from his native place Samlakha in Panipat district of Haryana. He is being probed by CBI in a tiger skins seizure at Nagpur railway station in 2009 How Interpol Alert Netted A Fugitive Convicted in absentia by Nepal following seizure of wildlife products in 2013 He fled the country that year Nepal asked for an Interpol red corner notice in January 2018 Six weeks later it triggered an alert at New Delhi airport during immigration Interpol Delhi bureau alerted the Kathmandu unit Dime was nabbed soon after landing at Kathmandu airport on March 5