KOLKATA: Saoli Mitra on Sunday ruled out all possibilities of her returning as the chairperson of the Paschimbanga Bangla Akademi. “I am finally cutting off all possibilities of my returning to the chair of Paschim Banga Akademi,” said the actor-director.

 In December last year, Mitra had sent a letter to chief minister   asking to be relieved off her duties. Inability to function in the absence of proper infrastructure had forced her to tender her resignation from the assignment that she took on in 2012 at the CM’s request.
 
 Mitra had publicly announced her decision to resign in January this year. Before matters could get awkward, state education minister   had intervened and assured Mitra that all her hurdles would be removed. “In March this year, I called Partha up again and spoke about the issue. I had also forwarded him a copy of my letter to the CM. Partha said he had instructed principal secretary of Information and Cultural Affairs —   — to do the needful. The next day, Kumar called me up. He insisted I was needed and also mentioned about the high standard of work the Akademi has been doing recently. I reminded him I was facing infrastructural problems there and asked what was being done to improve the working conditions. I wanted him to give an official response on the issue. But till now, I didn’t get any official communication on this,” Mitra said.
 
 Kumar did not respond to TOI’s call on Sunday. Mitra also mentioned plans to come up with collection of works on   and  . “There are 17 volumes of works on Tagore. We have material to come up with some more volumes. Not everyone can do this kind of work. We took a lot of pain to come up with six volumes on  . We need good researchers who are specialised to work on Tagore, Michael and Bibhutibhushan,” she said.
 
 Acute absence of good proofreaders is hampering the Akademi’s work. “There are people recruited as proofreaders during the Left Front regime. But with my experience, I can’t say they are good. There is a post for assistant editor. But no one has been recruited there. Also, efficient people who can work as research assistants and researchers are required. Those helping us are doing so voluntarily. I wanted things to be more streamlined so that the work gets done properly,” she said.
 
 Mitra is peeved that despite sending repeated letters, there has been complete silence. “Enough is enough. This is humiliating for me. I have reached an age where I don’t need to take all this. I have waited long enough and am firm in my decision,” she said. On being asked if there is any room for reconsideration if the CM intervenes, she said she didn’t want to answer it till such a situation arises.
 
