HUBBALLI: Polling went off peacefully in   and surrounding villages of Kundagol and   on Saturday.

 Brisk   was reported in the city till 2 pm and sudden downpour around 4pm played spoilsport, disrupting voting in some stations.
 
 Till 3pm, Hubballi-Dharwad East constituency recorded 53% polling and Hubballi-Dharwad Central constituency recorded 48%. After which rain lashed for an hour and brought down the tempo of election. Till 5pm, the voting percentage was 55.
 
 BJP and   workers clashed and argued over alleged distribution of money at S M Krishna Nagar.
 
 Due to some technical problem in EVMs and VVPATs at some places, people were forced to stand in long queues to cast their votes. MP Pralhad Joshi waited for more than an hour to cast his vote at Bhavaninagar due to faulty EVM. Polling started at 8.30am instead of 7am. At two polling stations of Hubballi-Dharwad East, VVPATs had to be replaced as they faltered during mock voting. Five pink polling stations In Hubballi-Dharwad East and West constituencies were appreciated by women voters
 
 Former chief minister Jagadish Shettar cast his vote at SBI School in Keshwapur.
 
 Brisk voting was seen in rural areas while there was weak response from urban voters in the region. While voters in Kundagol were enthusiastically casting their votes, voters were hesitant in Kalghatagi constituency.
 
 Tension prevailed in Saunshi village of Kundagol taluk when a voter Hanamappa Hanamantappa Hosamani alleged that his vote was franchised by another voter Ramanna Hosamani, who currently lives in Harlapur village. Showing documents, he alleged that Ramanna succeeded in getting a voter ID card with his photo, but with the name of `Hanamappa’. Election officials said that a person called Hanamappa Hosamani had brought EPIC card and cast his vote. Finally village elders convinced him to give up his voting power and file a complaint with the Election Commission.
 
 Pink polling stations in Kundagol and Kalghatagi attracted more women this time.   and Bharati Gudemmanavar of Kundagol said that they felt more secure this time. 
 
 
