NEW DELHI: There was a   dip in   crimes in the capital last year — 23.4% as compared to the previous year. The cops reported 6,057 heinous crimes as compared to 7,910 in 2016. And this, according to the  , can be seen in all major categories like murder, dacoity, robbery, kidnapping for ransom and rioting. 

 This good news comes on the top of the cops solving 16% more cases than the previous year. Last year, they had also solved all kidnapping for ransom and dacoity cases while the success rate for other cases ranged from 85% to 95%.
 
 Explaining how this was achieved, police commissioner   pointed out during his annual press conference on Thursday that a thrust on modernistation of policing techniques had led to higher detection which in turn reduced the number of such crimes. Traditional beat level inputs played a major role in preventing such crimes from happening.
 
 There was a 7.78% drop in murders — 462 as against 501 in the previous year. 
 
  
  
 Last year,   had undertaken incident-based crime-mapping and identification of hot spots, dynamic deployment of policemen with focus on identified areas, identification of active criminals, arrest of notorious criminals and preparation of history sheets of notorious criminals and breaking the routes firearms take to enter the capital. All this had a salutary effect on the crime situation.
 
 “Concerted efforts to reduce drinking in public, considered to be a precursor to crimes like rape and molestation, have led to a reduction in the number of cases of sexual assault on women,” said R P Upadhyay, special commissioner (crime). 
 
 Delhi Police arrested 23,094 people for drinking at public places in 2017.
 
 One of the most vulnerable group prone to heinous crimes, senior citizens, felt safer with a   in the number of cases involving them — 91 as against 122 in 2016. 
 
 “Informing the civic agencies about dark patches in the city and directing offices with night duties to ensure the safety of their employees while dropping them back at their residences have resulted in a dip in the number of crimes against women,” said deputy commissioner of police (PRO) Madhur Verma.
 
 Initiatives like “Pehchan” in which children from the underpriviledged sections were photographed for a data base that can be used to trace a child if he or she is found to be involved in a henious crime also helped. The police have a records of 1,85,122 children under this scheme now.
 
 
