BENGALURU: With drains in front of their homes left dug up for the past month, those living in Sectors 6 and 7 of HSR Layout are literally under house arrest.

 “There is water stagnation right in front of our homes, and thousands of mosquitoes are breeding here. The work started about a month-and-a-half ago, but the workers haven’t been coming here for the past three weeks. The local   assured us that the work would be completed soon, but nothing has materialized,” said H V  , who lives in 16th Cross, HSR Sector 6.
 
 All the houses on street where Sridhar lives have placed wooden planks diagonally from the front steps to the road so that they can at least enter and exit their homes. Further, with the drains dug up, none of them can park their vehicles in their compounds. While the only option is to park on the road, this often leads to congestion during peak hours, say aggrieved residents.
 
 “Following last year’s heavy rain, the officials said they’d relay the drains, and that the work would take two weeks. But now they they’ve opened up everything and left. In fact, while using earthmovers to dig up the drains, they damaged our drinking-water pipes. We had to call our own plumbers to fix them,” said  , who lives on the same street. “The workers have, on occasions, even removed the planks placed in front of our homes for no reason,” he added.
 
 The problem is even more severe for the elderly. Manjula NG, a resident, said her senior citizen neighbours have been unable to leave their homes for weeks now.
 
 A few streets down, on 7th Main in Sector 7, the situation isn’t much better. “Following last year’s heavy rain and flooding, the authorities dug up the sides of the roads and opened the stormwater drain here. Over 8 months later, the drain, which is full of sewage now, is still open. Politicians and officials visiting the area keep saying work will be over soon, but there seems to be no respite,” said   G, a resident. Ironically, the drain which is full of sewage and breeds mosquitoes, is right in front of a pharmacy. It’s almost as if those coming to buy medicines to recover from some illness are bound to return with a new ailment, say residents.
 
 Gurumurthy Reddy, corporator, HSR Layout ward, though, appears optimistic when he says the work will get over soon. “As it rained a lot, the drains started overflowing. Therefore, there was a need to rebuild them. The work is progressing fast, and should be over in another month,” he said. BBMP authorities were not available for comment.
 
 
 
  
 
