JOHANNESBURG: Of all the questions that the Indian team has faced ever since landing here in South Africa, the one that's repeatedly been asked is about their selection policy.

 
 
 
 The questions surrounding it have been never-ending. Just to make a point, if your name were to be   and you happened to be in South Africa for any reason but cricket, you'd still be made to feel as unwanted as possible here.
 
 
 
 
 His two half-centuries and a century against Sri Lanka in November-December last year notwithstanding, leave alone the belting in excess of 1200 ODI runs in 2017, Sharma's selection in the playing XI for the first two Test matches here has been the biggest bone of contention. More so because Sharma happens to be in the XI ahead of a certain   - a proven Test batsman overseas with an average of 54 and a reputation preceding it.
 
 Why Sharma ahead of Rahane? Why bench Rahane in the first place? Why not have both in the XI if there's no other choice? What has Sharma done to belong here? The questions have been never ending and answers given out too little.
 
 It has not been easy for either of the batsmen here. Sharma, for all the attention he's been getting, and Rahane for all the attention he's been missing.
 
 Also, this was the first of a flurry of selections - dropping   in Centurion, Jasprit Bumrah receiving his Test cap during a series as big as this one and   getting the nod ahead of KL Rahul that have been constantly under the scanner.
 
 
  Team management's say: What message do we give to a batsman who has been in the middle of runs by dropping him for a batsman who has clearly struggled? If he (Sharma) wasn't picked, the question will be 'why drop a batsman who has averaged 217 in two Test matches?' Ajinkya was struggling with the bat. He has 554 runs in 18 Test innings, and if you keep aside the 132 in Colombo last year, 442 runs in 17 innings averaging less than 30.
 
 
 : Ajinkya Rahane has taken to the nets here in South Africa like fish to water. The 29-year-old has batted for eternity and has clearly been middling the ball very well. The batsman, who was very low on confidence flying into SA - for reasons professional and personal - is back in the right touch and is ready to claim his No. 5 spot.
 
 
 Team management's say: Quinton de Kock stood forward for  . That was the kind of wicket laid out here. And the team were forced to go with   because of  's injury.   was very impressive (in the second Test) and Shami too bowled so well. So where's the question of not being fair to Bhuvi?
 
 
 The Indian team has yet not found its way to the Wanderers. But given the pitch talk in South Africa, the Bullring is likely to come up with a green, lively wicket. If the wicket lives up to its reputation, Bhuvneshwar Kumar can be expected to return to the XI.
 
 
  Team management's say: At Newlands, he brought India back into the game. He's got pace, can bowl lengths to surprise, bowls mean yorkers and helps in distributing the workload. What's the big deal about giving him an opportunity?
 
 
 Thrown to the wolves at 24 , Jasprit Bumrah's introduction to Test cricket has been as fiery as it could've been. Faf du Plessis, for one, has not stopped talking about his Day Four spell at the Newlands. It will be surprising if he's benched for the third Test. 
 
