BENGALURU: The state government on Wednesday decided to reopen all cases related to illegal export of iron ore from Goa and Karnataka, which were closed by the   (CBI). It empowered the special investigation team (SIT), probing illegal mining cases in Karnataka, to reopen these cases.

 Briefing the media after a cabinet meeting, law minister T B Jayachandra said: “All cases of illegal mining, cited in the Lokayukta report of July 2010 and closed by the CBI after a preliminary inquiry, will now be reopened by the SIT.” Jayachandra said the cases were primarily related to export of illegally mined ore transported from the New Mangaluru and Karwar ports in Karnataka and Marmagoa and   ports in Goa.
 
 “The cases which will be reopened are those that were handed over to the CBI in 2014, after the   had asked the central investigation agency to probe all illegal mining cases involving 50,000 metric tonnes of ore. The SIT was directed to investigate the rest,” he said.
 
 The law minister said that previously too the state government had found it difficult to get clearances from the Centre’s department of personnel & training (DoPT) in handing over these cases to the CBI. “Finally, after two-and-half years, the cases were entrusted to the CBI. However, despite the presence of all relevant documents to initiate action against the guilty parties, the CBI conducted a preliminary inquiry and said there was no evidence to pursue the cases and decided to close them in 2017,” he said, justifying the government’s decision to get the SIT to reopen the cases.
 
 While speculation is rife that the   government is reopening these cases to target companies which are either sympathetic towards the   or JD(S), especially during election season, senior ministers in the Siddaramaiah cabinet claimed it was the Centre that was playing politics and “pressurised” the CBI to close the mining cases.
 
 “We, in fact, had detailed meetings with members of the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee ( ), and all of them had concurred that there was enough material to pursue the case, but there was pressure from the Centre to close them. This is the main reason why the cases are being handed over to the SIT,” the minister said.
 
 Jayachandra said the cases pertaining to export of illegal iron ore from   and   will continue to be probed by the CBI, though there has been not much progress in those cases either. “To recover losses due to illegal mining, we will attach properties and assets of companies which have been found guilty and chargesheeted for causing loss to the exchequer,” he said.
 
