NAGPUR: Three juveniles, facing several serious charges, including rape, fled the government observation home at   after a group clash on Wednesday. The juveniles, who had also escaped in April but were nabbed again by cops, pelted stones at the security guards while escaping. Last time, these minors had fled after sprinkling chilli powder on the security guards.

 This is the second incident of inmates fleeing the premises this year. These inmates were lodged at the place following orders of   (JJB). There are around 15 inmates sent by JJB to the home while the rest 30 are those categorized as ‘children in need of care and protection’, and sent there by the   (CWC). 
 
 One of the minors, who has at least 30 offences against him, has fled the home on more than eight occasions in the past, while another has escaped on four occasions. Their third accomplice too has sneaked out of the premises on three occasions. Each time they have been brought back by the cops.
 
 The three juveniles, who have been engaged in criminal activities from as young as 14 years, as per the records at the home, reportedly picked up a fight with three other inmates, who had been named in a sensational murder at Khaparkheda last year. The fight had taken place during dinner time, following a verbal duel. The inmates had started hurling plates at each other, and the four guards rushed to intervene. The guards, knowing well the trend in the home, had locked the gates at four places before rushing to the dining hall.
 
 The clashing minor inmates, who may have planned the move, turned violent on seeing the guards. Sources from the home said the minors broke tiles from the bathrooms and hurled them at the other group of inmates, and also targeted the guards. Left on the back foot after seeing the minors in an aggressive mood, the guards preferred to stay some distance away.
 
 The three minors then climbed a water pipe from the ground floor to reach the terrace of the one-storey building, and jumped down in the space behind the building. They fled after easily scaling the low compound gate.
 
 Home officials later reached the Jaripatka police station to lodge a complaint, following which city cops and crime branch counterparts started a search. The concerned police stations, Nandanvan, Kalamna and Jaripatka, from where the minors had been sent to the home after being caught for various offences, have also been alerted.
 
 One of the juvenile, who has been repeatedly caught in the past by Nandanvan police, is learnt to engage in burglaries, robberies and such crimes every time he manages to flee.
 
 
