BHOPAL: The   on Wednesday ratified the new excise policy for 2018-19 in which it has been decided to close all liquor shops and “ahata” outlets within 50 metre radius of girls’ schools, women’s colleges, girls’ hostels and all religious places. Minister for water resources and government spokesman   said, “Those liquor shops falling within 50 metres of girls schools and colleges, hostels for girl students and religious places will be closed down with effect from April 1, 2018.”

 Last year, the government had implemented the   order of shifting all liquor outlets to beyond 500 metres from national highways. This year, the government took the decision to create certain “dry zones”. “Madhya Pradesh will now have stretches of dry zones where liquor will no longer be permitted. These dry zones will be near holy rivers apart from the girls’ education institutions,”   specified.
 
 “More than 65 country and foreign liquor shops have been shut down from near the banks of the   last year. Now, more restricted zones will be created,” the minister said. Out of 2,700 “ahatas” in the state, 149 will be closed down. Number for liquor shops that come in the dry zones is not yet known.
 
 The state government now gives you the facility to check whether the liquor bottle you just purchased is genuine or spurious. “To curb sale of spurious liquor, the government decided to give consumers ability to test genuineness of the product. Consumer can click a photograph of the hologram on the bottle and send it to number 562634500 and will promptly know whether he purchased an original or spurious bottle,” Mishra explained.
 
 Details of movement of liquor from the warehouses to the liquor shops will be available online. To stop sale of illicit liquor in the rural areas, district and village committees will be appointed. The government has also made provisions for graver punishment and bigger penalty for sale of spurious liquor. The home department has been asked to give suggestions on how punishment for crimes related to spurious sale of liquor can be made by adding an extra clause.
 
 The government said even after closing down of liquor shops and ahatas, the state’s revenue from licences will increase by 15%. To give a boost to tourist spots, the cabinet decided to reduce bar licence fee of outlets in resorts.
 
 
