Bhopal: In their interaction with chief election commissioner (CEC) OP Rawat, represenatives of Congress and Communist Party of India (CPI) harped on physical verification in case there are more than 25 people from one home in voters’ list.

 CPI representatives also said, “Bureaucrats and government servants inclined towards RSS should be identified and not deployed in election duty during assembly polls in the state.,” said representatives of the CPI while raising the demand before Rawat. 
 
 When asked, Rawat, who was in the state capital on Tuesday, did not say anything beyond, “We will look into the complaint.” Rawat met representatives of all recognised political parties one by one and listened to suggestions and complaints. 
 
 Talkng to media persons, Rawat said, “Majority of suggestions from political parties were related to voters list. The commission will consider other suggestions and complaints.”
 
 Representatives of the BJP urged the CEC to make it clear names of 6.73 lakh absentee, dead or shifted voters that emerged from verification using ERO Net software is part of routine process. They said rectification of voters’ list is a continuous process and there is nothing like fake voters.
 
 Congress leader Mahendra Singh Chouhan drew the attention to several polling booths in Narela constituency of Bhopal where, he claimed, there are 25 to 119 voters in same house and it should be verified.
 
 Major suggestions from Congress leaders centred around verification and rectification of voters’ list, copy of voters’ list with coloured photograph of voters to political parties to easily identify duplicate voters. Apart from it they also suggested providing a copy of VVPAT slip to voters and asking them to deposit it in boxes representing parties and candidates. 
 
 BOX
 
 Who said what 
 
 BJP: Make it clear there are no fake voters, but removal of absentee, dead, shifted voters is a routine process
 
 Congress: Detailed investigation and verification of voters’ list before final publication & physical verification of houses having more than 25 voters in the list
 
 BSP: Rectification of voters’ list, providing coloured copies of voters list to political parties
 
 CPI: No deployment of bureaucrats having RSS leanings in poll duty
 
 
