CHENNAI: It has been eight months since Chennai got four new family courts, taking the total number of family courts in the metropolis to eight – but still speedy disposal of matrimonial cases remains a distant dream for  .

 
  
  
 
 Reason: Lack of adequate staff caused due to the failure of the judiciary to fill up the vacancies even after the   sanctioned adequate staff, say advocates and court officials. Shortage of hands at clerical level has defeated the very purpose behind increasing the number of courts, they say.
 
 For instance, a single stenotypist shuttles between four courts on alternate days, resulting in backlogs of judgment delivery. About 50 to 100 such cases are pending in each court, said a court staff member who works for at least three hours, beyond regular court hours, every day.
 
 Advocate R Y  , who was instrumental in the increase in number of courts, said: “The government order dated November 19, 2015, which sanctioned establishment of the four new courts, had also sanctioned 22 staff members for each court at a recurring expenditure of Rs 57.22 lakh per annum. But the courts are yet to get the full sanctioned strength. All the four courts are making do with meagre staff strength of 5 to 8.”
 
 As per the GO, the total sanctioned staff strength is 88, but the four courts are at present managed by 32 staff, including office assistants.
 
 Due to acute shortage of staff, some judges are compelled to write down submission of evidence, which ordinarily should be typewritten by a steno, he said.
 
 Additional family court-II has no judge for almost a year, bringing the effective number of functioning courts to seven, said advocate and former special public prosecutor for human rights court  . “Family courts are special courts constituted under the Family Courts Act, particularly for speedy disposal of matrimonial disputes. But, in reality, speedy disposal is not happening primarily due to lack of staff,” Kannadasan said.
 
 There is a circular issued by the registry of the high court instructing court staff not to be present on the premises after 6pm. But with the amount of workload due to lack of adequate staff, leaving the court by 6pm is impossible, a woman court officer told TOI.
 
 Noting that the situation is pathetic, advocate   said: “Shuttling of staff between courts as done currently would not solve the issue. That is not the manner in which court proceedings should be handled. Instead, immediate steps must be taken to make fresh recruitments and provide training to the recruits. Each court must be allotted equal number of new recruits and existing staff so that a balance is maintained.”
 
