CHENNAI: A day after the   of the attack went  , the   ( ) has taken suo motu cognisance of media reports on a youth and his mother attacked by traffic policemen in the city and summoned the two policemen attached with Mambalam   to appear before the commission.

 The SHRC bench headed by D Jayachandran ordered sub inspector Suresh and special sub inspector Jayaraman to appear before the commission on April 18 for an enquiry.
 
 The issue pertains to yet another public relations disaster for the police department, wherein a video clip went viral on social networking sites, in which traffic policemen were seen manhandling a woman and her son in T Nagar.
 
 Police had intercepted a bike in which the rider Prakash, 21, his mother Sangeetha, 48, and his younger sister were riding pillion and asked to pay a fine of Rs 100 for failing to wear a helmet and riding triples. Trouble began when Prakash started filming the cops in his mobile when asked to pay the fine amount of Rs.100.
 
 An argument ensued and soon escalated into a brawl when Prakash allegedly held the sub inspector’s rank badge on the uniform. The woman suffered injuries when she tried to hold her son from being whisked away by police after which she was also manhandled by the cops.
 
 Reports further stated that though police personnel claimed that they have not done anything wrong, the CCTV camera   recorded at a nearby showroom exposed the attack on the woman and also the negligence of Prakash. 
 
 Police action was condemned widely in social media and by political leaders like DMK Rajya Sabha MP Kanimozhi who termed the act barbaric.
 
 While Prakash was remanded in judicial custody after being booked for causing hurt and deterring public servant from discharging duty, a departmental inquiry has been ordered into the incident against the three police personnel involved, city police said.
 
  In case of non-compliance witht the summons, final decision would be taken by the commission in their absence and proceeding will be initiated against them under Rules 10 and 12 of Order of XVI Civil Procedure Code.
 
 
