TRICHY: The International airport in   has continued to be top among non-metro airports managed by Airport Authority of India ( ) in the southern region. However, the airport has slipped to sixth place from fifth best among non-metro airports in the country in Customer Satisfaction Index ( ) survey. 

 The airport secured first place in the southern non-metro airports and 5th at the national level survey conducted during the period between January and June 2017 with the scores of 4.70, authorities said.
 
 This airport achieved 4.72 scores on a five-point scale index in the latest CSI survey conducted by an independent agency for the period of July to December 2017. It came after   (4.88), Udaipur (4.79), Dehradun (4.77), Amritsar (4.75) and Jodhpur (4.73) respectively.
 
 A total of 35 parameters including overall satisfaction with the airport with regard to passengers, business passengers, leisure passengers, ambience of airport, cleanliness of airport terminal, washrooms, toilets, comfort of waiting areas, speed of baggage delivery service, customs inspection, courtesy and helpfulness of inspection staff, security staff, restaurant and eating facilities, parking facilities, ground transportation have been taken into account to judge the satisfaction of the passengers.
 
 Airport Authority of India makes continuous efforts to improve the services and passenger facilities at its airports and this has placed the Trichy airport at the sixth position amongst the best service providers in the country and secured first place across the southern region, said the airport director K  .
 
 Customer satisfaction is one of the key performance objectives of Airport Authority of India (AAI) which is evaluated through customer satisfaction survey conducted by an independent agency commissioned by AAI, he added.
 
 “Trichy airport has earned a total of Rs 31 crore as profit before tax, till the third quarter in 2017-18 approximately. The estimated profit in the year 2017-18 after tax may come around Rs 32 crore,” he said and he expressed hope that more than Rs 35 crore would be achieved during the year 2018-19. It is noted that the profit during the year 2016-17 was Rs 21 crore, Gunasekaran stated.
 
 
