BHOPAL:   removed the SHO of Indaar police station Suresh Sharma from election duty in   assembly seat after   took a complaint against lathi-charge on candidate Mahendra Singh Yadav and party workers on Thursday evening. Soon after Mahendra Singh Yadav was injured in the lathi-charge, Congress took two complaints to the EC - one in Bhopal and another in Delhi. 

 After meeting with EC top brass in New Delhi, former Union minister Kamal Nath said, "We have said that the police administration should be removed. Congress party wants peaceful polls whereas the   wants violence. They now know that defeat is imminent so their new strategy is that their candidates for Mungaoli and Kolaras should not lose by huge margins. That is why all this violence."
 
 Congress candidate for Kolaras assembly bypoll Mehendra Singh Yadav was injured when police resorted to lathi-charge. Congress workers were protesting the presence of BJP MLA from Bhind Narendra Singh Kushwah even after campaigning had ended for the bypolls at 5 pm. State Congress spokesman JP Dhanopia alleged, "Kushwah was caught moving in an SUV and distributing cash to voters in Khatora, the village of our Congress candidate."
 
 As Congress protested, the police resorted to lathi-charge injuring Yadav and others. In New Delhi, Congress delegation including Kamal Nath, Suresh Pachauri, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Kantilal Bhuria met CEC office on Thursday night and demanded action against police. "The EC assured us that they will call for a report and action will be taken," Kamal Nath said on Thursday night.
 
 In Bhopal also, a delegation of state Congress office-bearers including JP Dhanopia, Chandrika Prasad Dwivedi and Ravi Saxena went to the EC office here with a complaint against the police not registering an FIR against Narendra Singh Kushwah even after he was caught with cash, they alleged. Congress leaders said that though the police TI Suresh Sharma has been relieved from election duty, they are still not accepting that cash was being distributed."
 
 At Indaar police station in Kolaras, a case of rioting and arson has been registered against 47 unknown persons. BJP candidate Devendra Jain Patte-Wala also registered a case against two persons for vandalising property and vehicles.
 
 
