 MUMBAI: Prime Minister   submitted a report card on Sunday on a slew of infrastructure projects undertaken during his tenure, promising good times for the Mumbai Metropolitan Region by 2022. 

  "By 2022, aircraft would be flying (from Navi Mumbai international airport), you would be driving on the longest sea link (Mumbai Trans Harbour Link), double-laning of suburban railway corridor will be done and the statue of Shivaji Maharaj installed (off Mumbai coast)," said Modi, after electronically performing the ground-breaking ceremony of the Rs 16,000-crore Navi Mumbai International Airport and dedicating the largest fourth container terminal at Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust. 
 
 "Around 450 aircraft are operational in India, including those owned privately...since Independence. However, within just last one year, there have been orders for 900 new planes," said the PM in his 15-minute address at the public function at a ground near Kombadbhuje village in the proposed airport area in   district.
 
 The PM drew loud cheers from the gathering when he referred to Shivaji Jayanti on Monday, and spoke about replicating the Maratha ruler's sea route strategy of strengthening ports in India to bolster exports as part of the Sagarmala project. "If we have to carve out a place in a globalized world, we need to enhance our waterways."
 
 Modi also invoked continuity of BJP rule by referring to the two-decade-old largest greenfield airport project as one that "had been conceived during former PM A B Vajpayee's tenure".
 
 Modi also took a dig at previous governments and "the tardy work culture when most projects were only on paper". He said during his tenure he started the PRAGATI portal to fast-track projects that had been gathering dust,   being one of them. He neither named   nor spoke about 2019 elections, but the reference to the road map under his government and soliciting of future support was evident.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said he had held talks with a strategic partner for the airport project and the deadline for the maiden takeoff was December 2019. Fadnavis credited Maharashtra's growth to the leadership and goal-oriented approach of the Prime Minister. 
 
 
