NAGPUR: The Maharashtra Shiv Vahtuk Sena, Nagpur division ( ), which works under   has recently discovered that the private travel buses in city illegally carry about six to seven tonnes of goods in each of its trip.

 MSVS has been conducting investigations in this matter and have raided around 400 such buses till date. Speaking at a press conference on Monday, Rakesh Agrawal, Nagpur sub-district head, MSVS said, “Around 800 travel buses commute in and out of the city daily. These buses do not have the permit to carry any kind of goods. Out of our examinations, we have realized that huge amount of revenue is being whipped using this illegal transportation. Unlawful custom and other goods were also found and when the drivers were questioned about it, they failed to produce any kind of bills or documents of the same.”
 
 He also informed that regional transport officer, special inspector general, local police stations such as Wadi, Koradi, Hingna, Kalmeshwar, MIDC Butibori, Bhivapur and more along with the traffic department and RTO were repeatedly told about the issue since months but no action was taken.
 
 “Since the administration was not stepping into the matter, we had to intervene. It is causing major problems for truck transporters as they are losing their jobs. Also, filling up the buses with heavy goods and running on the roads speedily can be highly risky for the commuters, too,” said Agrawal. He also questioned the system for not paying heed in the matter, doubting their interests in the same.
 
 RTO Sharad Jichkar, while speaking to TOI said, "It is not true that the system does nothing about this issue. Our squad keeps carrying out the investigation regularly. But we can stop only those buses who have their goods placed on the top of the vehicle as it clearly indicates rule is being broken.But stopping a vehicle without any reason can be inconvenient. If complaints regarding a specific bus arrives, we can immediately take an action. People need to file complaints in regard to this matter." He also told that MSVS had agreed on communicating the details of defaulters if they find any but haven't spoken of any such buses as yet.
 
 Ganesh Kanharkar, Nagpur district head (rural), Nagpur sub-district heads, Gajendra Nerkar, Swapnil Borode, Mangesh Kule, Nagpur rural taluka head and others were also present at the press conference.
 
 
