BENGALURU: The BBMP’s plan to construct skywalks across Bengaluru seems to have hit a roadblock. The Palike is struggling to find bidders for skywalks at 35 locations.

 
 Under the project, skywalks are to be built on a public private partnership ( ) basis and managed on Build, Own, Operate and Transfer basis by private investors. Successful bidders are offered commercial advertisement rights as per the BBMP’s bylaws to earn revenues for a concession period of 30 years, including the time of construction.
 
 Since prospective bidders are interested only in maximising their advertisement revenue, there are very few takers for skywalks in parts of west and south zones, which aren’t considered as ‘fast-moving’ as the east zone, officials said.
 
 They also attribute the delay in installing skywalks to a long-drawn tender process, opposition from residents and leaders, and the tedious process of having to shift utilities from footpaths before starting work.
 
 “We’ve recently recalled tenders for 35 locations as they were no takers initially. For locations where projects are reserved for the SC/ST category, there have been cases where we have called for tenders up to nine times,” an official said.
 
 If there are no bidders after the first two calls in this category, the BBMP will shift it to the general category, as per the amended   Transparency in Public Procurement Act. “Even in the general category, we’ve reached the sixth or seventh call in a few locations. However, in the last few calls, we’ve seen rise in participation,” an official from the road infrastructure division said.
 
  
  
 
 Out of the 152 locations identified by the BBMP, skywalks are in place in 29 spots. Eighteen of these were built on the PPP model. While work is in progress at eight locations, and construction hasn't begun at 23 areas. For 35 locations, tenders were recalled in October, with the last day of submissions being January 16.
 
 “To increase participation, we will now be offering tenders on a viability-gap-funding (VGF) model. In the last year’s budget, the government had set aside Rs 80 crore for the purpose. We’ll tap into that and fund 20% of the project cost of each skywalk, which will work out to Rs 30 lakh each. We will offer this, especially in non-revenue earning areas,” the official said.
 
 The ongoing   work on the   has also affected the work. “Six to eight locations were identified for skywalks from   to KR Puram on the Ring Road. Since work on Metro Phase-II is coming up, we’ve been unable to execute the work, despite the project being approved,” the official added.
 
 According to urban expert  , the BBMP’s dependence on the PPP model while building skywalks is unviable.
 
 “The advertising industry is reinventing itself, and is starting to move towards online platform, and away from traditional methods. When it comes to building roads, the BBMP uses its own funds instead of depending on private firms. So why can’t they do the same for pedestrian-friendly infrastructure projects like skywalks and pavements? Why does building skywalks only become an option if they can get some revenue out of it,’’ he asked.
 
 
  
  
 
