BHOPAL: Ground reality and rules of the game changed as the   team hit the ground in the city to assess the veracity of “clean Bhopal” slogan on the second day of Swachh Survey. The otherwise neglected sanitation workers sweeping the roads were seen wearing jackets and putting on masks, something they were not provided during winter when they needed it more.

 The frenetic activities on the roads and by-lanes reminded the residents that time has come now to make the slogan “Ab   ki hai bari, number one ki hai taiyari,” which all the BMC vehicles had been blaring for over a month, is now to e translated into reality.
 
 In the previous Swachh Survey, Bhopal had come second in the country only after Indore, which topped the list of cities covered under the survey. When public relation officer (PRO), BMC, Harish Gupta, was asked which places did the QCI team visit in the course of the day, he said “We don’t know. It’s strictly confidential. They don’t disclose us the places where they go.” In this round of Swachhata Survey, 2000 cities are covered. The survey is conducted by the QCI team and they are accompanied by a senior government of India official, who acts as an observer. S S Dubey is the observer accompanying team which is visiting Bhopal. Dubey, visited Vardhaman Park and was also seen moving around Lake View road.
 
 The survey carries a total of 4,000 marks in which field visits held by the team to know the ground realities Vs claims of the local body concerned strangely carries the lowest of 1200 marks. Another 1400 marks are for documentation and the same number for feedback from citizens. Feedback from Bhopal citizens is continuing and could be given on phone no. 1969, informed Gupta.
 
 Not only the sanitation workers of BMC, it was a busy day for other staff, too, with garbage collecting vehicles active in different parts of the city right from the morning, electricity wing staff seen pruning trees which dangerously came close to electricity polls or lines. BMC staff was deployed along railway lines and also the garbage dump at Adampur Chhawani and Bhanpur Khanti. In the light of recent fire at the close landfill at Bhanpur, special vigilance is being maintained at the garbage dumping grounds.
 
 Mayor, Alok Sharma and BMC commissioner, Priyanka Das, also toured various spots in the city to take stock of preparations for the Swacchata Survey. Towards the evening, Sharma, in his SUV with three more vehicles in toe arrived at Press Complex and put garbage mainly comprising dry leaves and flowers into a garbage collecting van.
 
 However, hectic BMC efforts to win Bhopal the cleanest city award in the survey has not convinced its citizens. Convener of NGO, Sadprayas, Abdul Jabbar said “just by employing some more women to sweep the roads, swacchata is not attained. BMC has failed to do fundamental things required to keep the city clean. Despite Green Tribunal getting after them, slaughterhouse could not be shifted. Fish & chicken market in Itwara was proposed to be shifted but it could not happen. That place stinks for someone who doesn’t eat fish or chicken. More than 200 meat shops in Islampura was supposed to be shifted to vacant government land near Sultania Hospital but it didn’t happen.
 
 Solid waste disposal is still an unresolved problem in the city. Sewage from hospitals is going into Motia talab. Sewage from colonies like Koh-e-Fiza is going into   but there has been no effort to stop it. There has been no effort to protect the historical monuments in the city, which are in plenty”, he said.
 
 The QCI team is likely to continue with its job at Bhopal for next three to four days more.
 
