For the shooting of the upcoming film Humble Politiciann   (HPN), there were several scenes that required the protagonist, played by  , to engage massive crowds, him being a politician in it. To make that happen, the actor and director   came up with an innovative idea — inviting people on social media to be a part of the shoot. Not only did the turnout far exceed the expectations of the team, they even turned out to be a dream to work with.
Danish says, “We had about 3-4 scenes in the film that required Nograj to address the crowd, and we were contemplating how to go about it, when we got the idea to announce the shoot schedule on social media to invite the public as crowd for the film. Of course we were hoping some people would turn up, but not close to 350 people! They stood in the sun for hours, were very well-behaved and understanding and made the entire process a stress-free one. We were very glad we did this, and on my part, at the final shoot, I made it a point to take selfies with every single one of them to show my gratitude for their efforts.”
 The crowd was an enthusiastic bunch, so much so that they all wore suits and ties for a scene that required them to be so. Danish says, “I’m not a big star, who has a lot of fans and says stuff like audience is everything. But I appreciate effort. If so many people came out and supported us in their own ways, then it’s only fair to call this movie as ‘our film’, not ‘my film’.” He adds that he was impressed with the way in which Saad tactfully got the crowd to act for the climax sequence. “Saad went up to them, and asked them all to imagine they’re in the finals of an India-Pakistan   match. Once he made that reference, it was easy to get them all to act. If he wanted them to look nervous, he asked them to imagine it’s the last over, or when he wanted them to explode with joy, he asked them to picture   scoring a winning six. It was beautiful to watch,” adds Danish. According to Saad, the reason to do that was two-fold. “Having worked with   sir, who made films with huge crowds such as Lagaan, I learnt a lot about crowd management. Going into HPN, I knew there would be many such scenes. So, I used the analogy of cricket to get the crowd to act for two reasons — one, as a cricket-loving nation, it would be easy for them to relate to it and act accordingly, and, two, we did not want to reveal the plot just to elicit appropriate expressions from the crowd,” he says.
 
