MUMBAI:   national of Indian origin   (76), who was reported   for 2 weeks, resurfaced on Thursday and blamed her broken down   for being unable to communicate with her children. Pillay was in Mumbai on a vacation and had boarded the Bhubaneswar Express on February 23. But her cellphone was unreachable and she did not reach Odisha, which prompted her South Africa-based daughter to fear the worst. Pillay’s UK-based   flew down to Odisha to hunt for her even as she returned to Mumbai, having toured two other states and clueless about her family’s efforts to contact her.

 “Pillay had stayed at a Colaba guest house from February 21-23. Her daughter touched base with the guest house manager and urged him to lodge a missing complaint on March 2. We tracked her last phone location to Gondia in Maharashtra. We found a co-passenger who overheard her mentioning that she was to visit an ailing friend in a Bhubaneswar  ,” said inspector Mahesh Balwantrao of Kurla GRP. 
 
 It turns out that Pillay’s cellphone broke down and she could not get it repaired as she was travelling. “She reached Bhubaneswar on schedule but could not locate the hospital as she had an incorrect address. She stayed at a guest house at Bhubaneswar for three days as she tried to locate the hospital. Eventually, she took a train and went to Howrah in Bengal. She stayed there for five days before moving to Varanasi. She stayed at the holy city for a longer period,” said a police officer. All this while, her family prepared flyers, appealing to people for help, and newspapers in South Africa reported her disappearance. 
 
 Pillay took a train out of Varanasi and reached Mumbai early on Thursday. As she walked back into the Colaba guest house, where she has stayed frequently during previous visits to India, the staff could not believe their eyes. TOI had reported her disappearance on Wednesday and the guest house staff, who had been praying for her return, immediately informed the Kurla GRP. ”Pillay told us that she was safe and sound and the communication gap had created confusion. We have informed her son,” said Balwantrao. 
 
 Pillay, who has two children and four grandchildren, had moved to Johannesburg with her daughter, Mala, 20 years ago. She had been travelling away from South Africa since last November and was to visit friends in India. Her family had also sought assistance from the South African consulate here.
 
 
