BENGALURU: More than three months since   and his associates allegedly beat up L Vidvat, 24, at a  , police have no clue as to the whereabouts of one of the accused in the incident.

 
 While six others, including Nalapad, remain in judicial custody at Central jail, Sri Krishna has proved to be elusive and is still at large.
 
 Police have booked an attempt-to-murder case against eight men — including Sri Krishna — for their part in the incident that occurred on the night of February 17 and made headlines across the country. One of the seven arrested — Abhishek — recently obtained bail.
 
 However, sleuths from the   ( ), who are probing the case, are still trying to track down Krishna, believed to be a resident of Koramangala and who, according to police, runs gambling dens. Since Krishna does not carry a mobile phone, an officer investigating the case said it is difficult to track him down.
 
 Efforts to track him through his family have also drawn a blank. Krishna’s family told police they had all but disowned him because of his illegal activities. They reportedly said Krishna rarely met or spoke to any of them. “Due to his habits and contacts with nefarious elements, we had stopped talking with him,” the family told police. “Krishna rarely comes home and even then for a few hours. We don’t know where he is now.”
 
 Police said they are inclined to believe the family’s version. “Examination of call records show that none of the family members are in touch with him,” senior officer said. “Surprisingly, he has not contacted an advocate too. Perhaps, he is well aware that if he files for anticipatory bail, his plea will be turned down.”
 
 Although the case can proceed without Krishna being arrested, police need his statement to present a complete case. “We will file a supplementary chargesheet once we arrest Krishna,” police said. “The chargesheet will include Krishna’s statement, among others.”
 
 But did Krishna play a part in the alleged attack? “CCTV footage shows he was amongst the group that had attacked Vidvat,” a senior police officer said. “Unless we arrest and question him, we cannot decide what part he played in the crime.”
 
 While Abhishek, the seventh accused in the assault case, obtained bail on grounds that he wasn’t carrying a lethal weapon during the attack, the courts, including the high court, has denied bail petitions of the other accused.
 
 
