KOLKATA: Thirty percent of Sotheby’s next auction on Modern and Contemporary South Asian Art at New York will have works of artists from the   school. While this includes works of Jamini Roy, Ganesh Pyne, Benod Behari Mukherjee and  , some unseen works of   too will go under the hammer. The works were sourced from the private collection of Helen Gordon, the wife of a senior American diplomat to India, Herb Gordon.

 Edward Gibbs, the chairman (Middle-East and India) of Sotheby’s, along with colleagues Benedict Carter, the director, head of auction sales (Middle East), and  , the managing director (India), are in the city in the run-up to a Sotheby’s auction in New York on March 19 are particularly excited about the Bhattacharjee works going under the hammer. Said Gibbs, “This is my first trip to Kolkata. I am happy that at least 30% of the collction in our next auction will have works of artists from this city,” Gibbs said. Referring to Bhattacharjee’s work, Bhatia said, “There are a few of his works going under the hammer. The estimated price for one untitled oil on canvas was painted between 1964-72 is between $ 1,20,000 - $ 1,80,000. This is the most expensive Bikash Bhattacharjee work to go under the hammer,” said Bhatia.
 
 
 
  
  
 Bhattacharjee’s family, not completely new to auctions of the iconic painter’s works, wasn’t aware of this auction though. According to Bivas, Bhattacharjee’s son, this particular art work is “rare”. “I haven’t ever seen it. We don’t have any paintings from this series in our family collection. It is a pleasure that Sotheby’s has sourced this and is going to auction. The valuation is decent.”
 
 Bhattcharjee’s wife Parbati hadn’t come across any work of her husband that had fetched such a “high price”. “The maximum I had heard that his painting had fetched was Rs 54 lakh. To have an estimated price of over a crore for this work is a pleasant surprise. His works often don’t make it to the auctions. Collectors mostly buy his work for the love of it than as investment purpose. Besides, most of his portraits come up for sale. It is nice that his cityscape is being highlighted,” she said.
 
 Parbati has faint memories of having seen this work at Bhattacharjee’s studio. “We got married during 1973. I must have seen this work then. After that I haven’t ever come across it,” she said. On being told that this work was from the collection of Helen Gordon - the wife of the American consul general in Kolkata from 1968 to 1973 – Parbati could remember the couple. “I have met them at a party. We have a photograph with them too,” she said.
 
 The story goes that when Helen had shifted to Kolkata, she was fascinated by the “unexpected vitality” of contemporary artists from the Bengal school. She would often invite the artistes over for lunch. The artists came early with several of their works which were carefully displayed through the residence.
 
 Bhattacharjee’s “Rooftops of Calcutta” was among those that had caught Helen’s attention. In them, she had recognised the city’s surreal, magical quality. The Sotheby’s catalogue mentions that Helen had intended to “buy more than one in the series, didn’t argue prices and wasn’t willing to take no for an answer. As she later reminisced, The Bikash Bhattacharjee painting in browns would find its way up the grand 42-step staircase of the Calcutta residence to the wide landing between floors. It was impossible to photograph there so high up it seemed to be among the rooftops itself. The Gordons formed a warm friendship with the artist and when they left Kolkata, Bhattacharjee gifted them a watercolour of their favourite subject – Calcutta’s rooftops.” This watercolour on paper, gifted by Bhattacharjee on July 7, 1973, is also up for auction. The estimated price of the water colour is $ 10,000 - $ 15,000.
 
 
