BIDAR: Ridiculing   for fielding brothers and confidants of tainted mining baron G Janardhana Reddy in the assembly elections,   president   on Thursday said Prime Minister   had got his party to field the entire clan of Gabbar Singh of Sholay in the assembly elections.

 
 "In Sholay, there was Gabbar Singh. You brought Gabbar Singh Tax (an allusion to GST) but this time you have gone even further. You have fielded the entire gang of Gabbar Singh including Gabbar, Sambha, Kalia, and all of them... And you tell the country that you are fighting against corruption,'' Rahul told a Congress rally in Aurad town of Bidar, 690 km north of Bengaluru.
 
 In another rally at Bhalki, Rahul asked Modi to explain to the people of   why he also chose a tainted B S Yeddyurappa as the party's chief ministerial face for Karnataka.
 
 Hitting back at Modi for making personal attacks on him, Rahul said the PM's statement against him does not befit a person holding high office and he does not want to counter it by making personal attacks since Modi is the PM. He was referring to Modi's challenge to him to talk about the Congress government's achievements in Karnataka without a paper in hand for 15 minutes.
 
 "The PM has nothing to say about Karnataka and has no plans for the people of the state. That is why he resorts to personal attacks against me. His jibes are unbecoming of a Prime Minister. Whenever Modi is afraid... he launches a personal attack and talks ill of a person. That is the difference between me and him," Rahul said.
 
 Modi should instead speak of his party's plan for Karnataka's growth or the scams that are being perpetrated in the country. "Why are you now trying to bring the Reddy brothers into the assembly? Nirav Modi ran off with Rs 30,000 crore. What have you done on that front? Why was your mouth shut then? In Rafale (deal), you snatched the contract from (public sector) HAL. You bought the aircraft which was to cost Rs 700 crore apiece for Rs 1500 crore. You snatched jobs from youths and while doing this you gave the contract to your friend. Why don't you talk about these things than making personal attacks,'' Rahul asked.
 
 Rahul said the election is between two ideologies - Congress' ideology of unity, compassion and inclusive Karnataka, and BJP-RSS' ideology of hatred and division.
 
