It’s time for India’s youngest generation to put on their dancing shoes and dazzle the viewers; Li’l Masters returns with Season 4 tonight on Zee TV. In sync with the channel’s brand philosophy Aaj Likhenge Kal, the platform gives wings to the aspirations of young dance enthusiasts, empowering them to take charge of their destiny and pursue their passion for dance. Having introduced viewers to talented kids like Faisal Khan, Harpreet, Jeetumoni and Teriya Magar among others, Li’l Masters, in its latest season, celebrates the unmatched dancing talent that sets the ‘Blockbuster Bacche’ apart from the rest. Their performances are sure to win them an instant following. Guiding, coaching and mentoring the little dance prodigies through their journey will be two reality TV debutantes from Bollywood — the gorgeous actress   and the multi-faceted director  . 
Along with ace choreographer  , who has been an integral part of the Li’l Masters family across seasons, they will help the contestants strike a perfect balance between dance and drama in their performances.
 
 Ask Chitrangda why she chose this show for her television debut and she says, “I have never done TV before and I wanted to do this kind of a show, which has a mass connect.” Says Chitrangda, “This is the perfect platform to come closer to my audience, my fans and to the people that I haven’t been able to reach so far. Also, it’s a show that is most watched. It’s about children, it’s a fun show. And, I love dancing.” Her experiences as a woman, an actor and a dancer will help her motivate and guide the contestants, she says. “As an actress, I’ll look at contestants as performers; it’s about a complete performance, focusing on expressions, emotions and the emotional connect. I’ve learnt Kathak and have danced on screen, so I know how difficult it is to put up a full one-and-a-half minute performance. There is a lot of effort that goes into it,” she says. Apart from judging, Chitrangda is also looking forward to shaking a leg with the kids. “I am a little nervous because the talent on stage is going to be amazing. I want to be as good as them,” she smiles.
 
 Siddharth Anand, who’s enjoying his new role as a judge, says the transition has been pretty organic. “On the set of my film, in a way, I also judge talent, and direct them. There, it’s my vision. Here, there’s a creative director with whom I have extensive discussions on what their vision is for the show and what they want to portray. I love the passion that this team has; it matches the passion that I have for my work,” says Siddharth, who has done his homework. Talking about the workshops that he has attended, he says, “I learnt about various dance forms and the technical terms used, and also watched episodes of previous seasons and dance shows from across the world. As a director, I expect an actor or technician that I sign, to give his 120 per cent. I believe in doing the same,” he says.
 
 So what qualities will he look for in the blockbuster bacche? “I will take a holistic approach and will be looking at the stories that they are trying to tell through their dance, expressions, costumes, overall presentation and how well they use the stage. I’ll leave the technicalities to my co-judge Marzi.”
 
 The humourous Marzi, who has been a judge on the show for the past three seasons, says he thanks his stars that he’s not a part of this dancing era. “Otherwise, I’d be holding props! Look at how talented the contestants on Li’l Masters are. It’s always a high to judge these kids because of the talent they possess,” exclaims Marzi. Ask him if he has managed to break the ice with his new co-judges and he says, “Of course. I am a true Parsi — warm, friendly and full of masti. We all hit it off very well from day one.” Any piece of advice for them? “Have a blast on the show. Actually, the three of us are already having a blast with the kids. We are one big happy family and that’s what makes our show so special,” says Marzi. The trio is only too glad to start their new journey, which begins on Zee TV tonight, as they look forward to power-packed performances by the blockbuster bacche.
 
 
