PONDA: Falling one seat short from gaining a simple majority, ‘Rising Ponda’ panel, backed by Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), is set to rule   Municipal Council (PMC). 

 Forming the largest group, the panel won seven seats in the 15-member civic body. PWD minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said that his panel will form the council with the support of BJP-backed panel - ‘Ponda Nagrik Samiti’ -which won five seats. Congress-backed panel ‘Ponda Citizens Progressive Front’ floated by Ponda MLA Ravi Naik won three seats. No independent candidate won this time. 
 
 Two candidates from the Dhavalikar panel won by a single digit margin.
 
 “Voters reposed faith in my panel because of development activities initiated by me over the years,” said Dhavalikar. On the other hand, Naik said, “‘Rising Ponda’ panel could get a majority only because of the promises made by the PWD minister offering jobs to the youth.” BJP-backed panel’s in-charge Sunil Desai said that his panel will pitch for the post of chairperson as it had senior councillors.
 
 In the 2013 election, the MGP-BJP panel won 11 seats and the Congress panel had just one. There were two independent councillors in the 14-member council in 2013. 
 
 Five-time Ponda MLA Naik got his elder son Ritesh Naik elected in ward 11, reserved for other backward class (OBC) candidates. His younger son, Roy, had failed to get elected in the 2013 poll. Ritesh is debuting in civic politics after losing to Dhavalikar in the 2012 election to the Goa state assembly from Madkai constituency.
 
 While seven of the sitting councillors, Radhika Nayak, Vidhya Punalekar, Shanti Naik, Sunil Desai, Shivanand Sawant and Vincent Paul Fernandes did not contest the polls, Fernandes’ wife Seema and Sawant’s wife Jaya stepped into the fray and got elected.
 
 Of the seven sitting councillors, four candidates could retain their seats. The closest win was that of Geetali Talaulicar in Ward 15. She won the seat by three votes over Congress-backed Kishore Naik.
 
 
