MUMBAI: They may have been left feeling deflated after a stunning assault by   on Saturday night saw them lose the IPL-11 opener to the   despite being in a winning position, but the   had something to cheer about from the game.

 
 In  , a leg-spinner who picked up three wickets, including CSK skipper MS Dhoni, with his deadly googlies, they discovered a new talent who, skipper   feels, could be a "great weapon" for the team in the league.
 
 "I played against him in the nets a few times. A leg-spinner is an option which gives you that wicket-taking option in the middle overs, and that is what exactly happened. He has got great control. He will be a great weapon for us. He has got great skills. I and Mahela (Jayawardene, MI coach) just have to be supportive to this guy. He has got everything that he needs to be successful at the highest level," praised Rohit at a promotional event on Monday.
 
 Analysing his team's shocking defeat at the hands of CSK, Rohit said: "There were certain things that we did not do right in the pressure situation. We were in the game till the 17th over. In the last three overs the game drifted away from us. You cannot do much about it. (At the) Wankhede it is always difficult to contain batsmen once they are set. With the dew and all those factors, it is hard for the bowlers, but that is not an excuse."
 
 The skipper also defended seamer  , who went for 20 runs in the 19th over as Bravo smashed him for three sixes. "Bumrah is one of the highest-rated Indian death bowlers. Anyone can have a bad day. We know it is not the end of the world and the Mumbai Indians have always lost the first game and won the title. I hope it is the same this year," he said.
 
 The MI captain is confident that his India and MI teammate will bounce back strongly after Saturday's mauling. "Yes, of course (he will make a strong comeback). He is a very strong character. Games like this teaches you more as an individual and he has played enough now to understand how he needs to comeback from those situations. He also knows that there is a lot of pressure on him, as in responsibility. He is there to enjoy that moment, and he wants to take it up as a challenge. Games like this will happen but again, he will still be our best bowler," backed Rohit. 
 
 MI had an injury concern when   had to be carried off the field after colliding with Dwayne Bravo, but Rohit was upbeat about him remaining fit for the season.
 
