NEW DELHI: A 22-year-old biker met a tragic end early Thursday morning when his throat was slit by a black telephone wire tied by cops across a road checkpoint in northwest Delhi. The biker was trying to cross the   from one side and didn't spot the wire in time.

 Eyewitnesses said that the victim, Abhishek  , flew off his bike as his neck got stuck in the wire and flipped in the air before landing on his head. The chord was at a height of about 5 feet at the barricade at Shakurpur. Kashyap, a DJ, was returning from a performance at a relative's wedding.
 
  
  
 
 Another biker was injured by the wire barely minutes before the death of Kashyap, locals said.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 DCP (northwest) Aslam Khan said a case under sections 304A (causing death due to negligence) has been registered. “We have initiated disciplinary action and an enquiry against the policemen involved,” she said. The area SHO, Arvind Kumar, was sent to the district lines while seven others, including a subinspector, were suspended.
 
 
 
 The accident happened around 1am near the threelaned F-block road leading to Kashyap’s home. The barricades were put up in the middle of both carriageways, leaving space for two-wheelers to pass from either side. However, the black wire tied across the road was nearly invisible in the dim streetlight.
 
 Joginder, an eyewitness who owns a car-servicing shop in the area, said Kashyap had tried to go past one of the barricades from the left side. “He was probably travelling at about 50kmph. When he hit the wire, the bike skid and he was flung a few feet up in the air and landed on his head across the wire,” he said.
 
 Locals said Kashyap lay on the road for some time before one of his neighbours, Shiva, found him and informed a friend who runs an ambulance. He was taken to the Baba Saheb Ambedkar hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.
 
 “I found him a few minutes after the accident but could not get any help from anyone. More than 20 minutes had passed by the time we could identify him, call an ambulance and take him to a hospital. The PCR was informed but we were on our way to the hospital by the time police arrived,” said Shiva.
 
 Locals said minutes before the accident, another youth had got caught in the wire. However, he escaped with minor injuries as he had managed to slow down. The youth, Naveen, said he hit the wire but was saved because he was wearing a helmet. “I suffered injuries on my throat and did not fall off the bike since I had slowed down,” he said.
 
 Joginder said his cousin, Vijay, too had got caught in the wire and suffered throat injuries while returning from a friend’s house two days back. “He too was saved since he had noticed the wire at the last moment and slowed down,” said Joginder.
 
 Locals say that while the barricades were put up on the stretch every day to stop incidents of snatching and vehicle thefts, cops occasionally tied the wire to hold the barricades in place. “If the wire had been put up every day, we would have warned the residents about it. But cops would tie it infrequently,” said Sonu, aresident.
 
 
 
 
