GURUGRAM: The state government has issued directions to the civic agencies in Gurugram to carry out development works in unauthorised   within municipal corporation limits. 

 While the department of town and country planning ( ) has been asked to ensure that no further construction takes places in these colonies, MCG is entrusted with the job of collecting development charges from property owners.
 
 “As per the policy mechanism, DTCP has been instructed to ensure that no further construction takes place in these unauthorised colonies. And the property owners with vacant plots have been asked to submit building plans compliant with the   Building Code to avoid any further violations,”  , senior town planner of MCG, said on Monday.
 
 “The corporation has also been asked to individually and publicly ask the property owners to submit its building plans and the development charges at the earliest so that the government can start the work on the regularisation of these areas,” he added. However, the government has made it clear that no commercial buildings, private institutions, schools and community buildings in these colonies will be regularised.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that MCG has taken over 15 unauthorised colonies in Gurugram for infrastructure development under the Haryana Management of Civic Amenities and Infrastructure Deficient Municipal Areas (special provisions) Act, 2016. However, no work would be done in these areas unless the residents pay the development charges.
 
 “We need to collect 50% of the development charges from the property owners in these areas at the rate of Rs 1,250 per sq ft and until the residents from these areas pay the development charges, we would not be able to start the infrastructure works,” said Chouhan.
 
 This amount has to be collected by the resident welfare associations constituted and registered for individual colonies. The amount collected will be kept in an escrow account which will be transferred to the municipality concerned. 
 
 In order to get the residents to pay early, the government has also announced rebates. Plot owners paying development charges before April 30 will get a rebate of 10% rebate in development charges. And to make the payments easier, residents can also pay in six instalments.
 
 
