NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought minor tweaking of the   scheme framed by the Centre to implement the court’s February 16 judgment on water sharing after taking the views of  ,   and Puducherry, which left   fretting.

 
 A bench of CJI Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud took into account the three states’ views and asked the Centre to make minor changes in the scheme, including moving the headquarters of the supervisory body from Bengaluru to Delhi on Tamil Nadu’s suggestion.
 
 The   also asked the Centre to reword two provisions on the functioning of the supervising authority, giving overriding powers to the Union government to step in if a riparian state did not comply with the supervising body’s directive, and the body taking “any other” directions from the Centre.
 
 Tamil Nadu’s counsel Shekhar Naphade said the supervising body should be named Cauvery Board but attorney general K K Venugopal said it was a sensitive issue and the Centre would go by the SC’s suggestion. The SC brushed aside other objections raised by Kerala and Puducherry and said, “We will not allow raking up of Cauvery dispute yet again through such objections. All inter-state rivers are national assets.”
 
 Karnataka, through counsel Shaym Divan, said, “The state was disabled from giving its views on an important issue like Cauvery scheme, which will remain in operation for the next 15 years, as the process of government formation is on. Please defer finalisation of the scheme till July... If it was framed by the Centre within six weeks of the February 16 judgment, the deadline fixed by the SC, the state could have given its views.”
 
 Naphade objected to the demand for deferment and said it was a ploy to rob Tamil Nadu of its share of water which was due for release in June. “If it is deferred to July, I am sure Tamil Nadu will not get its share of water due in June,” he said. The bench asked the attorney general to modify the scheme and bring it for approval on Thursday.
 
 For Kerala, senior advocate Jaideep Gupta complained that the state was to receive only 4% of the total Cauvery water having been allotted 30 tmcft as its share, but the scheme envisaged it to share 15% of the supervising body’s running cost.
 
