JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh Medical College’s advanced research and TB laboratory under department of microbiology received accreditation from the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). This means that after being granted   accreditation, the   Hospital’s laboratory will provide a sense of assurance about the availability of quality healthcare service to its patients. To get the accreditation, the laboratory has maintained stringent internal and external quality control practices.

 Accreditation of clinical laboratories is undertaken by NABL under the department of science and technology. The compliance for requirements under   15189 is used as the criteria for such accreditation by the NABL. “We had applied for NABL accreditation for our lab. After that a pre-assessment of the lab was done. Now, NABL accreditation has been granted to us,” said Dr  , senior professor (department of microbiology), SMS Medical College.
 
 In the letter issued to SMS Medical College, NABL mentioned, “Accreditation to your laboratory in accordance with ISO 15189: 2012 in the field of medical testing as per the scope (microbiology and serology) and authorised signatories recommended by the assessment team.” 
 
 The NABL has granted the accreditation for two years that is subject to satisfactory compliance to the terms and conditions for maintaining NABL accreditation. NABL also clarifies that there will be an on-site surveillance visit on completion of 10 months to verify continued compliance to NABL requirement. 
 
 The SMS Hospital’s laboratories remained busy as around 10,000 patients come to hospital for treatment at the outpatient department. They need diagnosis of diseases for their treatment. While providing services to patients coming in large numbers, maintaining quality of services also become a challenging task.
 
 Besides, the health department will also make efforts to get NABL accreditation for its food test labs, after developing them completely.
 
 
