KOCHI: When you see a necrotic coconut or relatively-smaller  , you can infer that this could have been caused by   in the soil. Elements like copper, manganese, zinc, iron, boron, molybdenum and sulphur that are essential for plant growth but required in relatively-low quantities are called micronutrients. For farmers, malnutrition in plants due to deficiency of these elements, is a concern as it drags down productivity and profits.

 The first signs of this problem became visible in   recently when Rajakumari pepper, the finest grade of black pepper, fell victim to this deficiency, bringing down the quantity of ‘garbled, extra-bold’ berries that could be yielded from a 100kg of dried pepper corns to 25kg. The usual output was 40kg. And this problem is not restricted to pepper alone; almost all agri products in Kerala are affected.
 
 
 “The right combination of micronutrients is essential to ensure a healthy plant as each plant might be sensitive to a particular micronutrient deficiency; say coconut to boron or paddy to zinc. If unchecked, this deficiency could affect the overall productivity at farms,” said additional director, department of soil survey and soil conservation Anitha Kumari M.
 
 Now, help is at hand in the form of   (SHC) – promoted by department of agriculture & cooperation. The central scheme looks at various aspects of the soil and helps farmer manage its health.
 
 During the first cycle of the project, 2.53 crore samples were collected from different areas of the country. During the second cycle another 1.14 crore samples were, collected. 
  
 
 As part of this work (during 2010-14) national   (NBSS) extensively surveyed Kerala and gained insights into soil quality. It found areas deficient in macronutrients and micronutrients.
 
 For example, the deficiency of macronutrient calcium was pronounced in Onattukara sands and Wayanad plateau, while its deficiency was negligible in Kumily and Marayur hills, Attapadi, central and eastern Palakkad. On the other hand, extensive deficiency of micronutrient sulphur was recorded for Onattukara sands, Kumily hills and Wayanad plateau.
 
 The project, which analyzed 2 lakh soil samples for macro, secondary and micronutrients, later prepared a nutrient management plan (NMP). However, principal investigator of the project K M Nair said that deeper issues were causing this deficiency.
 
 He said the indiscriminate use of NPK fertilizers led to the low yield of black pepper in highranges. “To counter acidity in soil, farmers in Malabar have traditionally used lime. During Green Revolution in 70s, scientists ignored it. Uncontrolled use of NPK fertilizers resulted in soil acidity,” said Nair, a principal scientist with NBSS during the project.
 
 “Acidity in the subsoil inhibits the penetration of roots (of black pepper, banana or cardamom plants) from soil to subsoil. So, the plant will be unable to absorb nutrients from subsoil. It will be unable to absorb water from subsoil during summer, when the soil is dry,” Nair said. To bring down this acidity, he suggested the use of gypsum with agricultural lime.
 
 Indian Institute of Spices Research (IISR), Kozhikode, has developed micronutrients customised for black pepper, ginger and turmeric. “These are foliar sprays which have immediate effect on plants. Farmers who used the sprays said that flowering became uniform the very next year,” said P Rajeev, principal scientist, IISR.
 
 Meanwhile, the state agri department is getting soil sampled in each panchayat to address the deficiencies and imbalances of nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. Officials said that Kudumbashree workers are being trained to take samples. It will take at least three years for recharging the soils.
 
 Climate change another factor
 
 KOCHI: Variations in temperature, maximum and minimum rainfall and relative humidity are impacting different plantation crops, especially cardamom. These variations have led to changes in soil temperatures with the destruction of tree cover. Studies conducted by scientists of Indian Cardamom Research Institute (ICRI) showed that temperature variations were evident across stations and that the mean air temperature increased significantly over the past 30 years.
 
 The rainfall during monsoon (June-September) showed a downward trend. Relative humidity showed increasing and decreasing trends, respectively at small cardamom and tea growing tracts. “The warming trend, coupled with frequent wet and dry spells during summer, had a favourable effect on insect pests and disease-causing organisms. So, pesticide consumption went up both during excess rainfall and drought years. The incidence of many minor pests, insects and disease pathogens has increased in the recent years along with warming,” said director of ICRI in Idukki A K Vijayan.
 
 
 These detrimental environmental impacts on large cardamom agriculture can be minimized only if micronutrient issue is redressed and by adapting organic cultivation.
 
 
