BENGALURU: For two years now, residents of   in southeast Bengaluru, which is home to many techies and IT companies, have been asking the   (BBMP) to fix the two dilapidated   (DWCCs) in their ward. But their requests have drawn a blank.

 Though the residents have pooled resources and undertaken several initiatives to fix the centres, there has been no positive response from the civic agency. As a result, waste collection, especially of hazardous plastic, has become a menace. The ward has a population of over 80,000, according to the 2011 census.
 
 Seema Sharma of Kasamukta Bellandur, an Citizen Volunteer Group, that looks into waste management, says that according to the high court directions, Bellandur — one of the larger wards in the city which is spread over 26sqkm — needs at least three DWCCs. “While one such centre established three years ago near Kodathi Gate has turned into a dumpyard, another at Dodda Kannelli is in a bad shape and functions at a lower capacity. It only has four walls with no drinking water or toilet facilities for the 17 workers employed there,” she added.
 
 Seema said citizen volunteers in the ward have approached officials and elected representatives on multiple occasions but to no avail. “We managed to get a technology giant on board, who agreed to repair the DWCCs under its CSR programme, but we aren’t getting BBMP’s commitment to take the project forward. In the absence of proper DWCCs, dry waste is either getting mixed with wet waste or is being tossed in drains or lakes,” she added.
 
 Repeated efforts to contact BBMP joint commissioner (Mahadevapura zone) BV Vasanthi Amar went in vain.
 
 Same story in Jakkasandra ward
 
 NS Ramakanth, member of the expert committee on solid waste management, said Bellandur is just one example of the sorry state of DWCCs in the city. “In some other wards of Mahadevapura, including the Whitefield area, residents have been asking either for space for new centres or demanding that existing ones be repaired. The same is the case in Jakkasandra ward near Koramangala. A waste unit just needs an area of about 3,000sqft. The high court has clearly put the onus of fixing the waste processing plants on the respective zonal joint commissioners of BBMP. They should work responsibly,” he added. Ramakanth said the Palike should make use of the space below flyovers to process dry waste if there is severe shortage of land.
 
 
