Much ink has been spilt over   who was coveted by   in the 13th century AD. Now imagine this modern-day scenario:   is the hard-charging CEO of a startup which is challenging the established order. One day he hears of the beauteous Padma, an up and coming manager in the Gurgaon office. He summons her for a meeting and can’t stop staring at her throughout. While all she can do is look down on her reflection on the conference room table.

 In the year 2018, Amorous Al doesn’t need a white steed, chainmail and an army of blood-thirsty soldiers. All he needs is Padma’s mobile phone number. He starts sending her flirty text messages. GMs. GNs. Dinner invitations. Virtual kisses. Padma does not know how to respond — she is not interested, but she needs the job. There are EMIs to pay and besides, the role is great. Maybe ‘no reply’ is a reply? He will get the hint?
 
 Padma finds out the hard way — that’s not going to happen. She confides in a friend, considers lodging a complaint under POSH (Prevention of Sexual Harassment Act). “Are you out of your mind?” says the friend. That would be “professional jauhar”. So what does Padma do? Urgently, desperately, scout for another job. She accepts an offer which pays a bit less, and it’s not that great a company either. But guess what, the HR guy in her current company puts an adverse remark in her relieving letter. 
 
 This is an imaginary tale but versions of it are playing out in real life, across junior, middle and senior management in corporate India. Many months after #MeToo broke out in the US, cost   his company and Kevin Spacey his ( ) presidency, there isn’t much impact in India. Beyond Facebook posts, some Twitter noise and a few perfunctory articles, I would go so far as to say #MeToo is #Humtoaisehainnahin. Aur hain bhi — toh kya kar loge?
 
 The head of a well-known private equity fund was having an affair with his executive assistant. This was expressly forbidden in the rule book of the company. When the affair was discovered, the senior management took action. They transferred the lady in question to New York. The man received a gentle rap on his knuckles, and continues to be CEO. Last heard he’d found several reasons to visit New York on an urgent and regular basis. 
 
 The question that many will ask is — what’s wrong if it’s a consensual affair between two adults? The issue is the power asymmetry — a top manager who can make or break your career shows an interest in you. Does the woman really have a choice? This is the textbook definition of sexual harassment. However, the lure of the forbidden fruit and knowledge that ‘I can get away with it’ means many will attempt it anyway. And they will be successful.
 So, are women helpless, powerless and clueless in these situations? Not always. There are those who enter or even initiate asymmetrical relationships, in order to boost their careers. If and when things sour, they cry wolf. A senior HR person says she knows of many CEOs who are now wary of interacting with their women colleagues. Because you never know when someone might be upset about a poor performance appraisal but allege sexual harassment.
 
 Things are complicated. A few serial offenders have, at last, been exposed and knocked off their pedestals. But what is really needed is a complete cultural shift. There are more workshops on POSH as well as internal complaints committees being set up, as per   guidelines. And that’s a welcome first step. But too few women feel confident to speak up. And too few workplaces are truly committed to a value system of zero tolerance.
 There are, of course, exceptions. I recently heard a heartening story about an HR head who was almost recruited by a large startup. Until the background check revealed a tendency of (literally) rubbing women employees the wrong way. Although he checked off all other boxes, the candidate was dropped like a hot potato. This crucial information, which came from informal sources, was given its due. When will this become the widely accepted attitude, the rigorously implemented norm? 
 (
 ’)
 
 
