Imagine you are locked up in a room and you can’t find a way out. Now imagine there is no one to help you. While your family says it is just a phase and a bout of fresh air may help you get over it, your friends often pull your leg for being a cry baby. This hypothetical situation is just an attempt to portray how a person in   feels. But with stars like   and   speaking about their battle against this monster, it’s become easier to discuss the ravaging effects 
of depression. 
 
 Lack of awareness
 Battling depression is not easy. While simple viral fever or headache calls for medical attention, mental illness often goes unnoticed, largely because of the patient’s discomfort is just not visible. Moreover, the social taboo surrounding depression often makes things worse. “People are talking about 8% body fat, keto diet and other lifestyle issues but not mental health. Perhaps that is the reason we see Hollywood stars being more vocal about their depression than Indian celebrities,” says Dr Supratim Akaash Paul, celebrity wellness consultant and counsellor.
 
 Change in lifestyle
 With the drastic change in lifestyle and influence of social media, cases of depression are on rise. Actor   says, “I read that by 2020, depression will be one of the biggest ailments for our civilisation. I believe it is largely because of our lifestyle. Moner osukh toh shorireo probhab fele. The social taboo of equating depression to mental disorder has to be addressed.”
 “I have seen plummeting dopamine level — a brain chemical responsible for feeling good — in my patients for not getting Facebook likes — such is the plight,” reveals Dr Paul. “Pressures of social media, work related targets, relationship complications and unhealthy lifestyle — all lead to stress, which gives rise to anxiety, disorders and depression,” says the doctor. 
 
 Uphill task
 “Mon thakle mon kharap hobe,” snaps actress Sreelekha Mitra. “With the constant change in our lifestyle, the influence of the virtual world and social media are largely responsible for depression. But why just blame that? We have to be aware. We need to find ‘me time’. I’ve been through depression during my separation and I took the help of experts,” the actress adds. 
 Priyanka Sarkar, who battled depression a few years ago, shares her story with us. “I have always been an introvert and my parents used to call me ragi bachcha,” she says. “It took me a while to realise that I am gradually heading towards depression. It is more difficult for an introverted person to understand the symptoms, which is crucial. Like all the other ailments, depression also needs to be treated. I am thankful to my family and friends for the help I got from them.” 
 
 A common ailment 
 While doctors suggest that the likelihood of suffering from depression is higher among the celebrities, the cases of mental fatigue and depression in on the rise among common people as well. “Depression is just another illness. We need to understand that. People around the patient should also be proactive to treat the person suffering from depression. There is a massive advancement in treatment. If you see you family member or friend suffering from depression, take medical help immediately,” says Chandrima Roy, animal welfare worker.
 
 
 CELEBS SPEAK
 
  
  
 ‘I read that by 2020, depression will be one of the biggest ailments for our civilisation. I believe it is largely because of our lifestyle. Moner osukh toh shorireo 
 probhab fele. The social taboo of equating depression to mental disorder has to be addressed’ 
 — Kaushik Sen
 
  
  
 ‘I have always been an introvert and my parents used to call me ragi bachcha. It took me a while to realise that I am gradually heading towards depression. It is more difficult for an introverted person to understand the symptoms, which is crucial’ 
 — Priyanka Sarkar
 
  
  
 ‘With the constant change in our lifestyle, the influence of the virtual world and social media are largely responsible for depression. But why just blame that? We have to be aware. We need to find ‘me time’. I’ve been through depression during my separation and I took the help of experts’
 — Sreelekha Mitra
 
 
 Ten simple ways to cope with stress and depression
 
  
  
 
 
 (As suggested by Dr Supratim Akaash Paul)
 
 
