LUDHIANA: Coming out against fuel price hike, farmer organizations spilled milk on roads and handed over vegetables to poor people in   area on Friday.

 The organisations allegedly stopped farmers to sell milk and vegetables in a show of anger against the Union government.
 
 On Friday morning, members of farmer organisations reached the vegetable market in Machiwara where vegetable traders had put up their produce for sale. Sources said the farmer organizations members then threw the vegetables before cattle and took the rest to a local gurdwara and gave the same for langar.
 
 The organizations also requested the farmers and farm traders to make the agitation successful and not to defy their call.
 
 Police officials said bodies then stopped dairy farmers and spilled the milk on road. They added that the members of these organizations then went to diary shops and sprinkled milk on the owners and workers, asking them to close the shops.
 
 The farmer organizations then appealed to the dairy owners not to sell milk at their shops till June 10.
 
 As the members of farm organizations were roaming around in town, a team of police officers led by deputy superintendent of police ( ) Harsimrat Singh and SHO Machiwara police station Surinderpal Singh reached the spot and pacified the agitating farmers to carry out their protest in peaceful manner and not to forcefully act against anyone.
 
 Meanwhile, police officials said farmer organizations also lodged protests in Samrala and Khanna. They added that in Khanna, the protesters stopped vegetable traders outside the market.
 
 A leader of farmer organization termed the protest successful.
 
 President of BKU Rajewal, Balbir Singh Rajewal, said except for one or two places where protesters tried to act forcibly, the protest was successful and received great response. He said they have asked the farmers to carry out protest in a peaceful manner from Saturday.
 
 Rajewal said they had requested the farmers with folded hands not to sell vegetables and milk for other cities. He however said farmers can sell the same in their villages or those coming to buy the same even from other areas.
 
 Rajewal said 172 farmer organizations including BKU Rajewal, BKU Lakhowal, BKU (Sidhupur), BKU (Kadian), Border   in   were part of the protest. He said even as they had been demanding minimum income guarantee scheme, implementation of Swaminathan Commission report and waiver of farmers' debt, the   government had failed to help the farming community.
 
 Meanwhile, as messages about farmers stopping supply of vegetables, fruits and milk are doing rounds on social networking sites, prices of the same may increase in the next few days due to panic.
 
 Davinder Singh, who runs a dairy on Pakhowal road, said even as they got their stock on Friday, messages might spread panic, which might result in price hike.
 
 
