CHANDIGARH: The move of the   administration to   25 trees termed dangerous and unsafe has not gone down well with city residents. They feel the government has not done much to save the trees, due to which many of them have to be cut. 

 In a recent letter to the UT adviser  , a city-based horticulturist said a number of trees and plants in the city are dying as the department is not treating or watering them. 
 
 He has attached a list of trees being cut by the department these days and has suggested that the administration form a society of people interested in safeguarding the greenery of Chandigarh.
 
 Citing an example,   said, “New plants are dying without water on Vigyan Path (road between sectors 8 and 4 and sectors 9 and 5). I have written about it many times. The SDO concerned also wrote to the executive engineer in this regard. It is very important to water plants to make them grow and if there is no water, they should not have been planted in the first place.”
 
 Talking about trees being cut, he said, “For the last 20 years, they hardly treated the trees. After 10 years, more trees will become dangerous as they are not being cared for even now.”
 
 The list of 25 trees termed dead, dry and dangerous are located in sectors 15, 27, 33, 37, Maloya and Dhanas. These include Dek, Banyan, Rubber, Mulberry, Peepal, Aistonia, Palm, Silver Oak, Neem, Loqat and Chakrasia.
 
 TOI visited a few locations and found that trees were being cut in a few places and in others, they had already been felled. 
 
 According to the list, some of the trees are green but dangerous. In some cases, the trees are said to be close to boundary walls and there are chances of them falling in the rain.
 
 “First, they don’t treat trees. After a few years, the trees become dangerous and then they cut them. If we look at the records, in the last 20 years, there was hardly any tree loss even in case of storms. These trees are dying due to negligence, particularly by the horticulture department,”   said. 
 
 He also said the administration is making slip roads and cycle tracks, which is harmful to the trees. “These days, they are making cycle tracks and slip roads. In the process, roots of the trees are being exposed. They will dry out and fall but the department is not focusing on this part at the moment,” he said.
 
 The letter written to the adviser says, “we have a group of people who are really worried about the greenery of Chandigarh and would like to have a seminar on maintaining greenery in Chandigarh in which we would like officers of the horticulture department/forest and roads so that we can discuss methods to save trees.”
 
 
