CHANDIGARH: The   on Friday stayed the investigation against Punjab DGP (human resource development) Sidhharth Chattopadhyaya in the Inderpreet Singh   after he accused two DGPs of using it as tool to put pressure on him in a drug haul case. 

 Former vice-president of Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD), Chadha had committed suicide by shooting himself on January 3. He took the extreme step after a video allegedly showing his father Charanjit Singh Chadha in objectionable position with a woman principal was shared on social media. 
 
 Chattopadhyaya had moved an application in the court on Thursday that he was being targeted by senior police officers “whose role was under investigation for being closely associated with Raj Jit Singh”. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Raj Jit Singh’s role in drug cases is being investigated on the high court directions. 
 
 Chattopadhyaya has sought probe from CBI or a retired high court judge in the   case.
 
 He claimed before the high court that in the course of investigation in Moga SSP’s case, role of two DGPs had come to light. Along with the details of one of the DGPs having benami house in Chandigarh, Chattopadhyaya has also submitted the house picture in a sealed cover to the court.
 
 The division bench comprising Justices Surya Kant and Shekher Dhawan ordered the stay after this and added, “However, the investigation may continue against other suspects (In Chadha suicide case) in accordance with law. The record of investigation be produced on the next date of hearing.”
 
 Arguing strongly before the court, senior advocate Anupam Gupta also submitted that entire investigation of the Inderpreet Chadha suicide case was being manipulated by one of the two DGPs named by Chattopadhyaya. 
 
 Seeking CBI probe in the case, Gupta argued, “It is malicious investigation. The sole purpose of the entire investigation appears to fix Sidhharth Chattopadhya so that he may not follow further investigation against SSP Moga Raj Jit Singh.” 
 
 Commenting about the SIT head in Chadha suicide case, IG (crime) L K Yadav, the senior advocate said, “he is out of his mind…every accused in suicide case is being tortured to name Chattopadhyay.” 
 
 In his application, Chattopadhyaya has submitted to the court that in Chadha suicide case, “It is quite surprising that despite the fact that though the name of undersigned (Chattopadhyaya) was not mentioned in the suicide notes written immediately before the death of Inderpreet Singh Chadha and nor is it in the original FIR, yet the undersigned is being constantly harassed by IG Yadav in the name of investigation in the said FIR No. 1 dated January 3, 2018.”
 
 The court has now posted the case for next hearing on April 23 and the Punjab advocate general has been asked to take appropriate instructions in the matter, sources said here today.
 
 
