While the expansion of Chennai district to include parts of   and   is said to help ease administration within the   limits, residents feel it is a good move as the physical distance between the problems and thecorresponding district authorities will be now be reduced.

 “There will be a lesser burden on the Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur district collectors as these areas will come under the jurisdiction of the Chennai collector. ButI think, except for the revenue records, not much will change at the administrative level. In case, people have issues the Chennai collectorate will be closer for the public living in the expanded areas,” said  , a resident of OMR.
 
 Residents of Manapakkam, which until now, was under Kancheepuram are relieved that problems related to land acquisition for government projects can be resolved with the authorities, whose offices are closer. “Now, for patta issues, we can voice our concerns at the Chennai collectorate, which is closer than the other district collectorates. During the airport expansion there were issues with land acquisition, to voice our concerns, we had to rush to Kancheepuram collectorate every time. Such problems will be reduced,” said V Nagarajan.
 
 A zonal officer with the corporation said the move will help reduce the burden at their level too, especially with land and election-relatedwork. “Instead of working with the Tiruvallur collectorate, for us, it will be easier to deal with the Chennai collectorate,” said an officer.
 
 With top bureaucrats at the helm in the corporation, and with separate departments like Metrowater, Tangedco and  , the people from the newly inducted areas feel the civic amenities will be better managed as the system is decentralised system and the collector is not held responsible for everything, unlike other districts.
 
 There will be more coordination among departments as the jurisdiction of officials in Chennai district will increase. Along with administrative benefits, the move will ease disaster management, land revenue, law and order, and social security issues as well, said the zonal officer.
 
