MUMBAI: Two   who were   from a brothel in Islampur, Sangli, were taken from the custody of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) within two weeks on the basis of fake documents and forced back into  , said Abraham Mathai, founder-chairman of   Harmony Foundation. Brothel owners from   submitted forged documents, including Aadhar cards, and misled the   into believing that the rescued girls were adults and got them released, said Mathai. 

 Meanwhile, a woman police constable of the anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU), Sangli city, has come under the scanner too, for allegedly alerting brothel owners of an imminent police raid to rescue a minor.
 
 Mathai and a team from his NGO had accompanied cops during a raid of a brothel in Islampur in Sangli in February and rescued two minors. Police had also arrested two pimps and invoked sections of Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act against them. 
 
 “When we rescued the girls, we submitted their school certificates that showed they were 14 years old and yet the girls were allowed to leave. We have complained to the director general of police and the women and child department under which CWC falls for action against the culprits,” said Mathai.
 
 Mathai’s colleague Shyam said that after weeks of hard work, they got tip-off that the girls had been forced into prostitution in rural  . 
 
 “We contacted deputy commissioner of police (city) Poornima Chaugule, who raided a den and rescued three girls. One of the girls told us that her another minor was being forced into the sex trade some 80km from Solapur,” added Mathai. Chaugule got two pimps arrested. 
 
 “While the police were on their way, a police constable from AHTU alerted them,” said Mathai. 
 
 DCP Chaugule confirmed the incident and said, “We have initiated a departmental inquiry against the woman constable and will take appropriate action.” 
 
 Mathai has demanded that the inquiry be handed over to the state CID or the NGO would file a writ petition before the Bombay high court.
 
 
