BIJNOR: Hectic preparations are on for the upcoming byelections in  's   assembly constituency. Local administration has identified 49 “vulnerable” booths and 90 “critical booths” based on previous incidents of violence and law and order situation during poll time. Web-casting will also be done at 48 booths where low voter turnout was recorded in the past. The bypolls are slated for May 28.

 There are around 351 booths in Noorpur constituency area. Administration is on the toes to ensure conduct of peaceful and fair polls.
  
  Eight candidates, including those from BJP and Samajwadi Party, are in the fray. Around 3.06 lakh voters will decide their fate. The voter slip is being provided to all voters so that they do not face any problems at the time of voting.
  
  Webcasting will be done at 48 booths where the turnout was low in the last polls so that it can be assessed why voters do not come to the booths for casting their vote. The webcasting can be seen online.
  
  Talking with TOI, additional district magistrate (finance)   said, “Police will keep a close watch on vulnerable and critical booths so that no anti-social element disturbs polling.”
  
  Meanwhile, political parties are firing on all cylinders to win the seat. Leaders of several parties will be in Noorpur constituency over the next few days to campaign for their respective candidates.
  
  On Sunday, RLD vice-president   will be addressing a rally in favour of SP candidate at Noorpur. Apart from this, national president of SP  , may also come here to seek support for party candidate. Several leaders from SP, Peace Party and Mahaan Dal are already camping in Noorpur.
  
  Congress is not contesting but is supporting SP’s Naemul Hasan. State general secretary of Congress Manoj Bhardwaj said, “We have decided to support SP candidate in the bypolls. Our party leaders are canvassing for SP.”
  
  On its part, BJP is not leaving anything to chance and is canvassing door to door. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prashad Maurya will come to Noorpur on Monday and address a gathering. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath is also expected. However, his programme has not been announced so far. Apart from this, 25 party MLAs and several MLCs are camping in the area for the past several days. BJP is working at the booth level to increase turnout to avoid another Phoolpur or Gorakhpur-like situation, where polling was low and it cost the party the seats.
