MOHALI: It will the batting might of Kings XI Punjab (KXIP) against the bowling prowess of Sunrisers Hyderabad when the two teams face off at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium, here on Thursday. This will KXIP’s last home match in Mohali.

 
 
 
 KXIP batsmen have shown good form with KL Rahul,   and Karun Nair leading the way. Rahul has hit 135 runs in the tournament in three innings at a strike-rate of 198.52. The Karnataka opener also hit the fastest-ever   fifty this season against Delhi Daredevils.
 
 
 
 Gayle sent a warning to the bowlers with a 33-ball 63 against Chennai Super Kings in his first game of this year’s IPL while Nair has also chipped in with useful knocks in all three games that Kings have played. Add the powerful Aaron Finch and   to the batting line-up, the Kings XI have got the arsenal to gun down any team just with their batting. Only Yuvraj Singh hasn’t hit his straps yet.
 
 “With Gayle in form, the Kings XI batting line-up is very strong. They have the power that is essential to win T20 games. But our bowling is also in top gear and we have the resources to stop Kings XI batsmen,” Sunrisers coach Tom Moody said, a day prior to the match between the two.
 
 The worrying factor for Kings XI is their fast bowlers, who have leaked runs in all three games. Andrew Tye, Mohit Sharma and Barinder Sran have all disappointed. On the bench are Ben Dwarshuis and Ankit Rajpoot, and the pair might be given a chance on Thursday.
 
 
 
 
 SRH have by far looked the best team in the tournament. Their bowling unit comprises Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Rashid Khan, Shakib al Hasan, Siddarth Kaul and Billy Stanlake. All are potential match-winners with the ball on their day. Rashid has been a major success for the team in the last season as well as in the few games this year. 
 
 “He (Rashid) is a pretty unique cricketer and he has had a lot of success with us last year,” Moody said. “He has gone from strength to strength in the various tournaments that he has played around the world and also when he is representing his country. He is an important piece in our puzzle given that there is an element of mystery around him and he has that real talent as a wicket-taker.”
 
