NEW DELHI: Peeved at their confrontational stance towards the BJP brass and the government at the Centre, RSS is planning to remove VHP international working president   and Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh general secretary  . 

 VHP international president  , too, is on the Sangh's 'sack' list. Sources said senior RSS functionaries were unhappy at the way the three had being following their own agenda, embarrassing the government. They also believe the huge cadre base of the two organisations has not been utilised for the propagation of the Sangh ideology. 
 
 Insiders said VHP's executive meeting will be convened by the end of February, where RSS will push for the election of a new president, replacing Reddy and his supporters, including Togadia. A meeting of the 'pratinidhi sabha' - the Parivar's top decision-making body - is slated for March and a new VHP chief could be elected before that. 
 
 Sources said the RSS brass had made up its mind to ease out those who had opened a front against the BJP government, including PM Modi. The Sangh is keen that its front organisations avoid confrontation with the government, and sort out differences amicably. The larger view is that structural changes in the organisations had become unavoidable to prevent any confusion among cadres before the 2019 general elections.
 
 The recent episode involving Togadia, wherein he alleged a plot to kill him in a police encounter, has only fuelled the fire. Togadia and Upadhyay have often embarrassed the Centre and the BJP leadership by speaking against the Modi government on crucial issues. The role of some office-bearers is also under the scanner for covertly extending support to the Patidar quota agitation. 
 
  RSS had tried to ring in changes in the VHP brass at its last executive committee meeting, in December, where senior Sangh functionaries suggested that former Himachal Pradesh governor V S Kokje replace Reddy. 
 
 However, Reddy and Togadia supporters prevailed, and Reddy was allowed to continue until a full-time international president was elected. Reddy was elected to the post in 2011 and 2014 and nominated supporters to key positions, like Togadia. The VHP chief's tenure is for three years. 
 
  Although supporters of Togadia and Reddy dominate VHP, most of its cadres have their roots in RSS. Sources said RSS has been trying to convince VHP cadres about the need for changes at the top. It is learnt that Togadia, Reddy and Upadhyay will be asked to quit, and voted out if they don't. 
 
 
 
 
