MUMBAI:   officials have said that they have almost “no space left” to park seized illegal autos and taxis and those plying with rigged meters. The development does not augur well for the city’s commuters. 

 In such a scenario, the errant drivers could have a free run as they will be served show-cause notices and may not even report to RTOs for fitness tests. Unfit vehicles could continue plying and not be scrapped. 
 
 A senior official, who requested anonymity, told TOI: “The situation is alarming. We can detain one or two vehicles in our compound. But if there is a drive, we cannot confiscate many illegal autos or cabs without valid permits as there is no space to keep the vehicles.”
 
 Recently, the Mumbai police too had asked RTO not to park seized vehicles on the premises of police stations, he said. “We have no space on RTO premises where scores of vehicles including buses, trucks come for regular tests, inspections and we conduct driving tests for citizens. Where is the space to keep any confiscated vehicles or illegal autorickshaws?” he asked.
 
 Rogue drivers are a menace on city roads, specially after midnight when maximum illegal autos operate as fewer police personnel and RTO staffers are present. It also poses a threat to the safety of women commuters travelling alone. 
 
 Rogue drivers operate around long-distance train termini such as LTT, Bandra Terminus and Borivli, MSRTC stands, and the domestic and international airports, sources in the auto union said.
 
 A deputy RTO said, “Unless you detain and scrap an illegal auto, there is no other way to remove it off roads.” He said that those driving autos illegally or without valid permits do not come to the RTO for mandatory fitness tests or road tests of meters. “If you issue the errant driver a show-cause notice, he will simply drive away and then throw the notice in the bin. We will not be able to locate him unless there is another RTO drive or a complaint from commuter,” he said.
 
 RTO officials have requested their seniors to help them resolve the crisis and make space availability for vehicles. “We should be given open plots belonging to other government departments for keeping the seized vehicles,” an RTO staffer said.
 
 The four RTOs in Mumbai are also searching for open space to set up 250-m brake testing tracks for commercial vehicles in accordance with the Bombay high court’s directives. The deadline is April 30, which is just a month away.
 
  “We plan to set up the first brake test in  , where a sizeable area has been earmarked,” said a senior transport official. In the western suburbs, an open plot in   is being considered for the brake tests.
 
 
