NAGPUR: Theatre group Stagecraft picked up five vintage stories for its 72nd production,  , which was presented at Tamarind Hall of Chitnavis Centre on Saturday.

 These ‘Eternal stories from times bygone’ were penned by Dewan Sharar, a well-known writer, theatre person and filmmaker of the 1930s. Sharar is also the maternal grandfather of Vikash Khurna, who directed and narrated the plays.
 
 Dipping into the rich repertoire of Sharar who wrote on historical and social themes,   picked up stories that spoke of issues like caste and religion, about love between rich and poor, family commitment that had its iron grip over pining hearts, adultery and power politics.
 
 The presentation began with the story of   and spoke of the changing social milieu. It dealt with progress which brings change and insecurities among those who are affected by it. ‘In the name of Allah’ was about love and faith, while ‘Shadows of a Temple’ told the story of love a married man has for a dancing girl and how he seeks her after the death of his wife. ‘The Beautiful Blue’ dealt with loyalty, cunning and commitment.
 
 But it was the ‘Gong of Shiva’ which kept the audience engaged for long. “This is an entire novel of which I have taken parts to put together the story on stage,” Khurana said. It is the saga of two young couples who are victims of caste and status equations. How they get apart due to family pressures and how circumstances unites one of them forms a riveting plot.
 
 Artist Shagufta Mehdi’s huge art work lit up the set and brought in the feel of Multan, a city where the stories are set. The young cast including Rajat Rajani, Sabrina Khan, Onkar Ghare, Aditya Bansod, Arya Diwakar, Prajakta Raut and the matured performances by   and   brought the characters and the stories alive. The background music designed by Anurag Kulkarni and   created the right mood.
 
 Though the stories were set in India of 1930s, the language of the play was English. Khurana narrated the stories while the cast enacted the parts.
 
 “I did not use Hindi as the stories have been written in very rich English and I did not want their essence to be lost in translation,” Khurana said.
 
 Two shows of the play will be held at the same venue on Sunday also at 3pm and 7pm.
 
 
