KOLKATA: When nine-year-old   Gupta (name changed) leapt from the terrace of a five-storey building last September, little did he know that he would end up cheating death.

 Found lying in a pool of blood with severe head injury and multiple limb fractures, Yash was on ventilation for 11 days, hanging on to life by a thread. The doctors weren’t sure he could pull through. But they kept trying and Yash responded. After two months in intensive care, the boy’s treatment is continuing at his Howrah home.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 With Yash able to speak again, the police team investigating the circumstances that led to the suicide bid have now approached his parents to record his statement.
 
 Yash’s parents alleged that the Class V student was provoked into taking the drastic step after being physically assaulted and mentally tortured in his Howrah school. An FIR was filed at   police station against two teachers.
 
 On September 15, Yash had run home from school — a 500m stretch — headed to the apartment terrace, around 50 feet above ground, and jumped. His parents took the severely injured boy to CMRI Hospital. Though chances of survival were bleak, doctors did not give up hope. A trauma team comprising neurosurgeon  , cardiac surgeon S Sarangi, paediatrician S Acharya and orthopedic T N   worked tirelessly on the patient.
 
 “The boy had severe injuries in the head, chest, hip, multiple limb fractures and was comatose. The way he recovered is nothing short of a miracle considering the kind of wounds he sustained,” said Dr Chatterjee.
 
 Once his condition stabilised , doctors took care of his head injury on a priority basis. He was then put on medication for other wounds and the chest infection. The surgical team later operated on the multiple injuries in his limbs and hip. Yash was discharged after two months in hospital and is currently undergoing physiotherapy at home.
 
 “It is by the grace of God and the medical team’s dedication that my son is back home. But the accused teachers are roaming free,” said his mother.
 
 The boy’s father, who works at a milk outlet run by his brothers, had to borrow heavily to pay for Yash’s treatment. “The hospital helped us a lot considering our financial condition. We want the police to take action against the two teachers who had forced my nephew to take such a step, Otherwise, they may drive some other students to such extremities,” said the boy’s uncle who funded alarge part of the treatment.
 
 Yash is now being taught at home by a private tutor along with his sister, a Class IX student of the same school. The girl has stopped attending classes fearing reprisal from school authorities.
 
 “I do not teach Yash’s class and don’t know why he took my name,” said Hansraj Singh, one of the accused teachers.
 
 Howrah Police commissioner D P Singh has promised a thorough probe into the case.
 
