AMRITSAR: Following cabinet minister   Singh Sidhu’s acquittal in a road rage case by the Supreme Court on Tuesday, his wife   blamed the   for keeping the case alive despite his acquittal by the trial court. Claiming justice has been done, his daughter Rabia Sidhu said, “My father is an honest and innocent man. He could never hurt anybody as he is very kind hearted and humble.”

 Celebrations began at Sidhu’s residence in Amritsar as the news of his acquittal flashed in the media. Talking to media persons, Navjot said, “Let me tell you frankly, which I had not said earlier since the case was sub judice, Sidhu was acquitted earlier by the lower court. At least 500 people had seen the incident (of road rage) and my husband Sidhu had not touched that man. But due to politics and being a celebrity, he was implicated again. (SAD president) Sukhbir Singh Badal kept the case alive as he wanted to kill Sidhu politically.”
 
 She claimed that Sukhbir’s political graph had gone down in Punjab since he used his full energy in destroying Sidhu’s political career. Asked about the role of other   leaders, she said there were lot of politicians who were involved in wrong doings and had plundered Punjab’s wealth. She said the victory was not of the family alone but of team Sidhu. “There are good policemen, politicians and judges too,” she said.
 
 About Rs 1,000 fine imposed on Sidhu, she replied “That could be due to some paper work, I don’t know much about that.”
 
 “I am so happy, the first thing I did was go to gurdwara and then to temple, because papa is Shiv bhakt. I am proud of the judiciary which gave my dad the verdict he deserved,” Rabia told media. Claiming that she was never scared about the outcome of the case as she believed that her father did no wrong, she said, “Whatever he has done is for Punjab and I am proud today to be called his daughter.” 
 
 When asked whether some politicians wanted to see Sidhu behind bars for their own interests in Punjab politics, she replied, “I actually feel pity for them, I would like to tell them, for once, to introspect and think about the poor people instead of caring about money.”
 
 
