Nagpur: Thirty theatre lovers are getting a taste of how drama is taught at National School of Drama, New Delhi at the ongoing thirty-day workshop. Sponsored by NSD, the workshop began on January 3 at Dhanwatey National College and is being conducted by its former students. The free of cost workshop will conclude on February 3. Taking the students through the motions of understanding acting, the workshop is an attempt by the prestigious institution to provide opportunity to aspirants in smaller cities. “A large number of students apply for admission at NSD every year. Most fail to get in due to lack of preparation,” says NSD pass out Yashwant Nikose, organizer of the workshop. “The three-year drama course at NSD has 15 subjects under the syllabus. We have condensed this into thirty days and are giving the participants an understanding of how drama is taught and learnt,” he adds. Being conducted from 2pm to 5.30pm, the workshop attempts to develop personality and give a glimpse of latest developments in theatre. “Subjects like new trends and techniques in theatre, realistic acting, modern techniques of acting and direction, social barriers on stage, street plays, history of modern theatre and its techniques will be taught over the next one month” Nikose says. “This being a production oriented workshop, we will be producing two plays one each in Hindi and Marathi during this workshop with the help of students. They will also learn different subjects through the production,” Nikose informs. A new addition is making students learn the techniques of videography and how to conduct a television interview. “Government spends Rs 1 crore in the span of three years on each student at NSD. We are trying to provide the basics of what is taught there. The students will be given a certificate which will help them while seeking admission at NSD” he says. Local theatre artists and established theatre persons are also being roped in to train the students informs Marathi theatre person Prabhakar Dopare who will train students in drama. “We have invited Shrikant Borkar to take a session. NSD graduate Ashok Lokhande will also be training students at this workshop,” Dopare informs. Describing the workshop as an enriching experience retired central government employee V P Pandey said, “The practice and rehearsal are very engaging and inspiring and I am also enjoying spending time with so many young persons.” For Nirmiti Jiwantare a first-year student of drama at a local college, “This is a platform for students where they can build their confidence and get over stage fright. I am also enjoying learning the techniques of theatre and expressions through drama games,” she says. “As I am aspiring to study at NSD this workshop is helping me prepare for it,” says Nehal Bhaisare who is part of the local theatre group Bahujan Rangbhoomi.