NAGPUR: Industrialists and traders making money by utilizing natural resources like plants, food supplements and agricultural produce should   at least 3 to 5% of their profits to   so that they are not exploited and can help them conserve rich  , said Lavanya Sagar, member of Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit ( ), at Van Sabahgruh, on Tuesday.

 
 
 
 Addressing a programme titled ‘Training for trainers’ as part of access benefit sharing (ABS), an Indo-German project, organized by the union ministry of environment and forest in partnership with GIZ, Sagar said, the Biological Diversity Act and section 49 of Village Panchyat Act stipulate that three-tier implementation of this project should be put in place. For this, the gram panchayats should establish biodiversity management committees so that the benefits are passed on to cultivators.
 
 The committees will have to maintain people’s biodiversity register to ensure availability of resources and comprehensive information about them in consultation with the local people. Development of an IT-enabled ABS monitoring system is vital to ensure fair and effective benefit-sharing to stakeholders, she said.
 
 Indian companies conduct research for welfare of such people. However, multi-national companies (MNCs) pump in funds and use human resources for which they should take prior consent of the authorities concerned, she said. This is necessary because there are incidents of MNCs doing research and then secretly seeking patent for the produce and earn millions of rupees, she added. 
 
 Benefits to be given to stakeholders could be monetary or non-monetary such as royalties or transfer of information if the research is being utilized for academia or non-commercial purpose. In case of a certain variety of resources with difference in value potential results, Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board is authorized to decide on the reward with due consideration for local area development.
 
 ABS project attempts to create awareness and establish communication and stakeholder dialogue for better understanding of Biological Diversity Act, promoting good practices of benefit sharing with communities based on utilization of biological resources for commercial and research purposes. 
 
 The workshop discussed the Act and the guidelines on access to resources and associated knowledge and benefit-sharing regulations of 2014 for effective implementation of ABS provisions.
 
 Project leader Aeshita Mukherjee Wilkse and member-secretary of Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board A Ashraf were present.
 
 
