Margao: Revenue minister Rohan Khaunte’s statement about the government mulling over a proposal to amend the Code of   has been taken by stakeholders of agrarian bodies with a pinch of salt, even as they called into question the government’s propriety in regularising illegal structures on comunidade lands. 

 Margao comunidade attorney Celistino Noronha, speaking to TOI, demanded that the government take into confidence all stakeholders of the comunidades — mainly shareholders and gaonkars — before any amendments are affected. Pointing out to the recommendations of the Comunidade Commission set up by the government in 2013, Noronha said that any amendment should be in accordance with those recommendations. “Otherwise, the proposals should be subjected to public scrutiny. Keep it open for the perusal of comunidade stakeholders,” Noronha said. 
 
 As regards the government’s plans to regularise illegal encroachments on comunidade properties, Noronha said that the commission has also laid down extensive procedures for the purpose. 
 
 President South Goa Forum of Comunidades Franky Monteiro said that while amendments were essential to strengthen the comunidades, “there ought to be accountability on the part of the administrators of comunidades”.
 
 “ No illegal structures can come up on comunidade land without the patronage of politicians,” he said, strongly objecting to any move to regularise illegal structures on comunidade land.
 
 Voicing his apprehensions over the government’s proposed move to amend the Code of Comunidade, Noronha said, “We fear that all these amendments are only arm twisting tactics to make comunidades yield to politicians’ demands, with a view to facilitate public or private projects on these prime lands.”
 
 Former MLA Sadanand Malik, who has done an extensive study on issues concerning comunidades, said that the government has no jurisdiction to regularise illegal structures on comunidade land. “Encroachments began occurring on comunidade lands only after government began interfering in its administration following the first amendment it made to the Code of Comunidade in 1984.”
 
 
