KOCHI: Cables laid by Kerala State Electricity Board, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd and private telecom service providers, which obstruct the flow of water through drains, are the major cause for waterlogging in several parts of the city. Renovation and cleaning of drains have been affected because of the unauthorized activity. Shifting them has become impossible in the absence of dedicated utility ducts.

 In Deshabhimani Junction, the drain along the Banerji Road ends abruptly because of presence of cables. Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL), which is responsible for renovation of drains from Mathrubhumi to Edappally Junction, were unable to start the work on the mouth of the   because of this. “We have contacted agencies like   to discuss shifting of cables. We hope to find a solution soon,” said a KMRL official.
 
 According to the officials with the KSEB, they had laid the cables when there were no drains in the area. “When Metro authorities started construction of drains in the area, our cables got damaged several times. We had a meeting with Metro authorities and requested a slight deviation in the alignment of drain. Or else, there should be dedicated ducts for utilities,” a KSEB official said.
 
 In front of  's Church, Palarivattom, a bunch of telecom cables is obstructing the work on the drainage. “It is not an isolated case. The drains on most of the byroads are clogged with telecom cables, mostly laid by private telecom providers. This makes cleaning of drains a difficult job,” said P M Harris, chairman, works standing committee, Kochi corporation. “In some locations, we had removed the cables. The civic body also filed police complaints against the owners of such cables. But they haven’t acted on it so far,”   said.
 
 On MG Road, near  , there are several unauthorized wayside eateries that dump their waste into the drain. “A person who secured licence from Kochi corporation for collecting parking fees in the area illegally rented out the space to wayside eateries. Though I submitted complaint to the corporation in this regard, the local body officials are delaying action against the offender,” said  , councillor from Ernakulam Central division.
 
 In many stretches along Metro corridor, the contractors dump construction waste in to the drains, clogging them. Another issue is the absence of adequate pits for the storm water on roads to flow in to the drains. “We have already put some holes on the sidewalls of the drains so that storm water would flow in. But, most them have been clogged with plastic and other waste dumped on the road. Storm water will carry such garbage and it will get trapped in the pits obstructing the flow of water to the drains,” a KMRL official said.
 
 On the report that there are no sufficient pits to drain storm water into drains, he said this can be checked only during rainy season. During summer rains, we identified one of such location adjacent to a bar near   and rectified it by drilling a hole,” the official said.
 
