NEW DELHI: 12 Maldivian lawmakers, who were reinstated by the country's Supreme Court, on Sunday entered Parliament despite military deployment to block their entry into the building, reported ANI.

 
 These MPs had been ousted for switching allegiance to the opposition. But with their return, President  's   will lose its majority in the 85-member Parliament, reported AP. This can result in the legislative body functioning as a rival power to the president.
 
 Later in the day, Ahmed Mahloof, the spokesperson of the joint opposition of Maldives, alleged that he may be "arrested any time," reported ANI.
 
 He recalled that out of the exiled MPs who returned to the country today, two were arrested at the airport.
 
 When the lawmakers went to attend the parliamentary board meeting, they were "blocked by forces."
 
 "Today we went to parliamentary board meeting and were blocked by forces. Some of us climbed over gates to get in and helped others. This isn't a first. Since the battle of Parliament in July last year, we always get pepper sprayed and dragged out," Mahloof said.
 
 "In today's parliamentary board meeting, we submitted the second no-confidence motion against attorney general, prosecutor general, home minister and defence minister for violating and refusing to implement the Supreme Court's ruling," he added.
 
 Mahloof claimed that even the opposition leaders were living in fear, as "the AG, Defence and police have clearly said that they won't follow the SC order."
 
 The secretary general and deputy secretary general of the Maldivian Parliament resigned today, he informed, and new arrest warrants had begun to be issued.
 
 Meanwhile, the country's attorney general warned the court against attempting to impeach the president, saying that he can be ousted only through a vote in Parliament.
 
 Maldives has been in the grip of a political crisis ever since its Supreme Court overturned the convictions of political prisoners, including that of its exiled former president   earlier this week.
 
 In its order, the court said that the prisoners' 'guilty' verdicts had been "influenced" by the government.
 
 The ruling led to several clashes between opponents of the country's government and its police in the capital Male.
 
 Yameen has shown no inclination to implement the order as yet.
 
 According to a TOI report, he is said to have told a gathering of supporters: "This will be sorted out soon... I'll deal with the SC."
 
 The order may allow Nasheed, Maldives' first democratically elected president, to challenge Yameen when he seeks re-election later this year.
 
 He had been sentenced to 13 years in prison on terrorism charges but later received asylum in Britain.
 
 
 
 
