KOLKATA: Around a week ago, a couple was assaulted on the Metro station premises at Dum Dum. A couple of days later, a woman protestor was abused at the same station. And the back-toback incidents have highlighted the challenges victims face to lodge a complaint.

 The Metro stations fall within the jurisdictional ambit of the local police stations, but the   (MRP) — modelled on the state’s   (GRP) — reports to the south zone divisional commissioner of police in Kolkata. Now, with the Metro set to expand its area of opeartion beyond Kolkata Police’s jurisdiction, problems are only set to multiply, fear experts.
 
 
  
 
 Delhi is a case in point. There, a dedicated Metro Railway Police has been set up with its own dedicated police station and staff. The national capital right now has 185 metro stations along its 252-km corridor, while Kolkata has 23 stations for the 27.22-km stretch. Initially, Delhi Police followed the   model — the local police stations covered the respective Metro stations. Later, six Metro police stations were set up under a DCP. Twenty-three Metro stations set up e-kiosks where passengers could lodge FIRs. In 2017 alone, 12,925 FIRs were lodged, of which, 80% were e- FIRs.
 
 Several years ago, according to sources, a proposal was submitted to the government to bring the Metro Railway Police under the ambit of the GRP. It was also proposed to make the Metro Railway the fifth railway district, after Howrah, Sealdah, Kharagpur and Siliguri. That would have ensured a supervision of the level of an SP and dedicated manpower. However,the state is yet to firm up its decision on it.
 
 The implications are not hard to gauge. In Monday’s incident in Kolkata, had the victims chosen to lodge a FIR, they would had to travel to Sinthee PS. On Thursday, when a molestation victim chose to protest and went all the way to Sinthee PS, she reportedly was kept waiting for two hours before the case got lodged.
 
 Dum Dum falls under Barrackpore police commissionarate, but metro remains a Kolkata Police subject. Interestingly, in Kolkata, DC South holds the additional charge of incidents in Metro, but the divisional DCPs supervise the probe as soon as the cases get registered at the local police stations.
 
 “All these issues will become more acute as Kolkata Metro expands. This city has led others when a dedicated cyber police station was set up. There is no reason why you cannot set up dedicated police stations for Kolkata Metro, the oldest in India. All it needs is some political will,” said a serving IPS officer.
 
