MANALI: Known as India's fastest man on ice, luger   will be one of the two Indian representatives at the 2018 Winter Olympics in  , South Korea. Keshavan, who stays in Manali, received timely financial help from the sports ministry after struggling to gather funds. 

 He resorted to crowdfunding in order to fund his participation in the qualification tournaments for the Olympics. He had to do this after missing some of the qualification tournaments due to lack of funds.   reached   on Sunday.
 
 "I have worked really hard for the Olympics. I will try my best to win India's first medal in the winter games," Keshavan told TOI from Pyeonchang. "I am so excited to participate under our national flag this time."
 
 This will be Keshavan's sixth Olympics. In the 2014 Sochi Olympics, Keshavan walked as an Independent Olympic Participant at the opening ceremony due to the suspension of the   (IOA). However, later on, during the games,   made a comeback as a recognized country by the   resulting in Keshavan competing under the Indian flag.
 
 
 
 Last year, he defended his Asian championship title in Altenberg, Germany. The three-time Asian champion has recorded speeds up to 134.3 kmph, which incidentally is also the Asian record.
 
 “I am very happy that our government is now recognizing winter sports,” stated Keshavan. “I have seen times wherein I had no money to pay fees to my coach. Our country has no luge track and I had to go to various resorts in different countries for my practice.”
 
 Before leaving for Pyeongchang, Keshavan trained in Innsbruck, Austria and Altenberg, Germany for a few months. His races in the Olympics are on February 10 and 11. The opening ceremony of the Games will be held on February 9. Cross country skier Jagdish Singh will be India’s second representative at the winter games. Keshavan had started a crowdfunding campaign to sustain his career in 2016. The 36-year-old had sought monetary contributions, amounting to just over Rs 1 crore.
 
 Interestingly, in 2002, Italy had recognised Keshavan’s talent and offered him citizenship and access to the country’s existent luge infrastructure along with funding. However, Keshavan had rejected the offer citing his patriotism for India.
 
 
 
