TRICHY: Political parties clashed across delta districts on Monday, the last day to file nominations for the first phase of the cooperative societies election. Parties complained that polling officials were not available to distribute nomination papers, thus favouring the ruling party. 

 The election of Thendral Nagar   in   was postponed after   and TTV’s Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam cadres got into a fight and damaged the furniture, officials said. 
 
 Meanwhile, police arrested eight   cadre for allegedly creating ruckus at the Cooperative Housing Society at Saminathapuram in Karur. During the   that erupted between AIADMK cadre and TTV Dhinakaran supporters, the windshield of the superintendent of police’s car was vandalised. Disqualified MLA V   said that he would file a case against Karur police for arresting the cadre of AMMK, when AIADMK cadre was the sole cause for the clash. He also alleged that their cadre was attacked by the police.
 
 In Thanjavur, DMK and AMMK cadres staged a protest against the officials who did not turn up at their office to distribute the nomination papers. A large number of candidates along with their supporters from various political parties had been waiting to get nomination papers at the 16 cooperative society offices, which comes under the deputy registrar of Kumbakonam.
 
 DMK and AMMK cadres filed a complaint with  , the secretary of Patteeswaram Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society, after the election officer of the society was not available till 12 pm. The cadre alleged that even after a complaint was made, the officer did not turn up. So they staged a protest and raised slogans against the ruling party for being biased.
 
 State spokesperson of Bharathiya Kisan Sangam N Veerasekaran alleged that both AIADMK and DMK had a secret pact to eliminate TTV nominated candidates from the fray in  . So, the election officials were not available at their office to issue nomination papers to the candidates other than the above two party nominated candidates, he alleged.
 
 The Tamil Nadu State Cooperative Societies Election Commission had announced the schedule for electing the office-bearers for cooperative societies across the state and Monday was the last date to file nominations for the first phase of the election. The polls would be held in five phases, commencing from April 2.
 
 Farmers and functionaries from farmer’s bodies have appealed the state government to conduct the election in free and fair manner, so that the selection of candidates would not be biased. 
 
 
