NAGPUR: With the release of the film   , 501 girl students from   schools and rural areas were given an opportunity to educate themselves about menstrual cycle as well as many other aspects of womanhood and also enjoy the movie.

 Conceptualized by former Mr India   and Navin Mishra with support from Photographer and Designer Association of Nagpur (PADA),   Pratibha and NMC, the initiative was undertaken to spread awareness about the issue. Accordingly, girl students were brought to Liberty Talkies in Sadar on Friday. Mayor Nanda Jichkar was the chief guest of the event.
 
 Suraj Dhomne of PADA said, “For girls to open up about such a sensitive topic requires friendly space. Since ages, they are taught to be tight-lipped which has only led to so many deaths due to misconceptions related to menstruation. Awareness can be spread about it only through open communication. If we make this happen, girls will no longer be afraid to share their emotions and fears.”
 
 Varsha Ghatole, a member of the organizing committee, said, “A woman undergoes periods for 500 times in her life. Still, many are forced to use a cloth instead of napkin because it’s not affordable. Just like local cosmetics are free of GST and tax, sanitary napkin which is basic hygienic need of every woman, should be made free of cost.”
 
 Jichkar said, “Menstruation has always been a subject confined within the walls. Not just girls but boys should also be educated in this regard. For a better future, we must start at grassroots level, be it our households or schools.”
 
 Sunny Francis said, “We are one of the largest democracies in the world, yet 82% of the female population cannot afford six inch of sanitary napkin, which is a disappointing fact. Not just about periods, we will also conduct events about every subject which is considered as taboo by the society. It is important that the coming generation is imparted knowledge in such aspects.”
 
 Students of   (NMC),  , said, “It is an issue of awareness and courage towards expressing more about menstruation and sanitary napkins as a whole. Due to this initiative taken by our school in partnership with JCI Pratibha, we are experiencing a sense of boldness to speak more about womanhood and the problems that we face during periods. It has proved to be an eye-opener for all of us. It will surely prove to be enlightening for everyone else as well.”
 
 Ashutosh Rathod, police constable of Ranapratap Nagar police station, and many others came forward to support the cause.
 
 After the film, sanitary napkins were distributed among the students.
 
 
