GURUGRAM: Residents of   have written to chief minister   requesting that a   near   be shifted elsewhere.

 The shop has long been a bone of contention as the residents have repeatedly alleged that people often get drunk there and misbehave. 
 
 Copies of the residents’ letter to the chief minister have been sent to the sub-divisional magistrate of Gurgaon, Bharat Bhushan, and the office of the excise and taxation department.
 
 According to the residents, people often engage in brawls after getting drunk at the shop. They also blamed several cases of chain snatching and other petty crimes on the presence of the outlet.
 
 “This shop is a nuisance for all the residents of DLF 3. In the evenings, a large number of people buy liquor from this shop and start drinking on the road as well as in vacant plots till they are dead drunk. The drunk persons then get involved in eve-teasing, burglary, chain snatching and so on in and around the area. Large scale quarrels are very common in front of this liquor shop, which leads to injuries,” the letter by the residents reads. The residents also claimed that the drunken brawls often snowballed into cases of murder. 
 
 “We were prompted by chief minister Khattar’s statement in Patna, where he outlined a new policy to control liquor consumption. The policy says that if a panchayat sarpanch gives in writing that no new licence should be given to open a liquor kiosk under his jurisdiction, the government will have to abide by it,” said R S Rathi, the vice-president of RWA, DLF 3. “We hope the shop will be relocated.”
 
 The residents also alleged that the liquor outlet had given rise to kiosks and hawker karts in the vicinity. 
 
 “This is painful to the eyes,” said a resident who lives just 100 metres from the liquor shop. “There are religious places, schools and residential units here. The liquor shop and the crowd around it poses a huge problem for people here. We appeal to the administration to either cancel the licence or relocate the shop.”
 
 Repeated calls to sub-divisional magistrate went unanswered. Harsh Dhaiya, an excuse official, also declined comment.
 
 
