NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Friday issued notices to advocate general and principal secretary of state higher and technical education following a writ petition challenging the repromulgation of   (Amendment) Ordinance 2017.

 A division bench of Justice   and Justice Swapna Joshi also ordered status quo on the   elections of Amravati University (AU) scheduled to be held on February 26. Notices were also issued to AU vice-chancellor and registrar.
 
 The status quo is likely to have implications on several state universities which have implemented provisions of the repromulgated ordinance.
 
 Adv Ashfaque Sheikh represented the petitioners Bhimrao Waghmare, Avinash Gharde and  , who belong to Scheduled Caste and were elected to the AU Senate in October 2016.
 
 The petitioners submitted before the court that one seat each in principals, teachers and management categories was reserved for SC members of Senate. But, the governor issued an ordinance which stated that the point of rotation for reserved categories would be decided by drawing of lots by the VC.
 
 On January 18, the AU issued a public notice that the draw of lots would be held on January 29. Subsequently, the petitioners objected to the move and submitted a representation. They also stated that the ordinance had ceased to operate as per provisions of Article 213(2)(a). Yet, the AU proceeded with the draw of lots forcing them to move the court. The petitioners have prayed for conducting of elections as per the original provisions of the Act and stay the effect of the repromulgated ordinance.
 
 On February 5, Nagpur University had finalized the order regarding reserved category members to be elected by the Senate on Management Council through draw of lots. The NU elections are scheduled for February 28.
 
 On November 28 last year, the state government had amended sections 30, 62 and 109 while a new Section 99A was inserted in the Maharashtra Public Universities Act 2016.
 
 Through Section 30, draw of lots was introduced to decide the order of reserved category members from Senate to be nominated to the Management Council. The amended Section 62 extended the deadline for the constitution of statutory bodies to February 28 and extension of time frame for grant of new college permission through Section 109. The new Section 99A prescribed constitution of Students’ Council. The universities were directed to prefer old procedure of nominations in the Students’ Council.
 
 The bill to replace the ordinance was passed in the legislative assembly, but stalled by the legislative council in the winter session this year.
 
 On January 15, TOI was the only paper to report that universities across the state have started implementation of the ordinance though it was yet to be cleared by the state legislature.
 
 On January 9, the state cabinet in its meeting re-promulgated the ordinance in the same form that was stalled in the legislative council.
 
 
