CHANDIGARH: Four files containing sensitive official record pertaining to a legal dispute regarding quashing of President’s orders and a Union government panel’s recommendations for a   probe into the scams exposed by the Magsaysay awardee whistleblower IFS officer Sanjiv   — are reportedly missing from Haryana government’s record.

 Upset over the disappearance of the record, Chaturvedi has written a letter to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, asking him to hand over the entire matter to the CBI for a probe. The files, which are “not traceable” from the government records includes noting and documents related to formulation of petition by the Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government against the CBI probe, documents related to engagement and filing of the petition through a private counsel instead of law officers from the Haryana advocate general’s office and the file and noting regarding recommendation of the current AG for withdrawal of the petition.
 
 The report sent by the state government to the Haryana governor in response to Chaturvedi’s complaint in November 2017, accusing bureaucrats of conspiring to quash the orders of its own governor regarding dropping of the chargesheet against him, is also not traceable. “Disappearance” of these files surfaced after Chaturvedi, presently posted as conservator of forests in Uttarakhand, had sought information on these issues under the RTI on March 1 from the state government.
 
 In response to the RTI application, he was informed by Haryana’s forest department that none of these documents were traceable at present and were still being searched. In his strong worded letter to the CM for a CBI probe, the IFS officer stated that by admitting the non-availability of files/records, the entire criminal conspiracy has been exposed in which some senior Haryana bureaucrats and politicians, who were indicted by a central government’s committee report, were involved.
 
 “From sequences of events, it is evident that these bureaucrats have become defiance to even the office of the governor that even a report sought by him is not being sent and even the opinion of the AG office has been made to disappear. It appears that certain corrupt bureaucrats have hijacked the entire governance and they have become real masters rather than the Constitution, people of state and their representatives. Hence, it does not appear possible under these circumstances that any state agency will be able to properly investigate and punish culprits in this scandalous case of disappearance of these sensitive files,” Chaturvedi has written.
 
