DHARAMSALA: Powered by solid performances by left-arm spinner Dharmendrasinh Jadeja (four for 36) and in-form batsman Hanuma Vihari, who cracked a blazing, unbeaten 95 (76b, 16x4, 1x6), India B outplayed a thoroughly disappointing India A by eight wickets (via the VJD method) and 100 balls to spare in the   opener here on Sunday night.

 
 Choosing to field first under bright sunshine, India B put in an efficient performance with the ball to skittle out India A for 178 in merely 41.2 overs. In conditions where the batsmen needed to apply themselves initially, India A’s young batting brigade came a cropper as they perished to reckless strokeplay.
 
 Wicketkeeper-batsman Ishan Kishan (2) gave the charge to Siddharth Kaul, but ending up edging the ball behind, while Shubhman Gill (5) slashed   to point. India’s U-19 World Cup winning skipper Prithvi Shaw fared no better. After racing away to a 34-ball 28 with six fours, the Mumbai teenager, having just cracked a super cover drive off Jadeja, charged at the bowler again, only to mistime the shot and spoon a catch to mid-off.
 
 After India A lost their fourth wicket in skipper Ankit Bawne (5), a rain interruption forced the players off the field and reduced the match to 43 overs a side. When play resumed, Suryakumar Yadav (11) was the victim to a horrendous lbw decision by umpire Nandan even as he had clearly edged the ball while trying to sweep Jadeja. The only man who stood tall among the ruins was Andhra’s Ricky Bhui (78). It was then the turn of Bhui’s statemate Vihari to sizzle under lights. Putting the India B bowlers to the sword, the 24-year-old cracked as many as 11 fours while galloping to his 50 off just 32 balls. India’s strike bowler in Test cricket, Mohammad Shami went for 49 off his six overs, while rising speedster   was taken off the attack after going for 31 in just three overs. He was even more ruthless on left-arm spinner  , who conceded 54 in seven overs as Vihari kept using his feet to him.
 
 
 
 
