Kolkata: There seems to be no end to Aizawl FC’s off-field troubles this season. After the detention of senior-team player Masih Saighani at Imphal airport for lack of valid permit and the Rs 3 lakh fine imposed on the club for crowd trouble during their I-League match against Mohun Bagan on January 25, pictures emerged on social media on Monday showing their under-15 players sitting on the floor of a train compartment, some near the toilet and the basin, during their return from the  .

 The team was in Goa for the   football tournament, organized in association with the All India Football Federation ( ) and were returning home after losing to Minerva FC in the semifinals. Eighteen players, along with two officials, began their journey on February 8 on boarding a train from Madgaon, Goa, and reached Howrah, Kolkata, on the 9th.
 
 “After reaching Kolkata on Friday, the team boarded the Saraighat Express from Howrah on Saturday. However, as the tickets were not confirmed, the players sat on the compartment floor in the beginning,” said team manager B Malsawmzuala, one of the officials travelling with the team.
 
 “Once the train reached Malda — about four-and-a-half hours later, the team was able to get ten seats to themselves. They got two more a few hours later,” added Jahar Das, head of   youth development.
 
 Although eight seats didn’t get confirmed, Das said 12 seats were good enough for the players and the staff to complete the journey. “Train ticket not getting confirmed is a common thing in India and since it was AC 3-tier compartments, sharing the berths was not very uncomfortable,” said the former Mohun Bagan coach.
 
 While it’s true that a ticket not getting confirmed is a common scenario, it’s strange that the team management did not book them earlier. “It’s not possible to book in advance since we can’t predict how long the team will survive in the tournament. We could have gone after the group stages or even finished as champions,” said the team manager.
 
 As far as team owner   is concerned, the players were promised a journey home by flight had they won the tournament and that is why they didn’t book any train tickets earlier. “What has happened is, of course, sad but we always have their best interest in our minds,” said Royte.
 
 The team finally reached Mizoram on Monday after a 16 hour journey by road from Guwahati.
 
 
