MADURAI: While the world observed Sunday as April fools’ day, a group of youths from   village in Madurai decided to take a serious view of things and celebrate it as ‘April Cool’ day by planting tree saplings. The idea to turn foolery on its head struck the youths while seeing several memes shared on social networking sites titled ‘April Cool Day’.

 The group of alumni from Alanganallur Boys’ Higher Secondary School gave a serious thought to it. They zeroed in on Alanganallur police station where plenty of space was available to plant saplings. When the group proposed it, the police personnel were only too happy to welcome the gesture. Around 40 members of the alumni gathered and planted the trees with a helping hand from local people and policemen. 
 
 “When we proposed the idea, the police too were excited. Amidst all their hectic work, they assured us that they would water the saplings. Villagers too readily come forward to take care of them. It is just a beginning and we are planning to plant more trees in the days to come,” said  , an alumnus. To start with, the group planted 25 trees on the station premises and indicated that these were not small saplings planted for photo-ops or clicking selfies. All the saplings were already one and half years old and had grown up to five feet high. 
 
 “All the trees are indigenous ones and carefully selected from a private nursery. Since all of them are one-and-a-half-years old, they can survive the summer without much care,” said Pon Kumar. Alanganallur station inspector   said that they would tend to the trees and water them. They resolved to make sure that the saplings grew and benefited the area. “The summer having started, we too have started the feeling the heat like everyone. Once the trees are grown, they can give us some respite,” he said. 
 
 Each sapling cost around Rs 250 since they were well-grown and all of them properly fenced. They said they had spent around Rs 10,000 from their pockets. More than planting trees, the alumni members said they wanted to sensitise the people in the locality on the importance of tree planting. The alumni members, who passed out in various years, had recently come together through a WhatsApp group. Already, they have renovated a part of the school building by mobilising funds from among themselves. 
 
 
