Visakhapatnam: Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda) has launched a special drive against   layouts within its limits. After Vizianagaram district administration had sent a list of layouts for scrutiny,   identified 154 unauthorised layouts in the district. After the drive there concludes, it will be extendedto Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam.

 Speaking to TOI, Vuda chief urban planner V Bhavani Sankar cautioned people against buying plots in unauthorised layouts. “Proclaimers were engaged for the demolition of unauthorised layouts in Vizianagaram district. We have formed a team to coordinate the exercise. In the first phase, the unauthorised layouts in Vizianagaram will be identified and it will be continued further in Vizag and Srikakulam districts,” said Sankar.
 
 Explaining the intricacies of   development, Sankar said; “While the development of plots in the approved layouts is limited to somewhere around 60 cents of an acre, the unauthorised layout developers will sell off more than 80 cents of land as it would not conform to the stipulated guidelines or zoning regulations. There will no proper roads, open spaces, electricity lines and provision of other utilities in the unauthorised layouts,” said the urban planner.
 
  These unauthorised layouts are not only limited to Bhogapuram mandal, where the proposed international airport is coming up, but also to the entire district, including Denkada, S Kota, Pusapatirega, etc.
 
 The sudden boom in layout development in Vizianagaram district is attributed to a variety of reasons, the proposed Bhogapuram airport, availability of affordable land, Visakhapatnam city’s maximum growth towards north-east wards (Vizianagaram side), etc. A real-estate developer from the city attributed a part of the reasons for people opting for unauthorised layouts to Vuda is that the latter is limited to developing high-end layouts. “The middle-class sections are lured by these (unauthorised) layouts as they can get a 100 square yard land at about Rs 3-4 lakh. But the buyers should check the credentials of the developers and other details before purchasing the plots,” he suggested
 
 
