CHANDIGARH: Leaving vehicles at the paid-parking lots of the city should be free for the first half an hour, the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh ( ) has suggested to the municipal corporation. The federation says this will help the people who drive to the markets to just pick up or drop somebody. 

 In the memorandum letter, Foswac has suggested that if someone has entered the   zone to pick up or drop someone, he or she should not be charged. Foswac general secretary J S Gogia said: "This is because that driver is not using the parking facility. Similarly, if someone has stopped by the market for only a few minutes, say for collecting milk or grocery, even he or she should not be charged for the first 30 minutes."
 
 Besides, Foswac wants one ticket for one sector with multiple parking lots. "The authorities should introduce this system to be fair to the residents," Gogia said. The MC charges drivers Rs 10 for parking in the commercial areas, while the resident welfare associations (RWAs) propose no charge in case someone is at the market for just 15 minutes for the purpose of pick up or drop. The issue was discussed in a Foswac meeting where all RWAs were represented.
 
 Foswac member R C Nayyar proposed in the meeting that the residents who came to the market be allowed half an hour of free parking facility, in the belief that they came over the buy items of daily need. After this, most of the members agreed to incorporate the proposal in the draft memorandum. Sector-19 resident welfare association president R L Goyal said: "Another proposal was about giving commuters a 15-minute exemption from paying the parking fee, since it is a rule at many other public places such as airports."
 
 Another member said the federation wanted that the people entering the parking lots for pick up and drop be also excepted from the rule of paying a fee. Several RWAs supported the proposal and decided that this be sent to the higher authorities before they finalise the parking fee, which they did on April 1.
 
 Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said the association had forwarded these suggestions to the civic authorities concerned for implementation along with a recommendation for congestion tax. He said: "The authorities should name this tax entry fee instead of parking fee, since there are no add-on facilities at the parking lots."
 
 
