Gopalpur (Odisha): Placed at one corner of the nearly 3,000-acre complex that juts inland from the Bay of Bengal is the wing of a B-57 Martin of the Pakistan Air Force shot down over the Amritsar airfield on December 5, 1971. 

 This and other feats earned 27 AD Regiment the honour title ‘Amritsar Airfield’. Several such war trophies and vintage pieces of guns, missiles and armour dot the compound of one of the lesser-known units of the Army at Gopalpur on Sea in Ganjam district of Odisha. 
 
 The Army Air Defence Centre and Army Air Defence College here are the only ones in India and the largest military base in the state.
 
 “Our job is to respond to airborne threats, not only over military formations but also strategic installations li-ke nuclear power plants. Te-chnology has changed since 1965 and 1971 when the threats were aircraft-based. Now, there are threats from armed unmanned aerial vehicles and drones. Such threats are increasing by the day and our job is to create a shield. Therefore, we have a training ce-ntre away from the borders and with facilities to fire into the sea,” said Lt Gen A P Sin-gh, commandant, AAD College and Centre, Gopalpur.
 
 The complex trains nearly 3,000 officers and personnel below officer rank from the Army, Navy,   and central armed paramilitary forces every year. Of these, nearly 2,800 belong to AAD regiment and are posted to units across the country. They return to the base every 5-6 years to hone their skills. The best stay back as instructors.
 
 “Our motto is to kill the enemy in the sky and we even use aircraft for this. While the role of IAF, with a long range, is to tackle high-level threats, the ADA oversees low- and mid-level ones. We operate in the tactical battle area and move with Army formations to provide them shelter. For this, we train together. We are constantly upgrading. A training facility for Akash missiles is coming up here and soon we will also be getting medium-range surface-to-air missiles being procured from Israel. We can deal with any threats from across the western border but our northern neighbour has greater capacity-building capabilit,” Lt Gen Singh added.
 
 
