BENGALURU/MANGALURU: The  , which emerged as the single largest party with 104 MLAs, led the charge as almost 20% of its total strength comprises firsttime legislators.

 A party-wise age analysis of newly elected MLAs shows that BJP scored high in ensuring the success of as many as 22 first-time legislators, compared to 19 of the Congress, eight of JD(S) and three independents for the legislative assembly.
 
 The saffron party also romped home with the maximum number of youngest members, with Preetham J Gowda, who defeated Janata Dal(S) nominee and sitting MLA H S Prakash in Hassan by 13,000 votes. He turned 37 recently. A BE graduate from the Malnad College of Engineering, he was the pan India business head of Levi’s before plunging into politics. He is the first BJP candidate to win from Hassan constituency after former minister H Hanumegowda won on a party ticket in 1999.
 
 Among the 222 MLAs, Dattatreya C Patil Revoor (Appu Gouda), who won from Kalaburagi South for the second time on a BJP ticket, and Harish Poonja from Dakshina Kannada are the youngest at 36.
 
 The long list of first-time MLAs from the BJP includes B Harshavardhan, son-inlaw of former minister V Sreenivas Prasad. Aged about 41, he won for the first time in Nanjangud, a constituency that had provided a new lease of life for the Congress in the 2016 bypolls.
 
 The Congress also turned out to be a successful launch pad for the maiden entry of 19 candidates, including former chief minister Siddaramaiah’s son Yathindra, 41, a doctor who made a successful debut from Varuna.
 
 From the JD(S), first timers K Sreenivasmurthy defeated old horse and Congress candidate N Cheluvarayaswamy from Nagamangala, and Ashvin Kumar defeated PWD minister H C Mahadevappa from T Narasipura.
 
 Independent candidates, who emerged victorious in the assembly elections for the first time, include H Nagesh (Mulbagal), R Shankar (KPJP-Ranebennur) and N Mahesh (BSP).
 
 Employment generation to arrest migration, medical tourism and agri-connect entrepreneurship are some of the commitments young politicians like Dr Y Bharath Shetty, 47, Harish Poonja, 36 and Vedvyas Kamath, 40. have made to youths in Dakshina Kannada.
 
 Vedvyas Kamath who was elected from Mangaluru South says job creation is one of his manifesto goals. “Young graduates migrate to cities and go abroad in search of greener pastures leaving behind their aged parents. I have plans to end it,” Kamath said.
 
 Dr Bharath Shetty, a dentist, elected from Mangaluru North constituency aims to promote health tourism even in government sectors.
 
 U Rajesh Naik who defeated B Ramanath Rai wants to promote agri-based industries including organic farming. “Our youngsters are turning away from agriculture. My aim is to bring them back to their roots creating awareness on the latest technology in the farming sector,” says Naik, who is a progressive farmer himself.
 
 Harish Poonja, 36, the youngest MLA from Dakshina Kannada plans to hold job fairs in his constituency in Belthangady.
 
 
 
