PATIALA: Incidents of snatching are becoming increasingly common. In the latest case, Tripuri police booked two bike-borne snatchers who snatched a purse from a woman on Monday. A case was registered on Tuesday.

 The victim, a government doctor in   and MD student at Government Chest and TB hospital in Patiala, told the police that the two accused snatched her purse as she sat on her twowheeler after coming out from   Dukh Niwaran. She said she was carrying cash, important documents, ATM and other cards.
 
 
  
 
 On March 30, Sadar   police booked three persons for snatching, theft and causing hurt to a private bus conductor. The same day, Lahouri Gate, Patiala police booked two unidentified accused for snatching a gold chain from a woman who was riding pillion with her husband on a two-wheeler on   road. The victim was on her way towards her house in Rajpura with her husband from Patiala when the two accused drove up near the victim’s vehicle and snatched chains, cash and other articles. The accused are drug addicts and when they do not get money to buy drugs, they resort to such crimes. The accused targeted women, snatching their purse, gold chains, earrings, mobiles and other articles. Many of the arrested accused are also habitual offenders and have been booked in several theft or snatching cases. They come out on parole or bail and commit the same crime again," said Patiala DSP Sourav Jindal.
 
 
 In February, snatchers assaulted a city resident before robbing him. An unidentified person was booked by   police for snatching a bag from a city resident who runs a Karyana shop. The victim was coming back home from his shop when the accused hit him on the head with a brick and took his cash bag which contained Rs 5.71 lakh. the chain.
 
 Police said out of the seven cases reported, five were solved, the accused were nabbed and stolen articles recovered. According to the police, in most cases, the accused were drug addicts and habitual offenders.
 
 "We have arrested the accused involved in five different cases of snatching in the city and have recovered gold
 
