Actress  , who was slammed by Pakistani actress   and others on social media for calling Pakistan a "failing state", has taken a stand for herself and quipped that the peace between India and Pakistan is on the horizon.

  "Looks like Indo-Pak peace is on the horizon," Swara tweeted alongside a snapshot of a comment from an Indian fan, who said that "the people in India also didn't like the actress' words about Pakistan".
 
  
  
  
  
 In another post, Swara said she is happy being the enemy if it brings the "bickering neighbours" together. "Dushman (enemy) ka dushman dost (friend)! I'm totally okay with being the dushman in this case if it brings some dosti to us bickering neighbours. Peace and love guys," she wrote.
 
  
  
  Swara's latest comments come after Hocane slammed her in a series of posts over the micro-blogging site.
 
  "Pakistan is the country that you, Swara Bhaskar, referred to, in 2015, as the 'best country you have ever visited', and it has only gotten better in the last few years in every aspect along with when it comes to having bigger hearts and welcoming our guest," Urwa tweeted on Saturday night.
 
  
  
 
  "While you're on this spree of empowering women, I must say you've become a bitter person. And all of this is odd coming from a citizen of a state that bans their own films i.e. 'Padmaavat'. So, let's not talk about women empowerment."
 
  
  
 "This only reflects on you as an ignorant person, who is also quiet contradictory in her own statements. It's not a failing state for sure, but you come across as a 'Failing Human Being'," Urwa added.
 
  
  
 She concluded her post saying, "From the citizen of the Phenomenal Pakistan." All this started, after the video of an interview went viral on social media in which Swara talked about the recent ban in Pakistan on her new film '
 ', which also stars  ,   and Shikha Talsania.
 
  "They're (Pakistan) a non-secular state. I'm not surprised at all. Why should we hold up Pakistan, which is a failing state - I don't understand why we keep taking pleasure and feeling a sense of self-worth from all the silly things that happen in Pakistan," Swara said.
 
  "Apologies to all my Pakistani friends right now. Rest assured, Pakistanis have way worse vocabulary than we do. I know," she added. 'Veere Di Wedding', which released in India on June 1, was banned in Pakistan over vulgar language and objectionable sexual dialogues.
  
  
 
 
