KOLKATA: A day after the   killed two youths and left traffic reeling for close to four hours, scenes of usual traffic violations were the order of the day on Sunday.

 
 Even as a heavy contingent of policemen was kept on guard from early morning till late evening at the crossing, they failed to bring order at the very place that saw buses being torched and vehicles being damaged because of an accident allegedly caused when the two boys on cycle overtook the bus from the left while it was taking a sharp turn with the signal turned green.
 
 “On Saturday, the bus driver was not wrong in taking a sharp left as the lane towards   was offered a free left when the traffic towards   was signalled green. The bus driver didn’t realise that the two youths had sneaked in from a narrow stretch of road between the bus and the pavement, which resulted in the accident,” said a senior officer at Beliaghata traffic guard.
 
 So why didn’t the police do anything on Sunday to prevent a repeat of Saturday’s incident?
 
 “We were busy preparing the course of action for the area. We are chalking out a series of long- and shortterm plans which will come into effect shortly. On Sunday we had deputed a large number of policemen and ensured there was no repeat of the accident,” said an traffic department officer.
 
 Cops said a large number of residents cross the road everyday towards Beliaghata canal to fetch drinking water and most of them pay little heed to traffic rules.
 
 “We had made specific channels for pedestrians to cross the road at a certain distance from the crossing. But they refuse to use that. Even though we’re implementing them, it requires awareness among the people in the area to follow the traffic rules,” said a traffic sergeant pointing out anumber of cyclists who came out from a small cut-off where the   crossing that enters into the   area.
 
 Residents said they were used to crossing the road like this. “I live in a house just four blocks off the main road. If the cops ask me to take my cycle to the next crossing and then take a U-turn to reach home, it is not possible for me to listen to them. Hundreds of cyclists ride against traffic and enter Sukantanagar everyday. Why are you singling me out?” said  , a daily labourer and a resident of a Sukantanagar.
 
 Pedestrians like Rabi Dna and Prabir Samanta who were caught walking on the road and crossing against incoming traffic, said pavements were too difficult to walk on. “The place where we got down from the bus had no immediate cut to take the pavement and so we took the road beside the guardrail. Also, the pavements are too uneven and cramped,” said Samanta.
 
