BENGALURU: As the poll battle intensifies in Karnataka, major political parties are going into overdrive to win the Dalit community’s support.

 “Though there wasn’t much significance given to the Dalit votebank in previous elections when regional and local issues reigned supreme, this time around, the ‘D’ factor could affect election outcome, with issues like internal reservation and promotion quota for government employees turning out to be major poll planks,” leaders across parties said.
 
 While   is planning to host a mega SC/ST rally in Ballari — it is likely to see the participation of AICC president Rahul Gandhi —BJP is looking to counter the move with a series of Dalit Parivarthana rallies across the state. “We are planning to host   in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Davanagere, Hubballi, Kalaburagi and Kolar sometime in February. Prominent national leaders will participate,” said D S Veeraiah, president of BJP’s SC morcha cell.
 
 Earlier, the Congress government had organized an international conference on Ambedkar and launched B R Ambedkar School of Economics (BASE), on the lines of London School of Economics in Bengaluru to tilt the Dalit votes in its favour.   had resorted to ‘food’ politics with leaders visiting Dalit homes and sharing food with them, a move which threatened to backfire following a controversy over BJP leaders eating hotel food instead of the items prepared by the Dalits at home. In a damage-control exercise, the party had organized a luncheon for 30 Dalit families at state BJP president B S Yeddyurappa’s residence in Bengaluru.
 
 The reason why political parties are leaving no stone unturned to woo the community are apparent. Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) constitute 24% of the state’s population, with the former forming a majority. Of Karnataka’s 224 assembly constituencies, 36 are reserved for SCs and the community can influence election outcome in at least 50-60 constituencies. 
 
 
 
 
 BJP is expected to raise the issue of inadequate funds being spent on the welfare of Dalits in five years. “The Congress government has been making a noise about earmarking around Rs 86,000 crore for the community’s development. But nearly 70% of the funds remain unspent in several departments. Most of their populist schemes, including distribution of free laptops, beds and pillows, are ridden with corruption allegations. They have also failed to protect the interest of SC/ST employees and implement the A J Sadashiva Commission report on internal reservation,” said A Narayanswamy, former social welfare minister.
 
 Congress leaders said they plan to counter this with the recent Bhima Koregaon violence in Maharashtra, Union minister Anantkumar Hegde’s controversial statement on the Constitution, Yeddyurappa’s food controversy and the delay in clearing the promotion bill. JD(S), on the other hand, is looking to woo the community by making use of local issues.
 
 
 
 
 Dalits in Karnataka have never voted en bloc and nothing indicates they will do so this time. While a significant chunk of the Dalit vote has been with the Congress, the BJP has off-late gained some presence among the community. The vote will clearly be split. While social empowerment is critical for Dalits, so are basic needs. On social empowerment, the Congress appears to have a slight edge, especially in the light of dominant caste politics
 
 Many switched loyalties eyeing job benefits
 
 Dalits in the state have been traditional Congress supporters since 1960s but with the rise of BJP and the polarization practised by the Sangh Parivar, many Dalits have switched loyalties over the past two decades, which BJP exploited successfully in the 2008 assembly polls that helped the saffron party taste power for the first time. The Dalit bloc in Karnataka has 101 castes — they are categorized into touchables (right hand) and untouchables (left hand) besides Bovis, Lambanis and 97 microscopic minorities. Though the ‘left’ group comprises a larger population, its members started deserting Congress as they felt the ‘right’ group had access to more benefits in jobs and education. To placate the disgruntled group, Siddaramaiah inducted H Anjaneya into his cabinet two years ago.
 
 
 
 The recent Gujarat elections showed a clear divide in voters’ preference for parties. While Congress was able to improve its performance in the rural belt, BJP romped home backed by urban voters. With Karnataka set to go to polls in a few months, TOI looks at the urban and rural electorate
 
 TOTAL NO. OF VOTERS 4,91,05,503
 
 URBAN VOTERS 1,91,24,039 RURAL VOTERS 2,99,81,464
 
 Highest no. of urban polling booths in Bengaluru city: K R Puram (432), Yeshwantpur (398), Vijayapura (295) and Mahalakshmi Layout (270). In the districts, Shivamogga has the highest number of stations (258)
 
 Maximum rural polling booths outside Bengaluru: Holalkere (278), Molakalamuru
 
 (261), Vijayapura has only one and Ballari, Tumakuru, Belagavi Uttar, Hubballi-Dharwad west, east and central constituencies have zero rural polling stations
 
 Source: Office of chief electoral officer, Karnataka
 
