LUDHIANA: Two days after the alleged rape of a student in the school surfaced, the Ludhiana rural police on Thursday arrested two teachers for the crime. The police claimed that one schoolteacher allegedly raped the girl inside the school library and another teacher helped him escape.

 Police said the main accused teaches Punjabi in the school while the other accused, who was also the acting principal at the time of the incident, teaches English.
 
 Police said the Class XII student, in her statement, has said she took admission in the school last year and the Punjabi teacher raped her in the school library when she was a student of Class XI, police said.
 
 Importantly, a few months later, the main accused got himself transferred to another school. The matter came to light when another teacher received an audio clip in which the accused were discussing how they would make the girl, who had become pregnant, fall down in school and would then take her to a hospital to abort her foetus.
 
 The fellow teacher then lodged a complaint with the police, administration and education department.
 
 The TOI had reported the matter on Wednesday following which SSP (Ludhiana rural) Surjeet Singh marked an inquiry to the SHO. The police team visited the school, recorded statements and arrested the accused.
 
 SSP Surjeet Singh said, “The preliminary inquiry has revealed that one teacher raped the girl in school campus in January 2017. The matter was suppressed till the audio clip of the main accused conversing with another teacher went viral.”
 
 “The police have arrested the other teacher too for helping the main accused escape. Further, the police are investigating the case to identify facts about the viral video. The audio clip will also be sent for forensic test,” added the official.
 
 The SSP said the accused have been booked under Sections 376 (Rape), 120-B (Punishment for Criminal Conspiracy) of IPC, 67 of IT Act (Punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form), Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and SC/ST Act.
 
 
 
 
 The inquiry committee formed by the district education office has found three teachers responsible in this case. The report blames Punjabi teacher for allegedly raping the girl, English teacher for helping the main accused escape and a mathematics teacher for helping them. The report states that all teachers, students and members of former   have recognized the voices in the audio clip. The report also says the mathematics teacher took the main accused and girl to the hospital in his car.
 
 “The report has been submitted to secretary education, Punjab, Krishan Kumar; director public instructions (Elementary) Inderjit Singh; deputy commissioner Pradeep Agarwal and police commissioner R N Dhoke,” said Charanjit Singh, deputy DEO, who headed the inquiry committee.
 
 
 
 
 Chairman of   for the   issued directions to the district education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur and SSP Surjeet Singh to submit the detailed inquiry report with the panel within a week.
 
 
