Seventeen years after a man was murdered for marrying a woman of another religion, a   court in Kochi on Thursday found two persons guilty in the case and acquitted three, including the woman’s father, saying the CBI had failed to produce concrete evidence to prove charges against them.

 The court will pronounce the quantum of punishment on Friday.
 
 Kasaragod native Balakrishnan, a Youth Congress activist, was murdered on September 18, 2001, allegedly because he married the daughter of  , the fifth accused in the case. 
 
 
 
 
 A CBI special court here on Thursday found two persons guilty and acquitted three others in a 2001case related to the murder of a Kasaragod native for marrying a woman from another religion.
 
 Those acquitted include the father of the woman who was charged with conspiracy. Special court Judge S Santhosh Kumar will pronounce the sentence on Friday.
 
 The case pertains to the incident on September 18, 2001 when Balakrishnan, a Youth Congress activist and son of M Gopalan and  , was stabbed in a car.
 
 The 29-year-old victim’s marriage to a woman, the daughter of the fifth accused Abubacker Haji Malangh, had led to the ‘honour killing’.
 
 Balakrishnan, after being stabbed, ran towards a nearby mosque and fell down on its veranda saying that Iqbal had stabbed him. He was rushed to the hospital but succumbed to the injuries.
 
 As per post-mortem report he suffered five vital injuries, including on his chest and neck leading to the death. Mohammad Iqbal alias   of Thekkil at Chattachal in Kasaragod and Mohammed Haneef alias Jackie Haneef of Thalangara in Kasaragod were found guilty by the court under IPC Section 120(b) for conspiracy and Session 302 for murder.
 
 The woman’s father, A Abdul   alias Gafoor of Thayalangadi, Kasaragod and A M Muhammad of Chengala, Kasaragod were acquitted. The court said the CBI failed to produce concrete evidence to prove the charges levelled against them.
 
 Police had accused Mohammad Iqbal and Mohammad Haneefa of being directly involved in the murder and Gafoor and A M Mohammad for being part of the conspiracy. The case, which was being investigated by the Crime Branch, was later handed over to the CBI following a high court directive.
 
 Immediately on taking over the case in 2010, the CBI had arraigned Abubacker, the woman’s father, as accused in the case.
 
 The case was that Iqbal, the first accused, befriended the victim and took him in a hired car to a secluded area at Chemmanad Kadav where he was stabbed.
 
 Iqbal, who had fled to Dubai, was arrested by the CBI with the assistance of   10 years later.
 
 The lawyer who appeared for Abubacker, M J Santhosh, said that even the involvement of extremist elements was alleged in the case in its preliminary stages.
 
 “CBI arraigned Aboobacker in the case alleging that he hired first two attackers to take revenge on the victim for marrying his daughter. But the agency could not prove the charges,” said the advocate.
 
 The sixth accused in the case, Ahmed, had turned approver. The trial had started a year ago at the CBI court in Kochi.
 
 Those who were found guilty were sent to the Ernakulam sub jail.
 
