PUNE: The parents of a  , who was admitted last year to Grade I at the C P Goenka International School on Pune-Ahmednagar road, have alleged that the school authorities have “impaired their child for life”. The school has denied any harassment of the child by its staffers as has been alleged.

 Based on the parents complaint, the Yerawada police have registered a case under the   and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act against the school for alleged violation of norms relating to education and care of children with learning disabilities, often described as special children.
 
 The child’s parents told TOI on Tuesday, “We had earlier admitted our child to a different school, but we were not satisfied with the way they handled our child and, hence, we got him admitted to the C P   in April last year. The school started in June and we had submitted all medical reports of our child to the school and also a list of dos and don’ts that the teachers needed to follow in relation to our child.”
 
 The parents said that the school failed to follow any of the dos and don’ts, including the fact that he was not to be left with the support staff, he was not to be given gadgets and mobile phones and several other things. The parents said, “It was noticed that the instructions were grossly neglected by the school and they did exactly the opposite of what was told.”
 
 The parents also said that the school had promised them to appoint a special educator for him, which did not happen until the parents decided to withdraw the admission of their child in September, unhappy with the way the child was treated at the school as the system in the school did not move as expected. “The child is so badly disturbed that he does not want to go to school any more and is feeling insecure in life,” the parents said. 
 
 The parents also raised the issue with the trustees of the school, but nothing changed, they said. Later, they also raised a complaint with the office of the deputy director of education.
 
 On its part, the school has claimed that the child was referred to the counsellor appointed by it. 
 
 Rashmi Gupta, the school’s principal, said, “We have a process in which if children in the age group are not behaving in the way they need to, the intervention of counsellor is required. So the school counsellor did her observation and as per her assessment, her recommendation was that the child should have a shadow teacher. The moment we received the recommendation, it was communicated to the parents. The parents lodged a complaint with the police and also the education department. From our end, we have clarified our stand to both (the police and the education department) to their complete satisfaction”
 
 Sub-inspector P V Deshmukh of the Yerawada police station said, “The case has been registered on the basis of a complaint made by the child’s parents. We are looking into the matter as per the provisions of the law.”
 
 
