MUMBAI: The   ( ) may be miffed with the Indian Super League (ISL) and I-League clubs’ refusal to participate in the second edition of the Indian Women’s League (IWL), but sources have told TOI that poor organisation of the tournament is the reason behind their non-participation. The format of the   grants a direct entry to   and I-League clubs in the final round but so far none have confirmed their participation, despite multiple reminders.

 
 “The ISL/I-League teams had told us that they would participate in the tournament. It’s disappointing to see that none of the teams have registered,” AIFF general secretary   said on the issue.
 
 The final round is a six-team league out of which four spots are reserved for the ISL and I-League clubs. The IWL organisers went ahead and held the qualifiers in Kolhapur last year, where two teams — Rising Student Club and Eastern Sporting Union — qualified after topping their respective groups. But with no ISL or I-League clubs, the IWL organisers have no option but to ask the top-three teams from each group to participate in the final stage.
 
 If that wasn’t problematic enough, Punjab’s United Warriors Sporting Club, who finished third in their group, said they could not bear the expense of travelling to Shillong where the tournament will be held in the last week of March and so had no option but to forfeit their spot. Maharashtra’s Rush Soccer, who finished fourth in the group, benefits from that and will take their spot.
 
 ISL franchise Pune City finished runners-up in the tournament last season, but have decided against participating this time around. “The club (FC Pune City) is awaiting a proper league structure to emerge, one that needs to be thought through. Without which it becomes difficult to participate given the financial strain. That being said, our women’s team will continue to participate in local/regional tournaments like we have done in past,” a club source told TOI.
 
 Clubs have also complained that the fixtures/tournament dates weren’t given to them on time last season which therefore made it very difficult for them to get a team ready. “Teams have to include this tournament in their budget which they prepare at the start of the year.
 
 “If there’s no clarity on the league (IWL), how will we plan ahead?” said a representative of another ISL club.
 
 Other ISL clubs too have said that they don’t want to participate in the IWL due to financial constraints or other reasons. Indranil Das Blah, CEO of Mumbai City, said their focus was more on youth development. “We’ve chalked out a plan at the start and are just following that. Women’s football is part of the youth setup, but for us to field a senior women’s team right now is very difficult. It’s in the pipeline though,” he said.
 
 
