edited

 Pune: NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on the “sensitive issues” across the country. 
 
 “The Prime Minister is known for speaking. But does he speaks when he has to?” Pawar said, referring to the recent crime against women in Kathua (Jammu & Kashmir) and Unnao (Uttar Pradesh).
 
 Addressing party workers at a state-level convention here, Pawar said those in power at the Centre should create a system that would ensure law and order for the citizens. He added, “The current government is falling short here. The Prime Minister speaks about anything. When Manmohan Singh was the Prime Minister, he was being referred to as a PM who does not speak much. We agree that the current PM is not short on words. But does he speaks when it really matters ?”
 
 Pawar said an 8-year-old girl was raped in Kathua and the accused were arrested only after public unrest. “BJP leaders form J&K came out in support of the rape accused and even opposed their arrest. This shows the leaders’ mindset and the way they look at issues related to girls and women,” the NCP chief said.
 
 Instead of nabbing the accused, a BJP MLA, in the Unnao rape case, the complainants were targeted and the girl's father died in custody, Pawar said. Public sentiments were against the ruling parties and the results of the UP by-elections were a hint to what people were thinking, he added. 
 
 Pawar was re-elected unopposed as the NCP’s national president earlier during the day. The party had called for nominations for the chief’s post. The deadline for submission of forms ended on Sunday. However, only Pawar’s nomination reached the party’s election committee till the end of the deadline. He was declared elected unopposed and felicitated at the convention. 
 
 Pawar urged the NCP workers to adopt a more inclusive approach towards the party’s functioning. “Give posts to leaders from communities like dalits, OBC and minorities and women. They should be represented prominently,” he told them. 
 
 The NCP, which had snapped ties with the Congress during the 2014 Lok Sabha and the assembly elections, also put forward a step towards reviving the alliance. Pawar said, “The Congress should not back-stab the NCP like it had done in the last elections. Opposition parties with the same school of thoughts should come together to fight against ruling parties.” 
 
 The NCP chief raised the question on the use of EVMs during elections. “There are suspicions about the machines being rigged. Election Commission officials should give a demonstration of the machines, which will make sure that the votes reach the right persons. Our party is following up the issue with the Election Commission,” he said.
 
 
