Kanyakumari:  , the district headquarters of Kanyakumari and a town which has been deprived of proper recreational and entertainment facilities, has received a boost with the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation (TTDC) launching boating facility for the public at Ananthankulam Tank near Asaripallam

 Ananthankulam Tank is an irrigation tank that is spread on 20 hectares and is about five to 10 feet deep. The system-fed tank is fed by Pechiparai dam and usually has water storage for six to nine months a year. “Last year, the tank was desilted under the state government’s Kudimaramathu scheme,” a TTDC official told TOI.
 
 TTDC has developed the approach road, parking area, a wooden boat jetty and ticket counter. Eleven boats including four two-seater pedal boats and four four-seater pedal boats and three rowing boats that can accommodate three persons each were introduced on Wednesday. Six of these boats are from Courtallam.
 
 “Maintenance and painting works were carried out in these boats. The five other boats are new. Motorised boats have not introduced in the tank to ensure eco tourism as people have a bath and use the tank for domestic purposes,” a TTDC official said. The boat house is situated about a kilometre from Asaripallam Medical College Hospital and 500m from the Konam industrial estate.
 
 This is the third time boating has been introduced in and around Nagercoil town in the last two decades. “In 1998, we introduced boating in Parakai Kulam in Susindram. But it was closed the following year due to poor patronage. Seven years ago it was introduced in a tank near Vadaserey Bus Stand but was closed three years ago,” a tourism official said.
 
 Other places in the district where people can enjoy a boat ride are the ferry services to Vivekananda Rock and Thiruvalluvar Statue at Kanyakumari and Tiruparapu Falls. Efforts are under way to reintroduce boating at the Manakudi estuary. The local body is trying to do it through the self-help groups there.
 
 
