Coimbatore: The Madheswaran temple on Thadagam Road in R S Puram is a small slate-roofed structure that hardly looks like a temple. But, it wore a festive look on Monday as people turned in scores, tagging along cows, bullocks and goats, all decorated and decked out with flowers. It has been a long standing practice to bring cattle to the temple on the occasion of Maattu Pongal, due to the belief that the deity is a guardian of livestock. Forty-eight-year-old D Ravichandran, a milk seller from Chokkampudur, had come with half-a-dozen of his native breed cattle. “We have been bringing cows to this temple since my father’s time. We believe that milk production will go up if we bring them here,” he says. The name Madheswaran comes from Madheshwara Hill in Chamarajanagar, Karnataka, says Chellappa Gurukkal, the temple priest. “When cattle fell ill or refused to give milk, people used to take them to a saint in the hill temple, who, they believed, could cure them,” he says. It was in that belief that the temple was established. The temple has been here since 1700s, Chellappa says citing land record. According to a local legend, Tipu Sultan’s army that travelled through the area to Kerala, used to stay at the spot, which had a well. “Many of the soldiers were Hindus, who established the temple for worship,” Chellappa adds. But, historians say the Tipu claim might be a bit off the mark. “The temple must have been established at the spot around 300 years ago, in the time of Mysore Kings,” says historian CR Elangovan. It must have been established by Kannada speaking people, who had then settled in the region, he says. “Kongu region depended on cattle rearing before it started doing agriculture,” Elangovan says. “The practice of donating cattle to temples and taking cattle to temples for thanksgiving have been common in the region,” he adds. Chellappa says that all through the year, people bring sick cattle or those which don’t nurse their calves to the temple. “As a thanksgiving, farmers bring their cattle to the temple on Maattu Pongal every year,” he adds. Every year, around 1,000 cows and bullocks are brought to the temple from Thondamuthur, Veerakeralam, Pudur, Vadavalli, Edayarpalayam and Kanuvai, Chellappa says.