Vadodara: An additional sessions court here sentenced a resident of Bajwa to life imprisonment for murdering his wife’s paramour at Badamdibaug in May last year. Convict Milinkumar Rao’s wife Nimisha Rao, who was also made an accused in the case, was acquitted by the court for benefit of doubt. Milinkumar had murdered Krishna Deokar by slitting his throat using a blade on May 31, 2017. Nimisha had called Deokar at Badamdibaug since Milinkumar wanted to reach at a settlement with him. According to the case details, Milinkumar had taken Deokar little away and after a scuffle, Milinkumar slit Deokar’s throat. Deokar had called his mother on May 30 to inform that he was going to Kadi with Nimisha and would return the next day. When his mother called him on May 31 morning, his calls went unanswered. But some minutes later, Nimisha answered the call to inform that Deokar had died. While Milinkumar had fled away, Nimisha was arrested from the spot. Milinkumar was nabbed on the next day by the cops. Police had then stated that the couple had conspired to call Deokar to Badamdibaug to kill him therefore they had booked Nimisha as well. Nimisha and Deokar had met at a call centre where both of them used to work and got into a relationship. Nimisha wanted to divorce her husband and marry Deokar. The police filed the chargesheet against the couple in July and the trial began in October last year. Additional public prosecutor D J Narielwala argued in the court that the couple called Deokar at the crime spot by saying that they are planning to divorce each other. “The medical reports and the evidences gathered by the police showed that Milinkumar had killed Deokar and these were upheld by the court,” said Narielwala. While Milinkumar was convicted, Nimisha was acquitted for benefit of doubt. The court of additional sessions judge A L Vyas observed that police evidences show that Nimisha did not hurt or injure Deokar neither did she held the deceased when Milinkumar slit his throat. “Nimisha did not have any role neither was she involved in the crime,” the court stated in the judgement. The court also slapped a fine of Rs 1,000 on Milinkumar.