JALANDHAR: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA   said here on Saturday that he would move a resolution in the Punjab assembly to thank the Canadian government for providing employment opportunities, and a home away from home, to a large number of Indians. 

 Four days after Canadian PM   visited Amritsar, Phoolka said he would ask chief minister Amarinder Singh why he did not go to the Amritsar airport to receive the PM. “He created a chill in   relationships by doing this,” said Phoolka.
 
 Phoolka shared the text of the proposed resolution. “This House is thankful to people of   and Canadian government for providing opportunities in employment and business and a home-like atmosphere to large number of Indians. This House directs Punjab government to accord due respect to any minister or high official of Canada visiting Punjab,” the resolution read.
 
 He said the resolution would come up for discussion in the next session. “Protocol and good diplomacy demanded that he should have received Trudeau at the airport, instead of making him wait at a hotel in Amritsar,” Phoolka said.
 
 Phoolka said Punjab CM lost an opportunity to improve economic ties with Canada, where Punjabis are already in large numbers, at the behest of forces jealous of Punjabis’ success and rise in the North American country. “Punjab is in bad shape with no finances, no employment, and farmers committing suicide. In this scenario, a large number of our youth are going abroad, especially Canada,” he said, adding that Punjabi-Canadians were sending money to their villages for welfare activities and these foreign remittances were playing a crucial role in economic activity in Punjab.
 
 He said the Punjab CM or any one individual had no right to jeopardise all this. “It needs to be discussed in the assembly. The Canadian government never supported Khalistan and has only asked for justice for 1984 killings,” he said.
 
 He also said Amarinder should answer if BJP leader Ram Madhav could not hold a meeting in Canada was the cause of his (Amarinder’s) chill and reason for his not receiving a high foreign dignitary. “He will have to answer these questions in assembly,” he added.
 
 
