Painted quite a villain, the dreaded "Gabbar Singh Tax" is not giving the salaried upper-middle-class family of Kansals any sleepless nights. "GST (goods and services tax) or no GST,  's proposals will not shake our household budget," says   Kansal, homemaker and wife of private bank vice-president  .

 The family, which lives in Sector 20 of Panchkula, says the budget is "okay, okay", neutral in terms of revenue and disappointing on the tax front. A reduction in the excise duty on petrol excise is a welcome step for it. "Since most household items are now part of the GST system and this tax cannot be changed unless approved by the  , this year's budget was not so much about the prices of household items. The only upsetting this for the family budgets is not much tax relief for the salaried class," Vandana said.
 
 "The tax slabs should have been redefined as it has been a long back since the last big revision," said Sanjay Kansal. "The slabs needed revision because rupee has depreciated. The salaried class gets standard deduction benefit of Rs 40000 but it will include medical allowance of Rs 15,000 and transport allowance of Rs 19,200. Effectively, this is very little benefit. With the cess increased from 3 to 4%, this class will actually end up paying more tax. With price rise unabated, practically we have less money in hand for savings and household expenditure."
 
 The children of the family, however, are happy, as the budget lays emphasis on better opportunities for education and skill development. Engineering student Ritvik and Class-XI boy Kartikey are happy about cheaper footwear but sore about costlier mobiles and televisions.
 
 The budget has brought cheers to the family elders. Sanjay's mother, Santosh Kansal, said: "As a senior citizen, I am happy for higher interest on my income up to Rs 50,000." Being a bank officer, Sanjay's overall view on the budget was: "Considering that it is sort of pre-poll budget and our farmers are in real distress, I'll call the proposals pro-farmer and pro-poor, even a watershed budget. The biggest provision is 'Modicare' on the lines of ' ', where the poorest 10 crore families of 50 crore members will get annual medical care of up to Rs 5 lakh each in case of hospitalisation. It was needed. I like the provisions for farmers, be it   or credit flow to agriculture and allied activities or mega food parks. Operation Green will help increase the production of potato, tomato, and onion, and save us from abnormal rise in the prices of these food items."
 
