KOLKATA: Soumyadip Santra (19), who survived and witnessed two of his friends being run over by a train while posing for a video shoot on railway tracks at Belgharia on Monday, repeatedly rued the fact that he should have refused to shoot the video. The reason isn’t hard to gauge. According to him, only minutes before the accident he had alerted and saved them from another train. The second time he couldn’t.

 At 1.20pm on Monday, Santra’s childhood friends Saisab Dolui (19) and   (20) died after being hit by an Up Budge Budge-Naihati local at   bridge at Bediapara.
 
 “While they were sitting and acting on track 3, I was standing on the stone-chips heaped between the gap of tracks 2 and 3 and filming them on a mobile camera. Few minutes later, we noticed a Sealdah-bound down train approaching track 4 and quickly ran to a safe distance. I should have stopped my friends from acting further on the tracks or refused to shoot altogether. They coaxed me to continue. A couple of minutes after the down train passed, an Up Budge Budge-Naihati local suddenly approached track 3 and we couldn’t spot it. They were crushed in front of me before I could realize anything,” Santra told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Santra was visibly shaken while recalling the Tuesday’s horror. “Initially I knew nothing about their short film. They almost forced me to accompany them to shoot their video on the track on Monday. Later, I realized that the video’s concept was Saisab’s, who was more excited about the shoot. He borrowed an expensive cell phone for the shoot and asked me to film a scene where Sunil was consoling him (a student who was depressed after failing). They told me that it was their last shoot day and they would later upload it on social media. I still can’t believe they are no more. I never imagined that my two best friends would be crushed in front of me,” a tearful Santra said.
 
 All the three friends, from the same neighbourhood at Panihati’s Patbari lane, boarded a train from   station around 12.30pm and got off at Belgharia station. After walking on the railway tracks for around 15 minutes towards Dum Dum, the trio reached a deserted stretch on CCR bridge at Bediapara, where they decided to shoot as it offered a view of the bridge on the tracks. Santra said he overheard his friends discussing how their intent was to motivate their   and   viewers with the video.
 
 Santra, a first year BA student, also had a close shave as he managed to escape seconds before the speeding train ran over his friends. The cell phone, which he was using to film the duo, fell from his hand. However, he sustained several bruises on his hands and legs and suffered head and spinal cord injuries. “He still in trauma and has pain all over his body,” his mother Kajal said.
 
