BHOPAL:   ( ) on Monday issued the notification for the appointment of new director amid threat by students, who warned of resuming their protest.

 Issuing the notification, NLIU’s registrar Giribala   stated that as directed by the chairman of the search panel, applications have been invited from members of law fraternity for selecting the new director. Last date to apply in this regard will be March 5, 2018. The current director, Prof. S S Singh, will complete his tenure on September 18, 2018. Singh has been the director of NLIU for the last 10 years and is serving his second term.
 
 According to sources, the new director will be appointed well before the end of Singh’s tenure. NLIU students had accused some teachers and administrative officials of sexism, body shaming and maladministration and boycotted classes in the first week of November, last year. Thereafter, students went on a strike demanding removal of Prof S S Singh. During the strike, a girl student had even shown a placard to the director where she wrote “You can’t call me a slut” and a complaint was filed on November 10.
 
 The NLIU had begun the process to appoint a new director on November 25, 2017. The executive council of NLIU had recommended the name of vice-chancellor of Delhi University law school Ranvir Singh as one of the members of the three-member panel for searching the new director of the law university. Chief Justice of MP high court and UGC recommended one name each for the search panel.
 
 Following the formation of the search panel, few names would be suggested on which the university’s general council will take the final decision. Ultimately, the Chief Justice of Madhya Pradesh high court will appoint the NLIU director.
 
 In the notification, search panel has clearly mentioned about the eligibility for becoming the director. It has stated that a professor who has made significant contribution to knowledge and is outstanding scholar in law with minimum ten years of experience as faculty of law in university system or with atleast ten years of experience in equivalent position in reputed research organisation and also adequate experience of university administration will be eligible.
 
 
