PUNE: Rahul Fatangale’s family, led by his cousin Tejas Dhawade, on Tuesday demanded that the state government speed up the investigation in his murder and arrest the person who threw the stone that killed him on January 1 in the violence at Koregaon Bhima. 

 Dhawade said the family wants the government to appoint Ujjwal Nikam as special public prosecutor in the case. A condolence meet has been organized on January 10 at Kanhur Mesai village, Fatangale’s native place.
 
 Dhawade said his family does not suspect anybody and is not aware of who is behind the violence that took Rahul’s life. “Nothing is clear from the investigations and police have not given us any specific details about those involved in the violence.   and Milind Ekbote have said they are ready to face punishment if charges levelled against them are proved. It is now the responsibility of the police and the administration to conduct a thorough probe and table the facts,” Dhawade said at a press conference on Tuesday. 
 
 Dhawade said Fatangale’s death was tragic. “He never participated in the violence. On January 1, he was on his way home. He was an innocent victim. A T-shirt and the pullover he was wearing was of a local Ganesh mandal,” he added. 
 
 “ People are projecting it as a clash between two communities but we lost a family member. The administration should conduct a detailed enquiry in to the entire episode. I spoke to top officials in the Pune rural police who are conducting a probe at their level which should be conclusive with facts. The offenders should be punished,” Dhawade said.
 
 Dhawade said Sanaswadi and Koregaon Bhima villagers faced huge losses in the violence and they should get their compensation at the earliest.
 
 
 
 The   (MKM) on Tuesday demanded a time-bound plan from the state government to pay compensation for damages caused during the bandh last Wednesday. 
 
 Dhananjay Jadhav, an MKM functionary, said the government should expedite the compensation. The government will give Rs 10 lakh as compensation to Fatangale’s family but the organization has sought Rs 25 lakh, he added.
 
 Jadhav said investigation updates should be shared on time. “Almost 10 days have passed by. Like in the other cases where investigation updates are revealed at every stage, police have not given us the progress. We want the offenders arrested at the earliest,” he said.
 
 The government machinery should provide details on when the panchanama will be done, the preparation of files and disbursement of compensation against damages, Jadhav said.
 
  was a hard worker who was fond of exercise and fitness, Jadhav added . “His death is a shock. The state government must set up a gymnasium in his memory at Koregaon Bhima,” he added . 
 
 Those involved in the Koregaon Bhima violence should be nabbed and punished, he said. “ Culprits should be punished be they from any community. We do not support those who promoted the violence,” Jadhav added.
 
