KOLKATA: The   and the   on Sunday announced an   Consular services will, however, function as usual. The announcement follows lapse in Congressional appropriations which has led to partial shutdown of federal agencies in US since midnight on Friday. The full impact, however, can be gauged only after diplomats, US consular staff and other consulate staffers return to work on Monday.

 Sources said the consulates have been asked to prepare a list of non-essential employees who could be put on furlong, or temporary unpaid leave. A US consulate, Kolkata, communique stated, “US Consulate Kolkata   will continue to function during the lapse in Congressional appropriations. If you have a scheduled visa interview or American Citizen Services appointment, please arrive at the consulate at your designated time.” It added, “The American Center in Kolkata and the Library will remain closed to the public until further notice. Any inconvenience is regretted.”
 
 The American Centers in New Delhi and Kolkata have been non-operational since Saturday and, sources said, the American Centers in Chennai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad were also likely to be closed down in the coming days. The US Embassy in New Delhi and the consulates in Kolkata, Hyderabad, Chennai, and Mumbai will, however, remain operational.
 
 According to a senior US consulate official who refused to be named, this isn’t new. The similar shut-down during the Obama administration in October 2013 had lasted over two weeks, in which an estimated 800,000 federal employees were put on temporary leave. Issuance of visas or any consular work in Kolkata didn’t face any problems then, the official said. It isn’t clear, however, how long the latest stand-off in the Trump administration will last or how many employees would be in furlong or asked to work from home. The Trump administration, sources claimed, have indicated it will support measures to enable unpaid workers receive retroactive pay for this period. This was also the case earlier.
 
 However, a combative Trump administration left enough indications that the problem may not find an immediate solution. Agencies reported the Democrats stuck to demands that any short-term spending legislation must include protections for young undocumented immigrants known as “Dreamers”. These reports also stated that the Republicans said they would not negotiate on immigration until Democrats gave them the votes needed to reopen the government. The Republican-controlled Senate and House of Representatives held rare weekend sessions on Saturday to resolve the impending crisis, but failed.
 
