CHENNAI: India's armed forces face several limitations in the ability to maintain what defence strategists refer to as "operational readiness". The general consensus among experts is that these constraints arise not from a lack of spirit but a shortage of high-tech military hardware. The consensus is also that public sector research and development organisations, including behemoths like  , have not been quite up to the job. 

  These constraints are telling in the rarefied echelons of top commanders who are responsible for the country's security; they're also being felt in hitches that the services face in day-to-day operations. 
 
 But the government appears to finally have decided to engage bright young minds, including technology startups, to bridge the gap between the military's equipment needs and what it receives instead of relying solely on scientists in   research labs. 
 
 
 
 
 At DefExpo-2018, which starts on April 11 along ECR near Chennai, the Centre will for the first time launch a scheme to encourage startups to generate innovative ideas that can help solve the problems that theforcesfacein daily operations.
 
 The government is looking to startups for solutions to tricky situations and snags like these: What does a helicopter pilot do in an emergency, given the fact that he cannot eject to safety, unlike pilots of fighter aircraft? How do troops stealthily entering a terrorist-occupied zone locate each other; and would a mobile app help in such circumstances? What happens when an aircraftenters hilly terrain and the pilotloseshissatellite signals and cannot navigate? In a battle againstdrones, how do artillery officers tell an enemy aircraft from a friendly one before shooting itdown?
 
 The defence ministry has presented these four problems as part of a ‘hackathon’ that students and startups are competing in ahead of theexpo. While a hackathon may seem like fun and games, the government is serious about injecting fresh ideas into its military R&D system.
 
 Ajay Kumar, secretary, defence production, said the Centre wants to create a platform to get Indian startups to come up with ideas for the armed forces like their counterparts do in several other countries, especially nations in the West. “In countries like the US and Israel, startups have been working successfully with the defence forces,” he said at a curtain raiser press conference for DefExpo 2018 on Sunday. “Startups in India are very active in commerce. We are now making efforts to engage them, to link them with the defence forcesfor thefirsttime.”
 
 The ministry will, for a start, take forward theideas of thestartups that win the hackathon. If the government maintains active support for Indian startups, it may be possible for them to break through the PSU monopoly in the defence sector, experts said.
 
 The time is right, they added. The friction between the forces and the DRDO-led public appearedtocome to ahead last year when, as a defence report indicated, senior officers sought to overrule proposed advanced versions of the indigenous Tejas light combat aircraft and Arjun main battletank in favour of acquisition of advanced foreign military systems through transfer of technology.
 
 DefExpo-18 will have exhibits from 701 companies including 162 from foreign countries in halls set up on a 2.9lakhsqftsite. One of the major attractions at the four-day expo will be a joint live demonstration of indigenously-made naval, aero and land systems. The public can watch live demos on April 14, visit warships at the port on April 13 and 15, and tour the Officers Training Academy on April13 and 14.
 
 
 
 
