BHUBANESWAR: After a month long protest the agitating block grant teachers decided to put their strike on hold for next two months following a discussion with the chief secretary here on Thursday. The teachers will join plus two answer sheet evaluation process, which they had boycotted since April 19, in centres across the state from Friday.

 
 They have been demanding withdrawal of the 'controversial' affidavit clause prescribed in the Grant-in-Aid ( ) Policy-2017 and fulfilment of their six- charter demands including grant-in-aid for all.
 
 The government sought two months' time to take final decision on the demands of the teachers. "The government has been actively considering the demands of the teachers. We requested the teachers to call off the strike and they decided to join work from tomorrow," said chief secretary  .
 
 The government, however, refused to withdraw the controversial affidavit clause in which the teachers and employees have to declare that they will not move to court or stage protest against the government in future. The teachers will also have to withdraw all pending court cases against the government to get the benefits of 'notional grant-in-aid'.
 
 "The government assured us to pay notional grant-in-aid, in which it would consider giving salary as per the government scale from the date of joining instead of a particular date. They will not provide the arear as well," said  , convenor of All Odisha School-College Teachers and  .
 
 The decision will benefit around 60000 teachers and employees of block grant schools and colleges who will get increased salary as per the state scale. This will cost Rs 614 crore per annum to the state ex-chequer.
 
 "There is still some confusion in the affidavit clause. But giving full grant-in aid to all teachers and employees will be a good financial incentive to us, who have been working with a meagre salary for years and did not have any service benefits like pension and other service conditions," said  , another convenor of the forum.
 
 Pressing for their demands the teachers had boycotted both matric and plus two evaluation process this year.
 
 
