MUMBAI: Hundreds of students whose CA results were declared on Wednesday saw something miraculous happen on Thursday. Many of them who had failed to clear the exam accessed score lists showing them as passed. 

  did not clear the CA final exam as per her score card on the   website. But on rank lists available on the Internet, she found she had passed the gruelling exam in her very first attempt. She is not the only one. Mahavir Gundecha who scored 194 has been declared pass in the lists available on the Internet whereas his scorecard shows him as failed. 
 
 There were similar complaints from other states. Across India, students buzzed on social media and on chat groups about the discrepancy in the result.
 
  tweeted, "The CA Final result declared on 17/1 as per the ICAI website showing my result as Fail seems incorrect as I have passed as per the database." 
 
 The ICAI clarified, "Some mismatches had occurred in the file attached to the branches. Realizing this mismatch, the department had immediately sent the corrected version to branches and regional councils."
 
 Exam head B   said, "It was brought to our notice that this internal communication has been inadvertently shared outside which has created confusion in the student fraternity."
 
 Students were anxious about their exact status as their score cards and result list did not match. "At least 50-60 students I know are facing this problem," said   whose daughter took the final exam in November.
 
 According to some, candidates with scores of over 190 have all faced the same problem. Examinees are concerned whether the result database was hacked. "The result was delayed by a few hours and that is when they seem to have downgraded our scores," claimed a student. 
 
  The Internet had several lists with details of tens of thousands of candidates who took the CA final exam. "Such details are not possible from any external agency. This is a list that has got leaked from the ICAI database," alleged candidates. Many are applying for revaluation too. Some others are planning to file a writ petition. Others are organising a protest. 
 
 
