THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The ensuing byelection to   assembly seat necessitated by the death of  's   has thrown up tough challenges to all major political fronts in the state.

 With the   polls set to take place in 2019, the Chengannur bypoll is likely to be considered as a run up to the general elections. While the CPM would need to repeat its victory to consolidate the public opinion in favour of the LDF government, the   would want to position the byelection as an assessment of Pinarayi government. For the BJP, which for the first time, amassed over 40,000 votes in the previous election, it would be a challenge to improve its position, if not able to strike a victory over the CPM and the Congress.
 
 It has been widely assessed that the presence of a candidate like BJP's former state president P S   in the fray spoiled the prospects of Congress candidate P C Vishnunath in the last election. "The party has not started talks regarding the selection of a candidate for the byelection. The Pinarayi government has given enough reasons for the people to change their mind this time around. The UDF has every reason to win the byelection," said P C Vishnunath, the two-time   from the constituency who lost his last election to K K Ramachandran Nair by a margin of 7,983 votes.
 
 The surge in the number of votes that the BJP candidate garnered in the constituency was stunning. While candidates used to fail to bag more than 10,000 votes, Sreedharan Pillai received 42,682 votes in the election. "The BJP's presence would lead to a tough triangular fight. We are hopeful of comfortably wresting the seat from the CPM," said BJP state general secretary K Surendran.
 
 Though discussions to select a candidate has not yet started in the CPM, the leaders in the camp are fully aware of the political implications of the result. "The election would be an assessment of the LDF rule. Moreover, it would be a considered as a trend setter for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. We are confident of retaining the seat," said a CPM leader on condition of anonymity.
 
 
