RAJKOT: Even before the forensic science experts submitted their report, the state CID crime on Tuesday ruled out conspiracy in last week’s massive fire that gutted 1.36 lakh bags (35kg each) of groundnut worth Rs28 crore stored in a warehouse near Gondal town in Rajkot. DIG Dipankar Trivedi, who is leading the investigation, said that the fire was caused by a spark from the welding machine that was in use on the warehouse gate.

 This groundnut stored in the warehouse was procured by Gujarat State Cooperative Cotton Federation Ltd ( ) on behalf of National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (Nafed) at minimum support price of Rs 900 per 20kg. 
 
 CID also arrested six people including the owner of Ramrajya warehouse Dinesh Selani for negligence and violating safety rules. Others arrested include Mayur allies Mahendrasinh Bhurubha Dabhi, manager of Ramrajya warehouse and four labourers engaged in welding. All six were booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house), 201 (Causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) and 114 (present when offence is committed).
 
 According to the agency, the accused did not inform about welding work during initial probe and also hid the welding equipment and tried to destroy the evidence, CID said. 
 
 “The warehouse was open and welding work was assigned despite knowing that it was dangerous. The welding work was going on the 25-30 feet wide gate only three feet from the groundnut stock. A spark during welding caused the fire,” DIG Dipankar Trivedi told media persons. 
 
 Trivedi further alleged that the warehouse did not meet the criteria set by Gujcot. “This was supposed to be a closed warehouse. But probe revealed that there was no wall or gate. The wall construction work started after the procurement of groundnut. The warehouse must be locked but there was no gate and the stock was lying in the open,” he added. Further on, he said that the warehouse owner had allegedly taken electricity connection illegally from his neighbour. Also, there was no fire safety equipment in the warehouse. 
 
 However, CID’s probe didn’t throw any light on the role of Gujcot officials who are supposed to visit warehouse site before renting it. According to the records, the site was inspected by a Gujcot officer, but CID is yet to book any officials of the agency. “We don’t rule out any malpractice and we are not giving clean chit to anybody. But our primary job was to ascertain the cause of fire and action will be taken against officials of Gujcot or Nafed found involved in malpractice,” Trivedi said. 
 
 At least 17 samples have been sent to forensic science laboratory for testing. “There are still so many unanswered questions like was the psychical stock present there as per the record and was the stock substandard. Investigation on these issues will be done later after the fire is completely over. Some of the stock is still burning,” Trivedi added. 
 
 Action with regard to illegal electricity connection will be taken by  . CID has taken   footages from Manavadar and Porbandar toll gates to check if any groundnut stock was stolen from the warehouse. 
 
 
