NEW DELHI: With pretty much all books available on   today,   across the city are pulling down their shutters but the   remains an exception to this trend, even after four decades since it began in  . The 26th edition of the capital’s annual affair with books is here and book lovers are thronging to explore the wares.

 Madhur Malhotra from Oxford University press said that the fairs have now turned into the primary site for exploring new books. “Crowds continue to swell. People may purchase the books later online but here they come to look for titles they might be unaware of. The touch and feel of physical books can’t be replaced,” Malhotra added.
 
 While the nine-day long event features over 800 publishers, the fair seems to be primarily catering to a young population with every second visitor being a parent accompanying kids. Rajiv Singh, a banker visiting the fair with his nine-year-old son Advay, said it was also a medium to live their childhood again. “We have brought Amar Chitra Katha collections that I used to read in my childhood,” Singh said. 
 
 Many visitors attributed the continued interest in fairs to a wide range of books being available under one roof, for others it is a chance to collect rare editions. The availability of titles in other languages is a major attraction for some.
 
 The fair hosts an exclusive children’s pavilion called Bal Mandap that hosts activities and workshops, attracting schoolchildren in big numbers. Dwipendra Kumar, who manages the Mandap, said that the idea was to inculcate the reading spirit in children.
 
 This year’s partner is the European Union, and 32 authors from 13 EU countries will be visiting the gathering. Many visitors in the partner pavilion were disappointed to find that a large number of titles were just for display.
 
 Arundhati Devtoshale, the translator of Swedish children’s books in Hindi, said that the children’s books from another culture bring a different perspective to storytelling. “Swedish imagery focuses on nature while we focus on mythology,” she said.
 
 Another special feature attracting the crowd is the illustrated art sections and books. A large number of new startups and entrants are featuring their art doubling as books. Shruti from Tara books — which has a strong presence abroad with bestselling titles like illustrated Sita’s Ramayana — said that readers don’t get the feel of quality of print or illustrations in online medium. “For our genre, the physical presence is necessary,” she opined. 
 
 For the serious bibliophiles, five author’s corners have been set up where interactions with likes of Ruskin Bond, Devdutt Patnaik, Bishan Singh Bedi, Jerry Pinto, Michael Creighton, Mridula Garg and Ranjit Lal would be held in the next week. 
 
 The fair will continue till Sunday at Pragati Maidan.
 
 
