KOLKATA: BJP has emerged as the   to the   in the 2018 panchayat polls by fielding candidates in 50% seats in the three-tier poll body,   figures indicate. With 37.06% seats,   and Congress lags 8330 Independent candidates contesting gram panchayat seats.

 
 Figures indicate BJP is putting up its best fight at the tribal-dominated belts in Alipurduar, South Dinajpur, Jhargram and Purulia. At the gram panchayat level, where fielding candidates is the toughest, the party, for example, is contesting 95% seats in Purulia, 94.3% in South Dinajpur, 96.7% in Jhargram and a whopping 98.7% seats in Purulia. The party’s inroads in these districts could help it put up a fight in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, for these zones would account for three reserved LS seats (Alipurduar, Jhargram and Purulia) and one general Lok Sabha seat in Balurghat (South Dinajpur). BJP is also putting up a good fight in Jalpaiguri and North Dinajpur.
 
 But, the party’s show in two other tribal-dominated districts, Birbhum and Bankura, has been its worst. At the gram panchayat level, BJP has barely been able to field candidates in 10.7% seats in Birbhum and 26.5% in Bankura. “BJP, for all its efforts in and around these two districts, could field only 906 candidates for 4752 seats. Its performance in Hooghly, where its candidates are contesting in only 38.5% gram panchayat seats, too is not good,” said poll analyst Biswanath Chakraborty.
 
 BJP’s steady inroads in the tribal belts is not lost on the Mamata Banerjee government. The CM had personally intervened to resolve a growing unease among the tribal populace against some ruling party MLAs and an MP. Her outreach to the tribal leadership, including ‘Disham Paragana’ Nityananda Hembram, has not only soothed tempers but stopped the ‘Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal’ from issuing any political edict favoring any party ahead of the polls. These tribal community leaders wield enormous influence over the tribal populace in West Midnapore, Jhargram, Purulia, Bankura, Birbhum and parts of north Bengal.
 
 “As community leaders, our people revere us. If things come to such a stage that we must take a political stance for the larger interest of our people, we will do it. Yes, this is the first time we have broached a political issue directly,” Hembram said. BJP leader Mukul Roy’s advances to jailed PCPA leader Chatradhar Mahato’s kin has largely been negated by the state assuring a job to his elder son and working towards his release from UAPA cases.
 
 According to gram panchayat nominations, BJP’s best performance in a Muslimdominated area apart from North Dinajpur is Malda.
 
 
