PUNE: The   have detected 14 more  , taking the number of detection of such crimes in Pune, Thane and Navi Mumbai to 23.

 Two itching powder gangs comprising 14 men from Andhra Pradesh were arrested in connection with these cases on March 19. The gangs were identified as Chinna and Madhav gangs. Their members used itching powder among other tricks to distract the attention of people walking out of banks or ATMs before decamping with their bags containing cash.
  
  
 A special team led by the Mundhwa police’s senior inspector Anil Patrudkar was constituted by the deputy commissioner of police (zone IV), Deepak Sakore, after a spurt in bag-lifting thefts were reported in Pune since February 1. The team had arrested the   on charges of planning to commit dacoity at a bungalow at Keshavnagar following a tip-off.
 
 Senior inspector Patrudkar said, “The gangs during interrogation confessed to their involvement in 23 bag-lifting thefts cases — as many as 17 in Pune, four in Thane city and two in Navi Mumbai. Several lakhs of rupees were stolen in these cases in a well-planned manner.”
 
 The 14 arrested persons of the two gangs are Chinna Babu Kunchal (29), Samilraj Himoti Palmoti (25), S Vijyakumar Shekhar Reddy (26), Madhav Gogula (37), Challa Sunny Yeliya Salla (26), Rajesh Gogula (23), Santosh Devarkonda (36), Rakesh Avla (19), Yeshebu Gogula (52), Shivkumar Pitla (36), Atjal Avla (40), Subhash Banaku (29), Victor Pitla (30) and Amus Avla (32).
 
 Rs1 lakh, a total of 33 cellphones, seven motorcycles, sharp weapons, screw drivers, Parle biscuit packets and itching powder collectively worth Rs4.20 lakh were recovered from the 14 suspects.
 
 He said, “The spraying of itching powder on victims for stealing bags containing cash outside banks stopped after the two gangs were busted. The gangs after committing each offence had either deposited cash in the bank accounts of their family members or sent money through women to their native place.”
 
 “The suspect’s family members withdrew money from the banks instantly and spent it on meeting household expenses or merrymaking. We have conducted searches at the residence of the gang leaders, Chinna and Madhav, in Andhra Pradesh but nothing was found,” he added.
 
 Police suspect involvement of a new gang from Tamil Nadu in bag-lifting offences continuing unabated in Deccan Gymkhana and other places in the city.
 
 
