PUNE: The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted an interim anticipatory bail to Hindutva leader Milind   till February 20 in connection with the January 1 violence at Koregaon Bhima. 

 Ekbote, who has gone untraceable ever since his attempts to secure anticipatory bail from the trial court in Pune and later from the Bombay high court failed, will now have to appear before the investigators and cooperate with the probe as per the conditions of the SC’s interim relief order. 
 
 “It is directed that till February 20, 2018, in case the petitioner (Ekbote) is arrested in connection with CR No 09/2018 registered at Police Station Shikrapur, he shall be released on bail on execution of bonds to the tune of Rs 1 lakh with two sureties of the like amount, by way of an interim measure,” the bench of Justice Kurian Joseph and Justice Mohan M Shantanagoudar said in the order. “However, we make it clear that this is subject to the conditions under Section 438 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and the petitioner shall cooperate with the investigation,” the order stated.
 
 Section 438 (2) of CrPC provides that a person, who is granted bail, shall make himself available for interrogation by a police officer as and when required. It restrains such a person from directly or indirectly making any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the court or to any police officer and from leaving India without the court’s permission. 
 
 The apex court was hearing a special leave petition filed by Ekbote against the Bombay high court’s order of February 2 that dismissed his criminal appeal against the rejection of his anticipatory bail plea by the Pune sessions court on January 22. 
 
 Senior lawyer   appeared for Ekbote while lawyer Prateek R Bombarde appeared and submitted that he may be permitted to file an intervention application on behalf of the (violence) victim  . The   granted Bombarde two days time to file such application and also directed notices, returnable by February 20, to the Maharashtra government and the intervenor. 
 
 “Notice may also be served on the standing counsel for the state. The counsel for the state is directed to file an affidavit, within 10 days from today, on the submissions made by the senior counsel appearing for the petitioner regarding the law and order situation in the area,” the SC order stated. 
 
 Rohatgi had submitted that the Bombay high court has not released the full text of the judgment (dismissing Ekbote’s criminal appeal) and only the operative portion of the judgment has been released. He submitted that the law and order situation is absolutely peaceful in the area and there is no likelihood of any breach of peace. The apex court then directed the registry to contact the high court registry and ascertain whether the full text of the judgment has been released. The SLP has been posted for further orders on February 20.
 
 
