THANE: The   ( ) will start taking action on restaurants and hotels operating without valid licenses and safety approvals from Monday after the 15-day   given to these establishment owners for compliance ended on Saturday evening.

 Civic chief Sanjeev Jaiswal made the announcement during the general body meeting on Saturday after the issue was raised by corporators who questioned about the action over such establishments that are operating by flouting all safety norms. “We had given the hotel and restaurant owners a fortnight’s time to comply by the norms which ended on Saturday night. We will take necessary action on these establishments that have failed to comply by the mandated norms from Monday,” he said. 
 
 It may be noted the corporation had given a fortnight deadline to hotels and establishments with 500sqfeet area to secure approvals from the fire department as per norms laid down in the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act 2006. The action was after these structures were given 72 hours for compliance to the safety rules on December 30 following the Lower Parel incident. However, not many units responded to the notices who have been alleging the corporation of deliberately going slow on such errant joints and risking lives of patrons. 
 
 While elected representatives alleged the TMC was deliberately going slow on taking action against the illegal structures, Jaiswal spelt out that as per provisions in the law, the administration was bound to allow owners time to take steps for compliance. Those establishments than can be regularised by paying the compounding fees will have to be given an opportunity as per government directives, said Jaiswal in defense of the allegations made by the netas of a deliberate delay by the administration in taking action against structures in the Kothari compound.
 
 “A few structures have been operating from premises that haven’t been given the mandatory nod while others operate from spaces that are legal but have changed the use without alerting the administration. There is also a notable number of utilities that are allegedly operating by illegally making extensions or consuming excess floor space index to their premises. Such structures can always be regularised by paying the adequate compounding fees,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, a few corporators sought a probe into the role of officials or elected representatives who could possibly be conniving to ensure these outlets including the ones at the Kothari compound are kept operative despite flouting rules.
 
 
