PATNA: Patna University vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh on Friday said learning a   not only develops the personality of a student, but also makes him or her familiar with the culture of that particular country. “If we go to any country and don’t know its language, we cannot enjoy because we are unable to interact with local people. Thankfully, the new generation has developed keen interest in learning foreign languages. Language plays an important role in the growth of any country,” Singh said while addressing a function to mark the 10th anniversary of German Language Centre here. Head of the English department of PU, Shanker Dutt, said nation and society cannot progress without language.

 St Michael’s primary section: Class V student Pulkit Tiwary took oath as the school captain of St Michael’s primary section at the first induction ceremony organised on the school premises on Friday. Bhavya Anand took charge as school vice-captain, while Nandini and Rohinish have been elected as the captain and vice-captain of Red House, respectively. Ashmit and Ananya Omi took oath as the captain and vice-captain of Green House, respectively. Captain and vice-captain of Golden House are Soham Patra and Hridaya, respectively. Pragyan took oath as captain of Blue House and Sameer as vice-captain.
 
 The ceremony began with lighting of traditional lamp by school rector Fr Seraphim John, principal Fr Armstrong Edison and headmistress of the school’s primary section Vishakha Sinha. Sixty more members of student council also took oath during the ceremony. “To promote the mission of Swachh Bharat, a swachh St Michael’s cleanliness monitor was also appointed. Similarly, to enhance English speaking on the school campus, spoken English monitor was introduced,” said school headmistress Vishakha. The programme was coordinated by Rita Das, Suchita, Sweta Mishra, Manisha Prasad, Neeraj and Ashok.
 
 CUSB function: A certificate distribution ceremony was organised for Team Smile, a students’ initiative to reach out to underprivileged children, at Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) on Friday. The function was aimed at acknowledging the contributions of the active members of the team. The event began with a formal address by Badri Sankar Das, newly elected president of Team Smile, followed by a short introduction by a member, Aman Sagar, about the work and achievements of the team throughout the year. Advisory committee of team Kavita Singh lauded the students’ efforts and encouraged them to work in a better way in future. 
 
 
