We live in a time when lending libraries are downing shutters and reading habit is being replaced by smart phone browsing. In such a situation, achieving high footfalls at literary festivals and book fairs has become a near-impossible task for organisers. But the significant improvement in the number of participants at the recent   (CLF) this year shows that things are on the mend. The fifth edition of the festival, organised by Chennai Literary Association saw more than 3,000 students attending as many as 21 workshops conducted across 16 colleges in the city over three days. The participant count was 2,500 last year and the year before. 

 But unlike other literary fairs, it wasn’t a celebrity speaker or a book launch that drew the crowd. Interactive and practical sessions, specially designed to rekindle in students the interest in reading and writing helped in making the festival a success. Even though organisers had invited writers such as Mahesh Dattani, Carol Kathleen and Rizio Yohannan Raj in the past years, they realized the affair was expensive and didn’t serve the purpose — students in most cases were not familiar with many writers. Organisers realised that their priority should be to create interest among students in literature first. 
 
 This is where the concept of creative workshops made its entry. "For instance, a theatre workshop conducted by Dr David Wesly, a faculty of Madras Christian College, focused on the basic rules of drama. Wesly himself enacted an act, telling students how to write a play and teaching them the techniques of acting. In another session, Lavanya, a city-based storyteller taught participants the tricks to write a story, coin phrases and string them up in sentences," says V Meenakumari, the festival’s coordinator.
 
 Workshops were conducted on a range of topics including literary theory, copy editing, film and literature, corporate grooming, journalistic writing, theatre, critical thinking, translation studies, storytelling and Dalit literature among others.
 
 "Today, there is an urge among students to acquire new skill sets in the quickest possible way. The workshops were designed to cater to their requirements," says R J Kumaravel, president of the festival’s organising committee. Mangayarkarasi, a key member, says the wide variety of topics offered provides students the opportunity to choose the activity that interests them.
 
 "For the students, workshops, unlike their mundane classes create more opportunity for interaction and provide them a platform to meet and share ideas with students of other city colleges," says S Armstrong, head of the department of English, University of Madras. What helps is the workshops are free and open to all.
 
 The Chennai literary festival targets potential young readers and aims to inculcate and cultivate reading habits in students beyond their academics. 
 
 To give it fruition, the organisers roped in University of Madras and its constituent and autonomous colleges, like Ethiraj College and Dr MGR Janaki College of Arts and Science for Women in Chennai for the festival. Cross-pollination of ideas by eminent academicians contributed in making it a success.
 
 (The author is a publisher and founder president of Chennai Literary Festival)
 
 
