BENGALURU:   and  's inability to win over the two largest communities in   - Lingayats, who form about 17% of the population and Vokkaligas who constitute 12-15% - has cost the party dearly.

 
 Siddaramaiah's tussle with the numerically strong Vokkaliga community and his opportunistic offer of minority religion status to the Lingayats worked against the party, adding to the strong anti-incumbency factor.
 
 In Chamundeshwari, where the Lingayats are the dominant force, the outgoing chief minister lost by more than 36,000 votes to JD(S)' GT Devegowda, a Vokkaliga.
 
 Three senior Congress ministers who spearheaded the movement for minority religion status for Lingayats suffered humiliating defeats. Mines and geology minister Vinay Kulkarni (Dharwad Rural), medical education minister Sharan Prakash Patil (Sedam) and higher education minister Basavaraj Rayararaddi (Yelburga) lost their seats to BJP rivals.
 
 The results across north Karnataka, where assembly constituencies are dominated by Lingayats, also suggest that Siddaramaiah's 'political masterstroke' to split Lingayats went against him and his party.
 
 BJP has gained in Central Karnataka, Bombay-Karnataka and Hyderabad-Karnataka regions. These regions together constitute 124 seats, which means a sizeable Lingayat vote consolidated in favour of B S Yeddyurappa and BJP.
 
 GT Devegowda, who trounced Siddaramaiah in Chamundeshwari, said: "Siddaramaiah is not somebody we dislike, but his remarks about Deve Gowda in the run up to the elections angered the Vokkaliga community, which consolidated against him, not just in Hassan and Mandya, but in other districts too."
 
 During his four years in government, too, Siddaramaiah was seen as appointing people from his Kuruba caste to important government positions, including as the home minister's adviser, said political analyst Krishna Kumar. "The Vokkaligas did not take lightly what they perceived was a ploy to make the Kuruba community stronger," he said. In fact, the rise of Siddaramaiah's Kuruba community in direct competition with Vokkaligas in rural Mysore led to consolidation of votes for JD(S), he said.
 
 On the campaign trail, BJP president Amit Shah constantly reminded the Lingayats that the Siddaramaiah government's promise of minority status was aimed at preventing Yeddyurappa from becoming chief minister.
 
 Compounding the misery of Congress, its president   drew Lingayat ire for mispronouncing 12th century social reformer Basavanna's vachanas during his poll campaign in north Karnataka. The video went viral much to the chagrin of Congress which was looking to win the hearts of the Lingayats.
 
