RAIPUR: The 13th Rajim   is all set to begin on January 31 in the temple town of   district. The kumbh mela is the biggest congregating in   in which thousands of people participate. It is held at the confluence of three rivers - Mahanadi, Sondu and Pairi - for a period of 15 days. Sadhus and saints from across the country are expected to reach Rajim for the Kumbh which begins on Magh Purnima and concludes on Maha Shivratri.

 For the last 12 years, saints and religious preaches have been flocking Rajim to take a holy dip at the Sangam without fail.
 
 The main attraction of the Kumbh is the   temple which is famous for its historic and archaeological importance. A 7th century inscription recording the construction of the temple, dated to the reign of the king   has been found here. The temple structure is supported by twelve towered columns with stone carvings bearing the faces of gods in Hindu mythology.
 
 During the Kumbh, a special pooja is performed at the   and Kuleshwar Mahadev during the Brahma Muhurta at 3 am. After which the devotees take a holy dip at the sangan. A ritual named Kalash Yatra is also very popular. In this walk towards Mahanadi the women with pitchers on their heads. After filling the pitchers with water from the river, they head to Mahadev temple.
 
 Talking to TOI, state religious and endowment department secretary   said "To make this religious gathering more significant this year on 13th Kumbh, the department will organise a couple of innovative programmes like Rajim River Marathon, lightning lamps made of clay and Shankhnaad (during the Kumbh."
 
 The official said that the river marathon will be held on February 3 - covering the banks of confluence of Mahanadi, Sondur and Pairi rivers.
 
 The marathon will be organised for three categories - 5 km, 3 km and 2 km and the winners will get the prize money of Rs 25,000, Rs 10,000 and Rs 5000 respectively for first, second and third place. The theme of the river marathon is 'water conservation, promotion and cleanliness'. People of age group 15 above can participate, he said.
 
 Lighting of lamps will be another attraction that will begin on February 7 Devotees will float more than 2.5 lakh clay lamps in the river. On February 8, 1500 devotees will participate in 'Shankhnaad'- blowing of conch shells-at the mela ground at Rajim.
 
 The Kumbh mela gives a wonderful opportunity to witness the history, culture and attraction of Chhattisgarh.
 
 
