PUNE: Living close to the rivers that snake through Pune is turning out to be an ordeal __residents in Bopodi, Wakdewadi, Vadgaonsheri, Kalyaninagar and   areas are grappling with a huge mosquito problem.

 In Bopodi-Aundh area, the rampant growth of water hyacinth, an aquatic plant that is highly invasive and commonly considered the world's worst weed, in the Mula river is the reason for swarms of mosquitoes that invade the housing societies posing a serious threat of mosquito-borne diseases. 
 
 In the other areas, piling of garbage, construction activities and water scarcity are the reasons for the unending struggle against mosquitoes.
 
  
  (PMC) has recorded 158 cases of mosquito-borne diseases like dengue and chikungunya from all over the city so far this year between January 1 and March 25.
 
 “The problem was so acute that the our society had to carry out fumigation on its own. Inside the house, we use mosquito repellents. We have put up nets and keep the sliding door closed,” Rashmi Jain, a resident of Gold Coast in Vadgaonsheri, said.
 
 Divya Sarkar, another citizen, confirmed the high density of mosquitoes in Vadgaonsheri. “We were so troubled that our society has carried out the insecticides spray twice in the last two months,” she said. 
 
 People living in Bopodi-Aundh and Wakadewadi area also a hassled lot. “The Mula river flowing through Bopodi-Aundh area is covered with water hyacinth. This has converted the entire area into a breeding ground for mosquitoes,”Avinash Chowdhary, of   in Bopodi, said.
 
 Hyacinth covers the entire river. Every citizen and officials responsible for keeping the river clean can see it. But sadly, no measures have been taken to ensure that the river is free off hyacinth. This could have given much relief to citizens residing alongside the river’s banks who face acute mosquito problems on a daily basis,”  , a pharma professional, said. 
 
 Residents of Shanta Niketan society on Bhau Patil Road and those in the surrounding housing societies as well as people working in the IT park close by are also grappling with the mosquitoes. 
 
 When contacted, Kalpana Baliwant, head of the insect control department in PMC, said they were not aware of the the mosquito menace in Vadgaonsheri and Kalyaninagar areas. “We have not received any complaints from people living there. Construction activities and sanitation issues in the surroundings may have led to mosquito breeding in and around these areas,” she added.
 
 A Wakdewadi resident said, “There is no respite from mosquito bites in the area. Children keep falling sick and mosquito repellent coils and liquids are of no use.”
 
 Baliwant said the mosquito problem for people living in   area is acute. “The rampant growth of water hyacinth in the Mula river is the cause for mosquito breeding. There are some technical problems with the Mundhwa jackwell project on the river. Since the desired water level is not maintained the water is not released into the canal in Sadesatra Nali area on Pune-Solapur Road for non-drinking and agricultural purposes. The stagnation of water has led to the rampant growth. We are in the process of clearing the hyacinth,” she added.
 
 Of the 134 cases of dengue recorded by PMC in the last three months, 25 have tested positive for dengue at the state-run sentinel centres and hence considered ‘confirmed cases’ of dengue. Another 109 cases were reported by private hospitals. These are suspected cases as most private hospitals use rapid testing kits which, PMC officials said, are not fully reliable.
 
 PMC health officials since January recorded 24 cases of chikungunya of which 12 are confirmed and rest were suspected.
 
 
