It was a perfect pre- Christmas celebration in Doon as over 100 Doonites came together to take part in the   organised by BTDT ( ). The walk, that took place on Sunday evening, included a visit to city's century old churches including Morrison Memorial Church, Reformed Presbyterian Church and  . The group also attended the prayer ceremony and the carol singing session at the   and lighted candles at St Francis Catholic Church.

 Talking about the walk,  , founder of BTDT, said, "All the three churches that we covered have a beautiful architecture and they reflect the history of our city. These churches were built more than a century ago. The walk saw over 100 participants who didn’t just appreciate the architecture of the churches but also took part in the prayer and carol singing session."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Manisha, BSc student from Canal Road, said, "Before this walk I had never visited city's churches and the experience was just surreal. I always thought that Goa churches had the most beautiful architecture but was surprised to see the magnificence of Doon's churches.The wooden architecture at Memorial Church and St Francis Catholic Church is just beautiful. I went live on Facebook during the walk as I wanted my friends,who work in other cities, to see all the decorations.Many of my friends thanked me and said that they were missing their little town."
 
 
 
  Shivam,a walker from Dalanwala, said, "I visit   every Christmas eve but this is the first time I came here a day prior to the festival. Since the place was less crowded, I got enough time to thoroughly see all the decorations of the church. Also, thanks to today's walk, I got to know that St Francis Catholic Church is more than 115 years old. It is so well-maintained that one can't guess that it’s so old."
 
  
  
 
 
 Abham, a photographer from  , said, "As a photographer, I have always loved festivals as you get so many emotions to capture during this time. Usually, my Christmas clicks are of crowd at churches. But this time I focused on decorations and the architecture. Since the churches were less crowded on the day of the walk, I was able to get some amazing shots of people praying and lighting candles with all the decorations in the backdrop."
 
 
 
