TUTICORIN: The police on Sunday booked   founder Vijayakanth’s wife Premalatha, her brother L K   and 13 DMDK functionaries after the party cadre assaulted journalists who had gone to cover Prematha’s anti-Sterlite protest with the people of Kumarattiyapuram. The issue began with   repeatedly claiming that only their party-run   has been covering the protests from the beginning.

 DMDK initially announced that Vijayakanth would take part on the 56th day of the protest against the copper plant in  . In his absence, Premalatha and Sudhish took part in the protests at Kumarattiyapuram. In her speech, she repeatedly claimed that only Captain TV was covering the protests sincerely and even asked her reporter to come next to her and introduced him to them.
 
 She continued accusing all the other channels and reporters of being partial and playing second fiddle to the ruling party in the state and Centre. A section of the journalists then intervened and told her that she was not correct and that others too have been covering it regularly. Premalatha went on to say that the journalists had come there on Sunday only because she had come.
 
 At this juncture journalists boycotted her visit and were waiting in a house. In an unexpected turn of events, a woman functionary picked a quarrel with the journalists that led to a wordy altercation between the party cadre and journalists who were then assaulted by a section of the cadre. Led by Premalatha and Sudhish, the cadre then headed to Sterlite’s main entrance.
 
 The police arrested the DMDK personnel who tried to enter the plant. All of them were taken to a marriage hall in Pudukottai and released later in the day.
 
 Meanwhile, based on a complaint lodged by journalists, SIPCOT Police booked Premalatha, Sudhish and 13 other DMDK functionaries and cadres under IPC 147, 148, 294(b), 323 and 506(ii).
 
 Journalists also met the Tuticorin district SP N Mahendran and pressed for stringent action against the accused including the top leaders. SIPCOT inspector M Hariharan said they will conduct an inquiry into the incident and take appropriate action, including arrest if needed. 
 
 
