JAIPUR: A day after a 25-year-old migrant worker from Uttar Pradesh, who was allegedly lynched by a mob on February 3 on suspicion of being a child lifter, died at a hospital, the initial probe indicates two persons from the mob took a lead in assaulting Mohammad Faisal  , while others made no effort to rescue the victim.

 An official involved in the investigation informed TOI that primary investigation indicates that it was mainly   and Mahrendra alias   who kicked, punched and trashed the victim. “There may have been other people present at the spot, but the duo took the lead in rallying others to tie up the victim and beat him up,” the official informed TOI.
 
 Both Modi and Mahendra were arrested by the Vishwakarma police station on February 4 under Section 308 (Attempt to commit culpable homicide). However, the Jaipur police on Thursday added Section 302 (murder) of the IPC into the FIR against the two accused after Siddique’s death.
 
 “Things seem very conjectural at this stage, for instance somebody had said Siddique was walking to a shop with his friend’s daughter, but forgot her in the middle of a road due to some mental problem and when he realized his mistake, he picked up another girl in confusion, a woman standing next to him mistook him for a child lifter and called on other people to thrash Siddique,” an official told TOI on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The official informed TOI that post-mortem report of the victim has shown that he died of injuries due to beating.
 
 Mohammad Faisal Siddique, a resident of Sujatganj in Kanpur, was taking his friend Aslam Ansari’s two-year-old daughter to market to buy her chocolates when some people suspected that he had kidnapped the child. He was rescued by police and taken to SMS hospital with severe head injuries. After battling for life for 16 days Siddique succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday morning. Ansari had told TOI that his daughter used to visit market with Siddique everyday as they lived in a same locality.
 
 
