K Naseer Ahmed, 52, a resident of Coimbatore, has been collecting stamps for the last 45 years. He has an entire collection of commemorative, definitive issue and miniature sheets from 1947 till 2016. But he has stopped collecting them now. He has not bought a single stamp since 2017 and has left the hobby. As the price of the stamps has skyrocketed in the past few years, it’s not just him but a number of philatelists across the country said that they will leave the hobby soon. In Tamil Nadu, out of the 14,097 philatelist accounts with the postal department, 2,700 have become dormant over the years. The postal department that is trying to earn revenue with the sale of stamps has increased the rates of stamps released per year by six folds in the past decade. The number of issues released per year has also gone up three times. “Earlier if a stamp was released, we could purchase one or two stamps. But now postal department sells only an entire sheetlet. Also, several stamps of face value Rs 25 come in a package with assortments and we are asked to pay Rs 250 for it,” said Naseer. Sources in the postal department said that they wanted to promote stamp collection as an investment more than a hobby. But philatelists said there is no corresponding increase in quality of printing and supply. “Earlier in a year, I would have to spend only around Rs 200-500 for stamps. Now, we need to pay more than Rs 25,000 to buy all the sheetlets and issues that are released in a year,” said R Kasinath, a philatelist. He said the department released the children’s day stamp in November, 2017. But it was not available until February, 2018. Som Ghatak, 36-year-old techie also a stamp collector from Bengaluru, said the department was killing the king of hobbies. “I have stopped buying India stamps and only collect thematic ones from other countries. What is the point of releasing a new stamp if it is not available? Our friends from other countries keep asking us for these stamps and we feel ashamed to say that our country does not have stock,” he said. Philatelists also pointed out that it was a pity that all the new releases were available with the dealers but not for genuine collectors. If supply and prices were also ignored, spelling mistakes also found on stamps. Recently, Goann Tiatr, Pondicherry Jubilee and coconut research miniature sheets were printed with spelling mistakes. A Rs 100 value coffee stamp was released with a claim that it will have smell of coffee, but it did not have, pointed out a philatelist. Mahesh Parekh, committee member of South India philatelist association, said that the increase in rates can be attributed to the increase in the cost of operation as well. “The department has not increased the postage stamp rates for several years. It is a fact that genuine collectors are affected but we need to help collectors become more organized and create awareness,” he said.  The chief postmaster general, Tamil Nadu circle, M Sampath wondered why would they hold several workshops, exhibitions, programmes and provide scholarships to children across the state if they wanted to promote it as an investment. “We agree that the rates and the number of issues have increased. But so far we have not received any written or oral complaint from the philatelists. We will definitely look into the supply and set it right,” he said. He added that in Chennai alone, 2,000 school students have taken up the hobby in the past six months.