

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ambati Rayudu (16* off 19 balls) completed the run chase with a four off Carlos Brathwaite. Shane Watson remained unbeaten 117 off 57 balls, which included eight maximums and 11 boundaries
 
 
 11 RUNS! Shane Watson (117* off 57 balls) hit back-to-back fours off Siddarth Kaul
 
 
 12 RUNS! Shane Watson (108* off 53) hit back-to-back fours off final two balls of Rashid Khan, who returned with figures of 0/24 in four overs
 
 
  for Shane Watson off 51 balls, his second of the season. CSK 157/2
 Watson hit eight sixes and seven fours to reach the milestone
 
 
 Ambati Rayudu hit a six in the over but Bhuvneshwar Kumar gave away just eight runs in it to finish with figures of 0/17 in four overs
 
 
 
 Time-Out
 
 
 Maiden over from Rashid Khan, even though a leg bye came in it.
 
 
 14 RUNS! Shane Watson (97* off 48 balls) ended the Carlos Brathwaite over with a four and a six 
 
 
  Finally a wicket for SRH. Carlos Brathwaite struck to dismiss Suresh Raina (32). CSK 133/2
 Raina hit a six and three fours in his 24-ball innings
 
 
 27 RUNS! Shane Watson (86* off 45 balls) clobbered 27 runs off Sandeep Sharma as he smacked three consecutive sixes and two fours. Sandeep finished his quota of fours overs with dismal figures of 1 for 52.
 
 
 Shane Watson (60* off 39) hit a four as CSK scored nine runs in Carlos Brathwaite's first over
 
 
 
 
 15 RUNS! Shane Watson (53* off 35) started the Shakib Al Hasan over with a six and Suresh Raina (29* off 20) ended it another maximum. 
 
 
  for Shane Watson off 33 balls with the help of four sixes and three fours. Completed the milestone with a six off Shakib Al Hasan. CSK 86/1
 
 
 Suresh Raina (22* off 17 balls) ended the Rashid Khan over with a four
 
 
 
 16 RUNS! Another expensive over from Siddarth Kaul as he conceded 16 runs again. Shane Watson (43*) hit a six and a four in it. 
 
 Time-Out
 
 
 
 Rashid Khan put a brake on the run flow as he conceded just five runs in his first over, including a leg bye
 
 
 16 RUNS! Shane Watson started with a six in the second ball and Suresh Raina hit two fours off Siddarth Kaul after that as CSK scored 31 runs in the last two overs 
 
 
 15 RUNS! End of Powerplay. Finally a big over for CSK. Shane Watson (19* off 19 balls) smacked Sandeep Sharma a six and a four in consecutive balls.
 
 
  Shane Watson smacked the first maximum of the run chase off Sandeep Sharma. CSK 29/1
 
 
 Another good over from Bhuvneshwar Kumar, gave away just four singles in his third over.
 
 
 
  Caught & Bowled. Sandeep Sharma struck with last ball of the over to dismiss Faf du Plessis (10). CSK 16/1
 
 
  
 
 Another outstanding over from Bhuvi, conceded first run in his 11th ball of the innings. Unfortunately, Deepak Hooda's over throw gave CSK a bonus boundary 
 
 
 Good start from Sandeep Sharma too, gave away just five runs in it. Faf du Plessis opened his account with a four 
 
 
 Maiden Over! Brilliant start from Bhuvneshwar Kumar
 
 Shane Watson and Faf du Plessis start the CSK run chase. Bhuvneshwar Kumar with the ball for SRH
 
 
 
 
 10 RUNS! Shardul Thakur struck with the last ball to dismiss Carlos Brathwaite (21 off 11 balls), after the West Indian hit a six in the penultimate ball. Yusuf Pathan remained unbeaten on 45 off 25 balls, which included two sixes and four boundaries
 
 
 Carlos Brathwaite (15* off 8 balls) finished it with a massive six but it was a brilliant over from Lungi Ngidi (1/26 in four overs) as the South African conceded just eight runs in the all-important penultimate over.
 
 
 16 RUNS! Yusuf Pathan ended the over with a four after Carlos Brathwaite smacked a big six. Dwayne Bravo finished with the figures of 1/46 in four overs
 
 
 
 
 
 OUT! Lungi Ngidi struck with the last ball to dismiss Deepak Hooda (3) as the batsman's bad form continued. Yusuf Pathan (35* off 18 balls) hit a six as SRH scored 10 runs in the over
 
 
 Yusuf Pathan (27* off 15) started the over with a four, but Dwayne Bravo came back strongly to dismiss Shakib Al Hasan (23).
 
 Time-Out
 
 
  Dwayne Bravo got rid of Shakib Al Hasan (23). SRH 133/4
 Suresh Raina took a brilliant catch to send back the Bangladesh allrounder, who hit a six and two fours during his 15-ball innings 
 
 
 9 RUNS! Yusuf Pathan (21* off 12) hit a six off the second ball, but Karn Sharma came back strongly to concede just three more in the over
 
 
 9 RUNS! Yusuf Pathan (14* off 9) hit a four off Shardul Thakur as SRH collected five singles too.
 
 
 Successful over from spinner Karn Sharma. For SRH, Yusuf Pathan (7*) opened his account with a boundary 
 
 
  Massive blow for Sunrisers. Karn Sharma dismissed Kane Williamson (47). SRH 101/3
 SRH skipper Kane Williamson missed a deserving fifty and was out stumped for 47 off 36 balls, which included two sixes and five fours.
 
 
 
 11 RUNS! Kane Williamson (47* off 35 balls) smacked back-to-back fours off Dwayne Bravo as SRH scored 51 in the last five overs
 
 
 
 
 17 RUNS! Big over for SRH. Shakib Al Hasan (17*) ended the Ravindra Jadeja over with a six and a four in consecutive balls. Kane Williamson (37*) also hit a four in the over
 
 
 Pacer Deepak Chahar came back and gave away just three singles to return with figures of 0/25 in four overs
 
 
 Successful start for Ravindra Jadeja as he broke the partnership between SRH's two top batsmen by dismissing Shikhar Dhawan (26 off 25 balls).
 
 
  Big Wicket. Ravindra Jadeja clean bowled Shikhar Dhawan for 26. SRH 64/2
 Shakib Al Hasan came out as SRH No. 4
 
 Strategic time-out
 
 
 
 11 RUNS! Kane Williamson (28*) ended the Dwayne Bravo over with a four and a six in the last two balls 
 
 
 
 Shikhar Dhawan hit a four in the first over of Karn Sharma as the spinner gave away nine runs in it 
 
 
 
 
 12 RUNS! End of Powerplay. Another big over for SRH. This time, Shikhar Dhawan hit a six over long-on off Shardul Thakur 
 
 
 13 RUNS! Big over for SRH. Kane Williamson hit a six and a four off Deepak Chahar. 
 
 
  First maximum of the evening came off the bat of Kane Williamson, a top-edge but the SRH skipper won't mind. SRH 24/1 
 
 
 A rare maiden over from Lungi Ngidi as Kane Williamson failed to find gaps in the outfield.
 
 
 Another good over from Deepak Chahar as the pacer conceded just three singles in it
 
 
 Shikhar Dhawan hit a four as SRH scored eight runs in the Lungi Ngidi over, but they lost Goswami while going for a needless second run.
 
 
  Shreevats Goswami run out for 5. SRH 13/1
 Goswami was nowhere near the crease as they tried to snatch second run. Good throw from Karn Sharma and MS Dhoni did the rest.
 
 
  Shikhar Dhawan flicked one to fine leg for first boundary of the evening. Good effort from Karn Sharma, but he touched the rope while clearing the ball
 
 Lungi Ngidi from the other end for CSK
 
 
 Deepak Chahar started with a no-ball (for height) but recovered well to concede just six runs in the first over 
 
 Here we go...Shikhar Dhawan and Shreevats Goswami start the SRH innings. Deepak Chahar with the ball for CSK 
 
 Players of both the teams are out in the field and it's time for the National Anthem
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Shane Watson, Faf du Plessis, Suresh Raina, Ambati Rayudu, MS Dhoni (w/c), Dwayne Bravo, Ravindra Jadeja, Deepak Chahar, Karn Sharma, Shardul Thakur, Lungi Ngidi
 
 
  Shikhar Dhawan, Shreevats Goswami (w), Kane Williamson (c), Shakib Al Hasan, Deepak Hooda, Yusuf Pathan, Carlos Brathwaite, Rashid Khan, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Siddarth Kaul, Sandeep Sharma
 
 
 
 
  Karn Sharma replaced Harbhajan Singh
 
  Sandeep Sharma in for Khaleel Ahmed; Saha is injured and is replaced by Shreevats Goswami.
 
 
 
 "Interesting Surface. Looks a little tacky on top and dry underneath it. This surface is a little tacky, which is why they put water on it recently. I personally like a good total up on the board in a big final. That being said, I would put the opposition in to bat if I won the toss, because it is likely to do something first up. And if it seams around, it will spin too." - 
 
 Hello and welcome to the live coverage of 2018 Indian Premier League final between Chennai Super Kings and Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Wankhede stadium in Mumbai. The summit clash start at 7 pm (IST), with toss at 6:30 pm.
 
