From   district to the  , Chanakyapuri and now, the   has seen many street art projects being taken up by city-based and even foreign artists in the last two years. These artists say that since street art and vandalism go hand in hand, they do not expect people to not put up posters or spit on the walls just because it is bearing art. However, what these artists do not expect is government officials whitewashing on their work of art. And that is exactly what they did to the walls of the Lodhi Road-Nizamuddin flyover which were painted by the artists of  . We spoke to a few artists about this 'clean up' by the   staff and they termed the move as "sad and discouraging."

 
 
  
  Lodhi Road flyover (BCCL/ Samik Sen)ID: 62556739
 
  
 Last year, in April, the artists of Delhi Street Art and volunteers from citizens' group New Delhi Rising collaborated with school students to give a makeover to the pillars of the Moolchand and the Lodhi Road flyover. Yogesh Saini, founder, Delhi Street Art, says, "I have received a number of queries on what happened to these flyovers. Even we were surprised to see it 'cleaned up' by the PWD staff. But we can’t help it. The wall was painted in collaboration with hearing-impaired artists, and we used sign language. But the PWD asked us not to take it any further because they were going to paint it. When we asked them about the paint they’ll be using so that the art can remain, we didn’t get any response. We are still hoping that we can recreate the same artwork." The PWD officials, however, said that permission was not taken to paint the Lodhi Road-Nizamuddin flyover, and so it was white-washed. Saini agrees, "We didn’t take permission to paint this flyover because it was taken up as a volunteer project with other groups after cleaning the dirty walls of flyovers and pillars, not as a collaboration."
 
  
 Our story when volunteers of Delhi Street Art gave a makeover to the Moolchand flyover
 
  
  Our story on their cleanliness drive at the flyover
 
  
 When we spoke to artists who collaborated for art projects, they told us that art defaced by pedestrians is one thing, but when art is defaced in the name of renovation, then it’s discouraging. An artist, who was associated with the project, says, "It takes us 3-4 days to finish our work. We have done street art in many areas across NCR, but the Lodhi Road-Nizamuddin flyover was one of the most talked about projects because people travelling from Noida to Delhi take that route. I have often seen people stopping to click pictures or take videos. It's public art, and if the public administrators only don't appreciate it, it's sad."
 
  
  
  Moolchand flyover(BCCL/ Samik Sen)
 
 Raj Kanojia, another artist who has been involved with several street art projects, says, "In general, artists often face difficulties doing street art. But in the last 2-3 years, there have been many collaborative projects with the municipal corporations and the Delhi Metro. The plain walls in Delhi have gotten an arty makeover. But it is quite discouraging when street art projects are whitewashed upon. It's painful to see your art gone. Also, it was a collaborative effort, there were pedestrians and school students who came together for a particular project. They will not come together to work if this continues."
 
  
 Another artist, who has been involved with several art projects in Delhi, says, "This is not a 'clean up', it is another form of vandalism. It makes me so angry just thinking that somebody's work is gone because some government officials could not understand what art is! Delhi Metro has been using art to beautify stations, NDMC has used it for its subways, and PWD officials should ask them about the kind of response they have received. I was part of a project in Jaipur, and the people there know about our street art projects in Delhi. While we keep getting calls from other cities to do the same artwork that we have done in Delhi, the government officials here are whitewashing on our art. It's an irony we have to live with!" 
 
 Deepak Saini, another artist, says, "These are not just graffiti paintings with messages. It is done to beautify the city. It is not going to stop with one whitewash. At Kashmere Gate, we've stopped doing our work for the time being since the PWD started painting other walls. We have painted at the New Delhi Railway Station and now we are doing so at Nizamuddin. So the work will go on."
 
  
  
 
