KOLKATA: Kerala stormed into the semifinals of the 72nd   beating Maharashtra 3-0 in a Group A encounter at the Howrah stadium here on Sunday. With three wins from as many matches, Kerala and Bengal are tied on nine points each but the former are on top of the group table on goal difference. The two teams will fight for the top spot in group when they face-off in their last group league tie on Tuesday.

 
 Rahul V Raj gave Kerala the breakthrough in the 24th minute from the penalty spot while Jithin MS (39) and Rahul KP (58) completed the rout.
 
 The game got off to a brisk start with Kerala calling all the shots. They could have taken the lead in the 11th minute when Maharashtra defender Pramod Pandey brought down Anurag PC just outside the 18-yard box, but   S curled his freekick inches over the crossbar.
 
 Kerala were awarded a spotkick when Promod brought down Afdal VK inside the box and captain Rahul Raj sent rival goalkeeper Aditya Mishra the wrong way to hand his team the lead.
 
 There was no let up in tempo by the Kerala players and they doubled their lead with a peach of a goal by Jithin. Anurag on the left found Rahul KP on the right with a long ball. The latter essayed it to Jithin, who made a superb solo run down the right flank before cutting in and slotting the ball past a diving Mishra. After the change of ends, Kerala coach Satheevan Balan brought in winger Sreraag G in place of defender Justin George. And it worked wonders for the side as the super-sub created the third goal.
 
 Sreraag dispossessed Pandey before sending a cross from the right to Rahul KP, who managed to hold off challenges from a couple of rival defenders before poking the ball home from close range to shut the door on Maharashtra.
 
 “I am happy with the performance. We made the best use of the chances in first half and it paid off. Now I am looking forward to the match against Bengal, which is going to be a good one,” said Balan, whose side has netted 14 goals in three matches.
 
