There was excitement, jubilation and tears of joy on Wednesday night, as team '
 ' hosted a party to celebrate the success of the film, which has been produced by   and Dharma Productions. This story of an unusual spy – starring Alia Bhatt and Vicky Kaushal — that released on May 11, collected Rs 7.53 crore on Day 1 and has amassed Rs 51.24 crore in the domestic market (figures till May 16). With rave reviews and positive word-of-mouth publicity, the film has remained strong on weekdays, too. 

 
  
 
 The movie’s key cast — Shishir Sharma, Jaideep Ahlawat, Soni Razdan, Rajit Kapur and Arif Zakaria — walked in one by one, amidst applause. While Alia was extended a warm welcome by her colleagues and the media, birthday boy Vicky was the last of the cast members to walk in. 
 
 Producer Karan Johar, who also doubled up as an ad hoc anchor, took charge of the proceedings. Priti Shahani, CEO of Junglee Pictures, could barely contain her emotions, as she talked about her eight-year-old journey with her friend and director Meghna ‘Boski’ Gulzar. She reminisced how Raazi’s journey began two years ago over casual discussions regarding a book, shortly after Meghna’s 'Talvar' had released. Apoorva Mehta, CEO of Dharma Productions, said, “This is our first collaboration with Junglee Pictures and we are truly thankful to Preeti for coming to us with this film and with Meghna Gulzar. We are very proud of this gem.” 
 
 On her part, Meghna was visibly overwhelmed with the love and appreciation the film received. She said, “Very few filmmakers are blessed to find producers who are large-hearted and show unflinching support. And then, the cast and the eventual reception to 'Raazi' make it feel like I am living a dream; I don’t want to wake up from it. This has been my happiest experience of making a film.”
 
 
  
 
 Composers Shankar and Loy of the Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy trio and lyricist Gulzar were also present on the occasion. Gulzar saab said, “Bada lamba safar tay karke aaya hoon yahan tak. It’s so fulfilling to be in the audience of your daughter. Bahut kam mauka milta hai maa baap ko aisa... Dekh kar ek tasalli milti hai. Yehi nahi, inke saath jo jude hain, I feel this is the generation that has brought cinema this dignity. Yahan pe jee chahta hai inka haath pakad loon, and this time follow them instead of leading them.” His words left his filmmaker-daughter teary-eyed. 
 
  
  
 
 On the other hand, Soni Razdan was beaming with pride, watching her daughter being applauded for her performance. The senior actress, who played Alia’s mother Teji in the film, said, “I am very proud of Alia and what she has done.” Karan and Soni had a funny exchange, when KJo said, “Both of us look like we are the parents. I am representing Bhatt saab (Mahesh Bhatt) here. We feel like mommy and daddy... two proud parents of our child, who is on stage, ready to win her elocution competition.” 
 
 When asked what she was feeling, Alia said, “No amount of words can express how validated I feel for choosing this film. It’s all thanks to the team and the director. Every challenge to put out something like this is worth it. If I give in to the pressure of people’s expectations, I might make decisions for the wrong reasons. I want to pursue what my heart says and better my work with every passing film.” 
 
 Vicky, who had a dual celebration — his birthday and the success of the film — was glowing with pride for the positive reviews for his turn as a Pakistani army official. He said, “To be honest, we weren’t expecting this reaction, it was a surprise for us. We lose objectivity because we are so close to our material, but when you see other people sharing the sentiment, you feel happy. Box office numbers show your film has reached a wide audience, and so have you. Zindagi lambi nahi badi honi chahiye and role bhi lamba nahi bada hona chahiye. It was a stunning story and a naïve character with a great arc. So, I am very happy with the way it has all shaped up.”
 
 
