KOLKATA: Suravi  , a 39-year-old Rajarhat homemaker who had driven out to Salt Lake’s Central Park at the crack of dawn to attend Happy Streets on January 7, will be spared the drive this Sunday. After sessions at Park Street, Southern Avenue and Salt Lake, Happy Streets — the Times of India initiative in association with   — is finally coming to New Town.

 
 This will be the first time the event will be held in New Town. It isn’t without reason that this has created a buzz among New Town residents.
 
 “I had gone to the Happy Streets in Salt Lake and it was a wonderful experience. I cannot wait to be at Happy Streets once again. And this time, it will be closer to us. I will go with my children again,” Mukherjee said.
 
 
  
 
 Other residents of the township feel the same way.
 
 “I missed the previous Happy Streets events, but will definitely go this time since it will be held so close to my home. I plan to bring my fouryear-old daughter to experience this one-of-a-kind event,” said Suman Saha, a resident of New Town Action Area I.
 
 “I am excited that Happy Streets is coming near home. We had been to Salt Lake and once to Park Street. It is really an exhilarating experience. I plan to go there with my friends,” said Ankita Jaiswal, a college-goer.
 
 The New Town leg of Happy Streets will be conducted on the service lane in front of City Centre II and on the lane beside the mall near Chinar Park crossing.
 
 Like the previous ones, the New Town leg of Happy Streets will have the regular activity zones like football, cricket, basketball and badminton, along with yoga sessions organised by Mystic Yoga, a recreational and healing activity organised by the Healing Drum Circle, a kid’s activity group held by Sticky Bits, a tug of war zone by TAFI. There will also be skating activity for children organised by Fun on Wheels and a karate zone set up by JKF Goju-kai   Karate-Do India.
 
 On the main stage, there will be an instrumental performance by   and a zumba performance by Twist & Turns.
 
