HUBBALLI: While large and medium scale industries minister   urged the Centre to recognize  , people of   have been demanding that the state government recognize   or   as the state’s second capital. 

 Tweeple from the region have taken to the social media platform to air their views. Some of them suggested that Belagavi can be Karnataka’s second capital and Hubballi its second IT capital. 
 
 Siddharth Vaikunthe tweeted to Deshpande, “Sir   urgently needs second IT capital. Please shift IT offices to Hubli-Dharwad, Shimoga, Mangalore, Belgaum.” “Sir Karnataka urgently needs second capital. Please consider Hubli or Belgaum. Anyways Belgaum Vidhan Soudha building is vacant. (sic)”
 
 Shreenidhi Hungund also tweeted: “Hubli-Dharwad, Belgaum, Davangere, Gulbarga, Raichur options are there sir.” Raghav Giri, another user, tweeted, “Karnataka needs a second capital too & such a large part of neglected North Karnataka can't be managed from Bangalore, Hubli or Belgaum !” (sic)
 
 Belagavi District Kannada Organisations Action Committee president Ashok Chandaragi said that the border dispute between Karnataka and Maharashtra will be resolved if Belagavi is made the second capital.
 
 “It will also solve administrative problems. If not, what is the use of the Suvarna Soudha in the city? Hubballi should be considered as the second IT capital,” he said.
 
 In his letter to Prime Minister  , Deshpande stressed on the need to recognize Bengaluru as the second capital city of the nation. Deshpande justified his demand in series of tweets. He said, “India needs a 2nd capital very urgently and Bengaluru is best place to fulfill that role. A country the size and scale of India cannot be managed from one location.” 
 
 He also replied to the critics of his demand by saying, “For those who commented that it’s an election gimmick...please understand elections are part of the democratic system. It is better if we see the things beyond this for overall development of the country as well as its structural reforms. (sic)”
 
 
