NEW DELHI: In the throes of an internal political crisis, Maldives has refused an Indian invitation to participate in a biennial multilateral naval exercise in the Indian Ocean, beginning on March 6. 

  "We have invited Maldives, but they declined it. They did not give any reasons but I think it is due to the current situation there," Indian Navy Chief Adm Sunil Lanba told journalists on the sidelines of an Indo-Pacific Maritime Dialogue jointly organized by the Indian Navy and National Maritime Foundation. 
 
 Questioned on the issue, Maldives ambassador Ahmed Mohamed said: "I would like to clarify that Maldives is unable to participate in the naval exercise during this time due to current circumstances of a state of emergency being in effect for those under investigation for serious crimes. During such a time, security personnel are expected to be at a heightened stance of readiness." 
 
 "When situations warrant that officers be at their post, back at home, we have held back on deploying them to participate in exercises and training programmes held overseas, and as such, not being able to participate in the naval exercise at this time is not extraordinary," he added.
 
 However, he asserted that Maldives and India enjoy a "long history of excellent defence and military cooperation and it is a tradition that we are confident that will endure and continue indefinitely".
 
 Ties between India and Maldives nosedived after Maldivian President   declared emergency on February 5 after the Supreme Court ordered release of opposition leaders from prison. 
 
 The exercise-MILAN - is taking place in the backdrop of China's growing military posturing in the Indo-Pacific region and officials indicated that the issue is likely to figure during deliberations at the event. The exercise is a congregation of littoral navies conducted by the Indian Navy under the aegis of the Andaman and Nicobar Command. The aim of the initiative is to have an effective forum to discuss common concerns in the   and forge deeper cooperation among friendly navies.
 
 Asked about the presence of Chinese ships in the Indo-Pacific region, an official said, "The deployment of ships by China's Navy has been since 2008. At any point of time, there are 6-8 ships in the region. We monitor them and know what is happening."
 
 Admiral Lanba added, "There is no cause for concern, it is standard deployment in the Indian Ocean. As per what we have monitored, there is no change in it in the past few years. We are well aware of what is happening."
 
 
