CHANDIGARH: The   has asked the   government to issue show-cause notices to officials allegedly responsible for releasing excess amount of around Rs 100 crore to landowners in lieu of acquisition of land in   district, so that they can defend themselves before the HC or else an adverse order will be passed against them. 

 A division bench comprising Justices Surya Kant and Shekher Dhawan passed these orders after the state's urban estate department provided a list of all officials who held one or the other assignment during the period when compensation amount of crores of rupees was illegally disbursed. "Let the state government issue show-cause notice to all these officers/officials, informing them about pendency of these proceedings with liberty to join and assist this court before an order of proportionate recovery is passed against them," says the order released on Wednesday. The HC has also directed the state vigilance bureau "to file a status report through head of special investigation team (SIT) on the issue, for which no further opportunity will be granted".
 
  It also reminded the  , director (urban estate) and chief administrator, Huda, to provide full cooperation to the vigilance bureau in the ongoing investigation. On the previous date of hearing on January 10, SIT head Samiti Chaudhary of the state vigilance bureau had told the court that besides the excess payment of compensation to some land owners, a substantial amount had also been paid to private individuals for shamlat land, though the compensation for such land ought to have been released to the gram panchayat. 
 
 The matter would now come up for further hearing on April 2. The issue pertains to an ongoing petition related to payment of excess amount of compensation to the tune of about Rs 100 crore for acquired land by Huda officials in Panchkula district.
 
 On January 10, the Haryana government had submitted before the court that the actual amount found to have been paid in excess was around Rs 76 crore, of which Rs 27 crore had since been recovered/deposited by the land owners. 
 
 With regard to the remaining amount, after taking instructions from the officers present in court, the state counsel had undertaken taking some effective steps, including treating the recovered amount as arrears of land revenue and then proceeding against the defaulters.
 
 
