NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: Deepak Kochhar, promoter of NuPower and husband of ICICI Bank MD & CEO  , denied media reports quoting him as saying that inviting Videocon chairman   to join NuPower's board was a mistake. 

 
 He also said Chanda Kochhar learned of Dhoot's entry only after the Videocon promoter quit the board within 22 days of joining. "I have never said that inviting Mr Dhoot as a director was my biggest mistake and I have issued a clarificatory statement," said Deepak Kochhar. "There was no joint venture (with Dhoot). He was invited as a director because of his experience with Solar Energy," he said. 
 
 He added that the only money brought in by Dhoot was a Rs 2.5 lakh investment, which he exited within 22 days. When asked about investment through companies like Supreme Energy, he said he didn't want to comment as the matter was under investigation.
 
 ICICI Bank, meanwhile, continued to maintain that there was no conflict of interest between Deepak Kochhar's business ventures and his wife's roles in clearing loans. The bank said no loans were disbursed to Videocon during the 22 days Dhoot was on the board. Also, Chanda Kocchar was one of many members of the credit committee and not the CEO of the bank at that time.
 
 Meanwhile, the   on Friday questioned Chanda Kochhar's brother-in-law Rajiv Kochhar for the second consecutive day, with most of the questioning focusing on allegations that his company had helped restructure the loan given to the Videocon group.
 
 Sources said Rajiv Kochhar was questioned for almost nine hours on Friday. The founder of Avista Advisory was asked about the help he allegedly extended to Videocon in relation to a loan from ICICI Bank (Rs 3,250 crore) which was part of a Rs 40,000-crore credit given by a consortium of 20 banks to the group.
 
 Rajiv Kochhar was detained at the Mumbai airport on Thursday, as he was trying to board a flight for a South East Asian country.
 
 He had denied the allegations, saying he doesn't do business with his brother and there was no question of favouritism and conflict. "As a family rule we don't work with each other," Rajiv Kochhar had claimed in an interview.
 
 ICICI Bank has also denied that it ever engaged Avista for any services. "We would like to categorically state that ICICI Bank has never engaged   for any services at all. Hence, the allegation of conflict of interest, as reported by a section of media, is totally baseless and mala fide in intent," the bank said in a statement.
 
 TOI reported last week that CBI had registered a preliminary enquiry (PE) into the alleged nexus between Deepak Kochhar and Venugopal Dhoot.
 
 The agency is trying to ascertain the veracity of allegations that Dhoot provided crores of rupees to a firm promoted by Deepak Kochhar and two relatives six months after Videocon group got Rs 3,250 crore as a loan from ICICI Bank in 2012. 
 
 
