Last year, a Bandra resident travelling by   was robbed of cash and jewellery of a total value of Rs 1.1 lakh at night. Now,   passengers won’t have to spend sleepless night worrying about theft as lamps in the aisle would be lit through the night. And soon, cameras will also keep an eye on who is entering and exiting the coaches. 

 The railways has refurbished the premium train for safer and more  .
 
 "This (keeping night lamps on) is in view of few past incidents of thefts wherein the thief managed to escape with luggage and valuables after switching off the night lights,” said Western Railway divisional railway manager Mukul Jain, while launching the refurbished Rajdhani Express under 'Project Swarn' at   station on Thursday. 
 
 Jain said that in both second and third AC coaches, the night visibility will ensure nobody walks away with someone else's luggage. The WR is also in the process of installing CCTV cameras—four in each coach of Rajdhani for passenger safety. 
 
 Officials said that work on installing cameras in five coaches is in progress and the work may be completed soon. The cameras will be imported and with high resolution for good clarity, said an official. Each coach will have four CCTV cameras taking pictures of the aisle and toilet areas.
 
 Jain said each Rajdhani train has been refurbished at a cost of Rs 50 lakh to woo passengers, specially in the wake of competition from low-cost airfares. "Rajdhani is a premier train and carries lot of prestige—very convenient for people who travel to Delhi. Under Project Swarn, we want to improve passenger experience and provide additional amenities,” he said. 
 
 To ensure safety, there will be no gas cylinders as cooking in pantry will be on electric stoves. There will be anti-graffiti coated designer vinyl wrap in the passage, entrance and toilets to ensure nobody can write on or deface the walls. There will be retroreflective destination boards and coach number plates will ease out passenger woes of locating coaches in the dark. "Also berth/seat numbers will be prominently visible inside the coach,'' he said. 
 
 "Beautiful paintings and photographs of heritage monuments of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi have been put in coaches, there are LED lit photo frames and complete LED lighting for energy efficiency,” he said. The first-ever foot-operated dustbins, branded big pillows and branded towels are being given to passengers in First AC and will soon be extended to other coaches in near future, officials said. 
 
 
