Ludhiana: A 33-year-old woman was found dead and her house ransacked on the 33 Feet Road in Jamalpur on Tuesday afternoon.

 Though the family of Nidhi Arora said robbers struck at the house and strangled her before making off with cash and valuables, police doubt the claim.
 
 Varinder Arora, her husband who is an accountant, said in his police complaint, “Like every day, I dropped my daughter to school and left for office around 11am. Nidhi was alone at home. She used to pick up our daughter, a nursery student, at noon. When she did not reach the school till 12.30pm, the authorities called me up. I phoned Nidhi many a time, but all my calls remained unanswered. Worried, I called up my mother, Neelam Arora, who lives nearby, and asked her to check on Nidhi.”
 
 After picking up her granddaughter from school, Neelam went to Varinder’s house. “When I reached here, I found the main door open. I called out Nidhi’s name. On not receiving a response, I went to her room and found her lying lifeless on bed. Her room was ransacked,” Neelam told the police. “A pillow was lying near her. Robbers must have smothered her with it,” she added.
 
 On hearing her cries, neighbours rushed to the house and informed the police. Nidhi was taken to a nearby hospital, where she was declared dead. 
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (IV) Rajveer Singh Boparai said, “There were no injury marks on the body. The post-mortem report will make the picture clear. We doubt it is a case of loot. ” The police are scanning the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area.
 
 UNSAFE CITY
 
 April 11: Two men on a bike trick a hosiery trader and loot him of Rs 9 lakh on RK Road in broad daylight. 
 
 April 6: Armed robbers loot a man and his son of Rs 7 lakh outside their house in Model Town. 
 
 March 20: Two goons open fire at a cash collection company employee and rob him of Rs 18 lakh on Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road. 
 
 February 1: Burglars target a jewellery store on Bhamiya Road and flee with Rs 25,000 and gold and silver worth Rs 20 lakh. 
 
 February 2: Four armed goons barge into the office of an oil trader and rob him of Rs 15 lakh in Sabun Bazaar. 
 
 February 16: Four masked men shoot at a petrol pump employee and snatch his bag containing Rs 50,000 on Ludhiana-Malerkotla Road, near Alamgir. 
 
 January 28: Three sword-wielding men rob a hosiery trader of Rs 35,000 near Kailash Chowk. 
 
 
