LUCKNOW: Two days after chief minister   pulled up senior officials on stage before public at the night 'chaupal' in a Pratapgarh vilage on Monday, deputy chief minister   warned officials to fall in line and blamed them for tarnishing the government's image. 

 Maurya held a review meeting with senior district administration officials at the   in   on Wednesday after party workers complained about officials.
 
 He issued a stern warning to those working against the government's spirit to serve people and sullying its image. Maurya had received several complaints against officers during a review meeting with party workers earlier, specifically against a basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) who had refused some work on MLA's recommendation. 
 
 He told officials that they would be personally held responsible if the government's development schemes and projects were not visible on ground.
 
 A party worker who attended the meeting said that the BSA had refused some work on MLA's recommendation and said, "I carry MLAs like him in my pocket". 
 
 "The party workers came up with several complaints, including this one. Other senior party members corroborated the complaint. The deputy CM then held a meeting with the administration subsequently where all these matters were discussed," he said.
 
 The second meeting was attended by the district magistrate, chief development officer, officials from Jal Nigam and education department among others. 
 
 "The deputy CM discussed ongoing works, including progress in the ongoing Gram   in which BJP, through the government, is trying to reach out to the electorate and ensure that the benefits of various public welfare schemes of the Central and state governments reach to the people in villages. He then took up the complaints made by party workers and told officials in no uncertain terms that they were responsible for ensuring that the BJP government's flagship programmes were implemented on ground and that they would be personally answerable if this didn't happen," said sources.
 
 
 
