HYDERABAD: The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) is going the whole hog by projecting party president and chief minister   as an ‘achiever’ and ‘karanajanmudu’ (one who’s born for a purpose). The huge hoardings, party paraphernalia, festoons, drapings and decorations indicate just that.

 The Pragathi Pranganam at   in Medchal, where the 17th plenary of TRS will be held on Friday, is a swathe of pink and much more. There is a beaming   in every hoarding and publicity material which highlights the people-friendly schemes launched by his government. “Peda prajala kanula ninduga–vachchindi gulabi panduga” (Pink festival has arrived to bring cheer among poor people) is how the plenary is being talked about.
 
 With an eye on the elections next year, all the hoardings and publicity material, which have come up at important junctions, arterial roads and prominent places in the city, spare no efforts to talk about KCR as the ‘man of the masses.’ The CM with an elaborate splash of pink and word play steals the show all the way.
 
 “Prathi intiti samkshemam–prathi mukhamlo santosham’ (welfare for every family – joy on every face) reads one hoarding talking about the chief minister’s   scheme through which farmers will be provided investment support of ₹8,000 per acre per year for any number of acres of land that they hold for cultivation.
 
 Along with CM’s happy face, there are also happy faces of farmers on the hoardings. There are several other hoardings which talk eloquently about schemes like TS-iPass, Mission Kakatiya and irrigation projects which aim to provide water for one crore acres of land across the state .
 
 Peddapalli MP  , who is in charge of media affairs at the plenary, said all arrangements are in place. Suman said the plenary is very important as KCR is set to talk about his mega plans for the country and chart the course of action. It may be recalled KCR has already announced his foray into national politics by talking to key leaders of JD(S) and Trinamool Congress.
 
 
