KANPUR: The   have started faking their identity at   (ICTC) fearing that if  , either their employers would fire them or they would face ostracism by the villagers.

 The issue came to fore on Friday when nearly seven locals from Bangarmau reached ICTC Hasanganj and got themselves enrolled for the blood test.
 
 “It was when all the seven persons were tested negative, they disclosed to the ICTC staff that they had faked their identity owing to social stigma,” said a staff of ICTC.
 
 “They said that not only they fear social boycott from the locals but even by their employer, who might ask them to look for work elsewhere,” he added.
 
 To overcome the issue, the health department in the three villages will soon start an awareness drive to identify HIV positive persons in collaboration with UPSACS ( ), said a senior health official.
 
 “We have come to know about people faking their identity through ICTC staff. Though it is a bit disturbing, but we will try to convince them. We will create awareness through street plays, graphics and pictures, which are easy to understand as most of them are uneducated,” said nodal officer AK Rawat.
 
 “Usually, the field workers mingle with the people and seek their help to get friendly with the suspected HIV positive cases. Once they are identified, they are told how HIV spreads, and that it is not something to hide or be ashamed of. We will guide them about the ways to keep them and their near and dear ones fit,” said the nodal officer.
 
 Elaborating about functioning of the ICTC, a health officer told TOI that the staff members fill up a form with personal details such as home address so that the person can be tracked for treatment in case he/she does not turn up after testing HIV positive.
 
 Thereafter, doctors ask them about any illness they may have, and give them medicines.
 
 Later, paramedical staff collects the person’s blood samples, the results of which come out in halfan hour.
 
 He further said each of the six men is taken to the counsellor who advises them on the use of condoms and tells them to visit an ART clinic in case they test positive.
 
 A CD4 count is then taken at the ART Centre, and if it is less than 500, the patient is treated as per the standard norms, he added.
 
 
