The news of the formation of a new women’s organisation in Malayalam cinema had led many to think that it is a rival to the Women in Cinema Collective (WCC). However, the members of the newly formed organisation stress that they and the WCC have the same aim — gender justice in cinema.

 Plans had been on to form the new association for the past two years, and this is just a union of the women members of the   ( ), says  , writer and core committee member. “Say women in cinema and people immediately assume them to be solely actresses. But there are many more women in all fields — dance, music, costume, hairstyling, camera, production, direction and more. All of them face issues in the workplace like a lack of adequate toilets and changing rooms. Our aim is to give them a platform and find solutions for these grievances,” she says.
 
 Although FEFKA has a lot of women members, when it comes to the individual meetings of each section, there will be very few, says Jayageetha, who is part of the Writer’s Union of FEFKA. “We felt that all the women should come together to address the issues. An organisation becomes complete and of a progressive nature only when there’s proper representation of women.”
 
 From now on, every FEFKA general council meeting will have two core committee members of the women’s wing. A complaint from any of the women members will be evaluated by the women’s wing first before FEFKA takes a decision about it. “In terms of decision making, it’s a big leap for women,” says Jayageetha.
 
 Dubbing artiste Bhagyalakshmi will be heading the new organisation which will have eight core committee members. On its first meeting 
 , the participation of women was very high, and many who couldn’t attend expressed their wish to take a membership, says Jayageetha.
 
 “General Secretary   and president Sibi Malayil handed over the stage to us after the introduction and it became an open discussion, where every single member spoke about their problems in the workplace. At the end of the meeting, a set of grievances was submitted to the General Secretary, and he has assured us that the issues will be addressed. Everyone is hopeful now,” she says.
 The association has also formed a WhatsApp group where the members can talk about their issues even if they are unable to be physically present in the meetings.
 
 Meanwhile, Deedi Damodaran, a WCC representative, lauded the formation of the new association. “This was one of the demands we put forward to the Chief Minister during the formation of WCC — that every organisation in Malayalam cinema should have adequate representation of women. We are glad that our demands are being met, one by one. Earlier, it was like none of these organisations even acknowledged the need for a forum to address women’s issues as they were never discussed in the meetings. FEFKA’s initiative is a positive one, and hopefully other organisations such as AMMA and producers’ association will follow suit.”
 
 Members of the WCC, some of whom are also FEFKA members, were also invited for the meeting of the new organisation and so they were always in the loop, says Deedi.
 
 
 
 
 
