JAIPUR: The Jaipur   Rail Corporation ( ) which is struggling to meet operational losses every year will receive an increased share from Rajasthan Transport Infrastructure Development Fund (RTIDF). 

 The JMRC will now receive fixed 15% share from RTIDF which is expected to be utilised for carrying out other development works. At present, the corporation only receives certain amount of operational losses. This amount is neither sufficient to meet operational losses , nor to carry out development work. 
 
 A senior JMRC official said, in financial year 2016- 2017, JMRC operation loss was approximately Rs 36 crore, while it received Rs 25 crore under RTIDF fund. 
 
 The JMRC struggled to bridge the gap of deficit amount. “As 15% share from RTIDF is fixed, we are hoping to receive Rs 45 crore this year. Many development works can be carried out for metro using this amount,” said a senior JMRC official. 
 
 This would provide sigh of relief to JMRC as continuous ridership drop in Jaipur Metro has become a major cause of concern which is incurring huge financial losses. The average ridership has dipped to 20949 passengers daily in last 34 months. As the state government has failed to initiate the project’s 23km phase-II, proposed between   and  , the ridership is expected to dip further.
 
 The agency earns approximatively Rs 16 crore in financial year 2016- 2017 after spending about Rs 36 crore . Unlike other state  , the maximum share of operational losses of Jaipur Metro are being borne by residents since the state government is raising money for Rajasthan Transport Investment Development Fund (RTIDF) by levying cess on several services. 
 
 An official source informed, “Twenty five percent of the total revenue accrued to RTIDF is from green Tax/surcharge on taxes on registration of vehicles. More 25% of the total revenue accrued to RTIDF is from surcharge/ stamp duty on registration/ transfer of land, buildings etc.” 
 
 Sources at the JMRC said, the extension of Metro corridor is essential for increasing the ridership. Over past three years, the JMRC has extended the corridor by an approximate 3km. “Metros are operational in 12 cities across the country. The Jaipur Metro route remains the shortest as the phase 2 work has not been taken up. Though, at present, the Lucknow Metro is the shortest at 8km, they have started extension work on the 15km corridor. After completion, it will be a 23km Metro. Similarly, the Chennai Metro, which started operations on 10km initially, has extended it up to 28km.”
 
 
