Coimbatore: A day after the Directorate of   (DVAC) sleuths arrested the   of  ,  , for accepting a   of   from an assistant professor, syndicate members and members of teachers’ association said they suspect irregularities in other appointments made by him.

 A source from the Association of University Teachers said the association will demand that a body be constituted under a sitting high court judge to conduct and independent probe into all appointments made by Ganapathi.
 
 A senior syndicate member said there have been several violations in appointments under SC/ST quota and backlog vacancies in the university. “Also of the 80 odd recruitments made by him, almost 90% are irregular,” he said. A special syndicate would be convened within a week to discuss the further course of action, he said.
 
 In the past, several controversies had broken out around the appointments made by Ganapathi. In November 2016, around 80 appointments made by him were under a spot, with education department officials saying he went ahead with the appointments in spite of being asked by the department to put them on hold.
 
 In December 2016, the appointment of S Saravana Kumar, as the director of the school of Management Studies, raised several questions. As per UGC rules, only those who had been a professor for five years could be appointed as a director. But, Saravana Kumar was an associate professor. The university, however, said it had taken into account his previous experience in appointing him. 
 
 Last year, N Srilakshmi Prabha, who had sought the post of an assistant professor in the Biotechnology department in 2016, claimed that though she was eligible for the post, the university appointed another person to the post. The appointment was irregular, she had claimed. Based on Prabha’s complaint last November, Vadavalli police registered an FIR against Ganapathi under the Schedule Castes and the Schedule Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act 2015.
 
 “There have been several violations in the appointments such as roster violations, quota violations and cross-major appointments. As they have come out in the open, all appointments made by Ganapathi have to be quashed,” Prabha told TOI.
 
 
