PUNE: The death toll in Saturday night’s car-truck collision at Khandala on the old   highway rose to six with one more victim succumbing to her injuries on Sunday.

 “All the victims were employees of Rhythm resort at   hill station,” inspector (Lonavla city police) Chandrakant Jadhav told TOI. 
 
 They were headed for a rented room in a bungalow at Khandala, 4km from the resort, when their car crashed into the truck in front of the Police Training School, the police said. 
 
  (18) of Meera Road, Thane, succumbed her to injuries at a private hospital in Lonavla.
 
 The car driver and four women were killed on the spot. Police identified them as Zoheb Gulam Mohammed Memon (39) of Khatija building, Malagiri road, (Thane-West), Pooja Kishor Gaikwad (23) of Bhor, Sabita Sukhbahadur Roy (26) of Semobag (West Sikkim), Pistala Taslimong Sangatam (27) of Kiponegya (Nagaland) and Sobelet Moniraj Roy (27) of West Sikkim. Memon was driving the car.
 
  
  
 The condition of Monica Lal, the sole survivor undergoing treatment in the intensive care unit at a hospital near Somatne Phata, was critical. “Monica sustained serious head injuries and is unconscious. There is swelling in her head with a lot of internal bleeding. She is on ventilator and doctors have kept her under observation for the next 48 hours,” a medical officer at the hospital said. Monica is from Golibar Maidan in Lonavla. 
 
 Memon was the front desk manager at the resort. Reema and Monica also worked at the front desk. The remaining four women were part of the staffers at the spa. Zoheb had offered to drop the six women to the bungalow in his car around 9pm after the resort’s night-drop vehicle got delayed, the police said. The police said the resort administration had provided an accommodation facility to its women staffers at Khandala.
 
 The police said the car veered to the right side of the road at a sharp turn and collided with the truck. An official at the Lonavla primary health centre said all the victims died of head injuries. 
 
 Resort officials approached by TOI refused to speak on the accident. They said the owner of the facility and the administrative staffers were based in Mumbai.
 
 A police officer said Memon was experienced in managing hotels and resorts. All the women were graduates and hired by the resort through a Mumbai-based placement agency.
 
 
