BENGALURU: The shaking bridge of  , which has kept residents of the area and commuters under fear, is turning out to be yet another case of official apathy. 

  TOI has learnt that there was a similar complaint about shaking on the bridge way back in December 2014. At that time, a private company, specializing in conformity assessment services of public infrastructure, ha d conducted a series of tests on the 2011-built bridge, and called for appropriate "restoration measures" immediately to render the distressed sections normal and serviceable. Though the company also drew up a detailed report with a few recommendations, it is unclear whether they were carried out by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which is the custodian of the bridge. 
 
 According to an engineer with BBMP Mahadevapura zone, experts opined the bridge is stable, and that vehicles weighing up to 10 tonnes can use it without any problem. "We have asked a private firm to test the bridge, and they are the same people who had inspected the bridge in 2014," the official said. 
 
 "The bridge seems to be in a decent condition, and just needs some maintenance, such as asphalting, cleaning of extension joints and replacing of the bearings. I was not in this position in 2014-15, so I don't know if the recommendations were carried out. However, we will definitely carry them out this time," he added. 
 
 On Wednesday, two days after residents claimed that Varthur bridge shakes whenever a large number of vehicles cross it, BBMP engineers, accompanied by experts from a private firm, inspected the structure. 
 
 "The officials, who have been very proactive, say that a formal test will be conducted by technical consultants in two days. Once the issue is highlighted, they say they will take 15 days to fix it. The aim is to resolve the issue before the monsoon hits, as the water level might rise, making it difficult for work to be carried out. Additionally, most schools will open by then, and children who take school buses might be affected," said  , managing trustee and CEO,  , and a   resident. 
 
 While Mahadevapura MLA  , who inspected the spot on Tuesday, said that heavy traffic vehicles would not be allowed to use it until renovation, Palike engineers said it wasn't an issue and vehicles are plying on the bridge. 
 
 
