NEW DELHI: High jumper Tejaswin Shankar’s twitter status reads ‘The Beast Never Stops’. The current national record holder - with an impressive effort of 2.29m - also sports a flashy tattoo on both his biceps with the same strapline. However, it seems the “beast” in the 19-year-old has run out of steam for now, at least for the forthcoming Jakarta-Palembang Asian Games.

 
 
 
 In a blow to India’s medal hopes at the Asiad, Tejaswin has pulled out of the August 18-September 2 multisport event, citing a persistent back/neck injury and his academic commitments at the Kansas state university in Manhattan, where he is studying business administration on a four-year scholarship.
 
 
 
 Had Tejaswin been competing in full flow, India would have stood a great chance to win a medal at the Asiad - the bronze at the Incheon Asiad was decided at 2.25m – and the US-based athlete recently jumped 2.29m in Lubbock in April.
 
 In his communication to the AFI, Tejaswin explained that due to his injury and semester exams, he would be skipping the Interstate meet in Guwahati from June 26-29, which will act as an Asiad qualifier.
 
 Speaking to TOI from Manhattan, Tejaswin informed that he has taken the decision keeping the longevity of his playing career in mind - he is targeting the next year’s World Championships. 
 
 “I have already competed with this neck/back injury in over 15 competitions this year. Because of my technique, I land on my neck with more impact as compared to landing on my upper back. So, every time I jump, my neck/upper back goes into spasm. If I continue to jump like this, it can get to a point where it will be a threat in the future,” said Tejaswin, who finished sixth in Gold Coast.
 
 “Coming to academics, my sports scholarship in the   is directly in relation to how I perform academically. My grade has slipped a little in the second semester because of the Federation Cup and the CWG. By not competing in the Guwahati meet, I will take extra classes this summer to increase my percentage,” he added.
 
