CHANDIGARH: Cracks in the   were again highlighted on Tuesday when local bodies minister   skipped the Amritsar mayoral poll, sending out a strong message against his own government, led by chief minister  .

 Sidhu loyalists claimed the Cabinet minister, who is an MLA from   constituency, was miffed at not being involved in the exercise to choose the new mayor in Amritsar. 
 
 However, some party leaders claimed Sidhu was angry over the decision, attributed to the   high command, not to go by his recommendations and to pay attention to the cadre feedback instead.
 
 Sidhu's boycott sent the Punjab Congress leadership in a tizzy: his own colleagues were anxiously waiting to see whether the issue would flare up. 
 
 On the face of it, however, party leaders said Sidhu had no differences with the party or Amarinder.
 
 
 
 
 Some of them were critical of Sidhu, but not openly. “He is behaving like an opposition party leader. If he had any grievance, he could have discussed it in a party forum,” said a senior party leader.
 
 Amarinder’s confidants are closely watching Sidhu’s actions, but Punjab ministers are not sure if an attempt has been made to reach out to the maverick minister.
 
 So far, Amarinder has not reacted to the controversy and his senior ministers have maintained that Sidhu is not upset with the party.
 
 Sources said Sidhu’s annoyance with the party leadership began after Amarinder met Punjab affairs incharge Asha Kumari and state Congress president Sunil Jakhar on January 17, a day before the CM met party president   in New Delhi. At the meeting, it was de- cided that observers ap- pointed for three municipal corporations, who included minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa for Amritsar, would take feedback from the councillors and local leaders and decide on the three mayors.
 
 During all this, Sidhu was apparently left out even though he represents Amritsar East constituency.
 
 At the same time, there was speculation that the Congress high command had shot down names of certain probable candidates for the three mayoral posts.
 
 Close on the heels of the former power and irrigation minister Rana Gurjit Singh’s resignation and with the high court setting aside the appointment of the CM’s former chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar, the Sidhu controversy has emerged as a new headache for the Congress top brass. AAP leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, meanwhile, expressed support for Sidhu. Khaira said Sidhu was feel- ing let down as the promise of making him the deputy CM was not fulfilled by the Congress. Moreover, Sidhu’s campaign to take on the cable and drug mafia in the state was scuttled by the Congress leadership, he claimed.
 
 
 
