MUMBAI: Is   suffering from stagnating quality of organisational leadership? It appears so, if findings from a study on the current state of leadership are anything to go by. Increased pressure to innovate and thrive in a changed environment has put the spotlight on leaders to skilfully navigate organisations into uncertain futures. But a study by   (DDI), The Conference Board and   found little improvement in the overall   quality in India over the last six years.

 
 The study, which surveyed 1,363 Indian leaders and 161 HR professionals across a diverse set of industries, has been shared exclusively with TOI. 
 
 The percentage of leaders who said overall quality of organisation’s leadership is high has declined from 55% in 2011 to 54% in 2014, and it remained at this level in 2017 as well. Additionally, the percentage of HR professionals who made the same observation has declined from 41% in 2014 to 38% in 2017.
 
  
  
 
 In India, companies spend an average $3,628 and 38 hours per high-potential leader, translating into an annual investment of $3.6 million and 4,750 person-days (1,000 high-potential leaders). 
 
 So why are the results not showing? DDI India MD Amogh Deshmukh said, “Organisations do not have enough people in the pool and, hence, there has been no significant improvement in succession management by corporates.”
 
 Deshmukh said organisations are too busy getting HR initiatives for high potentials off the ground and either have no bandwidth or resources to sustain this after the initiative is over, or they have little or no leadership support.
 
 With overall scores on quality of leadership not looking good,   chairman   said, “This is a cause for worry, especially in the current context of a VUCA (volatile, uncertain, complex, ambiguous) world.” Mariwala said Indian companies require high-quality leaders to meet tomorrow’s VUCA challenge.“Never in the history of mankind have we seen these kinds of disruptions. We need high-quality leaders to leverage technology, for instance. A far more intensive competitive environment requires better quality leadership. The economic growth will improve in the country and new kinds of businesses will be set up. The war for talent will intensify multiple times in the future. Organisations would need to proactively look at finding ways to attract and retain talent,” said Mariwala.Crafting a strong employee value proposition and improved work cultures could be a solution to attract and retain good talent, said Mariwala. “A lot needs to be done by organisations at a serious level. It’s the CEO’s responsibility to do all this. Increasingly, we are seeing coaching becoming more relevant at senior levels. It has now become the top management responsibility across organisations,” said Mariwala, who is also the founder of  .
 
 However, Deshmukh of DDI said many organisations have extensive focus on the 10% formal learning and 20% coaching, and not much done with reference to the 70% (on the job applicable). “Many organisations have special projects for high performers who are getting prepared for future roles. These so called ‘special projects/assignments’ are mission-critical to the organisations but have no bearing on the developmental needs of these leaders. That is why the essence of development gets lost,” he added.
 
 Commenting on the findings, Vijay Govindarajan, Coxe Distinguished Professor, Tuck School at  , said India suffers from a “leadership deficit”. Govindarajan said the country needs to develop a unique blend of leaders who have a social heart and a business brain. “India has three tiers of customers: Top of the economic pyramid, middle of the economic pyramid, and bottom of the economic pyramid. Only compassionate leaders can serve all three tiers. At the same time, leaders must master all the analytical tools to make sound, logical, and profitable decisions.”
 
 Given the seismic disruption in almost every industry, the report said keeping ahead of the leader quality and quantity supply chain will be a considerable challenge. Among the HR professionals, 40% believe their succession management system and processes to be of low or very low effectiveness.
 
 
