THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Despite   securing a thumping victory in Chengannur bypoll, the CPM state committee has appealed to party leaders and workers to keep 'an extra vigil against communal forces' pointing at BJP's 23 % vote share in the byelection. 

 
 "Instead of underestimating their rivals, the CPM and its allies,should broaden and strengthen their own base. The LDF has to attract all secular forces into its fold as the   no longer can be trusted in the fight against the RSS or the BJP," CPM state secretary Kodiyeri   told reporters after the three-day party state committee meeting here on Sunday.
 
 Though the LDF could successfully handle the unique political situation in Chengannur byelection by thwarting BJP's strategies, BJP and RSS have a significant base in Chengannur, which is evident in the 23 % vote share it secured, Balakrishnan said.
 
 So, the CPM state committee decision is to strengthen the party's relationship with various political parties outside but close to the LDF like the INL, CMP, JSS and Kerala Congress (Democratic) ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and help LDF win maximum seats like it did in 2004 (18 seats). However, the party has not discussed about having any political alliance with the KC(M), 'which is still with the UDF', Balakrishnan said.
 
 On the prospects of having RSP back into the LDF fold, the CPM state secretary said the front was ready to accept all who come back after rectifying their mistakes. 
 
  RS candidate to be announced on Friday: The CPM state committee also entrusted the party secretariat, which is meeting on Friday, to decide on the party nominee to the   in the biennial elections scheduled for June 21. "The CPM, unlike the Congress, always gives priority for new faces, including youngsters and women, while considering its candidates to the  ," the party state secretary said. The committee, however, did not discuss on any cabinet reshuffle, Balakrishnan said. "Currently, we do not have any issues regarding the performance of any of our ministers," he added.
 
