MANGALURU: Almost a month after notorious rowdy-sheeter and leader of infamous   U S Eliyas was murdered,   police have managed to arrest two people in this connection. However, the mastermind behind the murder, Dawood, a rowdy-sheeter, is still absconding.

 According to the investigating officer, all accused, soon after the murder, fled to Kerala and till they were arrested, were roaming across India, making it difficult for the police to trace them. The arrested are Mohammed Sameer alias Robert, 27, a resident of Ullal and Nameer Hamza, 34, from Manjeshwar Kasaragod. The arrested have criminal antecedents. Sameer had assaulted Sumra Imran of Target gang and damaged the house of Hamza, after assaulting those residing there. While Nameer Hamza was booked for attempt to murder in the Konaje police station and robbery under Surathkal police station and Mangaluru North police station, as well as a kidnapping case being lodged against him in the Ullal police station. Sameer also identified himself as Robert in one of the robbery cases.
 
 Police had formed three teams for investigating the case. A police officer said the reason for the murder was personal rivalry. Dawood, who formed the Target gang, wasn’t happy when Eliyas started getting more prominence in the gang. There was always a cold war between them, and they split a few years ago. Even after the split, they had maintained contact. However, the relationship turned sour after Eliyas made an attempt to murder Dawood, and assaulted a few of his men. Eliyas was cooling his heels for about three months in jail, and was murdered three days after being released from jail.
 
 “Dawood was waiting for Eliyas’s release, after which he hatched the murder. Soon after the murder, the accused escaped to Mumbai, Hyderabad, Chennai, Chittor and other places. They kept moving in order to elude the police. However, the police were successful in nabbing them near Manjeshwara, Kasaragod at the Karnataka border,” said a highly-placed source from the  
 
 
