NEW DELHI: A former employee of a businessman dealing with exports broke into his office in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar and fled with   worth Rs 2 crore. After stealing the cash, two of his associates kept evading cops in five   before one accused was caught near Nanded in Maharashtra and the other was nabbed from Hauz Khas.

 The mastermind, Daljeet, had even planned to flee to Bangkok and settle there with the stolen money. DCP (west) Vijay Kumar said that a team led by SHO Kirti Nagar Anil Sharma was formed to track them down after cops received a complaint from one Rakesh Godara, who told them that his former employee, Rattan, had fled with cash from his office after seeking refuge there for a day.
 
 “The suspect, Rattan, had approached Godara’s business partner, saying that he required refuge for a day and stayed at his office. Rattan had a few drinks with the other employees, making them unconscious on the day of the incident,” said DCP Kumar.
 
 Probe revealed that Rattan had unbolted the door for Daljeet and Jasbir, his associates, and helped them escape with the stolen cash. Godara had tried to search for Rattan with the help of his employees and approached the police after that.
 
 Cops also conducted raids at Sirsa, Chandigarh, Mohali and some places of Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra to look for the three men. One of the teams spotted Daljeet near Hauz Khas and caught him.
 
 During interrogation, he claimed that the heist was of Rs 50 lakh. Their original plan was to flee to Bangkok and only return once everything settled. However, after the cops had started tracking them down, they changed their plan and decided that one of them would surrender before the cops and go to jail for some petty offence while the other two would flee to Bangkok.
 
 A lookout notice was issued following which a team tracked Jasbir down to Nanded and arrested him. Cops said that Rattan is still on the   and efforts are being made to nab him. Cops recovered euros worth Rs 1.8 crore from them. 
 
 
