NAGPUR: The CCTVs installed under Smart City Solutions project have provided crucial clues about the spate of robberies that have exposed loopholes in the city police’s ground work. 

 On Saturday, a gang of around four masked goons, armed with knives, robbed five persons at different places within an hour before decamping with cash and mobile phones. The goons also injured four of the victims with sharp weapons.
 
 In the morning, a tattoo artist was robbed of his two-wheeler from Automotive Chowk. The two-wheeler was later recovered from Yashodhara Nagar where it had been left abandoned. 
 
 The gang did not seem to have spent even a minute at a couple of places after the robberies. The incidents have left behind a trail of questions on the city police’s crime hot-spot analysis on the basis of which the patrolling patterns had been formulated.
 
 CCTV footages have caught the robbers in action at three places. Though the footages at one of the spots is not clear, the other two have substantial clues for the cops. A senior official claimed that going by the footages, the robbers seem to be in the age group 18-25 years. 
 
 To support the theory about involvement of youngsters, officials also claimed that robbers snatched an amount as low as Rs400, indicating how desperate they were for money. 
 
 Sources from the crime branch also claimed that the gang may also be behind the murder of a cyclist near Suyog building on December 31 last year. The cyclist had not allowed the robbers to snatch cash from him and fled to the court premises where he collapsed.
 
 On Sunday, a few crime branch teams camped at   throughout the day after receiving a clue from their technical team. A gang from Kanhan was interrogated by both rural and city police for their possible involvement. Till late evening, it was not clear whether the same gang was behind the robberies. The stolen mobile phones are now the biggest clue for the cops. 
 
 
 
 The   police and crime branch are still groping in the dark to detect the theft of 100 tola gold and other valuables from the residence of   family at Khare town near   on December 11 last year.
 
 It is learnt, crime branch has deputed a team on the case for the last one-and-a-half month. A reliable source said that in absence of any tangible human intelligence, cops are now working on mostly technical clues to track the perpetrators.
 
 
