LUCKNOW: Soon after landing in Lucknow on Tuesday, chief minister   summoned top police and home department officers and directed them to adopt strictest possible measures to ensure that no communal incident takes place in the state and said he would not tolerate any laxity on the law and order front.

 Adityanath held two important meetings late evening- first to discuss preparations for a crackdown on copying menace in UP Secondary Board examinations and the second on law and order situation lasting till 9.15pm.
 
 The chief minister closeted with chief secretary  , principal secretary Home, Arvind Kumar and DGP Om   and reviewed the situation in the state. Adityanath issued strict orders that no communal incident should take place in the state and he would not tolerate any laxity on the law and order front.
 
 Anyone creating communal tension should be dealt with strictly, he told officers while reviewing the Kasganj incident which has tainted the record of his government.
 
 In a surprising development, the government did not take any disciplinary action against Bareilly DM Raghvendra Vikkram Singh over his controversial FB post and chose to underplay the issue even though deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had demanded strict action against him.
 
 The government spared Bareilly DM despite reshuffling 16 IAS officers, including DMs, tonight.
 
 “The government feels the issue be ignored to avoid any further controversy. A disciplinary action may be come later,” a top officer told TOI soon after the meeting concluded.
 
 Deputy CM Maurya had demanded strict action against the DM for embarrassing the government in his FB post. Principal secretary, home, Arvind Kumar said that no action has been initiated against Singh so far. Some senior officers spoke to him on phone and advised him not to put any views on FB post which is violation of service conduct and rules. Considering the tough mood of the CM, it was expected that Bareilly DM may have to face consequences for his FB post.
 
