PUNE: The Maharashtra bandh called by various Dalit organisations on Wednesday paralyzed normal life across the state with violence breaking out in several cities and towns. Commuters, students, traders and office-goers faced a harrowing time with transport services being thrown out of gear for the second day running. Shops, eateries and commercial establishments either stayed closed on their own or were forced to down shutters by protesters.

 Scores of members from Dalit groups poured out onto the streets from early morning in response to the bandh call given by Prakash Ambedkar’s Republican Party of India Bahujan Mahasangh. Violent protests had erupted in the state on Tuesday, a day after a 28-yearold man died after being hit by a stone in a clash between two groups. The clash occurred during the celebrations held at Koregaon Bhima, near Pune, to mark the bicentenary of a British-Peshwa war.
 
  
  
 
 Motorcycle-borne youths waving blue flags forced shopkeepers to down shutters in most cities across the state, including Mumbai Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad, Nagpur and Aurangabad. Small-time vendors conducting their businesses bore the brunt of the protesters’ fury.
 
 Furious citizens alleged that the police acted like mere bystanders, allowing the protesters to cripple services which started normalising only after Ambedkar called off the bandh in the evening.
 
 In Mumbai, rampaging mobs damaged vehicles, blocked roads and railway tracks, besides throwing stones at city transport buses and trains. In Pune, the protesters again blocked traffic at the Urse toll naka on the Pune-Mumbai expressway, at Khed-Shivapur on the Pune-Bengaluru highway and at   on the   highway. However, the protesters were cleared within around 15 minutes.
 
 Medical services were hit with not just hospitals, but even clinics seeing very few patients. Most autorickshaws and radio cabs stayed off the roads in Pune and Mumbai.
 
 
 
 
 Passengers flying into Mumbai and Pune were stranded for hours at the airports. The only solace was that several airlines waived off the flight cancellation charges.
 
 Aurangabad and other towns in Marathwada were tense with protesters resorting to heavy stone-pelting. Nearly a dozen cases of rioting and attempt to murder have been registered against the protesters for throwing stones at the police and citizens in Aurangabad. An assistant commissioner of police and a few constables sustained injuries in the stone-pelting. However, no arrests were made till last reports. In Aurangabad, the police with the help of telecom operators suspended mobile internet services in the city for 24 hours.
 
 Protesters vandalised shops and damaged vehicles in the Bindu Chowk area of Kolhapur. Around 40 people, including eight policemen, were injured in stone-pelting reported from various places in city. Two of them are critical. Among the injured were Shahuwadi’s deputy superintendent of police (DySP) R R Patil and city DySP Prashant Amrutkar. All the injured have been shifted to the CPR civil hospital.
 
 Though there was no impact of the bandh in the Satpur and Ambad industrial estates of the MIDC in Nashik, places like Igatpuri, Dindori, Pimpri Sayyad, Satana and Yeola in the district saw a near total bandh. Protesters attempted to set a bus ablaze in Lasalgaon. In North Nagpur, agitators shouting anti-BJP slogans threw cow dung on posters of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and   minister  .
 
 Though Fadnavis promised an inquiry into the incidents of violence during the bandh and asserted that the law enforcers were monitoring the CCTV footage of the violence, it failed to pacify the opposition.
 
 Both Houses of Parliament witnessed a ruckus over Wednesday’s bandh and the tension and violence in Maharashtra over the last three days. Both Houses were adjourned as several opposition members, including those from the   and BSP, sought to raise the issue of caste violence in Maharashtra. Blaming the police machinery led by Fadnavis,   MP from Shirur, Shivaji Adhalrao Patil, told TOI that he has requested the central home ministry to intervene.
 
 Though Ambedkar called off the day-long bandh in the state, he warned that future protests would be violent if the state government did not arrest Bhide Guruji and  , whom he has accused of being the instigators behind the Bhima Koregaon violence on Tuesday.
 
