It’s Saraswati Pujo, Basanta Panchami, today as I write this. The end of winter marking our spring, the few weeks of grace before summer starts making its humid presence felt. The papers confirm we will no longer have average temperatures below 12º C, something we enjoyed the last couple of weeks, while some didn’t. We can delay mothballing our woollens a bit, but let’s not forget that the quality of the air we breathed this winter has been severe, often worse than Delhi. Yet as the cold will dissipate and our air quality might improve, it should still concern us that we do nothing much about it.

 In the alleyway, between buildings opposite my home, they are celebrating the goddess of learning. The pandal is a tiny decorated platform dangerously suspended above the alley between the walls of the two properties, allowing passage beneath. The pujari climbs a wooden ladder propped up against a wall to get to where the goddess is placed. Chinese-made fairy lights form an archway to the pandal and two wilting banana tree stems with their leaves nailed to the wall have been placed in earthen pots on either side of the alley’s entrance. The local pi-dog just did his business on one, a leg laconically lifted as he gazed around. The big black speakers on a wooden platform of the shop next door are blasting Bangla and Hindi film songs. At night they play only Punjabi rap and hip-hop, every now and then playing Despacito on loop, their nod to multiculturalism I presume. I’m not surprised since   tells me there’s an Institute of Spanish Studies close by, though I have never seen it.
 
 The absence of any pious intention other than perfunctory ritual makes this just another ‘utsav’ our government seems to have a particular fondness for. Essentially, party time for a bunch of mostly unemployed male youth with an unofficial license to blast music of their choice in the neighbourhood. They talk loudly on the street, laughing uproariously at nothing at all and dance that dance they all dance at pujas, arms, legs and bodies flung this way and that, no pretence at keeping the rhythm. These are ways of keeping our youth occupied when there is otherwise not much on offer for them to be contributing citizens.
 
 The Times of India also informs me that Kolkata could well become the next big digital hub according to a report — Kolkata 4.0: Developing an innovation ecosystem. The reasons are “skilled workers, improved governance and institutional support, rising real incomes and low cost of living”. The report also recommends that Kolkata must “internationalise more, improve its brand perception, particularly among its diaspora”. Not having read the report, I wonder what exactly these recommendations entail at a practical level.
 
 In what I believe is a parallel course of thought, an article published last year in the Harvard Business Review, says that “From   to the Pentagon,
 
 people are beginning to realise that to effectively tackle today’s biggest social and technological challenges, we need to think critically about their human context — something humanities graduates happen to be well trained to do”. The article is titled: Liberal Arts in the Data Age.
 
 Strangely enough, that was the sort of learning this city of ours offered not that long ago, and still does, though in rather reduced circumstances. A one-time journalist colleague now with a global technology firm here, has been frequently bemoaning the fact that our present authorities do not understand nor appreciate the growing needs of a rapidly developing, technology-driven world. This is the fourth industrial revolution and he feels governments need to understand that. Abhijit Roy goes on to observe at the recently concluded Bengal   Summit, “there was an infotech session along the sidelines of the main event, which ran out of seats as everyone crowded to see youngsters from middleclass Bengali homes winning in a technology-innovation contest. There were no pinstripes in the technology hall. Some of the young boys and girls seemed to be wearing a suit for the first time and were waiting for the first opportunity to take those off. The business family DNA was clearly shifting to the technology DNA”.
 
 Make In India is only possible with radical changes in mindsets and the system. Our lawmakers must stop looking at everything as a nail just because they hold the hammer. Three songs which impacted me in many ways are also songs about change. Sam Cooke was known as the King of Soul Music and influenced generations after him. His A change is gonna come is uplifting to say the least. He was shot dead by a woman when he was 33 years old, the courts ruling it a “justifiable homicide”.
 
 Imagine by  , also shot dead at 40, should be the anthem of the change brigade. It’s all there, whatever we really should be. You may say I’m a dreamer/But I’m not the only one/I hope someday you’ll join us/And the world will live as one.
 
 And the song that inspires me in my dotage is by John Hiatt, thankfully still alive, appropriately titled Old people. Old people are pushy, cause you don’t know how they feel/And when you pretend you do/Well they know it’s not real/Pretty soon it’s gonna be all over/ Good enough reason not to let you pass/ They done seem like sweet, little old people/But they are not about to kiss your ass.
 
 — PATRICK SL GHOSE
 
