Mysuru: Affirming that he would be contesting this year’s assembly elections from   constituency, chief minister   said that Congress would return to power in Karnataka.

 Siddaramaiah, who participated in the Okkuli celebrations at D.Salundi on Tuesday, said that it was at Chamundeshwari that he had made his bones as a politician. “I was born as a politician in Chamundeshwari, and it subsequently gave me a rebirth during the by-election. I will contest my last election this year from the same constituency as well,” said the CM.
 
 Charging his political rivals of spreading rumours about him not contesting from Chamundeshwari, Siddaramaiah said, “I am contesting from Chamundeshwari, and that is 100% certain. There are no two ways about it.”
 
 The CM credited his growth as a political leader to the support he had received from the people of the Old Mysuru region. “I have won the election five times from Chamundeshwari, and I have to repay my debt to the people of the constituency,” he said.
 
 Taking a swipe at ‘Gau Rakshaks’, Siddaramaiah said that those who had never got their hands dirty with   were talking about protecting cows. “We worship cows. We have cleaned their dung, and dumped it,” he added, accusing   of dividing people in the name of cows.
 
 Siddaramaiah said that festivals and fairs were held regularly in villages to promote communal harmony. “Irrespective of their caste and religion, people come together and mingle freely, upholding human values. Festivals are symbols of our plurality,” he added.
 
 Reminiscing about his childhood, Siddaramaiah said, “I took part in the Suttur Jathre as an eight-year-old, and I loved dancing. I was dancing to my heart’s content, when Rajendra Swamiji spotted me, and gave me Rs 5 as a token of encouragement.”
 
 CM recalls teacher’s role
 
 Recalling that he had been admitted directly to fifth standard, the CM said, “My father’s name was Siddarame Gowda, he wanted to name me after him. But my teacher Rajappa suggested the name Siddaramaiah. I would not have joined school had Rajappa not come to our village as the headmaster. I would not have received education, nor would I have entered politics and become the CM.”
 
 
