RAJKOT: In a spate of suicides, nine persons that included three couples in love and a student, ended their lives Rajkot and   ending Thursday afternoon.

 The couples committed suicide for reasons varying from opposition by their family members to elopement. However, the reason for suicide of the student and married woman is yet to be ascertained. 
 
 In the couples’ suicides, the first case was reported from Ambedkarnagar area on 150-feet Ring Road of Rajkot, where Gayatri Rathod (16) and Jayesh Chandrapal (20) ended their lives by consuming poison at a factory in   in the same area on Friday morning. Both were taken to Rajkot Civil Hospital where they were declared brought dead. “Both were in love and had eloped 20 days ago. However after elopement, both surrendered themselves before the police, which called their respective family members, who promised to get them married once they attained the legal age of marriage. However, as they could not bear the separation, they decided to end their lives,” an official from Malaviyanagar police station said. 
 
 In the second case, the decomposed bodies of Anil Makwana (23) and his aunt Kajal Makwana (30) were found from the farm of Devendrasinh Jadeja at Adval village of Jamkandorana taluka in Rajkot on Thursday. The bodies were found when labourers were reaping the harvest at the farm. Police said Anil was in love with Kajal and had eloped with her 20 days ago. “However, no police complaint was lodged by the family members of the couple fearing social stigma. Kajal was married with two kids. We found an empty poison bottle lying near the bodies. It seems they died after consuming it,” an official from Jamkandorana police station said.
 
 The third case was reported from Jalsika village of Wankaner taluka in Morbi, where bodies of labourers —Janak Lokhil (28) and Jagu Bawalia (21) — were found from the courtyard of a temple on the banks of river Machhu. Police said both had consumed poison. “The couple had eloped on Wednesday. It appears that both decided to end their lives as their family were opposed to their relationship as both belonged to different casts,” Wankaner taluka police station sub-inspector B D Parmar said. 
 
 In Astha Green City on   in Rajkot, a second year student of mechanical engineering diploma Parth Solanki (18) hanged himself to death from the ceiling of his room on Thursday night. The reasons for the extreme step is yet to be ascertained. 
 
 The last case was reported from Itala village of Padadhari taluka in Rajkot, where   Patadia (19) ended her life by consuming poison on the banks of a river. She was taken to Rajkot Civil Hospital, where she died during treatment on Thursday night. “Hetal was married just 23 days ago. She was visiting her parents for the first time after marriage. We will be questioning her husband and relatives to know the cause of the suicide,” an official from Padadhari police station said.
 
 
