MOHALI: Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on Friday seized 1-tonne of biomedical waste of   Hospital being delivered to a scrap dealer in Dadumajra.

 The department will issue show-cause notice to the hospital after submitting a report to the government, said board chairman  .
 
 The department recorded the statement of truck driver transporting the waste and the scrap dealer.
 
 Pannu said, “The instructions are very clear under   (Management and Handling) Rules, 1998, having a methodology for disposing the waste. Here, we found the hospital delivering the biomedical waste to a scrap dealer in Dadumajra. We are preparing a report on the seizure, after which a show-case notice will be sent to the hospital.”
 
 Kanwaldeep Kaur, sub-divisional officer, Punjab Pollution Control Board, said the department had specific information regarding the waste being transported out of the hospital in violation of the rules.
 
 She said, “We set up a check post in front of the hospital. A team chased the truck carrying the biomedical waste from the hospital till it was delivered to the garbage collector. The waste was untreated.”
 
 Vijay Kumar, sub-divisional officer, Punjab Pollution Control Board, said the driver told them such kind of waste had been given to scrap dealers earlier too.
 
 The waste comprised used syringes and blood transfusion pipes among other items.
 
 Officials sent the waste was destroyed at a common facility in   village. Environment Engineer,   said a suggestion for taking appropriate action against the hospital under Environment Protection Act has been forwarded to the higher officials.
 
 Kahan Singh Pannu, Chairman PPCB
 
 A team of PPCB followed the truck transporting biomedical waste out of Fortis Hospital till it delivered it to a scrap dealer in Dadumajra. We have recorded the statement of the driver and the dealer. The scrap dealer claimed this is a regular practice by the hospital. He further sends the waste to Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, where it is recycled and repacked. This is very serious matter. We will ensure appropriate action is taken.”
 
 We lodged police complaint: Fortis
 
 “Fortis Hospital, Mohali, has always maintained highest standards of waste disposal procedures and has been credited with excellent credentials by the governmental agencies. The hospital has no knowledge regarding the incident. In fact, upon learning about it, a police complaint was lodged requesting investigation in the matter. We will offer complete cooperation to the police,” a spokesperson of the hospital said.
 
 TOI BLEW THE LID
 
 The TOI has been regularly highlighting the illegal dumping and sale of biomedical waste. On December 12, 2017, TOI exposed the illegal sale of biomedical waste of PGI. A TOI team bought 250 syringes, 250 needles, 10 plastic glucose bottles and 50 intravenous lines, all for Rs 400 from a scarp dealer. Although the hospital marked a probe and   (CPCC) served a notice to it. PGI has not any action against the contractor responsible for disposal of waste so far. 
 
 
