BENGALURU: While cracking the whip on builders not complying with new real estate norms, the   ( )   is facing a tough task in dealing with unregistered housing projects over which it has no direct control.

 The authority has gathered information from various sources and confirmed that there are 1,294 unregistered projects across the state, of which over 800 are in and around Bengaluru.
 
 “Dealing with unregistered projects is an elaborate process as RERA has no direct control over them. We’re cracking down on them through all possible legal means,” said P Sunil Kumar, secretary,  .
 
 While there is no direct way to enumerate unregistered projects, the authority depends on sources, including newspaper reports and advertisements, web portals, complaints from buyers and official records of urban local bodies.
 
 “Considering the mushrooming projects, the number of unregistered projects could be much higher,” said Sunil Kumar.
 
 RERA has issued notices to all unregistered projects, and 488 project promoters have provided satisfactory explanations and found to be exempt from the RERA Act. Replies from 251 project promoters, however, did not satisfy RERA officials and they have been slapped with a second notice. 
 
 A RERA official said project promoters would be called for a third-party hearing by the adjudicating officer and and if found guilty, they’ll be liable for punishment under Section 59 of RERA Act that includes imprisonment and penalty up to 10% of project cost.
 
 More than 500 unregistered projects, however, have not responded to the notice and RERA officials are charting out the next course of action. “If we don’t get a satisfactory reply even after a third notice, I’ll have to write to the RERA chairman recommending imposition of penalty,” said Sunil Kumar. 
 
 No builder has been slapped with a penalty so far. Sunil Kumar said in 65 projects, RERA has reached the stage of issuing the third notice. He said the procedure would be completed by March first week. The first instance of imposition of penalty is expected next month, he said, adding that the authority will ensure projects come under the RERA net.
 
 Thousands of complaints
 
 Ever since the state government notified the RERA Act on July 10, 2017, the authority has registered 1,903 projects. It has received thousands of complaints from home buyers, and 22 orders have been passed by the adjudicating officer.
 
 While most orders were compromise arrangements between buyer and builder, the authority has, in a few instances, made builders pay a compensation to buyers. In one case, a city-based builder reimbursed over Rs 52 lakh paid by a buyer as the initial deposit amount with interest.
 
 Hefty penalty collected
 
 The project promoters had to register themselves on or before July 31, 2017. As many builders failed to do so, the authority has imposed a penalty. The builders had to pay 100% of registration fee for the delay of a month. For the second month, they had to pay 200% penalty. The authority officials said they have imposed up to 300% penalty. 
 
 
