PANAJI: With several human rights cases taking a toll on its image, the government has issued a circular to all departments to deal with embarrassing situations often faced before the  . 

 Failure to file proper replies, late replies, delay in filing appeals and non-compliance of legal procedures have put the government in poor light before the commission in sensitive matters. 
 
 To put up a proper defence of government action, a circular has been issued to departments to appoint a nodal officer and follow up cases in right earnest.
 
 The circular, issued by home department under secretary  , stated that departments/autonomous bodies/corporations/offices/boards shall appoint a nodal officer who shall be overall in charge of dealing in the proceedings before the human right commission and will assist the advocate to prepare and file the reply on time. The nodal officer or an official well conversant with the matter shall attend the hearing. 
 
 The circular said that it has been noticed that the commission issues notices to the chief secretary being the head of the administration in a number of matters pertaining to various departments. “In such cases, it shall be the responsibility of the secretary concerned to ensure that there is proper representation before the commission so as to avoid any embarrassment to the government for non-submission of timely reports and proper representation before the commission,” the circular stated. 
 
 The circular stated that on receipt of the notice the department shall examine the matter thoroughly and take all required steps to appoint a pleader, if required.
 
 The home department also said that on the receipt of the notice from the commission an authorized person shall ensure that there is proper representation before the commission on the 1st day of the hearing so as to avoid any undue embarrassment to the government.
 
 On receipt of a report from the commission, all heads of the department shall ensure to send an advance copy to the chief minister, chief secretary, secretary concerned and minister concerned for his perusal.
 
 
