CHANDIGARH: A 23-year-old man working in a hotel was stabbed to death near Government Model Senior Secondary School, Vikas Nagar,  , on Saturday night.

  was returning from the hotel in Sector 5, Panchkula, on his cycle after completing his shift when three men waylaid him. Footage from a closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera installed near a shop showed the three attacking him with a sharp-edged weapon on his chest thrice. Police said old rivalry was the reason behind the   as mobile phone and cash of the victim were not stolen.
 
  
  
 
 Jaswinder Singh, officiating   (east division), said Sahu hailed from Bhagalpur in  . The DSP said police got information that a person was lying near the school in Vikas Nagar around 12.45am. A PCR (police control room) vehicle took Sahu to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where doctors declared him brought dead.
 
 Sahu was living with his younger brother at the rented accommodation in Vikas Nagar for last more than three years. Manju, Sahu’s landlady, said he used to return from the hotel around 1 am on his cycle daily. Sahu had also applied for visa last year. His father had died a few years ago and he had brought his younger brother to the city for studies around three months ago. “We never found him indulging in any anti-social activities. He had no enmity with anyone in the area,” Manju said.
 
 CCTV footage showed the accused were waiting for Sahu to arrive, knowing the route he took to go home. They first stopped a cyclist but when they realised he was not Sahu, they let him go without hurting or looting him.
 
 Police had earlier presumed Pawan had died in an accident, but after seeing the CCTV footage, the Mauli Jagran police registered a case of murder.
 
 The DSP along with three station house officers of Manimajra, Mauli Jagran and Industrial Area carried out raids in the area but failed to catch the accused. Police said the faces of the accused were not clear in the footage. However, police have detained some drug addicts and suspects from the area and have been interrogating them.
 
 
 
