A couple of days ago, BT had told you about television couple   and   ending their two-year relationship. While the actor had then blamed the break-up on their ‘irrevocable differences’, Pooja has now come out in the open about what went wrong. The aspiring actress has accused Ssharad of keeping her in the dark about his intention, to call it quits, for almost two months. 

 In an exclusive chat with BT, she says, “Ssharad started acting weird around six months ago, when he suddenly became inattentive and disinterested. However, I assumed that it was because of stress at work; I couldn’t fathom that he was planning to end the relationship. Around two months ago, I got to know that he was meeting a girl on the pretext of professional collaboration.”
 
 Pooja says, “He told me that his manager had fixed a meeting with her, but they had actually connected on Instagram. Even then, I didn’t suspect anything amiss. I have never interfered in his work and so, there wasn’t any reason for him to lie to me.” She adds, “On the day of break-up, he told me that he didn’t feel any connection with me. He also told me that two months ago, his astrologer had advised him against being with me, saying that it is detrimental for him. He wanted to end our relationship at the behest of his mother and the astrologer. I was aghast that he kept me in the dark for two months.” 
 
 Surprisingly, Pooja says that Ssharad had spoken about marriage even a month ago. “Despite being warned against it, he told me that he still wanted to marry me. Looking back, I realise that his stance on marriage would change every six months. During the initial phase of our relationship, he had told my mother that he wanted to marry me, but after that, he never called her up. We have had our share of fights, but he would always come back promising to make things work.” 
 
 Ssharad, who admitted to ending the relationship because of personal issues, has also opened up further. Talking to BT, he says, “I told Pooja’s mother that I would love to settle down in the future. But being marriage-phobic, I stepped back. That was wrong on my part, I accept it. Things don’t always turn out the way you want; it’s not always possible to judge situations. I didn’t want to hurt anyone, but unfortunately, the matter went out of my hands.”
 On keeping Pooja in the dark about his astrologer’s advice, the actor explains, “My mother consulted the astrologer again 10 days ago, and that’s when we realised that there is no solution to the issues in our charts. My mom told me that the marriage could be bad for both of us. Yes, it was a mistake that I didn’t tell her for two-and-a-half months, but I wanted to be sure before I broke the news to her.”
 
 Ssharad denies dating any other girl. He says, “That is not the reason at all. Irrespective of whoever I meet, there is no third party involved.” 
 
