MADURAI: The   Madurai bench on Wednesday said the darshan point in temples should be equal for all devotees and there should not be any disparity. 

 The court said this after it was told that devotees coming in queue to have a free darshan at Trichy’s Samayapuram Mariamman temple are made to worship the deity from a distance, while VVIPs and those who pay money are allowed to get closer to the deity.
 
 Trichy-based advocate   filed a public interest litigation. When it came up for hearing before the division bench headed by chief justice  , the petitioner’s counsel told the bench that the Hindu religious and charitable endowment (HR&CE) department is denying equal rights to devotees coming to the temple. It discriminates devotees on the basis of economic condition. This is against the Indian Constitution, the counsel said. 
 
 The temple authorities maintain three different queues for devotees to worship the main deity, Mariamman. They allow politically and economically influenced people very close to the deity and also allow them to sit there for a long time. The queue next to them is paid darshan and people coming in it have also been facilitated to worship the deity to some extent closer for some time. But, it is not the scenario in case of devotees coming in free darshan queue. Besides, the temple staff wanted them to move fast. 
 
 The   in one Siva Thanu Chettiar’s case held that the constitutional scheme of things does not permit any citizens to believe that economic affordability could be a tool to divide the citizenry for a darshan in a public temple. The economic consideration, some of the citizens are given the privilege of proximate or speedy darshan and those can’t afford shall have distant darshan, itself is an affront to the equality before law as enshrined under the Constitution, the counsel said. 
 
 Seeking to permit all devotees in one queue to worship the deity, the petitioner sent a representation to the HR&CE officials concerned on March 19, but there was no action on it, the counsel said.
 
 
