BAREILLY: When 23-year-old Ayesha (name changed) became pregnant, she was not yet ready to be a mother. That’s when she heard about the MTP kit, a combination of one pill of 200 milligram Mifepristone and four pills of 200 microgram Misoprostol, available at the local chemist’s shop. She chose to abort her baby using the kit rather than going to a hospital as she didn’t want to inform her mother-in-law, who wanted a grandchild as soon as possible. However, this unsupervised abortion resulted in pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) in her. Ayesha’s case is no different from scores of others who visit gynaecologists daily with complications due to unsafe abortion methods. 
 
  In a recent study published in the medical journal The Lancet Global Health, a total of 15.6 million (1.56 crore) abortions took place across India in 2015, against the 7 lakh figure the Centre has been putting out every year for the last 15 years. Not only do a lot more Indian   than previously thought undergo abortions every year, an overwhelming number — 81% — take medicines at home instead of going to hospitals, the study has said. It estimated that close to three in four abortions are achieved using drugs from chemists and informal vendors.
  
  Under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act (MTP Act), 1971, a pregnancy can be medically terminated only by a “registered medical practitioner” at a medical facility (government-owned or private) registered as an MTP centre. WHO says abortion medicines are safe and effective only when used correctly and within a nine-week gestational limit.
  
  Dr  , chief medical superintendent of Women’s  , said, “Of the 100 cases we receive daily, 10% are of complications caused by self-medication to abort the foetus. Women approach us with complaints of excessive bleeding and infections. They tell us about the usage of such medicines only after detailed questioning. The chemist gives them the MTP kit without even verifying the prescription. In some cases, they are unable to completely terminate the pregnancy.”
  
  Durgesh Khatwani, president of City Chemists’ Association, said, “Many unlicensed chemist shops and quacks sell such medicines to women who do not want more children or to unmarried girls who are afraid to inform their families. MTP kits having the same formula is available in at least 40 brands with retail prices as low as Rs 380.” 
  
  Dr Pramila Gaur, additional director (health), said, “No study has been conducted to determine the number of cases in which women have suffered complications due to the usage of MTP kits on their own. Consuming such medicines during later stages of pregnancy can even prove fatal to the mother. In some cases, the foetus is not aborted fully and tissues remain in the body. Then, doctors will have to surgically remove it from the uterus.”
  
  “In some cases, a woman who manages to terminate her pregnancy with MTP kits under medical supervision becomes a ‘doctor’ for this problem for her friends and relatives. However, side-effects of any drug differ from person to person. Aborting the foetus without consulting an expert can result in various complications, of which PID is the most common infection,” she added.
  
  Ramshree Gangwar, an ASHA worker in  , claims that such cases are a common affair. “Most often, women or their husbands purchase medicines from a chemist shop for abortion. Later when something goes wrong, they approach us. Last week, a 32-year-old woman from Nawabganj consumed such medicines as the couple did not want a third child. However, when she suffered excessive bleeding, I had to rush her to the district hospital.”
