HYDERABAD: The mushrooming of   service providers in the city, in recent times, has thrown up a new challenge - of credibility. With no regulatory body in place to oversee the functioning of this largely unorganised industry, experts say that most of these agencies operate on their own terms with zero accountability. 

 "Barring a handful of organised players, the rest of the business runs as an unorganised sector. Neither is there any formal process that these firms follow while setting up shop, nor do they run thorough background checks while hiring. As a result, their credentials are often suspicious," said Dr Mahesh Joshi, chief executive officer, Apollo Homehealthcare, advising people availing of these services - majority of them senior citizens - to be overly cautious while signing up.
 
 But despite concerns about their authenticity, industry insiders confess that these firms are in high demand owing to the relatively cheaper fee levied by them. So, while a caregiver hired through a major home-care provider might charge up to 17,000 , the same is available for 8,000- 10,000, if sourced through a small agency, experts say. 
 
 "It is essentially this difference in rate that holds people back from opting for a bigger firm," said  , regional manager, operation and sales (  and  ) for Portea a major player in this sector, suggesting that home-care be brought under health insurance cover. "That way people, especially the elderly, will not have to worry about paying from their pocket for home healthcare and can, therefore, opt for more credible firms. It'll also help us offer caregivers a better pay and rope in genuine individuals," she added. 
 
 Though some efforts are now being made by established players to organise the sector and put in place a framework for it to work within, experts say that the industry still has a long way to go before it can achieve that. "The Quality Accreditation of India has brought all stakeholders together to define the norms for healthcare at home in India (on par with international standards). But we must realise that this healthcare system is still very new; it will mature over time," Dr Joshi said. 
 
