
The musical event   has always been a great platform for upcoming independent musicians. In its third season too, there were around 15 singers who performed for the first time. The event was aimed to celebrate womanhood and thus the lineup included only city-based female vocalists. Singers like Doyel Goswami, Indira Majumder, Sreetoma Bandyopadhyay, Sandipa Dutta, Ivy, Moitreyee, Sulagna Banerjee and Sinjini, among others, mesmerised the audience with their 
 performances. “Impromptu is a rare and fascinating genre, especially when it comes to live programmes. It was my first time at Shoi and I had an amazing experience jamming with some terrific musicians,” said Sreetoma. One of the youngest performers at the show was director Satarjit Sen’s daughter, Radhika Sen, who rendered Evanescence’s My immortal. “It was a fun experience to perform at this event,” said the 14-year-old. 
 
 
 
  
  Apart from the female vocalists, there were also a few bands that took to the stage to enthral the audience. Hridkosh, Aakhor, The Miliputs and Nagar Sangkirtan Live performed at the event. Some of the songs rendered by them were Amader golpo, Bokul phool and Lajja, among others. “Performing for Shoi is more like a reunion among friends from the music fraternity. This is also the best way to celebrate International Women’s Day. Thanks to the organisers who make us feel more special and powerful in this way,” said  , a member of The Miliputs. 
 
 
 
 The gala musical evening had several city-based musicians who played instruments to support the performers. On percussions were   and Dripta, on guitar was Sunny Bhattacharya, Pratick Dey Sarkar played the keyboard and Shubha played the flute during a few performances. “This event is one of its kind and I love playing here. I make it a point to attend Shoi every year if I am in town,” said Bunty.
 
 
 
 The event that took place at a rooftop in the heart of the city, saw several well-known faces from the music and film industries. We also spotted director   enjoying the show along with little Broto Banerjee, who plays one of the principal characters in   and Shiboprosad’s upcoming film. “I am not a regular at rooftop musical concerts but the ambience at Shoi is beautiful. Through such platforms we get to hear the music of many upcoming and talented singers,” said Shiboprosad. Much to the delight of the audience, young Broto also rendered a Rabindrasangeet at the show. 
 
  
  
 ‘In these three years of Shoi, I have given a chance to over 
 60 upcoming singers to perform in front of some of the big names from the music industry. I feel This is my biggest achievement’
 — Sayok Das, one of the organisers of the show
 
 
 
