BHUBANESWAR:   (ECoR) has started a special drive to check   from goods train running under its jurisdiction. It has alerted its workforce about the   and intensified frequent patrolling and deputation of staff in sensitive areas to tackle these menace.

 “We took this step after getting feedback from people of Bhadrak about stealing of coal from trains and other illegal activities. We have also formed a special squad to check coal smuggling. This drive will continue,” said Braj Mohan Agrawal, divisional railway manager, Khurda Road division.
 
 He said a lot of such incidents have been reported from Bhadrak-Dhamra Port private rail line under the control of Dhamra Port. “Efforts are being taken to curb the theft by ECoR with the coordination of district and state police. I along with senior divisional security commissioner have taken up the matter with Dhamra Port authorities and state police,” he added.
 
 The railway line from Dhamra Port to Ranital is owned and operated by Dhamara Port Corporation Limited and falls under the jurisdiction of Bhadrak district administration. Railway receives repeated public complaints regarding rampant theft of coal from coal loaded wagons during their run between Dhamara Port and Ranital station. A group of criminals have been committing theft of coal by utilizing local villagers at Cabin Junction near Ranital. The miscreants unload coal from the wagons of the running trains, said ECoR sources.
 
 “Since the railway line is not falling under the jurisdiction of ECoR, Railway Protection Force (RPF) cannot intervene directly. ECoR   authorities at Khurda Road division are pursuing the matter with Bhadrak police, but such incidents are still continuing in the area,” said a senior railway officer.
 
 DRM Khurda Road on Friday has taken up the issue with senior police officers to stop coal theft and other illegal activities. “People can give information in this regard to RPF security control room by dialing 182,” said a senior RPF officer.
 
