MUMBAI: The   has over the past month collected more than 2,300 kg of banned   at dedicated containers placed at various spots for the convenience of the public. The BMC also collected about 47,600 kg more of dry waste than usual, some of it plastic, at waste segregation centres at the local ward level.

 Municipal officials said the public response to their appeal to deposit plastic with the BMC was poor. The state government   on a vast range of plastic products, including carry bags, kicked in on March 23 and people have time till June 23 to get rid of these.
  
  
 The BMC has now activated a dedicated a toll-free number, 1800222357, on which people can call municipal staff to collect the plastic in their possession. It is also starting an awareness campaign from next week to urge people not to use plastic and to deposit it with the municipality.
 
 “Societies and business establishments need to collect the banned plastic on their premises and give a call on the provided number,” assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar said. “Our team will visit them to collect the plastics from them.” 
 
 After the government ban announcement, the BMC planted plastic   bins in high footfall areas, mainly big markets. At many places, shopkeepers and others dumped all types of non-plastic waste in these.
 
 The BMC is yet to finalise an agency to recycle the collected plastic. Municipal officials said they were trying to zero in on recyclers registered with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). 
 
 Officials said that a couple of cold drink and bottled water manufacturer came forward showing their interest for the work.
 
 There is no plastic recycling centre in the city. Before now, ragpicker would segregate the plastic at BMC garbage collection centres in various parts of the city and sell it to scrap dealers. The dealers would sell it to various plastic recyclers, many of whom have their plants in Gujarat. There are four recyclers in Pune and its neighbourhood. 
 
 The BMC has also decided to publish the names of its officials along with the areas assigned to them for inspection while imposing the plastic ban after June 23.
 
 
