The success of his debut film,  , not only exceeded his expectations, but it also opened avenues for director  . He got calls from producers to make his next, and one of the first was KA Suresh, whose offer ‘floored’ Naresh. 

 “When Suresh called me, my first thought was that when dealing with a man who has made a string of commercially viable films I had to impress him with a story that made financial sense to him. I narrated a bunch of run-of-the-mill commercial stories, but he didn’t budge, only to then tell me that he wanted to see what more I could do after First Rank Raju, which was a concept-based film. He wanted an offbeat subject that I truly believed in and gave me the freedom to write it the way I deemed fit. I excused myself and asked for some time. About 10 days later, I went back to him with the thread of  . Honestly, I did not think any producer worth his salt would take a fancy to this tale, but Suresh liked it. This film does not have elements one would expect in a commercial film, yet he put his faith in me. Once the screenplay was ready, he asked me if I had any particular actor in mind for the role, which, I didn’t, as it is a character that anyone can play. Suresh then suggested why not use   again and the character’s name from my first film, Raju, as well. If he was an urban nerd in the first film, here he is a village bumpkin, which also makes the two films very different from each other,” says Naresh, adding, “If   can be Rahul in most of his films, why not have Gurunandan as Raju?” The filmmaker admits, though, that audiences are likely to think that there is a connect between the two films. “Having Gurunandan play Raju can deceive audiences, so we have been very vocal about the fact that there are no similarities. We worked extra hard on Gurunandan’s look in the film and the feel of the film,” he says.
 
 Raju Kannada Medium, adds Naresh, is not a film that can be classified in a particular genre. “There is love, but there is also a lot of philosophy, which, at no point becomes preachy. Even Sudeep’s character is one that elevates the film to the next level. The story revolves around human relationships and the characters will be relatable to the audience as someone they know or have come across at some point in their lives. Having a producer who supported me in this endeavour was a boon. For instance, I could have shot the entire film in India, but there was a portion that needed a foreign locale — an island, to be precise. We could have passed off an Indian location for that, but I was allowed to do what I thought was best for the film and the result is for all to see this week, when the film hits theatres. The story is the hero of this film, and I am glad I got to work with a team that realized this and helped me put it together,” he signs off.
 
