HYDERABAD: Launched with an aim to ease traffic congestion, several strategies of the traffic police department such as introducing free-left turn lanes and cop-less junctions with U-turns on either side have done quite the opposite-—say commuters.

 At several busy junctions, such as the IIIT junction in  , Jubilee Hills Check Post and Kothaguda junction, the free left passageway is often blocked by other vehicles, despite traffic cops putting up sign boards cautioning people against doing so. According to commuters travelling along these stretches regularly, longwinding traffic jams have become commonplace due to this practice.
 
 “The stretch between Hitex junction and Kothaguda junction has become extremely congested, solely because buses and other vehicles that want to take a right at the Kothaguda junction often block the free left,” said  , a resident of the area. “Every evening, I get stuck on this stretch for close to 20 minutes while returning from my office in  ,” he added.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Commuters travelling towards Gachibowli from Jubilee Hills Check Post also pointed out how the free left is often blocked by people travelling towards Road No 36, in spite a sign board at the junction.
 
 “Despite a traffic police station right on the turning of the IIIT junction, the free left leading towards DLF Cybercity is often blocked by vehicles. While traffic cops seem to be cracking the whip against other errant practices such as riding without a helmet or riding without wearing a seatbelt, they seem to be turning a blind eye to vehicle owners who block the free left passageway here,” said P Das, an IT professional.
 
 Nacharam X road junction and the Ambedkar Statue junction at Tank Bund are identified as among some other areas where the free left is often blocked, creating traffic congestion, according to commuters.
 
 “At the Ambedkar Statue junction, RTC buses are found blocking the free left at any given time of the day,” said Krishna Mohan, a resident of Himayatnagar.
 
 Traffic experts identified 13 locations, junctions which are closed by introducing two U-turns at either side, traffic congestion has only worsened.
 
 Residents pointed to the stretches between LB Nagar and Uppal, Sri Nagar Colony junction, Ameerpet junction, Khairatabad junction (near RTO office), and Tarnaka to Sitaphalmandi and Secunderabad as a few places where traffic congestion has increased due to the traffic police’s decision to introduce two U-turns on either side of the junction.
 
 “Due to the cop-less junctions on the roads as part of which U-turns have been introduced, traffic has become chaotic,” said Vinod Kumar Kanumala, founder of the Indian Federation of Road Safety (IFROS), while pointing out that no proper study or survey was carried out by the traffic police department before implementing this project.
 
 
 
 
 
 
