NAGPUR: Peeved over commercial use of divisional sports complex in Mankapur and   ground, both meant exclusively for sporting activities, Nagpur bench of   on Wednesday asked the authorities to file a detailed reply in two weeks. 

 The directives came after amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar filed an application pointing out that both places were now being increasingly given on rent for marriages, fairs, circuses, Garba, social gatherings, recreational activities and also for political rallies. It was filed in a suo motu PIL (No 45/2017) based on media reports alleging gross misuse of the   due to negligence of the district administration that often rented it out for the commercial activities. He also attached many photographs to substantiate the claims.
 
 Earlier, protocol officer of state legislature submitted an affidavit admitting it hadn’t taken permission from NMC’s Heritage Committee for parking vehicles at KP ground during winter session of state legislature in December. He informed that from next session, government would seek clearance from the panel.
 
 The affidavit was submitted in response to HC’s poser in the last hearing where it asked the government why it allowed the historic place for parking government vehicles during the assembly session. 
 
 Bhandarkar also attracted court’s attention to several vacant posts in Heritage Committee that was adversely affecting its working. He informed that after death of its chairman, the post was vacant while terms of many other members was over. The bench then directed the authorities to fill up the posts as early as possible.
 
 The amicus prayed for refraining the respondents from allotting Manakapur indoor stadium and Reshimbagh ground for any social and commercial events other than sports. Social worker   had actually brought this fact to his notice stating that both places were being grossly misused by the authorities — divisional commissioner’s office and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT). Photographs also show under-managed and dilapidated conditions of the stadium and pitiable condition of the ground. 
 
 The amicus pointed out that Reshimbagh ground had a historical value from the Bhonsale era and it was located in close proximity of Hedgewar Smruti Mandir. An East Nagpur corporator had lodged a complaint on its misuse by allotting it to Gagan Amusement Park for ‘Fun and Fair Disneyland’. The entire area was dug up and after 40 days, it had pits all over, thus hampering sports activities.
 
 Similarly, the divisional sports complex is also in a state of complete disarray due to its misuse for marriages and Garba. Over 2,000 persons danced during Garba, severely damaging the wooden badminton courts. Despite protest from over 100 persons last year against its ‘misuse and abuse’, its unlawful commercial exploitation has continued.
 
 (With inputs from Bhagyashree Kashyap)
 
 
