Vijayawada: Andhra Pradesh   Development Corporation (APMDC) on Sunday held surprise inspections at four restaurants in Nuzvid town of Krishna district and seized 50 kg of stale meat from them. APMDC fined the four eateries – Mathuri, Mythri, Vaibhav and Kanuri — to the tune of Rs 1.5 lakh.

 According to APMDC sources, the raids were held at many other slaughter houses in the town and a number of them failed the unhygienic standards. The meat found in the restaurants were frozen but stale. The restaurants allegedly served the meat to the customers.
 
 Speaking to TOI, APMDC chairman C Prakash Naidu said most of the restaurants were freezing meat in the refrigerators for days. The government formed the APMDC back in November 2017 in view of unhygienic meat sale meat.
 
 So far, MDC has conducted around 20 raids across Anantapur, Vijayawada, Gudivada, Nuzvid, Ongole, Guntur, Kakinada, Eluru and Kurnool. Prakash Naidu observed that there are many poultries and stalls that do not process meat in a hygienic manner. Officials said slaughter houses have the habit of cleaning the dead chicken in dirty broiler water, which is not changed. This is believed to infect the meat with bacteria and other hazardous material.
 
 “Also many shops do not remove the clotted portion of the meat from the body which then contaminates other parts too,” Naidu told TOI. Naidu also said that they would seize the shop if the hygienic standards don’t improve even after imposing fines. 
 
 “After the launch of APMDC, there has been a marked change. While there are other stakeholders like the food Safety inspectors, it is important to exclusively monitor the meat business in the state,” Naidu added. 
 
 Awareness programmes are being conducted by the corporation and officials are hoping that people take extra precaution when purchasing meet from local slaughter houses or eating at hotels and known restaurants.
 
 They also observed famous restaurants flout rules and do not meet the food safety standards in the city.
 
 
