KOCHI: The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations ( ) has decided to set question papers in core subjects for Classes IX and XI from this academic year.

 Till now, the council has been setting question papers only for Class X and XII. The decision was part of an effort to maintain uniformity and standardize the level of teaching and learning besides familiarizing students with the board examination system.
 
 In a letter to affiliated schools, chief executive and secretary of the council   announced the council’s new initiative and sought schools’ complete cooperation and support to make it a success.
 
 “The question papers will be utilized by all affiliated schools internally in annual examinations. Two sets of question papers will be prepared-one for the hill schools to be conducted in November/ December and the other for the plain schools to be conducted in February/March,” the letter stated.
 
 The move will help maintain a uniformity in all its affiliated schools across India and abroad with regards to the syllabus to be completed at Class IX and XI levels. “It will help to streamline and strengthen our examination system,” it said.
 
 Moreover, it would ensure that a proportionate portion of the syllabus was duly covered in each of the two-year course and that there was no over burdening of the students at any one particular level as, “due weightage will be given to all chapters and units in the bifurcated syllabus and it will discourage cramming”.
 
 The council was also planning to standardizethelevelofteaching and learning in all council affiliated schools across India and abroad to ensure comprehensive learning. “To synchronize the syllabus with the examination system and to familiarize the students with the pattern and the format of the examination question papers for the board examinations and to ensure proper dissemination of knowledge at each level and encourage ease of the transfer of knowledge from the teacher to the taught,” the letter added.
 
 Sources said the decision was taken after a study showed that the standard of performance of students in science and social science was below normal.
 
 “The council doesn’t allow lateral entry after Class IX. Therefore, it is important that in Class IX students are tested to improve standard and know if the problem is with the curriculum or mode of learning-teaching,” said a CISCE school principal.
 
