The latest episode of   starts with   telling Yash's mother that he is at their home as he had to give a pen drive to   and Zoya. As Aditya walks in the house, Yash's mother notices the photo of   and   on the floor. She asks Aditya to leave the house and scolds Zoya by saying that this was the last frame of Yash and Zoya's picture. Later Zoya scolds Aditya for disrespecting Yash in front of his mother and he tries to make her understand that he has done a lot to save Zoya and the company.

 As Zoya does not listen to him, Aditya gets irritated and walks away by saying that he does not care about the company now. Later, Zoya tells Mahi how Aditya refused to help them while Mahi consoles her by saying that Aditya will be okay by tomorrow. 
 
 Zoya finally gets happy to know that Yash's mother has accepted her into the family. 
 
 In another scene, Arjun reaches the office and Noor is in the cabin. Arjun asks Noor to go away and starts the show. In the office, Zoya gets worried when she comes to know that Aditya will not come to the office. Zoya tries calling Aditya but he does not receive the call. 
 
 Mahi calls Aditya and asks him to come to the office, but Aditya refuses to do so. Harsh is looking for the torn papers from the diary and starts doubting Sakshi. While on the others side, Kanti Virani sits down for the presentation and Zoya starts with the PPT. Everyone likes her idea, but Kanti asks her about her husband Aditya. Mahi says that Aditya is unwell and Kanti stops her. He says that he will not divulge from his own principles. While Kanti's younger son interrupts and tells him that he and Aditya have planned a small surprise for him. As he is a cricket fan, Aditya has planned a cricket match between Zosh events and Viranis.
 
 Kanti's younger son tells Zoya that their Zosh company will get yet another chance and they have time till 4 pm to get prepped up and give their best. Kalpesh talks to someone and says that he will make sure the event goes to Zosh. Zoya decides to apologise to Aditya and reaches his home. 
 
 Aditya tells her that he is busy and she has to wait for him. Aditya goes off to sleep and Zoya starts banging the door. Zoya apologizes but Aditya is not convinced. Zoya promises to do anything to seek forgiveness and Mahi accuses Zoya of all the problems. Sagarika hears their conversation and tells Mahi to keep out of Zoya and Aditya's business. 
 
 Kalpesh talks to Rajveer and invites him for the match. Rajveer says that he is the winner of this game and promises to open up everyone's cards. Mahi gets shocked to see Aditya arrive along with Zoya. Aditya then reminds Zoya of his condition which is to make her bow to him and praise him every 5 mins in her Urdu language. Sagarika enjoys their romance and asks the duo to hug each other. 
 
 
