KOLKATA: Nobel laureate   can say ‘cow’ but not ‘Gujarat’ in the Suman Ghosh-directed documentary, ‘The Argumentative Indian’.

 The   on Friday issued a show-cause notice to Ghosh, asking him to remove the word ‘Gujarat’ from the film. The examining committee in Kolkata had recommended six cuts, which included nine words, but the revising committee in Mumbai — which met in the presence of chairperson Prasoon Joshi — brought it down to just one.
 
 TOI on Friday reported that there were chances of a show-cause notice asking Ghosh to make one “modification” regarding the word ‘Gujarat’ uttered by Sen in the film.
 
 TOI tried to get in touch with Joshi after the show-cause notice was issued but he chose not to respond.   CEO Anurag Srivastava’s phone was switched off after the notice was issued; text messages, too, went unanswered.
 
 Ghosh, who had described Thursday’s “oral hearing” with Joshi as a “victory for freedom of expression”, told TOI on Friday that he would “consider the cut suggested and take a decision on this soon”.
 
 Ghosh said even after Friday’s show-cause notice, he would prefer to stick to his stand that the Mumbai hearing was a victory for “freedom of expression”.
 
 ‘Gujarat’ features in the lecture Sen delivered at Cornell University, where he has been filmed saying: “Why democracy works so well is that the government is not free to have its own stupidities and, in case of   its own criminalities, without the Opposition being howled down and booted out….”
 
 Friday’s show-cause notice didn’t suggest the film had gone uncut and, instead, stated the “reasons for grant of U with cuts”. The notice mentioned the documentary was “suitable for unrestricted public exhibition” provided the maker carried out the “exitions/modifications” with respect to ‘Gujarat’. The examining committee in Kolkata had asked the director to “mute” ‘Gujarat’ in the sentence where used along with “criminalities”. The Mumbai revising committee preferred to use the word “remove”.
 
 CBFC insiders in Kolkata had pointed Guideline 2 (XV) of the manual allowed it to ensure that the security of a state was not jeopardised or endangered. “It was felt that Sen’s phrase, using ‘Gujarat’ and ‘criminalities’, would be detrimental to the interest of the state. There are chances of public order being disrupted,” a CBFC insider had explained then.
 
 Neither CBFC chairperson Joshi nor CEO Srivastava was available to comment on the reasons for asking Ghosh to remove the word ‘Gujarat’ in Friday’s show-cause notice.
 
 
