GURUGRAM : Agitated over the recurring delays in takeover of their colony by MCG, Sushant Lok-1 residents have decided to hit the streets again from March 4, alleging that differences among the civic body, department of town and country planning (DTCP) and developer Ansal API on the takeover cost is holding up the entire process of handover.

 “The city authorities are ignoring our colony and giving a step-motherly treatment to it, citing legal hassles. Despite orders by the chief minister, the MCG is not taking any initiative to take over the colony from the developer. The CM had earlier said if the developer didn’t take into cognizance the expenses, the MCG would take over the colony and settle the issue on its own,” said Neelu Sharma, a resident, adding that their repeated pleas to various agencies during the last two years have fallen on the deaf ears.
 
 Several residents have also alleged that common areas in the colony such as parks and community centres are being sold off quietly at a time when the government authorities and the developer are passing the buck on each other for the delay. 
 
 “The developer has already sold off over 50% of parks originally planned as per its 1986 sale layout. The developer’s sales office in the A block was a prime example, which was demolished in 2009 after protests from the residents. However, they somehow manage to get their plans implemented illegally,” said Shashi Sharma, a resident.
 
 Sushant Lok-1 residents had earlier filed a complaint with the Gurugram police and the forest department against an alleged attempt by the developer to cut trees in a community park.
 
 “Residents want the developer to hand over the colony to the government, and are fighting them in court and tribunals. When will the government wake up from its slumber? Will there be an end to the encroachment attempt on the open areas of the colony? The remaining open areas are way below 45% already,” said AN Gupta, another resident.
 
 The process to take over Sushant Lok-1 had started in the summer of 2017. 
 
 Now, after the completion of the detailed project report and discussions at the ground level, the process has hit hurdles, with the developer refusing to pay the deficiency cost as prescribed in the MCG’s report.
 
 Ansal API Ltd denied the allegations raised by residents. “Ansal API is not selling off any community centres and parks. They have been under control of the resident welfare association (RWA) for last five years. We don’t know if they are selling common areas,” said a spokesperson for the developer.
 
 
