NEW DELHI: Do you know who played a huge role in tipping off the TV crew at Newlands to zero in on suspicious activity during day three of the controversial third Test match between Australian and South Africa? 

 
 
 
 
 That would be  , the retired South African fast bowler doing commentary during the match for one of the broadcasters. On Monday, during a radio interview, de Villiers revealed how he instructed TV camera operators to keep their lenses trained on the Australians for ball tampering on Saturday, having suspected that they were upto something suspicious.
 
  
  
 
 "I said earlier on, that if they could get reverse swing in the 26th, 27th, 28th over then they are doing something different from what everyone else does," the 53-year-old told RSN Radio. "We actually said to our cameramen, 'go out [and] have a look, boys. They're using something.' They searched for an hour and a half until they saw something and then they started following Bancroft and they actually caught him out at the end.
 
 "It's impossible for the ball to get altered like that on cricket wickets where we knew there was grass on, not a Pakistani wicket where there's cracks every centimetre," added de Villiers, who played 83 ODIs and 18 Test matches. "We're talking about a grass-covered wicket where you have to do something else to alter the shape, to alter the roughness of the ball on the one side. You have to get the one side wetter, heavier than the other side."
 
 
 
 
 According to de Villiers, the Australian cricket team could not have achieved reverse swing so early in the third Test without altering the shape of the ball. "Australian teams getting reverse swing before the 30th over, they had to do something. If you use a cricket ball and scratch it against a normal iron or steel gate or anything, anything steel on it, it reverse swings immediately. That's the kind of extra alteration you need to do," said the man who famously bowled South Africa to victory at the SCG in 1993-94.
 
  
  
 
 After the third day's play, while addressing the media at Newlands, Australia skipper   admitted that his team had deliberately tried to tamper with the condition of the ball on Saturday in an orchestrated attempt to gain an advantage.  , who was at the centre of the controversy after being picked up by TV camera putting a yellow object down the front of his pants before the two on-field umpires went to him and asked what was in his pockets, was subsequently charged by the ICC. Sitting next to Bancroft while speaking to the media on Saturday, Smith revealed that it was a deliberate plan from the "leadership group" of the side, but added he would not step down as captain. 
 
 
 
 
 The ball-tampering scandal involving the Australian team on tour in South Africa has left the cricketing world in an uproar, and which could see Smith and vice-captain   lose their leadership roles and   step down as head coach, continues to roll on. 
 
 The Australian media has been scathing of Smith's admittance that his side deliberately tried to tamper with the condition of the ball on the third day of the third Test against South Africa in Cape Town on Saturday in an orchestrated attempt to gain an advantage. Cricket Australia (CA) has begun its investigation in the controversy and will announce on Wednesday its findings, leaving plenty of speculation as to the quantum of punishment for Smith - who was fined his entire match fee and suspended for one Test and stepped down from the captaincy on the final day at Newlands - and the "leadership group" he admitted was involved in the ball-tampering incident which saw Bancroft caught on camera holding a foreign object while rubbing the ball, before hiding the object in his pocket and then his trousers.
 
