KOCHI:   from Uganda was on cloud nine when she got to see her son   preparing to celebrate his second birthday by cutting his favourite chocolate cake at   (AIMS) on Thursday.

 Jordan was born with a complex heart defect called tetralogy of fallot (TOF), a condition in which there is a presence of severe cyanosis in infants and as result these children are alsocalled as bluebabies.
 
 Jordan is the second son of  , who works for an NGO in Uganda and Mukhaye Jane, who was earlier abanking professional.
 
 Jordan was brought to   hospital in Kochi on March 14, 2018 for open heart surgery to cure hiscritical heart defect. He was treated and operated successfully by a team of paediatric cardiac surgeon and paediatric cardiologist led by Dr P K Brijesh and Dr R Krishna Kumar. The surgery took place on March15.
 
 According to Jane, though   was bornwithTOF, ittook some time for doctors in Uganda todiagnosethefactthat her son is battling with a life – threatening disease.
 
 “At first he had difficulty in breathing so doctors in Uganda thought it was pneumonia and treated him for that but later I noticed that his nails and lips are turning blue especially when hewas crying. In addition to that there was occasionally bleeding from nose and above all he was not gaining weight. He was becoming weak day by day and I had to even resign my job as I had tolook after him day and night,” said Jane, who was closetotears while recalling the days in which shewas unable to pacify her son who was wriggling with pain.
 
 Jane saidthat there were days where shecompletely losthope. “I didn’t knowwhat todo nor did myfamily. “Some in Uganda even said that I should stop the treatment given to my son as there is less chance for him to survive. But as a mother and human being I cannotseethedestruction of my child. My family toosupported me. I am glad that my son can now on enjoy life like the rest of the children, she added.
 
 “My son was first treated at the Uganda Heart Institute. However, doctors there advised that I shouldeither go toUSA or India for further treatment. Doctors at Uganda Heart Institute and Uganda Rotary Club told me abouttheGiftof Lifeinternational, which is an organization of Rotarians across the globewhich sponsors heart surgeries for children with congenital heart disease in developing countries. The officials at Gift of life got us in touch with Gift of Life programme in India. The Indian High Commission in Uganda helped us to get visa and facilitated travel arrangements, saidJane.
 
