It was around 8 am when a bus carrying 40 students of  , Mahendra  , broke down at   check post. And the students, who were heading to appear for the   of Intermediate Examinations 2018, broke into a nervous frenzy. After all, it was the first day of the most important examinations of their lives and they were stranded two kilometres away from their examination centre — Government Junior College, Marredpally. It seemed like their worst nightmare was coming true minutes before the exam was scheduled to begin.
 
 The hapless students accompanied by their teacher scampered out of the bus and began calling out for autorickshaws in a bid to reach their exam centre as soon as possible. Thankfully for them, Marredpally Inspector A   entered the scene and saved the day. “My team was on bandobast duty as a procession was to pass the area at 8 am. We were managing the traffic then, when 10 yards away we saw over 40 kids on the road frantically trying to stop autos,” recounts  , who took charge of the situation. 
 
 The policemen swung into action quickly, stopped autorickshaws plying on the way and packed the kids into them one by one. “I knew my uniform could get things done faster, so from 8:20 to 8:25 we stopped many autos and sent the students to their centres,” recounts Srinivasulu. 
 While most of the students were sent away, an anxious few were left stranded as there weren’t any auto rickshaws in sight.
 
 Then Srinivasulu proposed dropping them off in his patrol van. “I saw that a few female students were anxiously looking at their watches as there weren’t any autos plying on the way. So I asked them if they would be okay if I dropped them in my van. They readily agreed and we sped to the location,” he says. 
 The final lot — about eight students — managed to reach the centre, but they were late by a few minutes. But Srinivasulu personally requested the authorities to make an exception for the students and rushed them in. The cop says it was the least he could do. “We try our best to help out people. That is our duty after all. Personally, I have served for 22 years in Hyderabad and this is the least I could do. We don’t help people to be in media, do we? I did what I would do for my daughters,” he said, signing off.
 
