SURAT : The   department is unhappy over allotment of space by   ( ) at Surat airport for their smooth operations at the proposed international airport. 

 In a reply under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, deputy commissioner of customs, Surat division, R K   stated that during inspection visit of customs officials at Surat airport on April 4, 2018, for the proposed customs airport, the AAI authorities agreed to allocate six cabins on the ground floor on arrival side and one cabin on the first floor for the purpose of warehouse for the goods seized and detained. However, it was observed that the cabin space is small and not as per the prescribed space requirement at the airports. 
 
 Tiwari further stated that the AAI is not going to provide ladies staff room, room for sepoys and hawaldars and cabin space at the departure side of the airport. On discussion, the AAI officials stated that they have provided the best possible space to the customs department. 
 
 In a letter to the AAI on March 15, 2018, it was requested to provide sufficient space as described in the order of merit (OM) of the customs department dated December 20, 1965, for smooth working of the customs.
 
 Tiwari stated that the existing staff of customs division, Surat is not sufficient and additional staff is required for smooth operations of customs at Surat airport. The requirement of staff includes one deputy or an assistant commissioner, four superintendents, four inspectors and two sepoys. 
 
  MP had with much fanfare announced last month that the Central Government will be approving the customs notified status for limited international flight operations from Surat airport within a week. It has been almost one month, but the government is yet to make any announcement. 
 
 RTI activist   told TOI, “The information sought under RTI has opened the eyes of the citizens that the customs department is unable to run smooth operations from small-sized cabins and because of staff shortage. We will not be able to get customs notification given the fact that the terminal building infrastructure is not enough for conducting smooth customs operations. The AAI must immediately sanction terminal expansion at Surat airport in order to facilitate passengers as well as customs facilities.”
 
 
