BHOPAL: Saba Sultaan, the daughter of   - head of royal endowment trust of erstwhile   State - looks set to move beyond the administrative role and widen the ambit of her social engagement with the city. 

 Her first step would be to restore ' baoli' or step-well at Bada Bagh, which was built around 1819. The location near Hamidia Road is also a royal graveyard which,of late,fell victim to human greed and is now beset with problem of encroachments and disturbing presence of anti-social elements. 
 
 "I have not lost touch with Bhopal. I would want to enrich the city," said Saba, during her visit to Bhopal on Saturday. Nawabzadi Saba Sultaan Begum Sahiba is a descendent of royal family of erstwhile Bhopal State, which was ruled by women for four generations. Impressed by three-storeyed step-well with ornamental structures that surround the well along with colonnade with cusp arches and slender pillars, she said, "This heritage in Bhopal is on par with any in Udaipur or Jaipur". 
 
 Unfortunately, majority of lakes and step-wells of Bhopal, which were constructed and assiduously preserved by the then rulers of Bhopal, are in a state of decay and decline for long. 
 
 "Not only the royal family. It is also for residents of the city to protect and conserve," said Saba, who is mutawalli or custodian of Auqaf-e-Shahi, which has properties in Bhopal, Raisen and Sehore districts of MP. She is also custodian of rubaats (guest house) in the holy city of Mecca and Medina in Saudi Arabia. She was appointed as naib Mutawalli by Tiger Pataudi in 2008. 
 
 Seven years into the role, the sister of actors Saif and Soha, gave enough hints about her area of interest in coming days. "Actually, nothing has changed," said Saba, who on her this visit, went round Bada Bagh and other places and spoke about intensive need to restore ancient structures and promote Bhopal as a heritage destination.
 
  "What I can do I will do to make a difference. Unfortunately, in any city, we get caught in litigations," she said. The Mumbai-based jewellery designer once again indicated that she would come back to the city more often and participate in the endeavour. "I cannot crack a whip from miles away. My effort and energy is no less," she said. 
 
 "I will always be a part of Bhopal. There is strong energy and when I come here I am immediately happy," said Saba, seemingly encouraged by results efforts to restore parts of the royal graveyard.
 
 Saba has made it clear that she has no political ambitions. "I would not like to be politically involved, but socially yes. I will like to find solutions to help Bhopal. The agenda is to make Bhopal what everybody wants it to be," she said.
 
 Saba said she has not yet contacted any organisation for conservation efforts. Incidentally, the   (BSCDCL), which has taken up restoration of Sadar Manzil, has expressed its interest in restoration of the 200-year-old step-well in Bada Bagh.
 
 
