ROHTAK: Assistant commandant  , the co-pilot of the   helicopter which crashed near  's Raigad, was cremated with state honours in Karnal on Thursday. She was on life support following surgery for head injury and died on Tuesday night, after battling for life for 17 days. 

 Penny is survived by her father Gurmeet Singh, mother Manjeet Kaur and elder sister Rubal. Her school teachers and friends remember her as a meritiorious and sports loving girl.  , who works in the merchant navy and studied with Penny from classes V to XII at Nishan Public School in Karnal, recalled her as a lively person "who was a fast learner and as good in cultural activites, sports as in academics".
 
 Shekhar, who attended the cremation at Karnal crematorioum, said she used to be in the school team in taekwondo, swimming and basketball events. "During school days, she used to be in every activity that gives rush of adrenalin," he said. Shekhar said after doing her Class XII , she went to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), Bengaluru, to pursue the helicopter commerical pilot licence course. From there, she got inducted into the Coast Guard in her first attempt.
 
 "Her uncle test pilot Brigadier Amardeep Sidhu was her role model. She was inspired by him and often used to discuss about being a pilot," he recalled.
 
 Nishan Public School principal P N Tiwari said he taught Penny physics in classes XI and XII and found her to be an attentive student who also had an inquisitive mind to learn more about the subject. 
 
 He said her love for sports never came in way of her studies. "We are really proud of students like Penny, who remained successful in conducting their duty with valour and dedication," Tiwari said.
 
  MLA Harvinder Kalyan, officer on special duty (OSD) to Haryana chief minister Amrinder Singh and several BJP leaders came to attend Penny's last rites. Karnal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Narender Malik was also present on the occasion. 
 
 Chief minister   has mourned the sad and untimely death of Assistant Commandant Penny Chaudhary and conveyed his condolences to members of the bereaved family. 
 
 "The brave and gusty officer from Karnal was one of the youngest women pilots of the country. She was a bright student who worked hard to become a pilot and set an example for others to follow. 
 
 "I convey my heart-felt condolences to members of the bereaved family and pray that her soul may rest in peace," he said.
 
 
