NEW DELHI: India must consider a broad portfolio of energy sources to ensure reliable electricity supply to fuel its economic growth for its growing population instead of focusing only on affordability which can lead to serious consequences in future, US energy secretary   told TOI, backing a planned deal for supplying six   nuclear reactors. 

 “If this is just about the cheapest form of electricity that you can get here, you’re going to have problems. I am telling you, you are going to have some challenges. Because, at some point in time just relying upon the cheapest form of electricity will not address the economic challenges that you have, the growth you are going to have and to recruit the businesses that come to India,”   told TOI. 
 
 Perry brushed aside concerns over the affordability of electricity from Westinghouse reactors, especially compared to tariffs from renewable energy sources dropping to record lows of 4 cents a unit. “I am a realist about the Sun not always shining and wind not always blowing. Having a diverse portfolio is really important. Now, does that mean that every one of those sources of energy is going to be cheaper than the other? Probably not. What’s more important? Reliability or affordability?” 
 
 He also questioned the longterm reliability of cheap sources of energy. “We totally get it about affordability. But at some point in time there has to be a conversation about how you are going to keep your lights on. How are you going to guarantee to a company that you are going to try and recruit to come here and build a massive, $2 billion plant and one thing you tell most is that we sell cheap, we will have a low kilowatt hour cost but we can’t guarantee that it’s always going to be on,” he said. “This country (India) is going to grow. This country needs a million new jobs a month. That’s going to be a massive amount of individuals that are going to expect quality of life. Can you stand up and say that it’s always going to be 4 cents a kilowatt hour (the lowest solar power tariff in India),” he said to bolster his argument in favour of India expanding its nuclear power capability. 
 
 According to Perry, nuclear power will play a key role in Washington’s energy ties with partner countries. “The Trump administration thinks nuclear energy is very important domestically. It’s important internationally. The US will be leaning very forward into our partnerships with various countries and India is at the hub of that,” he said.
 
