In the latest episode of  , Gokuldham society gears up to celebrate Holi. Madhavi gets tea for Bhide, which turns out to be too hot. He tells her how has to arrange everything for Holi. 

  calls Mehta and reminds him of Holi Dahan they have in the evening. The latter, however, tells him he is flooded with work. If he doesn't finish, he would not be able to play Holi the next day. Jethalal asks him to get everything done, so that he is free to celebrate with them.
 
 After disconnecting the call, Jethalal thinks of playing Holi with  . Bapu Ji calls Jethalal and Tapu, they are all ready to go. They all assemble in their ethnic attires in the compound. 
 
 Meanwhile, Jethalal flirts with Babita and tells her how Holi is his favourite festival. Bhide calls them and they all participate in the ritual. Madhavi tells Popatlal that the occasion is very auspicious and whatever wish is made today would be fulfilled.
 
  gets a call from his office informing him that he is going to be part of an international conference in Chennai. Iyer tells everyone about it. They all rejoice and congratulate him. Popatlal gets sad wondering when he will have the chance to give them a good news.
 
 Iyer promises to throw a party for them. He again gets a call from his boss, who asks for a few photographs to be submitted else his attending the conference would be canceled. This gets Iyer worked up. He informs others about it. They all wonder how they would be able to get it done since it is too late and the next day everything is closed due to Holi. 
 
 Sodhi comes up with an idea. He calls his photographer friend, who promises to click his pictures by next afternoon. Iyer then tells others that he won't play Holi since it might change his appearance and he doesn't want to take a chance. When Iyer decides to back off, even Babita decides to accompany him. This makes Jethalal unhappy. 
 
 He tries to convince them that they play with natural colours. He remains adamant on Iyer and Babita celebrating with them. Bapu Ji, however, supports Iyer and tells Jetha not to force them to play Holi. 
 
