KOLKATA: Sheikh   (name changed), a youth in his early 30s and a member of the   building demolition squad, still shudders to think about the afternoon two years ago when he along with four others had gone to Bright Street to pull down parts of a four-storied illegal building.

 In spite of cop presence, a local promoter’s henchmen took control of the area and started a ruckus. “Soon, we were surrounded by the local toughs. Before the cops on duty asked for reinforcement from Karaya police station, goons compelled us to stop the work at gunpoint. By that time we could demolish only a small part of the roof that was built without sanction. We went back to th e   headquarters and reported the matter to the civic top brass,” he recounted.
 
 
  
 A senior official in the KMC building department said that over 50 unauthorized buildings have come up in areas around Park Circus and Park Street in the last two years. These areas include Bright Street, Shamsul Huda Street, Elliot Road and Mehedibagan. “We have been carrying out demolition drives in these areas. Sometimes we succeed but most of the times we make a retreat for want of security,” the KMC official said.
 
 Cops too are worried over illegal buildings in the area. They recounted how the promotersyndicate raj has led to a rise in crimes. Even petty criminals — some of whom have served murder terms — are now promoters in these areas. “Initial probe revealed that Sk   alias Bhola, a promoter who had earlier served murder term, had not made any investment. Instead, he had intimidated three other investors and demanded two flats in his name. In fact, the original landowners, like in this case, do not even know who the real promoters are. The area — located within 1.4 km from of the Ballygunge area and a kilometre from a Park Circus mall — is seeing a realty boom. The landowner will get a cut of the profit for those occupying rooms on rent until the flats are sold out. The rate is Rs 1.5 per square feet per month,” a source said.
 
 “The 300-350 square feet flats are being sold between Rs 3000-4000 per square feet. There are tenants, sub tenants, safe-custody tenants (those who occupy a house until it’s sold) and even shifting tenants (whose original houses are under construction by the same promoters). Each category has fixed rates and the promoter decides who will be allowed to stay,” said police.
 
