CHANDIGARH: The city’s booze stock has thinned and you have a fat chance of finding your favourite brand of beer and Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). Reason: the UT excise and taxation department is yet to determine ex-distillery   ( ) of liquor, causing shortage in the city. And if the department fails to act on time, there is likelihood of vends going dry.

 Most of the famous brands of beer are not available in large number in the 78 vends located in different parts of the city. There is also shortage of popular brands of IMFL such as Blenders Pride, Royal Stag and Signature whisky.
 
 Old liquor traders are surviving on leftover quota of last year. New traders, who bought vends in the recently held auction, are yet to start their business.
 
 According to the norms, liquor cannot be sold until EDP of different brand of liquor is determined by the department. The department was also late last year in determining the EDP.
 
 Wine Merchants Association president   said the delay on part of excise department in fixing EDP is costing liquor traders dear. “Most of the vends are facing shortage of beer and IMFL. If the department fails to fix the rates in next few days, vends will be left with nothing to sell,” said Satya Pal.
 
 UT assistant excise and taxation commissioner   said they are in process of fixing EDP and there will be no inconvenience to traders and consumers.
 
 STOCK CHECK
 
 SHORTAGE: Corona, Stella Artois, Budweiser, Carlsberg, Tuborg, Miller and Kingfisher
 
 Available: Haywards 5000, Fosters and Godfather
 
 BOX:
 
 Auction tomorrow
 
 The UT excise and taxation department will hold auction of 15 leftover liquor vends on April 4. The department has so far managed to sell 78 vends out of 93 and earned a revenue of Rs 266 crore against a reserve price of Rs 209 crore. Vends located in some of the prominent sectors — 7, 8, 9, 17, 20, 22, 27, 28, 40, Attawa, Manimajra, Mauli Jagran, Maloya and   – found no takers. The reserve price of the remaining 15 vends has been fixed at Rs 42 crore with the vend in Dhanas having the highest reserve price of Rs 5 crore. The reserve price of vends in Sector 7, Madhya Marg market, Sector 8 market, Sector 9 and Attawa have been fixed at Rs 3 crore each.
 
 
