GURUGRAM: The family of a retired armyman undergoing treatment for cancer has alleged that a doctor at the General   in Gurugram’s Sector 10 demanded Rs 5,000 from them for blood transfusion.

 Tejram, who was admitted to the government hospital on Saturday evening, had to eventually return home without the blood being administered. 
 
 Although the family is yet to lodge any formal complaint in the matter, the hospital authorities said they would probe the allegation and action would be taken against the doctor if he is found guilty.
 
 Tejram’s relatives, who had arranged for the blood from nearby  , went on a rampage at the hospital when the doctor allegedly refused to transfuse the blood. They vandalised the hospital corridor, creating a panic among other patients.
 
 Tejram, a Delhi resident who retired from the army’s civil cadre, was diagnosed with prostate cancer sometime back. He had been undergoing treatment at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, where doctors said his haemoglobin level was low.   was advised that he should get one unit of blood transfused.
 
 “We took my father to the   in Sector 10 in Gurugram around 5pm. The doctor on duty completed the necessary formalities and admitted him. We arranged for a unit of blood as advised but by then, the doctor on duty had changed as it was 10pm,” said Brajesh Kumar, Tejram’s son.
 
 The family alleged that though the next doctor on duty set up the cannula, he refused to go ahead with the transfusion until he was paid Rs 5,000. This led to a heated argument and a ruckus in the hospital compound.
 
 “It’s government hospital. We completed the paperwork and arranged for the blood on our own. Why should we pay any money and that too without a receipt? When we objected, the doctor on duty refused to go ahead with the procedure and asked us to leave,” said Brajesh.
 
 The family is yet to register a complaint against the doctor. “We have not received any complaint in this regard, but the matter has been brought to our notice. It is a very serious allegation as no doctor can deny service to a patient or demand money. In this case, a cancer patient has been denied blood transfusion. We will conduct an inquiry into the matter and take strict action if the doctor is found guilty,” said Dr  , a civil surgeon at the hospital.
 
 
