Amritsar: Having arrived here on a visa to Amritsar for 20 days, majority of Pakistan nationals are preparing to head home just three days into their pilgrimage.

 “How long can we offer prayers in gurdwaras and temples and eat langar. We need to visit other cities, especially Haridwar, but we don’t have visas,” said a Pakistani national who didn’t want to give his name, while talking to TOI on Wednesday.
 
 A 45-member Pakistani jatha (group of pilgrims) of Hindus and Sikhs had arrived here on March 12 on a visa for Amritsar. According to many pilgrims, they were assured of an onward visa to Haridwar and Delhi.
 
 Another Pakistani pilgrim said he had earlier visited India on a pilgrim visa twice or thrice but it was for the first time that he was given visa for Amritsar only. “In 2011, we visited more than six cities but now we were given visa to travel to Amritsar only,” he said, adding he along with his parents, would leave for Pakistan on Thursday.
 
 Paramjit Singh Chandok of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), who had extended invitation to Pakistani pilgrims, said, “We had extended them the invitation to visit Amritsar, Haridwar and Delhi but the Indian high commission in Pakistan had issued them visa to visit Amritsar only. We can’t do anything about it.”
 
 One more Pakistani pilgrim alleged harassment in the name of police verification. “We are supposed to go to Amritsar police commissioner office for registration. Everyone has to be present in person. It would have been better if the person concerned arrived in our serai (inn) and does the registration,” he said, adding that they were also fleeced by the taxi and auto-rickshaw drivers. “We are also going back. There is no fun staying in Amritsar for 20 days,” he said.
 
 However, Lalita Devsi, wife of missing Pakistani Devsi Babu, said she would continue to stay in India for the entire visa duration, expressing hope that Indian external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj might allow her to meet her in Delhi.
 
 
