NEW DELHI: A 67-year-old woman was found murdered at her house, with injuries on her head and slash wounds on her neck, in south   on Monday evening.

 The   was also found ransacked. Police suspect that a   and a kitchen knife may have been used for the murder. The possibility of a robbery motive has not been ruled out. Sources said that some people have been detained for questioning.
 
 The victim, Usha Devi, used to live with her husband  , a retired CPWD architect and 36-year-old daughter, who works at a private firm in south Delhi. The murder was discovered by her daughter, who found Devi lying in a pool of blood beside the dining table, when she returned from work.
 
 “A case of murder has been registered at the Hauz Khas police station based on the statement of the daughter and a probe is on to identify and arrest the accused,” said Romil Baaniya, DCP (south).
 
 Police said they received a call at 5pm from the victim’s daughter, who said Devi was lying unconscious at their house. When officers reached the spot, they found severe injuries on Devi’s forehead and neck. The entry to the house was found to be friendly. The woman seemed to have been attacked after a heated argument, police said.
 
 Preliminary probe suggested that the killer used a dumbbell to break the locks of the three almirahs in the bedroom and then ransacked the contents looking for something. Two box beds were also overturned. Kumar had gone for an evening walk at the time of the incident.
 
 Family members told police that they had two household helps — a man who stayed there and a woman, who used to come twice daily. The man had gone on a sudden leave two days ago. Police said he is also a suspect. Surprisingly, a security guard was also present at the gates when the incident happened.
 
 Officers suspect that someone known to the family may be involved in the murder, since no one had noticed any suspicious movement in the colony. Police are questioning the woman’s daughter to get more information. 
 
 Officers are also scanning CCTV footage of the area to identify the killer, who cops suspect may have fled by climbing over a wall.
 
 Neighbours said that the family was staying at the flat for the past 15 years. The body has been sent for an autopsy.
 
 
