Chennai: Substances in human bones have the potential to safely detect and kill cancerous cells in the body, show laboratory findings of a research study of Kochi-based   .

 During the study, scientists used   of calcium phosphate a bio-mineral found in bone doped with almost equally tiny sizes of iron atoms and guided (one way is to inject) them to liver tumours in laboratories. They applied heat to burn down the cancerous cells using radio frequency, a process called radio frequency ablation. “Calcium phosphate works as a good radio frequency agent. It’s designed in such a way that it’s visible on MRIs and CT scans. So, it is easier to diagnose   and safer to treat,” said institute director Dr Shantikumar Nair.
 
 While the process is commonly used by cardiologists to correct irregular heartbeats, scientists are developing it as a plausible treatment for cancers of the lungs and oesophagus as well. Now, the most common treatment for cancer involves radiation and use of gamma rays to kill cancer cells, but this may damage normal human cells and trigger side-effects. The alternative targeted therapy such as cyberknife is precise but expensive. “We wanted to find an accessible and cheaper treatment that can use RF microwaves. We stumbled up calcium phosphate, which is non-toxic and biodegradable. The body does not treat this as a foreign material,” said professor Manzoor Koyakutty of the institute.
 
 The discovery, scientists admit, was made by chance when they were doing experiments to optimise MRI imaging and RF properties of material containing calcium and found calcium getting heated when exposed to radio waves. They enhanced its hyper thermal properties by doping it with iron nanoparticles with magnetic properties. “The image guided therapy using this nano material is very attractive as it will help us treat cancer with precision,” said Dr Vijay Harish of the institute.
 
 The results of the study were published in Nature group of Journal, Scientific Reports. As of now, the scientists have proof they will be able to treat smaller tumours with the low heat by using these nano particles. “We will soon start animal experiments after which clinical trials will follow,” he said.
 
 
