NEW DELHI: It started with an experiment. Vasudha’s (name changed) friends used to have cannabis regularly and she also thought of trying it out once on her birthday. When did the experiment turn into a habit, she had no clue.

 The 19-year-old Delhi University student became so addicted to substance abuse that she and her friends rented out a flat in south Delhi where they would often hangout on weekends.
 
 Her parents did not like this but Vasudha was in no mood to give in. She would fight with them, and even get violent at times.
 
 Finally, she was taken to AIIMS where   diagnosed the teenager with psychosis, a condition characterised by loss of sense of reality among others. “She had to be admitted and put on medications for two weeks,” Dr Nand Kumar, professor of psychiatry at the institute told TOI.
 
 But Vasudha is not alone. Dr Kumar added more and more   are falling prey to substance abuse.
 
 Recently, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested students of top colleges in the city with over one kilogram of charas and LSD blotters.
 
 “For the last few months, NCB Delhi unit has been receiving inputs about   peddling and intense abuse of drugs around institutional areas,” an official said.
 
 The AIIMS doctors said the age of initiation of substance abuse has gone down from 17-19 years to 11-12 years, which is even more worrying.
 
 Dr Samir Parikh, director of department of mental health and behavioural sciences at Fortis Healthcare also confirmed the trend. “Most teenagers and youth take to substance abuse out of peer pressure. They identify it with gaining independence also,” he said. 
 
 According to Dr Parikh, lack of social values, parental control and the availability of information of drugs on internet is a major cause of increasing drug use among the youngsters. “Parents should talk openly to their wards about any substance abuse. With counselling and medications, if needed, the habit can be checked,” Dr Parikh said. Mental health   say smoking, drinking and use of cannabis may often prove to be a gateway for other more lethal drugs.
 
 “Often, those addicted to drugs don’t have the classical symptoms. They have sleep disorders, behavioural issues and decline in academic or professional excellence. Accepting there is a problem is the first and major step towards deaddiction,” said an expert.
 
 
