NEW DELHI: The   for   and   will   mean a   in  . Financial support for new courses or centres is also not ruled out under the norms, the ministry of human resources development said on Saturday.

 Reacting to a report in TOI on Saturday, the ministry said some of the points articulated by a section of teachers stem from an incorrect reading of the autonomy guidelines. These are, in fact, intended to free higher education from bureaucratic clutches and enhance academic freedom. The effort is to encourage institutions that are performing well to devise courses and also raise funds in view of the overall constraints on central and state budgets. 
 
  
  
 
 “The statements are an expression of fears, not facts,” said a statement by the ministry. “UGC regulations categorically state that the commission will continue to provide financial assistance as was being done before the grant of an autonomous status. This is contained in clause 3.10. The states will continue to provide the same funds to government and government-aided colleges as they had been providing before conferment of autonomous status,” said the ministry.
 
 It also clarified that the policy will not result in vacancies. It pointed out that Clause 5.3 asked for ensuring that “all sanctioned faculty positions are filled on a regular and ongoing basis and that a minimum of 85% posts remain filled at all time”. It pointed out that “financial assistance to autonomous colleges as per extant provisions of the scheme guidelines” means there is no change in current funding. 
 
 Addressing the concern that autonomy will leave it completely to institutions to raise their own resources for new courses or academic centres, the ministry said: “The regulation does not mention that colleges will not be provided any additional funds or they will have to generate internal resources for starting new courses.” The option of government support, said the ministry, is not ruled out. Colleges and universities that qualify for autonomy can send a revised demand in budget for UGC to consider, said the ministry. “Moreover, autonomous colleges need not pay affiliation fee to the parent university every year. A one-time fee can be paid at the time of conferment of autonomous status.”
 
 The ministry added that the rules do not touch on the administrative processes at all. “The autonomy regulation talks only about academic autonomy and has made no provision about administrative issues. The grievance about housing on campus cannot be linked to autonomy regulation.” This was a reference to a St Stephen’s teacher telling TOI that the housing pool was being reduced in the run-up to an autonomous status.
 
 A college with an autonomy status will not lose its university affiliation. “The autonomy regulations 2018 not only provide colleges with current levels of funding by UGC and state governments but also provide institutions flexibility and autonomy for creation of academic programmes and enhancing financial mobilization,” the ministry said.
 
 
