CHANDIGARH: When stalking migratory birds along the North-eastern banks of the   on a sunny winter day, tread very carefully. Lest the spectacle of a glistening, wheezing   in the reeds so blinds the bird-watcher that he does not heed to what lurks around the ankles. This is the season when Indian rock pythons emerge from   and bask in the sun like the wealthy elites of the Tricity fleeing to warm beaches and comfy cottages of Goa! 

 Despite the canopy of the pernicious weed Prosopis juliflora reducing sunlight in the lake's reserve forest, pythons are breeding and burrowing in good numbers at elevated spots along the banks at the lake's far-ends. They use burrows engineered by Indian crested porcupines, who are nature's primary excavators of soil. In turn, pythons are regarded as secondary excavators as they adopt and transform porcupine burrows to their mega-serpentine requirements. Burrows are engineered shelters providing refuge and protection against temperature extremes, fire and predation.
 
 Very little was known about the ecology and burrow systems of pythons and associated species until researchers from the   Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON),  , conducted field studies over nine years at Keoladeo National Park, Bharatpur, where python sightings are guaranteed for tourists. The researchers, who included Dr HN Kumara, Aditi Mukherjee, Rajan Pilakandy, Shirish Manchi, C. Ramesh and late Subramanian Bhupathy, deployed standard study tools such as overground camera traps along with the first-ever use of burrow video cameras ( ). 
 
 The BVCs fetched live footage of multiple species sharing a single-burrow system, comprising inter-connected chambers. The species included pythons, porcupines, bats, monitor lizards, jackals and geckos living in mutual tolerance, barring skirmishes of porcupines and pythons with breeding jackals.
 
 What does that study tell us about a python's burrow and basking habits? "Pythons come out at about 9.30am and bask till 1pm or so. They return to the burrow for some time and then again emerge for basking till sunset. The may bask coiled or in a more linear fashion. Part of the basking is in direct sunlight, while some time is spent in shaded spots among bushes. We may think there is one python to a burrow but that is not so. There may be groups of pythons living inside. The big specimens will come out to bask and leave smaller ones inside due to predator threat. After absorbing heat, the big specimens will go inside and inter-coil with others to transmit body heat. This is known as thermo-regulation," Mukherjee told TOI.
 
 
