GURUGRAM: Almost a year after   (NGT) directed the department of urban local bodies (ULB) to come up with a “green” plan for the city,   has started work on it.

 MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav told TOI Gurugram   will be ready by next week.
 
 “We’ll be taking up a lot of green work. The plan covers beautification, tree plantation and   of public spaces, intersections such as parks, green belts, spaces along roads and under flyovers,” said Yadav. 
 
 Additional chief secretary Anand Mohan Sharan said, “The plan should be ready by next week. We’re simultaneously working on developing similar plans for other cities in the state.” In one of its orders, NGT had asked the Haryana ULB to provide details of the greening plan for NCR districts of Gurugram and Faridabad. 
 
 Officials said the bigger objective of the project is to ensure there are no dry patches, to prevent accumulation of dust or dirt, and reduce the city’s high pollution levels.
 
 Yadav added MCG will be roping in industries, NGOs, developers and corporates to help them out. A standard design will be developed by MCG and provided to those parties who are interested in the project. The latter can then execute it and ensure its maintenance.
 
 “In case any party suggests changes in the project, we can tweak it accordingly. We’ve already held discussions in this regard with a few parties, and observed they are interested in picking up patches in the vicinity of their offices,” said Yadav.
 
 In case no party is interested in taking up particular patches, the corporation will do the work itself. Given the scale of work, outside parties will be roped in for areas where MCG is solely responsible for upkeep. A notice asking for ‘expression of interest’ will be soon floated by MCG and interested parties can submit their proposals based on that. 
 
 The cost of the project hasn not been ascertained yet. An allocation of Rs 1,230 crore has been made, under the head of environmental works, in MCG’s 2018-19 budget. This amount, though, also covers construction of roads, bridges, drains and bunds. 
 
 Sources within the corporation said the green plan comes long after NGT asked ULB to address the issue of pollution in NCR cities. “The green court had directed ULB around a year back, along with directions on ways to tackle disposal of construction waste,” said a senior MCG official.
 
 
