NEW DELHI: “Development for others is turning our lives into hell,” grumbled Pinki, carrying her two-month-old niece past the malodorous overflow around their house. Sometimes, she has to use her neighbour’s terrace to enter the house. More than 500 families in the F and H blocks in south Delhi’s Aya Nagar   have been struggling with the dark green pool around their homes for months now.

 With the prospect worsening because more sewer lines are being linked with the drain near these houses, people sense an impending disaster. “We are afraid that if no solution is found before the monsoons, many houses will collapse,” said RP Sharma, pointing at the cracks developing in his under-construction house.
 
 The drain originating in the Sunday bazar area was laid two years ago to carry the monsoon runoff into a natural pond. But with more and more people linking their sewage outlets to it, the foul   has started flowing into the houses. Rajni Jha, who lives close to the mouth of the drain, protested, “When the drain behind our house started bringing sewage, we spent lakhs of rupees to set up walls and add pipes to the main drain, but everything seems to have been in vain.” 
 
 In fact, many families have already abandoned their homes. “Arjun Rawat and his family, our neighbours, left a year ago after the foundation of their houses got submerged in sewage and threatened the whole structure,” said Urmila Devi, who herself is trying to save her house, as other are too, by dumping debris dumped between the festering pool and her home.
 
 “Can this be the capital of India? Families with houses in F and H blocks and Paras Colony closest to the cesspool usually desert their houses for few months during the rainy season,” complained Ramesh Yadav, who moved into the area six years ago. 
 
 Government official said that a pump has been placed nearby by the flood department as a temporary solution, but the residents claimed that the pump worked only in dire situations, remaining non-functional most of the time. While Ved Pal, the area councillor, blamed the municipal corporation and the flood department for laying down two drains with no discharge points, the civic officials retorted that people joined sewage lines to the rainwater drains, leading to the flooding of the water body.
 
 The residents want either a permanent pump house set up or the drain outlet moved to another site. “There’s a multiplicity of departments, so we have requested the district magistrate for a joint meeting of all agencies concerned,” Ved Pal said.
 
 
