NEW DELHI: The   may finally be moving towards reforming its constitution. A day before the Supreme Court hearing on suggestions from office-bearers regarding implementation of constitutional reforms, acting secretary   on Thursday declared that 12 state units out of 37 were on the same page regarding four suggested changes in the recommendations of the Justice RM Lodha committee.

 
 
 
 These states have submitted the common four-point suggestion to   Gopal Subramanium. According to Choudhary, the court should consider doing away with the cooling-off period of three years, the distribution of power between elected officials and professionals, constitution of the apex council and the one-state-one-vote clause, which the SC has already agreed to revisit.
 
 
 
 The 12 state units are Andhra, Assam, Goa, Jharkhand, Kerala, Mumbai, Rajasthan, Railways, Tripura, Universities, Uttar Pradesh are Vidarbha.
 
 The three-member SC bench headed by CJI Deepak Mishra had on May 1 instructed all BCCI affiliated units to file suggestions with regards to clauses they thought could not be implemented.
 
 However, apprehensions have emerged about the nature of changes listed by Choudhary, as other factions are still uncomfortable with the 70-year age cap on officials. Choudhary, with support of these 12 associations, also suggested having six representatives in the apex council. “The apex council as presently contemplated has three office bearers, which will go up to five,” Choudhary said.
 
 “There will be one who represents the board, which will be 37 members, and two for players. The country is very, very large, therefore my submission is that each zone including a separate zone from northeast, so six representatives.”
 
 As far as the apex council is concerned, there are suggestions to have zonal representatives on a rotation policy to avoid creating administrative monopolies.
 
 However, a BCCI member told TOI: “Suppose a candidate with a strong political clout contests an election and everyone in the board feels that only a veteran administrator who is just past 70 could stop him, what will the board do then? Every member is looking after his own interests of coming back in the board once elections are done. Certain factions don’t want veteran administrators to return.”
 
 Sources said that Choudhary’s suggestions revolve around the fact the board has not seen many office-bearers in their 70s, barring   coming back in 2015 due to a crisis. “With the age cap of 70 and nine-year term in office, you don’t need a cooling off. Forcing cooling off could harm the continuity of the board,” Choudhary said.
 
