NEW DELHI:   in the   will soon sport vibrant colours that will differentiate them from other vehicles on the roads. The iconic kaali-peeli taxis of Delhi, however, would retain their black-and-yellow livery.

 Delhi government is finalising a City Taxi Scheme, aimed at regulating taxis in the capital, including those operated by app-based cab aggregators. “All taxis operating in the city will have to register with the transport department when the scheme comes into effect,” announced a transport department official. “Once the cabs are registered, we are planning for them to sport a distinct colour that will differentiate them from other vehicles on the road.”
 
 The official added that the plan was still at the initial stage and no decision had been taken on whether the entire body of the cab would have to be painted in the colour chosen for them or it would only require a panel or bumpers of that colour. 
 
 At present, most cabs running under the app-based aggregator platform are white in colour.
 
 “The colour scheme is yet to be finalised, but we are toying with the idea of using the yellow and light green seen on autorickshaws,” he said. “The criteria for choosing the colour would be a distinct look and visibility at a distance for passenger ease.”
 
 The transport department intends to leave the kaali-peeli taxis operating in the city and numbering around 40,000 out of the scheme. “These black-and-yellow taxis are iconic of Delhi and have sported those colours historically. The colours are also quite popular with tourists visiting the city and we have decided not to change them,” he said. The   also recently met and requested senior transport department officials to retain the existing colours for the standard taxis of the capital, the association’s president, Sanjay Samrat, disclosed.
 
 The draft City Taxi Scheme is now being examined and vetted by a high-powered panel comprising Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot, PWD minister Satyendar Jain, Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi vice-chairperson Ashish Khetan, chief secretary Anshu Prakash and principal secretary (finance) SN Sahai.
 
 
