NAGPUR: Review sessions often provide people an opportunity to hear from interpreters niceties of a book and take a leaf out of it which can bring a positive change in life. One such session was organized by   (IBRC), its 35th monthly edition, at Excel Interior Design Institute, Ravindra Nagar, on Saturday. 

 A reviewer, irrespective of age, can interpret and experience what the book offers to its readers in IBRC sessions.
 
 Commenting on ‘Good Night Stories for Rebel Girls’, written by   and Francesca Cavallo,   Lanjewar explained the authors’ motive behind writing the book. “Stories we tell our girls usually talk of a woman’s well-being that is dependent on a prince, magic, an event, a wizard or a witch and the likes”. 
 
 However, Lanjewar, an engineer, said he prefers to read out books to his four-year-old daughter that tell inspirational life stories of extraordinary women at bedtime so that she could start exploring her self since childhood and does not get lost in dreamland. He termed ‘Good Night Stories for Rebel Girls’ as a perfect narrative for girls. He appreciated the stunning and vibrant portrayals in the book which attract children.
 
 Speaking about what drove him to buy the book, Nikhil said, “Laws for empowerment of women in our country are being implemented as there is some issue. It’s all reactive. I needed something proactive, something that can change things from within and sought to know why these problems exist. This book can play a great role in doing that.”
 
 Durriya Akolawala, a professor of English, discussed ‘Tuesdays with Morrie’, penned by Mitch Albom. It is a story of a professor and his student who failed to keep in touch with him. “A friend recommended this book to me which I read during a 20-hour train journey. When I alighted, I was a changed person in many aspects of life. This book has that power to make an impact,” she said.
 
 She briefly spoke on life lessons and morals about relationships, forgiveness, regret, family, death and more, taught as part of conversations that the characters had in the book.
 
 Sheetal Dhopte, director of IBRC, told TOI that the club was opened with the sole purpose of promoting reading and for the love of it.  , co-founder, was present.
 
 
