Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com and Shrishti.Bhatia@timesgroup.com

 "This city is just amazing. I absolutely love Delhi," said  , while roaming about on the streets of   with us, during his recent visit. The actor-anchor shared his experiences and love for the weather and the people here. He also talked about how extravagant the weddings and events are in Delhi. "Yahan ka khaana, log aur shaadiyan are amazing," he said.
 
  
 The actor roamed about on the streets wearing a jacket and boots, and was all praises for Delhi’s soothing winter breeze. "I wish Mumbai had weather like this. This place is so amazing in winters, except that the summers are too extreme here. The winter breeze with the sun feels great."
 
 
  
  Rithvik Dhanjani (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
 "You guys are a bunch of lucky people! The food on every street here is mouthwatering. All the foodies in Delhi are blessed," said Rithvik as he recalled a memory of feasting on some kebabs at Chanakyapuri. "There is this small shop I went to with a friend. This tiny shop had a huge line outside but those kebabs with paranthe is the best thing Delhi has ever given me till date," he added.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Turns out, it is not just Delhi’s food that Rithvik is fond of. The actor expressed his love for Delhi’s parties and how they’re better than Mumbai’s. Rithvik also said that he comes to the city only to party. "Besides food, the fondest memory I have is of Hauz Khas, the party hub. I went there once when I came here for the promotion of a show. I may have mentioned somewhere that I was going to visit Hauz Khas and a sweetheart fan ended up there. She was a schoolkid and had brought me this handmade booklet. How sweet the gesture was," Rithvik said.
 
  "I have partied in Delhi at so many places. I party here more than I usually do in Mumbai. I feel much freer. Delhi is very happening. One of the reasons I feel that way is because I only come here to party," Rithvik added.
 
  
  
 
  
 Rithvik also said that although most people in Delhi are "badey dilwaale," he also added that there are some who don’t try and make a conversation. "There is so much in Delhi to grasp. So much love and warmth. Though I have met people who behave otherwise also. They are the 'high-class' people. The ones who think too highly of themselves to initiate a conversation. But generally, Dilliwaale badey dilwaale hotey hain. The fans here always come forward to show love and are interactive. So, the fact that Delhiites are loud is awesome."
 
  
  
 
  
 
 When we asked him about his appearances in Delhi, the actor said, "Yaar, sach bataun, don’t take me wrong, but Dilliwaalon ke pass bahut paisa hai. There was one wedding I performed at. It was unreal! They had a whole ' ' set-up in Sainik Farms! They had actually built up the place in their house. It was splendid."
 
  
 When we asked him what he loves the most – being an actor, anchor or a dancer – Rithvik prompt replied, "acting". He added, "I have anchored many shows but acting will always be my first love followed by dancing. I try to keep my performances varied. Like dancing defines me, it is something I believe I was born to do. It is my therapy. I have been dancing since a very early age. For anchoring, I feel every show has it own DNA". He also told us that Hrithik Roshan is his favourite dancer, "Maine unko copy karke kitne dance competition jeete hain." Rithvik signed off.
 
  – Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com and Shrishti.Bhatia@timesgroup.com
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
