CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) accused finance minister Manpreet Badal of turning his reply on the budget speech into a “cheap and vulgar rant” against his “former mentor and political guru”, former CM Parkash Singh Badal.

 SAD continued with its protest in the well of the   while he went on with his speech. Akali leaders held up posters to make allegations against a close relative of Manpreet, making the minister respond with a personal jibe at  . Tempers ran high as the two could be seen pointing figures at each other.
 
 Manpreet made some personal attacks about his estranged uncle (Badal) and Majithia family, which did not go down well with members of the opposition party. Manpreet asked   to listen to what he said. “They are looking for excuses to escape... I can say a lot if you are willing to listen. Those who used government finances are pointing fingers at me. They say I cannot run finance, I say I don’t now how to run buses and hotels,” he said. 
 
 As Manpreet took on the Akalis, minister for local bodies Navjot Singh Sidhu could be seen appreciating him. 
 
 As unruly scenes continued, the House was adjourned for 20 minutes. Manpreet said the former CM got treated in the US and the hospital bill was paid out of state exchequer. He added that a car gifted by Majithia family to their daughter was on bank loan.
 
 Later, talking to media persons, SAD legislators Sharanjit Dhillon, Pawan Kumar Teenu and   said never before in the history of the assembly had a finance minister said he would use the time given to him to reply to the debate on the budget to settle petty personal scores. “The FM even stooped down to commenting on last rites of his paternal aunt as well as other family issues,” they said.
 
 Akali leaders said they were shocked that Manpreet did not speak about the plight of farmers and farm labourers and refused pleas to waive their entire loan. “The FM also refused to give any relief to youth or employees. He evaded answers to problems being faced by the Bathinda refinery and the IAF station,” they said.
 
 
