NAGPUR: Three farmers have moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court challenging the government’s decision to hand over their agricultural land, acquired for an irrigation project, to Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan (BVM) for construction of a school at Koradi.

 On Monday, the HC issued notices to   through its chief engineer at Koradi, collector, and BVM director, asking them to reply within two weeks. A PIL has already been filed on the same issue, and it may be clubbed with this case. The proposed school is allegedly run by a society promoted by   governor Banwarilal Purohit, and has been set up with the efforts of energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule in his constituency.
 
 The petitioners, through counsel M D  , contended that their land measuring over 100 acre at   had been acquired for tail tank of Pench project, way back in 1972. It was forcefully taken for the government project, under Section 4 of Land Acquisition Act, 1894. As a result, they became jobless and landless.
 
 The land was later transferred to erstwhile Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB) on February 7, 2006, which defeated the entire purpose of acquiring it. MSEB, in turn, allegedly handed over about 10 acre to the society to start the BVM school. “BVM is a private entity, engaged in the business of running school on ‘no grant basis’. Run as per the CBSE pattern by a private management, it is not controlled by the state government. It charges exorbitant fee, in excess of Rs50,000, from students,” the petitioners claimed, adding that their consent was not taken by the government before transferring land to   and BVM.
 
 They argued that it’s a clear misuse of the land acquired for public purpose, but handed over to private society running school on commercial basis. “The area of BVM’s main branch at Civil Lines is hardly two acres while in   branch, it’s just one acre. Therefore, granting 10 acre for a school is difficult to digest,” they said.
 
 They demanded return of their land, so they could restart farming, which is their only source of income, the petitioners said.
 
 
