SURAT: With an objective to preserve the integrity,   and to safeguard  , nine leading diamond industry organizations and jewellery associations in the world, including   (GJEPC), have jointly released the Diamond Terminology Guideline, which contains recommendations for describing diamonds and synthetic diamonds. 

 The Guideline, based on ISO standards and   (CIBJO) Diamond Blue Book, is intended to set universal standard for communicating about diamonds and their laboratory-grown counterparts.
 
 As per international guidelines, ‘diamond’ and ‘gemstone’ implies a sparkler which is of natural origin. The industry should use ‘synthetic’, ‘laboratory-grown’ or ‘laboratory-created’ and should avoid the terms ‘real’, ‘genuine’ and ‘authentic’ when describing man-made products.
 
 “Protecting consumer confidence is of paramount importance to the long-term success of our industry,” World Jewellery Confederation (CIBJO) president Gaetano Cavalieri was quoted by the US-based Rapaport group as saying.
 
 “The Diamond Terminology Guideline is an important tool in achieving this by helping standardize the terminology used to clearly distinguish between diamonds and synthetic diamonds, in all communications, among ourselves and with our customers,” Cavalieri added.
 
 GJEPC regional chairman Dinesh Navadiya said, “India is the hub of manufacturing natural diamonds mined from beneath the earth. Gradually, the lab-grown diamonds have made penetration into the consumer market. The industry can operate without fear if the lab-grown diamonds are sold with their real disclosure to the consumers. The diamond terminology will go a long way in protecting the consumer confidence and the image of Indian diamond industry.”
 
 “It is our duty to develop a clear and unambiguous nomenclature for the benefit of the consumers,” AWDC president Stephane Fischler said. “Consumers must have access to clear information. If we are to preserve the integrity, value and legacy of diamonds and our industry, it is imperative that we safeguard consumer confidence in our beautiful product. The Diamond Terminology Guideline is a significant step in this direction.”
 
 
