Mumbai:   is the former risk officer at   who blew the whistle on the lender’s undisclosed credit derivative losses. He also argued for recovering bonuses from those responsible for the loss. When the   ( ) chose to end the matter with a $55-million fine on Deutsche Bank, Ben-Artzi stood by his principles and rejected his share of 15% of the penalty — which amounted to more than $8 million — on the grounds that justice was not served and the perpetrators had got away. A PhD in mathematics from NYU, Ben-Artzi is currently involved with a number of fintech startups that aim to make the world of finance better for all stakeholders. In an interview with TOI, he speaks of how having regulators without industry experience is a good thing...

 What happened at Deutsche Bank?
 
 In the ’90s, Deutsche Bank was an old-fashioned state bank. And then when it became global, and with the repeal of the  , it became the world’s largest bank. I think they brought in many traders, many risk takers and entered businesses the bank was not familiar with. Up until the crisis, a lot of it wasn’t corruption but recklessness. There was also a strong conflict of interest between the risk takers — which are the bank’s management, traders and sales people — versus the long-term stakeholders, who are shareholders and employees as well as bondholders and taxpayers. After the crisis, it seems Deutsche Bank was like   and would have collapsed had they accounted honestly for their (derivative) positions. The behaviour after seemed to be: “We will do whatever it takes to push the losses onto the investors who buy the bank’s shares after the crisis and to the next generation of leaders of the bank and we are going to collect our bonuses and leave.” There was a lot of law-breaking there, and there was corruption. There were some activities that were illegal even without relation to the crisis. The bank’s management managed to convince German regulators that they were not to blame for the   and it was just mid-level people. I find that hard to believe.
 
 What made you so disappointed with the outcome of the SEC investigation into the derivatives scandal that you refused the SEC reward?
 
 As we progressed into the investigations, it was clear that the higher you went in both the gatekeeping structure within the bank and among the regulators — the SEC, the NY attorney general and others — there was an impression that at the top, there was not much of a desire to move forward and enforce the law. I saw the top attorney in charge of the investigation within Deutsche Bank move to become chief counsel of SEC. The general counsel of Deutsche Bank when I was there had previously been head of enforcement at the SEC, and his protégé at Deutsche Bank — before the crisis — became head of enforcement immediately after the crisis. So there was an incestuous relationship. Even though these attorneys recuse themselves at the SEC, it was clear that their conflicts of interest influenced what was going below even if they were not directly involved. Finally, the ‘justice’ was done and the fine was handed out to DB. Justice here was penalising the victims — the shareholders of DB.
 
  This is a wider phenomenon we have seen since the financial crisis. Other stakeholders — whether it is shareholders, bondholders, home-owners — everyone else pays the price. I felt this was justice upside down and I did not want to be part of it. The analogy in my head was: I saw a crime, I called the police and when the cops showed up, it turned out to be the robber who robbed the victim once again and was trying to pay me hush money.
 
 So structurally or culturally, there was no change even after the investigations?
 
 I haven’t seen any evidence of a reform of US law enforcement from the outside. Indeed, one of the lawyers I just mentioned — who was head of enforcement in the SEC after the crisis and during whose tenure most executives walked away unscathed — very recently became one of the top white-collar enforcement prosecutors in US.
 
 You have fought for claw-back of banker bonuses at DB. Yet, there have been arguments against claw-back on the grounds that they are largely populist and discourage talented people coming to distressed institutions, particularly when the CEOs are far removed from the frauds...
 
 I believe the claw-backs should apply to the leaders of the company at the time of the violations, not those who are brought in to clean up the mess. Part of the CEO’s job is to make sure that even when they are so far removed, they put in place the mechanisms to make sure that risk-taking is controlled and that there is a compliance function that monitors what employees do. So I absolutely believe that claw-backs should be a significant part of the executive’s incentive structure. I don’t think that is enough by itself, but I think it is necessary. There are too many instances where the executive’s point of view becomes short-term because they are based on short-term stock performance, and that should not be the case.
 
 This to and fro movement (of executives) from regulators to industry... Do you see this as a frailty of the developed markets?
 
 I think it is not illegal, but it has become soft corruption in developed markets. Now you don’t bribe with a suitcase full of cash, you just promise a job later. You don’t even need to promise a job as all know they will get one and play along. This is a deep illness of developed societies. In the US, it is especially bad. I hear that it is a problem in Europe. In Israel, it exists as well, with negative effects in some cases, though some gatekeepers have shown remarkable loyalty to public interest. Ultimately, we know it is a problem because we have seen the results — rampant misbehaviour, few consequences.
 
 In India, regulators are criticised for sitting in ivory towers and not having much industry experience...
 
 I agree there is some cost to having regulators with less business experience. But whatever cost is incurred by having regulators with less expertise in financial markets are far outweighed by the benefits of having independent and honest regulators. Also, experts from corporations and academia are generally enthusiastic about educating regulators, so this problem is exaggerated by those with an interest in maintaining the current system.
 
 Do you think that present corporate structures do not support whistleblowing because it shows everyone in bad light? What can be done to improve things?
 
 I think the solution is not in laws. The US has great laws in place. The   one is just the most recent. They have a whole array of laws implemented over centuries and it is the most advanced country when it comes to laws. But the gatekeepers are conflicted. You do not want whistleblowers for their own sake, you want whistleblowers for reforms and so that there are consequences for bad actors. That has not happened. The solution is to make sure that within the corporation and also at the state level, you have independent gatekeepers who would embrace whistleblowers and protect them.
 
 How did it work for you?
 
 The laws state that a   cannot be fired, but Deutsche Bank fired me anyway. But even if I stayed, it would have been because it creates a very bad atmosphere. I think the solution is for society to provide a public comptroller framework for whistleblowers to work. Usually, a whistleblower is someone who feels very strongly about things being done the proper way, or at least what the whistleblower thinks is the proper way. I think this should be done in a more organised way so that whistleblowers can be plugged into similar roles. Even if Wall Street banks would not be comfortable hiring a whistleblower, maybe the whistleblower can be given a new career option benefiting the public, so that they don’t really need to be worried about being blackballed within their industry. 
 
 India has seen a recent fraud at Punjab National Bank… 
 
 This is not the kind of fraud that I had encountered. In my case, it was what accounting fraud experts would like to call ‘control fraud’. Essentially, the executives would use their positions to defraud the institutions themselves. That is where the gatekeepers should come in and that’s where they failed. Unfortunately, it has been happening too often in developed economies. This is the story of the financial crisis really and it is a structural problem. It is a problem of co-opted gatekeepers, it is a problem of misaligned incentives, and it is a problem of agency. 
 
 Banks are in the business of taking risks. Where does a whistleblower draw the line? It is not easy to manage risk, and losses can happen in the normal course of business. The question is whether the bank had the right structures in place to evaluate and monitor the risk-takers. One of the problems in banks was that risk managers moved to become risk-takers like traders or sales people and that is not a good thing. If you are a risk manager, you should stay as a risk manager and be properly rewarded for it rather than be lured to constantly think about your next step and your career as moving on to trading because that is where the money is. Because then you are seeking to curry favours from the traders and let them take on unnecessary and uncontrolled risks. And when losses do happen, it is imperative that they are acknowledged, not swept under the rug.
 
 
