HUBBALLI: Activists demanding release of water from   river in Goa decided to urge CM Siddaramaiah to lead an all-party delegation to PM   amid a bandh called by the BJP in   town of Gadag district on Wednesday. The bandh passed off peacefully.

 The saffron party was protesting the Goa Congress’ opposition to CM Manohar Parrikar’s letter to B S Yeddyurappa agreeing to consider Karnataka’s demand for drinking water. BJP workers alleged that though Parrikar was willing to solve the water dispute, the Goa   was not.
 
 Business establishments, schools, colleges and banks remained shut and a few vehicles plied on the roads. Commuters struggled to reach their destination as there was no bus service till the evening. Gadag superintendent of police Santosh Babu said no untoward incident was reported and the town returned to normalcy in the evening.
 
 Former ministers Basavaraj Bommai and C C Patil, MLC S V Sankanur, former legislator Kalakappa Bandi and others took part in the protest. Patil said the Mahadayi issue was handed over to the tribunal by the UPA government. “However, Yeddyurappa tried to solve the issue out of the tribunal. The Congress government in the state has opposed the move. To condemn this, the bandh has been called. I urge CM Siddaramaiah to solve the issue by convincing Congress leaders in Goa,” Patil said.
 
 At the meeting, Mahadayi activists led by Veeresh Sobaradamath decided to renew their demand. Shankar Ambali, a close aide of Sobaradamath, told TOI that it was resolved to urge CM Siddaramaiah to take an all-party delegation to PM Modi and convince him to settle the matter out of the tribunal. “The delegation should be taken by February 22 as the final hearing will be held at the tribunal till that day. The issue needs to be settled out of the tribunal by then. If it is not possible, the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues should take us to New Delhi and stage a dharna in front of the PM’s house. If the CM fails to do so, we will stage a dharna in front of the CM’s house in Bengaluru,” Ambali warned.
 
 
