HYDERABAD: Day after twin devastating fires swept through the pharma hub in  , a cloud of smoke and stench hangs heavy at ground zero -  . The area, which is sitting on a tinder box, wore a deserted look on Friday after it was jolted again late Friday night by a second blast which triggered a blaze around 11.30pm. 

 Drums with inflammable material and chemicals lay on the ground at  , amidst charred wreckage while a handful of workers were seen cleaning the area. "Even after drums exploded last night, chemicals are still trickling down. A mere spark can trigger another explosion. We are scared to clean after twin explosions rocked the factory," said a worker.
 
 
  
 
 A major blaze tore through the factory on Friday morning in the pharma unit during unloading of two chemical tanks from trucks. Hours after the situation was brought under control, another explosion in the same unit was triggered by a chemical reaction, said fire personnel.
 
 "Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot. It took five hours to douse the fire. We suspect 3 crore worth property has been damaged. When the second blast took place, there were no workers present and there were no casualties or injuries," said GV Prasad, assistant district officer (ADFO) of   district. 
 
 A fire official said, the area is vulnerable to fire as chemical and pharma factories have no safeguards. Officials can do nothing to regulate the local factories as buildings below 15m don't come under mandatory fire safety norms.
 
 "In 2016, 11 fires raged through Jeedimetla industrial area. The number rose to 32 in 2017. This, because factory managements don't follow rules or take fire-safety measures. There are residential areas in the proximity of the chemical hub," said Prasad. Police and factory owners are yet to visit the pharma unit, where the explosion took place.
 
 "We have come to inspect the area inside the factory. However, the explosion took place on the second floor of the building at night. Fire experts of cops are yet to inspect the site. Once the area is cleared, we may visit the area. While 200 drums were shifted out of the area last night, one drum filled with ethyl acetate, a flammable solvent is yet to be shifted," said T  , assistant commissioner of police, Balapur, who visited the pharma unit on Saturday. The owner of   is away and has not come to the factory.
 
 "The condition of workers who suffered burns is still critical. The company has paid 8 lakh towards their medical treatment and will provide compensation," said the  . Two firemen and bike fire-fighters have been deployed in the area. 
 
 
