In the latest episode of Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah,   calls Tapu and asks him to give a clarification to Bhide. Tapu tells them that if   uncle feels he had secretly taken the scooter out for a ride at night, then he has nothing to say. Jethalal praises his son’s innocence and blames Bhide of accusing him unnecessarily. 

 
 Rest of the members of the Gokuldham society along with Champak Chacha try to convince Bhide that he could have been mistaken about the kilometres and the fuel, but he isn’t convinced. He declares that he’d stay up all night to check who is doing the mischief. They all tell him to do as he desires and leave for work. Tapu, Gogi and Goli decide to go the club house and plan their next move. 
 
 While Gogi and Goli want to give up the mission of learning how to drive, Tapu tells them not to lose heart. He instructs Gogi and Goli that they will take out Sakharam (the scooter) at night. But this time around they will be more careful. They decide to take note of the kilometres and the petrol. They plan to clean it and get the fuel filled before keeping it back. 
 
 At work, Jethalal sees Baga sleeping beside the refrigerator. The former tries to connect with Nattu Kaka, but his number is not reachable. He goes to wake up Baga and then scolds him for sleeping at work. Nattu Kaka enters and asks Jethalal why he is upset. The latter tells him the reason, which makes Nattu Kaka scold Baga. 
 
 Nattu Kaka then recalls that Baga had gone to visit Bawri’s uncle at the hospital at night. He tells the same to Jethalal but then suddenly Baga begins to cry. He tells them he cannot reveal the reason why he is crying. But he blames Jethalal for it. Nattu Kaka encourages him to speak the truth. Baga tells him that since Jethalal is not increasing his salary he isn’t able to materialise his dream of marrying Bawri. Jethalal tells him not to act smart and resume work. Baga thinks he could save himself this time, but he has no idea of what’s in store for him that night.
 
