BENGALURU: For the first time in the long history of the Mahamastakabhisheka of   at  , the reins of the mega-event are in the hands of a woman.

  Jain, 70, the national president of Bharatvarsheeya Digamber Jain   and a grandmother of four, has been quietly working for the past two years to make the largest Jain congregation a resounding success. Sarita is the first woman from the community to head the Mahamastakabisheka Mahatsav in the last thousand years.
 
 
 “I consider myself very lucky,” Sarita told TOI. “We are working hard for the Mahamastakabisheka, the head anointing ceremony performed once in 12 years to the monolithic statue of Lord Bahubali.” She and her team has been working under the guidance of guruji Sri Charukeerthi Bhattarakha Swamiji.
 
 The mantle of organizing the event fell on Sarita by virtue of her elevation as the head of Teerthkshetra Committee in 2016. The committee is entrusted with the job of protecting and preserving Jain heritage centres across the country. Interestingly, she is also the first woman to head the Teerthkshetra Committee, a Jain social service organization, in over 125 years.
 
 When asked about new initiatives related to the event, Sarita, whose organizational tasks include liaising with community members and the state government, said: “Traditions remain unchanged, but what we have incorporated in a major way this time is technology.”
 
 Some of these elements include: Roping in a Germanbased company to construct the scaffolding for the statue by using the ring-and-lock system; installation of elevators; bike rental platforms; temporary townships with scientific waste disposal systems and chopper rides. The organizers expect over 40 lakh devotees to visit Shravanabelagola during the event.
 
 On how the community has responded to her being head of the Mastakabishekha Mahotsav, Sarita said: “There was no bias or discrimination at any point. No one was unhappy with me and the men have worked with me to make it a grand affair. It has been a great learning experience for me too.”
 
 Sarita praised the state government for responding positively to issues like logistics and other arrangements for the event. She is the wife of businessman Mahendra Kumar Jain.
 
