Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has cited a blocked footpath to start the process to shift a huge drinking water  , which will incidentally also clear the entrance to two residential plots. Also, the civic body has not initiated any process to fix responsibility on officers for the badly laid pipeline, which will cost over Rs1 crore to shift.

 NMC water works department has tabled a proposal before the standing committee seeking administrative approval to spend Rs1.02 crore on shifting the pipeline, and pay around Rs2 lakh fee to the consultant. The committee will take a decision on this in its meeting on January 30.
 
 TOI had, on September 12, 2017, reported that NMC was planning to shift the pipeline following pressure from a builder. After TOI’s story, the water works department kept the plan on hold. But, the department has again started the process to shift the pipeline.
 
 If cleared by the standing committee, the department will float tenders for appointment of private agency and execution of works.
 
 NMC had laid the 1,000mm diameter pipeline from Pench-IV water treatment plant to elevated service reservoirs in South Nagpur under the central government’s JNNURM scheme. The pipeline was laid along RPTS Road four years ago. A nullah flows from Neeri’s premises, crossing the two residential open plots towards Wardha Road, passing underneath RPTS Road. Instead of laying the pipeline below the nullah, it was laid above over the footpath. Thus, the pipeline is blocking the entrance to the plots to some extent.
 
 Owner of the plots, Dr Ashish Bhiwapurkar, had asked the department to shift the pipeline over two years ago. The department started to chalk out a plan following pressure from an influential builder.
 
 Surprisingly, the department’s proposal says, “Pipeline is going over the footpath and causing obstacles. Need is to shift the pipeline below nullah through pushing technology.”
 
 The footpath in question is not in use ever since it was laid under IRDP project in 2001.
 
 Though this is a clear case of improper planning in laying the pipeline blocking the entrance to private plots, municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal has not fixed responsibility on officials before approving the proposal to be tabled before the standing committee. Mudgal told TOI he will look into the matter and take appropriate action.
 
 Apart from financial losses, NMC will have to shut down water supply to connect the new pipeline to the existing one.
 
 Bhiwapurkar said he was unable to develop the plots due to the pipeline at the entrance. “I lodged a complaint with the department when the work to lay the pipeline commenced. The department assured to lay the pipeline properly but did not keep its words. My legitimate rights are restricted, so I demanded shifting of pipeline,” he said.
 
 
