GURUGRAM:   underpass on Golf Course Road was shut down on Tuesday morning two days after it was opened for trial, as it was causing more troubles for commuters rather than mitigating their woes.

  said they had to shut down three consecutive U-turns on the road after opening the underpass, which is part of a 16-lane signal-free expressway, resulting in more confusion and snarls. “The closure of the three U-turns (marked by jersey barriers) had led to a lot of confusion. Commuters were forced to skip the three U-turns and take a turn in front of Ansal Institute of Technology instead. Several commuters, who take the route daily, complained that their travel time had increased by around 20 minutes due to this unwanted detour,” said a traffic cop.
 
 DCP (traffic) Deepak Gahlwat said a meeting was held on Monday when DLF authorities and traffic police discussed various issues that cropped up after the underpass was opened for trial on Saturday. 
 
 “During the trial over the weekend, we realised that the U-turns cannot be shut down as it was causing more congestion. Again, we cannot open both the underpass as well as the U-turns (one of which is just in front of the underpass’s exit) as it could cause accidents,” the DCP explained.
 
 Gahlwat further said the underpass would be opened, maybe after a couple of weeks, for trial again after completing some unfinished work. “The board exams are also going on which is why we shut it down temporarily,” he added.
 
 TOI last week reported that the absence of a cost-sharing agreement had been holding up the opening of Genpact Chowk underpass that was completed about six months ago. 
 
 The underpass — constructed at a cost of Rs 48 crore — was incorporated into the 16-lane signal-free DLF-Huda expressway project at a latter stage. Six other underpasses on this high-speed corridor are already functional. The construction above the underpass, essentially for U-turns, is yet to be completed.
 
 However, sources said the traffic department had not given a clear go-ahead for the underpass yet due to some loopholes in the road engineering. 
 
 “Besides, signboards have not been installed yet,” said a senior traffic official.
 
 
 
