NEW DELHI: The Union aviation ministry has recommended increasing compensation to up to Rs 20,000 per flyer for deficiencies in airline services such as flight delays and cancellations. 

 The ministry will soon put up the draft of a passenger charter containing the proposals online before the final set of rules are issued once it has weighed comments from the public and the carriers. 
 
 The   are against these suggestions on the grounds that domestic airfares in India are among the lowest globally. They have warned it will lead to “fare hikes” as they will be forced to “pass on the cost” to passengers.
 
 The draft of proposed fines sent to the airlines stipulates full refund or free hotel accommodations for long delays, flyers being allowed to alight from planes in case of over two-hour delay on tarmac and ‘auctions’ to allow people take a later flight in case of overbooking. 
 
  
  
 
 The   ( ), an umbrella body of Jet Airways, IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir, recently wrote to the ministry, saying: “…in our opinion the existing rules and compensation levels already safeguard passenger interests in a fair and adequate manner. 
 
 Making these more stringent and / or increasing the compensation levels will only result in an increase in costs for airlines which will impact their viability and result in an increase in airfares for the traveling public as airlines will have no option but to pass on such costs to their passengers”. Airlines point out the severe infrastructure crunch at big airportsand have reasoned that several delays take place because of this. 
 
 “Delays, cancellations are many a times a function/consequence of infrastructure constraints — in terminals, at airside and also due to air navigation ( ) constraints and weather, all of which are not in the control of the airlines… impact of more stringent rules and increased compensation will be greatly multiplied. We therefore suggest that the proposed changes be dropped and are of the opinion that the existing rules which are more than adequate to safeguard passenger interests be continued without any changes,” according to FIA. 
 
 The government says it will take a balanced view which protects consumer rights while not being punitive for the industry either.
 
