KHANNA: Five days after three members of a family were brutally murdered at their house in Chehlan village of  , the police claimed to have solved the case with the arrest of a sorcerer. 

 Vipin Jain, 45, a resident of Jain Colony on Daba Road, was arrested from   on Tuesday for murdering Sukhdev Singh, 45, a factory guard, his wife  , 42, and son Harjot Singh, 22, on March 2. 
 
 Jalandhar Zone-II inspector general of police Arpit Shukla said, “Sukhdev’s friend Rajinder Singh, who hails from from his native village Mirpur in   district, told the police on March 4 that sorcerer Vipin Jain had visited him and confessed to have killed the three. After recording his statement, police along with Sukhdev’s elder son Jatinder went to Neelon to trace Vipin, who also worked as an autorickshaw driver. Near the bus stand, Jatinder spotted Vipin standing near his autorickshaw (PB1310CL-2606).” 
 
 During interrogation, Vipin admitted to have axed the family. “He said Sukhdev and his family had been visiting him for the past one year. One day, Sukhdev told him that he had sold sold his land. Thinking that he must have kept the money at home, Vipin went to his house on March 1 and asked him to make boiled rice and throw its water in Neelon canal for good luck,” Shukla added.
 
 The sorcerer then gave them sedative-laced water. “He asked them to go to separate rooms, lay on the mats and close their eyes for prayers. When they slipped into unconsciousness, he first slaughtered Sukhdev and then Gurmeet. On hearing his parents’ shrieks, Harjot woke up. But Vipin told him that the noises were part of a ritual. He then slaughtered him as well after tying his hands,” said Ludhiana range deputy inspector general Gursharan Singh Sandhu. 
 
 Vipin ransacked the house, but found no money. “Even as he left the axe on a bed, he made off with two mobile phones and as many ATM cards. One of the mobile phones and an ATM card, besides the sedatives, have been recovered from his house,” the cop added. 
 
 Inspector general of police said both Sukhdev and Vipin had met at a dera. Sukhdev had told Vipin a fortnight ago that he had 15 kilograms of poppy husk at home which would fetch him a pretty penny. 
 
 Police said Sukhdev frequented the dera was desperate for good times for his family as his younger son couldn’t go to Germany for work and wanted good job for his elder son apart from good luck for his family so he hired the services of Tantrik. They added that the family’s earning was just around Rs.9000 of which they would Rs.2500 as rent.
 
 Sukhdev had left job some months ago: SSP   said that Sukhdev was doing job of Chowkidar at a factory in Dhandari Kalan area of Ludhiana but had quit the job some months ago. 
 
 
