MYSURU: Chief minister   sent the crowd at Nanjangud into a tizzy when he announced that Mysuru district in-charge minister HC Mahadevappa was also in the running for the CM’s post on Thursday.

 When a members of the audience said that he wished to see Siddaramaiah continue as the CM, the latter responded, “Don’t say that. Mahadevappa may become angry, since he is also in the race for the CM’s post.”
 
 Siddaramaiah, who inaugurated a slew of developmental projects at Nanjangud on Thursday, expressed his gratitiude to the people of the constituency for reposing their faith in the   in the bypoll that was held last year. Calling on voters to vote for Kalale Keshavamurthy, who was elected in the 2017 bypoll, again in the upcoming assembly elections, Siddaramaiah said, “In the by-election that was held nine months ago, the people of the constituency bore the many developmental programmes of the Congress in mind and voted for us, despite the opposition leaders going all out. This helped Kalale win by a margin of more than 21,000 votes. To ensure the welfare of Nanjangud people, I will grant any projects that will be taken up by the MLA, district minister Mahadevappa and MP R Dhruvanarayan.”
 
 Attacking the BJP’s ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’ slogan, the CM said, “Congress party does not belong to any community. It is the party that treats all religions and communities equally.”
 
 Siddaramaiah exuded confidence of the Congress returning to power in the state under his leadership.
 
 The CM unveiled projects amounting to a cumulative cost of Rs 484.76 crore at Nanjangud on Thursday. Some of the projects inaugurated included the Mini Vidhana Soudha, the bus stand, the Nanjangud-Hullahalli multi-village drinking water project and a bridge across River Kapila.
 
 Pointing out that Congress had appointed the first member of the Nayaka community to a key position in the party, Siddaramaiah said, “Former minister Satish Jharkiholi has been elevated from state politics to national politics. He is the first member of the Nayaka community to be appointed as AICC secretary.”
 
 Lack of proper seating arrangements on the dais resulted in the Nanjangud town municipal president  , and vice-president Pradeep struggling to find chairs. However, once the problem was brought to the attention of the MP, the issue was resolved and the duo was provided seats on the front row.
 
 
