NAGPUR: In a news that could sound sweet to the ears of his fans, noted singer and composer   has decided to come out with ‘Abhijaat’, a web series that will give budding artistes a platform to lend their voice to the songs penned by him. 

 Talking to TOI on the sidelines of programme ‘Ayushyawar Bolu Kahi’ he presented with poet Sandeep Khare as part of Mahila Udyojika Melava 2018 at Reshimbagh ground on Thursday, Kulkarni said he will use social media for the web series in which people from any corner of the world could sing his compositions. 
 
 Sharing details of his plans, he said he will post his newly composed song on his social media account every month. Those interested will have to sing Kulkarni’s composition and post the video. Every person has a dream to feature in a song. The web series will thus open new vistas for such people. After going through the number of videos uploaded, Kulkarni will select one entry for each song which will be included in the web series. 
 
 The web series will consist of 12 songs. Of these, six will be sung by established singers while the remaining by the ones selected by Kulkarni after listening to the videos. These songs will be presented alternately — by noted singers and budding artistes, he added.
 
 Presenting ‘Ayushyawar Bolu Kahi’, Khare and Kulkarni got romantic with ‘Sarivar sar sarivar sar’ that showed passions rains bring. Kulkarni sung ‘Ekti ekti ghabarlis na watlach hota aai’ that defined the warm relationship between mother and son. ‘Damlelya babachi hi kahani’ aptly expressed the grievances of a working father who is unable to spend quality time with his daughter.
 
 Several songs were presented on public demand which included ‘Ago bai dhago bai’, ‘Tuj baghta sagala hishob chukla’, ‘Diwas ase ki koni majha nai’, ‘Mi hajaar chintani doke khajavto’ and others. The duo gave background of the poems before presenting a song.
 
 February 8 was the birth anniversary of musician   and composer Sudhir Moghe. In a tribute to the ghazal maestro, Singh’s ‘Baat niklegi to dur talak jayegi’ was presented. A song of poet   was also presented.
 
 Quotes:
 
 Ghazals and Marathi songs are my favourites, and being a Suresh Bhat’s fan, watching this live show today was a beautiful experience
 
  | professor
 
 I have been following Salil Kulkarni for a very long time that made me attend this show though I was running short of time. I became emotional while ‘listening to Ekti ekti ghabarlis na’
 
 Dhanraj Thavkar | businessman
 
 The song ‘Ago bai dhago bai’ was sung beautifully that brought back my childhood memories. The programme kept me engaged
 
 Amol Tidke | manager
 
 
