NAGPUR: The State common entrance test (CET) cell has announced the first ever entrance examination for four-year full time   which will be held in online mode only on July 7.

 On February 3, TOI was the first to report about the state CET’s plans regarding the integrated BEd programme which found mention in Union finance minister Arun Jaitley’s Budget announcement.
 
 The entrance would be of 100 marks comprising 100 multiple choice questions which will have to be completed in 90 minutes. There is no negative marking and the exam would be held online. Candidates with non-zero score would be eligible for admission.
 
 However, the course would be offered at not more than 10 places, mostly under North Maharashtra Univesity at Jalgaon and Savitribai Phule Pune University (SSPU). 
 
 As the course is not offered by any institute in Vidarbha region, students are likely migrate to North Maharashtra or Pune to save an academic year. There is presence of six universities in Vidarbha including five state universities and one central university who could have started this course to check the brain drain. Besides Nagpur University, there is Amravati University, Gondwana University, SNDT Women’s University, Kavikulguru Kalidas Sanskrit University (KKSU) and Mahatma Gandhi Antarrashtriya Hindi VishwaVidyalaya,Wardha.
 
 So far, direct admissions were being done for the integrated BEd BA/BSc course at these institutes.
 
 After 2015, this course was brought under professional category and hence admissions only through entrance test are now being done.
 
 As per the Budget, the integrated education courses would be made compulsory for all such colleges from the academic year 2020-21.
 
 While presenting the Union Budget Jaitley had said, "Improvement in quality of teachers can improve the quality of education in the country. We will initiate an integrated BEd programme for teachers."
 
 Another course - Integrated three-year BEd-MEd – too is running at several places but so far no CET is required for it. Admissions to this course are done on the basis of PG degree and not UG.
 
 The integrated BA/BSc-BED is likely to have an adverse effect on the two-year Diploma in Elementary Education (D.EL.ED) course. There are several colleges in Nagpur and rest of the Maharashtra which are offering D.El. ED, that is pursued after HSC.
 
 The Centre has been pushing to initiate the integrated courses for the last couple of years. In 2014, the National Council for Teachers Education (NCTE) had also taken an affidavit from every education college to start the integrated programme by 2016-17. However, only a few colleges, mostly government-run, have been able to fulfil the undertaking in Maharashtra.
 
 The course is running at the five regional centres — Bhopal, Ajmer, Bhubaneshwar, Shillong and Mysuru — of National Council of Education, Research and Training and a few Teacher Education Institutes (TEIs) in Maharashtra.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
