BENGALURU: The  , which was free of sloganeering, has some announcements that brought cheer across the country, with Bengaluru being no exception.

 Bringing back standard deduction, covering 50 crore people under insurance for hospitalization (Rs 5 lakh for each family) and a slew of sops to MSMEs are among proposals that Bengalureans hope to benefit from. However, lack of clarity on banning blockchain and crypto currency, increase in customs duty and poor implementation of several big-ticket projects like Smart Cities, Digital India and Make-In-India will also have its effect on the city.
 
 
 Bengaluru's two big infrastructure projects — suburban rail network and Metro rail links — are clearly the priority, and the city’s scientific institutes also have something to be enthused about.
 
 While the suburban rail project got a push, Bengaluru will also get a slice of the Rs 15,000crore earmarked for expansion of Metro rail links across the country.
 
 The Centre hopes to add 190km of Metro rail in the coming year, of which nearly 13km will be in Bengaluru. Most of the funding for Metro projects is already cleared by the Cabinet and the budget only ratifies it. The budget specifically mentions that the funds will go towards “Phase-2 civil works to start in all four extensions of Bengaluru Metro”.
 
 Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) president   said: “The big announcement for Bengaluru is only the suburban rail. In fact, in our pre-budget meeting with railway minister Piyush Goyal, we had mentioned the need for expedition of the project and are glad it found a mention.”
 
 Infrastructure expert V Ravichandar says, “Overall, I think the   the party’s priorities, with the farm sector getting a lot of sops, given the upcoming elections. There are several gaps that will need further deliberation, and some other schemes that will need strong implementation. Both schemes will impact Bengaluru, like the crypto-currency and blockchain ban, which will hurt innovation, or the insurance scheme which will see state contributions and so on,” Ravichandar said.
 
 The budget has given a boost to some R&D initiatives in the science, technology and engineering sectors in the city.
 
 As part of the Centre’s research and development initiatives in IT,   and CCBT (Convergence Communications & Broadband Technologies), the budget provides for Indian Nanoelectronics User Programme, which will see 300 users at IIT-Mumbai & IISc Bengaluru. IISc will also get a research park, one of the six in the country.
 
 In a bid to enhance competitiveness in the capital goods sector, the budget cleared setting up of   of excellence (CoEs), including two in Bengaluru — at IISc and the   Institute. The two institutes will also see two of the nine Common Engineering Facility Centres to be set up.
 
