CHANDIGARH: At just 15, shooter Anish Bhanwala became India’s youngest Commonwealth Games gold medallist when he came on top in the men’s 25-metre rapid fire pistol event at Belmont Shooting Centre in Australia’s   on Friday.

 Anish, who hails from Karnal, Haryana, bagged the gold with a Games record score. The medal, however, didn’t come easy for the teen prodigy. He and his family had to battle several odds on the way to   glory.
 
 Lack of a single shooting range in entire Haryana prompted the Bhanwalas to shift from Karnal to Faridabad three years ago. “There isn’t a single world-class shooting range in Haryana, zero facility,” Jagpal Bhanwala, Anish’s father, told TOI. “To support the dreams of my son and daughter (Anish’s sister Muskan Bhanwala is also an international shooter), I had to move from Karnal and take a house in Faridabad so that both Anish and Muskan could practice at the   in Delhi.”
 
 Jagpal, an advocate in Karnal, also had to give up his practice. “I used to shuttle between Faridabad and Karnal every day for one year. And, it was very taxing and difficult. So I had to give up practice in order to focus totally on my kids and their training,” he said.
 
 
 
 Anish, who earlier competed in modern pentathlon, took up shooting three years ago. Modern pentathlon involves fencing, swimming, show jumping, shooting and running. He excelled in several national-level competitions in modern pentathlon.
 
 “Most of his medals in pentathlon came due to his good performances in shooting. His talent with the gun was spotted by senior shooters and they advised me to make Anish concentrate on shooting instead of three-four sports,” said Jagpal. “Several experts of the game told me that Anish could do well in the future internationally because he has world-class technique. That’s when I got convinced and decided to take the plunge and enrolled both the kids.”
 
 Jagpal also had to take loans to buy pistols required to participate in international tournaments.
 
 “I have taken loans to financially support Anish and Muskan in their efforts to garner glory for the country. I didn’t want money to be a roadblock for my children’s dreams,” he said.
 
 Now, Jagpal is hopeful that shooting ranges and facilities will come up in the state.
 
 “Haryana shooters are performing exceptionally at the international level. Look at Manu (Bhaker), Anish, Gauri (Sheoran), Anmol (Jain), they are all bringing medals for the country. The good thing about Haryana sports policy is that it rewards the medallists with cash awards and jobs — on that parameter, Haryana is the best. But it is sad that there is no world-class shooting facility in the state yet. Hopefully, things will change now,” Jagpal said.
 
