Ahead of the Mahindra Blues Fest next weekend, Anand Mahindra, chairman of the  , talks about the festival going green, corporate commitment to the arts and discovering fresh grounds. 
 from an interview:

 
 
 A: It’s best to look at the festival holistically. The programme is carefully curated so one is exposed to various styles performed by a diverse set of acclaimed musicians from around the world. So I am looking forward to the entire festive weekend. The final jam is always a lot of fun – that’s when all the musicians who have played at the festival come together for one final jam together. This is the signature closing.
 
 
 
 A: Buddy Guy is a legend and we are very fortunate to have a wonderful relationship with him. He has been very appreciative of our effort in keeping the Blues alive and very kindly lets us take over his Legends Club in Chicago twice a year for the Mahindra Blues weekend.
 
 Even so, it is important for any festival to bring to its audiences new talent each year. Over the years, we have had the privilege to present several Blues giants like   and Keb Mo – who have just been awarded a Grammy, the Tedeschi Trucks Band, Supersonic Blues Machine, John Lee Hooker Jr., child prodigy Quinn Sullivan, Walter Trout,  , Jimmy Thackeray and many more. I am delighted British Blues legend   is with us this time in a fabulous line-up.
 
 
 
 A: Absolutely. Sustainability and environmental consciousness have always been a part of the group’s ethos. The Mahindra Blues Festival has already taken a number of measures through the years on sustainability. We have been consistently getting the Platinum level Yale Certificate for this event for a couple of years. This year too, we have worked on distinct aspects that will help in reducing the festival’s carbon footprint.
 
 
 
 A: The arts play an essential role in society. Creative expression is the cornerstone of our collective humanity. Individual and institutional support of the arts is necessary when public funding is either scarce or lacking. Our festivals help us connect with the communities we serve at an emotional level – quite different from when we are selling a product or service. These emotional connections are vital in developing a sense of comfort and feeling of trust between us and our customers. I believe the corporate and arts community must develop a symbiotic relationship to benefit from each other’s needs and strengths.
 
 
 
 
