SHIVAMOGGA: Barely 48 hours after   visited  ,  , a  , writers and activists have taken to   to condemn the visit, claiming it is an insult to Kuvempu. They claim that unlike Shah and the BJP, Kuvempu promoted universal brotherhood. However,   leaders strongly defended Shah’s visit, claiming it was a non-political event. 

 In a post that was widely debated , Kartik Gowda Belgodu, a young writer and activist from the Chikkamagaluru, requested Shah to keep Kuppalli out of his political strategy. In his post, he pointed out that all the things which Kuvempu had opposed, happened with Shah’s visit to Kuppalli. 
 
 Belgodu questioned the decision of the Kuvempu Memorial Trust to grant permission for Shah to visit, especially at a time of elections. He insisted that Shah visited Kuppalli with an eye on Vokkaliga votes and not out of respect for Kuvempu. He said Shah’s visit could open the floodgates since Rahul Gandhi may now want to visit Kuppalli. Such visits are against the very thoughts of the Kuvempu, he said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Belgodu said: "Kuvempu was against gun culture, but gunmen entered both his smaraka and his house. At the time of Kuvempu's death, his son, writer Poornachandra Tejaswi, had opposed the visit of a national leader since his father did not like politicians. So Shah’s visit was unfortunate.”
 
 Chetana Thirthahalli, Kannada writer and activist of Malnad origin, in a series of posts under the hashtag ‘athmavimarshe’ (introspection), said it is better not too read too much into Shah’s visit. “In a democray, anyone can visit any place they wish,” she posted. “Everybody knows Shah's Kuppalli visit is nothing but a political ploy. It is better to ignore it. Instead of condemning Shah's visit, we should spread Kuvempu's literature and ideals in society.”
 
 Araga Jnanendra, former MLA and BJP leader, who accompanied Shah to Kavishaila and Kavimane, downplayed the issue. "Both Kavishaila and Kavimane are public properties,” Jnanendra said. “Those who respect Kuvempu and his writings can visit these places. Opposing Shah's visit to the Kuppalli is against the very concept of universal brotherhood propagated by Kuvempu. It reflects the mentality of intolerance among these people.” 
 
 
