BAREILLY:  , chairperson of the   municipality board who won the local civic body polls in November last year on a   ticket and had to face sedition charges almost immediately after her victory, was arrested and sent to jail on Wednesday by the UP police. Interestingly, she was held not on sedition charges but in a case dating back to 2011.
 
  Days after the election results were out on December 1, Tahir had taken out a victory procession in which, according to a local VHP leader, her supporters shouted "anti-India slogans". On the basis of the complaint, a sedition case was slapped on her though she produced videos where none of her supporters were seen making "anti-national" statements. In the video there is a lone voice off-camera that is heard saying "Pakistan zindabad". Tahir has insisted it wasn't any of her supporters and that "mischief had been planted against her by her opponents". 
  
  In high-voltage drama earlier in the day, the sub-divisional magistrate of Nawabganj in   district swore in Tahir as chairperson of the local civic body behind closed doors. However, police swooped down minutes later and whisked her away to the Bareilly district court where additional chief judicial magistrate Avnish Kumar sent her to judicial custody of 14 days.
  
  With the sedition case against her, it took almost a month to clear the confusion about the swearing-in of Tahir. Allahabad High Court had then ordered district magistrate   to swear her in by January 17 after she approached the court accusing the administration of delaying the ceremony.
  
  “Shehla has been arrested for assaulting a doctor in Nawabganj in 2011. A court had issued non-bailable warrant against her on January 8,” said superintendent of police (city) Rohit Kumar Sajwan.
  
  Police took Tahir to district hospital for medical examination and then produced her in court, from where she was sent to jail. The large number of advocates present in the tightly-packed court raised slogans of ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ after she was sent to judicial custody. They also allegedly assaulted the BSP leader’s nephew and one of her supporters for raising slogans in her support.
  
  Kshitij Yadav, one of the advocates who started raising slogans first, told TOI, “When we raised slogans, the magistrate was not sitting at the dais. It is not a crime to raise slogans praising the motherland.”
