HYDERABAD: Who will head the Third Front being cobbled up by Telangana chief minister K   as an alternative to BJP and Congress? From the way he has conducted himself in the last two days, Chandrasekhar Rao has made it amply clear he will be leading the non-Congress and non-BJP coalition. But, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is also on the same job of bringing various political parties on a single platform. The issue now is who will agree to work under whom.

 
 “Let’s not get ahead of the story. Leadership and egos are not the issue,” Derek O'Brien, Trinamool Congress parliamentary party leader and   member, told TOI. “Mamata Banerjee is in touch with all senior leaders across the country. They too are in touch with her,” he said when contacted.
  
  
 According to Derek O'Brien, some years ago, Mamata herself initiated the idea of a federal formation to remove BJP from power.
 TRS too sought to downplay the issue as to who will lead the non-Congress, non-BJP coalition. “In so far as chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao is concerned, he will work with anyone. Leadership of the front is not a question at this stage and neither will it be in future. The CM has taken up a cause of farmers and he wants to work for their benefit,” said TRS spokesman  .
 
 
 Meanwhile on Monday, Ajit Jogi, former chief minister of Chhattisgarh and leader of  , called up Chandrasekhar Rao to express solidarity with him on the issue of bringing about a ‘qualitative change’ in politics.
 
 
 According a note from the CMO, Ajit Jogi expressed willingness to be part of the front. He also told KCR he would gather support of like-minded people for the proposed front.
 
 
 Though it is not clear at this stage, once it become clear who will all be part of the front, a public meeting has been planned by the TRS wherein leaders of all parties will participate to showcase their strength as an alternative to Congress and BJP.
 
 
 Chandrasekhar Rao in his preparation for his role in national politics will hold a series of meetings with economists and experts from different fields in various cities. He will hold these meetings in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru and other cities. Meetings will also be held with retired civil servants, retired defence personnel, legal luminaries, advocates, farmers associations and retired central services officers’ employees associations in all states. He will also meet retired finance secretaries, media houses, industrial houses, and labour organizations.
 
