NEW DELHI: The storm that hit the capital on Sunday evening wreaked havoc on Delhi Metro’s train operations. Despite being a holiday, thousands of commuters were stranded as operations came to a grinding halt on the Blue and Violet Lines after the storm damaged electrical equipment on the elevated sections of these corridors.

 Train services on   (Escorts Mujesar-Kashmere Gate) were disrupted after a tree fell on the overhead electrical equipment between Okhla and Jasola stations. As a result of which, services were run in two loops from 5pm to 5.40 pm — between Sarita Vihar to Escorts Mujesar and   to Kashmere Gate. A DMRC spokesperson claimed that operations were normalised by 5.40 pm.
 
 “Similarly, services on   (Dwarka-Noida City Centre/Vaishali) between Noida Sector-16 to Noida City Centre were not available from 5.15pm due to damage to the overhead electrical equipment on the line going towards Noida,” the spokesperson said. “Normal services were restored on this section by 6.50pm”.
 
 Services between Indraprastha and   metro stations were also not available as a tree fell on the Rajiv Chowk to RK Ashram section (going towards Dwarka). Services on the section were, however, restored by 7.37pm.
 
 “Trains on the Blue Line were arriving after a gap of nearly half an hour and were packed despite it being a Sunday,” said Pulkit Sharma, a commuter. “I was stranded at Mandi House station, which was jam-packed as trains were not arriving on time,” he added.
 
 Rajan Mehra, another commuter said: “I left Vaishali at around 6pm but train services were so slow that I reached Mandi House after 8pm, a journey that usually doesn’t take even half an hour”.
 
 Apart from major interchange stations such as Mandi House and Rajiv Chowk, other stations also witnessed major crowding as the number of commuters stranded at stations kept rising by the hour.
 
 The affected sections were attended to by DMRC’s maintenance team immediately and normal services on the entire Delhi Metro network was restored by 7.45pm, the spokesperson claimed.
 
 
