NEW DELHI: Voting is underway for the 224-seat Karnataka assembly across 30 districts of the state. Congress leader and chief minister   is confident that his party will come back to power, while JD(S) has asserted that his party will form the next government on its own. Here is a look at reactions of various political leaders on the ongoing assembly elections -

 
 
 
 "  is mentally disturbed. We are very-very confident that Congress party will come back to power with a complete majority."
 
 "Today, people of Karnataka are standing in queues to create history and show the nation the way to liberal, progressive, peaceful and compassionate politics and governance. I thank them for their support and wish them well,” Siddaramaiah said in a tweet.
 
 The Congress leader alleged that BJP is openly supporting JD(S).
 
 "JDS has distributed a lot of money, their candidate says he is a society secretary, so from where did he get so much money? Also, BJP is openly supporting  , they have put up a dummy candidate here: Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah on Chamundeshwari constituency
 
  
 
 
 
 "We are confident that JD(S) will cross the magic number on its own."
 
 "Before going to cast my vote, I decided to seek the blessings of Lord Bhairaveshwara and the Adi Chunchanagiri seer (Nirmalananda Swami)," said   as he sought the blessings of his family deity Bhairaveshwara at Adi Chunchanagiri Math at Vijayanagar in Bengaluru.
 
  
 
 
 
 "Urging my sisters and brothers of Karnataka to vote in large numbers today. I would particularly like to call upon young voters to vote and enrich this festival of democracy with their participation."
 
 
 
 
 "Voter exercising his right without fail is the sign of functional democracy. I welcome all my young friends who are casting their vote for the first time in Karnataka," Gandhi said in a tweet in Kannada.
 
 "I request people of Karnataka to celebrate this biggest festival of democracy in large numbers with fervour, and make it successful," he said.
 
 
 
 
 "We expect a possibility of forming the government, we have done well."
 
 
 
 
 "As there is a model code of conduct in Karnataka, PM Modi planned to pray at temples in Nepal instead, just to influence voters. This is not a good trend for democracy. Why did he only choose today as the day?"
 
  
 
 
 
  "We are confident. BJP will not win more than 60-70 seats maximum, forget getting 150. They are just dreaming of forming the Government."
 
 
 
