BENGALURU: Controversies over distribution of ‘gifts’ by Congress candidates marred voting in the repoll at Lottegollahalli, Hebbal constituency, and against Rajarajeshwarinagar incumbent MLA. Chaos prevailed a little over a 100 metres from the polling station in Hebbal, with BJP and JD(S) supporters accusing Byrathi Suresh, the Congress candidate, of distributing jewellery and money to voters in the area.

 
 BJP supporters, led by Hebbal MLA Y A Narayanaswamy, alleged that the Congress was using one of the flats 100 meters from the polling booth as a front to distribute money. Dozens of them gathered in front of the building and shouted slogans against the Congress, stating that they had CCTV footage proving their claim, and that both police and the Election Commission were not taking it seriously.
 
 
 
 
 Additionally, a woman BJP supporter said that when she tried to inquire as to what was happening in the flat, Congress workers grabbed her chain, breaking it into two.
 
 Union minister Sadananda Gowda also visited the spot and said they had lodged a complaint, but that no action had been taken so far.
 
 
 
 
 Posting what appears to be CCTV footage on Twitter, Narayanaswamy wrote “A flat in Anriya Palatial was used by Congress candidate Suresha as a front for distributing cash today for Re Polling in booth 2 in Hebbal. He goes in at 9:30 and two Congress workers get cash out at 10:49. Evidence has been given to EC and police”
 
 Congress workers said Suresh had just come to the building to have breakfast with a friend.
 
 
 
 
 Muddying the waters further, two woman residents of the building alleged that they had ‘proof’ of Congress workers and the woman resident of the flat distributing money and gold coins to voters on Sunday night and Monday morning.
 
 Congress candidate Munirathna admitted that saris were indeed distributed, but it was on the occasion of Sankranti which was early this year. “The saris were indeed distributed by me. But they were distributed to the middle class and lower middle class on the occasion of Sankranti festival. What is wrong in that? These saris were given on January 14. I have been distributing saris for the last eight years.”
 
 
