UDAIPUR: District administration in Udaipur has issued directions for all schools to close at 12 noon, due to the intense heat wave.

 Also, adhering to the decision of the  , a notice was issued by the collector asking the district education officers to ensure the new summer schedule for every government and private schools in the district. As per the new timing, schools will function from 7.30 am to 12 pm. Most of the private schools right now are from 7.30 am to 1.30 pm, with children really having a hard time in the severe weather. Meanwhile, some of the schools have closed the session for the primary classes.
 
 “Most of the schools will be closing for the summer break by the second week of May however, if the rash weather continues we may consider for an early closing,” said a Principal of a private school.
 
 Severe hot weather and soaring mercury is making days unbearable in Udaipur. On Monday, the temperature display units at Chetak Circle and Court Choraha indicated the maximum temperature at 43 degree Celsius during the peak afternoon hours. 
 
 According to experts, the average temperature for the month of April in Udaipur had remained 38-40 degrees in the past years. However, with the mercury having touched the 43 degree mark this time, heat is getting unbearable for the citizens. 
 
 Meanwhile, the forest department too is making arrangements to provide relief to the animals at the Sajjangarh Zoological Park. Coolers and grass blinds are being fixed on cages and enclosures to save the animals from the heat. “Changes have been made in their diet plan too. We are giving cucumber, honey and sometimes even ice-cream to the bears here,” said  , the chief conservator of forest.
 
 Heat waves multiplied the woes of city dwellers as the blazing heat made it hard for them to move out especially during afternoon. Despite the wedding season, markets are comparatively wearing a barren look with people confining themselves indoors and only those having emergency tasks are seen commuting on roads.
 
 Lake shores are witnessing higher footfalls in the evenings. Youths are seen in large numbers at the Fatehsagar Pal, Lake Pichhola and   area. Dining halls and restaurants too are receiving fewer guests during the day while with the public movement gearing up after 8pm, eating places are seen open even after midnight which had been uncommon in the past years.
 
 
