It is that time of the year again when   are round the corner. However, gone are the days when students’ study tables are piled up with photocopies of study materials. With the advent of technology and smartphones, they have found refuge in the ‘smart’ ways to prepare for exams, they say.

 Kiran M Dharan, an MA student from the department of economics, Sacred Heart College, Kochi, says that the e-PG Pathshala provided by University Grants Commission is a storehouse of resources and knowledge. “Through its official website called Infilbnet, we gain access to the lectures from various prominent universities across the country, including Delhi University.”
 
 While the concept of ‘combined study’ used to be considered mandatory before exams, it has now been extended to the virtual world, he adds. “We create a study group of willing members on WhatsApp. It then becomes a platform for clearing doubts, exchanging information and discussing our lessons. The one who has studied sends images and voice notes as well, which makes it easier for others to go back to, when in doubt. You also get different perspectives and ways of looking at a question or problem.”
 
 Another virtual space called Slideshare.net allows users to upload and share files and PowerPoint presentations, essentially in a more simplified form, he says. “That said, our teachers also send articles to the students by mail. The knowledge that we have access to free ebooks, original thesis and abstracts make us students stress-free to a great extent.”
 
 Asif Abdul Kalam, a Master of Communication and Journalism student at University of Kerala, Karyavattom campus, Thiruvananthapuram, is of the opinion that though phones can never replace books, they can go a long way in terms of convenience. “One of the most useful features of a smartphone is the voice assistant. This can save you a lot of time during exam days. You can ask it complex mathematical questions as well. There is no need to waste your time typing the entire question into the search bar. All you have to do is ‘ask’ and ‘you shall receive’ an array of information.”
 
 Apps too are of immense help to students, he adds. “Another useful application which allows you to scan documents such as textbooks, or even handwritten lecture notes using your mobile phone camera and export it to pdf format which can be later shared via email, WhatsApp or any other communication app you use. You can also add notes to what you have scanned.”
 
  There are plenty of such apps that are helpful, according to Asif. Most of them offer quiz and mock tests and tracks your daily progress. “In addition, YouTube tutorials are a great source of lectures from around the globe. You can download them and convert them into audio files and listen to them en route your exam hall,” he adds.
 
 When there is just 10 minutes left for your exam, watching a video online before you enter the hall will reap great rewards, says Amaljith George, a final year mechanical engineering student from CUSAT. “Even if you miss c lasses, you don’t have to be disappointed. Surfing on the Internet and following each module online will help you gain a better understanding compared to turning the pages of a book.”
 
 Amaljith says that as he belongs to the ‘smart class’ era, teachers are also keen to create a visual impact on them through presentations. They are less time consuming and easier to comprehend as well. “Relying on books alone has become passe today. That said, in this race for getting hands-on experience from the world over, those with a less costly smartphone or a laptop will find themselves lagging behind in many aspects.”
 
 Botany student, Sai Gayathri from St Teresa’s College, Kochi, says that while the method of learning is similar with technology, it is more useful while preparing for their practical exams. “If anyone spots a specimen, they make sure to take a snapshot of it and share it in the group. This in turn helps others identify and study its features before the exams.”
 
 She adds that she has come across friends who depend on videos online that offer easy ways to make mathematical calculations. “I have learnt to effectively write lecture notes and also prepare one of your own from virtual 
 media.”
 
 Asif concludes saying that you don't have to carry those heavy books out of the library anymore, as all you have to do is take pictures of the portions that are relevant for your examination. “You can go through them as you travel in a bus or anywhere else, anytime and can carry thousands of notes in your device memory at the same time, thereby saving a lot of space and time.”
 
