AHMEDABAD: Apparently disturbed by the uproar in the house on Wednesday — where the   from   was suspended for two days and the entire opposition for one day — the  ,  , said he couldn’t sleep all night and had even called the MLAs to his residence to find the truth.

 Trivedi’s comments came during the discussion in the house about Wednesday’s proceedings — over which   MLAs moved a no-confidence motion against the speaker — after he suspended all Congress MLAs for demanding a zero-hour discussion on the high rate of VAT levied on petrol and diesel. Congress MLAs had then protested for two hours outside the office of speaker, shouting slogans like ‘Save Democracy’ and ‘Save Farmers’.
 
 On Thursday, leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani again raised the issue of the high rate of VAT on petrol and diesel. He was, however, told to send the chief whips of both parties and fix a time for the discussion.
 
 Dhanani later raised the issue of the suspension of the Unjha MLA. Patel allegedly used unparliamentary language when walking out of the house. Dhanani said the suspension should be revoked, as the house was not in order and Patel was leaving the assembly.
 
 To this, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel asked if an MLA hit a minister on the pretext that the house was not in order. He further said that if the MLA was pardoned it would set a wrong precedent and MLAs would use unparliamentary language under the refuge that the house was not in order.
 
 The chief minister later intervened and said that the MLA should apologize to the speaker and her suspension can be revoked. However, the Congress MLAs did not agree to the apology.
 
 Trivedi said, “I am a person who has always gone by the rule book. I call upon the MLAs to form a 10-member committee and examine if I was wrong. If I am wrong, I will apologize in the house.”
 
 The Congress has already moved a no-confidence against the speaker, which will likely be taken up in this session. The assembly will be in session for all of March and the no-confidence motion is set to be tabled in 17 days.
 
 
