For most of us, the day starts with the harsh buzz of an   and we end up dragging ourselves out of bed to face yet another day. There is a certain reluctance in our body language when it comes to facing the day ahead. However, there are ways to start your day on a fresh note instead of feeling all groggy and miserable. Here’s how you can improve your mood, up your energy levels in the morning and get off to a great start every day.

 
 
 
 Start the night before by having a relaxing nighttime routine before hitting the bed. Eat your dinner early and on time, take your medicines, keep a glass of water near your bedside table and then get into the bed.
 
 
 
 Decide on your outfit for work, iron it and set it aside the previous night itself. That way you avoid wasting time in the morning thinking what to wear and getting it ready at the last minute. 
 
 
 
 If you are planning to carry your lunch, decide on what you are going to take with you and if possible make preparations for it too in advance.
 
 
 
 Even if you keep your phone on silent the vibration mode too might be disturbing for you and you may end up getting up again and again to check your phone. To avoid this, instead of using your mobile for waking you up in the morning, go for the old fashioned alarm clock.
 
 
 
 If however you set an alarm on your mobile phone, avoid harsh, loud, noisy alarm tunes. Instead choose a pleasant alarm which might be your favourite song, sounds from nature or gentle bells ringing faraway.
 
 
 
 You may be tempted to hit the snooze button when the alarm rings but try and avoid it. 
 
 
 
 Most of us are tempted to laze around for couple of minutes more. However, that might just give you a chance to drift off to sleep further. So, it is best to avoid it.
 
 
 
 It is natural for all of us to stretch a bit while getting up from bed. Ask your medical advisor if you can extend that to couple of more stretches and do a set of them, using various parts of the body in the next ten minutes.
 
 
 
 Think of the day ahead of you and give attention to the positive thoughts that come to your mind. 
 
