AMARAVATI: It’s a classic case of fence eating the farm! To please public works department (PWD), Amravati forest officials not only evaluated roadside trees on a lower side but are also mum on violation of Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 in widening of highway 353K between Nandgaon-Morshi-Warud-Pandhurna.

 Wildlife Awareness, Research & Rescue Welfare Society, Amravati, has demanded an inquiry into financial irregularities in felling of 4,400 trees and violation of FCA in the 53km stretch. A complaint has been lodged with principal secretary (forest) Vikas Kharge.
 
 The first evaluation of 4,400 trees was done by Morshi RFO in September and October 2017 for Rs2.43 crore. It was done as per Amravati circle rates. However, as PWD contractor disapproved the higher evaluation, the same trees were revaluated by forest officials in December last for Rs57.59 lakh. Reasons for revaluation have not been mentioned. The revaluation was lowered by around Rs1.85 crore (76% reduction) causing huge loss to the state government. Interestingly, the trees were revaluated by applying Yavatmal circle rates for 2016.
 
 If evaluation of trees is one issue, there was violation of FCA by digging forest land and felling trees on it without submitting a mandatory proposal under Section 2 of the FCA. The violations were brought to the notice of Amravati CCF   by DFO (vigilance) after a field inspection on February 23, 2018.
 
 Chouhan says it is true that evaluation of 4,400 trees was done as per high rates prevailing in Amravati circle owing to best quality timber extracted here. “But same rates cannot be applied for roadside trees which are not of good quality. Hence, revaluation was done,” he adds.
 
 On FCA violation,   said responsibility will be fixed for digging on forest land and felling trees on it without any land diversion proposal. “We will take action against PWD and also our own staff,” he said.
 
 In his report on March 3, Chouhan admitted that no forest offence was registered against PWD contractor for excavation on forest land and illegally felling 309 trees in the forest area. An explanation has been sought by Chouhan from Amravati DyCF on March 3. This was done without submitting mandatory proposal under Section 2 of FCA.
 
 PWD executive engineer Raosaheb Zalte, Akola, says, “Felling trees is not a day’s process. Forest department did not object to when we felled the trees. Now, work has been stopped in the forest stretches. We are trying to prove our ownership of the road. If not, then a revised proposal for forest land diversion will be submitted.” 
 
 Forest sources said the evaluation of trees was lowered as there were no takers for trees valued at Rs2.43 crore. “This delayed road widening and the issue was taken up by Union minister Nitin Gadkari with chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Things changed after this and forest ministry issued directions to expedite road widening work in forest areas,” they said.
 
 Amravati deputy conservator   denied any mala fide intention to lower valuation of trees. “The trees were wrongly evaluated and hence revaluation,” he said.
 
 
