Panaji:   may have missed out on the big prize in the Indian Super League but the three-time semifinalists have shown big ambitions for next season with the capture of midfielder   on a two-year contract.
 
  FC Goa have made it to the semifinals three times in four years but made it to the final only once in 2015, losing at home against   FC. The franchise is determined to break their title duck and have now strengthened themselves for next season with the signing of Lenny, who missed out on a title of his own after losing to Chennaiyin FC in this year’s final at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium on Saturday.
  
  Lenny is expected to step into the shoes of defensive midfielder Pronay Halder, who is headed to ATK.
  
  “I want to thank the management of FC Goa and head coach ( ) who showed faith in my abilities. When they showed interest, I was very excited and happy. I am glad to sign for Goa. It is a dream come true to play in front of the home crowd. The atmosphere at Fatorda is outstanding. My friends and family always wanted me to play for Goa and finally, the time has come. I wish to win the ISL with FC Goa next season,” Lenny told TOI on Monday.
  
  Bengaluru were overwhelming favourites to script history when captain   put them ahead with a diving header early in the final but the visitors turned the match on its head with a double strike from Mailson Alves before the break.
  
  “We played better football than our opponents but maybe lack of concentration costs us the title,” said Lenny, who couldn’t hide his tears after the agonising loss.
  
  Bengaluru were clearly the better side throughout the league and, going into the final, were on a 15-match unbeaten run in all competitions, including the AFC Cup. Lenny spent three seasons at FC Pune City and made the move to Bengaluru after being picked at the domestic player draft early this season.
  
  “For me this season was a wonderful learning experience. Throughout the league we were on top of the table but it was just not our day in the final. It was a very sad moment, especially for our fans. I couldn’t believe we lost but this is football and we have to learn from experience,” said Lenny.
  
  Lenny played an instrumental role under Albert Roca, making 17 appearances and scoring once. The former international is known for his abilities to distribute the ball and intercept timely and will be a vital inclusion for Goa, who are chasing their maiden title after finishing runners-up at home in 2015.
