BHOPAL: Successive droughts coupled with erratic rainfall pattern are major causes for a sharp decline in   in the state. A report of central groundwater board ( ) revealed in last 10 years in Madhya Pradesh, water table is going down in larger area, but the recharge is happening in smaller parts.

 Northern parts of the state, which include   and Chambal region, drought prone parts of Bundelkhand in the state and parts of Mahakoshal region — seem to be the worst affected as far as decline in water table is concerned.
 
 The CGWB monitors groundwater levels across the country four times a year to bring out the “spatial and temporal” changes in the ground water regime, a senior officer of the board said.
 
 The continuous monitoring provides a valuable tool to decipher seasonal and long-term changes in groundwater levels, and in turn helps in managing the ground water resources in a scientific and effective manner, he added.
 
 A comparison of figures of the last one decade by the board showed there is a rise in the water level in about 37.44% of wells and fall in 62.56% wells.
 
 “Further analysis of figures showed alarming changes .There was hardly any significant rise in the water table even in wells, which were marked as a rise in water,” board sources said.
 
 Of 37.44 % of wells, which showed rise in water level, only about 30.39% of wells in mainly western and central parts of the state and many districts in patches show a rise in water level up to 2 m.
 
 Only about 5.41% of wells show a rise of the order of 2m to 4 m and it is found in patches only, claims the report.
 
 A significant rise of more than 4 m is found only in about 1.63% of the wells and is seen in patches in north and western part and north eastern parts of the state.
 
 Of the 62 .56 % water level decline up to 2 m is recorded in about 40.10% of wells spread in central, eastern and northern parts of the state while about 14.75% of the wells show a decline in the order of 2 m-4 m 
 
 A large number of wells -7.71% - showed more than 4m decline in water levels. They were spread mostly in Bhind, Morena, Gwalior, Dewas, Jabalpur, Betul, Chhatarpur, Chhindwara and   districts and in patches in many districts.
 
 The North Central Region of CGWB, based in Bhopal, monitors 1204 open dug wells in the state.These monitoring wells are being monitored four times in a hydrological year in months of May (premonsoon) and August, November (post-monsoon) and January.
 
 The long-term data generated during these monitoring seasons are important for computation, comparison and analysis of groundwater utilization and its availability, officials said.
 
 GFX 
 
 Water table: Up and Down: Jan 2017 to Jan 2018
 
 UP
 
 About 33.44% of wells show rise and 66.56% decline in water levels in Jan 2018 compared to those in Jan 2017.
 
 25.43% of wells shows rise in water levels only up to 2 M in Khargone, Khandwa, Harda, Betul, Seoni, Chhindwara, Balaghat, Narsinghpur and Sagar districts and patches in districts of the state
 
 Rise of 2M-4 M in 5.37% of wells in Khargone, Barwani, Khandwa, Harda, Betul, Seoni, Rajgarh, Vidisha and Sagar dists
 
 2.64% of wells show more than 4 M rise in Rajgarh, Seoni, Rajgarh, Bhind and Gwalior dist
 
 Down
 
 44.48 % of wells show up to 2 M decline in Khargone, Khandwa, Harda, Betul Seoni, Chhindwara, Balaghat Narsinghpur, Vidisha and Sagar districts
 
 22 % wells show decline from 2 M and more than 4 M in Dewas, Dhar, Shajapur, Rajgarh, Shivpuri, Gwalior, Morena, Chhatarpur, Rewa, Satna and Chhindwara dists and in many dists in pockets
 
 
