ROHTAK: Vice President M   has advised the IIM-Rohtak students to grow as managerial leaders who can foresee future trends and shape the world in the best possible way.

 Naidu was addressing a gathering at the 7th convocation of Indian Institute of Management at Rohtak on Sunday.   asked the students to not be content with mere ‘managing’ well but exhorted them to learn to lead.
 
 He said that institutes like   produce business managers, leaders who have the wisdom and courage to reform the institutions, business corporations and the government.
 
 “The world of learning and the world of work are changing very rapidly and you need to be ever alert and ever agile,” he added.
 
 Remembering Mahatma Gandhi, the Vice President asked the students to shun ‘knowledge without character, commerce without morality, science without humanity’. “Your actions in private and public life must be guided by a moral and ethical compass,” he said.
 
 Lauding the premier institute for its gender-diversity initiatives, Naidu said extensive efforts in promoting the girl child education and various other social steps would bring harmony, equality and empathy among the people of the region.
 
 “Our land was called   not fatherland, and the rivers Godavari, Kaveri, Yammuna, Saraswati were named after women, indicating the importance given to women in the past,” Naidu said.
 
 Drawing parallels, he said the education minister’s responsibility was given to Saraswati, defence was allocated to Durga and finance to Lakshmi, giving all women prime importance.
 
 Urging the audience to take pride in their country, he said, “One should not forget one’s mother, motherland and mother tongue -- biological mother who gave birth, motherland where one gets born, mother tongue that we all should take pride speaking in at least at home. When foreign prime ministers come to our country, they speak their native language because they love it and it is very important that we teach our kids the same”, Naidu said.
 
 He was also inaugurated the new IIM-Rohtak campus located at Sunaria village on the outskirts of the city, spread in over 20 acres of land.
 
 
