SALEM: Entire   becomes vibrant when a cinema shooting takes place in the town. From lodges to hotels, vehicles, bungalows, paddy fields, marriage halls become abuzz with activities. 

 People who come for cinema shootings will need lodges to stay, hotels for food, cars and heavy vehicles to pick and drop artists. “Everyone in the town will be getting some good business and revenue through cinema shootings,” said  , an hotelier in Gobichettipalayam. He said all the cooks and hotel chefs were busy in those days when cinema shooting commenced here. “Just imagine the importance of the cooks as they will not be available even during marriage seasons and they will be available only in cinema shooting areas in 1980s and 90s,” Mahalingam recalled.
 
 Kallepatty Jyothi, a location consultant, said the main job of the location consultant is to fix shooting spots for the directors. He said the location consultant should get proper permission from the government officials before the cinema shooting get started in the places such as government temples, dam and forest. Everything went on smoothly until 2011. Former chief minister J Jayalalithaa imposed a ban to take cinema shootings in temples and forests. “After that, cinemas taken in Gobichettipalayam decreased,” Jyothy lamented. He said severe drought in recent years was also another reason for not taking cinema shootings in Gobichettipalayam.
 
 Jyothy said people acted in many cinemas as side-artists. They will get at least Rs 500 per day during shooting time. More than 1,000 people will be benefitted in 1980s and 90s. Later, it was reduced to less than 500. “Now, no one gets benefitted due to restrictions and drought,” Jyothi said and added that many artists are currently working in knitting units in Tirupur and its surrounding areas.
 
 According to an assistant director, who did not want to be named, nowadays they prefer to go either to Karnataka or Kerala for cinema shootings as there was no restrictions in those states. 
 
 The Kerala government is charging just Rs 1,000 per day as rent whether it is a temple or forest, while Karnataka government is charging Rs 3,000 per day as rent for temples and Rs 10,000 per day for forest locations. “We are ready to pay Rs 10,000 per day even in Tamil Nadu. But, there is no permission for cinema shootings in Tamil Nadu,” the assistant director said.
 
 People in Gobichettipalayam urged the state government to lift all the restrictions imposed for cinema shootings as the district is now seeing with plenty of greenery scenes. 
 
 
