HYDERABAD: The  , which only the   rivals in grandeur, beauty and architecture, is under threat of “official vandalism.” A 100 feet road is being laid on a land parcel belonging to the historic mosque in   in violation of   orders. Heavy machinery is also used to level the ground causing vibrations and is threatening the foundation of the mosque built during the Qutub Shahi period.

 The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) gave an award to the Toli Mosque on World Heritage Day on April 18, 2005 for its architectural marvel and outstanding heritage value. According to city historians, the architecture of Toli Mosque is unique and reflects the high point in the Qutub Shahi style of architecture. They argue that construction of a wide road on the mosque land would not only rob it of its beauty but would also damage the structure due to constant vibrations caused by heavy traffic.
 
 The State Waqf Board on May 10 wrote to the GHMC commissioner urging him to stop work as it would invite the contempt of court. On Friday, Deccan Waqf Properties Protection Society president   submitted a memorandum to the civic authorities informing them of the orders of the Waqf Tribunal.
 
 “The land parcels belong to Toli Mosque and Dargah Hazrat Durvesh Mohiuddin Quadri. Much of the 27.30 acres of waqf land of these two religious places has been encroached upon. And now the civic body is laying the road further encroaching on the mosque land,”   told TOI, adding that Toli Mosque is a gazette notified waqf property (AP Gazette No 12-A pages 23 and 24, Sl No 1863 dated March 21, 1985). The new road connects Mughal Ka Nala with Puranapul.
 
 He said the waqf tribunal (OS No 80 of 2013 dated January 25, 2016) had restricted the civic body from laying the road. “Work on the road is going on at a brisk pace,” he added.
 
 Two inscriptions on the mosque premises put its age differently. While one inscription says the mosque was built in 1633 CE, another refers to the year of construction as 1671. It was built by Musa Khan Mahaldar, a chamberlain of King Abdullah Qutub Shah VII. The mosque is also called Damri (penny) Mosque as Musa Khan charged a nominal amount.
 
 INTACH city convener P Anuradha Reddy told TOI that the mosque is profusely decorated, and it is a “crowning glory” of the Qutub Shahi architecture.
 
