KOLKATA: State   officials are back to their drawing boards after the   directed the commission to redraw the poll schedule with a provision for a new nomination date for candidates who could not file nominations due to the continuing violence and obstructions from the ruling party. The challenge before the poll panel is to fit this new nomination date in the remaining poll process that is to be rescheduled in consultation with the state government.

 The commission now is weighing the options before it. The officials will first try not to disturb the state’s March 31 election notification and change the poll schedule, inserting an extra day for nomination. They are examining the scope of crunching the five-day gap between the date of scrutiny and the last date of withdrawal of nominations in the announced poll schedule, or cutting down on phases of polls. All these points came up in the meeting state election commissioner   had with his two   secretaries on Friday evening. Because, to keep the state election notification undisturbed, the SEC has to complete the poll process by May 15.
 
 Those who functioned as presiding officers in panchayat polls earlier maintain that it will be a tough task for the commission to complete the poll process by May 15 when the earliest possible date for holding the polls is May 13. “Even if the commission issues the notification today, fixing the nomination date on Saturday (April 21), there has to be a clear 21-day gap from the last date of nomination to the holding of polls. Going by the provision under the West Bengal Panchayat Act, 2003, the poll date can’t be before May 13. In such a situation, the commission can’t afford to go for a phased poll schedule because it has to keep the provision for re-poll and counting and handing over of certificates to winners all by May 15,” aformer presiding officer said.
 
 The apprehension is not without reason because the SEC will now have less time for the remaining poll process — scrutiny, last date of withdrawal, publishing the list of contesting candidates, allotment of symbols (reserved and free symbols), training poll officials, printing of ballot papers, holding of polls, re-polls, counting of ballots and handing over the certificates to winners.
 
 Experts endorsed the view and held that it’s better for the state to cancel the poll notification issued on March 31 and issue a fresh notification under Section 42 of the West Bengal Panchayat Act. “But this would require drawing up the entire poll schedule right from the date of nominations. In that case, each and every person willing to contest the polls including those who have already submitted their nominations, have to do that afresh,” a poll official said.
 
