JAIPUR: In a first, the state government has given the go ahead for constructions on   in  .

 
 The urban housing and development ( ) department and the directorate of local bodies (DLB) have jointly framed the model bylaws for the same.
 
 The move is expected to pave way for the construction of resorts, hotels, farmhouses and houses on hills. According to official sources, in many districts such as Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara etc there are many hills on land owned by private parties.
 
 However, due to the absence of bylaws, there were legal issues for construction on hill land.
 
 
 
 
 After receiving the approval from UDH minister  , the department has released the model bylaws and claimed that this would reduce illegal encroachment on hills in urban areas.
 
 The local bodies will also permit construction on private lands, which are marked as plantation area and hill conservation area in respective masterplans.
 
 “The owners will have to follow conservation rules during construction. Strict provisions have been incorporated against those who do not adhere to the bylaws,” an official said.
 
 As per the bylaws, construction will be allowed in only 20% of the total land area.
 
 The owners will have to develop a green belt in 50% of the land. It has also been made mandatory for owners to plant 150 trees in one hectare.
 
 To construct G+1buildings, there should be an approach road that’s three to six metres wide. For G+2 buildings, the road should have a width of six to nine metres.
 
 Similarly, constructions of up to 15m height (G+3) will only be allowed on land that has an approach road of above nine metres.
 
 It has also been decided not to give permission to construct basements.
 
 Moreover, permission will not be given for constructions on land in the five-metre periphery of any river or lake. “The bylaws are for new construction.
 
 This is not to regularise existing ones, which have been illegally constructed without any permission,” official sources said.
 
 
