My wife was diagnosed with   in 2014. We started treatment immediately but doctors told us that the disease was already at an advanced stage and chances of her survival were less than 50%. It meant that she won’t probably live for five years. It broke our hearts but there was nothing that we could do.

 For the next four years, her treatment continued and took us on a roller-coaster ride even as we swayed between occasional relief and despair. The final three months, leading to her death last week, were agonizing. She was in extreme pain and barely conscious. A day-and-half before she eventually passed away, the doctor said she will have to be put on ventilation. I asked him if it could revive her. I was told that the chances of an improvement in her condition were negligible. Then why prolong the agony? I had asked the doctor. He turned around and said that none could go against the normal course of treatment.
 
 It set me thinking. Is there any point in lengthening the trauma of a  ? Especially, when even the doctor knows that she is not going to recover. The   verdict will not only save terminally ill patients from suffering, it will also save their families from watching them suffer. Fortunately, my wife didn’t suffer more than a few months. But while she was being treated, I have come across scores of patients and their families who have lost everything in the course of treatment.
 
 Being a legal professional, I am aware of the legal hurdles, though. Under existing  , withdrawing life-support or helping a person to die could be categorized as culpable homicide or abetment to suicide. But the SC verdict has made it mandatory to write a living will in which you must lay down your wish not to live on life support. This leaves enough scope to Indianise the law and not be guided by the laws of some other countries which allow euthanasia. Euthanasia can never happen in India for there will invariably be foul play.
 
 (First-person account of a retired judge whose wife died of cancer last week after 3 months in extreme pain)
 
