LUDHIANA: The city’s fire department has no ready data on the exact number of no-objection certificates (NOCs) which have been issued to industrial and commercial units, even as much hue and cry has been raised in the city over fire hazards. 

 An official in the department has told The Times of India that they had not been able to manage the list of NOCs because of staff shortage. 
 
 In recent past, in most fires that have been reported in the city, industrial units and commercial establishments have been found to be lacking NOCs. In some instances, it has been found that the unit had not even applied for the  .
 
  assistant divisional fire officer Bhupinder Singh Sandhu though admitted to the staff not being able to have information on NOCs available readily, he said they had maintained a register in which they noted down every NOC issued by them. When asked if he could give an exact number, he could not.
 
 Because of the present situation, the fire department has to manually check its entire register on NOCs and this takes a lot of time. 
 
 Such has been the situation that the fire department had recently started a survey of city hospitals to check their fire-safety arrangements. This fire survey-cum-audit was also extended to industrial units, commercial establishments and schools. 
 
 Because it lacks enough data, fire officials had to request the industries department to send it a list of industrial units in the city so that they could serve them notices and check their premises.
 
 The fire department is still waiting for the list. As the department did not have enough staff, it had to later stop the exercise. 
 
 Sandhu said they lacked staff for even controlling fire incidents, so it was difficult to manage the list of NOC holders. “We can plan something for future, so that data can be uploaded online,” he said. 
 
 Last year, the MC decided to serve notices on 55,000 commercial, industrial and semi-industrial units who have paid property tax to the department. From these units, the department had earlier this year proposed to charge a fee for NOCs. However, the local bodies department did not gave a go-ahead to the move. 
 
 
