AHMEDABAD: The   on Thursday issued notices to the Centre and the  , over a petition filed by an elderly couple, who did not get their money back one year after they deposited it with the RBI in Mumbai after demonetization.

 Sixty-five-year-old Priyakant Upadhayay and his wife Tarlika, both retired government employees, had to deposit Rs 1.56 lakh in Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes, after the Centre’s decision to demonetize these denominations. They had to deposit the money with the RBI, because at the time the exchange was permitted – from November 8 to December 31 – the couple was in Australia, at their son’s place.
 
 On their return in January last year, they deposited Rs 1.56 lakh with the RBI in Mumbai, after the Ahmedabad branch refused to entertain them. According to the ordinance issued on December 30 — the Specified Bank Notes (Cessation of Liabilities) Ordinance, 2016 — the RBI was to accept such old demonetized notes till March end from citizens who were not in India to exchange their notes.
 
 The couple had gone to Australia on visitor’s visas in January 2016 and returned one year later. After depositing the money, they made repeated representations to the authority to credit the sum to them. “The couple got an SMS from the RBI in August saying that they are NRIs and not Indian citizens and are hence not eligible to be served under the scheme. As they are Indian citizens and had gone to Australia on visitor’s visas only, all proof to this regard was supplied to the RBI,” said their advocate Kiran Shah.
 
 The couple has further mentioned in their petition that they are required to go back to Australia again to look after their young granddaughter, but they are financially handicapped due to the delay and final refusal by the RBI to return the money. The RBI not returning their money is in violation of the ordinance issued on December 30 granting extension for those who were not present in India to deposit their demonetized currency notes for exchange.
 
 Apart from the deposited amount, the couple has claimed Rs 18,000 extra from the RBI, for expenses incurred on their visits to Mumbai. The court has posted further hearing on this plea on January 30.
 
 Earlier, an elderly couple, Rashmikant and  , who were in UK at the time of demonetization, had approached the high court after the RBI did not credit money to their accounts. Soon after their litigation, the bank returned Rs 47,000.
 
 
