John Abraham’s   and Prernaa Arora’s   have been engaged in a financial and legal tussle over ' : The Story of Pokhran' for the past few months and the latest development in the case took place on Monday. Producer Prernaa Arora, her mother and KriArj Entertainment’s director   and Arjun N Kapoor were present for the hearing along with legal representatives from nearly all parties involved. The case that was heard on priority was KriArj Entertainment V/s JA Entertainment, because it pertains to the film 'Parmanu: The Story of Pokhran', starring John Abraham, which is slated to release on May 25. Five other cases were to be heard by Justice Kathawalla in the   involving KriArj Entertainment (Gothic Entertainment V/s KriArj Entertainment, Padma Ispat V/s KriArj Entertainment, Padma Ispat V/s KriArj Entertainment, three others and Guy In The Sky Productions, Gothic Entertainment V/s KriArj Entertainment, 14 others and Guy In The Sky Productions and Padma Ispat V/s KriArj Entertainment and three others). 

 BT was present at the hearing that went on for about two hours. Since 'Parmanu' urgently needed clarity on its release plan, the court decided to speed up the case. The High Court has asked the parties involved to either find a solution agreeable to all parties before May 10 or the court will intervene on the terms of release and the cost of P&A (Prints and Advertising) among other things. The hearing to be held on May 10 is considered extremely crucial for all the parties involved. 
 
 The Judge brought up the consent terms that KriArj Entertainment had signed on April 20, 2018, for clearing pending dues and spending on the P&A of the film — spending Rs 7.5 crore by mid-May and depositing Rs 2.5 crore in an escrow account. Given that she had defaulted on the dates of payment and on other grounds, the matter was brought back to the High Court on May 2 and extensively heard on May 4.
 
 One of the suggestions that Justice Kathawalla made on Monday was that after 'Parmanu' releases, the court will sort out the monetary distribution of the film’s earnings — i.e. which production house will recoup their funds first and in what proportion. “There is no clear resolution in sight right now,” says a source close to Zee Studios, who are one of the parties involved in the Consent Terms. The source also adds, “The lawyers from Pooja Entertainment, Zee Studios and JA Entertainment were discussing a mutually agreeable solution to release the film on May 25. The discussion went on for more than an hour after the hearing.”
 
 A source from JA Entertainment told BT, “'Parmanu' has several stake holders, so now the onus is on the parties involved to find a middle ground to be able to file a new set of consent terms. It’s best if they decide to abide by them or the court will decide on the terms of recoupment because that’s one of the bigger disputes.”
 
 Meanwhile, a representative from KriArj Entertainment said that while they are willing to participate and find a solution to release 'Parmanu' with all parties involved, they have also been asked to file disclosure affidavits. They said, “KriArj and its directors’ assets and bank details have to be disclosed before the court as soon as possible.”
 
 To recap what led to the monetary mess regarding 'Parmanu' — Prernaa Arora had signed a `35 crore deal with John’s JA Entertainment, for the production of 'Parmanu'. The film, originally slated for a release on December 8, 2017, was pushed ahead to February 2018, to avoid a clash with 'Padmaavat'. It’s learnt that when Prernaa defaulted on clearing the final set of dues in time, John put out a public notice at the end of March stating that he had severed ties with her company. 
 
 JA Entertainment moved court on May 2, alleging that Prernaa’s company had defaulted on the consent terms that were agreed upon on April 20 and were signed by all parties involved. Prernaa and her company had agreed to clear dues of Rs 5.65 crore to JA Entertainment, in two parts — one payment each was due on April 27 and 29. They failed to keep their word citing that Protima Arora, the company’s official and only signing authority, was unwell. 
 
 
