NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Tuesday made it   to the   government that it has to   to its 2014 direction   the total   to be   to Delhi  .

 A bench of Acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar also ordered the Delhi government to immediately release money to carry out repairs in a sub branch canal that has suffered a breach. The court’s directions came on an application filed by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) seeking directions to Haryana government to maintain water supply levels fixed by the court earlier as 719 cusecs per day in the Munak canal and 330 cusecs per day in the Delhi sub branch canal.
 
 The bench reminded Haryana that it had agreed to abide by the court direction and any breach of its earlier undertaking can be viewed as contempt of court. Its direction to the neighbouring state came after senior advocate Rakesh Khanna, who is the court-appointed amicus curiae, told HC that the entire quantity of water, according to MoU and court orders, is not being released by Haryana.
 
 Meanwhile, the Haryana government informed the court that the entire process of awarding tender for the repair work in the canal will be completed in a month, once the amount is received. As per an existing memorandum of undertaking (MoU) between the two governments, repairs to the canal even if the breach is inside Delhi boundary, will be undertaken by Haryana and the cost will be borne by the Delhi government.
 
 Concerned over daily wastage of water due to the breach, HC directed both the states to take steps to carry out repair work immediately and asked Khanna to inspect the canal and submit his report before the next date of hearing on May 2.
 
 During the hearing, Haryana also claimed that the Delhi government owed it over Rs 280 crore in arrears and it cannot carry out repairs till payment for it is received. But senior advocate Dayan Krishnan, appearing for DJB, opposed Haryana’s contention on arrears and said that funds for repair work of Delhi sub branch canal has been sanctioned. The court was hearing a plea filed by advocate S B Tripathi, who has said the population in Delhi was increasing each day, but the raw water available to the city was the same or decreasing. 
 
 
