JAIPUR: Seeking admission in  , Jaipur? Give a call at the university and a teacher will knock at your door to grant you admission on the spot at both undergraduate and graduate level. 

 In a desperate move, Jagadguru Ramanandacharya   (Jaipur) has decided to grant on the spot admission to students by reaching out to them at different cities in the state. The university has formed teams which will travel across the state. They will reach out to the potential students by using their network. They were given a session on how to convince and counsel students for enrolling at the university.
 
  The initiative is first of its kind among the state varsities. The 'on the spot admissions' format doesn't require students to appear in any entrance test or to submit any documents during the admission. They have submit the documents after they were granted admission. The format 'On the spot' is very popular among coaching institutes, job fair etc. The move is the latest in the series of pulling students in the ancient language varsity. The university founded in 2006 has 250 students against the total strength of 1,200 students in 2017-18.
 
 "It appears that most of the students are not aware about the presence, significance and importance of Sanskrit. The on the spot admission scheme is meant to save students from the harassment of downloading application form, submitting the form and wait for the cut-off list. The process becomes irrelevant when number of applications is fewer than the number of seats," said Dr. Subhash Sharma, director-Campus studies,   told to TOI. The situation in the university is so poor that some academic departments like   have two assistant professor and two students enrolled in the current session. The absence of students has made the university student teacher ratio one among the best.
 
 The most popular courses-Sanjuktacharya (UG) in Veda has got only nine students against 50 students while in Acharya (PG) course it attracted 5 students against 30 seats in the current academic year. The Veda is considered to be scientific-cum-spiritual course intended to enhance the ancient scientific temperament of students laced with philosophical and spiritual understanding. Since its inception, the university has never been able to fill 100% seats despite it being the only university in the state. The first year saw 96 students in 2002-03 and touched a high of 732 in 2013-14 and 250 in 2017-18.
 
 
