HYDERABAD: Secunderabad Railway Police stacked ganja seized from smugglers in their lock-up next to workstations of sub-inspectors and constables in Secunderabad railway station, raising a pungent stink and even affecting complainants who visit the police station to lodge FIRs. Suspects lodged in lock-ups are close to the weed stock and police claim rats feed on marijuana. When TOI visited the police station, rats were spotted in the lock-up while an accused was lodged in an adjacent lock-up. As there are no storage rooms at police stations, a similar situation exists at SIT office at central crime station office, Himayatnagar, and excise stations in city.

 Speaking to TOI, Secunderabad railway inspector of Police S Chandraiah said: “We nabbed smugglers carrying ganja in train from   to Secunderabad. We seized the consignment and this is kept in our custody. We have to again take it to court while filing chargesheet and during the trial.”
 
 
 
  
 
 
 A railway police official said, “Rodents are drawn to stocks of ganja and nibble away.” According to N Anji Reddy, deputy excise superintendent, “we have faced this problem for years where ganja stocks get spoiled due to exposure to water, moisture and rats. Now, excise department has come out with a solution. We are using aluminium trunk boxes at excise stations to store the stock. There is also a legal provision of pre-trial destruction of property in presence of a magistrate after taking photograph proof.”
 
 CCS anti-narcotics cell officials said ganja seized by the agency are stocked at Himayatnagar SIT office. “After we present seized stuff in court, it hands it over to us for safe custody. We have no storage rooms for them and these are stored in lock-ups and malkhanas,” said an anti-narcotics cell official.
 
 In September 2017, Secunderabad   conducted ‘Operation Ganja’ and arrested eight smugglers in three separate cases. Police seized 200 kg marijuana worth Rs 30 lakh.
 
 In August 2017, Secunderabad Railway police nabbed five ganja peddlers and seized 220 kg of weed worth ?35 lakh. In August 2016, 130 kg of ganja was seized by Secunderabad railway police. Police said ganja is not only smuggled into the city, but also to   and Maharashtra from Vizag via Secunderabad.
 
 CCS efforts to destroy seized ganja with court permission are not moving forward. Officials said, “We want to destroy weed with court permission and we are still working on it.”
 
 In August 2017, police from Dhanbad, Jharkhand told a court that rats had eaten 45kgs of ganja that was kept in police possession. And in March the same year, Nagpur police said rats consumed 25kg of marijuana kept in their possession.
 
