BENGALURU: A day after governor Vajubhai R Vala hailed Karnataka for maintaining law and order in his address to the joint session of state legislature, the legislative assembly on Tuesday witnessed a high-voltage drama with the ruling   and opposition BJP crossing swords over killings of pro-Hindu activists, leading to adjournment of the House.

 Trouble started soon after question hour when opposition leader Jagadish Shettar made a preliminary submission after seeking to move an adjournment motion on the law and order situation in the state, and alleged that Karnataka has become the No 1 destination for crimes in the country under the Congress.
 
 
 Treasury benches took exception to the matter and an altercation broke out between senior Congress ministers and BJP members. Home minister Ramalinga Reddy, Bengaluru development minister K J George, water resources minister M B Patil and food and civil supplies minister U T Khader countered these charges, saying PM   was mute witness to the killing of 2,000 people during the Gujarat riots in 2002, when he was CM of that state.
 
 The issue led to frayed tempers, with George getting involved in a bitter exchange of words with BJP leaders, forcing speaker K B Koliwad to adjourn the House for lunch.
 
 After the debate, Reddy, responding to the law and order discussion, said that only 11 of the 25 murders of Hindu activists were political in nature, and killed by Muslims. According to him, the 11 murders included Paresh Mesta and K Santosh, though investigations are on in the two cases.
 
 “There is no mention by the BJP that 13 Muslim boys were murdered by Sangh Parivar affiliates like   and Vishwa Hindu Parishad workers,” he said. Reddy said 14 of the 25 activists died of other reasons and were not related to political issues.
 
 Earlier, speaking on the notice for an adjournment motion sought to be moved by the BJP, Shettar alleged that the government had failed to maintain law and order, leading to a spate of murders of BJP and pro-Hindu activists. He claimed that 26 youths belonging to the BJP, RSS and other pro-Hindu organizations had been murdered after Congress came to power.
 
 Though members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and Popular Front of India (PFI) were found to be directly involved in most of these cases, Shettar alleged that the government has not recommended to the Centre to ban PFI and SDPI as the Congress has a secret alliance with these organizations in the coastal districts.
 
 Reddy, responding to the allegations, said the Congress government had not withdrawn cases of heinous nature and had released only 301 Muslims in the past two years.
 
 “The BJP government, when in power from 2008 to 2013, did not ban the PFI and SDPI as they were politically motivated to keep the organizations around, considering that they eat into the Congress vote bank. Now they are demanding a ban,” Reddy said.
 
 The Congress government also failed to bring to book culprits behind the killing of journalist-activist Gauri Lankesh and rationalist MM Kalaburagi, Shettar alleged.
 
 Quoting   statistics, Shettar said Karnataka stands second, after Delhi, in the crime rate in the country and the reason was because the police have no free hand since they are being controlled by 'super home minister’, former IPS officer Kempaiah. Koliwad rejected the adjournment motion notice and allowed the issue to be taken up under a different rule.
 
