CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Friday directed the state government to consider and pass orders within six weeks, on a representation, which sought to revisit the existing   policy of the state.

 The petition moved by  , president of Advocates’   for Social Justice, also wanted the government to revisit   Retail Liquor Vending Rules in respect of relocation or establishment of Tasmac shops/bars in residential areas.
 
 The first bench of Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice   passed the order while disposing of the plea.
 
 According to petitioner, the Tamil Nadu Retail Vending (in shops and bars) Rules do not stipulate any distance rule prohibiting location of liquor shops in residential areas.
 
 Tasmac can locate retail vending shops next to a residential house unmindful of the disturbance it may cause to the families. Hence, there should be some filters in locating the retail vending liquor shops/bars in the residential areas, he added.
 
 Claiming that the authorities do not consider any objections raised by the public of the area in locating the retail liquor shops and bars, he said, “Any natural, spontaneous and public inspired agitation against the location of liquor shops or liquor bars was ruthlessly handled by the police as if the general public has committed grave crimes.”
 
 Pointing out that the Bombay Prohibition Act provides for a space for objection from the public with regard to opening of any liquor shops, the petitioner added that the Tamil Nadu government can have no reservation in considering similar provisions in the existing prohibition policy of the state.
 
 He also sent a representation to the state government suggesting amendment to Rules relating to location of liquor shops and bars in residential areas on a par with the prohibition policy adopted by the government of Maharashtra, giving due regard to the will of the people and to their objections. As there was no response to his representation, he has approached the court.
 
 
