GUNTUR: Even as the memories of the heinous   of a 9-year-old girl by a 55-year-old man at Dachepalle in Guntur district are still afresh, yet another rape incident of a   was reported on Saturday from the same place in the district. A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 55-year-old former MPTC from the 3rd ward in Dachepalle. The incident came to light after doctors confirmed that the girl was in the 3rd month of her pregnancy.

 SK Mahaboob Ali (55) allegedly lured the girl with money and took her to his home and has been raping her since the last four months. The girl dropped out of school after completing her 8th standard due to financial problems. According to the police, her mother died when she was a small child and the father works as a labourer. He was suffering with visual impairment and recently underwent an eye operation in Guntur. The girl used to work as a farm labourer and was living along with her sister, who, though married, has separated from her husband and staying with the father.
 
 Last Thursday, the minor girl fainted at her house and was taken to a private hospital where doctors upon examination of scanning reports confirmed that she was pregnant. It was then the victim told her sister about what Mahaboob Ali had been doing to her for the last four months.
 
 The family lodged a complaint with the Dachepalle police on Saturday following which a case of rape was booked and Mahaboob Ali detained. “Mahaboob Ali has been booked under the POSCO Act and further investigations are underway,”   said.
 
 In the complaint, the victim said Mahaboob Ali offered her Rs 1000 and offered to buy her whatever she wants if she came to his house. She had been doing so for the last few months and after every assault, the accused would give her Rs 100. The girl also said he had threatened to kill her if she told anyone about what is happening between him and her. Following the booking of the case, the minor girl was sent to Gurazala government hospital for medical examination.
 
 Meanwhile, the incident took a political turn after local YSR   leaders staged a protest outside the Gurazala government hospital on the charge that the accused belonged to the   and that ruling party leaders are trying to save him. However, TDP leaders said the party will take action against him and the police also will initiate criminal proceedings against Mahaboob Ali.
 
 Following the booking of the case, locals along with representatives of all political parties staged a protest on the Guruzala-Macherla road demanding justice for the victim and stringent punishment for the accused. Cops arrived at the scene after some time and dispersed the protesters.
 
 
 
