MYSURU/BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Chief minister   ruled out a tie-up with the JD(S) in the March 23   polls and angered   in the process. Gowda has convened a meeting in Bengaluru on Wednesday to review his party’s support to the ruling Congress in the   council.

 Siddaramaiah and KPCC president G Parameshwara will meet Congress chief Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Tuesday. The Congress with its strength in the legislative assembly can effortlessly win two seats, but will need support from elsewhere to get the third candidate elected to the upper house of Parliament.
 
 The JD(S) has set its sights on this third seat and had asked the Congress to back it in lieu of the support it has been extending to the ruling party in BBMP since 2015. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Monday Siddaramaiah said, “We don’t need (the support of) anybody in Karnataka. All we need is people’s support.”
 
 He ruled out a tie-up with JD(S) for the Rajya Sabha polls, but indicated that the party had not decided yet whether to field a third candidate. Siddaramaiah said he was all for secular forces joining hands to take on the BJP at the Centre, but maintained his party does not need the support of the Left or JD(S) to take on the saffron party in Karnataka or in the event of a hung assembly.
 
 The JD(S) has decided to field industrialist B M Farook as its candidate in the Rajya Sabha polls. Farook had lost the same elections in 2016, when seven JD(S) MLAs crossvoted for the Congress nominee K C Ramamurthy.
 
 Reacting to Siddaramaiah’s statement, Gowda, who is in New Delhi, said: “We have convened a meeting of our party’s parliamentary board on Wednesday where we will take a call on whether to continue the alliance with the Congress in the BBMP council.”
 
 Meanwhile, JD(S) sources said the party has anyway established contact with Congress higher-ups in New Delhi for an alliance. Rahul is scheduled to fly out of the country on March 7 and return on March 11. This is the reason why the meeting to discuss candidates for the Rajya Sabha polls was advanced to Tuesday. The last date for filing of nomination papers is March 12.
 
 
