HYDERABAD: The   has directed 21 companies in   and 30 companies in Andhra Pradesh to comply with new emission norms on captive   by December 31, 2018, or face action as per Environment Protection Act. And this may also include closure. The list comprises cement, pharma, sugar, infra, solvent and other companies from both Telugu states.

 The companies were asked to set up equipment to decrease sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen and particulate matter pollution.
 
 CPCB chairman SPS Parihar, in his directive to companies under Section 5 of Environment (Protection) Act said, “Environment ministry amended emission limits for particulate matter and notified new limits for sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen and mercury and water consumption limits for coal and lignite-based thermal plants. According to 2015 notification, all plants have to achieve emission targets by December 2017.” However, many failed to comply.
 
 
 
 Striking balance between environmental concerns and stability of power supply, the central pollution control board issued orders stating captive power plants based on solid fuels will comply with emission norms of particulate matter by December 31, 2018.
 
 Captive power plants which have to install technology to remove sulphur dioxide from fuel gases should comply by June 30, 2020.
 
 Those commissioned before 2003 have to achieve targets by December 2018, and those commissioned between 2004 and 2016 should comply with new emission limits by June 2020. Companies were directed to submit month-wise activity in two months to central and state pollution control boards, failing which action will be taken up as per law.
 
 In a separate, but related development, two major thermal power plants in Telangana, Ramagundam Thermal Power Station and Kothagudem Thermal Power Station were slapped with a fresh notice by the board stating that both the units have to comply with emission norms or these will be shut down by December 2019.
 
 The notice states both the plants should retrofit electrostatic precipitator and equipment to remove sulphur dioxide from fuel gas and should not operate beyond December 31, 2019 if they fail to comply with revised emission limits.
 
 
