PATNA: The state industries department will soon develop a manufacturing unit of electric vehicles spread over an area of 79 acres in Sasaram and owned by the Bihar Industrial Area Development Authority (BIADA). It will also come up with the Bihar Electric Vehicle Policy which will deal with issues related to the manufacture of electronic vehicles, their maintenance, charging stations and batteries.

 An announcement in this regard was made by industries minister   at a conference in Patna on Thursday to promote the use of e-vehicles.
 
 Addressing the conference, Singh said, “Over the past few years, e-rickshaws have made a remarkable growth across the state. However, at present, we lack infrastructure to support an e-transport system across Bihar. Focusing on development of the required infrastructure, the state industries department is inviting investments in IT-enabled services and electronic system design and manufacturing, under Bihar Industrial Investment Promotion Policy, 2016.”
 
 According to industries department officials, the Technology Development Board (TDB), established in September 1996, under the Technology Development Board Act (1995) of the Union ministry of science and technology has also expressed interest in providing support for development of an electric manufacturing unit as well as formulation of the policy. 
 
 TDB scientist Md Wahiduzzaman said, “Our purpose is to support indigenous researches. The electric vehicle policy envisages complete switch to electronic mode by 2030, creating more than one lakh job opportunities in the state. This policy also makes special provisions to support the construction of e-vehicle stations, including subsidized electricity rates for the manufacturers.”
 
 Elaborating on requirement of charging infrastructure for the vehicles, R S Srivastava, managing director of BIADA, said, “Firstly, we need to set up charging stations. We will ensure that all upcoming buildings should have space and provision for charging infrastructure.”
 
 Highlighting the key challenges for electric mobility, Pankaj Kumar Singh director (industries) said, “We need to ensure availability of quality power for charging stations with use of smart grids. A team of skilled engineers and technicians should always be available to rectify the issues.”
 
 
