NEW DELHI: The ‘Yuva Hunkar Rally’ by Gujarat MLA Jignesh   registered a poor turnout on Tuesday with less than 200 people turning up. Delhi  , which had denied permission to Mevani to hold the rally on Monday, didn’t stop   from   at the high security area around the Parliament even though a very tight security cordon had been laid out. 

 Police said the protesters were not evicted due to low turnout and no movement from the spot. But the area was made out of bounds for vehicles as the rally organisers set up a temporary stage with chairs blocking the road. 
 
 Initially, around 1,400 personnel, including those from central police forces, had been deployed in the expectation of about 1,000 protesters. But in the afternoon, forces were gradually withdrawn. Mevani, while addressing the gathering, blamed the low attendance on the rumour that the rally had been cancelled. He also said that disallowing an elected representative from speaking was a conspiracy.
 
 Additional CP (New Delhi) B K Singh said the protesters were allowed into Parliament Street after organisers gave assurance that they would not indulge in any violence. “Our objective was to maintain peace in the area. A team was kept on standby to prevent any untoward incident. They were not stopped from organising a rally since they agreed to contain themselves at Parliament Street,” Singh said. 
 
 Apart from Mevani, the rally was also attended by Assam activist Akhil Gogoi, who was recently released after being jailed under National Security Act (NSA). Gogoi joined others on the stage and said, “Farmers, women and the minorities are unhappy in this country. We had asked for ‘achhe din’, but where is it?”
 
 Gogoi also spoke against the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill 2016 and said it would “change the demography of Assam by bringing in illegal Bangladeshi Hindus”. 
 
 Joining the political activists was Swaraj Abhiyan leader and senior advocate Prashant Bhushan who raised concerns about Indian culture. Bhushan said during the Emergency, democracy was under threat, but now it is the Indian heritage that is under strain.
 
 “Our generation has failed the country,” Bhushan said. Kanhaiya Kumar also attended the rally.
 
 Mevani reiterated that he and his struggle were not against any religion, community or caste. “We believe in the Constitution and trust in the philosophy of Savitri Phule, Ambedkar, Bhagat Singh and others. You continue to put false charges on us but we will continue to sing our message of love and talk about the poor and the oppressed,” the Dalit leader said.
 
 Holding the Constitution in one hand and the Manusmriti in the other, the Vadgam MLA announced that he would raise the issues of all the oppressed, both in Gujarat assembly and on the streets. Mevani demanded the release of Bhim Army leader Chandrashekhar Azad ‘Ravan’. 
 
 
