NAGPUR: In India, there are many misconceptions regarding  , but according to experts, it is completely different from other alcoholic drinks and consumers should first do a homework before drinking it. 

 Experts from ‘Nagpur Wine Lovers Club’ told TOI, “Against the common perception that alcoholic drinks mature with the passage of time, wine turns into vinegar if consumed after three days, once the bottle is uncorked.”
 
 They were speaking on the sidelines of press meet to announce the much-awaited ‘Nagpur Wine and Food Festival’ to be inaugurated on Saturday at   at 5.30pm. Wineries, including Grover-Zampa, Rhythm Winery, Pause, Good Drop Wine Cellars, and Sway, apart from Sula, are participating. The fifth edition of the popular event would be held under ‘Nagpur Agro Development Association’.
 
 “We always advise the wine consumers to get the bottle uncork in front of them, whether it is a restaurant or pub. Many a time, restaurateurs offer wine which was opened long back, as they too are ignorant of the fact that its taste turns sour. Nowadays, producers have introduced 250ml bottles, equivalent to one glass,” said Deepak Khanuja, a member of the club.
 
 Explaining wine making further, Nagpur Agro Development Association chief coordinator   said that like other alcoholic drinks, even wine is stored in wooden barrels, which gives it a typical taste. “In some countries like Russia and Greece, it is stored underground. It’s only a purest form of alcohol, which is actually good for health,” said Phadnis.
 
 Deliberating on the popularity of port wine, member Sudhir Kunte said it couldn’t be termed as fermented wine as it was made from external alcohol and sugar. “It contains much higher percentage of alcohol.”
 
 The trio added that the wine festival has been organized with an aim of removing many misconceptions and to develop wine culture in the city. “The festival would have seven food stalls serving delicious cuisines along with the wine. 
 
 “We haven’t changed the entry fee of Rs300 since last five years. The visitors would be provided an entrance kit comprising six wine tasting coupons, glass, and brochures on etiquettes of wine consumption. They can consume 30ml at each of six wineries’ stall in a single coupon.”
 
 On Sunday, the festival would be open from 12.30pm to 10.30pm and a live band would entertain the guests on both days. “We’re expecting a footfall of over 3,000 as best quality wine would be available for the visitors at a nominal cost. We promote only Indian brands and have also kept our entry fees at pittance as compared to Rs2,500 at the Sula festival in  ,” they said.
 
 The festival would be inaugurated by Vallone Vineyards founder  , Bengaluru-based wine maker Abhay Kewadkar, Sula director   and Nashik-based consultant Ajay Shaw at 5.30pm on Saturday.
 
 
