BENGALURU:   at the   (UAS) are all set to increase the breeding of a   to contain the spread of  ,   that is killing undergrowth in forests across the state.

 Lantana lace bug (tingid) is considered an effective biological solution to control growth of the weed, one of the reasons for the spread of forest fires. 
 
 Prabhu Ganiger, entomologist at UAS, said they have submitted a proposal to the government to carry out field studies and devise methods in which the number of Mexican bugs can be multiplied to control these weeds. “In Bandipur forest range, these bugs are found to be feasting on lantana camara, resulting in drying of the shrubs. We are thinking of increasing their numbers in natural environs as developing them in labs will be a tough task. However, all this can be done only after our proposal is approved by the forest department,” he added.
 
 Ganiger said they have to ensure the Mexican bug doesn’t turn into a pest for agricultural crops, though past studies say it is not harmful to other forest flora and farm crops.
 
 A senior forest department official said they will soon allow field trials on these bugs in selected forest patches in the state.
 
 The bug’s effectiveness on lantana was first observed during last year’s elephant census, where it had dried out over 2,000 hectares of the weed in two months. Following this, the forest department submitted a report to the National Tiger Conservation Authority and the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change. “If bug-control of lantana proves effective at a large scale in Karnataka, the same can be replicated in other parts as the weed has spread across 13 million hectares in India,” said a senior forest officer.
 
 Journey of a bug
 
 Lantana lace bug originally belongs to Mexico and was first introduced in Hawaii for biological control of lantana weed. Later, it was introduced in Australia
 
 In 1941, the bug was brought to India for a laboratory study in Dehradun, from where it is said to have escaped quarantine
 
 Forest Research Institute in Himachal Pradesh later distributed the bug in Dharampur-Kasauli area in 1972, Bhopal in 1975 and Shillong in 1976
 
 Insect presence rampant in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh 
 
 Source: Karnataka forest department
 
 
