BENGALURU: If a student is sexually harassed by a professor or a collegemate, chances are she wouldn’t know where to report the incident, according to a   by The Students Outpost (TSO), a collective of Bengaluru-based students. The group is planning to protest the lack of proper redressal mechanism in city  .

 On surveying 239 students from 20 colleges, TSO found that 31% were unaware whether their college had a system in place to address   cases, while 53% said their colleges housed an internal complaints committee (ICC).
 
 “Though there is a UGC notification titled the ‘University Grants Commission (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal of Sexual Harassment of Women Employees and Students in Higher Educational Institutions) Regulations, 2015’, many institutions don’t comply with it. Many have not set up an ICC, while in others, the panel remains only on paper,” wrote TSO in letters to UGC,   and the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). 
 
 “Further, while information on the ICC, including contact details of its members, are supposed to be put up on notice boards, this rule is not being properly implemented. As a result, most students have no idea where the committee is located,” it added.
 
 Just under a year old, TSO already has more than 500 members on its Facebook group, with 10-15 of them meeting regularly in   to discuss issues dealing with the rights and entitlements of students. The group decided to take up the survey after several members raised concerns regarding the difficulty in redressing grievances related to sexual harassment in colleges.
 
 “I was sexually assaulted by a fellow student at a friend’s house in October 2016, and when my father and I approached my college principal, he didn’t take it seriously, and instead said I should’ve been properly dressed. When we talked about filing an FIR, he dissuaded us and said it would make the college look ‘bad’ in media. While the assault happened outside college, the perpetrator continues to make me feel uncomfortable within the college premises,” said a final-year BA student, adding that the college still didn’t have an ICC.
 
 “We are planning to hold a protest on Monday evening, demanding that ICCs be established, that existing committees comply with UGC guidelines, and that elected student representatives be included in the board as per the guidelines,” said Mounica Sreesai of TSO.
 
