Chandigarh: Worried for the upcoming board exam? There is a piece of advice from Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) experts for the Class XII students taking   exam on Tuesday. As per the city-based Physics experts good sleep, revision and memorizing formulas is all that students must do, a day before the exam on Monday.

 They have further cautioned the students to not follow the previous years’ question papers as the CISCE has changed the examination pattern.
 
 “Just go through the past year question papers to assess the level of difficulty of the examination. Ipso facto, the format of question paper has changed effective this year. Hence, do not follow the pattern of previous year questionnaires,” said D Pant, head of department of Physics from St Xavier’s Senior Secondary School, Chandigarh.
 
 He further emphasized that the students must follow only notes for revising the course material. “The students should make a separate copy for revising formulae and units of physical quantity of each chapter and on the day of exam day revise from the copy that they have noted.”
 
 In order to bust the examination stress they opined that students should shirk away the thought that these are Board examination as this will only magnify the pressure.
 
 “The students should primarily understand that this is just another examination and it will be on the same lines as any other exam for which they have appeared in the past years. So, how is this exam any different? The addition of one word —‘Board’ is not going to make any difference and will not decide the fate. Just relax, do not get anxious, avoid the pressure and motivate oneself by constantly telling yourself that that your preparations for the exam are on track,” said Rohit Rana, a Physics teacher from Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26.
 
 Around 10 students from Strawberry School will be appearing for the physics paper.
 
 The academicians also advised to make clear and concise flowcharts and a formula list for each chapter. “They could revise right before they take the exam from these flowcharts and formulae tables. If any student finds any topic difficult, segregate the topic into sections and make a flow chart. Write only those terms which are important to remember or those keywords which can form a link to formulate the answers,” Rana stated. The teachers also said that students must avoid any silly mistakes and carefully write the exams.
 
 BOX |
 
 Tips for Physics (Theory) Class XII – ISC
 
 How to attempt?
 
 > Make use of the 15 minutes reading time. Read the question paper carefully and accordingly plan a strategy for attempting.
 
 >If you’re sure about the 5-mark questions, attempt them first. This will boost confidence and reduce any chances of tizzy towards the end.
 
 >In 1-mark questions, do not give explanations. Only write the relevant answers in a word or line.
 
 >For Optics, draw labelled diagrams with pencil.
 
 > Revise only from notes
 
 > Do not study anything new just before the exam.
 
 > Make flowchart/formula list of each chapter for clarity on concepts
 
 >Have proper sleep (At least 6-8 hours to get energetic)
 
 >Have proper diet
 
 > Manage time
 
 Box Focus here | These can fetch you more marks
 
 Chapters like Electrostatics, Electromagnetism, Optics, Semi-Conductors should be given focussed during revision as they carry maximum marks.
 
 BOX |Work on presentation:
 
 The answers should be presentable as they act like a mirror and reflect the confidence-level of a student while answering the questions.
 
 Try to explain answer with the help of the formula or figure, if possible.
 
 First write down the formula and then solve numericals, step by step citing proper units.
 
 During derivation, write adequate steps which should be well-explained and don’t take any shortcuts to derive the formula.
 
 In conceptual questions, first write formula and then try to justify or give reasons for the answer.
 
 
