BENGALURU:   of the II PU examinations which concluded on March 17 will be announced in the last week of April, primary and secondary education minister   said on Tuesday. 

  of II PU answer scripts will begin on March 26 at 53 centres — up from 42 last year — set up across the state,   said. On lecturers’ threat to boycott evaluation over wage issues, the minister said he will meet them on Wednesday to address their concerns. Results of the SSLC exams, to be held from March 23 to April 6, will be out in the first week of May, he added.
 
 Sait said appointment orders for evaluation work have been sent to 23, 890 lecturers and principals. A total of 6,90,150 students from 4,725 colleges had registered for the examinations.
 
 “The supplementary examinations for II PU students have been advanced by two months from July to the last week of May,” Sait said, adding that the number of absent students for each of the PU exams varied from 1%-2%. He said I PU supplementary exams will be held from April 16 to 28.
 
 Students can send applications for a scanned copy of their answer scripts, and apply for re-evaluation as well as pay fees for the services online. 
 
 Bow or wow: Students complain of errors
 
 The II PU examinations may have passed off as a smooth affair this year but students are rankled over errors creeping into their question papers. The English question paper had printed what should have been “bow” as “wow’ and another question was grammatically incorrect. Students had complained of a wrong question with five marks in physics paper and demanded grace marks.
 
 “An expert committee has found that the question was indeed in the textbook but the students seem to have missed it. The matter is now before an external committee. After the evaluation, we will see how many students attempted it and got it wrong or right. Based on the findings, we will take a call on grace marks,” Sait said.
 
 He admitted that the question papers were not proofread in order to maintain secrecy, Next year, a committee would look into what could be done to ensure they are proofread, while also maintaining secrecy, he added. “We have prepared a scheme of evaluation, according to which no grace marks will be awarded. But if questions are wrong or out of syllabus, a team of experts will take a call,” Sait said.
 
 
