CHENNAI: Six years after a school student returning from tuition was electrocuted in the city due to negligence of electricity board staff, the   ( ) on Tuesday directed the state government to pay a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the family of the deceased boy.

 On June 6, 2011, S Harish, then a Class 12, student was electrocuted when he came in contact with a live wire that got snapped after heavy rains and gale that night. He was returning home after tuition classes when the incident happened around 8.30pm near Saligramam bus stand. 
 
 According to a petition by the boy's father, N Srinesh, the public had intimated the electricity department and the police about the cable snap, an hour before the incident and no action was taken by the electricity board staff.
 
 "My wife and I were not allowed to retrieve our son's body for nearly two hours, as   had not responded and power cable was still alive. We were helplessly watching our son lying dead in rain for nearly two hours," the petition stated. 
 
 Responding to the allegations, S  , then assistant engineer, TNEB, Dhasarathapuram denied the allegations and deposed before the commission that he received information from the technical assistant on duty in Virugambakkam sub-station around 8pm. He also told that he directed her to send a staff to switch off the feeder and he reached the spot immediately. In his response, the assistant engineer maintained that it was false to allege that the public intimated the electricity department about the snap one hour before the incident but no action was taken for nearly two hours.
 
 However, SHRC member D Jayachandran rejected the submissions and concluded that there was no material evidence provided to substantiate their version of events. Further, an enquiry by the investigation wing of the commission found that no staff from the electricity board had attended the spot in time to disconnect power supply even after the boy's death. 
 
 "None of the respondents examined as witnesses gave rebuttal evidence. Material available on record gives a clear indication that the incident was purely on account of negligence of electricity board," Jayachandran said. 
 
 The commission recommended the state government to pay a compensation of Rs.10 lakh with interest at the rate of 7.5 per cent per annum from June 2011 within two months and also recommended the government to give suitable instructions to the electricity board to be vigilant in maintenance of electric lines, especially during rainy season. 
 
 
