KOCHI: Solar scam inquiry commission did not go beyond its terms of reference, state government has contended before the high court.

 Former chief minister   had not questioned the terms of reference or the procedure followed by the commission even once when the inquiry was on. When the commission’s report turned out to be against him, he has now raised allegations against the commission to save his face, government argued.
 
 The government’s submission was in the form of an affidavit filed in response to a petition by Chandy, seeking to quash the commission’s report.
  
  
 Through the petition,   had challenged the commission’s decision to treat prime accused   S Nair’s letter as evidence. The commission based its findings solely on the letter allegedly written by Saritha while in jail, the CM’s petition said.
 
 On the allegation on exceeding the terms of reference, government pointed out that the scope of the inquiry was fixed as per records given by the government and the terms of reference were subsequently decided and an order was issued. But this order was never questioned while the commission was conducting the inquiry or after the report was submitted.
 
 Government has also denied the allegation that Saritha’s letter should not have been included in the scope of inquiry. A probe on the allegations in the letter was one of the demands raised by the  , which was in opposition, and it was the then government itself that suggested for including the letter in the inquiry, the government informed.
 
 Refuting Chandy’s allegation that the commission relied solely on Saritha’s letter, the government said many photographs, videos, records, revelations, statements, and complaints were considered by the commission. Details regarding formulation of the government’s policy regarding solar energy and the monetary transactions related to it are also mentioned in the letter.
 
 At the same time, the commission did not conduct an inquiry regarding the criminal offences mentioned in the letter but only recommended for further action.
 
 On Chandy’s contention on denial of natural justice, government said the commission followed the legal requirement of issuing notice to the accused and they were given a chance of hearing too.
 
 The former CM’s ‘marathon’ deposition before the commission was also referred to by the government. When Chandy was asked whether incamera proceedings was required, he had stated that there was no need.
 
 Chandy’s argument that Saritha was an unreliable witness cannot be accepted, government claimed. If a person who is not creditworthy tells facts, it cannot be turned down as unbelievable. A hearing in the case is scheduled for February 7.
 
 
