The anticipation and eagerness towards attending Happy Streets among the general public seems to be only increasing every passing week, as the 10th edition of the programme held at Chithirai Veedhi (South) in Srirangam on Sunday received an overwhelming response. Those who have been attending the programme ever since the initial weeks, not only raved about the concept, but also said how the programme has influenced them to have a more positive attitude towards life. Times of India, with the support of Trichy Corporation and Trichy City Police, kick-started Happy Streets programme at Thillai Nagar 10th Cross Street (west) on February 25. A city-based entrepreneur, Ameet Asrani, who has been attending Happy Streets right from the third week, said that the programme has brought a colourful dimension to the city. He added that the programme also served as an inspiration for him to set new fitness goals. "At a time when people only resort to their gadgets for everything, Happy Streets has proved that there is no substitute for the good-old practice of coming together as a community and engage in a group activity," he said. The Sunday’s programme featured activities that have, so far, yielded a great response from the participants, including the yoga session, spiritual session, zumba, dance contest, skating and IQ-based contests for children. The main reason for the success of Happy Streets is its emphasis towards physical and mental well-being, stated K Shanmugam a representative from Brahma Kumaris. "Over the past couple of years, the awareness towards physical and mental health among people has really increased. The only thing, which people needed, was a perfect platform, where various kinds of fitness activities would be taught and Happy Streets has provided them exactly that," he said. Another regular at the events, B Chandrasekar, said, "I don’t think there are any better initiatives that are being organised in the city for kids to enjoy and build their IQ," he stated. The skaters from Srirangam Roller Skating Academy gave yet another exhilarating performance. The Happy Streets initiative will be conducted on Sundays over the course of next two weeks in Trichy from 6 am to 9 am.