PALAKKAD: The infant girl, born at   District Hospital on December 25 to a couple from Kaniyarkode at Kunisseri and allegedly sold to a family at Erode in   after four days, was recovered and brought back to Palakkad by a team of police officers headed by Alathur CI K A Elizabeth on Saturday.

  The police arrested Janardhanan, who allegedly bought the infant, and Kasturi who helped him.   was arrested from   bus stand on Saturday, the police said. On getting information from him, the infant was recovered from a house at Erode.
 
  The police said the infant is in good health and is under the care of Anand Bhavan, Malampuzha, under the government.
 
  The four other children of the couple were also brought to   for their upkeep under instructions from the  . The couple, Bindu (34) and Raj (44), told the police that they sold their fifth child as they were poor and hence, unable to look after him.
 
  It had come to light that the newborn was allegedly sold after four days for Rs 1 lakh by the family members and the incident came to light when the mother returned to her house at Kaniyarkode without the child from her husband's house at Pollachi.
 
  Local residents who grew suspicious informed the Child Welfare Council, which inquired into the matter and found that the child was given to a couple at Erode. On its complaint, the Alathur police filed a case against Bindu and Raj and his mother Viji (62).
 
  The family members informed the police that the infant was given to a family friend in Pollachi. Meanwhile, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has sought a report from the state governments of Kerala and Tamil Nadu on the alleged sale of the infant girl to a Pollachi couple. 
 
 Woman held for bid to kidnap 2-year-old:: A 33-year old nurse was arrested for trying to kidnap a two-day-old baby from Thrissur district hospital on Saturday. According to the complaint received by the police, Priyanka tried to kidnap the baby of   resident Benzy. Relatives became suspicious when Priyanka came to the ward as hospital staff and tried to take away the baby to administer some medicine. However, she could not give a satisfactory answer when relatives questioned her. They informed hospital authorities, who in turn alerted the police.
 
 Preliminary probe indicated that the woman, who is a real nurse, had apparently lied to her husband that she was pregnant and the kidnap attempt was made to cover up the lie.
 
 
