BENGALURU: Hard work by police may have ensured incident-free New Year’s Eve celebrations in the city, but it also left the excise department high and dry. Liquor sales recorded a sharp dip on December 31 in the city, and stakeholders attributed it to police steps to rein in revelry.

 Though there was a downslide in the sale of both Indian made liquor ( ) and beer on December 30 and 31 across the state, the dip was sharper in Bengaluru, where enhanced security marked all the revelry hubs.
 
 As per the excise department’s records, 1.16 lakh boxes of IML (each box contains 8.64 litres) were sold in Bengaluru in the last two days of 2017, against 1.32 lakh boxes sold in the same period in 2016. 
 
 In a clear indication that celebrations were drier, only 18,000 boxes of IML were sold on December 31, while 51,000 boxes were sold on December 31, 2016.
 
 Even beer sales recorded a slump. While 34,000 boxes of beer were sold on December 31, 2016, only 15,000 were sold on the last day of 2017. 
 
 “In a bid to avert the repeat of unpleasant incidents that took place on Brigade Road on December 31, 2016, police took extra caution this time and as a result, the number of revellers visiting pubs and bars came down. Many did not venture out of home, fearing untoward incidents,” said G Honnagiri Gowda, president of Karnataka Wine Merchants’ Association. 
 
 There were 1,600 police personnel on MG Road and Brigade Road on Sunday night, while there were only 600 cops monitoring the area in 2016.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Brigade Road was closed before the strike of midnight and revellers had to confine themselves to MG Road. Although pubs were allowed to stay open till 2am, pub owners said police forced them to close their business much earlier.
 
 “We had fewer patrons. And police said we should stop serving liquor after midnight for security reasons, and we had to oblige,” said the manager of a pub on Church Street.
 
 The dip in sales comes despite excise officials allegedly forcing buyers to lift more stocks of IML to help them achieve the steep annual revenue target of Rs 18,050crore fixed for the department for the year 2017-18. 
 
 “While the demand is higher for beer, excise officials said we are allowed to buy beer only if we buy more IML. If we wanted to lift 20 boxes of beer, we had to buy at least 100 boxes of IML. However, we could not sell that much of IML,” said  , owner of a retail liquor outlet on St Mark’s Road. 
 
 Excise officials, however, sought to blame the downslide on various factors, including demonetization and the impact of GST. The ban on liquor sales on highways only added to the problem and business was yet to recover after the ban was lifted in August, they claimed.
 
 “You should note that the dip in business was not restricted to the last two days of the year; the growth curve for the entire month had been flat. While 11.55lakh boxes of IML were sold in December last year, it was only 11.59lakh boxes in the month this year,” said Rajendra Prasad, joint commissioner of excise.
 
 
 
 Five-star hotels, though, recorded a 30% spike in food business on New Year’s Eve. K  , president of South Indian Hotels and Restaurants Association, said special combo packages that came with food and liquor along with DJ nights, helped over 20 star hotels in the city make good business.
 
 “The package price ranged from Rs 500 to Rs 700 per couple, and business was fairly good on New Year’s Eve. However, room occupancy was lower by 25% as people seem to have gone out of the city for celebrations,” Syama Raju said.
 
