JAIPUR: One of the oldest opera houses in north India-the Opera Style Theatre ( ) in   palace in Jhalawar district-is all set to become a cultural hub again, recalling its heydays when it staged both Indian and international plays of repute. 

 Constructed in 1921, the OST, a fusion of European and Indian styles, was built by the then ruler of Jhalawar state,  , a patron of arts.
 
 
  The Opera Style Theatre in Gadh Mahal palace in Jhalawar district 
 
 Other than plays by Kalidasa, Shakespeare and Oscar Wilde, the   has also seen a performance of the Hamlet by Irish theatre artist Charles Doran (1877-1964) in the 1930s.
 
 Now, a team of curators from across the country are planning the restoration work, announced by chief minister Vasundhara Raje in the Budget 2018 to bring it back to its old glory. Its 300-feet stage, the orchestra pit, verandahs, seating and curtains-reminiscent of opera houses in Europe-lie in a dilapidated condition.
 
 The expensive plays and wardrobe, dance shows and the library were sponsored by Bhawani Singh and later his son Rajendra Singh till Independence.
 
 When the Jhalawar state merged with India, the rulers lost control of Gadh Mahal and the opera house. From then, the OST began its journey into oblivion. From a world-class opera house, it transformed into a cinema hall after Independence. Later, for a brief period, it was in the limelight again and drew the attention of royals, high-ranking British officials and featured in some black and white movies in the 1930s and 40s before turning into a venue to host district-level badminton tournaments.
 
 The majestic building was once described as a jewel in north India and had a capacity to seat 1,000 people. The floor was covered with red carpet and had comfortable chairs for guests. The most striking feature of the house was its 30-metre-long velvet curtains with a floral design.
 
 "The stage is so wide that real chariots, horses, elephants, bulls and cows were part of the plays. The magnificent stage had no parallel in Asia during that period," said Rajyapal Sharma, convener, Indian National Trust for Arts and Cultural Heritage (INTACH).
 
 While details of its architect are little known, local historians say that the architecture was inspired by Bhawani Singh's travelogue (Memoirs of his European tour) published in 1911. A British official in Jhalawar is said to have designed the house. 
 
 "His highness had keen interest in drama, theatre, music and art. The building is a testimony of his love for art," said Sharma.
 
 The structure has been built in such a way that sunlight reaches every corner of the house. The restoration project, meanwhile, is likely to start in the coming months. District collector Jitendra Soni of Jhalawar says, "The aim of restoration is to recreate the opera house as a hub of international cultural activities."
 
 
