KOCHI: Though most parents agree that   can be  , they are of the view that it would save them from having to mug up as the teachers rush through the syllabus without comprehending anything.

 Teena Tony, mother of a Class X student, said she received an SMS from the school that there won’t be extra classes in the summer in the wake of the recent order issued by Kerala government.
 
 “In general, parents on our Whatsapp group were unhappy about this decision. It is a fact that the syllabus is extensive and that the board examination is important. If the school plans to rush through the syllabus and completing it before the month of December, students will be at a disadvantage. The child would have bear the pressure in the last minute,” said Tony.
 
 She said that either the board must reduce the syllabus so it can be taught to the student properly within the time available or allow the   to conduct extra classes in a reasonable manner.
 
 Several parents have also begun searching for options to prepare their wards for the board examination via tuition classes during the holidays to compensate for the absence of the summer classes.
 
 “I will most likely enrol my son for tuitions during the summer break. Now that there are no classes during summer, it is likely that student will be made to rush the through the syllabus once the school reopens. Tuition would only be couple of hours during the days, so he would be able to make good of the holidays as well,” said Manju K S, mother of a Class X student.
 
 Devi Mahesh said her son’s school had to cancel the summer classes for Class X last year because of the directive against extra classes.
 
 “It was the first time that he had to write a full syllabus examination. At the end of the year the school was a rush to complete the portion,” she said. Some parents are also of the opinion that the student is better off without the summer classes.
 
 “It is very important they have a break and step out to do different things and meet new people. During the school months, they don’t have this opportunity,” said Sreeja Ajith, parent of a student who wrote the Class X exam.
 
