PANAJI: After investigating it as a   case over the course of close to a year, the crime branch of the Goa police has filed a closure report in the death of social activist,   from St Estevam, citing ‘mistake of facts’. TOI had first reported that the case would be closed due to ‘mistake of facts’.

 In April 2017, the death of the activist was registered as murder on the directive of the High Court of Bombay at Goa. Speaking to TOI, SP (crime branch) Karthik Kashyap said, “The crime branch have filed the ‘C final’ report before the sessions court on Thursday in the Dias murder case, which means mistake of facts.”
 
 Kashyap said, “The petitioners in the High Court provided us names for the investigation. We have recorded the statements of all those people and there is no evidence in the case. We have found that it’s an accidental death.”
 
 The crime branch said that on the basis of scientific, forensic, and circumstantial evidence, it can be clearly concluded that it (Dias’ death) was accidental death and no foul play can be suspected.
 
 In October 2017, the district and sessions court had rejected an application of the crime branch seeking permission to conduct a polygraph (lie-detector) test on the two boys who were the last to see the social activist alive.
 
 Dias went missing on the night of November 5, 2015, after he went for a swim in St Estevam. Dias and the two boys had camped at a hut for the night near the   sluice gate, a water body on the north eastern part of St Estevam, along the river. The boys told police that Dias had gone for a swim alone.
 
 On November 7 that year, the social activist’s body was found floating in a tributary of the Mandovi near Cupa, St Estevam. Police investigations had established his death was from drowning, but Fr Dias' friends, family as well as social activists refused to accept this version. They alleged that the Old Goa police did not conduct a proper investigation and demanded that the case should be transferred to the crime branch of Goa police. 
 
 Following directives of then chief minister, Laxmikant Parsekar, the case was transferred to the crime branch. The crime branch concluded that there was no foul play, and that Dias had died from drowning. The case was subsequently closed. 
 
 Later, three of Dias' friends moved the High Court seeking a direction to the police to register the case as murder.
 
 
 
