CHANDIGARH: All rainy days in the past five months have turned out to be torturous for the shopkeepers of Sector 35-D. Business took a hit on these days, because the water from the parking lot gutters start flushing back and gathering around the shops.

 
 
  
 Regular visitors avoided visiting the market for routine purchase during these days. For the past two months, the shopkeepers have been posting this issue on the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan app after every rain. Every time, the reply says ‘issue attended and resolved’, even though the ground reality remains unchanged. During a visit to market after a spell of rain on Wednesday, the TOI team found that sewage from the parking lot gutters was flushing back into the parking lot and spreading all over.
 
 The parking area soon became unusable for the commuters. The bad odour of sewage was all over the parking lot. Shopkeepers complained that they had been living with it for the past five months. They are tired raising the issue with the  . Sector-35 market committee secretary Rahul   said: “On Wednesday, when the official visited again and did not take any action, I posted again on the app that that their work was unsatisfactory. It has become a routine for them to visit the market and ask the sweeper to sweep aside a little water and leave the sewers choked.”
 
 Mangal claims that the municipal workers who responded to the complaints had told the shopkeepers that the   line was blocked but they were in the process of taking a decision upon the repair action. He said he had registered these complaints under the public toilets column, since the app had no link for reporting sewer  . Dr Vipin Sachdeva, who runs a clinic at the market, said: “Last year, the sector had a large number of people down with dengue fever. The civic authorities are taking no preventive measures even this time. May patients couldn’t reach the clinic because it meant wading through stinking, stagnant water around the shop. This block of the market has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes.”
 
 
