BENGALURU:  's repeated assertions that he would be "king" and not "kingmaker", in the runup to the May 12 assembly elections, was greeted with disbelief by most, but the 58-year-old JD(S) state president is having the last laugh as he gets ready to be sworn in chief minister of   on Monday.

 
 There was often a tinge of desperation to assertions by Kumaranna, as he is called by his followers. "If you want to see me alive, please ensure JD(S) comes to power," he had beseeched voters at one of his rallies at the fag end of the campaign, tears rolling down his cheeks.
 
 Kumaraswamy was CM for 20 months in 2006-2007, and had been appealing to the people to give him one last opportunity to be CM again. There is a touch of irony to the turnaround, as it has come despite his party winning only 38 seats in a house of 224 members.
 
 Born in Haradanahalli of Holenarsipura taluk in Hassan district, Kumaraswamy did his early schooling in Hassan, before shifting to Bengaluru. A BSc graduate from National College, Jayanagar, he always admitted politics was never his first interest.
 
 He was a film producer when he accidentally had to take the plunge into politics. H D Deve Gowda's family chose Kumaraswamy to be groomed as his heir, overlooking the claims of his elder brother H D Revanna, then an MLA from Holenarsipura.
 
 Kumaraswamy entered electoral politics by contesting from Kanakapura in the 1996 Lok Sabha elections, and won. With his father's ascendance as PM, Kumaraswamy's political profile grew but he subsequently lost the 1998 Lok Sabha election from Kanakapura. Kumaraswamy again lost against arch-rival   in the 1999 assembly elections from Sathanur.
 
 The turnaround in Kumaraswamy's fortunes began in 2004 when he was elected to the assembly in 2004. Though JD(S) joined hands with   to form a coalition government, in 2006, an ambitious Kumaraswamy scuppered the arrangement by joining hands with BJP, and became CM.
 
 Kumaraswamy's failure to honour his power-sharing agreement with the BJP led to the saffron party coming to power in the state for the first time in South India in the 2008 assembly election.
 
 Though Kumaraswamy, during his tenure as chief minister, had earned a good reputation because of his populist measures including "grama vastavya" where he stayed in villages to emphasize his rural moorings, it did not help arrest the dwindling strength of the party.
 
 Kumaraswamy's emergence as sole leader in the Janata Dal (Secular) also meant that other leaders like   had to move out, leaving the party with the tag of being a Vokkaligas-only party.
 
 The JD(S) leader has often admitted that his father's move to New Delhi was what forced him to take to politics full time. Kumaraswamy is married to Anitha, who has represented Madhugiri as MLA and also runs a media house. Their only son, Nikhil, is a Sandalwood actor.
 
