GHAZIABAD: The son of a local   councillor was booked for attempt to murder on Sunday allegedly after he opened fire on a 27-year-old MBA student. The accused, Manu Vashisht (33), is the son of  , councillor of ward number 39 of  .

 Police said the shooting seems to be a fallout of political rivalry between the families of Manu and the victim,  . The crime took place in   under ward number 39, at around 11.30 pm on Saturday. According to police, Manu was driving a black Ghaziabad-registered Scorpio bearing number 9999 along with his friends when he saw Vabishya near a temple in Naseerpur.
 
 “Manu drove ahead, took a U-turn and stopped it a few metres away from me. He got down the vehicle and began abusing me in the foulest language for supporting his father’s rival, Shekhar Tyagi, in the past municipal elections. It seemed he was heavily drunk at the time of the incident. He manhandled me as well. He pulled out a sophisticated pistol and opened fire on me. The bullet zoomed past the right side of my forehead. It was a brazen display of his political power,” Vabishya, a second-year student in Subharti University of Meerut told TOI.
 
 The police have booked Manu under sections 323 (assault) and 504 (intimidation) of IPC apart from attempt to murder. Manu looks after his father Himanshu Love’s real estate business in Ghaziabad. Himanshu Love had trounced BSP’s Shekhar Tyagi in the municipal elections last year. Shekhar Tyagi was a councillor from Nasirpur in the past.
 
 “Vabishya is a supporter of Shekhar Tyagi. They have been nursing a political jealousy after losing the elections last year. The entire incident has been concocted in order to frame my son,” Himanshu Love told TOI.
 
 Police are scanning video clips of the incident, shot by locals on their mobile phones, in which Manu is purportedly seen creating a ruckus besides badmouthing Vabishya.
 
 “We have registered an FIR. We are investigating the veracity of the allegations. No one has been arrested so far,” said SSP Vaibhav Krishna.
 
 
