PUDUCHERRY: Thirteen   and a Sri Lankan film will be screened during the sixth edition of the   from April 11 to 15 at Toulouse, capital of the southern Occitanie region, in France.

 The films will be screened at L’ Espace Diversités Laïcité, L’American Cosmograph, ABC, as well as at La Médiathèque Grand M, Centre Culturel Alban Minville and at Médiathèque Cabanis, said Indian organiser of the festival T Chandirasegaran.
 
 Six films – Lady of the lake (Manipuri), Demons in paradise (Tamil), Thondimuthalum Driksakshyum (Malayalam), Western Ghats (Merku Thodarchi Malai-  ), Ishu (Assamese) and Newton (Hindi) have been nominated for the jury  . Noted film critics from France – Carine Trenteun, Mary-Stephan Guey, Chris Thorpe and Louis-Marie Soler are the jury members.
 
 Ten films – Is it too much to ask? (Tamil), Prakasan (Malayalam), Lady of the lake (Manipuri), Demons in paradise (Tamil), Thondimuthalum Driksakshyum (Malayalam), Sound of silence (Hindi, Tibetan and Pahari), Kadvi Hawa (Hindi), Western Ghats (Tamil), Ishu (Assamese) and Newton (Hindi) – have been nominated for the audience award.
 
 Director of the film ‘Western Ghats’ Lenin Bharathi and lead actor of the film ‘Prakasan’ Dinesh Prabhakar will participate in the festival and interact with the audience after the   of their films.
 
 The festival, which was promoted by an umbrella of several non-profit organisations under the banner ‘Indian Season’ in 2013, was rechristened ‘Toulouse Indian Film Festival’ in 2015.
 
 “The objective is to promote Indian films among the French public. It is the only Indian   with audience awards outside Paris,” said Chandirasegaran.
 
 Vaagai Sooda Vaa (Tamil) and Onaatah (Khasi) bagged the audience awards at the film festival last year. The festival has introduced jury awards from this year. 
 
 Toulouse is a city of cinema and festivals in France. “We decided to promote Indian films in this part of France by collaborating with several theatres and cultural forums,” he said.
 
 
