NEW DELHI: In a stern message against twisting rules, the government has told lenders to companies facing insolvency proceedings that financial bids should be the sole criteria to select the winner in the race to acquire these entities. 

 Sources said the Centre has also made it clear that there should be no deviation from the law, especially when it comes to promoters of companies that arenon-performing assets (NPAs) and have been disqualified from participating in the resolution process. “We have asked banks to follow a simple process — whoever submits the highest bid should be backed by lenders,” said a government official who did not wish to be identified. 
 
 The message to lenders is already on display in companies such as   where Puneet Dalmia’s   beat   with a bid that is estimated to be Rs 200 crore higher. The winning bid will now have to be endorsed by the   (NCLT). 
 
  
  
 
 The government’s missive will have a bearing on several cases, including the ones referred to by lenders on instructions from the RBI as part of the push to clean up bank balance sheets that are laden with NPAs. 
 
 Several high-profile cases are to be decided over the next few days. As part of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, a resolution professional calls for bids, which are cleared by the committee of creditors comprising banks. 
 
 Sources said by sensitising banks, the government has ensured that the committee of creditors only backs the top bidder. Similarly, the committee of creditors has been asked to ensure strict compliance with the provisions of the law, that was enacted to speed up resolution of cases and provide quick exit to promoters. “If we make an exception or a deviation in one case there will be demand in many more cases, which we do not want,” a source said. 
 
 Banks will decide the fate of several companies, ranging from Essar Steel to Bhushan Steel, Bhushan Steel & Power, and  . These companies were part of the initial list of dozen entities that the RBI wanted banks to refer to the NCLT. 
 
 Subsequently, another 40 companies were identified, where the banks have initiated action.
 
