MUMBAI: Despite the mess over announcement of results last year that tainted  's reputation, over 2.6 lakh students joined the university and its affiliated colleges in 2017-18, a 10 percent increase from the previous year. The   is also the highest in a decade. 

 Over 50 per cent, or around 1.4 lakh, of the students have taken admissions to  , followed by 45,000 in the science stream and 42,000 in the courses offered under the arts faculty. Over 23,000 enrolled in the courses offered in the technology faculty and around 5,000-odd joined law courses. After students' enrolment remained around 2 lakh for a few years, it has crossed the 2.5 lakh limit for the first time in 10 years.
 
 
  
 The university has been in news for all wrong reasons during the past year. The implementation of online assessment led to unprecedented delays in announcement of results. Some of the results were announced in October, and the university was busy clearing the re-valuation backlog till January this year. The delay in the announcement of results affected admission schedule, eating into one whole semester.
 
 Former dean of commerce and principal of  ,  , said the delays in the results has not affected students' belief in the university. “Over 90 per cent of students' academic activities are associated with affiliated colleges. Students are dependent on the university only for results. Their aspirations to get into a college affiliated to the university will not be affected by one mistake. Higher authorities intervened in the matter last year and ensured that corrective measures were taken,” said Nair. He added that the popularity of some innovative courses introduced in the last decade has remained a big attraction for students.
 
 A total of 368 undergraduate courses are offered by the university— 165 of them in arts and 32 in commerce.
 
 Another principal said students seek admission in colleges and go by their reputation. “Most of the city colleges have taken several measures to improve their academic environment and infrastructure. Barring a few colleges, most of them are taking independent measures to improve their reputation. Most sought-after colleges are established and have managed to create a place for themselves and unlike universities abroad, in Mumbai, students do not go by university's name,”said the principal.
 
 Another principal pointed out that the number of students clearing HSC also had gone up and the rise in the university enrolment numbers could be a gradual increase. “For 161 years, the university has done tremendous work in providing wisdom by following ethics and shoulder the responsibility with enthusiastic. Compared to last year, more students are enrolled in this academic year; this is trust which we have built among students,” said  , vice chancellor of the university.
 
 
