MUMBAI: The  , probing the   case of a   by a  , have in their chargesheet attached a medical report that concludes that history of sexual violence cannot be ruled out. 

 The 100-page chargesheet was submitted before the Dindoshi sessions court recently in connection with the case where the 56-year-old trustee of an international school had been arrested for the sexual assault. The document also contains statements of the minor, her parents and school teachers among others. 
 
 The report states that the child’s medical examination was conducted on June 3, 2017. The FIR was filed on May 18, 2017. In the statement recorded before the magistrate, the child said a female teacher was present when she was inappropriately touched by the trustee. When asked by the magistrate if she had told anyone about the abuse, the child said she had informed the same teacher who told her that “it is the little secret between us, not to tell anyone”. The child said she then informed her mother. 
 
 The mother told the cops that on May 15 the child confided in her after she saw her touching her private parts and asked her for the reason. The mother said the girl disclosed that her class teacher took her and a boy classmate on the loft of the class room and that time boy teacher (later identified as the accused) was also there. The mother also stated that the child further said that at that time under the garb of playing, the boy teacher came close to her and touched her in a manner that caused pain. The mother said that when asked to stop, the accused consoled her by saying “Kuch nahi hota beta.” The mother told cops that she had also informed the boy’s mother. 
 
 Also included in the chargesheet are the statements of the victim’s classmate and his mother. The boy told the cops, “Ek ganda aadmi mere badan ko chuta tha, mujhe bilkul accha nahin lagta (A dirty man used to touch my body, I did not like it at all).” However when asked later if somebody had troubled him through touch, he replied that he was joking and that nobody had touched him. 
 
 The trustee, a foreign national, was arrested on November 7, 2017. The trustee was released on bail in December. The court will hear the matter on February 26.
 
 
