PUNE: A 22-year-old   on Monday morning jumped to death from the seventh floor of her office building in Mundhwa.

 The reason behind Ashwini Pandurang Gawari’s suicide is not known yet. The Mundhwa police did not find any suicide note on her. “We have registered a case of accidental death,” said  , a sub-inspector of the Mundhwa police.
 
 Gawari’s office — a skills development company — is on the fourth floor of a commercial building in Mundhwa. It also houses the  .
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The deceased computer engineer hailed from   in Shirur taluka. Her father passed away earlier. Her mother looks after their farm now. She was currently staying with her aunt in Chandannagar.
 
 Gawari had completed her computer engineering from a city college and joined the office as a trainee on September 26 last year. A senior officer of her office told TOI that she was regular in the office till January 19 this year. “For the past 10 days, she was absent. We tried to contact her, but her cellphone was not reachable,” he said.
 
 The officer said around 11am on Monday somebody from the building alerted his office about someone falling down. “We rushed down and found Gawari lying unconscious. Instead of waiting for an ambulance, we rushed her to a nearby hospital in a car. She was declared dead on arrival,” the officer said, adding that the Mundhwa police and Gawari’s aunt were also alerted.
 
 Victim met no one
 
 When the Gawari’s senior officers checked the   footage at the lobby of their office, they found her entering at 10.43am on Monday. “She made an entry in the officer register,” the officer said.
 
 Everyone in the office was busy then. “Gawari did not meet any of us and went out through the rear door. We do not know from where she jumped down,” the officer said.
 
 Plunge from smoking zone 
 
 Sub-inspector Walke said the prima facie probe revealed that Gawari went to the deserted smoking zone on the seventh floor of building. “When she stood on the wall, some people from the neighbouring establishment noticed her. They even requested her to get down. But within seconds Gawari threw herself down,” Walke said, adding that she fell on the backside of the building.
 
 
