MYSURU: Within hours of the Janata Dal (Secular) announcing its list of candidates for the assembly elections, divisions among the party cadre and leaders spilled over into the public domain.

 A group of workers on Sunday voiced their disagreement with the party’s decision to field Abdullah, a businessman who left the Congress and joined the JD(S) only recently, from the Narasimharaja (NR) segment. The workers met JD(S) MLC Sandesh Nagaraju, and former mayor Sandesh Swamy, who is an aspirant for the ticket, to air their opposition to the party’s decision. Nagaraju said that he would raise the issue with the senior leadership of the party. 
 
 Swamy, who lost the assembly elections in the 2013 polls from the segment said that the party leaders had not discussed the choice of the candidate for NR segment with either him or his brother Nagaraju. “I have been working in the segment for the past five years. I will discuss the issue with the party high command and decide on what to do, said Swamy, who added that, while his supporters wanted him to contest as an independent candidate, he had not given much thought to it.
 
 A four-time corporator, Swamy had polled 29,600 votes in the 2013 elections, and come in third, trailing the Congress and SDPI. Nagaraju, on the other hand, contested the 2008 elections from the segment unsuccessfully.
 
 Meanwhile, the party’s decision to field former University of Mysore (UoM) vice-chancellor  , who is related to party supremo and former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda, as the candidate from Chamaraja segment has not gone down well with aspirant K  . Harish was recently relived as the party’s Mysuru city unit chief after speaking out against Rangappa. On the announcement of Rangappa as the candidate for the segment, Harish said that he had expected this six months ago. “The party has ditched a dedicated worker by giving the ticket to Rangappa, who joined it only a few months ago,” said Harish, who although has not quit the party, has distanced himself from party activities.
 
 Pointing out that he had been working in the constituency for the past 10 years, Harish said that he would contest the polls as an independent candidate. “I will officially resign from the party in the first week of March,” he said, claiming that a bunch of JD(S) leaders, including two corporators and 20 other office-bearers would follow him out of the party.
 
 Meanwhile, Rangappa has been campaigning steadfastly in the Chamaraja segment, meeting ward-level representatives and collecting their feedback.
 
 The party’s decision to field zilla panchayat member Ashwin Kumar from T Narasipura segment has also ruffled the feathers of the party cadre in the constituency. Local leaders in T Narasipura had, at a press conference last week asked the senior leadership not to award the ticket to kumar, whom they accused of striking a deal with district in-charge minister HC Mahadevappa, who is the incumbent MLA from the constituency.
 
 JD(S) nominates new face for Varuna
 
 Meanwhile, in a surprise move, the JD(S) has nominated political greenhorn Abhishek as its candidate from Varuna constituency, currently represented by chief minister Siddaramaiah. Abhishek, who has returned from a foreign country, has been working in the constituency, a senior JD(S) leader told TOI. Abhishek is a Linagayat, whose father works with the JSS Mahavidyapeetha, the educational arm of the Suttur Mutt. “There were only two prominent contenders. Mahadevaswamy, a Vokkaliga, was the other aspirant. We have decided to go with the Lingayat candidate to target the CM, should he choose to contest from Varuna,” the leader said, adding that the party had chosen Abhishek though Mahadevaswamy had been actively working in the segment for the past year.
 
 
