Madurai: Finding inexactness in affidavits filed by officials of the health department with regard to the completion of construction work on a superspeciality wing for the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday directed the principal secretary to file a detailed report on matters that include the construction work and escalation cost.  Principal secretary of the state health and family welfare department, J Radhakrishnan had filed an affidavit saying that the project manager of the HLL Life Care Ltd which has undertaken the construction work, submitted a report that as on January 20 last, 90% of the work in the ground and first floors has been completed and that a further six months period from February 1 is needed to complete it.  Whereas the dean of GRH, D Maruthupandian prayed the court to grant three months to complete the task. He further told the court that the principal secretary after inspecting the work on December 31 had instructed the project manager to complete it beyond March 31.  The court, taking note of the controversial submissions by the duo called for a detailed report from the principal secretary.  Under the Prime Minister Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (Phase II) a super speciality block is constructed for the GRH. As the construction work went slowly, one S Rameshkumar from Sivagangai district filed a public interest litigation last year seeking direction to the government to expedite the work. The court on March 9 ordered to complete the task in six months.  However, the works are still in progress. The petitioner filed a contempt case against officials including the principal secretary, district collector K Veera Raghava Rao and the dean.  The principal secretary filed an affidavit saying that he never disobeyed the court order. Explaining reasons for the delay, he said, “As per the contract, the work was scheduled to be completed by August 23, 2015. However, it is protracted due to litigations of paucity of funds.”