PUNE: A special court on Wednesday gave time till May 4 to veteran Shiv Pratishthan leader   to file a written say on a plea by a victim of the January 1 Koregaon   violence. 

 The victim's plea has sought, among other things, a narco analysis, brain mapping and a lie detector test on Bhide and other accused named in the FIR relating to the Atrocities Act lodged by the Shikrapur police. 
 
 Sanjay Ramesh Bhalerao of   in Mumbai, who claims to be one of the victims of the violence during his visit to Koregaon Bhima, had filed a criminal miscellaneous application on April 4 as a part of the main case being heard by the special court against 55 accused, including Bhide. 
 
 Bhalerao sought a slew of directions relating to production of call data records, voice analysis, messages, WhatsApp chats, Facebook posts and conversation between all the accused, police protection to all victims, video recording of the court proceeding, monitoring of police probe by the court and travelling and lodging expenses for victims under the Atrocities Act. The special court had then directed notices to all the respondent-accused. 
 
 On Wednesday, lawyer   appeared for Bhide and filed an application before the special court seeking reasonable time to enable Bhide file a written say on Bhalerao's application. "We have stated in our plea that the applicant (Bhalerao) has wrongly mentioned Bhide's name as 'Manohar Vinayak Kulkarni alias Sambhaji Bhide' and that, the documents and material annexed with the application have not been received by the respondent-accused. Hence, the court ought to direct the applicant to provide the same for us to argue the matter on merits."
 
 Judge   has since directed applicant Bhalerao to provide to the accused copies of various exhibits and documents he has annexed in support of his application and posted the matter for next hearing on May 4.
 
 Bhalerao's lawyer   told TOI, "We have already furnished all the necessary documents to the court as per the provisions under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. However, we will comply with all directions issued by the court." 
 
 
