BHOPAL: There’s some good news for Bhopalis who need psychiatric care. A   with world-class facilities would be set up soon in the capital city with a budget of Rs 180 crore. The centre would come up at Link Road No.3 near the Patrakar Colony.

 Union minister for social justice Thawar Chand Gehlot, who was in the city to take part in a seminar titled ‘Inclusive India’ organised by his ministry on Saturday announced the setting up of the centre. He said the rehabilitation centre for people suffering from mental illnesses will have 12 faculties along with a staff strength of 250.
 
 The minister said work on the project would begin soon and it is likely to be completed within a time span of one-and-a half years. Gehlot, however, said that 20 acres land was required but the state government has allotted only 5 acres for the project. He hoped the remaining land would be provided soon so that the project is completed on time.
 
 Inaugurating the seminar as chief guest at the academy of administration auditorium, chief minister   commended the work being carried out for specially-abled persons under Gehlot’s stewardship and said that the society should also come forward to ensure a life of dignity for them. Chouhan said it is imperative for the society to help them in exploring their innate potential and harnessing it to the optimum, so that they feel empowered. “If you help a specially-abled person realise his potential, he would give you a return in excess of his ability”, Chouhan said.
 
 Referring to welfare schemes that are being run for specially-abled persons in his state, Chouhan said that more than 4 lakh specially-abled persons were being given a pension of Rs 500 and a grant of Rs 2 lakh for marriage between a specially-abled and normal person and Rs 1 lakh for marriage between two specially-abled adults.
 
 Gehlot in his address said he has tried his best to make his ministry active and vibrant and it was perhaps the reason that the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment has figured five times in the Guinness Book of World Records. He also commended Prime Minister   for taking keen interest in the activities of his ministry and said it has enabled him to turn an almost defunct ministry into a vibrant one.
 
 Gehlot dwelt at length at the schemes being run for the empowerment of specially-abled persons and prepare them for self-advocacy rather than leaving them at the mercy of others. Praising the role of NGOs in their attempt to realise the dream of an inclusive India, where the most neglected sections like the specially-abled people get their share in development and progress, he said it was no less than dedication to god.
 
 The Union minister said raising the types of disabilities to 21 from 7 will have a revolutionising effect on rehabilitation of the specially-abled. He referred to the proposed psychiatric rehabilitation centre at Bhopal in this regard. A national sports centre for the specially-abled is also proposed at Gwalior among other places, Gehlot added.
 
 Specially-able children from NGOs Sneh and   took part in cultural programmes, drawing praise from the audience and an award of Rs 5,000 each from Gehlot.
 
 Irfan and Bhavana from Indian Sign Language Research and Training Centre helped the specially-abled understand the context of the seminar.
 
 
