MUMBAI: The   doctor, ward boy and attendant arrested for negligence over the death of a man in the hospital’s MRI room were released on bail on Monday, a day after they were booked. While their bail was the law taking its course in a case of accidental death, so shocked is the family of the deceased, that they cannot come to terms with how people held responsible by the police for someone’s death can just walk free within a day of being arrested.

 Lalbaug resident   (32), who worked at a garment store and was the family’s breadwinner, died on Saturday after being sucked into Nair Hospital’s MRI scanner, along with an oxygen cylinder, after he was allegedly told by ward boy Vithal Chavan(35) to carry it into the machine chamber for the patient scheduled for the scan, Laxmi Solanki (65).   was the brother of Solanki’s daughterin-law. When Solanki’s niece questioned the wisdom of taking a metallic cylinder near the MRI’s magnetic field,   allegedly said the machine was switched off. This was a fatal insistence as an MRI scanner’s magnetic force is always present, even when the machine is not performing a scan (see graphic). Given the circumstances of Maru’s death, his family feels it was indisputably caused by the hospital’s negligence. So, they are agitated by the fact that no one is in lockup. Despite staring at financial uncertainty, they say the only thing they want now is justice.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “We have been financially dependent on Rajesh for 15 years. Today, compensation doesn’t feel like the most important thing. We want to ensure that those responsible are severely punished and the tragedy doesn’t repeat,” said Galal Maru, Rajesh’s father, who retired from a private company years ago.
 
 For Maru’s death (caused by excessive inhalation of pure oxygen that came out of the cylinder after its impact against the MRI machine), the police arrested Dr Saurabh Lanjrekar (24), Chavan and attendant   (35) under the IPC’s section 304A (negligence causing death; a bailable offence). “We released them on a surety of Rs 5,000 each, after recording their statements,” said senior inspector Savalaram Agawane of the Agripada police station. “All three told us it was an accident. Nobody blamed anyone. We are waiting for the hospital’s report to see if there are more accused.”
 
 Maru’s brother-in-law Harish Solanki said, “We have still not come to terms with our loss. How will we believe in the system if the accused are already out on bail? How will this ensure that people are not careless the next time.”
 
