

 All is not well in Ramgarh. Barely 50km from the state capital of Ranchi, there is simmering uneasiness over the conviction of 11 people, including a BJP leader and members of local gau raksha samitis, for the killing of Alimuddin Ansari in June last year in this cantonment town. While most people refuse to talk about the incident or its aftermath, scratch the surface and the tension prevailing here become palpable.
 
 With members of various saffron outfits camping in the town to protest against the fast track court’s March 16-decision to award   to the 11 and plan their future course of action, the town practically stands divided into two groups – one that knows Ansari since his childhood and vouches for his innocence, and another that backs the convicted killers to the hilt.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Among those furious with the court’s order is Shankar Chaudhary, an ex-MLA and a prominent BJP leader. Chaudhary, who has shaved off his head in protest, has been camping in front of Subhas Chowk since April 10, demanding that either the CBI or the NIA investigates Ansari’s death. “Alimuddin was not lynched. The administration has framed the 11,” he insists.
 
 RSS member Tilak Raj Mangal guarantees that every word Chaudhary says is gospel truth. “Alimuddin was intercepted at Bazaartand market by 10-15 people, including members of Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad. None of them were armed and they only set his car on fire. He may have been slapped once or twice, but he was never beaten up so badly that he would have died,” says Mangal.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 So what killed Ansari?
 
 “Bajrang Dal activists   and   tipped-off the police about Alimuddin carrying beef. Police arrived 90 minutes after his car was stopped by the crowd. He was alive when he was handed over to the police — he even walked a kilometre to the police van. If he was injured, why didn’t the cops take him to a hospital instead of police stations?” asks Chaudhary. “It is a case of custodial death. The cops implicated our activists to protect themselves.”
 
 Mangal repeats the story.
 
 However, no one in Alimuddin family or his locality in Manua village in the fringes of Ramgarh has any doubt about who the culprits are, even though they are still not sure of how events unfolded that day and why exactly was he killed.
 
 “It was about 9.30 in the morning when we received videos and pictures of him being brutalised by a mob. We went to the spot and found his vehicle gutted. We then went to the police station, but got no information from the officers. It was almost 7pm when the cops told us that Alimuddin is dead and his body has been sent to Rims (Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences) in Ranchi for autopsy,” says Shahmuddin, Alimuddin’s brother. “The police quietly sent his body home while we still sat at the police station,” he adds.
 
 “Not only did the crowd beat Alimuddin to death, they also circulated a video clip and photographs of a bloodied Alimuddin on his knees begging for his life on WhatsApp,” says Irshad Ansari, who owns a pharmacy in the neighbourhood. “He was a humble man who looked after his family and was loved by all of us,” says Irshad.
 
 “Contrary to media reports, Alimuddin was not a meat seller. He was in the business of selling coal and had nothing to do with meat, be it chicken or mutton or beef,” Irshad clarifies, insisting that the videos and pictures are enough to prove who killed Alimuddin. Even he is not sure why Alimuddin was targeted by the crowd.
 
 Additional DGP (operations) R K Mallick also refuted the allegations of custodial death. “When police rescued Alimuddin from the hands of the mob he was in a critical state. We took him to the sadar hospital but he succumbed to his injuries,” he says.
 
 Additional   S K Shukla agrees. Hesays, “Postmortem report submitted to the court pointed at severe internal injuries as the cause of death of Alimuddin.” Responding to the allegations of the BJP leader, Shukla says, “The defence counsel did not bring up the issue of custodial death during the trial.”
 
 Ten months after the incident, while Alimuddin’s family members still look for the reason that their sole breadwinner was killed, they have more pressing issues to deal with now.
 
 “I do not keep well and we have no way to make ends meet. The Rs 2 lakh that we received from the deputy commissioner after my husband’s death is finished,” says  , Alimuddin’s 45-year-old widow, her gaze fixed on a sewing machine given to her under some scheme. “I have a big family to run — I have two daughters to marry off… one of my three sons has had to drop out of school and the other two have no hope of getting any education,” she says.
 
 Mariam, however, is keen to ensure that the tragedy does not swallow her family’s future. “I am satisfied with the court’s judgement and I don’t want capital punishment for the convicted…. I don’t want any more deaths. I wanted justice, not revenge, so that my husband rests in peace. We got that justice.”
 
 As much as Mariam tries to move on, it seems unlikely she will be allowed to.
 
 BJP’s Chaudhary has threatened to launch a massive agitation in Ramgarh if his demand for a central probe is not met. “We will sit here on dharna and launch an awareness campaign. We would call a strike in Ramgarh on May 1 — a kind of demonstration no one has seen before. We will mobilise a lakh people in that demonstration. The government, which is led by my own party, will have to give in to our demands. The Raghubar Das government needs to take a call on how it wants to handle the situation,” he threatens.
 
 
 
 
 
