Mumbai: The Bombay high court on Thursday appointed former Supreme Court Judge Justice   and former Bombay high court Judge Justice V M Kanade as administrators to take over the affairs of   (MCA). The administrators have to ensure that MCA implements all recommendations of the Justice  .

 
 The administrators will take charge within a week. Till then, Ashish Shelar, as president, Unmesh Khanvilkar, Navin Shetty, Shah Alam Shaikh, Ganesh Iyer and Arman Mallick will continue to look after the MCA management and ensure smooth running of the IPL at the Wankhede Stadium. The administrators will have full control over management of MCA including matters concerning distribution of tickets for IPL matches.
 
 These six members may continue to assist the administrators, if the former Justices seek their assistance.
 
 A bench of Shantanu Kemkar and Makarand Karnik appointed the two former Judges as MCA administrators after former Wankhede stadium curator and MCA member   filed a petition which questioned the contract for the recent   to a special purpose vehicle. 
 
 Memon’s counsel   had sought orders to supersede the managing committee to ensure implementation of Justice R M Lodha committee recommendations on reforms. The names for the administrators were consented to by MCA counsel Rafiq dada, A S Khandeparkar, BCCI counsel Virag Tuzapurkar and Wizcraft counsel Milind Sathe. Dada and Khandeparkar had said that its proposed amendments to the constitution were in complete conformity with Justice Lodha panel.
 
 The administrators have to oversee holding of an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of MCA which was scheduled on April 16. The EGM may be postponed but has to be held by May 15.
 
 The EGM is to approve amendments to the association’s memorandum and constitution to bring it in tune with the Justice RM Lodha committee recommendations on cricket administration reforms.
 
 The HC directed that six existing committee members who are non-disqualified can assist the administrators at their request. The draft of the proposed new constitution has to be given to the administrators who have to ensure that new committee elections be held by June 30.
 
 
