GURUGRAM: Close to 500   got high-security registration plates (HSRP) fitted on Saturday, the first day of a two-day drive called Link Utsav. However, this was a small fraction of the 30,000 such plates which are kept stacked in the regional transport authority (RTA) office in Gurugram.

 A camp was organised at Beriwala Bagh in Shivaji Nagar, close to the RTA office to get HSRP fitted, giving vehicle owners a last chance to install the unique plates. Most of the people who visited the camp on Saturday said they had come after the traffic police issued challans to them.
 
 A number of vehicles across the country still has non-standard plates, despite the Supreme Court issuing guidelines to states in 2012, making it mandatory for all vehicle owners to get HSRP installed. However, a fresh Supreme Court notice to a few states in March seeking reply to its order, though not Haryana, has got the government active.
 
 A taxi owner came to the agency to get the number plate installed on his vehicle. While he had gotten the slip made in 2016, he came to get the number plate installed two-and-a-half years later. “I paid Rs 100 as fine to cops the first time they caught me, but didn’t want to continue paying, so I came and got the plate installed,” he said.
 
 Mahesh, who came from Kanhai village, said that it barely took him five minutes to get the number plate installed on his Toyota Etios car that cost him Rs 690. 
 
 Though some 500 vehicle owners came to the camp, an HSRP agency official said they were expecting more people and hoping that more number plates will get installed on the final day. 
 
 “We have made special arrangements and land in front of the agency has been cleared to accommodate maximum vehicles. More computers have been set up for searching the rack position of number plate simultaneously. We are even taking photographs after the final installation is done,” the official said.
 
 Vehicle owners can alsoget the number plates installed at 69 authorised workshops and 127 dealers across Gurugram, according to RTA officials.
 
 These workshops and dealers, have access to the HSRP portal and can place a request for the plate, which will be delivered to the dealer within 24 hours. 
 
 Further, new vehicles will now get the plates installed during the registration process before the vehicle leaves the showroom, officials said.
 
 
