He is just 25 and is blessed with a voice that many would kill for, but   never thought that one day, it would go against him! 

 The Kollam native, who has sung over 2,000 songs in albums and a few movies, made it to the last round of the Kerala State Film Awards for the Best Singer and lost out to Shahabaz Aman. The reason the jury cited for preferring Shahabaz over Abhijith was that the latter tried to imitate the rendition style of  ! That too, on a song composed by veteran   and penned by Sreekumaran Thampy, both of whom have worked with Yesudas for decades.
 
 Though distraught over the allegations, the young singer says he is happy to have reached the finals of the State Awards, which he hadn’t ever dreamt of. However, he adds, “When you are recording a song, every word, sangathi and style of it are delivered as instructed by the composer and that’s what I have done too in my song  , in  . The singer, especially a newcomer like me, does not have the liberty to vocalise or as they say, ‘imitate,’ as per my wish.” While he says he is thankful to God that many people feel his voice resembles that of Yesudas, he says, “I was extremely saddened that the jury said such a thing about my rendition. Of course, they are all people who are much more experienced than me and I do respect them, but I wonder why this fact wasn't taken into account,” he says.
 
 The young singer, whose voice has a stunning similarity to that of Yesudas, was once able to meet the great singer. “I met him at the Soorya Fest in Thiruvananthapuram last year. His secretary Rohit had called me, after hearing me singing. He led me to meet Das sir, after his concert. When he said, ‘This is the Abhijith I mentioned,’ Das sir just said, ‘Oh, ok’ and smiled. He also blessed me and patted my back, as I touched his feet. It’s a special memory,” recalls Abhijith, who hardly has any competition wins, training or ‘connections’ to his credit in the field of 
 music.
 
 “I used to sing when I was younger too and used to take part in competitions, but haven’t won many prizes. During my graduation I got a chance to sing for a ganamela, after a keyboardist named Ajayan offered me a chance. Someone in my locality heard me sing at a concert and took me to record a song in a studio. Since then, I have been singing for albums. All the while, people have complimented me on how my voice resembles that of Das sir, but I have never conciously given it a thought,” he says. 
 
 Abhijith was planning to pursue a job in banking, until he felt the music in him deserves more attention. “After much thought, I decided that regardless of the returns I get from music, it is going to be my life and my family also supported me,” he says.
 
 The first film for which he sang was Aakasamittayee, released last year. Abhijith says he does not know how the chance to sing for M K Arjunan came his way. “All I know is that it is Jayaraj sir who recommended my name for the song and until the time I was in the studio, I didn’t even know that I was singing for a movie, or that Arjunan mash had composed the song! Seeing him, I was shocked and the songs like Kasthuri manakkunnallo flashed through my head. We had a wonderful session, he came and sat with me and explained everything, including the song situation, making it all easy for me. We recorded the song in half an hour to 45 minutes. Post recoding, like a boy overpowered by curiosity, I asked him about how things were, back in his days. ‘How were the songs recorded?’ ‘What were your experiences?’ I shot questions at him and he told me stories about recording in Chennai, working with a young A R Rahman and more,” he says.
 
 When M K Arjunan won the best composer’s award through the song Kuttanadan Kaattu, Abhijith wondered whether anyone would mention his name too. “Not that I am dying for fame, but wondered why nobody took note of that. It’s just two days ago that I came to know that I was also in contention,” says a humble Abhijith.
 How does he plan to tackle the charge of imitation? “I don't know... I would just keep singing, be thankful for what I have and give my best, that’s all,” he says. He has sung in the upcoming Malayalam film Idukki Blasters, and also has a Kannada and a Telugu movie coming up.
  
 
