NAGPUR: A 34-year-old married woman, who stays away from her husband, has registered a complaint of rape on Thursday against her former neighbour and current paramour. She has accused him of sexually exploiting her on the pretext of marriage for last couple of years. The woman works with a private company at   to support her 15-year-old son.

 Police said the woman has been staying away from her husband for some three years. She had developed a romantic relationship with her former childhood friend, Vishal   (30), since March 2016. The survivor had separated from her husband a year before meeting Wankhede. It’s learnt that Wankhede had started exploiting the woman after promising to marry her.
 
 However, Wankhede had started planning to marry another woman, which had led to a rift with the survivor since March this year. The woman decided to report the matter to the cops, and met senior officers to get an offence registered against Wankhede at Rana Pratap Nagar police station. Wankhede is yet to be arrested.
 
 In another incident, an offence of rape has been registered against a 29-year-old man, identified as Shabir Gafar, for sexually exploiting a 21-year-old divorced relative at different lodges in the city and Kamptee in March this year.
 
 Police said the survivor, a native of Hyderabad, had sought assistance from Gafar to help find a job in the city after her husband divorced her a few months ago. Gafar is learnt to have suggested that the survivor stay at a hotel at Kamptee when she came to the city to look for a job.
 
 Promising help, Shabir is learnt to have forced her to have sexual relations with him at the Kamptee lodge after gagging her. Shabir later took the survivor to a lodge at Sitabuldi, where he once again forced her to have physical relations before sneaking away from the place without paying the bill. The survivor waited for around a month before she could find someone to help her to approach the police. An offence of rape was registered at Juni Kamptee police station. Shabir has already been arrested.
 
 
