 : Fifty-year-old Ashley   discovered the bitter truth about the taxi business in Goa the hard way last week. 

 After Fernandes fell of his bike in a self-accident, he was taken to the Goa Medical College (GMC) for treatment. On being discharged after treatment, Fernandes called for his usual taxi driver. Once this ‘outside’ taxi arrived, owners of the taxis stationed outside the hospital gheraoed it and an already injured and ill Fernandes found himself at the centre of the chaos. The taxi owners were firm on their stand that ‘outside’ taxis are not allowed.
 
 For tourists that visit Goa, this has become a bitter reality. Presently, there are barely any designated areas for tourist taxis to operate. Taxi owners park in the city parking lots, in the arrival and departure area of the  , they camp outside resorts and at any other place they choose.
 
 “As per the permits, taxi drivers need to have their own office to operate from or they can operate from home or they can operate from a parking space leased out to them,” a state transport official said. Yet, taxi owners habitually park their vehicles where they wish, claiming that the terms of the permit itself are faulty and they need to be visible if tourists are to approach them.
 
  
 With taxi operators in the state not allowing app-based cab services like   and Uber to enter the market, there is no other way to book your ride. Tourists and locals alike, in Goa, are forced to rely on either their familiarity with a taxi operator or hire the first visible cab. This allows taxi operators to dictate both terms and fares.
 
 Tourists, especially foreigners, and mainly Russian, throng the serene beach belt of Pernem taluka, from Morjim to Keri. There are about 400 to 450 taxis operating in the belt, but there is not a single designated stand, leaving tourists entirely at the mercy of the taxi operators.
 
 Tourists have to rely on ‘contacts’ to hire a cab, which allows scope to inflate rates and monopolise business. Whenever a tourist asks around for a cab, the taxi operators activate their network to direct the client to the cab driver available at that moment.
 
 “I come from Mumbai, and we are used to an efficient public transport system. Lack of public transport system, is a major problem. Cabs are available only at certain predesignated points. Otherwise, you have to depend on the hotel to provide transport, and that is expensive,” said  , an orthodontist based in Mumbai.
 
 The ambiguity in designated places for taxis to operate from ends up resulting in the ugly territorial clashes that Goa witnesses from time to time.
 
 Many tourists have alleged over the years that taxi operators have stopped their friends’ and relatives’ vehicles, which came to the resort where they were staying to pick them up.
 
 “Some years back, when we were in Goa, staying at a starred hotel in South Goa, there was always a bunch of cab drivers hanging outside the hotel. We were keen to visit either Mapusa or Panaji market, but the rate that these cab drivers were charging was exorbitant. So we decided to move a little away from our hotel towards the road and see if we could find a cabbie, who would take us for a lesser amount. We met a cab guy who offered to take us the next day for a reasonably good rate. Deal struck, we were happy, but he said he would not come to our hotel to pick us up as he was afraid of the other cabbies!” said Gloria D’Sa from Mumbai.
 
 At present, the   airport is the only area where taxis can be found for hire round-the-clock. There is no metered rate charging system in place and rates for almost all routes have been fixed. The amounts have been decided by all taxi operators.
 
 MLAs from Goa’s coastal belt find themselves defending the ‘rights’ of taxi operators by default, as the cab business is a prime means of employment in their constituencies. Though these MLAs admit that taxi operations in Goa are in a mess, they blame the state government to a large extent for it and not taxi operators.
 
 “In the North Goa beach belt, there are often instances of tourists being abused with racist slurs when they try to bargain for a cheaper fare. They asked ‘why do you come to Goa if you cannot afford the fare?’ Tourists rarely file police complaints because they are here just for a few days,” said a local from Calangute.
 
 In Goa’s remote villages like Nirankal and Codar, locals face difficulties in case of emergencies. At night, the villages have no taxis and, since ambulances take long to reach these interior villages, locals, who do not own a four-wheeler, are forced to rely on the generosity of neighbours and panchas in such situations.
 
 (Some names have been changed to protect privacy)
 
 
