Mother’s Day couldn’t hold a truer meaning than it does for actress  . It was around this day, May 20, that she delivered a bonny boy last year and named him  . A household name as Sandhya in ' ', the actress who tied the knot with her director   in 2014, says, “While I saw several posts and messages on Mother’s Day in 2017, I knew it would hold a different meaning for me in the coming year as my baby was due on May 20. I can officially celebrate the day with my child this year, and I am excited about it. He will turn one this month.”

 The actress says that the baby has made her more patient and caring towards not just him, but others as well. “Motherhood is a beautiful experience. Besides a biological transformation, I have learnt to empathise and sympathise with people around. It’s only when you become a mother, you realise how much your parents must have put in to bring you up. My parents were working, but they made sure to raise us well. They gave us their time. At times, I wonder if I would be able to do so much for Soham,” she says.
 
 Deepika took a break from acting to be around her child. However, she continued with her other passion — dance. She has been training in Odissi dance for several years. She shares, “I would attend the dance classes even during my pregnancy. Although I couldn’t dance, I would just sit and watch others perform. I can’t stop pursuing some forms of art, or else I would be dissatisfied. Dance is also abhinay. Also, I didn’t want to put in long hours acting on a set before my son turned one. It was not worth leaving my son at home. Also, I wasn’t physically fit. I don’t care about the weight, but to stand and shoot for long hours after your body has undergone a change can be difficult. I have done that for almost five-and-a-half years without a break. Besides, I had the option of taking a break and embracing  , so I made the most of it. Whatever I do in life, I give it my 100 per cent and this time, my child is my priority.”
 
 Deepika, who is gearing up to return to the small screen, feels that motherhood will enhance her skills as an actor. “Though I have played a mother on my show and was convincing enough, I feel motherhood will make me an even better actor now. The surge of emotions that one feels with motherhood is incomparable; there’s more warmth in the way I relate to people around,” says the proud mother.
 
