GURUGRAM: There will be no further   of Gurugram’s urban boundaries till problems in the   are fixed, chief minister Manohar Lal   said on Thursday.

 He also said his government was ready to change policy if needed to find solutions, which could well be required because it is flaws in the master plan that have derailed basic infrastructure like roads, power and water supply in the 58 new sectors (58-115) along Southern Peripheral Road and Dwarka Expressway.
 
 TOI had run an 8-part series this February and March explaining how a complicated and baffling set of rules set at the time of giving licences to developers had led to a situation today where many internal roads have not even been built, though flats are long ready, and entire housing societies are running on gensets and sourcing water from tankers because the electricity and piped water network hasn’t been laid yet. 
 
 “It has been decided not to undertake further expansion of Gurugram city and instead improve it in its present form,” Khattar said after meeting a meeting with real estate developers in the city. Developers raised 61 issues, including absence of civic amenities, road, water and power supply in the new sectors.
 
 The new sectors have hundreds of real-estate projects that are at various stages of development. SPR recently made headlines when Trump Towers was launched there. But the absence of connecting roads, water and power supply have put residents in a fix. Many of them have had no option but to move in to stop paying high house rents. 
 
 Khattar said the city was facing multiple problems because of poor planning and governance of the previous Congress-led government led by Bhupinder Singh Hooda. “A number of changes have been made in policies and rules during the last three and a half years. If required, we will make further changes for better development,” said Khattar, adding the state government was expecting a large numbers of industries to come to Gurugram and his government would do all it can to develop the city’s infrastructure. 
 
 Khattar said the government has divided the new sectors into four zones and focused development is being undertaken in each zone in a phased manner. “The zoning system has benefited the city a lot,” the   said.
 
 New sectors have been divided like this – 58-68, 68-80, 81-95 and 95-115. Solving problems in sectors 58-68 is the mandate of Phase 1, followed by sectors 81-95 in Phase 2 and 95-15 in Phase 3. Sectors 68-80 have land acquisition problems and will, hence, be taken up last.
 
 The construction of internal roads is one of the biggest challenges for the new sectors because the licence conditions make it the duty of a developer, and not a government agency like Huda, to build these roads. As a result, many localities have turned into islands because a developer who has no money has not bothered to build its portion of a road. That has left others stranded as well. 
 
 The immediate challenge before the government in Phase-1 is to find the 400 acres it needs to build all internal roads. According to an estimate, around 800 acres of land is required for construction of internal roads in sectors 58-68, of which only 400 acres is under developers’ licence area. The remaining 400 acres is under private ownership. 
 
 “The roads cannot be constructed without acquisition of these 400 acres, but there is no clarity who will acquire this land,” said a developer who was present at the meeting with the CM.
 
 
