AHMEDABAD:   Mesuria, an 11-year-old boy from Amreli, whose father Dinesh Mesuria had pleaded euthanasia for his son suffering from a rare neurological disorder has got a ray of hope from a citybased alternative medicine practitioner. A radio frequency machine — Hem Hans Frequency Machine — developed by the practitioner on the basis of researches done by US- and Germany-based scientists, has helped reduce seizure count to four a day than the earlier eight seizures in a minute.

 Parth suffers from   (SSPE) which causes spasms or jerks and the patient loses control over the movement. This viral disease often manifests as dementia or personality alterations and the patient’s behaviour turns abnormal and erratic.
 
 Parth contracted this illness after a spell of high fever in July 2016. While the fever broke after a few days, the seizures continued unabated.
 
 In November 2017, Dinesh wrote to PM  , seeking death for his bedridden son who cannot eat, speak and even move, citing that it was painful to see his son die every minute, undergoing unprecedented pain and suffering.
 
 The letter led to the PMO arranging free medical treatment for Parth at AIIMS, Delhi, but with little relief. After the Supreme Court’s recent verdict on the passive euthanasia, on March 10 Dinesh Mesuria decided to make a fresh plea seeking euthanasia.
 
 This news was noted by PM Modi’s elder brother  , who decided to help the child. He discussed the case with a city-based alternative medicine practitioner, Dr Hemant Broker, who sent the Hem Hans Frequency Machine which delivers frequencies to treat thousands of diseases based on settings recorded by a German scientist Dr Royal Rife and a US-based scientist Dr Hulda Clarke, to the child.
 
 Parth is hooked on to the machine four to five times a day for half-an-hour session since March 13. Dinesh, who earns his livelihood by selling lunch packets to factory labourers, said the family has dropped the plan to seek passive euthanasia for the son as his situation has improved significantly.
 
 “Parth had been suffering eight to 10 seizures a minute but ever since the machine was tiedtohiswrist, hissituation has improved. In the past two days, intensity and frequency of seizureshave reduced considerably. Parth is also able to call us, see us and is also able to move his body. He also laughed after a long long time. ItisGod's grace,” saidDinesh.
 
 Somabhai Modi, when contactedby TOI, said: “I started consulting Dr Broker for knee pain just recently. When I read the moving story of Parth's father seeking euthanasia for his son, I discussed the possible treatment with Dr Broker and decided to help theMesuria family. Dr Broker sent the machine to the family and I was happy to hear from Parth’s father about improvement in his symptoms. I am grateful that we could help the little kid.”
 
 “I am a broker and businessman by profession. Alternative healing gratis is my hobby. I had developed radio frequency healing machine 15 years ago and upgraded it three years back. I have just adopted research done by foreign scientistsfor thebenefit of people suffering from ailments,” said 88-year-old Dr Broker.
 
