GURUGRAM: The Haryana government has collected Rs 399.46 crore in cess from Gurugram between 2010 and 2018, but spent only around 1% on the targeted beneficiaries — construction workers. The state labour department charges 1% as cess on construction work, ostensibly to be spent on   of labourers.

 The reply to an RTI query filed by activist Aseem Takyar shows that between 2010 and 2014, the state government did not spend any money from the cess collected for the welfare of construction workers in Gurugram. 
 
 The cumulative cess collection during his period was around Rs 242.44 crore.
 
  Over the next four years — between 2014-15 and 2017-18 — the collection figure stands at Rs 156.99 crore, whereas the cess spent on beneficiaries during these four years is slightly above 1.3% with the total spend at approximately Rs 5.4 crore.
 
 Labour department officials said the reason why expenditure is lower than collections, is that the amount being collected is way more than the requirement. 
 
 “Gurugram witnesses major construction activity. Consequently, cess collections are quite significant. Thus, even after the government spends quite a bit on welfare schemes, there’s a huge balance left,” said Naresh Narnal, additional labour commissioner, NCR, Haryana.
 
 Cess is charged at 1-2% from all developers, under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Cess Act, 1996. 
 
 The money collected is deposited with   (CWWB) to fund welfare schemes for construction workers in a given state. 
 
 Narnal said the state government has many schemes for construction workers, such as payment of compensation up to Rs 5 lakh on the death of a worker on-site and up to Rs 1 lakh on death off site.
 
 Activists and labour unions, though, called out the state government on its “anti worker” intent, which they said is the main reason behind its inability to spend on welfare of construction workers. 
 
 “The government doesn’t want to spend on workers’ welfare, so it’s not creating the required mechanism to spend the funds. We’ve repeatedly asked for better representation of workers on the CWWB, but they have fallen on deaf ears,” said Rajinder Singh, district secretary, CITU, Gurugram.
 
 He added that what was most galling is this huge amount lying unutilised with the government, even as construction workers struggle with poverty.
 
 
