PUNE: Cricket legend   on Monday said that India loses many talented athletes at the grassroots level because the “selectors” treat their role “only as a formality” and that the country’s sport system “must be more responsible” to change the scenario.

 Tendulkar was in the city for the inauguration of Savitribai Phule Pune University’s ‘Mission Young and Fit India’ programme at the Inter University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics.
 
 “Here I have seen that many a times when there are tournaments, there are trial matches before them. There, I have seen some selectors who come there only to fulfil a formality. Due to this attitude, many a time talented girls and boys get ignored.
 
 “Our structure needs to be more organized and it must be (more) responsible. An overall change is required. If sport is taken as a subject (in academics), then a lot of things will change,” said Tendulkar.
 
 The 45-year-old Bharat Ratna awardee criticized the way society failed to encourage sportspersons in their formative years but later expected them to win medals at the Olympics.
 
 “Awareness about health is important and should be taught from grassroots level. Sportsmen can teach you this. If you have talent, they will be able to spot it at an early age,” the former India batsman said.
 
 “Then you can bank on these athletes to bring medals. Now when big championships happen, or when Olympics happen, everybody expects that India will bring medal but then where is the preparation for that?
 
 “Athletes from other countries are looking to improve their performance by fractions and that is the gap between winning a gold, silver, bronze and the rest.
 
 “It is not going to happen in two-three years. It requires a tremendous amount of training. For this, not just long training hours but organized training is required,” said Tendulkar.
 
 Tendulkar appealed to the educational institutes to employ former sportsmen to help spot and nurture talent at a young age.
 
 “We have a lot of sportsmen who have retired. They may have played at district level or state level. In their current (administrative) job, they are just passing files from one cabin to another. They are frustrated as their minds are not occupied in the right way.
 
 “All their experience is going to waste. I request you to employ such retired people in your schools and colleges. Their experience can be utilized,” he said.
 
 
