GREATER NOIDA: The   management has said the student of African origin allegedly assaulted by some guards was a “habitual offender” and had instigated them on Tuesday afternoon by refusing to allow them to check his pockets and attacking them instead.

 The student, who holds dual citizenship of Kenya and Yemen but is mentioned as Yemeni in the university records, has lodged a complaint at Knowledge Park police station, on the basis of which eight guards of the university have been slapped charges under Sections 147 (rioting), 352 (assault/criminal force), 353 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. 
 
 District magistrate BN Singh has also ordered a probe into the alleged assault and sought a report in 15 days.
 
 The university on Friday released   footage showing the student engaged in a tussle with the guards. The footage shows some guards accompanying the student through a corridor, when he gets “uncontrollable”. In another footage dated February 21, the student can be seen jumping over the electronic gate without swiping his I-card.
 
 A friend of the  ,  , said the varsity had selectively highlighted those portions that suited them. The varsity management has suspended seven guards hired from a private agency after a video posted on Facebook showed the student being lifted by his hands and legs and thrown out of the campus.
 
 The deputy registrar of the university and its spokesperson, Ajit Kumar, said the guards had stopped the Kenyan student at the gate when he tried to push his way in despite carrying a visitor’s I-card. “He was not carrying the college I-card and tried to enter with a visitor’s card. He reeked of alcohol and resisted when the guards tried to check his pockets,” he said.
 
 Umar Najeeb, coordinator of the   in India (AASI), said even if he were to accept the university’s version that the student was a repeated offender, “the guards had no right to touch him”.
 
 “This is not a racial attack or discrimination. I agree the security personnel were doing their job, but they did not handle the situation well. When I saw the video, I was very upset. I spoke to the student, and he told me he had gone out to have snacks and was stopped by the guards while entering,” he said. Najeeb said the student had denied carrying a packet of cigarettes, a claim made by the varsity management for denying him entry on Tuesday. 
 
 Deputy registrar Kumar said it was the student who had instigated the guards. “Only after repeated attacks on them, the security personnel tried to take him to office by lifting him by the legs and hands. He was uncontrollable,” he said.
 
 Asked why the management had then suspended the guards, he said varsity rules did not allow them to treat any student in that manner. “A four-member proctorial board has been formed to look into the incident,” Kumar said.
 
 In the complaint lodged by the student, he has said: “I was physically and emotionally assaulted on the ground that I am an African.” 
 
 District magistrate Singh, who also has ordered a probe, said: “The probe team will investigate if it was a sudden incident or there was any criminal conspiracy involved. It will investigate whether the university management or its policies are at fault.” 
 
 
