Adnaan Rizvi

 Kite flying may seem an ordinary sport to most but for some in the city, it means serious business. The practice of kite flying is not merely a hobby for a few flyers, it means earning big bucks each time a kite is flown and cut. With huge jamghats planned across the city on  , it’s time for the bookies to get into action and place bets on each kite that flies in their vicinity.
 "Patang ka shauq koi chhota-mota nahi hai, we invest upto `5 lakhs on a bet as to who will cut a fixed number of kites first, when two groups are playing a match," shares Ravi Singh*, a patangbaaz who flies kites at  . "On other days, I fly kite to practice and have a good time, but on festivals like today and after  , I fly kites to earn money. Aise toh kite-flying mein paise kharch hi hote hain, par on festivals, paise kamane ka mauka mil jaata hai. Betting on kites is the only way to earn money in this sport warna   udaane ka shauq palna bahut hi mushkil aur mehnga hai," he adds.
 Bets in patangbaazi are similar to those placed in any other sport. Bets are placed on which kite will be cut first and which one will fly for the longest time. Bets are also placed on who will cut the maximum number of kites of a group. A person’s kite flying skill comes into serious play here and those skilled at it are in the reckoning for higher bets placed on them later. 
 For Mohd Shabab*, a real-estate businessman, winning in kite-flying is an addiction. "Patangbaazi mein jeetna har kisi ke liye ek nasha sa hota hai. Just like the other sports, isme bhi log paise le ke jeette aur haarte hain.” Shabab adds, “During festivals like these, bookies also have a field day because there’s no checking by the police. Sometimes we lay a single bet of `50000-60000, as per mutual consent. We even go out of the city if someone has bet a big amount for winning, else we play within the city for nominal amounts of up to `5,000."
 But betting such big amounts doesnt come without risks. There have been instances, according to the patangbaaz and bookies, when the game has led to violence. Shakeel Ahmed*, a patangbaaz is one such who paid a huge price for not being able to pay the betting amount in full. "I had placed a bet of two lakh rupees because I was confident of my skill in kite flying. But kismat kabhi bata ke toh kharaab hoti nahi hai. I lost the bet and couldn’t pay the whole amount at that time. The winner then put a gun to my head and demanded that I pay the remaining amount then and there. When my friends and others intervened, he agreed to let me pay the rest of the money within a week. I had a terrible time getting that money arranged and since then I have stopped betting in patangbaazi," swears Shakeel. 
 
  
  A bookie being paid for a bet on patangbaazi (Pic used for representational purpose only) BCCL/ Aditya Yadav 
 
 Kite flying, say patangbaaz, is not an easy sport. There are a lot of technicalities involved with the direction of the wind, the kind of paper used in the kite, the type of string attached and also the tension in the string – called thadde in Hindi – for the balance of the kite, coming into play and to be checked before the game starts. Betting being a serious business now, the bookies first check the wind speed and direction before the start of each ‘tournament’. Tracking wind speed and direction online, makes it easy for the bookies to figure out the result before setting the betting amount. "This is known to very few kite flyers in the city. I check the wind speed online and then only place a bet because I know if the wind is not proper, there is no way of winning it," says BK Shukla*, a businessman, who usually flies kites near Jankipuram Extension. 
 And it's not just the grown-ups who are placing bets, teenagers and youngsters are also catching up on it. We spotted Raja, an 11-year-old school kid placing a bet of `20 with 13- year- old Badshah in the   area. Upon winning the bet, Raja bought two more kites with the money, increasing the betting amount to `30. “I have been flying kites since I was a kid,” says Raja, adding, "Now I am familiar with the tricks involved in winning a bet. I save money from my wins and then buy more kites from the winning amount," he adds. 
 It's not just individuals betting huge sums in kite flying, in fact, experts are hired by the various kite flying clubs in the city to win a game. At times professional kite flyers are also hired on a monthly basis to win such matches and bets. All of it, of course done, unofficially. Gajendra Lal*, one such expert kite flyer, is paid `14,000 per month by a city-based club to win in the matches. "It is a sort of safe betting business where you get a fixed amount and there is no tension of losing in the game,” says Gajendra, adding, “Sometimes, if there is need of more money, I bet unofficially also and earn a good amount from it too. Through these bets in kite flying, I end up earning a handsome amount every month which goes up to around one or two lakh rupees also at times. The amount gained is again invested into kites and the cycle goes on," adds Lal. 
 And though the practice of betting in patangbaazi is common knowledge, kite flying clubs in the city say they are against the practice. Jahangir Agha, a member of the  , says, "Since the kite flying fraternity is limited in the city, we get to know very easily if a member is betting or not. If someone from the club is found betting then we expel him from the club. We know of people who place bets so we don’t take bookies as members as it affects the image of our clubs. We participate in national and international kite flying competitions isliye club ki inn bade competitions mein izzat bachane ke liye humlog aise logon ko nikaal dete hain jo betting karte hain."
  ( Some names changed on request)
 — Adnaan Rizvi
 
 
