JAIPUR: It’s an industry that is mostly concentrated in   and has thrived on cash transactions, bare minimum taxes, and the construction boom.

 
 But in the last couple of years, everything that can go wrong, has gone wrong with this industry, resulting in crippling sales, big layoffs and shrinking processing activity.
 
 
  
 
 The deep distress in the marble industry does not attract enough attention given its unorganized nature and lack of unified voice. But its economic import cannot be undermined.
 
 As per the state department of mines and geology report, employment in the stone sector has plunged by 30% in 2016-17 compared to previous year, and production has plunged by over 12%. The decline is writ large on other metrics of the industry (see graphics).
 
 The business community engaged in the sector said that stone was one of the very few industries that suffered the worst impact of demonetization,   and  .
 
 “If somebody wants to see the ground zero of the devastation caused by the note ban, GST and RERA, the stone industry is the place to visit,” said a senior official with the industry department.
 
 Cash used to be the preferred mode of transaction for the industry, and the component was even bigger compared to real estate deals.
 
 But after demonetization, much of the demand has disappeared, he added. Before it could absorb the shock, the GST was introduced which put the industry in the 28% tax bracket.
 
 “Going from a tax rate of 5% to 28% was a bit too much for survival. This led to the scaling down of operations and subsequent job losses. While the government lowered it to 18% in December last year, the impact still continues. We expect another 18 months for the industry to recover fully from the negative impact of policy changes,” said  , vicechairman of the   (CDOS).
 
 
 
 Jaipur: As per the new GST slabs, dimensional stones attract a tax rate of 18% while engraved products (valued added) come under the 12% bracket.
 
 Sources in the industry said that the slowdown in real estate and ban on bajri have put a spanner on the construction activity. “The fortunes of stone industry are tied to the growth of the real estate sector which is now battling a prolonged slowdown. The introduction of RERA has also shrunk the pipeline of new projects. Unless construction activities gain pace again, the marble industry will remain under pressure,” he added.
 
 Amid the gloom, there’s one silver lining though. The US market has shown signs of revival even as the demand in   continues to be a concern. “We are hopeful that the US market will continue to grow. This can provide some relief from the decline in demand in the domestic market,” added Dhoot.
 
 In fact, the latest figures from the directorate general of commercial intelligence and statistics show that stone exports from Rajasthan have risen to Rs 2,555 crore in 2017-18 from Rs 2,302 crore in 2016-17. The source mentioned above said that in the absence of demand from the domestic market, the industry has shifted focus to foreign markets.
 
 While the department of mines and geology conservatively estimates the stone sector in Rajasthan at around Rs 4000 crore, industry bodies peg it close to Rs 10,000 crore. Accordingly, the employment will be also much higher compared to the department’s data
 
