PATNA: Deputy CM   on Thursday said   chief Lalu Prasad, who is currently lodged at Hotwar central jail in Ranchi following his incarceration in fodder scam cases, had nothing to do with his party’s victory in   and Jehanabad assembly byelections, the results of which were announced on Wednesday.

 “The RJD registered victory in the   Lok Sabha constituency mainly because of its huge lead in two minority-dominated assembly segments – Jokihat and Araria. Araria Lok Sabha constituency has six assembly segments. Of them, the   maintained comfortable lead in four segments – Forbesganj, Narpatganj, Raniganj and Sikti. However, the RJD got a lead of over 1.30 lakh votes from the minority dominated Jokihat and Araria segments, which led to defeat of BJP candidate,”   said.
 
 In  , bypolls were held in Araria Lok Sabha and Jehanabad and Bhabhua assembly seats. While RJD retained Araria and Jehanabad seats, the BJP emerged victorious in Bhabhua assembly seat.
 
 Modi said the RJD chief had been inside the jail on previous occasions also during which his party tasted defeats in many elections. “In the 2010 assembly elections, the RJD was reduced to just 22 seats. Lalu was sentenced in a fodder scam case in 2013 and sent to jail. However, his party could not do better in 2014 general elections as it won just four of 40 Lok Sabha seats in the state. Hence, Lalu remaining in jail was no factor behind RJD’s victory in Araria Lok Sabha and Jehanabad assembly seats,” Modi said. 
 
 He said of the total eight assembly segments – six segments of Araria Lok Sabha seat and two of Jehanabad and Bhabhua assembly seats – where byelections were held, the BJP maintained lead in five segments. “In Bhabhua, the BJP doubled its winning margin from 7,000 votes in 2015 to 15,000 votes now,” he said.
 
 Asked about BJP’s Araria candidate Pradip Kumar Singh’s allegation that he faced defeat because of “backstabbing” by some party functionaries, Modi said people win elections despite all these hurdles. “Backstabbing happens in most of the elections. However, one cannot blame this for defeat,” he said, adding the Bihar bypoll results will have no impact on the 2019 general elections.
 
 
