VIJAYAWADA: The image of the   (VMC), which is aiming to get top rank in the Swachh Survekshan 2018, is getting sullied by the condition of  .

 The VMC, which holds a 35% share in Jawahar Autonagar IALA, is supporting it in garbage management. But poor allocation of funds for   and garbage management is creating problems locally.
 
 Jawahar Autonagar, which has a legacy of 52 years, is at the receiving end of the apathy. Poor monitoring of situation from the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) and negligence of contract agencies are compounding sanitation problems in the area. “A close to 3-kilometre stretch of road from Kanuru cross to Autonagar bus terminal reflects the situation of sanitation in the area. No official of IALA is responding to this, and all of them have a common refrain — shortage of funds. The contract agencies monitoring sanitation in Jawahar Autonagar have failed in their duties. APIIC should take action against them,” demands Ch. Babu Rao,   of India-Marxist CRDA secretary.
 
 Negligence of IALA is affecting the lives of the daily wagers working there. The VMC, which is publicising its clean city campaign, should support IALA in cleaning Autonagar, locals say. 
 
 “Jawahar Autonagar gives an income of Rs 4.5 crore in the form of taxes to the government. We have deployed two agencies to clear garbage in the area. Around 50 sanitary workers and four trucks are engaged in clearing the piled garbage,” says IALA commissioner K Vijaya Kumari. “We are spending Rs 75 lakh per annum on sanitation as per earlier estimates. We are trying to boost the amount to Rs 1.5 crore per annum to improve the sanitation situation in the area,” she added.
 
 Open urination and defecation are continuing in major parts of the estate. Measures taken by the local body in controlling open urination have totally failed. “Public toilets in Autonagar are in very poor condition. The continuous stinking and unhygienic conditions are forcing us to go for open urination. Only a few toilets are in good condition,” says K Nagendra, a daily wager.
 
 
