GURUGRAM: A dedicated reception room to guide incoming pregnant women is set to come up at   in Civil Lines, where a 25-year-old woman delivered a baby in a cycle stand in front of the emergency ward after doctors and nurses delayed her admission last Friday.

 The proposed   Reception Room (PWRR), which is likely to be set up outside the emergency ward, will have a doctor and a nurse round the clock to receive, counsel and guide pregnant women. After analyzing their condition, the on-duty doctor at PWRR will decide if the mother needs to be rushed directly to the labour room or the gynaecology ward, instead of sending her to the emergency ward.
 
 The health department has issued a directive to the hospital authorities in this regard, taking cognisance of the woman giving birth in the cycle stand that drew sharp reaction even from Union health minister JP Nadda who ordered a probe into the medical negligence.
  
  
 Last Friday, the woman writhed in pain for almost two hours without any medical care, after she was sent off by a doctor to get an ultrasound done before admission and the test was denied for the want of an   card. Finally, she gave birth to a girl in the cycle stand.
 
 The health department immediately suspended a doctor and a staff nurse, who were found responsible, during the preliminary investigation, for the unnecessary delay in the woman’s admission. However, officials as well as residents observed more measures were required to streamline the healthcare delivery system at the hospital.
 
 Dr Pradeep Sharma, principal medical officer, Gurugram, said a PWRR would be in place by the end of this week. A doctor and staff nurse will be in-charge of this new arrangement, who would provide consultation to each pregnant woman before sending them further. 
 
 “This doctor will do the initial assessment and decide if the woman needs to be rushed to the labour room or gynaecology ward. Also, the doctor will decide if the woman needs to be taken for a normal delivery or caesarian one. In case of false pains, she will be checked and guided about the next steps,” Sharma explained.
 
 Further, now, emergency medical technicians (EMT) and ambulance staff will have to hand over a patient personally to the medical personnel in the reception room. They will have to get the on-duty doctor’s signature on the ambulance register as a proof that a patient has been duly brought to the emergency ward. In case of a pregnant woman, the EMT will take her directly to PWRR.
 
 The initiative to improve functioning of the hospital has inadvertently brought in focus the shortage of staff at the hospital’s gynaecology ward. According to hospital records, there are only six doctors in the ward who deal with 200-250 pregnant women every day.
 
 In 2017, over 81,700 pregnant women were advised and treated at the hospital. Out of these, around 47,400 women were treated in the OPD and around 27,800 were treated in the gynaecology ward. Also, 6, 500 pregnant women gave birth in the hospital.
 
 Meanwhile, a two-member team from the state health department in Chandigarh completed its inquiry in the delivery in the open, alleged medical negligence and denial of ultrasound test in want of an Aadhaar card.
 
 The team, comprising Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj and Dr BK Bansal, visited the hospital on Saturday, checked the CCTV footage, hospital records and recorded statements of the patient and staff members. The probe report is expected to be submitted by Wednesday.
 
 After the incident, the health department has announced that Aadhaar card is not a mandatory proof of identity at hospitals.
 
 
