VADODARA: Two persons were arrested and four others were booked for forging identity cards and sale deed of a land in Kalali, which was owned by a farmer residing in Karelibaug. One of the accused had even impersonated the complainant   for opening a bank account using fake documents.

 The accused have been identified as Manojrai Thakar, Mahesh Padhiyar, Manoj Bharwad, Raghu Bharwad, Ramesh Tadvi and Kano Bharwad.
 
 Patel told the police in his complaint that in December last year he learnt through public notice in a newspaper given by a lawyer inviting objections in a sale deed that a person with a similar name had carried out. The land in Kalali was bought by Patel from one Dhirajlal Gajera in 2006. Patel then approached the lawyer who told him that a person with his name Jaswant Patel had approached him with his Aadhar card and PAN details and paid money to publish the advertisement.
 
 Patel then gave an application to register complaint at Manjalpur police station and another application to sub-registrar in   saying that a person had used his name to sell off his land using fake documents and if the accused comes there to register the sale deed then he be informed. On Friday afternoon, the sub-registrar called Patel and asked him to come to his office as a person with similar name had come there to register the sale deed.
 
 Meanwhile, Patel also informed cops at Manjalpur police station and asked them to come to Narmada Bhuvan. On reaching Narmada Bhuvan, Patel confronted Padhiyar who had come there to register the sale deed. Police said that the man took Patel and his friend on the ground floor where five other people were already present there. When Patel asked who among them was Jaswant Patel, Thakar came forward.
 
 By then police had reached there and arrested Padhiyar and Thakar. Thakar then told the police that though he had got the sale deed done, the entire conspiracy was planned by Manoj, Raghu, Tadvi and Kano. All four of them have been declared wanted by the police. 
 
 
