CHANDIGARH: The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has threatened to take legal recourse if the   government goes ahead with its plan to appoint its legislators as legal assistants in the state. Meanwhile, the party has decided to launch an agitation against chief minister   for alleged inaction on the issue of drugs.

 Talking to newspersons after a meeting of party MLAs,  , leader of opposition, said that there was no constitutional provision for appointing legal assistants and it was being taken as a shortcut to accommodate Congress MLAs who failed to make it to the council of ministers.
 
 “It is an American concept where the legal assistants are paid to assist elected representatives. The concept is not there in the Indian context and the Congress is trying to introduce it,” he said. Khaira added that the state government had dithered in acting on the report of the special task force (STF) on drug trade and his party would launch an agitation in mid-May after the harvest season would get over. “The party has also decided to start a public contact programme and the first session will be held in  ,” he said.
 
 In reply to a question, Khaira said that there was no ego involved in not meeting the party high command and a decision on whether he and other MLAs will be open to meeting the leadership in Delhi will be taken after due discussion. Earlier, Khaira had insisted that meetings on Punjab affairs should be held in the state in line with the demand for more authority for the state unit. When asked about several AAP MLAs skipping the meeting, Khaira claimed that some were travelling while others were busy in the harvest season.
 
  Legally untenable: Bir Devinder
 
 Former Congress leader Bir Devinder Singh has criticised the Congress plan to appoint legal assistants. “The appointment of Punjab MLAs as legislative assistants will amount to violating the Representation of the People Act, 1950, in letter and spirit and will be untenable when put to judicial scrutiny. The appointment of an   as legislative assistant will be a disparaging act to demean the dignity of the elected representatives of the people. I wonder how Amarinder Singh has mooted such an indecent proposal for the legislators of the state,” he said in a statement.
 
 
