VADODARA: Every week, close to 100 kids of branch shala number one in Palanpur undergo spoken English training for five hours at the government school they are enrolled in. And around 80% of them have started speaking English during their recess time. 

 This thanks to Uplift Humanity – the New York-based NGO which around eight years back had started a movement ‘By the teens of US, for the teens of India’ in   to empower juveniles, orphans and kids from troubled family backgrounds across India through cross cultural education. 
 
 Since last two years, Uplift is running its annual summer programme at Palanpur for which NRI teens mainly having their roots in Gujarat used to volunteer forgoing their own summer vacations and precious pocket moneys. 
 
 It was only during Diwali festivities last year that the kids at the government school in Palanpur started undergoing a year-long academic programme. 
 
 “It is amazing to see that in just five months, these kids have actually started to speak English words. When I landed in Palanpur, I had no idea what to expect. But when you see that your programs are actually working, it is a great feeling. Our whole team in the   and India can see that all of their hard work is actually changing people’s destinies,” said Anish Patel, the 24-year-old graduate from New York University, who had founded Uplift Humanity as an NRI teen. 
 
 Upbeat with the success that its two programmes - the annual summer programme and year-long academic programme have received - this week launched its third programme on health and wellness at Palanpur. It is third such location in the country apart from those in Mumbai and Hyderabad. 
 
 As part of the programme, the kids are taught skills like mental health, oral hygiene, substance abuse, healthy eating among others once a week while the group is trying to cover other topics including women empowerment, learning about puberty and other critical skills. “Eventually, we want to make sure they have constant access to dentist, doctors and therapists to enhance their growth and development,” said  , director of health and wellness. 
 
 Interestingly, this month, the organisation officially educated its 1000th student while it is all set to launch its programme for kids in national capital – Delhi. 
 
 “This July, we will have over 100 Americans volunteers in India. Just like in the past, these volunteers will be teaching life skills like anger management, self-esteem development and how to deal with peer-pressure to these students,” said Anish, adding that while most of the volunteers in the past were NRIs, this year, several non-NRIs are looking to volunteer in India. 
 
 “Of the 100 students that we are bringing to India this year, about 50 will be coming to Gujarat,” he said. 
 
 
