CHENNAI: The killing of at least 11 people in   during the anti-Sterlite protest at   has pointed fingers at the police department, and revealed the gaping holes in the bandobust system in the state. In my career of 30 years, I have rolled out as many as 100 bandobust schemes for sensitive festivals like   festival, Thevar guru festival, Immanuel Gnanasekaran guru puja festival, Kandadevi temple car festival and Tiruvannamalai Karthigai Deepam festival that witnessed crowds in lakhs and have never seen shabbier handling of the public as we witnessed at Tuticorin. It was not only a failure of intelligence but also a lack of preparation, leadership and crowd anticipation that pushed police officers to resort to firing.

 
  During my initial days with the force, the first lesson I learned from then DGP S Sripal, was to completely eliminate fear from the mind while handling such situations. It is fear that makes one insecure and resort to extreme measures as was seen at Tuticorin. 
 
  
  
  "A little early, a little more and a little after" is another theory that Sripal taught us to handle the public at large congregations. A little early means we (police personnel) should assemble early at the protest venue. If the agitators have planned to assemble at 8am, we should be there at 6am. A little more means if the estimated crowd is around 200 people, we should have at least 300 police personnel with us. A little after means even after the agitation, we should leave a small strength at the place to ensure the agitators do not regroup.
 
 Such training came in handy when I was assigned with sending then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s body to New Delhi despite lakhs of people having gathered on the road to mourn his death, while I was assistant commissioner of police in  .
 
  Also, before every protest, a commanding officer should be prepared in advance and the line of command and unity of command should be maintained. A commanding officer is required to lead his/her team at the front and bolster their confidence. This was lacking at the protest site at Tuticorin.
 
 There are exceptions, when the police are pushed to a corner and retaliate in self defence. In one such instance, our team of 25 had a narrow escape during violent clashes between two groups of fishermen from the Muslim and Christian communities in September 1991 at Colachel. We were trapped in the area and the clashes and attacks on our team were so violent that the district revenue officer had no other option but to order firing at the rioters. Three were killed in the firing. 
 
  But if the planning is solid, one can avert such situations. If you fail to plan, then you are planning to fail. Communication should be very clear to handle such situations. The police personnel at the ground should always follow the orders of their commander and that’s why a single line of command is needed.
 
  After preparation, anticipation and constant review are needed to streamline the bandobust scheme. Topography should be kept in mind while preparing forces for protests. It is important to divide responsibilities and assign officers for each task. If more people are expected to gather, we must be prepared to keep double barricades. They have to be placed at every 25 metres and must be guarded by police personnel. Police should anticipate possibilities of a stampede, assault, use of lethal weapons and arson and plan to tackle them in advance.
 
  Senior officers should talk to those leading the protest before it starts. This helps in getting intelligence about the protest and views of protesters to gauge the severity of the agitation. Police at Tuticorin invoked section 144 only at select places, whereas it should have been invoked in vulnerable areas and if required arrests should have been done as a preventive measure.
 
  Firing should be avoided at any cost and should be the last resort. Officials should use water guns, rubber pellets and tear gas first. Police should be armed with long lathis to thwart agitators.
 
  Firing is an act of cowardice. If at all a firing order is issued, an officer should wait for the crowd to disperse after firing for the first time instead of incessant firing, like it happened in Tuticorin. For instance, during a communal clash in Ice House in 1991, in which two died and three policemen were injured, then police commissioner Rajasekaran Nair had to open fire at protestors, but did not allow anyone else to follow him.
 
  To imbibe these lessons, police personnel need at least one year of training but the training period was cut down to six months recently. One of the vital lessons of a bandobust system is to avoid angry retaliation against protesters. Police should not be provoked by verbal abuse. 
 
 (The author is a retired IPS officer)
 
 (As told to A Selvaraj
 
 
