BENGALURU: A city-based   was stumped by prison authorities’ response to his recent query — “who all have visited   (son of Shantinagar MLA N A Haris) in jail?” The officials refused to give information citing privacy concerns.

 The activist, T Narasimha Murthy, asked: “When jail authorities are making public the names of those visiting jailed AIADMK leader V K Sasikala, why aren’t they willing to reveal who all visited Md Haris at Central Prison (Parappana Agrahara) since February 21?” Md Haris was arrested along with his associates in connection with the assault on a youth, Vidvat L, at Farzi Café in UB City.
 
 Murthy has written a letter to the additional director general of police (prisons) alleging that Central Jail officials were trying to suppress something by refusing to give information. However, the officials denied the allegations. In the RTI reply to Murthy, jail authorities said they were unable to provide information as it would amount to   of the person concerned.
 
 Chief superintendent of the prison, Somashekhar, described the RTI applicant as a ‘third party’, with whom it’s not mandatory to share information. When asked how the officials had shared details pertaining to Sasikala, he said it was a mistake.
 
 Move raises suspicion: Ex-DGP
 
 However, former DGP S T Ramesh begs to differ from the prison department’s claim. He said: “The   may be trying to protect the inmate for some reason in the name of privacy. To ensure transparency, these details should be shared. Since a prison is a closed institution, there’s all the more reason for utmost transparency. Citizens have a right to seek information about visitors of convicts or undertrials. I don’t know what’s stopping prison authorities from sharing visitors’ details. In fact, non-disclosure of information raises suspicion.”
 
 Box: No home food being served to him
 
 Prison authorities maintained that no homemade food has been served to Md Haris in jail. The officials claimed Haris and his associates have been consuming food served to all inmates. In the RTI reply, the authorities also stated that Haris hasn’t made any calls from the phone booth inside the prison.
 
 
