GURUGRAM: The simmering rivalry between Haryana chief minister   and Gurugram MP Rao   spilled out in the open at Sunday’s event, marking the BJP government’s completion of four years in power at the Centre. Made to wait for an hour by the CM for the event’s inauguration, Rao Inderjit didn’t mince his words when he spoke, and left for Delhi in a huff before several projects could be inaugurated as scheduled.

 The   was supposed to reach Hero Honda Chowk on his way back from the PM’s programme in UP, where he was a last minute invitee according to sources. In the city, the CM was supposed to formally inaugurate the Hero Honda Chowk underpass, which has already been functioning for close to a month, and IMT Manesar flyover. Late by an hour, the CM skipped both spots and directly reached the Sector 14 college for an unscheduled event.
 
 According to sources, he was escorted to the college by PWD minister and Badshapur MLA Rao Narbir Singh, while Union minister of state for chemicals and fertilizers and Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh, along with GMDA CEO V Umashankar, Gurugram Mayor Madhu Azad waited at Hero Honda Chowk.
 
 Later, at the evening programme — Buddhijeevi Sangoshti — in MP Hall of Powergrid township, Sector 43, Inderjit said an Union minister was disrespected on the very day the central government was completing four successful years in power. He went on to question   on the delay in finalising the Dwarka to Gurugram metro route. The CM is said to have given a deadline for a meeting with DMRC to discuss the route, which has not taken place.
 
 In front of prominent citizens of the state, the Gurugram MP said the state government appears to have no concern for BJP’s successful completion of four years at the Centre. 
 
 “The Hero Honda Chowk underpass and flyover were built by the central government, but the CM didn’t have time to inaugurate them. What does he want to prove?” he said, while the CM was sitting on stage.
 
 He added the central government has played an important role in all development work on Gurugram’s roads and flyovers, and said builders looted buyers un-der the previous Haryana government, whereas the new real estate act — H-Rera — will benefit the state’s homebuyers.
 
 He also spoke of Gurugram being left out of the nationwide Smart City list, taking a dig at state BJP president  , who was also on stage.
 
  “I ask the CM to do something regarding Smart City. I too have to stand for elections from here,” he said.
 
 The CM retorted to Inderjit’s remarks, saying the latter should have reserved his views behind closed doors, saying he got delayed because of the invite from the PM. “Rao Sahib didn’t hold anything back, he has said it all in front of everybody. It would have been nice if Rao Sahib had said it in a closed room,” he said.
 
 
