KOLKATA: If you thought   love   only on their platter, sample this.   has spent Rs 8 lakh to decorate his   with 40  . Government employee Arunava Sharma’s collection is even bigger. Though he has spent half of what Bhaduri has invested, Sharma has 80 fishes in his collection. Spending Rs 1 lakh, businessman Sankar Saha is now a proud owner of flowerhorn, parrotfish, arowana.

 Maintaining aquariums is not something new but the hobby has just got bigger — and pricier — in Kolkata. Now-a-days, aquarists in the city are walking the extra mile to get good breeds in their collection, even if it burns a hole in their pockets. For some, it’s pure stress-buster. And for the rest, the call of the hobby is just too strong. 
 
 “The sight of my aquarium and the movement of the fishes act like a stress-buster for me. It refreshes me and keeps me in a good frame of mind,” said Bhaduri. 
 
 These colourful, ornamental fishes have high mortality rate. In spite of that, people are investing anywhere between Rs 30,000 and Rs 2 lakhs on a single fish. The investment, however, does not end here. To keep these high-value fishes, a specialized aquarium with thermostat and external filter is needed, which approximately costs Rs 1 lakh. “It is true that mortality rate is high but if we take proper care, they can live for many years. On an average, Rs 50,000 is required annually for maintenance, which includes food, medicines and water treatment,” said Sharma.
 
 According to psychologists, fish generates positive vibes. “When the outside world is so restless and disturbing, these fishes reduce our stress and provide us with an inner peace. So people now do not hesitate to spend hefty amount for a good life, when they can afford,” said Nilanjana Sanyal, psychology professor at Calcutta University.
 
 Ornamental fish has a huge market in Kolkata and people are showing more interest in these high-value fishes, feels ornamental fish consultant Bapi Banerjee, who is in this business for 12 years. “But there is hardly any initiative from the state government to boost this unorganized sector that has a tremendous prospect of generating employment and revenue,” he rued.
 
 “On an average, daily business touches Rs 40 lakhs. To explore this sector, the government should take proper measures so that captive breeding of good quality exotic fishes can be done,” B K Mahapatra, principal scientist at Central Institute of Fisheries Education, Kolkata. High-value fishes are imported from Malayasia, Bangkok and Hong Kong. Recently, discus breeding has started in few pockets of Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas. 
 
 
