Mohali: A day after Punjab local bodies department served a notice on municipal corporation (MC) mayor Kulwant Singh for his removal from councillorship over corruption charges, the house on Friday passed a resolution to condemn the decision, with 24 councillors out of 37 voting in its favour.

 Congress councillors and one SAD councillor did not back the resolution. However, all the councillors of SAD-BJP and Congress, were of the opinion that there was no corruption in the purchase of the tree pruning machine worth Rs 1.79 crore. The local bodies department has said the machine could be bought for Rs 28 lakh.
 
 Mayor Kulwant Singh said, “After the agenda was passed by the house for the purchase of the machine in January 2016, it was brought up in the Finance and Contract Committe, which cleared it. Later, it went to the local bodies director. Till then, there was no objection. Suddenly after around two years, objections crop up. It is political vendetta and has nothing to do with developmental works. The decision was taken in the favour of public, but it seems the opposition does not want the MC to deliver developmental works.”
 
 Calling it a misuse of powers by minister of local bodies Navjot Singh Sidhu and not him, Kulwant Singh said, “The minister has unethically issued the orders for suspension of a mayor. I never forced anyone to give a nod for purchasing the machine,” said Kulwant Singh.
 
 He said Sidhu seems to have taken the decision in haste without consulting the legal department. “The minister has not been properly updated about the agenda passed by the house as well as the proper cost bifurcation of the machine. His subordinates are misleading him by concealing the facts and putting up facts supporting their vested interests to dent my image,” said Kulwant Singh.
 
 BOX
 
 Technicalities ignored
 
 The agenda for purchase of tree pruning machine came up for approval of the municipal corporation house in January 2016
 
 Sources said MC officials called for tenders under pressure of councillors without signing of the agenda by then MC commissioner Uma Shanker Gupta, which is compulsory according to the MC Act
 
 Uma Shanker was transferred and new MC commissioner Rajesh Dhiman was forced to sign the agenda after the tenders were floated and company selected, said sources
 
 The machine was purchased without issuing work orders and a payment of Rs 90 lakh made to the company, sources said
 
 The agenda point was forwarded to secretary, local bodies department, which did not raise objections
 
 
