BATHINDA: The incumbent   and Shiromani   Dal (SAD) are all set to take on each other on the occasion of Baisakhi on April 14 at Talwandi Sabo town of Bathinda. They would be holding the usual event political event in the town that houses one of the five temporal seats of Sikhs - Takht Damdama Sahib - despite  's advise against it. 

 While traditional political rivals have decided to hold political conferences on the occasion, the main opposition, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has decided against it.
 
 Earlier, the Congress too was not in favour of organizing a political conference. However, in a meeting held at Delhi on Friday evening, the party top brass decided to hold a conference and directed the its leaders to start making preparations.
 
 SAD has already started preparations to make its conference, to be held at Diwan Hall of Takht Damdama Sahib, a success. AAP made it clear on Thursday that it would not have a conference but would perform the service by organizing a medical camp and undertaking a cleanliness drive during the Baisakhi mela.
 
 All three political parties had held conferences in 2017 at Talwandi Sabo. The Congress and the Akali Dal had organized conferences last year but chief minister Amarinder Singh and his predecessor minister   did not attend the events. Congress conference was presided by Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal while SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal presided over his party's event.
 
 Noting that during the conferences parties attacked each other, Akal Takhat jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh had last year asked the political outfits to avoid having such conventions on religious occasions.
 
 "In a meeting on Friday evening, party members decided to organize a conference outside Takht Damdama Sahib. We will make it a grand success and tell people what the Congress government is doing for the welfare of people and fulfilling its promises made to the people of Punjab," Punjab Congress president   told TOI over phone from Delhi.
 
 Punjab AAP vice-president Balbir Singh said, "Our party has decided not to hold political conferences during religious days. We will observe the day with religious fervour and perform social service."
 
 Akali leader and former MLA Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu said, "We have already started making preparations and expect a big rush at our conference. It seems AAP is scared of facing the people as it has miserably failed to discharge its duty inside and out the assembly as the main opposition party."
 
 He said they were not violating directions of the Akal Takht. "We will talk about religion and apprise people how the Congress government has failed to fulfil its promise of complete farm debt waiver," said Sidhu.
 
 
