PATNA: Researchers from Patna have found proof of gene expression abnormalities due to   and endosulfan (widely used pesticide) poisoning in Gangetic and stagnant water in the state. The samples tested revealed that it caused cancer and infertility.

 Studies were conducted on Swiss albino mice to determine whether genes get affected by the toxic metalloid and pesticide. The research project was given to  , Kankarbagh, by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR (ICMR) in June 2015. The final report with definite results about the change in gene expression will be submitted to ICMR by June this year.
 
 For endosulfan poisoning, samples of soil and water were collected from 17 districts in  . For arsenic poisoning, soil and water samples from river Ganga, ponds, wells, stagnant water and handpumps were taken from 27 districts.
 
 The study conducted to observe the DNA of male Swiss albino mice after administering endosulfan revealed a significant decrease in testosterone hormone and sperm count in the specimen.
 
 After administering endosulfan, it was confirmed that its toxicity led to asthenozoospermia (reduced sperm motility) resulting in infertility in Swiss albino mice,” said researcher Dr Akhileshwari Nath, principal investigator of the project.
 
 Nath said similar results were found by   and Sathees Raghvan from the Department of Biochemistry, Indian Institute of Science (IIS), Bengaluru in 2015. Besides fertility, researchers have already indicated that the pesticide (endosulfan) damages the DNA, including sperm. “Once endosulfan conjugates with the cell, it is hard for the body to filter it out and it remains in the body at low levels,” Nath said.
 
 In case of arsenic toxicity, it was found that arsenic deposition was taking place in muscles, cells and blood of the mice, which was affecting the gene interaction causing it to either be upregulated (increase in stimulus) or downregulated (decrease in stimulus), which in turn is responsible for cancer.
 
 “This also increases the chances of infertility, gastrointestinal diseases as well as skin diseases,” Dr Nath said. IIT Delhi and Kharagpur have been working on a machine to filter arsenic from water and bring the arsenic level to 0,” Nath said. 
 
 Dr Jitendra Kumar Singh, director of SS Hospital and Research Centre said: “Altogether 50 persons died in   village of Vaishali district due to cancer in 2017. Eighteen persons out of the 50 belonged to one family. The level of arsenic was quite high in the village. It was also found during our investigation that the village had a practice of spraying insecticides five times in their agricultural field instead of just once.”
 
 
