LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister   on Wednesday told followers of Sant Ravidas on his 641st birth anniversary that “fulfilling your aspirations is the duty of Prime Minister   and me as you brought us to power in the Centre and the state”.

 Yogi was responding to the Sri Ravidas Janamsthal Charitable Trust’s demand for better facilities for the followers of the 15th-16th Century mystic poet-sant of the Bhakti movement
 
 “You don’t need to request the government for better facilities here. It is our responsibility and we will provide all support. I have formed a three-member team to prepare a plan for developing the place as a pilgrimage site,” he told a huge gathering of followers of Sant Ravidas at Satsang Sthal. He reachedRavidas temple at 12.15pm and spent almost two hours. Seen as his dalit outreach, Yogi said, “Modiji visited this temple on the 639th birth anniversary of the saint in 2016. Hewantedtobe present today, but hecould notdoso. Instead he asked me tocome.”
 
 “Sant Ravidas dreamt of an equal society. PMModiisworking for an equitable society. He spoke about India’s poll processthat givesequal rightto people from all sections of society,” he said. He explained the reason for abolishing holiday on Ravidas Jayanti. “The decision will help next generation to learn about such personalities. Lakhs of students are aware of Sant Ravidas and his work as alleducational institutions were askedtoholdevents on hislife,” hesaid.
 
 
 
 Hours after CM Yogi Adityanath visited Sant Ravidas temple in Varanasi to commemorate the birth anniversary of 15th century ascetic on Wednesday, BSP chief   said such visits were a mere drama of   leaders who never follow the principles of the social reformer while resorting to violence. Mayawati accused the BJP and its associated organisations of misusing power to orchestrate violence in   in which a youth got killed. The BSP chief blamed the right wing groups for taking out the ‘Tiranga Yatra’ in Kasganj without permission from the district administration. Mayawati had last visited the Ravidas temple in Varanasi in 2008 when she was UP CM. She was expected to visit the temple in 2016 but cancelled the programme citing security threat
 
