MUMBAI: Six years after a businesssman’s 12-year-old son, Shree Bhandge, was kidnapped and murdered, a sessions court on Wednesday sentenced   Shaikh, 27, a former disgruntled employee of the child’s father, to death. 

 Judge   also sentenced   Ansari, 27, who was part of the conspiracy, to life imprisonment for the remainder of his natural life. Imtiyaz’s death sentence has to be confirmed by the Bombay high court. Two other accused—Israr Shaikh, 25, and   Ahmed, 44—were acquitted for lack of evidence.
 
  
  
 
 A fifth accused, who was 16 years old at the time of the incident, will be tried separately. The two acquitted accused were out on bail, while the convicted accused have been in jail since their arrests in 2012. 
 
 According to the prosecution, the accused kidnapped Shree, a class V student, on May 27, 2012, and murdered him the same day as they anticipated trouble if they kept him alive. Later, they kept demanding a ransom of Rs 25 lakh from Shree’s father,  , till they were arrested.
 
 The prosecution said Imtiyaz and Azad used to work at Rajesh’s business unit in Dharavi. Eight months before the crime, Rajesh fired Imtiyaz as he was not working properly. 
 
 Special public prosecutor Mohan   said, “The victim started protesting after being kidnapped. This perhaps caused panic and the accused battered him to death.” The boy’s body was put in a gunny bag and dumped in an open manhole on the Bhiwandi highway. 
 
 Later, the accused made calls to Rajesh and demanded the ransom, said the prosecutor. Sawant said Imtiyaz made seven to eight calls using different SIM cards but used the same mobile handset. “The police kept tracking the numbers, and on June 4, 2012, the accused were traced to Bhiwandi. Imtiyaz, Israr and the juvenile were apprehended from here,” he said.
 
 The three accused led the police to the child’s body, said Sawant, adding that the mobile phone used to make ransom calls and the SIM cards were recovered from Imtiyaz.
 
 “Call data records showed that the four accused were in constant touch with each other,” said Sawant. The trio also divulged the name of Arsil and Azad.
 
 The prosecutor said among the key witnesses were a “gola walla” from Juhu beach who had seen Imtiyaz and Azad with Shree on the day of the crime. Another witness was a waiter at a restaurant in Bhiwandi who too recalled having seen the accused with the child when they came to eat. A third witness, a roommate of one of the accused, remembered the presence of the child in their house briefly. “When the roommate asked the juvenile who the child was, he said Shree was Imtiyaz’s nephew,” Sawant said. 
 
 Also voice samples taken from Imtiyaz confirmed it was his voice on ransom calls, Sawant said
 
 While seeking death sentence, Sawant cited the “cruelty” in the execution of the crime. “Post-mortem reports showed about eight to nine injuries on the body of the boy. The child was physically assaulted in a manner in which his ribs had broken and severe injuries were caused to the lungs and heart, and he died,” Sawant said.
 
 He further submitted that the accused had brutally given the father the hope and impression that the child was alive and demanded the ransom even after his death. 
 
 Sawant examined 20 witnesses, including Rajesh. The case was mainly based on circumstantial evidence. 
 
 
