KOLKATA: Believers from far and wide are thronging a north Kolkata neighbourhood to visit aA “weeping” tree and have a brush with “divinity”, though scientists and rationalists have said it is the character of the tree and not a miracle.

 
  
  
 
 The “devotees” gathered in thousands as the news that water with healing properties is oozing out of a fig tree in   spread like a wildfire. Lights have been installed for the convenience of “devotees” after dark and volunteers are managing the crowd so that everybody gets their turn for a brush with the “divine”. The trunk of the tree from where water is trickling down has been draped with a red embellished cloth or churni just like a deity and people have already started collecting money for rituals and build a structure around the tree for worship.
 
 A day after the “weeping” fig tree started oozing water on Monday, the carriageway in front of   Higher Secondary School off Ultadanga Main Road got swamped with people who want to witness the “miracle” and the water which, according to some, can cure terminal diseases and prolong longevity. “It is a miracle. People who are trying to downplay this are unable to explain how so much water is coming out. But we have immense faith in it,” said  , a vegetable vendor in Muraripukur who has been managing the stream of visitors since Tuesday morning.
 
 It all started on Monday evening when civic workers were on a routine tree trimming drive. Every few months the   embarks on a drive to chop off branches which get entangled with overhead wires. On Monday, instead of chopping off some branches they cut off a big portion of the trunk which resulted in the water oozing out.
 
 The scientists, however, say it is a common occurrence with the fig tree that belongs to the Ficus family. They explain why the water rushed out for the first few days and why has the flow decreased. “This is the character of fig tree or dumur that draws water from the soil.
 
 If there is a cut somewhere on the tree, the water rushes out. It is not a miracle but a common occurrence,” said  , an environmentalist.
 
 But the believers, who have turned this Ultadanga pocket into a pilgrimage site, will have none of it. Though the number of “devotees” has thinned over the past two days, there are still close to 200 people around the tree at any given point of time. Some people can be seen collecting water in their palms and smearing on their head while others are sprinkling them on their kids. Some are also offering puja to the tree.
 
 Sheikh Sulaiman, secretary-general of  , who has visited the area several times since Monday, said the hysteria was at its peak till Wednesday. “We engaged some seniors in the area and told them it’s a natural process. We also distributed leaflets explaining the phenomenon,” he said. The stream of visitors has thinned down since Thursday morning. “This is because the flow has reduced considerably,” said Saha.
 
 “On Monday and Tuesday people donated generously. The collection ran into a few thousands. But this has decreased now as the footfalls have decreased,” said an office-bearer of the Mancha.
 
