JAIPUR: An alleged WhatsApp group named after the banned terror outfit “Lashkar-E-Taiba,” sent intelligence and   units of   and   into tizzy. They tracked down the two teenagers in Bhilwara and a carried out detailed enquiry on Monday.

 Rajasthan ATS IG Bijju Geroge Joseph said that no terror links could be established during the enquiry. “There were two 16-year-old boys. One is a student of Class nine while another is a dropout. The school dropout had recently brought a budget smartphone and asked his friend to help him use social media websites,” ATS IG said.
 
 The officials said that on Saturday, the Class 9 boy created WhatsApp group by the name of  . He sent invitation to many groups and asked people to join the   –e-Taiba group.
 
 Manoj Gupta, a resident of Lucknow, who was part of one of the group also received the invitation and filed a case at a police station in Lucknow, after which the UP ATS also began tracking the boys.
 
 The UP police contacted the Rajasthan ATS. “The UP police informed us about the group and also shared information about their location. We sent a team to Bhilwara and conducted enquiry with the two boys. No terror links or hint of radicalization came to the surface during the enquiry,” an official said. 
 
 The police also spoke to other persons and collected technical data to check if the duo had in the past any involvement in anti-national activities. The agencies heaved a sigh of relief when they found that it was mischief and nothing else.
 
 “Gupta was member of an e-commerce group where the invitation was sent, the group admin of this group is a resident of western Rajasthan and we are tracking him too,” the official said.
 
 According to Bhilwara additional SP, Paras Jain, the duo were not detained as nothing was found about them during the enquiry by the joint teams of UP and Rajasthan ATS.
 
 “They are immature teenagers, they also had some cheeky names for other groups like Boss boys,” an official of Rajasthan police said, adding that one of the boy had seen the outfit’s name on a website and also heard in news created this group, cops suspect they wanted to gain traction.
 
 
