LUCKNOW: Lucknow seems far away from realising the swachh dream when one sees littered roads and heaps of garbage. Various initiatives of the   have proved inadequate in cleaning the city. Besides garbage collection, even the waste disposal system needs upgradation. 

 The houses, too, are no exception. At present, more than 50% houses are not covered under door-to-door garbage collection and dump their garbage in the open. The civic body's initiatives like installation of dustbins in markets; providing two dustbins in homes for wet and dry waste; sweeping of markets twice a day, and hiring of more sanitary staff have failed to clean the city owing to lack of focus and implementation. 
 
 The city has more than 5,000 private sweepers, which work in various colonies. They charge less but clean the corridors, drains, and collect garbage from houses. Residents prefer them over  's cleaning staff. Rishu Pandey, a resident of Alambagh, said, "LMC workers collect garbage only thrice a week and even refuse to clean the drains in the colonies. Why should we hire them when they charge Rs 100 per month while private sweepers charge Rs 50?"
 
 But the biggest disadvantage with private sweepers is that they do not follow the waste disposal chain and instead dump garbage in open spaces, vacant plots and roads. 
 
 The Swachh Bharat Mission mandates municipal bodies to include private sweepers in their sanitary staff so that they can earn a livelihood and help in keeping the city clean. LMC had given this task to Eco-green, the rpivate company that collects garbage in Lucknow. But Eco-green has failed to do so. Moreover, its employees have struck work for a week now, which has made the city more messy.
 
 Vicky Agnihotri, a resident of  , said, "Stinking heaps of garbage on roads are a common sight. Garbage vehicles are rarely seen picking garbage from common places. Private companies, Eco-geen and  , hired by LMC have proved ineffective."
 
 Municipal Commissioner   said, "There has been lack of planning on LMC's part, but we are determined to get garbage collected from all houses by May end. We will select 5 wards in each zone and achieve 100% collection in them. This will be achieved by April 15. 
 
 
