NAGPUR: In a setback to   Puran Meshram, the Nagpur bench of   restrained the university from releasing his retirement benefits without its further orders. The court also expressed its strong displeasure over Meshram’s failure to reply to its directives. 

 The court’s directives came while hearing a petition filed by Meshram seeking extension of retirement age and also retirement benefits accorded to a teacher.
 
 “In this situation, we list the matter for further consideration on April 10, as a last chance. However, we restrain respondents from releasing any benefits to the petitioner after his superannuation, without express orders of this court in the matter,” a division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye stated.
 
 The court’s directives came after intervener Sunil Mishra, who is at loggerheads with Meshram, opposed the request by the registrar’s counsel for adjourning the hearing.
 
  He pointed out that on December 11, the HC had asked respondents to recover the amount from Meshram, but no steps were taken so far. He also informed the court that Meshram would be attaining superannuation in June this year.
 
 Earlier, senior counsel Mohan Bhangde, appearing for the state government, informed that it had asked the NU to take necessary steps and also called for original service book of the petitioner, which he was not handing over.
 
 The judges, however, noted that NU was yet to forward service book and even its counsel skipped the hearing. “We direct the university to forward original service book of petitioner to joint director of higher education in city, within a one week,” the judges said.
 
 In his intervention application, Mishra said Meshram’s appointment was illegal, as he joined NU as a labourer and never went before the selection committee. He alleged that the registrar took promotions by joining hands with NU top brass. Mishra said he had prayed for inquiry into Meshram’s “illegal” appointment.
 
 The former chairman of NU Mass communication board argued that Meshram was enjoying teacher’s salary for all these years, despite not possessing requisite qualifications and experience. “He was also demanding retirement benefits accorded to a teacher, which was later rejected by the state government,” said Mishra and added that Meshram’s appeal for extension of retirement age has already been rejected by the government. 
 
 
