HOSHIARPUR: The family of 35-year-old Surinderpal Singh from Kalyanpur village of Hoshiarpur, who had left home for   on December 3, has found that he was murdered in Bangalore and his body was cremated by Bangalore police after it remained unidentified since its recovery on December 6.

 According to his family, Surinderpal was bound for Canada after travel agents had promised him to take him there at Rs 21 lakh. However, the family also revealed that neither they had paid any money as the travel agent had sought the amount after he lands in Canada.
 
 Surinderpal operated his own taxi and also owned some agricultural land. He wanted to go abroad for greener pastures.
 
 “Harminder   of Chak Sharif village in   district had promised to take Surinderpal to Canada. He left home on December 3. He first took a flight from Amritsar to Mumbai and then he reached Bangalore. He called up his wife Palwinder Kaur on December 5 saying that he is with some other men from   and they would be taking the flight to Germany from where they would be taken to Canada. That was the last call from him,” Surinder’s brother-in-law Gobind Singh said.
 
 “We waited till December 10 and then met travel agent Shelly at his village who claimed that Surinderpal had been caught by Germany authorities and he was jailed there,” Gobind added.
 
 The family then lodged a complaint with Hoshiarpur police in mid of December which was marked to the economic offences wing (EOW).
 
 “Then we learnt that a youth from Shelly’s village had returned, who reluctantly told us they were tortured in Bangalore by the local operators. We also learnt that Shelly’s cousin had also returned. When we met him, he also revealed how he was tortured. He had also paid Rs 21 lakh. He told us that Surinderpal was tortured too,” Gobind said.
 
 “The EOW did not pursue the case actively and Shelly also secured a bail. Police registered a case on January 15 after we took up the matter with Hoshiarpur   J Elanchzian,” Gobind said.
 
 The SSP sent a police party along with Gobind to Bangalore on December 31 and there they met Bangalore police officials. “When we said our relative had a lion’s tattoo on his right arm, they immediately took out the pictures of a body they had found on December 6. It was that of Surinder,” he said.
 
 “We put the accused on technical surveillance, but they remained out of loop. Thereafter I sent the police party to Bangalore,” said SSP Elanchezian. He said Bangalore police had already registered the case under Sections 302 and 201 of the IPC while Tanda police had earlier registered a case of cheating, extortion and kidnapping against Shelly and his accomplices J D Patel, Sanjeev and Naresh Patel.
 
 “Now, police of both the places are looking for the accused,” he said, adding, “The reason for the murder is not yet clear.”
 
 
