CHANDIGARH: The UT administration that is facing severe dearth of IAS officers has given additional charges to its top officials.

 Chief general manager of Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (Citco) Uma Shankar Gupta has been given the charge of additional secretary, urban planning and metro; and additional secretary, housing.
 
  has been given the charge of director, higher education, which was earlier with Rakesh Kumar Popli. Popli has been made director, public relations, while the charge of director, social welfare, has been given to  .The administration is grappling withdearthof IAS officers. As of now, it is managing the affairs with only 10 officers.
 
 The UT administration is also managed by the officers from Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territories (AGMUT) and Punjab and Haryana cadres.
 
 As per the Punjab Reorganisation Act,1966,the vacanciesof officers aretobefilledin the raio of 60:40from Punjab andHaryana, respectively. Till March 2016, the administration had 18 officers, highest number in recent years, however since then the number has gone down.
 
 Key posts like managing director of Citco and Chandigarh municipal corporation commissioner arelying vacantfrom morethan one month.Postslike chairman of ChandigarhHousing Board (CHB) and secretary personnel are also vacant.
 
 Due to the shortage of officers, the administration is forced to burden some of its officers with multiple charges.
 
 Itisduetothisfactthatthefinance secretary,  , has been named secretary of as many as 16 different departments – agriculture, engineering, employment, estate/ housing, treasury and accounts,finance,food andsupplies, consumer affairs and legal metrology, planning, cooperation, information technology, excise and taxation, industries, localfundexaminer,labour, and urban planning/metro.
 
 Rana has also been given the charge of additional registrar, cooperative societies; secretary, Red Cross Society; director-cum-special secretary, technical education; and principalcum-head of department, Government College of Art.
 
