LUCKNOW: Annoyed over rumours about her proposed marriage to   president  , MLA from Rae Bareli Sadar   expressed her anger over the link-up on Sunday. 

 "I am really saddened by such baseless rumours being spread. Rahulji is like an elder brother to me. I ritualistically tie rakhi on his wrist. Those behind the link-up are absolutely wrong and aim to malign my image as also that of Rahul Gandhiji," the   told TOI. 
 
 On who could be behind the rumours and what could be their intention, Aditi said, "Talk of my marriage with Rahul Gandhi is propaganda in the wake of the Karnataka elections. The intention appears to be to distract the Congress leadership and workers toiling in Karnataka. It is anyone's guess who could be behind it."
 
 
 
 Photographs showing Rahul with Aditi, and their families began circulating on social media on Saturday. The caption said that Rahul had finally found a match and that Sonia Gandhi was talking to Aditi’s family to finalise things for the match.
 
 On Sunday morning, 29-year-old Aditi tweeted that she was very upset over the rumours.
 
 “Such rumours upset me. I would like to clarify that Rahul Ji is my   and I am really saddened by such rumours on social media,” she tweeted. Aditi also warned those behind the rumour.
 
 “Afwaah phailane wale baaz aayein (those behind the rumour must mind themselves),” she tweeted.
 
 In another tweet, Aditi clarified that the pictures used to support the rumours were taken during Sonia Gandhi’s recent visit to Rae Bareli. She added that her family knew the Gandhis for decades and the pictures were from recent meetings.
 
 The daughter of five-time MLA from Rae Bareli Sadar seat Akhilesh Singh, Aditi made her debut in politics in 2017. Her father had quit the Congress party a long time ago.
 
 Believed to have been hand-picked by the Congress leadership for the Rae Bareli Sadar seat, Aditi is said to be close to Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. A management graduate from Duke University, US, Aditi recorded a thumping victory in 2017. She defeated her nearest contender with over 90,000 votes to retain her father’s legacy.
 
 Sources said Aditi’s rise in the party had triggered resentment in Panchvati, the house of Congress MLC Dinesh Singh and his brothers. Her increasing importance is said to be the reason for Dinesh’s departure from the Congress to the BJP on April 21.
 
 On Friday, Congress moved Vidhan Parishad for disqualification of Dinesh’s membership.
 
 
