Remember Jagya in ' ' ('BV')? Well, this is how he looks now. Actor   has shed his boy-next-door image for a more edgy, stud-like persona. The hot bod that he’s flaunting is the result of a strenuous workout over five months. The actor initially planned to   after 'BV' came to an end, but could not as he bagged a role in ' ' ('JNDSD'). Shashank says, “I wasn’t getting good offers after 'JNDSD', so I decided to hit the gym. I worked hard on myself for five months. It included rigorous training of four hours a day, comprising abs workout, cardio sessions and a strict diet sans rice, roti, sweet and salt.”
He also cut down on social outings and parties. He says, “Whenever my friends planned a party, I lied that I was out of town. I didn’t want to waste my energy roaming around aimlessly; I didn’t want to skip my meals either. Fitness is extremely expensive, so I cut down on my expenses and shopping to become fit.”
 
 The actor believes that his new look will allow him to explore more genres, including mythology. “Talent is important, but fitness is also of prime importance today. Mujhe hero banna hai. If I take up a mythological show, I will be required to be bare-chested most of the time. So, don’t you need a body to flaunt then? People will know that I can transform myself as per the requirement of the character. Until now, people thought I am capable of playing only certain characters. There have been times when I was told at auditions that I am not macho enough to pull off some roles, but now, I have opened up a new dimension. I don’t want to be typecast; this is an attempt to reinvent myself and be a complete package,” he says.
 
 Ask him if the transformation will make people forget the character of Jagya with which he became a household name, and he replies, “I guess that’s also the objective. I can’t be hung up on one character as that stops my growth as an artiste. 'BV' has made me what I am today, but the show got over two years ago. Now, I want to attempt something different so that people remember me by a new name. Ek boy-next-door image kaafi chal gayi hai, mujhe aur bhi bahut kuch karna hai.”
 
 Shashank’s transformation has surprised his friends. But what about his father? “He isn’t too expressive, but initially, he said, ‘Acting toh chehre se hoti hai, iss sabki kya zaroorat hai? Fit hona chahiye, ye toh kuch extra ho raha hai. I think he is happy with the end result.”
 
 While 'BV' did wonders for his career, his character in 'JNDSD' couldn’t quite strike a chord with the audience. Ask him about it and he replies, “It’s impossible for every show to rake in high ratings. I gave my best to the role and transformed myself as the character was from the army background. I went in for a lean look, cut my hair and grew a moustache. But art is a team effort and an actor is dependent on the director, make-up artiste and many others. Only if they work well, can the actor give his best.”
 
 Shashank is clear that he will take up only solo lead projects. “I would also like to try my luck in  , as they are making real cinema. I hope I get lucky!” he signs off.
 
