LUDHIANA: Farmers’ organizations continued their protest on the third consecutive day. They sat in at   on the busy Chandigarh-Ludhiana road and tried to stop the supply of vegetables, fruits and milk to the city on Sunday. They are on protest from June 1 to June 10 in support of their demands, including minimum income guarantee scheme, implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report and debt waiver.

 Police officials said in view of the protest call, the authorities had diverted the traffic coming from   and   to city through Sahnewal. They added that there was not much chaos on the road because of it being a Sunday.
 
 “Our members held a sit-in at Kohara and checked the vehicles coming from Samrala and Machhiwara to stop the supply of vegetables and milk,” said  , general secretary of   (Lakhowal). 
 
 “We are now not going to protest on roads and have changed our strategy. We have constituted five teams of around eight farmers each. They will go in vehicles to villages and request the farmers to stop all supplies. If they don’t take our request seriously, we will plug their supplies. We want minimum support prices, adequate electricity to farmers, loan waiver and assurance of permanent minimum income,” he added.
 
 When the farmers were protesting at Kohara Chowk, some of them stopped a milk van of a private company and distributed its around 30 packets among people. The van driver was then allowed to go, but with a warning that he shouldn’t return with the supply.
 
 BKU (Lakhowal) office-bearers claimed that their call had received a good response from farmers. The general secretary of the organization said if their demand of adequate electricity was not met by the government, they would gherao the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) office in Patiala.
 
 BKU (Rajewal) president   had earlier said they were for a peaceful protest and had been requesting farmers with folded hands to follow the call. He added that they could only protest to exert pressure on the government.
 
 
