It’s an award movie. Do you really want to watch it?’ 

 Movie buffs hear this judgmental statement from an average viewer. But at a time when the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) is surging in popularity and National Award winners are hailed not just for their movies but for their socio-political views as is evident from the overwhelming support they have been receiving for their stance of not accepting the awards from anyone other than the President, one is tempted to think the mindset is changing.
 
 However, a recent statement from Abhilash, the director of the National and State film award winning movie  , hints otherwise. “Only if a good portion of the people who expressed interest to take selfies with and hug my film’s hero   had made it to the theatres, it would have really helped our movie,” he had said.
 The director also alleged that a few Kerala State Film Development Corporation (KSFDC) officials didn’t pay heed to his request for enough theatres to screen the film. What’s the road ahead for talented filmmakers who bring home awards, once they decide to release their movies in theatres? We find out:
 
 
 
 Many Malayalam movie makers who have won awards say that they are aware that their movies might not have the so-called ‘mass appeal,’ and wish to release their films not to gain profit, but to convey their messages or narrate a story that needs to be told.
 
 Abhilash himself explains the hurdles he faced. “To get people in theatres, we need to give good promotions and publicity. For that, we first should get a good number of theatres for release. In my case, we expected at least 25 theatres but got only around 10 — we couldn’t even release in all districts. Private theatres saying a no wouldn’t be surprising but we had to face it from government theatres as well. For movies like ours which are made in nominal budgets, it’s not easy to spend massive amounts on promotions. To give an all-Kerala ad on the release in leading Malayalam dailies, you need around `3.5 lakh and without releasing in all districts it will be a loss for the producer.”
 He says in that case, it will take at least 10 days for the word to spread and for the people to come to theatres. “All I was looking for is one show of 6 pm in as many theatres as possible, but couldn’t get it. The theatres screening it won’t even give a timely display for its poster.”
 
 He also says that the support seen in social media while announcing the film release doesn’t translate to theatre visits. He narrates an incident, “When Indrans won the State Award, director Sanal Kumar Sasidharan had commented on the lines of him not deserving it. When I posted that Sanal should first watch the film, many supported me and reacted against Sanal. However, he watched the movie soon after and gave his feedback. Most social media supporters, some of whom I know personally, didn’t even turn up in theatres.”
  won the State Award this year through Ottamuri Velicham, which is currently running in the festival circuit. He says, “My film is yet to release but many like me are not expecting any magical returns from the theatre. Even when you get a theatre, it’s tough to sustain the show. If at all you get the screens in government theatres there is no guarantee that the movie will be played as they need a minimum of 10 people to be screened, which are often absent. In festivals like IFFK, a film might get many screenings but that might not be the reaction in a theatre.”
 
 State Award winning filmmaker Vidhu Vincent is not planning a theatre release for her movie Manhole. She says, “It’s not that we don’t have viewers who appreciate movies at an intellectual level. The same person who might appreciate a movie at IFFK will have a different mindset while deciding to go to a multiplex with family. Middle-class interests and all the conventional expectations on films will precede it and so, theatre releases might not help.”
 
 From his experience, Abhilash adds that the KSFDC officials wouldn’t help either. “I am not blaming the corporation or the government, just a few officials. Soon after they told me they can’t give me theatres due to professional commitments, they said they can if I rent the screens. When I asked ‘Where do those screens come from then?’, they were beating around the bush.”
 
 The age-old image of award movies is also an issue, says Rahul. “Even before watching them, the tendency is to judge them based on the stereotypes in our movies as silent, dark, serious stories that average people won’t enjoy.”
 That’s when the award tag even becomes a liability, Abhilash says. “I remember years ago when Lenin Rajendran got the award for Rathrimazha, in one of his press conferences he had said because of the award, theatres are not taking an interest in the film. Funnily enough, after all these years, he is the KSFDC Chairman who asked us rent the theatre.”
 Rahul points out that Malayalam films now spend around `60 lakh for promotion. “My movie is made in `30 lakh budget and there is no way movie makers like us can market it for such a sum,” he explains.
 
 
 
 On his part, Lenin says Aalorukkam couldn’t get theatres as the screens were already booked for festival releases and he was approached at the last moment. “Just because a film won an award, we can’t prioritise it. All screens were taken by Vishu releases. Also, we have to pay our employees and can’t run a film spending electricity, without a good collection. That’s when we suggested to rent the screen or bring more people.” Doesn’t that mean screens are available? “No, we just meant he can rent screens at a later date,” says Lenin.
 As a filmmaker, does he feel that it’s the awards that are driving away the people? “I don’t think awards have become such a liability. People might not be coming as the subject doesn’t suit their taste. I don’t see it as an issue with the movie, but when we screen it, we can’t ignore the business aspect,” he explains.
 
 
 
 Abhilash says that sometime ago, it was announced that KSFDC will open more theatres. “However, I believe the government should pay salary. If it’s going to be purely money-driven, it wouldn’t help filmmakers here much. Government should take over this system.” He points out that minister A K Balan had helped him get a few theatres in a few places, but KSFDC took out a couple of them.
 
 Rahul feels that for a viewing culture like the one in IFFK to emerge, there should be a coordinated effort. “Or else, the prejudices will prevail,” he observes.
 HR professional Jerin K, a movie buff, also agrees with him. “A deliberate effort through which at least government theatres screen good films, without profit considerations, and does its share of work to bring in audience to watch them, is important to keep such filmmakers motivated. After all, we shouldn’t forget that it’s their efforts that help our industry that win words of praise from those like Shekhar Kapur.”
 
