PATNA: They call it ‘Neki ki Deewar’, or a ‘wall of kindness’ that has clothes for the poor and the needy hanging on it, which they can take away with no soul around to pry into their life.

 An initiative of the ‘Ashiana Nagar Theosophical Lodge’ and ‘Ashiana Shubhkamna Parivar’, the wall is in fact made of two bamboos and ropes just outside house number E/11 at Abhiyanta Nagar near Ramnagri Mor in Patna. 
 
 Abhiyanta Nagar is a colony of mostly engineers — serving and retired. “We, senior citizens of the colony, have been meeting once every month to discuss social issues. It was at one of these meetings that octogenarian Ram Narain Prasad proposed the launch of the wall,” said water resources department’s retired engineer-in-chief Atul  , who is the president of the Theosophical Lodge.
 
 Prasad, Varma and his friends worked on the idea, and another retired engineer-in-chief, Ram Naresh Prasad Sinha, offered a room at his house E/11 to begin the charity. The room serves as the godown for the clothes donated by good Samaritans and also as a venue for the meeting of the Abhiyanta Nagar residents — the young and senior alike, who are the members of the twin organisations that run the show.
 
 The wall was inaugurated on May 10 last year. Now, up to 30 clothes are collected from the wall every day. “Initially members of the two organisations had to go for door-to-door collection of clothes, but now many people walk to E/11 to donate the clothes they are no longer in need of. The dirty clothes are sent to a laundry before they are placed on the wall,” Varma said.
 
 Varma, 79, lost his wife in 2016. The couple has a daughter who has settled in Pune post her marriage. “Retired people of the colony like me have become social workers to keep ourselves preoccupied,” he told TOI on Sunday.
 
 Before the advent of winter, Varma and his friends circulated mobile numbers — 9431017941, 9431074933, 8084966933 and 9472239728 — for people wishing to donate clothes to contact them. “We got a large number of jackets, sweaters, blankets and mufflers,” Varma said and added no less touching was the fact that clothes vanished from the wall within an hour of their display.
 
 The cellphone numbers will remain functional throughout the year. “We appeal to people to donate dhotis, saris, bed-sheets and children’s clothes which have been lying unused at their homes,” said Theosophical Lodge’s Rup Narayan Prasad, a 45-year-old insurance agent who oversees the daily placement of clothes on the wall.
 
 Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Ltd’s retired MD   and College of Commerce’s retired professor R S Singh, who are members of the Ashiana Shubhkamna Parivar, recalled the suggestions to create the wall at the Ashiana-Digha main road. “But we thought that the needy might hesitate to collect free clothes from a crowded place. Hence, we opted for this off-the-road location,” explained S L Karn, another Shubhkamna Parivar member who retired as an SDO of the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited.
 
 Buoyed by the response to the wall, the Abhiyanta Nagar residents now plan to extend the initiative and collect old utensils and shoes for the needy.
 
 Incidentally, the ‘wall of kindness’ is believed to have been first conceptualised in the winter of 2015 in Mashhad, an Iranian city where few hooks and hangers were placed outside a wall with the caption: ‘If you don't need it, leave it. If you need it, take it’.
 
 According to a global media blog, the person who thought of this wished to remain anonymous. Back home, Prasad, who proposed the launch of the ‘wall of kindness’ at Abhiyanta Nagar, is currently in coma in a Delhi hospital and Sinha, who inaugurated it, died two months ago. The charity, however, continues, courtesy the residents of Abhiyanta Nagar.
 
 
