Trichy: A two-judge bench of the Supreme Court of India has appointed a former Madras high court judge to interview the 88 girls at the Mose Ministries’ children home before deciding on their future. Passing the order on a special leave petition (SLP) filed by Julia Jacob, a representative of Mose Ministries’ children home, the bench comprising justices S A Bobde and L Nageswara Rao has asked former judge K N Basha to interview the girls individually. The court had passed the order on February 16. It may be recalled that the home at Subramaniapuram here has been embroiled in a controversy since 2015 after the district child welfare committee (CWC) brought to light confinement of the girls in the unauthorised home for two decades. They were reportedly saved from female infanticide in Usilampatti in Madurai.  The case had seen several twists and turns including initial investigation by the local police followed by CBI and later by Madurai and Trichy district court judges. However, all the 89 girls had turned adults during the course of the case. While some of them were willing to reunite with their biological parents, a majority of the girls stayed put at the home. The founder of the home, A Gideon Jacob, 63, was also arrested by CBI in October 2017 on his return to India from Germany.  The bench, citing the argument of the petitioner’s counsel that the girls were capable of looking after themselves and therefore may be released from the custody of the district social welfare department, said, “However, by way of abundant caution, we consider it appropriate to have the girls interviewed by an independent competent person and a report in that regard be placed before us.” The court also said that the former judge will submit a detailed report about the interview within six weeks from the day of the order.  The interview was aimed at reading the mind of the girls about their future as they had shown stiff resistance to moving to other homes. The Trichy district administration and the district social welfare department had attempted to shift the girls to some other homes according to an order of the Madurai bench of the Madras High Court on January 8.  In fact, an SLP filed by the inmates of Mose Ministries seeking freedom saying they had turned adults had led to the order by justices T S Sivagnanam and P Velmurugan of the Madurai bench of the Madras High Court on December 11, 2017. The SC also asked the judge to conduct the interview at the mediation centre of the Madurai bench of the Madras high court. 