CENTURION: You've got to hand it to  . Humour is not his only forte. On a wicket that clearly looked doped, and had seamers losing control with each passing over, this man - the world's highest ranked bowler by some margin - ran in with a momentum that never showed a dull moment.

 
 Rabada, in any case, has a reputation where a batsman can never completely be set facing him. On a wicket as 'happy' as this one, he showed why.   for instance, after facing close to a 100 deliveries, still remained on the highest alert whenever this 22-year-old ran in.
 
 
 
 
 There's an actor in him, say those who know the boy better. Rabada indulged in drama at school. He surely knows how to build up one in a Test match. It was with the wicket of  , a leg-before that the batsman wanted referred. The bowler was so sure that he celebrated even before the giant screen began showing the line of the ball. It was one of the many moments that lit up South Africa's day despite a very cautious and well-constructed innings from Virat Kohli.
 
 
 
 
 
 On Day One, the honours were 50:50. Day Two was South Africa versus Kohli. In the morning session, as the hosts resumed batting at 269-6, India did not do themselves any favours. They dropped catches, two sitters, one at slip and the other a folly, as   helped himself past a half-century and his team past the 300-run mark.
 
 Yet, South Africa folding up for a mere 335 was in itself a shot in the arm for India. It won't merely rank as trivia that in the last five innings they've batted first at Centurion, South Africa have averaged in excess of 525 runs. In fact, Sunday was the first time they did not have a centurion in their ranks from the last five batting performances on this track.
 
 To give the Indian attack due credit, and R Ashwin the lion's share, they had done well to cage the opposition. In the process, Mohammed Shami became the seventh Indian bowler, and the third quickest, to pick 100 wickets or more in Tests.
 
 Now, what was needed on part of Team India going further was putting runs those on board.
 
 The Indian team management had clearly discussed the importance of picking 20 wickets in a Test to win it. Their batsmen certainly forgot the part about not giving away wickets in order to save it.
 
 In fact, the only member of this travelling Indian contingent who seems to be at peace with himself right now is  . Inside his mind, he could possibly still be struggling to figure why exactly he's not a part of this playing eleven. But again, inside that same mind, he'd know better he doesn't have to cope with the pressure the rest of his team is under right now.
 
 Kohli alone seemed to bat on a different wicket. Those trademark punches straight and through the covers indicating the touch he might be in to get that century. He needs it and so does India if the team has to mentally remain in the right frame over the next three days.
 
 The stump mics at the ground revealed the control   needs to have over the rest of his team, the reassurance that keeps coming from him, and a sense desperation that's becoming evident. But South Africa remained persistent.
 
 
