PANCHKULA: Two days after the   was released, two cinema halls out of four in Panchkula district on Saturday screened the controversial Bollywood movie after “finding the environment safe”. The multiplexes received full bookings.

 Cinema hall owners of Raj Hans, Sector 5 and INOX, Amravati Enclave, said they were feeling safe after monitoring the situation and screened the movie.
 
 “All shows are almost booked in advance for Sunday. Screening on Republic Day also received great bookings,” said officials of both the multiplexes.
 
 While nine shows are running in a day at Raj Hans, INOX is playing eight shows. Anil Kumar, manager, Raj Hans, said, “Cops and administrative officials had offered support from the first day itself, but we were scared of the protesters due to violence in some parts of the country. Now, we have decided to screen the movie after finding the environment peaceful.”
 
 Parmod Singla, 40, an advocate who watched the movie, said, “We are happy that movie released in our city as well. The movie shows the history of Rajputana culture. There is nothing controversial in the movie.”
 
 Gaurav Ramanujanwala, 38, a businessman, said, “The movie was flawless. I rate the movie 5 out of 5. There was absolutely nothing objectionable in it. We are happy that the movie has been released in Panchkula too.”
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (city) Adarshdeep Singh said, “We met the cinema hall owners on the day the movie was released and asked them to show it as we would provide them the sufficient security. One PCR Gypsy along with cops is present outside the cinema halls.”
 
 Multiplex owners said Haryana director general of police (DGP) B S Sandhu in his press conference assured multiplexes and movie theatre owners of security. The DGP also asked them to send a request to the deputy commissioner demanding security.
 
 The police had deployed 400 cops, including 200 in the city and 200 in four blocks of Barwala, Raipur Rani, Kalka and Pinjore. Police control room (PCR) vehicles also patrolled the city to maintain law and order.
 
 Panchkula police commissionerate had imposed Section 144 of the CrPC banning the assembly of five persons or more in the district.
 
 
