MOHALI: Punjab Educational Tribunal here on Tuesday directed the management of   Educational and Charitable Trust to issue experience certificates and relieving letters to the doctors that have been serving the college for the past many years. 

 Pearls Group MD   is the director of the trust.
 
 The orders have been issued on the back of around 150 petitioners, who told the tribunal that they were unable to get new jobs as   did not issue them experience certificates and relieving letters.
 
 The orders were issued by a bench of Justice Rajive Bhalla of Punjab and Haryana high court and a member of   Sandhu. Bhalla is also the chairman of the tribunal.
 
 Giving information, the counsel for the petitioners, advocate   said there were more than 150 doctors of medical and dental branch at Gian Sagar College, who had approached the education tribunal for directing the college authorities to issue experience or relieving orders/certificates for serving the institute so that they can get jobs in other colleges.
 
 "They had also sought from Gian Sagar Charitable Trust to clear their dues from October 2016 till the college existed," Garg said.
 
 He said there were around 100 cases of cheque bounces, which were submitted in the district court of Chandigarh. "Bailable warrants have been issues against Gian Sagar Trust chairman Dr Nitender Singh. Nitender had issued 300 salary cheques worth Rs 4-5 crore to his employees. The cheques were dishonored by a PNB branch in Chandigarh," the advocate added.
 
 Earlier, he added, the tribunal had issued orders to charge of the properties of Gian Sagar to pay the salaries approximately to the tune of Rs 15 crore to the employees and other staff members of the institute.
 
 "If Gian Sagar sells the property then first they will have to pay the salaries of the petitioners before entrusting the remuneration of the sold property with the trust," Garg said.
 
 On June 9, 2017, the chairman of the trust in connivance with other trustees -Barinder Kaur Bhangoo (daughter of Nirmal Singh Bhangoo); Harsatinder Singh (son-in-law of Nirmal Singh Bhangoo; Sukhwinder Singh and others - issued salary cheques to the employees, including the teaching and non-teaching staff, and all the cheques were dishonored.
 
 "After this, many approached the district court in Chandigarh and the court issued summons to Nitender in multi-cheque bounce case. Also, the teaching staff is about to lodge a complaint under section 420 of the IPC against Nitender for committing fraud with them," said advocate Parduman Garg.
 
 
