GAYA: As per official statistics released on Republic Day (January 26), about 7000 arrests were made in the district in 2017 for violation of prohibition law which means around 20 arrests per day.

 During an official review held at the   collectorate on Monday, it was found that in 40 days of 2018, only 19 arrests have been made so far that is one arrest every two day. As far as raids are concerned, official figures released on Republic Day say that in 2017, 4,000 raids were conducted in connection of prohibition laws.
 
 Figures also showed that so far 80 raids have been conducted in the last 40 days. In this respect also, the decline is all too obvious. As against over 10 raids per day in 2017, only two raids per day have been conducted this year.
 
 Though officials are not ready to go on record, sources said three factors are responsible for this decline. First, there is absolute lack of space in Gaya jail to accommodate the prisoners. The capacity of the   jail is 1,461. At any given point of time about 2000 prisoners (undertrials as well as convicts) are lodged in the jail. Capacity of Sherghati sub-jail is only about 250.
 
 “As, on account of the very stringent nature of prohibition law, those arrested have to remain in jail for long periods thereby shrinking space for others,”said social activist SB Bhaskar, who has been to jail many a time during agitations on land distribution and other issues concerning the downtrodden.
 
 Besides shortage of jail space, pre-occupation of the police force with law and order duties have also left them with little time to go the whole hog against the bootleggers. Moreover, for over a month, no less than 3000 cops were deployed in   to provide security cover to the Buddhist spiritual leader, Dalai  .
 
 On their part, bootleggers have resorted to smarter techniques like ‘home delivery’ and employment of innocuous looking women and children as carriers of  . “This has made the work even more complicated for law enforcing agencies,” said a source.
 
 
