NEW DELHI: The   for   in 2018-19   on  , but   can be   up now. 

 
 According to officials, the response in the first one hour has been “very good”, with the number of registrations crossing 5,000. This number, however, does not mean the same number of submissions as applicants can’t progress unless they furnish academic details. 
 
 The personal details are in the first tab of the form, and the second tab has academic details. While the Indian School Certificate (ISC) examination results have been declared, Central Board of Secondary Education is likely to announce its results in another week. But unless these exam details are filled up, applicants cannot move on to fill course preferences, sports and extracurricular activity details. This will delay the process, though the portal was opened early to help students avoid the last-minute rush.
 
 To avoid any technical glitch in the admission portal, the DU administration has revamped its software and even included contact numbers of the ICICI Bank portal in case of payment issues. Last year, there was no gateway portal for secure payment transactions.
 
 The applicants will have to register themselves with the portal, using their name on the exam certificate, a phone number and a valid email ID. On registration, the portal will send each applicant a unique form number, which is to be used for reference during admission and administration purposes. 
 
 The applicants interested in applying to minority colleges like St Stephen’s and Jesus and Mary will have to fill up the respective college forms. Though the admission forms for these colleges are separate from the centralised university form, all aspirants will have to register on the university portal first and produce the unique form number while applying at these colleges. 
 
 A few hours after the portal went online, the administration released the bulletin of information, which has a step-by-step guide of how to fill up the form and calculate marks to meet the cutoffs.
 
 The portal, though officially available by 6pm, took some time to open at some locations. Officials said the delay was because the servers were taking time to display the portal. 
 
 The administration, as against the norm of opening the portal in the morning, this time decided to open it in the evening.
 
