NAGPUR: Some of the well-known and oldest institutions of city and region are among the latest list of 39 colleges where admissions have been frozen by the   (NU). The number of courses to which admission have been stopped in these 39 colleges too are highest so far under the three different categories of action taken by NU.

 
 
 Nearly nine-decade-old Lady   (LAD) College, North Ambazari, set up in 1932, is the oldest institute to face the action followed by 83-year-old Dhanwate National College ( ).
 
 Thirty-nine blacklisted courses make New Arts, Commerce and Science College of Wardha the worst-hit among the 39 colleges. Courses at these colleges have been banned for the want of full-time regular teachers. St Francis de Sales, CP & Berar, RS Mundle, Binzani, City Premier etc are among other popular names.
 
 In the previous list, the NU had blacklisted 209 colleges under three categories — ones that didn’t apply for continuation of affiliation (98), ones that applied but did not invite LEC teams (29) and institutes having no teachers despite getting affiliation (82). The 82 such institutes didn’t have names which were decades old while the maximum courses banned in one of them were 8.
 
 But in the latest list, admissions to 130 courses like MSc, MTech, MA, BCom, BA, M.Phil have been frozen. The NU has accounted only 32 from New Arts, Commerce and Science College of Wardha while seven more from the college are bracketed in MSc and MA courses which would take the tally to 137.
 
 Some of these college officials were shocked to find their names in the list and claimed that their courses had approved teachers.
 
 DNC ex-principal and chairman of RTMNU Principal’s Forum Baban Taywade slammed the NU top brass for targeting colleges over personal issues. Without naming CIIMC, which was disaffiliated in a separate action recently, Taywade said the university is going after all colleges just to validate it action against one college. “Courses are being run for several years. How is it possible that there are not teachers?” he asked.
 
 New Arts, Commerce and Science College principal Prashant Kadwe expressed surprise on learning about the inclusion of 39 courses from his institute. “We has submitted sanction letter from government, affiliation letter and list of courses without teachers to university. But, it seems there are certain courses which have been wrongly included in the list. We will bring it to the university’s notice,” he said.
 
 Kadwe admitted that some of the courses were not having full-time teachers. “We have invited applications and interviews will be held soon. We will have regular faculty from this session,” he said.
 
 NU officials admitted there were some glitches in the list which was duly revised and uploaded.
 
 “Institute of Science, Ramdeobaba College of Engineering and Madhuritai College of Physical Education were erroneously included in the initial list on Saturday. The tally then came down from 42 to 39. Another issue was about CP & Berar College’s MCom course which was removed from the list. Now, there is no question of any inaccuracy,” a college section official told TOI.
 
 The official said the list carries founding year of colleges to inform people how they have been running courses without teachers all these years.
 
 
