MYSURU: Close on the heels of All India Congress Committee (AICC) president Rahul Gandhi’s Janashirvad Yatra in North Karnataka, the BJP is all set to take the battle to the Congress on chief minister Siddaramaiah’s home turf – Mysuru.

 The BJP is set to sharpen its attack on the Congress government at a mammoth rally at Maharaja’s College Grounds on Monday at which   will assume centre stage. The rally is expected to be attended by people from all five districts comprising the   – Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan, Kodagu and Chamarajanagar. While the saffron party is trying to strengthen its base in Kodagu, it is determined to wrest Mysuru and Chamarajanagar from the Congress, which registered an impressive performance in the two districts in the 2013 polls.
 
 While the PM is expected to sharpen his attack on the CM, the party’s state leadership is working hard to make inroads into Mandya and Hassan districts. In the Old Mysuru region, the BJP has legislators only from Kodagu. For the party to realise the target of ‘Mission 150’ that it has set itself, it needs to have a strong presence in the Old Mysuru region, where the Vokkaligas and Lingayats will play a decisive role in shaping the electoral fortunes of the political parties. 
 
 BJP leaders said that there were expecting the crowd at the Modi rall in Monday to touch one lakh. As many as 1,000 buses have been arranged to ferry people to the rally. “The focus is on getting more youngsters to attend the rally,” said sources. The PM’s rally is scheduled to start at 3.45pm. Apart from Modi, former CM and BJP Karnataka president BS Yeddyurappa, Union ministers DV Sadananda Gowda, Ananth Kumar, Prakash Javadekar, Piyush Goyal, and the BJP’s Karnataka in-charge Muralidhar Rao will be in attendance at the rally.
 
 Former CM SM Krishna is also expected to be in attendance at the rally. The Special Protection Guard have assumed charge of security at the Maharaja’s CollegeGrounds, while city police have beefed up security in and around the venue. Police have designated four parking spaces, and provided as many entry points to the venue.
 
 Mysuru police have also ramped up security at the star hotel where the PM will flag off railway projects. Owing to security concerns, entry to the event has been restricted to officials.
 
 
