PATIALA: The long pending dream of The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH),   to accommodate a post-graduation (PG) course in transfusion medicine has failed to see light of the day. Reason? A dearth of staff. The institute has been applying for this course for over a decade now, but has always failed failed to get an approval from the regulatory body   (MCI). 

 Apparently, the inspections are conducted by the MCI and it had most of the times found that the GMCH laked faculty to run the course. The authorities of the medical college say that they are only waiting for a green light from the authorities concerned and have enough space and infrastructure to facilitate the course.
 
  It was found that in a bid to run the MD transfusion, the institution needs at least four faculty members qualified as MD transfusion and MD pathologist or microbiologist. The college already has an MD pathologist and an assistant professor. However, it is facing a shortage of two more professors, who could meet the required eligibility to teach and thus run the course here. 
 
 As of now, there are two colleges in   that offer MD transfusion medicine course. However, it would prove to be a boon if GMCH here, too, could pursue it. 
 
  "We have a shortage of two faculty members to run this course. We had applied for the course numerous times before as well but some reason, the institution failed to bag an approval to run this course," said MD pathologist  .
 
 Only two institutes -- Baba Farid University of Health Science Faridkot and the DMC Ludhiana - have this PG course in Punjab. The students will have a lot to gain once GMCH, Patiala gets its hand on this course as the institution accommodates the biggest blood bank in the state," Kanchan added. 
 
  GMCH, Patiala has the biggest blood bank in the state that records the highest collection and distribution of the blood units.
 
 "It has recorded over 18,000 units of blood in collection, whereas the distribution is far more than this when the blood units, platelets and others are counted separately. Every year Patiala blood bank records the higher collection and distribution but has been left ignored," an official of the blood bank said. 
 
 "This course is crucial for the medical college as students can learn a lot about the blood component separation, blood quality control, and blood transfusion that is not taught in MBBS. This is a specialisation course that can be done after MBBS and   has been applying for this for over 10 years but the MCI has time and again rejected, following the dearth of shortage," the official said.
 
 
