GURUGRAM: In a first, an RWA has filed a   to the chief minister alleging discriminatory behaviour by a government agency towards residents. 

 The   RWA has alleged Huda is charging a higher   for drinking   from them than rest of Gurugram. The rate of water the Palam Vihar RWA pays is Rs 10 per kilolitre, compared to Rs 2.50 per kilolitre elsewhere, alleged the RWA. RWA president Sunil Yadav claimed that compared to residents of other Gurugram sectors, who get water “delivered to their doorsteps” by Huda, in Palam Vihar, water is supplied at three points, a single one for each of the three blocks — C1, F and K.
 
 Since Palam Vihar RWA manages the colony’s maintenance, including water supply, water received from Huda at these three points has to be further boosted to the three overhead tanks, each 30m in height, by the RWA, for which they incur extra expenditure on electric motors, electricity and other distribution expenses, required to deliver drinking water to residents across all 14 blocks of the colony. 
 
 Elsewhere in Gurugram, bills for water supply are raised based on various slabs, starting from Rs 2.50 per kilolitre. But in Palam Vihar, Huda charges a flat Rs 10 per kilolitre. Yadav told TOI this is a clear case of   against Palam Vihar residents. “Residents are up in arms against the unjustified flat rate charged for water supply by Huda, not to mention the extra expense they have to bear on distribution,” said Y P Sharma, RWA general secretary. 
 
 Meanwhile, he added, since the time the government announced that MCG will take over maintenance of Palam Vihar colony, residents have stopped paying the RWA both maintenance and water charges. This puts the RWA in a double bind. While Huda is authorised to disconnect water supply for defaulting on water charges, the RWA can’t disconnect water supply of defaulting residents. “This has led to mounting arrears of Rs 2 crore. Huda keeps sending us letters warning of water supply disconnection,” said Ashok Katyal, a resident. Neither can we recover the outstanding amount from residents, nor can we ignore Huda’s threat of disconnection, said the RWA president. 
 
 In their complaint to the chief minister, the RWA has demanded the government levy slab rates for water supply to Palam Vihar, instead of the flat rate of Rs 10 per kilolitre. “We also demand the government to authorize the RWA to take suitable action, including disconnection of supply, against defaulters. Otherwise, MCG should at least take over water supply of the colony, pending final takeover,” reads the letter. 
 
 When contacted, a senior Huda official said there is no discrimination against any resident.
 
 
