Surat: Construction of new administrative building of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on 35,000 square metre land in the city is likely to start by year-end. The stone-laying ceremony for it was performed by then chief minister Anandiben Patel in 2015. A few shortlisted companies are likely to present their designs to the municipal authorities within a month for finalization.  BJP dispensation in the city had zeroed in on old sub-jail land on Ring Road for the SMC building eight months ago after a delay of more than three years. The project was delayed as the Airports Authority of India had refused permission for construction of 60-floor building of SMC as it came in its flight path.  The SMC building’s height can’t be more than 33 floors because it happens to be located in the vicinity of the airport which someday is expected to witness international flight operations.  Recently, the municipal commissioner had called for new expression of interest for the project and 17 companies qualified in it. “We have asked all these companies to come up with their designs within a month’s time. Our officials will scrutinize the designs and five best will be selected for finalization by a six-member committee,” municipal commissioner M Thennarasan said.  This six-member committee consists of municipal commissioner, mayor, deputy mayor, standing committee chairman as well as leaders of ruling and opposition parties in the corporation. The whole process is likely to be completed within three months following which tenders for the building project will be floated.  “We expect construction work to begin by year-end,” M Thennarasan said. The new building, which is to come up on 35,000 sq mt area, will incur a cost of Rs100 crore. SMC offices will occupy 13 floors of the building while the rest will be rented out to state and central government offices in the city.  “We are not going for commercial sale of space in the SMC building. It will be for use by SMC and government departments only,” Thennarasan added. 