KOLKATA: From the New Market fire in the late 1980s to the Surya Sen Street Market blaze in 2013, in which 19 people died, Kolkata has witnessed several such fires but has failed to learn lessons. The early morning blaze at   market on Monday has once again cast a spotlight on safety measures — or the lack of them — across markets in Kolkata.

 According to the National Building Code of India, commercial establishments should have fire extinguishers, hose reels, wet risers, an automatic sprinkler system, fire alarm system and water tanks on the terrace and below the ground, among other things. But most markets TOI visited on Monday did not even have one-fourth of the mandatory fire-fighting equipment. Fire disasters are just waiting to happen in these markets.
 
 “There is a furore after every blaze. Committees are formed as a knee-jerk reaction and inspections are made. But within a few days, everything is forgotten till the next big fire breaks out,” said a senior official of the fire department.
 
 While meter boxes lie neglected and electric wires hang dangerously at   in Bhowanipore, sand buckets were found missing and exits were blocked by tables at Tiretta Bazar in central Kolkata. Plastic pipes, ply boards, polythene and thermocol boxes — all combustible and difficult to douse — can be found in more than 15 markets in Canni-ng Street. 
 
 Most fires in Kolkata are caused by faulty electrical wiring, says a senior fire department official. “Most of the markets continue to have old wiring with little or no maintenance. Also, people prefer to use cheap plastic wires, which can be hazardous,” he said.
 
 None of the markets had the mandatory fire alarms and sprinklers which minimise the damage and prevent the fire from spreading. There were fire extinguishers only in Tiretta Bazar while passages were blocked in almost all the other commercial establishments.
 
 Soon after Nandaram Market was gutted in 2008, a committee comprising representatives of police, KMC, CESC and the fire department visited over 40 markets across the city and drafted a set of fire-safety guidelines. Similar teams were also formed after the fires at   in 2010 and   in 2011 to identify fire traps. But even after so many years, more than 90% markets are not prepared to fight a fire. Only a few have implemented the measures and many remain ill-equipped.
 
 A businessman in Ezra Street market said the fraternity was complacent about safety because of inadequate surveillance. 
 
 “There are no surprise checks by the fire department. CESC officials never enter the markets to check the state of the wiring when the civic body renews licences,” he said.
 
 
