NEW DELHI: There are significant   of attacking  , but addressing them involves challenges, the   has said, suggesting that policies should rely on using incentives and “carrots than on sticks”.

 Citing the example of spectrum, coal, and renewables auctions it said that these may have led to a “winner’s curse”, whereby firms overbid for assets, leading to adverse consequences in each of these sectors, but they created transparency and avoided rent-seeking with enormous benefits. “The lesson is that policy design must minimise these costs wherever possible,” the survey said.
 
 “More specifically, there should be: greater reliance on incentives and carrots than on sticks; greater focus on addressing the flow problem (the policy environment that incentivises rent-seeking) than the stock problem; and more recourse to calibrated rather than blunt instruments (like bans, quantitative restrictions, stock limits, and closing down of markets, including futures markets),” it said.
 
 It also cited the impact GST and demonetisation had on the informal cash intensive sectors of the economy as well as the resolution of the bad loan and stressed balance sheets of companies.
 
 The survey said the decision to ban promoters of firms with non-performing loans from the   auctions may have been necessary to minimise the moral hazard, otherwise firms would have an incentive to default on their loans, then offer to repay them at a discount. “ But it carried the possibility of fewer bidders and lower prices in the auctions of the insolvent firms,” it added.
 
 Stating that ambivalence relating to the private sector is linked to the experience with Indian capital, the survey said the private sector has had always had to struggle with the stigma that came with being “midwifed” in the licence-quota-control Raj. It said some of that stigma was washed away in the IT boom triggered in the 1990’s because the sector “had developed on intrinsic competitive merit rather than proximity to government”.
 
 But the stigmatisation was reinforced in the mid-late 2000’s because of what the survey said the intense rent-seeking and corruption associated with the allocation of spectrum, coal, land and environmental permits. The public perception was that India had “capitalism without equity,” and this further exacerbated the negative perception of Indian capital.
 
 “Now even the IT sector is confronting governance challenges, as its model of providing low-cost programming for foreign clients comes under threat from rapid technological change. So, one might say India had moved away from “crony socialism to stigamtised capitalism”, the survey said. “It is that zeitgeist (for Maahaul) of stigmatised capitalism — an accumulated legacy inherited by the government — that made policy reforms so difficult and makes the recent progress in addressing the twin balance sheet (bad loans and stressed firms) challenge noteworthy,” it added.
 
 
