LUDHIANA: There is a ray of hope for children of   village, 22 kilometres from here. District education officer (secondary)   on Wednesday sent a proposal to education minister   to upgrade the village primary school so that children do not have to cross the unsafe Mattewara forest to reach higher and senior secondary schools. 

 The move comes a day after The Times of India highlighted the plight of Garhi Fazil, where more than 50% girls do not study beyond Class V. The village has one government primary school with enrolment of 23. In the absence of a high school and a senior secondary school here and in adjoining villages, most of the girls drop out after completing primary education. Only few parents allow their children to travel through the forest area to study further. The unsafe route and monkey menace make the journey tough. 
 
 On Wednesday, Swaranjit Kaur, along with the education department officials, visited the village and interacted with its residents. 
 
 “The forest route is dangerous, especially for girls, as drug addicts often escape there. Besides, there have been several instances wherein monkeys bit schoolchildren and snatched their lunchboxes. Parents are hesitant to send girls to Mattewara, 4 kms away, for higher education and to   village, which is 8 kms away, for senior secondary education,” a villager told the education department team.
 
 The team later visited the forest area, too. “The route children take through the woods to reach schools in other villages is quite unsafe,” said Swaranjit Kaur.
 
 The district education officer (secondary) also spoke to children. “Kids said the forest was abounded by monkeys. We visited Government High School, Mattewara, where children of about five villages, including Garhi Fazil, study. As that school has less infrastructure as compared to its strength, several students attend classes in corridors. I have, therefore, sent a recommendation to the education minister to upgrade the Garhi Fazil primary school,” she added.
 
 The village primary school has enough vacant land where buildings for higher and senior secondary schools can be constructed, said  , a resident of the village. 
 
 
 
 When the education department officials reached Garhi Fazil, villagers, especially women and girls, met them in numbers and shared their plight. 
 
 
 
 Villagers said as their daughters do not study beyond Class V, it was difficult to find good and educated grooms for them. 
 
 Tarsem Kaur, 58, said, “As the village has only a primary school, my daughter did not study beyond Class V. The same is the case with my granddaughters. As a result, we face much difficulty in finding a good match for them.”
 
 
