JAISALMER: Tourists have flocked Jaisalmer to celebrate New year specially in   Dunes. As per the information there were more than 20000 vehicles were gone in   and overall more than 1 lakh tourist in Sam and total 2 lakh tourist have enjoyed the new year in Jaisalmer. Jaisalmer being connected with air service there is boom in tourism business. There are so many tourists that 12th century city is looking too small for the crowd. Hotels have been decorated like brides and all trains coming to jaisalmer are full due to large number of tourists and tourists have reached from their own vehicles. The roads of the city appear small due to large number of vehicles. On changing the date, huge and beautiful fireworks was busted. Lot of dignitaries have come to Jaisalmer to celebrate the New Year in desert and get themselves relaxed amid sand, camels and sunny days and cold nights and Rajasthani folk music. Also Special Arrangement has been to make the trip memorable by Palace on wheel Management and put new year banner on train.

 Domestic and foreign tourists of palace on wheels at Jaisalmer are celebrating new year. They danced to the music of hindi movie songs and extended wishes to each other. They danced till late night. They cut the new year cake and enjoyed fireworks and cultural program’s. Tourist congratulated each other and give new year wishes to each another. 
 
 Palace on Wheels was decorated with light and tourists were served with delicacies including Indian and continental dishes. All 70 guests danced and dinner on board with New Year cake and glass of champagne. Most of them are Americans’, British and NRI’s.
 
 Palace on Wheels GM pradeep bohra said On Sunday morning, the train reached Jaisalmer on Sunday from Udaipur in a dance fog and were extended traditional welcome and langa manganiyar gave performance. On arrival it was special welcome by Garlands and Tikka. Traditional music by langas and thrilling sight of ten decorated Camels. All guests were greeted by rose buds and New Year welcome banner by Management of Palace On Wheels. 
 
 He said there are 70 tourists including 42 americans and train was decorated attractively. Special arrangements were made to make new year memorable. All guest Tonight will be enjoying their Dinner Dance BAR be QUE and social kalbaliya dances and exquisite FIREWORK.
 
 One Couple of Palace on wheel Kristshtan Thomus and   from   said this tour of Palace on wheels is memorable being New year Special, all places are crowded, We have given Maharaja and Maharani treatment by Staff. Staff, Food and Services are impeccable. We are enjoying in 12th Century town Jaisalmer. We love its Carvings camel sand dunes.
 
 
