PATNA: Shivani Kumari of International School, Vaishnavi Jha of St Michael’s High School ( ), Ananya of Hartman Girls High School and Veenapani of St Karen’s High School emerged as winners of the 10th Brother Raymond Painting   organized by Loyola High School (LHS) on its campus on Wednesday.

 Different topics were given to the participants in the competition that was categorized into four groups — Blue House (classes III and IV), Red House (classes V and VI), Green House (classes VII and VIII) and Yellow House (classes IX and X). 
 
 In the Blue House, Vikash of LHS and Sourya Pratap Singh of SMHS bagged the second and third prizes, respectively. The topic given to them was ‘The Magic of Monsoon’. Red House participants Shams Ali (LHS) and Ridhi Priya (Notre Dame Academy), whose topic was ‘A Village Scene’, won the second and third prizes, respectively. In the Green House, Ipshita Ravi (SMHS) and Raj Nandini (St Paul’s High School) drew on the topic ‘Save the Girl Child’ and stood second and third, respectively. Yellow Group participants Rohit Kumar of SMHS got the second prize and Ishita of Delhi Public School stood third. The topic given to them was ‘World Peace’.
 
 At least 11 city schools participated in the painting competition that was adjudged by Patna Women’s College assistant professor Yamini, Institute of Industrial Design’s faculty member Tapan Biswas and sculptor Sanyasi Red. 
 
 The trophies and certificates were distributed by LHS principal Brother Satheesh K Don and vice-principal Brother Sunil.
 
 Tagore’s birth anniv: Students of Dr D Y Patil Pushapalata Patil International School on Wednesday presented an array of cultural programmes to mark the birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore. 
 
 Primary wing students Bhavya Sharma, Suman Kumari, Ritika Chandel, Pankhuri Sinha and Nivideta Prerna presented ‘Rabindra Nritya’ while the school choir sang ‘Ekla Chalo Re’. A group of students also staged a play on the life of Tagore and recited his poems.
 
 The programme was inaugurated by school chairman Prem Ranjan Singh, director C B Singh and principal Radhika K.
 
 
