PUNE: Even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) completes one year in power at the   ( ), critics claim the party has no reason to celebrate as several vital civic projects, which were announced in the party's own manifesto before the polls, are yet to take shape.

 The BJPhas a clear majority with100 corporators in a general body that has a total strength of 162. Before the  , the party had released its manifesto for the city. However, many projects announced in the manifesto are still awaiting significant development.
 
 
 The party had assured concrete steps on the Bhama Askhed project, rejuvenation of city rivers, resolution to the city’s garbage problem, development of amenity spaces and provision of adequate   for women.
  
 
 While the Bhama Askhed project, which aims to bring 2.5 TMC water to the city’s eastern areas, has not progressed much despite an assurancefrom guardian minister Girish Bapat, the river rejuvenation project, announced two years ago, too remains to be implemented.
 
 Opposition leaders accuse BJP of failing to push the key projects despite enjoying a clear mandate in the PMC, the state as well as the Centre. However, senior BJP leaders in the civic body claim they have taken crucial decisions on many city-centric projects that had been pending for 10 years.
 
 Yogesh Gogawale, BJP’s city unit president, says he is satisfied with the party’s one-year performance in PMC.
 
 “We were able to push the city’s developmental plan (DP), the Metro rail project and the Shivsrushti project within a year. These projects were pending for the last 10 years. The party has taken decisive stands on these projects with the strong support from chief minister Devendra Fadnavis,” he says.
 
 Mayor Mukta Tilak and Shrinath Bhimale, the leader of House, also say many infrastructure works were put on a fast-track in the last one year. They claim the groundwork of the Mula-Mutha rejuvenation project is expectedtobegin in the next couple of months, while a deadline has been set to complete the Bhama Askhed pipeline project by December end.
 
 NCP corporator Chetan Tupe, the leader of opposition in PMC, is not convinced. He says the BJP has no righttocelebratethecompletion of one year as it has failed on many fronts. “The projects that have been speeded up by the BJP are all old projects. What has the BJP done in the last one year? Corruption is on the rise in PMC and the BJP has no concrete plan to increase the civic body’s income,” says Tupe.
 
