CHANDIGARH: Sprinkled with anecdotes discussing the history of architecture in the city, along with a brief description of the science behind planting of specific trees in certain parts of the town, the second walk of Chandigarh-based volunteer group Chandigarh Tree Lovers (CTL) was held at the Museum and Art Gallery, Sector 10 here on Sunday. 

 The walk, which is a Times of India initiative started at 7.30 am from parking opposite the museum and art gallery and concluded at 8.45 am. Conducted under the aegis of Rajnish Wattas, president, CTL, it saw a mass participation of over 60 city residents - both adults and children. Apart from the registered members of the group, numerous non-members and first-timers were also present. 
 
 The walk followed the lead of Dr Harjeet Singh, a CTL member on different types of trees planted within the periphery of the Art Museum and Gallery, located right next to the   and stretching towards the opposite direction, near the Architecture Museum. 
 
 "M S  , one of the key individuals involved in the construction of various places of importance in Chandigarh said he never thought of making a museum here having planted so many trees, along with real landscaping," said Harjeet Singh. 
 
 A host of trees and their properties were discussed beginning from  , also known as Chinese Cinnamon. It flowers twice a year, beginning from March-April and then again in September-October and bears yellow flowers. It is found on Punjab highways; Kassod (common name) also known as Senna Siamea is widely found in Sectors 19 and 27 and even along Madhya Marg followed by Mexican Silk-Cotton Tree, bearing lilac-coloured flowers, Bauhinia Purpuria, commonly known as Kichanar bears pink flowers along with its winter flowering counterpart  , bearing huge red flowers and others. 
 
 Other trees like Pilkhan, Bambic Siba or the Indian silk-cotton tree, a native of the Malabar region; Shisham, Kussum, Bottlebrush Tree, Ficus Bengalensis or Bud, Peltroforum, a tree bearing big yellow flowers on the top. Wattas while talking about Banyan trees in the campus told the group that before Chandigarh was built, about 58 villages existed in this area with all of them having their own ponds. 
 
 The presence of a huge buffer of mango trees along the Industrial Area and Chandigarh dividing road protects the city from the pollution coming from the industries, Wattas explained. The walk concluded at the gate of the establishment.
 
 
