JAIPUR: Tuberculosis patients will be linked to government’s direct benefit transfer ( ) scheme during two-month-long ‘Mera Gaon Swasthya Gaon’ launched in the state from Tuesday.

 ‘Mera Gaon Swasthya Gaon’ campaign launched by the   department will help campaign to eradicate   from the state by promoting DBT scheme in the state. 
 
 A health department official said, “We will collect Aadhaar card and upload the TB patients details on Nikshay portal to link the patient with DBT scheme.”
 
 Under DBT scheme, the TB patients will get Rs500 per month during the treatment of the patients notified in NIKSHAY under Revised National TB Control Program (RNTCP). The official said that there a lot of TB patients who are underprivileged and they are not able to take nutritious food. 
 
 For benefiting the TB patients to help getting nutritious food, government will provide Rs 500 per month. But, only those patients will get Rs 500 who have registered their Aadhaar cards and bank account details along with their mobile numbers at Nikshay portal. 
 
 Now, the health department officials under ‘Mera Gaon Swasthya Gaon’ will help the TB patients to get them registered to get benefit of DBT scheme. 
 
 The health department has strengthened its treatment facilities in the state to eradicate TB from the state. 
 
 According to the health department officials, there are more than 2,000 TB treatment centres, including 848 microscopy centres from where the patients are being provided with free treatment and test facilities.
 
 In the state, the health department officials claimed that the state has higher average than national average of detecting and treatment of TB patients.
 
 Since the multidrug resistant TB is emerging as a challenge, the health department has developed a network of 48 CB-NAAT laboratories. In these laboratories, every month on an average, 6,566 tests are conducted.
 
 Besides, in the statewide two-month campaign efforts will be made for preventing spread of seasonal diseases targeting rural population. The health department has started conducting screening of people for hypertension and diabetes along with cholera, heatstroke, diarrhoea, jaundice and influenza like illnesses.
 
 Since non-communicable diseases like diabetes and hypertension are also spreading in villages, the health department will identify such people who are most vulnerable and counsel them for taking precautions during   campaign. 
 
 
