MADURAI:   systems in the ancient civilizations have been highly successful and the regional Eco-Next media lab launched in   by the department of communication of the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) on Sunday, aims at creating awareness among the people by showcasing some of these sites through field visits.

 The lab was launched by MKU in coordination with the national council for science and technology, and technology communication, department of science and technology in Madurai.
 
 This club focuses on three main ancient sites in Madurai and Hillocks of Arittapatti in Melur is one of them. It was declared a model eco-water heritage site because of the   management system which prevailed in the ancient times here that still stands relevant for today. It has Jain rock beds, a rock cut temple, a perennial spring and many waterbodies in different sizes, which hold water throughout the year, Dr S Nagarathinam, head of the department of communications said.
 
 Nagarathinam said that there is a lot to be learnt from the ancient system which was the main focus of the club that was formed on Sunday. The next site to be visited by the club was Keezhadi in Sivaganga district, a recent excavation site, which has proved that a literate urban civilization flourished on the banks of river Vaigai, which is not a perennial river, Nagarathinam said.
 
 Sahitya Academy award winner, Su Venkatesan, said that the Keezhadi excavation redefined the history of Tamil Nadu and also India as it proved that one of the richest urban civilizations had flourished on the banks of river Vaigai. The excavation proved that the people had been concerned about the environment as drainage systems and pipelines, which were most probably used for sewage disposal, had been discovered during the excavation, added Venkatesan.
 
  As Vaigai is said to be a non-perennial river, and had water flowing only for four to five months a year, hence this civilization was well-versed in water management, he said. All other civilizations in the world have flourished on the banks of perennial rivers, said Venkatesan.
 
 Eco-activist, Paamayan, who spoke at the launch, said that the Tamil civilization was one that lived close to nature, and there was lot to learn from them. Many of the ancient buildings like the Taj Mahal and the big temple in Thanjavur had been constructed using materials other than sand and cement, emulating them could help protect rivers from sand mining. He said that author, Sandra Postel in her book ‘The Last Oasis’, has stated that the third World War can be avoided if water management systems of southern India were studied and implemented. “But, we are continuing to destroy these waterbodies and their systems,” he added.
 
 Dr Pampos Kumar, director,  , vice chancellor of Madurai Kamaraj University, Dr P P Chelladurai and registrar of MKU, Dr V Chinnaiah were among the others who spoke at the launch.
 
 
