MADURAI:   and Ramanathapuram districts in southern   have found a place among 100 aspirational districts of the Union government, a scheme which is part of the Prime Minister’s vision of New India by 2022. The Centre has taken up the special scheme to rapidly improve specific development parameters of districts lagging behind in them.

 As per the plan, senior government officials in the rank of additional secretary/joint secretary would be designated as officers in-charge coordinating efforts of the Centre and state in addressing the specific developmental needs of these districts.
 
 Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar along with   district were part of the   district till 1985 when the state trifurcated it. These two districts have similar characteristics and demographics. Farming here is mostly rain-fed — except for a few pockets — with a lot of historically significant temples and places which contributed immensely in the freedom struggle of the country. For instance, Marudhu brothers were the first to issue proclamation of independence against British rule as early as 1801.
 
 Virudhunagar district has a unique character of diversity which other districts of Tamil Nadu cannot boast of. While Sivakasi is an industrial town, Virudhunagar is a market that transacts provisions for the entire state while   and Srivilliputhur are blessed with wildlife and lush green farm lands. However there is a stretch in the district which will give a feel of the proverbial Indian villages of 1975. Void of agriculture or industrial activities,   to Thiruchuzhi and Narikudi blocks struggle to develop and are notorious for caste conflicts. “To an extent, Vembakottai taluk is also underdeveloped. We need major irrigation projects to divert water from Western Ghats in Rajapalayam and Srivilliputhur towards   and Narikudi”, said M Sivagurunathan, a railway staffer from Virudhunagar.
 
 The looks of Kamudhi, Kadaladi and Mudukulathur blocks are no different. In this arid stretch of Ramanathapuram district, water is a major factor as the region is parched even for drinking water. River Vaigai, once lifeline of the district, hardly flows into Ramanathapuram at present due to drought and erratic rainfall. In spite of having pristine beaches that can challenge the most beautiful ones in the world, Kadaladi limps for development. In spite of a long coastline, there are not many modern fishing harbours or sea food processing industries in the district.
 
 
