SURAT: The general board of   (SMC) on Wednesday decided to give two options to   (SEST) to either acquire land of the Experimental School at the rate decided by the   of state government or the civic body will take possession of the land given on 60-year lease,  

 
 
 In a stormy session on Wednesday, opposition   moved a motion to take possession of the land first and then ask the trust to buy it back or rent it on new rates or buy it on present jantri rate.
 
 However, with   enjoying majority in the 116-member house, it rejected the motion by Congress and original proposal giving two options to the Sarvajanik Education Society Trust was accepted.
 
 “Now, it is up to the Land Disposal Committee to decide on the rate at which the trust would have to pay. If the trust does not buy at that rate, the municipal commissioner has been authorized to acquire the Experimental School land (16,000 sq metre),” said Rajesh Desai, chairman of the SMC standing committee, who moved the proposal.
 
 During the zero hour, Congress also raised the issue of Pal-Umra bridge over Tapi river. They alleged that it is at the behest of few councillors and MLA that handful of residents have stalled the project which will benefit hundreds of residents. 
 
 Papan Togadia, leader of the opposition in SMC, alleged, “When 5,000 huts were demolished in Udhna, no such issues arose. Then why is Rs 90-crore bridge that was supposed to be completed by 2017 not completed yet. Who is being protected?”
 
 In reply, Rajesh Desai of BJP said, “We will continue to talk till the last minute with the affected people as per the law. Those agreeing to the proposed compensation will be allotted land in Gamtal before taking over land from all 23 affected families.”
 
 This new proposal will be decided in Thursday’s standing committee meeting.
 
 During the meeting, Congress councillor Bhupendra Solanki was suspended for using foul language but was not supported by other Congress councillors.
 
 This was the last meeting as office bearers in presence of current mayor, deputy mayor, standing committee chairman, leader of the ruling and opposition parties and chairmen of other committee. The new office bearers will be selected by the parties in June. 
 
 
