  : In this age of digitisation when packaged water consumption is rising like never before, findings of a study by a team of scientists from the  , has come as a jolt for city residents. 

 The study underscores that packaged water in plastic bottles contain tiny plastic pieces and is more hazardous for health than what you get from tap. Shocked, many still feel there is a need to conduct more tests rather than acting in a knee-jerk manner to ascertain packaged water's quality. And once results of the study are verified, the government should step in to discourage its use or ban it altogether.
 
 Figures from one of the largest suppliers of packaged water in the city will be enough to get a sense of its use in households, offices, parties and marriages.
 
 The supplier told TOI anywhere between 5,000 to 10,000 water cans of 20 litre were sold in the city everyday besides 2,000 small bottles of two litre, one litre and the like. 
 
 The supplier's figure goes against general impression among many of the people that TOI talked to. They say when one is travelling or is not at home or office, there is hardly a choice other than to use packaged water. In fact, people are using packaged water in household and offices more than during occasional travels outside or when they commute in the city. "Had it been so, sale of small bottles would have been more than water canes, which has registered a steep hike over past few years," said Santosh. 
 
 When asked whether he knew about result of the study conducted by   and whether it would have any impact on sale of packaged water, he replied in negative, saying "We sell water of reputed companies, which follow all norms laid down for production of packaged water. What you say may hold true for local brands," he said, little realising that all brands he talked of were also tested during the study. 
 
 A senior officer of  , which also runs a number of hotels and restaurants across the state, on condition anonymity, said "We shall stop keeping water bottles, if there is an order to that effect from the state government. But on our own, we couldn't refuse water bottles to our customers, who demand it." 
 
 
