
Tamal Dutta, a resident of Selimpur in Dhakuria, had come to the area, where several eateries remain open till late in the night, for a treat offered by a friend who had just bought a new car, his father Tapan Dutta told TOI on Sunday. 
 
 Police said Abhijit Ghosh, the owner and the usual driver of the ambulance, had handed over the keys to his relative and helper to park it on one side, and had just disembarked to visit a roadside shop, when the accident happened. "The teenager lost control of the car and possibly pressed the accelerator while trying to apply the brakes when he saw Tamal crossing the road. On impact, he was flung off the road and fell at a distance. His head first hit a roadside kerb and then the concrete surface," said an officer of Lake police station.
 
 The teenager driving the ambulance was shaking in fear when locals caught him and brought him out. Police detained him and took Tamal, bleeding profusely, to hospital.
 
 For the Duttas, the ordeal had just begun. According to Tripti, Tamal's mother, they received a call little before midnight and were informed about the accident and that their son was being taken to MR Bangur Hospital in Tollygunge. "We rushed to the hospital but the doctors said my son needed to be put into ventilation immediately, and they had none. So, they transferred him to SSKM," she said. At SSKM, Tamal was allegedly made to lie on the floor at the emergency ward, unattended. "A doctor said the ventilation unit was not available at that moment, and that we would need to wait. An attendant suggested we take him to some private hospital immediately, as his condition was deteriorating. So we took him out after signing a risk bond, but by that time two hours had passed," said Tapan.
 
 It was en route to the hospital on the Bypass that he succumbed to his injuries, and was declared dead on arrival. TOI tried to contact officials at SSKM and MR Bangur, but no one was available to issue an official statement. 
 
 A chartered accountant with a private firm since 2012, Tamal was the sole earning member of the family. 
 
 Abhijit was sent to judicial custody, and the boy was sent to a safe custody home, after being produced in a city court.
 
 
