INDORE: The feat of surviving is directly related to the capacity of the survivor. This Claire Cameron saying passes muster for the 13 breast cancer   and patient, who demonstrated positivity and strength by walking the ramp on Sunday.

 With an aim to spread a message of positivity, strength, and meaning of true beauty, Ansh Foundation conducted a fashion show for breast   survivors in association with Sangini Cancer Care Society.
 
 Ansh Foundation founder Mohini Singh, who lost her 23-year-old son Ansh last year due to a road accident, said, “It’s my son’s birthday today. I too have two   survivors at my home and I realised these women feel low and under-confident after losing their mane, eye brows and eyelashes. To boost their confidence we decided to conduct the fashion show.”
 
 These women were accompanied by a partner during the  . After the walk they also faced a question-answer round wherein they were asked some situational questions.
 
 On the basis of confidence, walk, and question-answer round, breast cancer patient Anita Hemnani won the competition and survivors Seema Natu and Vijay Kalya became first and second runners up respectively.
 
 “It’s all because of my husband, daughters, her friends and well-wisher’s support and love that I could stay positive and strong throughout my treatment. Also, because of their motivation, I stopped using wig two months ago,” said Anita Hemnani, who got her last chemotherapy done one week back and will be undergoing radiation treatment starting from next week. The 47-year-old who does yoga and meditation regularly was overwhelmed on winning the competition. Survivor, Nita Soni, who walked the ramp for the first time was excited about it. “I was strong enough to endure and so are all these women here who not only survived but defeated the disease,” she added.
 
 Sangini coordinator Anuradha Singh said, “We wanted to spread a message to the society that these women are beautiful just the way they are and they are strong enough to survive the most difficult situation.
 
 
