GURUGRAM: Two persons, including a  , died and another was severely charred in a fire that broke out in a double-storey house in the middle of the market on the old Delhi-Alwar Road in   on Thursday. A   who was working in the house was burnt alive while the house owner’s wife died after the roof of a room fell on her. The woman’s   was burnt badly while he was trying to save her.

 Suman Madan (44) was in the house while her husband Ravi Madan who owns a paint shop had gone to the market, her daughters had left for work and her son for school, when the fire broke out. Carpenter Nain Singh of Indri village near Sohna was working on the house doors under her supervision. Both were killed in the fire while Ravi’s brother Sanjay was hit by an exploding can of paint as he was rushing to save Suman. He was rescued and rushed to a hospital in GURUGRAM from where he was referred to   hospital. According to doctors, his condition is still critical. 
 
 The fire spread quickly as the house had a godown containing paint buckets. The cause behind the fire has not been ascertained. However, sources said some welding work was being carried out in the house and sparks might have reached the paint buckets, starting the fire which was further aggravated when the gas cylinders exploded.
 
 It took nearly three hours for the fire brigade to douse the fire and retrieve the bodies from under the debris. A fire tender from Sohna was the first to reach the scene but the low pressure in its water pipe hindered the efforts of the firemen. Later, three fire engines from GURUGRAM, Nuh and Taouru were brought in to bring the situation under control. 
 
 The house was completely damaged and documents, jewellery and cash inside the house were charred in the fire.
 
 The fire broke out around 2pm. Suman called her husband and the fire officials who reached the scene but could not bring the fire under control with the defective fire tender. Cops also reached the spot and authorities cut the power supply to the area for hours. Hundreds of locals gathered and joined efforts to douse the fire.
 
 “Sunita and the carpenter rushed upstairs to seek refuge but as there were paint boxes in the house, the fire went out of control. The fire department was informed on time but the house collapsed before they could do anything. JCB earth-movers were used to remove the debris and retrieve the bodies,” said an eyewitness.
 
 The locals blamed the firemen of negligence. They said if the fire tender had been working properly, the fire could have been doused in time and if the firemen had judged the danger of the situation, they could have sought help earlier. 
 
 Some of them appealed for new fire engines and others sought the suspension of the firemen after SDM Satish Yadav reached the spot. He assured them of action, adding that a new fire tender would be brought from GURUGRAM. 
 
 “The firemen arrived within 15 minutes but the fire tender was not working properly and they also had to refill it which took nearly 45 minutes. Suman was on the phone with them. They asked her to rush to the back of the house, saying they would break the walls. But it was too late by the time the other fire tenders arrived,” said a friend of the the family.
 
 “We have filed a report and handed over the bodies to the family after postmortem,” said inspector  , SHO, Sohna city police station.
 
 
