NAGPUR: Yet another irregularity at Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) health department, which is already under scanner for various reasons, has come to fore.

 
 The department has allegedly procured   worth Rs20.85 lakh for cremations without any administrative approval and tendering process in the last 20 months.
 
 The health department has submitted a proposal with the standing committee seeking its approval for tendering process to appoint private agencies for supply of cow dung cakes for all crematoriums for the next two years. The committee will take a decision on the proposal during a meeting on June 5.
 
 In its proposal, the department has admitted that cow dung cakes were procured without any administrative approval for 20 months. Also, the department has mentioned that there was a difference between procurement and consumption of cow dung cakes at the crematoriums.
 
 As per the proposal, the department had appointed Awasti Traders for supply of cow dung cakes for crematoriums in 2015-16 and 2016-17. The work period came to an end on September 29, 2016. But the department continued purchasing cow dung cakes from the agency.
 
 Now, the agency has raised bills of Rs19.81 lakh for cow dung cakes supplied between October 2016 and March 30, 2018. The department has estimated the cost of supply till date at Rs20.85 lakh. Accordingly, it has sought administrative approval of the standing committee for paying the bills.
 
 The department has also proposed to change the terms and conditions of the contract. It has proposed to appoint several agencies that are ready to supply cow dung cakes at the lowest rate in the tendering process. The agencies will be responsible for facilitating weighing machines, appointment of staff to weigh, distribute 10kg cow dung cakes for every cremation and laying of cow dung cakes for cremations.
 
 Earlier, the agency was supposed to only supply cow dung cakes and the remaining works were done by the NMC staff.
 
 A health department official told TOI that one clerk has been held responsible for the irregularity and slapped with a show-cause notice. “NMC did not incur any loss as the rate for cow dung cakes would have been high if it had gone for the tendering process in 2016,” he said.
 
 The department has been in the centre of controversy for irregularities in supply of firewood for crematoriums, collection and transportation of garbage, appointment of daily wage sanitary workers/aiwajdars, bogus salary to aiwajdars etc.
 
 
