ARA: Once upon a time, they beckoned the best and the brightest students of the erstwhile Shahabad district, now quadfurcated into Bhojpur, Rohtas, Kaimur and Buxar districts. Today, these three   — known as Town School, Zila School and Model School — are a pathetic picture of neglect.

 Take, for instance, the Town School, now upgraded as ‘Town +2 High School’, which is the alma mater of the likes of former deputy PM late Jagjivan Ram, former railway minister late Ram Subhag Singh and eminent novelist late Acharya Shivpujan Sahay.
 
 According to sources, the school, established in 1882, has not received any funds from any quarter to to renovate its buildings since 1947. 
 
 As the archaic structure started falling apart, the school management committee — consisting of the local MLA, headmaster, a teacher, two educationists, one SC woman and a state officer — decided to repair the buildings with the school’s development fund.
 
 “Our school fees included Rs 80 per student per annum for development fund... We had Rs 20 lakh in this head, which we used in 2016-17 for repairs to save the structure from collapsing,” principal Ram Newaj Singh said on Wednesday, adding they did not have any money now though they needed at least Rs 20-25 lakh for plastering and painting the buildings.
 
 Jagjivan Ram did Class VI to X from this school, but ever since the state government took over it while introducing +2 level education in schools in 2009, it imparts education only from classes IX to XII.
 
 Situated on one acre and two-and-a-half kattha of land in the heart of Ara town, the school has a capacity to seat up to 2,500 students, the sources said and added there were, however, not more than 1,500 students on its rolls as of now. “Problem is, many of our classrooms are not fit to be used,” principal Singh said.
 
 According to Singh, even nine posts of teachers are vacant. There’s no commerce teacher due to which commerce teaching is not imparted.
 
 The school’s science lab is a misnomer in that it has outdated apparata. The number of +2 girl students fell from 49 in last session to 19 in the current session apparently because there’s no proper toilet for them. Once, the teachers contributed and pooled Rs 73,000 to cover the roofs that leaked in the rains.
 
 More or less similar is the story of Model Institute +2 High School and Plus-2 Zila School. “We have 20 classrooms, most of which are in a shambles,” Model school principal Braj Kumar Yadav said and added their social science teacher Binesh Kumar recently had a narrow escape when a huge wooden panel of the ceiling fell in the staff room.
 
 Yadav has put a piece of tin underneath the ceiling of the principal’s room as mixture of lime and soil used to fall on him. “Even the new building being built for +2 classes by the government was left incomplete midway,” he said.
 
 Zila School’s officiating principal Avinash Bhaskar said there were 100-odd students in classes IX and X and 240 students in +2 classes. While nine teachers are there for classes IX and X, there are only seven arts teachers for +2 classes,” he said and added the school, therefore, was not imparting science and commerce education.
 
 Also, according to Bhaskar, ten of the 31 classrooms are in dilapidated condition. 
 
 
