A bustling studio with film and television shootings all over the premises…

 In one such extravagant set, stands Sudheer Anand, popularly known as Sudigaali Sudheer in his brand new avatar of a host shooting for his ongoing game show Jackpot 2. The popular comedian, who shot to fame with comedy show  , has taken the big leap with the second season of Jackpot.
 
 “When I was approached for the show, I was little apprehensive but I’ve never said no to an opportunity that allowed to explore and re-invent myself,” Sudheer told TimesofIndia.com in an exclusive chat. 
 
 He adds, “I know carrying an entire show on your shoulders and still engage and entertain audience is a daunting task. It is entirely different from whatever I’ve done so far but there lies the real challenge. And I love challenges”.
 
 Talking about the first moments as a host, Sudheer said: “I still remember the first day of shoot. I was totally blank and anxious about my performance. Thankfully, my team extended the support I needed.”
 
 Sudheer considers his colleagues Pradeep Machiraju, Ravi and Ohmkar his inspiration. “The way Ohmkar garu engrosses the audience throughout the show always amazes me. That is something I try to imbibe from him. And I love the energy Ravi brings onto the sets. Wonder what he eats,” exclaims Sudheer.
 
 On the other hand, it is Pradeep Machiraju’s spontaneity that Sudheer is in awe with. “What and what not to talk on-screen is something I learnt from Pradeep,” discloses Sudheer.
 
 Sudheer feels ‘looks’ and ‘body language’ are his biggest setbacks which he pledges to work on and improve down the lane. “At the end of the day, only two things matter to me - my director’s satisfaction and entertaining audience,” asserts Sudheer.
 
 From being nobody participating in the 2004 TV show Star Hunt to hosting a Television show today, the 10-year journey wasn’t a cake walk for the actor.
 
 “After my unsuccessful stint in Star Hunt show, I was depressed. I ran into people who demanded money for an opportunity. I gave up, went back to my home town. But my mother’s undeterred confidence in me brought me back alive. I kept doing other jobs like magic shows, event management until I got my first break in February, 2013 with Jabardast,” reveals Sudheer.
 
 He adds, “My mother was the one who always saw big dreams for me. She saw some talent in me and encouraged me in art right from childhood. Glad my father was also equally encouraging. Besides, my brother is my biggest critic. My buddies Ram Prasad, and Srinu (who also renowned comedians) help me out with work. They mean the world to me.”
 
 Growing up watching senior anchors like Suma, Jhansi, Udaya Bhanu et al, Sudheer never saw this coming actually. He further added, “Sitting on the other side of the screen, little did I know what these artistes and technicians went through to keep up their good work and entertain the audience until I’m here in the industry. They all deserve a bow.”
 
 On the very note, Sudheer, perhaps for the first time, revealed about the minor health issue that he has been battling from a while now. “I will keep giving my best to entertain people, no matter what” promised Sudheer.
 
 Responding on the link up rumors with his co-star  , Sudheer said they are “good colleagues”.
 
 “In these 5 years of knowing Rashmi, our conversations beyond work can be counted. You can check my call records if you want. Unfortunately, none believes this. I understand rumors are not uncommon. But I can’t admit to something that isn’t there in the first place,” concedes Sudheer.
 
 He adds, “I wonder how nastier it gets sometimes. Once there were reports on YouTube that my grandmother was ill. And someone else wrote that my father met with an accident. I started receiving calls from relatives especially my babai (father’s younger brother) questioning why we did not inform them.” 
 
 Recalling this incident, Sudheer pleaded on social media not to carry such noxious stories for content sake.
 
 “It affects our families. If you can’t stand a rumor or anything negative against your family, so do we. So please report responsibly,” urged Sudheer.
 
 On the flipside, he remembers seeing a “typical Telugu news YouTube channel” apparently with a click bait title and details about “Sudheer’s opulent residence and lifestyle” and calls it the weirdest rumor he ever had. “I wish I had all that the video claims I possess,” chuckles Sudheer.
 
 He is even bothered about his favorite star   being dragged into various  . Sudheer further added that “blaming the entire industry for mistakes done by few is completely unfair,” opines Sudheer.
 
 On a concluding note, Sudheer says he is “quite happy” in the space he is right now both professionally and personally. While entertaining people as a versatile actor is his ultimate goal, on a personal front, he wants to get married only after his personal goals (not elaborated though) are accomplished.
 
 Sudheer currently has four television projects in his kitty. He also regrets missing a plum project like Katamarayudu, a Trivikram’s film, due to his commitments in Television.
 
 Little did we know that the tattoo imprint “S.S” on Sudheer’s left hand denotes his “first crush” until we bid adieus! “Well I cover it up as  ,” says Sudheer Anand (winks).
 
