GURUGRAM: Already under fire for allegedly botching up the probe into the murder of a Class II student of a private school in September 8 last year, Gurugram   officials who carried out the investigation are bracing for more trouble as the CBI gears up to file the supplementary chargesheet in the case.

  
 The probe agency has summoned “for discussion or questioning” three Gurugram cops to its headquarters in Delhi on Saturday. These three cops, including then investigating officer, were part of the special investigation team (SIT) that had initially probed the seven-year-old boy’s murder and arrested school bus conductor Ashok Kumar for the crime.
 
 Later, a Class XI student was apprehended by the CBI for his alleged role in the murder, and Kumar was acquitted by the court of all charges. 
 
 “The CBI is investigating the case, registered as FIR number 250 on September 8 last year at   police station, which was re-registered as a CBI case on 22.09.2017. Three officials — sub inspector Shamsher Singh, ASI Subhash of Bhondsi police station and Jyoti, scientific assistant, office of Gurugram police commissioner — are directed to appear at 11am on Saturday in CBI office, Delhi,” the agency said in a recent letter to DCP (south).
 
 The CBI, according to sources, will file the supplementary chargesheet next month. It is expected to elaborate on the alleged botched-up investigation of Gurugram cops. The investigation agency may also name the cops as accused if their involvement is found in the alleged lapses, sources said, adding it may also explain the alleged role of the school administration in the alleged botch-up.
 
 Sources said former SHO of Bhondsi police station inspector Narender Singh Khatana, sub inspector Shamsher Singh, constable Bheem Singh, ACP (Sohna) Barem Singh and a few officers of crime units are among those who have been under the CBI scanner.However, the CBI so far has not recommended any action against the cops who were part of the initial investigation. “The three cops have been called to probe the line of initial investigation that had led to arrest of the bus conductor as the key accused,” said a senior official of CBI.
 
 Ashok Bakshi, DCP (south) and head of SIT in the murder case, said, “CBI has been called many cops in the case earlier also. Now again it has asked three cops to join the investigation.”
 
 
 
