INDORE: Sporting a   nearly cost a groom his marriage in   district of   after the bride’s family objected to his stubble and refused to wed off the girl till he shaves it off.

 The groom, who resisted to the demand allegedly made at the behest of the bride for over 12 hours, before he conceded following the intervention of police. He shaved off the beard and the marriage was solemnised in Anjati village on Tuesday.
 
 The hilarious sequence of incidents though jostled the minds and funny bones of the guests, but the bride’s family was dead serious against marrying off the girl to a bearded man.
 
 On March 12, Mangal Chouhan was in for a surprise, when he reached his would-be wife’s house decked up in a grey three-piece suit on a horse. Bride Rupali’s father, Radheshyam Jadhav, stopped the procession and announced, “Everything is in order, but the beard.   it off and then we will go ahead with the marriage.”
 
 Awestruck, Chouhan resisted. His relatives also put their foot down. “How can we allow the bride’s family to bully us?” they announced.
 
 As the matter escalated, Moghat Road police were on the scene immediately to prevent any flare up. Constable Dharmendra Mandloi, who mediated between the families, told TOI, “Both the families were not agreeing to budge on the beard. After holding long discussions, the groom finally agreed to shave his beard, but announced that he will keep a moustache.”
 
 “It was a minor hiccup. My father-in-law wanted me to shave my beard. But now everything is fine.   is also okay with this,” Chouhan told TOI over phone from his native village Junapani.
 
 He had left with the bride on Wednesday afternoon after the marriage was solemnised at the same venue.
 
 “I had to pay Rs 4000 extra to the tent owners to leave the arrangements as it was, overnight,” Jadhav said, claiming he had warned Chouhan of the beard on several occasion before the marriage.
 
 “My friends were telling me: how can you get your beautiful daughter married to a man who looked mad due to the beard,” he said, claiming that he did not buckle under the pressure of the groom’s family and stood his ground.
 
 Constable Mandloi said the bride’s family had got the couple some gifts. The groom left them behind while taking his bride home, fearing dowry charges after the matter got so much publicity in and around the village.
 
 
