JALANDHAR: The illegal immigration agent, who had cheated Iraq massacre victim   twice, has agreed to return Rs 2 lakh to his family.

 The agent had initially promised to send Mainka, who hailed from Jalandhar’s   village, to Afghanistan and had taken a payment of Rs 2.5 lakh. But Mainka was left stranded in Dubai and the agent took Rs 15,000 to get him back.
 
 After he returned to India, Mainka tried to get the agent to return his money, but failed to do so. Mainka agreed to a compromise and the agent told him that he would be sent to Kuwait. He was made to shell out another Rs 35,000. However, he was sent to Iraq where he was killed.
 
 The agent, who had got a clean chit from the   police five years ago after Mainka had accused him of fraud, returned Rs 50,000 to the victim’s family as the first instalment on Wednesday evening.
 
 The   police said Mainka’s family and the agent had reached a compromise on Wednesday. The remaining Rs 1.5 lakh will be paid to the family on May 11.
 
 In 2013, the agent had sued Mainka for defamation after he got a clean chit from the police and claimed that he did not even know Surjit.
 
 His family on Tuesday alleged that Mainka was a victim of the fraud perpetuated by the agent named in his complaint.
 
 “We had summoned the fellow and he claimed that he was only acquainted with travel agent named Rajan and was not involved in sending Mainka to any place. However, he agreed to pay Rs 2 lakh to his family and the latter also agreed to settle for this,” said Adampur DSP Gurwinder Singh. Jalandhar (Rural) SSP Gurpreet Bhullar had marked a fresh complaint in the case to Bhullar on Tuesday.
 
 In his January 2013 complaint, Mainka had alleged that he was cheated of Rs 2.65 lakh by the agent.
 
 The compromise has discredited the probe by the antihuman trafficking cell of the Jalandhar Rural police, which had claimed that there was no evidence that the man accused by Mainka had taken any money from him.
 
 The inquiry report prepared on February 18, 2013, a copy of which is available with TOI, had concluded it could not be proved that money was paid to the agent named in the complaint. With this clean chit, the agent had sued Mainka for defamation.
 
 Mainka’s wife   was forced to sell his share of the ancestral house, but could not completely repay the loan the family had taken to send him abroad for work.
 
 “My brother Nand Lal from Talwan village was already working there in Iraq and he arranged visa for my elder son   also,” said Sumitra of Allewali village. “To us, it is clear that his visa was for Iraq till 2013. He had even called us to inform that the a major project was about to start and he would get his younger brother Kuldeep also there,” she said. Both Nand Lal and Sandeep were among the victims.
 
