LUDHIANA: AAP’s alliance partner   (LIP) on Friday announced to leave the coalition following AAP supermo   apologizing to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader   for linking him to illicit drug trade in Punjab. LIP took the decision after meeting AAP legislators in Chandigarh. AAP got 20 MLAs and LIP 2 in the 2017 assembly elections they had contested together on all 117 seats.

 “We have snapped ties with AAP. We will, however, continue to support 15 MLAs who stand for Punjab, including leader of opposition Sukhpal Khaira, Kanwar Sandhu and others. By apologizing, Kejriwal has defrauded Punjabis. Before elections, he used to say that we will drag Majithia to jail and that he is biggest trader of drugs,” said LIP leader Simarjeet Singh Bains.
 
 “Badal and Majithia were in power, that time he didn’t feel scared, now that they are not even in power, how the Delhi CM is scared? We believe there is a conspiracy behind this apology by Kejriwal and that will unfold soon before people,” the Atam Nagar MLA said.
 
 The LIP leaders said that there are 14 to 15 AAP MLAs who stand for Punjab and their party would support them in fight against drugs and corruption though it would not have any tie up with AAP. He added that cadres and volunteers were heartbroken and upset with Kejriwal and so were Punjabis who gave him funds.
 
 Even though the anti-drug STF has named Majithia in its report, Punjab CM Amarinder Singh was not acting as per the wishes of 42-43 MLAs who want him to be sent to jail, he said, adding that Kejriwal's apology came after Amarinder Singh gave a clean chit to Majithia.
 
 He added that even cabinet minister   and his wife had said that the CM should send Majithia to jail. “They are helpless as the chief minister is not ready to do it. LIP leader said that they also want that Majithia and his accomplices should face action and proper inquiry should be conducted in the matter,” Bains added.
 
 In the meanwhile, many Ludhiana-based AAP leaders are finding it untenable to defend the apology by Kejriwal. They also consider the separation of LIP from AAP as big jolt to the party in Ludhiana and surrounding areas as the former has good vote base here.
 
 
