At least four people have been lynched by irate mobs in the past one week in   and Karnataka on suspicion of being “child-lifters and kidnappers” after fake videos and wild rumours were floated on social media claiming interstate gangs were on the prowl for kids.

 Similar vigilante action has already claimed the lives of at least five people in the past one month In  .
 
 Social media rumours in Telangana and   have triggered widespread mob frenzy. Three people were lynched in the past four days and four others were brutally assaulted on Thursday, the attacks spurred by panic WhatsApp messages about child-lifting gangs that “smash skulls to devour brains”. The three cases of lynching were reported from Vikarabad, Nizamabad and Yadadri districts.
 
 With fear running deep in the rural heartlands of the two Telugu states, “strangers” are becoming sitting ducks. At least 10 people were tied to trees and electricity poles and severely thrashed in the past 10 days and some of the victims are critical.
 
 On Thursday, a woman was critically injured after being beaten by mobs at Repalle in Guntur district. A mentally unsound man was tied to a tree at Sarapaka in   district and had to be rescued by police. A deaf-mute man was tied to a pole and thrashed in Bhodan town of Nizamabad district. A stranger speaking Hindi was attacked in Armoor mandal.
 
 Even cities like Hyderabad,   and Visakhapatnam are not immune to the rumours. On Wednesday night, a mentally ill beggar was thrashed by a councillor in Hyderabad and rumours kept many in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam awake through the night.
 
 In Karnataka, a fake WhatsApp video which has peddled fear by suggesting that a gang from outside the state was stealing children claimed its first casualty on Wednesday when a 26-year-old man was beaten to death by a mob which mistook him for a child-lifter. Police identified the deceased as Kaluram, who was from  , and believe he is a paan-seller. Fourteen people, including two minors and four women, were arrested in connection with the incident.
 
 On May 16, police in Raichur received information that a mob was beating up a woman on suspicion that she belonged to a gang of child thieves. It was later found that the victim was mentally challenged. Six men have been arrested.
 
 In Tamil Nadu on May 8, a group of people at Athimur in Tiruvannamalai district, around 170km southwest of Chennai, beat a 65-year-old woman to death on the assumption that she was trying to steal a child. Her four relatives, who were also assaulted, suffered serious injuries. They were on their way to visit their family temple, police said. The cops picked up 33 men and 10 women for the assault.
 
 Barely two days later, a mob beat to death a man with psychiatric problems and strung up the body from a bridge near Pulicat Lake, about 50km north of Chennai. Rumours had spread that groups of people from “northern states” had been looking to steal children from the area. Some villagers came upon a man wandering around in a “suspicious manner”, a police officer said, adding “because the man would not answer their questions, they beat him up severely… The villagers gouged out one of his eyes, attacked his face and head and kicked him and stamped on him till he was dead.”
 
 Three other people, including a teenager, were killed in April this year.
 
 
