JAIPUR: Nearly three months after nine-year-old   Bansal was allegedly abducted and murdered by one of his neighbours for ransom in  , the police said that the DNA samples collected from the jungles have matched those of his parents. The cops, however, are still trying to recover his body.

 Speaking to TOI, additional superintendent of police (ASP) Rajesh Kumar   said that the accused   had admitted to killing Naitik in the jungles of Langra. Following which blood-stained pair of trousers and other samples were recovered from the spot. These samples were sent for DNA examination. “The samples matched with Naitik’s parents and we can conclusively say that the trousers belong to the missing boy,” he added.
 
 Several police teams, including commando units of Rajasthan police had launched an extensive combing operation in the jungle to find Naitik’s body, but in vain.Yadav said that   was sent to   for Narco analysis test. “We expect that report will reveal exactly how Koli killed Naitik and where he disposed of his body,” he added. Naitik’s disappearance has been shrouded in mystery and the police’s theory that he was murdered was rejected by parents who asked cops to show them their son’s body.
 
 The boy had gone missing from his Hindaun Gate located house on February 25. Four days later police arrested Koli and accused him of murdering Naitik with the help of his minor son.
 
 “Koli had abducted Naitik and took him to the jungle where he killed him with the help of his son. He had abducted the boy to demand extortion, but he got worried due to mounting police pressure and killed Naitik. We have CCTV footage in which Koli is seen taking the victim to the jungle on his bike,” Yadav said, adding that Koli took the police to crime spot where Naitik’s trousers and blood spots were found.
 
 “Our investigation is not over. We are still trying to find his body, we had used drones and commandos but got no clue. A Narco test was conducted with the sole aim to determine where the accused had dumped his body,” an official said.
 
 
