AHMEDABAD: St Xavier’s School,   Hall’s minority education institute status has come under scanner with education department officials issuing a show-cause notice to the school asking them to explain why the school should be accorded minority status.

 The commissioner of schools on Thursday held a hearing and summoned representatives of the   to explain why the school’s minority status should not be cancelled.
 
 On April 2, the commissioner of schools issued a show-cause notice to the school principal, Father Charles SJ, intimating him that the DEO office had perused the trust deed of the school’s trust and found that it does not mention “objective to promote or uplift linguistic and religious minority community”. The notice further stated, “According to the guideline of the National Commission for Minority Education, the condition No 3 of October 7, 2006 resolution of the education department is not fulfilled.” 
 
 The principal was given three days to explain why the school should not lose its minority institution status.
 
 On April 9, the Ahmedabad District Education Officer (DEO) issued notice to the Ahmedabad Jesuit School Society and summoned its trustee on Thursday to explain the school’s stand on the issue.
 
 The proceedings against the school have been initiated by authorities upon directions issued by Gujarat high court for the same. The HC intervened in this issue after one Biju Vadakan had approached the court demanding cancellation of the institution’s minority status by citing alleged absence of objective in its trust deed. Vadakan took on the institute after his service as a teacher in St Xavier’s School was terminated a few years ago.
 
 The commissioner of schools, J D Desai, confirmed that the hearing took place on instructions issued by the HC with regard to St Xavier’s School’s minority institution status.
 
  said, “An inquiry was conducted earlier into the minority institution status of the school and we had submitted our report to the authority.”
 
 On Thursday, the trust sent its lawyer for the hearing before the commissioner, but the authority insisted that a representative associated with the trust should remain present and the hearing will not involve the lawyer. 
 
 After this, the trust’s representatives appeared before the authority and sought time for submission on the ground that they had received the notices very late and hence did not have enough time to prepare their case. This led to adjournment of the proceeding till March 21, officials said.
 
 The school principal could not be reached for his comment on the issue.
 
 
