KOLKATA: Four friends sat down to hang out one evening in 2016, a couple of months before Durga Puja. The idea was to discuss a plan that one of them had, to bounce it off among the other three. Fortunately, they were very excited at the idea... and thus started their project to feed Kolkata.

 It started as one “ATM” to “ladle” out free   to the hungry. In a period of just nine months, it’s gone up to three ATMS. And, if things go according to plan, there’ll be two more before Puja this year.
 
 Together, the three Food ATMs, as the project is being lovingly called, feed at least 2,000 people each day. The first one came up on the EM Bypass at Uttarpanchanna Gram, the second opposite   on CIT Road, and the third one inside Ramleela Maidan off Moulali. The fourth is supposed to come up at Bhowanipore, near Chakraberia, and then a fifth near the 8B bus stand at Jadavpur.
 
 Restaurateur Asif Ahmed and his three entrepreneur friends Prakash Nahata, Rahul Agarwal and Nirmal Bajaj decided to start their endeavour as a sort of experiment by connecting with clubs that organise Puja. With the first letters of their names they formed Pran, a group to fight for a hunger-free Kolkata. Almost every club cooks and feeds bhog on all four days of Puja. “We requested them to cook some extra bhog, so that we could distribute it among pavement-dwellers,” Ahmed says. “We were able to convince 15 clubs, and they gave us immense quantities of food, which we were able to distribute among hungry pavement-dwellers. The gratitude and satisfaction we saw on those poor faces was the incentive that sowed the seeds of the   project.”
 
 Ahmed first turned his attention towards the food that his restaurant was left with at the end of each day. At his Uttar Panchannagram outlet, he got his workers to cool, pack and refrigerate the food, so that it could be distributed. His friends got a real estate company to donate a specially designed refrigerator, kept outside his restaurant, packed with food. Twice a day, the food was distributed to the needy. “We started on August 15, 2017 to emphasize the freedom factor. What is the value of freedom unless we are able to give freedom from hunger to everyone in the city?” Ahmed says.
 
 Bengali New Year’s Day was celebrated on April 15 a little differently at the Ramleela Maidan. Members of the Entally Yuvak Brinda joined hands with Pran to start the city’s third food ATM. A special room was built beside the park, where the refrigerator is kept stocked with food, water and cold drinks, to be distributed among the homeless twice each day. At least 10 restaurants in the vicinity have been sending their packed excess food to the food ATM. “We just had to visit the restaurant owners and tell them about our intent, and they readily agreed. If the city restaurants stop wasting their leftover food and refrigerate it, we will be able to eradicate hunger completely,” says Jami Siddique, the club’s secretary.
 
 Most restaurants have to throw away the food even after feeding their staff, as they do not have extra refrigeration facilities and also because they cannot serve it to customers the next day. They just needed an organised, hygienic and efficient collection and distribution system, which is why the idea of the food-ATM seemed so appealing to the donors. “Once in a while, restaurants also give away cold drink bottles, which we gratefully accept,” says Sujoy Banerjee, a member of the club’s Food ATM organising committee. Members are now going a step further and approaching households in the area, telling them not to waste food but to pack it up neatly and call a helpline number that the club has set up, so that it can be collected from their doorsteps. “Even one small container of rice and a little dal or dry sabzi, which is what we are able to collect from most households, is enough lunch for a hungry mouth,” Siddique says.
 
 You have to be present at Ramleela Maidan around 1pm or 9pm any given day to see how the distribution is done and to see how happily the recipients — especially the kids — are, leaving with the food packets. “Khub bhalo khabar... we even get pieces of chicken, fish or eggs at times,” says Monua Patra, a 70-year-old woman who comes with her grandchildren for the food every day. “We share the food amongst us. God bless these good men,” she says.
 
 Perhaps the most popular of all the food ATMs is the one opposite Ladies Park on CIT Road. “At this ATM, we are not only getting food from restaurants, but also get excess food and cakes from birthday parties, wedding halls and party organisers,” says Surjya Kanta Haldar, the points person for this ATM.
 
 This ATM is also getting a lot of donations from schoolchildren of Don Bosco Park Circus and Mahadevi Birla Girls HS School, who keep chocolate, juices and cakes on their birthdays. “These happen quite often nowadays and we are able to happily distribute the goodies among the needy kids,” Haldar says.
 
 Both in Bhowanipore and Jadavpur, Pran is in the last stages of discussion about starting the ATMs. The refrigerators come free from the real estate group in accordance with the agreement with Pran. “The real challenge is that the club members need to network with local restaurants and in the neighbourhood to get a steady chain of donors,” Ahmed adds.
 
 At each partner restaurant, efforts are on to educate patrons about the initiative so that after they have eaten what they need, they can ask waiters to pack up the leftovers. Needless to say, the idea has clicked.
 
 
