What happened to Soorpanakha after her nose and breasts were chopped off, for the simple act of professing her love to a man she fancied?

 Kuchipudi artiste   staged a choreographed recital on the character in the UK in 2017, drawing parallels with acid attack victims of our country. She also threw light on the plight of Soorpanakha, whom we were all brainwashed to despise, since childhood. After she performed it, alongside the tale of another mythological character Poothana, a woman in the audience wrote her a long email. ‘It would be interesting to see how you can re-tell what happened to Shikhandi, one of the most prominent transgender characters of Indian mythology,’ read the email, much to the delight of Sreelakshmy, who has been spending a good part of her time for the past few years abroad, staging her productions. One of the most sought-after dancers of our time, Sreelakshmy brings in contemporary thoughts and ideas in abundance into her recitals.
 
 ‘Kalashree’ from Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi, Bharatham Yuva Kalakar, Kala Ratna, Singar Mani, Natya Ratna, Nalanada Nrutya Nipuna… she has awards galore in her cupboard and just as Soorpanakha, many productions too like Silapathikaram, and those based on Radha, Mandodari, Saptagiri Mountains and more. She has performed in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as the lead of the Kuchipudi team at the ‘Make in India’ programme at Hannover Messe in Germany, in 2015. Alongside hosting a number of sessions on the dance form, inside and outside the country, Sreelakshmy has also choreographed for award winning movies like Kanyaka Talkies and Priyamanasam.
 
 At the same time, the 37-year-old dancer born in Irinjalakuda says she is a die-hard purist. Rightfully so, for she is someone who took the pain to go all the way to the art form’s birthplace,   in Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh, to learn it from one of its few surviving maestros Sri Pasumarthy Rattaiha Sarma. “Don’t we often say that if the foundation is strong, you can fashion anything further in the manner that you want? That’s why I took the pain to learn the basics from where the art form originated.”
 
 That trip by Sreelakshmy, who has been professionally active since 2006, was nothing less than an adventure. “I knew no one there. I just took off, reached the village and found my guru.” She started visiting the village for about 10 days every month, in 2007 and continued doing so till 2010. “It isn’t a place where you get accommodation easily, but I managed to stay at one place or the other, for the love of the art form. I still go there around five or six times a year,” says the artiste, whose style is markedly different from the rest, influenced by her training.
 
 Sreelakshmy has been learning many things new, which an artiste otherwise does not get to learn from other gurus. “I am learning Kuchipudi yakshaganam now, which has been the original version of the art form, in the past.” She explains, “Originally, Kuchipudi was a male, Brahmin group performance, which was in the format of yakshaganam. It’s in the post-Independence period that its solo version took off, with the elements borrowed from the original. People have now forgotten its previous form and my guru is one of the few artistes alive who has performed it, and he is teaching me the same.” 
 One wonders, how is it that she got hooked to Kuchipudi? “I don’t know… I was getting trained in Bharatanatyam, Mohiniyattam and more, since childhood. It’s at the age of 13 that I started with Kuchipudi and soon after, it became my first love, it just felt right for me,” says Sreelakshmy, who was a clinical psychologist by profession, before fully immersing in dance around a decade ago. Her gurus were Sunil Nellayi, Vasudevan Namboothiri, Manju Bhargavi and Vyjayanti Kashi, before Sarma. Travelling extensively to watch different art forms and curating events are the other passions of hers, says Sreelakshmy, who had her hands behind renowned events like Rasavikalpam of Sangeeth Natak Akademi for three years and Narendra Modi’s UAE visit after 34 years, ‘Marhaba NaMo in Dubai.’
 
  “This year, I want to meet more of veteran artistes, document the padams and other age-old elements of various dance forms. I want to do my bit to keep them all alive, as long as possible,” she says.
 
