NEW DELHI: More than a   after the death of a 27-year-old man, working in a private firm in Noida,   have registered a   of   after findings of the forensic report suggested foul play.

 The man died near a metro station in Noida Sector 20, and while forensic reports confirmed high blood alcohol levels, the reason of death has come out to be asphyxiation.
 
 According to the police, Kamta Singh fell ill while going to his office in Noida Sector 16. Singh was rushed to a government hospital, where he was declared brought dead. 
 
 The victim’s elder brother raised the suspicion of foul play after the autopsy result gave no clear reason for Singh’s death. Doctors, who conducted the autopsy, didn’t find any external injury on Singh’s body. The viscera were preserved with the samples being shifted from Noida Sector 20 police station to   in Delhi in April 2017.
 
 In May 2017, Singh’s brother, Om Prakash, raised suspicion that his brother had been poisoned. He blamed Singh’s wife and her brother as the victim lived with them in New Ashok Nagar. Cops said that the viscera samples were sent to a forensic lab in Rohini for chemical examination. Even though the results found no trace of poisoning, the blood samples did contain presence of alcohol.
 
 “The doctors opined that the blood alcohol levels stood at 49.5 mg/100ml of blood. The chemical examination didn’t find any presence of poisonous substance though,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Despite heavy presence of alcohol, the cause of death, as indicated by medical experts, came out to be asphyxiation, which was proven through bluish discoloration of the skin due to poor oxygen supply and congestion of viscera.
 
 As the reasons of asphyxia are yet to be ascertained, cops have been asked to investigate the death under sections of murder, following the allegations raised by Om Prakash.
 
  DCP (east)   said that a case under Section 302 (murder) has been registered.
 
 Cops are going through the call details of the victim and will also be questioning family members and friends to obtain more information.
 
 
