DHARWAD:   insisted on total autonomy for   and non-interference in their functioning by the government and politicians, said C V Venugopal, retired professor of English, Karnatak University, Dharwad.

 Speaking at a discussion organised by city-based Sneha Prakashana on the book 'Educational Philosophy of Dr S Radhakrishnan,' by late V N Deshpande and published by the Manipal University Press on Wednesday, Venugopal said that Radhakrishnan, who headed the  , placed great importance on the role of teachers and the quality of teaching in shaping the youth.
 
 “Radhakrishnan was of the view that a true teacher must also be a seeker. After he was made the vice-chancellor of Andhra University in 1931, Radhakrishnan gave the university a momentum. He urged that appointments should be made purely on academic grounds, free from interference from the government,” he said. 
 
 “Radhakrishna brought the most promising and distinguished professors including VKRV Rao, CV Raman and M Visvesvaraya as faculty. Within two years Radhakrishnan made Andhra University one of the most prestigious academic centres in India. He was of the firm conviction that universities can become temples of knowledge only when total autonomy is given to them,” Venugopal added.
 
 The proffessor said the book by V N Deshpande is based on thorough research and takes into account every possible detail associated with the life and works of Radhakrishnan, the most admired philosopher and educationalist both in the East and the West.
 
 Sharing his views, critic Dushyant Nadagouda said Radhakrishnan stressed on liberty of mind, dignity of individual and democracy. “As an idealist philosopher Radhakrishnan's perspective is that evolution is not blind and mechanical but has some purpose. Radhakrishnan was convinced that the right kind of   would help each individual contribute to the fulfillment of this ultimate purpose," said Nadagouda.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Neeta Inamdar, chief editor, Manipal University Press, pointed out that while there are plenty of books on philosophy, there is a dearth of publications on educational philosophy in India. More books on the subject should come out, she said.
 
 Harsha Dambal of Sneha Prakashana said the book is full of information and insights and serves as a rich reference source for teachers, students, research scholars, and general readers.
 
 
