NEW DELHI: As the knotty issue of 'judicial discipline and propriety' in giving contradictory judgments by two benches of the   has snowballed into a controversy, CJI   has constituted a five-judge   to examine the issue. 

 A three-judge bench headed by Justice Madan B Lokur had last week taken umbrage at a three-judge bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra on February 8 overruling a 2014 verdict given by another three-judge bench in the ' ' case, terming the earlier judgment "per incurium" (decision rendered without taking care of facts and law). Both the cases concerned land acquisition.
 
 Significantly, the Pune Municipal Corporation judgment was rendered on January 24, 2014, by a bench of Justices R M Lodha, Lokur and Joseph. Justices Lokur and Joseph were among the four senior SC judges who held an unprecedented press conference on January 12 and alleged that the CJI was allotting "sensitive" cases to "select" benches, one of which was headed by Justice Arun Mishra. 
 
  After the Justice Mishra-headed bench reversed the 2014 verdict in the 'Pune Municipal Corporation' case, the Justice Lokur-headed bench on February 21 asked high courts not to pass any order on pending land acquisition issues, thus stalling implementation of the February 8 judgment 
 
  Justice Joseph, who was on the bench with Justice Lokur, said, "The Supreme Court operates on a system and principle which are holy. There is a method and procedure to be followed. If the Supreme Court has to be one, it has to be made one. To make it one, you need judicial discipline. The Supreme Court must not speak in 14 voices (indicating that the existing 14 benches must not speak differently on the judicial side ). It is not good for the institution." 
 
  The issue got further complicated with two two-judge benches referring the matter to the CJI for resolution by a larger bench on February 22. Now, the constitution bench of   and Justices A K Sikri, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and Ashok Bhushan will hear the matter on March 6. 
 
  In its February 8 judgment, the apex court had said land acquired could not be quashed due to delay on part of land owners in accepting compensation within five years due to litigation or other reasons. On February 21, the Justice Lokur-headed bench had questioned how the verdict could be set aside by a bench with equal strength and said the matter should have been decided by a larger bench. 
 
 
