NAGPUR: Multipronged efforts are on for preventing the attack of pink bollworm in the forthcoming cotton season across Vidarbha.

 After over 40 deaths of farmers and farm labours last season, planned strategies are being adopted to prevent such instances in the next kharif season. The high court has also directed government agencies to educate farmers.
 
 NGOs like the   (ISCI), Mumbai, South Asia Biotechnology Centre (SABC), Delhi and the  , Nagpur, are specially campaigning village to village in Vidarbha and Marathwada, educating farmers about the required management practices for preventing pest attack and minimize the use of pesticides on cotton in the next season.
 
 Besides the NGOs, the state agriculture department is also trying to take the recommendations of the Central Institute for Cotton Research (CICR) to the farmers.
 
 CD Mayee, president SABC, told TOI that the three NGOs are jointly working to reach every farmer with education material on preventive measures for pest attack and agriculture management practices specific for Bt cotton.
 
 “The ISCI has put in over Rs18 lakh just for posters. We have prepared cartoon based booklets on instructions for farmers. Vehicles carrying our men with these materials are moving around in villages across both regions,” he said.
 
 Mayee said that the campaign was started about a month back so that farmers can be told to terminate the standing cotton crop before end of February. This will break the life cycle of the pink bollworm, the biggest pest which resulted in huge consumption of pesticides last season.
 
 “The meeting with the Maharashtra CM  , union minister Nitin Gadkari and central agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh with union agriculture secretaries was the first inspiration for taking up this preventive campaign. It was here that we decided that when Gujarat could control the pest attack year before through involvement of all stake holders Maharashtra could also go the same way,” said Mayee.
 
 CICR director Vijay Waghmare told TOI that it had submitted its recommendations to the state agriculture department. The department officials in turn submitted that the agriculture assistants and supervisors were already on the job from last two months.
 
 A workshop for other officials was also slated for Sunday. “We are telling farmers to follow crop rotation. We are telling them to sell their stalks to the particle board makers,” said Narayan Sishode, the joint director agriculture (JDA) of Nagpur division.
 
 The Amravati division   said that the farmers are being told to not use unapproved seeds and not buy from the ‘fly by night’ operators. They are being told not to go for long duration hybrids.
 
 
