HYDERABAD: In what appears to be the building up of a confrontation between the judiciary and the legislature in Telangana, the TRS government has decided to convene a special Assembly session and “reiterate the supremacy of the legislature” in the wake of the Hyderabad high court setting aside the expulsions of Congress legislators   and S A Sampath Kumar.

 Stating that these two MLAs had injured council chairman   in the eye by throwing a microphone at the chair aimed at governor E S L Narasimhan during the joint session of the   on March 12, legislative affairs minster T   had moved a resolution the next day seeking their expulsion and the same was done by the Assembly after being put to vote by the speaker. 
  
 However, after the two Congress MLAs challenged their expulsions in high court, they were ordered to be reinstated on Tuesday.
 
 On Thursday, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao called on governor Narasimhan and is understood to have informed him about the intention of the state government to convene a special session of the Assembly to discuss the high court verdict.
 
 
 
 
 Since the Assembly has been adjourned sine die, the governor has to issue a notification to convene the special session. “The Telangana government is of the view that the judiciary cannot intervene in decisions taken by the legislature. Therefore, the special session of the Assembly is being convened,” sources in the government told TOI.
 
 The Assembly is likely to pass a resolution reiterating the expulsions of the two Congress MLAs, thus setting the stage for a confrontation between the judiciary and the legislature.
 
 Meanwhile, Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and Sampath Kumar on Thursday threatened to file a contempt petition in the high court against the   for not honouring the court order that reinstated them as MLAs.
 
 Indicating the mind of the state government on the issue, legislative affairs minister Harish Rao had told a section of the media on Wednesday that the house was supreme and that it was the unanimous decision of the Assembly to expel the two MLAs.
 
 Stating that the judiciary should not meddle in legislative affairs, Harish Rao said the assembly will take a call on the high court verdict.
 
