MUMBAI: Placing a 30-year-old sweeper’s body at the doorstep of the BMC’s headquarters, the   labourers’ union in the city recently staged a protest alleging she had ended her life as her employer had asked her to stop coming, saying there was no work. The contractor hired by the   had also allegedly not paid Sumati Devendra, a single mother working for 10 years, her   including her provident fund ( ). 

 In July 2015, Sadyandi Kaunder, a 25-year-old sweeper, died of undiagnosed jaundice. His parents are still being made to run from pillar to post for his dues, PF and employee insurance scheme (EIS) amount.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Nearly 120 such conservancy   have died in the past four years—not all on duty, some also due to accidents or undetected illnesses like tuberculosis—and their families’ wait for dues still continues, the union has said.
 
 Their chief allegation is that contractors circumvent labour laws and shortchange workers right under the BMC’s nose. Many contractors deprive them of their PF despite deducting 12.5% of their monthly salary for it.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The BMC hires about 6,600 workers every year from 200-odd small contractors for sanitation work. According to norms, these workers must be paid at least Rs560 a day.
 
 Under the Industrial Disputes Act, a worker has the right to demand a permanent position if he/she has worked continuously for 240 days. Contractors often hire workers only for six months, and then the BMC awards the work to another contractor (the BMC’s argument for changing contractors every six months is that it wants to avoid cartelization). Though the workers remain more or less the same under a new contractor, this means a labourer works with one contractor for less than 240 days and cannot claim a permanent slot.
 
 The PF amount has to be deducted regardless of the term of the contract. But there are two hindrances to claiming it if the need arises, either for the worker or his/her family. One is that many workers aren’t given their salary slip every month, so they often have no clue how much money has been deducted and accumulated. The second is that for claiming their fund from the PF office, they need a letter of sanction from the contractor who had employed them. The contractors either sit on their request or are inaccessible -- many of them are small so they aren’t easily traceable after a certain period either -- and the BMC talks of its inability to take action against them because their contract with the civic body stands already terminated. 
 
 For instance, Sadyandi Kaunder’s father, Ayyanar Kaunder (54), also a sweeper like him in Andheri, visited the ward office several times, only to be told the contractor hadn’t deposited the PF amount though it was being deducted from the son’s salary from 2011.
 
 Ayyanar suffered a paralytic attack a few months after Sadyandi’s death, which took away his meagre savings. Ayyanar and his wife Painima, who came to the city from Tamil Nadu 30 years ago to escape the drought there, were doing odd jobs before landing a contract job.
 
 “As his father himself works as a labourer we know money was being deducted for PF. But even for his funeral, we had to borrow money from friends,” said his mother Painima, who speaks Hindi unlike Ayyanar, who only speaks Tamil. Sadyandi’s employers did not always give him a salary slip, so no one knows the total money deducted for PF.
 
 Nanda Naravde, a sweeper working in Powai from 1999, was diagnosed with breast cancer six months ago and had to take a Rs25,000 loan for treatment. “There was one contractor when I was diagnosed with cancer, and a new one came in while I was taking treatment. Neither wants to approve my application for withdrawing my PF,” said Naravde, whose daughter is an MCom student. Her loan amounts are likely to further go up as she continues medication for the next five years.
 
 Milind Ranade, general secretary of the Kachra Vahatuk Shramik Sangh (KVSS), a union that works for   labourers, said, “PM Narendra Modi is going to town with the Swachh Bharat mission, and its foot-soldiers are living a life of poverty and neglect.”
 
 And in case a worker dies, contractors and civic officials often turn a blind eye to his family. When Ramesh Pote, a dump truck loader, was run over by a speeding car in Ahmednagar in 2014, his wife, Janabai, got no aid. “All his documents, including his identity card, which were in his pocket, were lost in the accident,” said Janabai, who pays Rs3,500 as monthly rent for her tenement in a Govandi slum.
 
 She went to the local ward office to seek help to apply for his PF and other dues from the contractor, but in vain. “I went three times and then stopped as I could not afford the bus tickets,” said Janabai, who is raising two sons by sneaking into dumping grounds to collect waste and selling it to recyclers after segregation.
 
 Municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta said the civic body has set guidelines for hiring and paying contract workers. “Wages are paid to them as per the guidelines, and other benefits are the responsibility of the contractor,” Mehta told TOI.
 
 However, state labour department officials said if a contractor is violating labour laws, the primary employer, which in this case is the BMC, can take action against him. “So far, not a single contractor has been removed for violation of labour norms,” an official pointed out. BMC officials however claim the question of removal does not arise as the agreement with the contractor no longer exists (most complaints are about old contractors).
 
 Explaining the rulebook, officials from the labour department said the labourers have one PF account number which is handed over to the contractor who hires them. BMC officials said the responsibility of depositing the PF amount is that of the contractor, and it doesn't concern the corporation as it is the contractor who is the employer.
 
 But labour department officials said whenever they receive a complaint about PF not being paid or deposited, they serve notices to the BMC as it is the primary employer. Action, though, cannot be initiated – again because the contractor’s term has expired.
 
 BMC officials have faulted this very methodology of the labour department for inaction against errant contractors. “They should not send us notices, they should get hold of the contractor directly. The labour commissioner even has the power to prosecute, but that has never been used,” said an official.
 
