INDORE: A customs and central excise department assistant commissioner from Indore will be battling sub-zero temperature in the coming days to learn leadership skills on spreading awareness about climate change by studying the conditions at  .

 He has been selected as a member of an international group of 80 environmentalists and climate change experts, who will be taken to Antarctica between February 28 and March 12.
 
 Afaq Giri, 30, will also tell the group how the   has helped in reducing the carbon footprint of the nation. “E-way bills have reduced the paperwork and the requirement of check posts and subsequently the petrol and diesel needed to reach to these check posts,” Afaq Giri said.
 
 Giri has been selected for the expedition not only because of his position in the government, but also because of his track record of having worked as a volunteer during the 2014 floods in Kashmir, close to his home-town Banihal.
 
 Giri was moved by the scene in the valley following the floods, and he gradually understood the need for disaster management and environment conservation. “I felt that across India there is no preparedness for a flood and other such natural disasters despite ample knowledge of disaster-prone areas. Moreover, in valley, people are cutting trees at the higher altitude and encroaching upon the rivers and embankments in the lower regions increasing the risk of floods,” he said passionately.
 
 Following his rescue operation at Kashmir in 2014 and at Chennai in 2015, he started conducting disaster management and awareness seminars across the country as an NGO worker and later joined the Indian Revenue Services.
 
 His expedition has been funded by the  , on the recommendation of his commissioner and chief commissioner. Giri is one of 12 Indians, who have been selected for the expedition. “I am quite fond of adventure sports but have never done anything close to this. I had been interested in climate change issue ever since I rescued people during floods in Kashmir and Chennai and saw what human interference has done to the nature,” said Giri, who loves to study geography.
 
 The expedition will begin from the city of Ushuaia in Argentina on February 28, wherein all the participants will embark on the journey in a ship. After spending 12 days there, the group will return Ushuaia on March 12. The expedition will also include a trip to the Ukrainian research base Vernadsky near Antarctica.
 
 The group will also study the flora and fauna of the region to understand the impact of climate change. Leadership sessions will also be conducted on how to sensitise the world about climate change and bring in changes at policy level for the same.
 
 “Once I come back, I wish to create a leadership module for sensitising the departmental officers, school going children and college students with the experience I will gain from the expedition about building sustainability and fostering emotional intelligence,” Giri said.
 
 
