VIJAYAWADA: IT minister Nara   on Monday said the   in the 2019 elections will be its erstwhile ally   and not the  , in statements that reflect a clear shift in the party’s poll strategy.

 Lokesh said the BJP is “trying to bring YSRC back to life from its coma by pumping oxygen into it”, and said casting votes for the YSRC would be akin to voting for the BJP.
 
 The IT minister was speaking on the second day of Mahanadu, the annual plenary of the TDP.
 
 “Election season has already arrived. But there is a lot of difference between the 2014 elections and the coming elections. In 2014 elections, the rival (YSRC) stood in front of us directly, but now the enemy ( BJP) has no guts to confront us directly. So it is coming in different forms to sabotage the TDP,” Lokesh said.
 
 “It would be wrong to think that our main enemy is the YSRC, as the BJP is the real enemy of the Andhra people,” Lokesh said.
 
 The minister said the BJP is not entirely confident of the YSRC, so it is roping in former IAS officers, actor and sometimes resorting to raking up caste as well as levelling false allegations on TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu in order to malign the TDP.
 
 “Our leader has 40 years of experience with no charges against him. But they are making desperate attempts to show that he is tainted,” he said. “The BJP is trying hard to confuse people as it cannot convince them,” he added.
 
 “Jagan is telling people to catch Naidu by the collar and question him on corruption. Why should we do thart? Is it because he developed the state by dint of hard work, and laid 17,000 km of roads in villages within four years?” Lokesh asked.
 
 The TDP leader also challenged the opposition to come up with evidence on allegations of corruption against him. “They are making personal allegations against me, I am asking them to show proof. I might not earn as good a name as my father and grandfather, but I will certainly not tarnish their name,” he said.
 
 Lokesh further said Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan is making comments without checking the facts in the case of kidney patients in Uddanam. “We have shifted the water treatment plants to be set up in Kuppam constituency to Uddanam,” Lokesh said.
 
 
