MYSURU: Nearly two days after president of the Mysuru BJP Yuva Morcha   was allegedly assaulted by the sub-inspector of  , City police finally relented to enormous pressure from the legal fraternity, who have been protesting since two days after boycotting court proceedings, and registered an FIR against SI Yellalinga.

 The move by Mysuru police comes in the wake of massive protests staged by the   on Monday and Tuesday. While the incident triggered outrage in the Mysuru BJP wing on Sunday, with MP   leading the   in front of the Nazarbad police station on Sunday night, the   staged a demonstration on Monday, objecting to an assault on a member of the Bar.
 
 Continuing their agitation for a second consecutive day, the lawyers decided to take the protest to the doors of Nazarbad police station, in front of which they assembled in large numbers on Tuesday. While Mysuru police refused to give in to the lawyers’ demand to suspend Yellalinga, an inquiry has been ordered into the incident.
 
 Lakshmipuram inspector Raghu will be in charge of probing the case.
 
 Although Mysuru police registered an FIR against Nazarbad SI Yellalinga, and ordered a probe into the incident in the afternoon hours on Tuesday, the lawyers refused to call off the protest, and remained firm in their demand for the SI’s suspension. Although senior police officials told the protesters that certain procedure had to be followed before an SI could be suspended, the agitating lawyers refused to heed their pleas.
 
 It was 5.30pm before the lawyers left the protest site.
 
 Members of the Mysuru Bar Association said that a general body meeting had been called on Wednesday. “We will take a call on whether we will continue the protest at the meeting,’ said a Bar member.
 
 Meanwhile, deputy commissioner of police (law and order) N Vishnuvardhana told TOI that the protesters were adamant on SI Yellalinga’s suspension. “But there are certain procedures that need to be followed for suspending an SI. We have booked a case against him, and initiated an inquiry,” he added.
 
 Spontaneous protest by BJP on Sunday
 
 Police sources claimed that Gokul visited the Nazarbad station to lodge a complaint in about misuse of government property. He introduced himself as the president of the BJP Yuva Morcha, and revealed he was a lawyer only after a quarrel with the cop.
 
 Members of the   in Mysuru staged a spontaneous protest in front of the Nazarbad police station on Sunday night after learning that Gokul was assaulted by an SI. A few members of the morcha even tried entering the station, which only served to escalate the issue further. When police detained Gokul, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha too joined the protesters and demanded his release. Lawyers jumped into the agitation after gokul was booked by Nazarbad police on charges of assaulting a police officer on duty.
 
 Gokul had reportedly come to Nazarbad station to lodge a complaint against illegal parking on a Mysore Urban Development Authority (Muda) site on Lokranjan Road. Gokul allegedly got into a spat with SI Yellalinga, which escalated into a scuffle.
 
 
