GURUGRAM: Wholesale   marts (mandis) around Gurugram are facing a crunch. Farmers are complaining the   they bring over to the mandis as per schedule, are either not being accepted, or not getting transported to the warehouse straight away, resulting in exposure to  , and the possibility of rotting. 

 As TOI had reported from Sohna   on April 10, unseasonal rain had left much of this season’s procured grain in the district wet. At Sohna mandi, several farmers, who were waiting to deposit their crop — both wheat and mustard — also reported delays, and of state-run agencies refusing to buy the produce from some farmers. “Rains were a problem in Sohna as mandi agencies refused to purchase grains that had seelan (moisture). But the situation has improved in the Sohna since then,” said farmer Karan Singh Raghav of Badshapur Tether village. 
 
 Farmers and officials agree their biggest problem is lack of storage. According to a departmental source, Haryana has 108 mandis and 300 (smaller) purchasing centres, of which 152 are vulnerable to inclement weather as they don’t have walls or sheds. Farrukhanagar farmer Rao Maan Singh said, “We will sell our crop, but it’s people down the line who depend on rations, who will suffer when the grain isn’t stored quickly.”
 
 He also hinted at a collusion between mandi officials and truck unions behind the delay in procurement. “The delay is deliberate, as was the sudden halt in procurement between April 10 and April 16. Farmers who were scheduled to bring their crop in those days had to turn back, and will have to rehire trucks or tractors to come back with the crop on another day, benefiting truck owners,” said Singh. 
 
 Last week, SDM Pataudi Vivek Kalia, while inspecting the mandis in Jatauli and Farrukhnagar, had recorded a number of complaints, including refusal of agencies to procure grains, delay in payment and of procured grains not being lifted to the warehouse by the transporter.
 
 The Farrukhnagar mandi committee’s report says their mart alone had bought 1,74,059 quintals of wheat between April 1, 2017 and March 31, 2018. In comparison, 1,70,745 quintals have already been received between April 1 and April 15 this year, indicating a rise in foodgrain input at the mandi. However, with shortage of decent quality storage or transport facilities in the district, this could easily  . 
 
 According to officials, agencies had stopped procurement of foodgrains for six days last week citing either excess moisture or shortage of gunny bags. Agencies, including Hafed — which procures mustard — and Haryana Warehouse Corporation (HWC) — which procures wheat — were also asked to speed up lifting and transportation. Samay Singh Bhati, the Kisan Morcha president from Sohna, pointed out to a dire shortage in agriculture development officers (ADO) for the delays. While there are posts for 2,000 ADOs, there are only 600 of them.
 
 During SDM Kalia’s visit to the mandis, agencies had cited lack of gunny bags — which are procured by the food and supply department from the Jute Corporation in Kolkata — to store wheat, as the reason behind stopping procurement. “Though at the time of inspection, procured grains were being lifted for storage, the long lag between procurement and storage was evident from the huge stock lying in the open. Ideally, grains should be lifted and stored on a day-to-day basis,” said Kalia. Though procurement began on April 2, lifting started only after April 8 as HWC wanted to reduce labour and other costs, resulting in almost 40% of the stock lying in the open at the mandis.
 
 The division-head also met a member of marketing committee and officials of Hafed and HWC on the spot on April 14. He reported HWC was issuing cheques to farmers which had to be signed from HWC district manager in Palwal. Agency officials were also asked not to cite moisture as reason for not lifting grains from the market, because if the stock had been lifted on time, it wouldn’t have got wet. Instead, the inspection note by the HWC division head threatened action against officials responsible for procurement delay. 
 
 Earlier this month, TOI had reported that over 500 quintals of wheat, which was lying in the open at the mandi, had become wet and was at the risk of rotting. While Gurugram is not a prominent agricultural district, unscheduled rains have wreaked havoc with foodgrain procurement.
 
 
