BENGALURU: Several   have declared a holiday on Thursday in view of the   called by   to press for a speedy resolution to the Mahadayi water dispute.

 The department of public instruction will decide on Wednesday whether to declare a holiday for government schools in the state.
 
 The bandh is likely to throw life out of gear with cabs, taxis and autorickshaws likely to stay off the road. KSRTC, BMTC buses and Metro will ply as usual, but their services could be withdrawn based on the law-and-order situation on that day.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 
 
 The education department will take a decision on Wednesday whether to keep   on Thursday in view of the Karnataka bandh called by Kannada organizations to press for an early solution to the Mahadayi issue.
 
 Commissioner of public instruction, PC Jaffer, told TOI that deputy directors across the state will decide on Wednesday whether to keep schools open the day of the bandh. Government colleges and other institutions of higher education are also awaiting a directive from the commissionerate of collegiate education.
 
 D Shashi Kumar of the Karnataka Association of Managements for Unaided Schools said their affiliate private schools will remain shut. Students of Mallya Aditi International School, who had their final exams on Thursday, have been given a holiday and the exams have been postponed.
 
 Essential services like chemists’ shops will remain open on Thursday. “We wear a black band to support the bandh, but all 8,000 shops will stay open,” said MK Mayanna, president of Bruhat Bengaluru Chemists’ and Druggists’ Association.
 
 Metro will operate as usual. BMRCL spokesman UA Vasanth Rao said: “We may stop services based on police advice only if there’s a safety threat tocommuters or Metro infrastructure.”
 
 Tanveer Pasha, president of the JD(S)-backed Taxi Drivers’ Association, said they will participate in the bandh. Ola and Uber will operate unless there is a security concern. K Radhakrishna Holla, of theBangalore Tourist Taxi Owners’ Association, saidthey willtake a decision on Wednesday.
 
 Rudramurthy, an officebearer of the CITU-backed Autorickshaw Drivers’ Union, said they were supporting the bandh, and some autorickshaws will operate in case of an emergency.
 
 Bankshope itwillbebusiness as usual. “The bandh has no connection withbanking activities. All of our branches and ATMs will work on that day,” MS Mahabaleshwara, CEO of Karnataka Bank. MM Chiniwar, general manager, Bangaluru Circle of Canara Bank, said: “The bandh call will not affect our branches or ATMs. As far as the long weekend after that, we’llload ATMs with enough cash.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
