MUMBAI: The   has directed   judges to adopt a more sensitive and humane approach when dealing with issues of counselling for children of  . The court slammed one family court judge for “terrifying” a mother by imposing five harsh consequences including her arrest and shifting custody of a teenager to his estranged father if she failed to take the son to a counsellor as directed a year ago.

 “It is high time that the Judges of the Family Court who are confronted with such issues day in and day out and who are required to exercise the jurisdiction vested in them adopt an approach of sensitivity, judicious consideration of the circumstances and a humane approach in passing such orders,” said Justice   while disposing a petition last month. A woman had moved HC against the order of the Mumbai family court passed last July in a plea made a year earlier, by her estranged husband.
 
 “Parties and children before the Family Court are as it is in a disturbed state of mind, they are already suffering under the litigation. It is least expected that such judicial orders in a given situation do not add to the woes and suffering of such parties,” said the HC.
 
 The HC said what was sought to be achieved by the family court order passed “in terrorem” (as a legal threat) was forceful presence of their son before a counsellor, without verifying his willingness.”
 
 The Bandra family court had directed the father of the boy, then aged 16, to take an appointment with a child psychologist and the mother was to take the child to the counsellor at the appointed time. After a week, the father had moved family court with an execution application to ensure the child was taken for counselling. The family court decided the father’s plea a year later and held it was “required to take coercive steps” to ensure the application doesn’t become infructuous. The family court said if the mother does not follow the court order, it would be constrained to execute it by firstly cancelling her maintenance; attaching her movable and immovable properties; striking off her defence in a custody petition filed in 2012 and lastly her arrest and shifting custody of child to decree holder.
 
 The HC said “FC judge also failed to interview the child before passing such a drastic order” and wondered what weighed in the judge’s mind “to pass such a harsh order so as to terrify the mother to face five drastic consequences…”.
 
 The HC had last August stayed the family court order but by consent of both parents had the child interviewed by a counsellor. The counsellor’s report was legal issues between his parents were affecting the child, leading to normal strains in a father-son relationship which could be corrected by appropriate guidance and counselling. The child, who turns a major in July, has an excellent academic record and had travelled abroad for a student exchange programme.
 
 The mother’s lawyers Ramesh and Sadhana Lalwani and father’s counsel   agreed any further counselling could be after the child's exams in June. The mother said she was willing to make him available for further counselling between June and July. The HC, disposing the petition, said it would be open for family court to interview him if he is unwilling for counselling when he turns 18. But HC said what was “disturbing” was approach of the FC judge.
 
