HYDERABAD: In a major blow to Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and   (HMWS&SB), banks are not allowing sanctioning of loans to deserving consumers who wish to construct rainwater harvesting (RWH) structures as part of  

 The reason banks cite is there is no provision for sanctioning loans for the construction of   Rules were framed only to sanction home loans,  , gold loans and personal loans but sanctioning loans for RWH structures are new to them.
 
 About two months ago, the   had convened a meeting with all banks working under State Level Banks Coordination (SLBC) at district level and sought their help in sanctioning loans for construction of RWH structures in the city. The water board also told them that the loans to be sanctioned were based on the list of consumers identified by the general managers of operation and maintenance (O&M) divisions in GHMC limits.
 
 The water board has sought banks to sanction ?20,000 as loan to each consumer for construction of one RWH structure. The water board also gave assurance to the banks that they would pay the interest for sanctioning loans on behalf of the consumers.
 
 The water board asked the banks concerned to come forward with rules and regulations as early as possible for sanctioning loans for building the RWH structures.
 
 “Banks, in turn, communicated to HMWSSB proposal to their zonal offices working at state-level and main branches working at the national level to take a final decision. In fact, for banks, it was the first time that there was a proposal to sanction loans for RWH structures in the country. As a result, delay may occur to frame rules and regulations for sanctioning the loans” sources in HMWSSB told TOI.
 
 According to the banks’ feedback, it may take at least four to five months to frame rules and regulations and come up with a resolution, sources added. By that time, the rainy season may end too, said sources.
 
 However, the water board will go ahead and continue its efforts to construct as many RWH structures as possible under Jalam-Jeevam programme. They want to built around 2,000 RWH structures by April end.
 
