NEW DELHI: The Central security establishment will review impact of the ongoing suspension of operations in Jammu & Kashmir on the local sentiment towards the end of  , before deciding on its extension or any further modification in policy. Among the parameters on which outcome of the peace initiative will be assessed are the levels of fresh recruitment of locals into militancy, any violations by the local terrorists, cases of   terrorists returning to the mainstream and general law & order trends including stone-pelting incidents during the truce period.

 
 As per initial assessment of the security agencies, the Ramzan truce has been "much appreciated" by the people of J&K with reports so far pointing to zero initiation of cordon and search operations (CASO) in built-up areas, zero killing of terrorists and zero recruitment of locals into militancy. According to J&K police sources, barely five stone pelting incidents were reported between May 17, when the suspension of operations came into force, and May 21, as compared to the peak of 92 incidents witnessed between April 1 and 5 this year. 
 
 "The truce has held so far. Unlike the pre-May 15 period when 38 local terrorists were killed in operations and 71 Kashmiris joined militancy, of which 55 were confirmed cases and 16 suspected ones, there will be a respite in killings and recruitment. Of late, funerals of local terrorists killed in counter-terror offensives have become the recruitment ground for fresh terrorists. With operations suspended, such funerals shall be contained and hence attempts at recruitment," said a senior officer. 
 
 If local terrorists respond positively to the truce, there is a good possibility of extending it to the   as well. "We need to allay any fear of the pilgrims being targetted during the yatra. The success of the Ramzan truce and its extension will help us in this endeavour," said an officer. However, much will depend on whether peace sustains. 
 
 Sources said the Centre's special representative for J&K dialogue   is due to visit Kashmir from Wednesday to discuss measures to ensure a peaceful Ramzan period. He will meet J&K chief minister  , governor N N Vohra and other senior officers of the security establishment.
 
 TOI has learnt that the Centre may initiate some confidence-building measures during the truce period. The families of local terrorists who have freshly joined militancy are likely to be encouraged to persuade them to return to the mainstream. "Those who have recently joined militancy have done so largely due to local anger and sentiment, often exploited by their recruiters at funeral gatherings for dead terrorists. The new recruits are poorly trained and ill-equipped. Many do not last beyond a few months into militancy. The reduced tensions during Ramzan are expected to facilitate their return," said an officer. 
 
 
