HYDERABAD: The   (just 600-800 calories per day) and the Ketogenic diet (extremely low carbs) are the latest diet fads gaining ground in the city thanks to their effectiveness in reversing Type-2 diabetes.

 In fact, these diets are increasingly being recommended by diabetologists and dieticians for weight management and related issues, including ‘remission of diabetes’.
 
 Lowering sugar levels through low calorie diet is clearly a benefit for diabetics. “Lower need for insulin is also useful as lowering insulin levels can reduce insulin resistance, which can help reverse Type-2 diabetes. Insulin is also the fat storage hormone so reducing its level with a low-carb diet can help with weight loss,” explains Dr  , senior consultant diabetologist, Max-Cure Hospitals, Madhapur.
 
 One of the latest studies published in ‘The Lancet’ shows that by replacing the diet (to around 850 kcal per day) almost half the participants achieved remission to a non-diabetic state and were off antidiabetic drugs.
  
  
 
 “While studies have proven that in case of low calorie diet the remission of diabetes was linked to weight lost, ketogenic diet has been proven in recent studies to even reduce the HbA1c levels (which is the diabetes readings for a three month period). While the diet was followed for 6-8 weeks and up to a year in different studies, diabetes remission happened in 50-70% of patients,” explained Dr P  , consultant nutritionist and national executive member  .
 
 However, experts caution against taking up these diets without expert supervision as it can be highly risky and lead to an imbalance of vitamins and minerals.
 
 They point out that while diets under supervision can last from six weeks to a couple of months, people tend to go overboard when taken up without any guidance, upsetting the body’s nutrient balance.
 
 Apart from the period when the diet is followed, even the period of transition to regular diet needs to be monitored as that’s when more harm can happen, add experts.
 
