KANNUR: The monthly meeting of the   at the collectorate in   on Thursday witnessed a strong protest by the affected people, especially the mothers of the children with disability, after the authorities allegedly removed the names of 1618 affected people from the new list, thus denying them the solatium, medical support and other benefits. Following the protest, revenue minister  , who chaired to meeting, promised to examine the complaints and take a decision accordingly.

 The affected people staged the protest after their repeated requests had fallen on deaf ears and there was no commitment from the authorities even after they staged a protest at the Secretariat recently.
 
 When the meeting was about to begin, the aggrieved people also entered the hall and raised their demand. At this the officials and the minister promised they would give them time after the meeting and after this assurance protestors left the venue of meeting.
 
 Later, interacting with the aggrieved people, the minister said the government will examine if the 1618 people who have not been included in the list even after their medical examination, are eligible to be included in the list.
 
 Though the doctors who had examined the affected people in five medical camps in April 2017 prepared a list of 1905 people, the organization working for the affected people alleged that when the final list was prepared, the higher authorities cut it down to 287, following which they launched an agitation.
 
 In was in this backdrop that the mothers barged into the conference hall, blaming the authorities of being indifferent towards their plight and no decision has been taken for the benefit of the victims.
 
 According to the authorities, in the reexamination, they would make efforts to find out if the 1618 had been residents of the 11 notified panchayats where the pesticide was used, when it was sprayed there. The minister also said special camps would be organised in this connection.
 
 The minister, who said that the government is taking care of the needs of the affected people including the treatment to the children, added it has so far given Rs 57 crore aid to the affected people and in the latest budget Rs 50 have been earmarked.
 
