MUMBAI: An Indian Coast Guard Chetak helicopter on routine patrol crashlanded six nautical miles (about 11 km) north of Murud near Alibaug on Saturday. While three crew members escaped with minor injuries, the woman co-pilot was unconscious when the rescue team reached the spot to airlift them to Mumbai.

 An   rescue team airlifted assistant commandant Penny Choudhary (co-pilot), deputy commandant Balwinder Singh (pilot) and two crew members Sandeep and Baljeet to INHS Asvini Hospital in Colaba.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 A senior Coast Guard official said the pilot, Singh, showed presence of mind and not only managed to save the helicopter from damage, but also steered away from crowded places and the sea and saved the lives of all four.
 
 Investigations are on to know the reason for the incident and the Coast Guard has instituted a Board of Inquiry. “The crew has been evacuated. The pilot and two sailors suffered minor bruises but are still in hospital, but the co-pilot was unconscious and has suffered bleeding. She is under observation in ICU. All are stable,” said a Navy official.
 
 The incident occurred around 2.40pm, nearly 25 minutes after the helicopter took off from INS Shikra, the Naval base in Colaba.
 
 “The   Helicopter CG 803 that took off from Mumbai for routine surveillance sortie with four crew members made an emergency landing near Nandgaon Beach, Murud. Preliminary findings indicate the crew experienced technical difficulties 25 minutes after taking off. The crew managed to avoid populated places and the sea,” deputy commandant (ICG PRO),   said.
 
 An Indian Navy spokesperson said two Chetak helicopters and a Seaking ‘C’ helicopter were deployed on the Search and Rescue (SAR) mission. “Two ICG Chetaks and an Air Force Mi 17 helicopter were part of the search effort,” he said.
 
 Explaining the difference between a crash and crashlanding, a Coast Guard official said, “When you crash, the aircraft becomes scrap; there is severe damage to the airframe and possible loss of life. In this case, they landed on a rocky beach which caused some damage to the helicopter, but all vital machinery was intact. Except for its tail rotor, the other rotors did not suffer damage. Also, no part has broken except the right wheel area. Helicopters are designed to land at places that do not have a tarmac.”
 
