SURAT: Adding to the worry of diamantaires in Surat, the global rough   is forecast to contract by 3.4% in 2018, resulting in an increase of prices by almost 3-4 per cent.

 This has been observed by world’s leading independent diamond industry analyst Paul Zimnisky. Zimnisky has opined that of the world’s top three diamond miners by volume, only   is expected to increase production this year, while the diamond output at Russia’s Alrosa and diversified major Rio Tinto is estimated to decline, more than offsetting De Beers’ increase. 
 
 Zimnisky stated that the anticipated decline in global diamond production in 2018 along with producer inventories at multi-year lows, a demand increase should allow for diamond price upside. A 2-4% increase in diamond demand is quite possible this year given the backdrop of a strong global economy, healthy US consumer sentiment, signs of a stronger Mainland Chinese market and the   (DPA) increased generic marketing budget fuelling the return of generic diamond marketing. 
 
 This scenario, he says, could translate to a real 3-5 per cent increase in rough and polished prices this year. Through the end of February, the impact of these fundamentals have already been evident as rough prices are up by approximately 1.0 per cent year-to-date according to the Zimnisky Global Rough Diamond Price Index and surveyed polished prices up 0.5 per cent. 
 
 Zimnisky told TOI, “The unfolding story of a banking fraud in India involving at least two large industry players in the manufacturing and retail business will likely have a negative impact all segments of the industry. Concerns range from damaged consumer perception of diamond jewellery, primarily in India, to strained financing availability in the Indian diamond manufacturing industry. The later will likely directly impact demand for rough in the short-term.”
 
 “The reduction in global   and increase in prices is the real cause of worry for the diamond manufacturers. The Indian banks have been tightening their noose around the borrowers in diamond industry, which is again going to impact the industry. The council is well aware of the damages and we are trying to establish contact with the bankers for adopting soft approach towards the existing customers,” regional chairman of gems and jewellery export promotion council (GJEPC)   said.
 
 
