GURUGRAM: A 28-year-old man has been booked for allegedly sedating and raping a 27-year-old woman in   on Saturday. 

 Police said the woman, who works at a dental clinic in Delhi, filed a case against Aakash Singh at Badshapur police station on Sundaym alleging that Singh had sedated and raped her after she met him at a restaurant at his invitation. 
 
 “I considered Aakash to be a good friend till he showed his ugly side. On Saturday, he called me to meet him at a restaurant where he claimed that he was feeling unwell. 
 
 “He asked me to accompany him to his flat in Sector 68 and promised to drop me back home after some time. Not suspecting any ill motive I accompanied him to his flat,” the woman claimed.
 
 “Just as we entered his house, he locked the door and snatched my mobile phone from my hand. He dragged me to his room and started misbehaving with me. I was shocked to see him do these things with me and started crying. When I begged him to let me go, his behaviour changed again. He apologised and gave me a glass of cold drink,” the woman alleged in her complaint. 
 
 “I started feeling uneasy and soon lost consciousness. When I regained consciousness, I realised that he had raped me and clicked my nude pictures,” the woman told cops in her report.
 
 When the survivor threatened to report the case to the police, Aakash warned her and said that he would then upload her nude pictures online. The woman returned home and after thinking all night approached the cops on Sunday.
 
 An FIR was filed against the accused under sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural sex), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at Badshapur police station and the survivor was sent for medical examination that confirmed  . 
 
 “The accused works with a private company. We found his residence locked and he is absconding. We are conducting raids at several places and will soon arrest him,” said sub-inspector Naresh Kumar, additional SHO of Badshapur police station. 
 
 
