CHANDIGARH: Think twice before giving a complaint to the UT police if you witness a suspicious or an unlawful activity. For, the cops may reveal your identity in front of the offenders, putting you at a risk of revenge attacks. 

 In a number of recent instances, cops, who were called on   of wrong parking or playing music beyond permissible hours, revealed the identities of complainants in front of the offenders. And in some cases, complainants were also harassed, as the cops, instead of solving the matter, started grilling them.
 
 In one such case, a Sector 30 resident complained against his neighbour for playing music after the permissible time limit. Thereafter, the complainant’s SUV was vandalised twice and no FIR was registered. Complainant  , a tutor, said around two months ago he called up at 100 number and informed that music was playing at high volume beyond 10pm. A PCR van reached in few minutes and cops entered his house to know who made the call and took him to offender’s place. He said his identity was revealed before his neighbour, who vandalised his SUV twice after the complaint.
 
 In another incident, a city resident complained to the police that somebody wrongly parked a car and blocked the lot in Sector 8. The resident, who doesn’t want to be identified, called up on 100. PCR cops reached the spot and found out the offender and started taking down the complainant’s name, address and other details in front of the accused.
 
 Thanks to the cops, the offender now knows me, my car number and my workplace. He can harm me or damage my vehicle. When I asked cops to be discreet, they dismissed my concern saying, ‘Aisa nahin hota’,” said the resident.
 
 Sources in the police said, “PCR cops have not been briefed about keeping the identity of a complainant a secret.”
 
 Ajay Jagga, a legal expert, said police cannot divulge the identity of a complainant in any circumstances. “There is an apex court’s ruling that states that in order to make more complainants come forward and intimate police about criminal activities in their areas, their identities must not be revealed before the offenders. Job of the police is to maintain peace and harmony in society,” he said.
 
 Parmod Kumar, director, Institute of Development and Communication, said, “Police should not reveal the identity of a complainant before the other party, as this can create problems. Besides, nobody will report anything to the police out of fear.”
 
 Akshat Mehta from Centre for Police Administration, Panjab University, said, “If police reveal the identity of a complainant, nobody will dare to report the matter. Maintaining the secrecy of an informer is important.”
 
 
 
