BENGALURU: The   late on Wednesday night trashed Governor Vajubhai Vala’s invite to the   to form the government in  , calling it a murder of democracy.

 
 “The BJP and Governor of Karnataka have murdered democracy and used the law for their personal gains. They will definitely be punished for this by the people of Karnataka. The truth shall triumph,” the party tweeted, adding: “This illegal encounter of law and justice will not stand the scrutiny of the Constitution or the scrutiny of the people of Karnataka.”
 
 Earlier in the evening, not taking any chances, the Congress had shifted its MLAs to a resort in Bidadi, about 30km south of Bengaluru. JD(S) is hosting its folk at a five-star hotel close to Raj Bhavan.
 
 Janata Dal (Secular) state president   said that efforts to poach their MLAs would “backfire as there are people who are willing to leave the BJP to support us (JD-S)”. He also alleged that he himself had been approached by the BJP to join hands to form the government.
 
 Rajya Sabha Congress MP Ghulam Nabi Azad, at the CLP meeting, is reported to have brought up the issue of BJP trying to lure the party MLAs and asked those who had been approached to raise their hands. Immediately, a couple of hands went up, party sources said. Azad also urged the party MLAs to bury their personal differences with the JD(S), keeping the party’s interest in mind.
 
 BJP leader Prakash Javadekar refuted Kumaraswamy’s charge that BJP was offering his MLAs Rs 100-crore bribe, saying: “The Rs 100-crore figure is not only imaginary but is what Congress-JD(S) do politics through… We are going by rules. We have submitted our claim to the governor. We are confident of forming the government.”
 
 Wednesday, predictably, saw hectic activity right from the morning, all centered within a 2km radius of the Raj Bhavan. The action shifted from one five-star hotel on Tuesday night to another, with JD(S) supporters swarming the place as their leaders arrived to hold discussions.
 
 According to sources, the real action was at JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda’s house – which saw homas and pujas being held through the morning – as the former PM was the one strategising about getting his son on to the chief ministerial gaddi. Kumaraswamy and his brother HD Revanna – with whom the former has had tensions – put up a united front.
 
 In the morning, Yeddyurappa, soon after being elected legislative party chief, drove to Raj Bhavan and requested the governor to invite BJP to form the government “as early as possible”, listing the party’s 104 MLAs.   said he would be sworn in on Thursday morning.
 
 In the afternoon, JD(S) and Congress leaders, too, met the governor with a similar demand after submitting their joint list of MLAs.
 
