NEW DELHI:   leader and former Union minister Jagdish   has kicked up a storm by claiming in an   that   had taken   of   during the   to   the  . Tytler was quoted by News18 as saying that Rajiv was in his car and was extremely anguished. He asked party MPs to go to their constituencies and contain the situation.

 The former deputy chief minister of Punjab, Sukhbir Singh Badal, was quick to pounce on this. “It means that the then Prime Minister was supervising the killings,” he alleged. “CBI must look into it. It is a very serious issue,” he was quoted as saying. “What was the need for the PM to drive himself at that time...because he wanted to take revenge...that is why he went around supervising the killings." 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Tytler said he had made a “harmless” comment that was being deliberately misinterpreted and twisted to damage his reputation. “The allegations are absolutely false. Rajiv Gandhi had nothing to do with the situation. We were all concerned over the violence and he had in fact asked all of us to go to our constituencies to check the situation,” he reiterated.
 
 The former MP has been under a cloud because of allegations that he had himself participated in the rioting. However, no charges have been proved against him after several inquiries. The riots had broken out in the wake of the assassination of then PM Indira Gandhi in 1984.
 
 Meanwhile, senior lawyer H S Phoolka also called for further investigations into the alleged role of Rajiv Gandhi. In a press release, Phoolka alleged that Tytler’s interview had established that Rajiv Gandhi had supervised the slaughter of Sikhs.
 
 Tytler had said in his interview that Rajiv Gandhi himself drove an Ambassador car – with just one security guard – and went Mukherjee Nagar and Azadpur Mandi, and then towards west Delhi.
 
 “This fact has been disclosed for the first time -- that on November, 1, 1984, Rajiv Gandhi, the then Prime Minister, was himself on the roads of Delhi. The areas which, according to Tytler, Rajiv Gandhi visited fall in the jurisdiction of the police stations of Kingsway Camp, Sabzi Mandi, Ashok Vihar and Adarsh Nagar. At the time of his visit, records show that the killing of Sikhs and looting and burning of their properties was in full swing,” Phoolka alleged. He said this fact had not been brought to the notice of any commission of inquiry. 
 
 He said the organisation of victims now planned to “take up with the present government reopening of the whole issue in view of the new revelations and either appoint a fresh commission of inquiry or hand over the investigations to the new SIT appointed by Supreme Court.”
 
