BHOPAL: Vehicle owners better act fast to get pollution under control (PUC) certificate to avoid last-minute rush as centres checking emission levels are less in proportion to number of vehicles. From June onwards, insurance of new vehicle or renewal of old ones won’t be possible without   certificate.

 Making PUC mandatory for insurance is in line with the road transport ministry asking the   ( ) to direct all companies not to issue or renew insurance of vehicles unless they have ‘pollution under control’ (PUC) certificate.
 
 Insurance authorities in the state confirmed all insurance firms should comply with orders by June 15. Letter issued by the Union ministry on Tuesday said, “The Supreme Court directed vide its order dated August 10, 2017 that insurance companies will not insure a vehicle unless it has a valid PUC certificate on date of the renewal of the policy. It
 
 may further be noted fitness certificate is also a mandatory requirement for all valid registered transport vehicles.”
 
 The ministry also asked the IRDA to direct companies to submit their compliance report by June 15. New India Assurance divisional manager   confirmed it would be mandatory for all insurance companies now not to issue new policy or renew a vehicle policy without PUC certificate.
 
 Officials believe making PUC mandatory for insurance would help check pollution level as insurance of vehicles is a must and everyone get vehicles insured.
 
 In the absence of strict enforcement, polluting vehicles in big cities of the state, including the state capital, escape tough action. Only 27 people were fined for pollution in Bhopal in 2017 against a total of over 15 lakh registered vehicles.
 
 There are just 40 PUC centres in Bhopal and any change in the number looks unlikely. Regional transport officer   says, “There is no plan to increase number of PUC centres in the city. We also carry out a drive against vehicles creating pollution above permissible limits with officials of   (MPPCB).”
 
