Though authorities affirm that   has done relatively done well in the National Achievement Survey conducted by   across every district in the country, it has also highlighted some gaping holes in the education system.

 One of the national trends that is also reflected in Kerala is the decline in the academic capabilities of students as they reach higher classes. The survey in government and aided schools found that in Mathematics, Class III students in Kerala averaged 71.32%. As they reached Class V this climbed down to 68.60% before dropping to 49.79% in Class VIII.
 
  
  
 
 A similar, yet less drastic decline was also identified in language, which was the other subject surveyed across class III, V, and VIII. Here the students averaged 72.32% in Class III, which dropped to 68.6% and 63.27% respectively in class V and VIII.
 
 
 Dr J Prasad, director,   council of educational research and training (SCERT) said Kerala has fared better than other states but the results indicate a significant decline in the academic ability of students in Mathematics and that the department is currently working to identify the causes.
 
 
 Educationist P K   said, “The survey indicates that the students are unable to completely understand concepts that are being taught in classrooms. It is only in higher classes that these computational concepts are applied and hence students are not able to produce results.”
 
 
 Among districts, Thiruvananthapuram has fared better in the survey by scoring higher averages in all the nine subjects surveyed across three grades.
 
 
 At the national level, which covered 2.2 million students from 1,10, 000 schools across 701 districts in 29 states and seven Union Territories, Thiruvananthapuram stood second highest in Language in Class III and highest in Class V. But it drops to the 33rd highest average in Class VIII. The performance average of Kerala dropped 8.5% in language and 21.5% in Mathematics. And among districts in Kerala, Palakkad has scored the lowest in more subjects than the rest.
 
 
 “Thiruvananthapuram is slowly transforming into an educational hub. One of the reasons why Thiruvananthapuram does well in education surveys is because parents are very invested in it, mostly because they are all employed, unlike districts like Palakkad. They have a perception that the lives of their child will only be secure if they are able to do well academically. The downside is that this adds a lot of pressure on the student,” said K V Mohankumar, director of public instruction. Furthermore, during the survey, it was identified that in many cases, students studying in rural areas are also performing better in the academics when compared to their urban counterparts, with Pathanamthitta, Thiruvananthapuram, and   being an exception this.
 
 
 “The fact that rural students are doing better than students living in cities is not very surprising. In rural areas, teachers are more involved with the student because they usually live in the same area. The teachers know the background of the student and they are able to cater to them better because of it,” said Ravindran.
 
