Bengaluru: In a bid to attract voters ahead of assembly  , the   on Thursday announced that the much-awaited   project in Bengaluru will soon become a reality. The suburban rail project, a long-pending demand of working professionals heading towards the tech-corridors of Whitefield and Electronics City, has been in the pipeline since the 1990s. It is being seen as a much-needed remedy for the gridlocked city.

 Union railway minister Piyush Goyal told reporters at the BJP headquarters here: “A comprehensive plan pertaining to the Rs 12,000-crore suburban railway project for Bengaluru has been readied and will soon be put into action. According to the proposed plan, the network will cover 160km, half of which will be an elevated corridor.”
 
 The minister suggested the Siddaramaiah government emulate the floor space index (FSI) model adopted by Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis with regard to developing suburban rail stations. FSI is the ratio that determines how much can be built on a plot.
 
 “Currently, the cost sharing between state governments and railways is 80:20 with the state bearing 80% of the cost,” Goyal said. “But if the state government clears an FSI of 5, the cost-sharing can be converted 50:50 and the project can be fast-tracked.” He said the project is currently before the finance ministry and the Railway Board.
 
 Union minister Ananth Kumar said state BJP leaders have been pressing for the suburban rail network for Bengaluru since 1996. “We require a rail transport system on the lines of Mumbai,” he said. “Bengaluru has seven radials (including routes leading to Tumakuru, Mysuru, Yelahanka and Bangarapet) and these should be connected. We are confident that the prime minister will approve the suburban rail project, which will have a ridership of 35 lakh persons per day.”
 
 Sources in the state BJP said they are hopeful that an announcement pertaining to suburban rail will be made in the forthcoming Union budget. They believe this will help consolidate the party’s votebank in Bengaluru, which has 28 assembly constituencies. Currently, the BJP holds 13 seats in Bengaluru.
 
 
