Vadodara: It is not just the controversial artist Chandra Mohan who is waiting for his degree or professor Shivaji Panikkar, the suspended teacher whose pending dues are yet to be cleared by M S University after the ‘obscenity row’ rocked the university campus 11 years back.  Students of the famed Faculty of Fine Arts are also waiting for the university officials and the police department to unlock the sealed room at the faculty in which the alleged obscene art works of Chandra Mohan are gathering dust. At a time when the faculty is battling for space for its generation next of students for whom all but studio space matters, monkeys are the only ones who can freely move in and out of this sealed room which houses the paintings of Jesus and Goddess Durga depicted in ‘obscene’ manner. The art works considered to be crucial “evidence” in the alleged crime of hurting religious sentiments may have also got damaged with time as many students and faculty members have noticed monkeys coming out from the windows with pieces of what they say seem to be part of canvas.  The room located on the right side of the fine arts library was sealed by the then university officials on directions of cops on May 9, 2007 after Niraj Jain, who was then with the BJP, objected to Chandra Mohan’s art works while the evaluation of works of final year students was underway.  “Since then, every being except human beings have been able to move in and out of this room. We don’t know how and when did the windows of this room opened. But nobody dares to open this room and shut the windows that can be locked only from inside,” said a teacher of the faculty.  Since the row, deans have changed at the faculty and so have the vice-chancellors (VC) at MSU. Each dean have made requests to subsequent VCs to get this sealed room cleared so that the space can be used again for the students.  “Ours is a discipline where students require more space to work. Nowadays getting space has become difficult as young ambitious artist are working on larger art works and need to have more studio space. This room was earlier used as a studio space before it got sealed. I have requested the VC to help us is getting this room unlocked,” said faculty dean Vijay Bagodi, admitting that some of the art works might have also got damaged over the time due to change in weather. 