Surat: It is high time that the Gujarat Government notified a tower policy which is aligned with Right of Way (RoW) rules issued by the Central Government to ensure seamless tower installation across the state, particularly in the Diamond City. This is because there is lot of anger among a certain section of people in the city against installation of towers by mobile operators.  This was observed by senior deputy director general (DDG), Gujarat LSA, department of telecommunication (DoT), Government of India, AK Tiwari during an awareness programme organized in the city on electromagnetic field (EMF) emissions and telecom towers by the Ministry of Communications on Tuesday. Tiwari said the state government must also think in the direction of forming state and district-level committees for faster approval of NoCs for tower installation and help the department in dispelling misconception among the public about mobile towers.  “This is first time that Gujarat LSA, department of telecommunication organized an awareness programme on EMF emissions and telecom towers in Gujarat, that too in Surat. Diamond City is lagging behind other centres when it comes to mobile tower installations. Misconception with regard to health hazards among people is blocking seamless installation of towers,” said Tiwari.  He added, “We need to double the presence of mobile towers in Surat. The department has recommended to the state government to implement the Right of Way rules, which are still pending.” Municipal commissioner M Thennarasan said, “The department of telecommunication needs to take up a social media campaign to dispel misconception about health hazards due to mobile towers. We get complaints from denizens against mobile towers every now and then. The task of approving mobile towers becomes difficult when people are unwilling.”  Tiwari informed that the DoT had cracked down on mobile operators across India and imposed a penalty of Rs10 lakh on them on finding that their towers were emitting radiation beyond the permissible limits. At least 288 such cases have been found until now.  “If mobile users or general public in any particular area want to check the radiation level, they can visit our website tarangsanchar.gov.in. People would be able to get real-time radiation level data of a particular cell tower in their vicinity,” said Tiwari. A mobile operator said, “We are facing a lot a difficulties in getting no-objection certification from municipal corporation for tower installation due to protests by residents. On one hand, people want seamless connectivity and on the other, they do not want towers?”