VISAKHAPATNAM: Thunderstorms lashed the city on Monday evening, with denizens welcoming the respite from the hot and sultry weather. However, their joy was short-lived as strong winds briefly knocked out the power supply in the city.

 Officials from the   (IMD) said such thunderstorms are common during this time of the year - a precursor to hot and sultry days ahead. These sudden bursts of rain can often affect power supply and damage electrical appliances, say officials.
 
 The AP Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) said pre-monsoon weather conditions like thunderstorms and whirling winds can affect equipment like transformers, electrical wires, and utility poles.
 
 “Winds can cause branches of trees to come into contact with electricity lines while severe rains can cause flooding, thus damaging underground electrical installations. This can result in interruptions to the electricity supply to consumers of all categories like domestic and commercial and even agriculture,” said TV Surya Prakash, superintending engineer, APEPDCL’s Vizag circle.
 
 A senior APEPDCL official from the technical department said severe weather like thunderstorms poses risk in the form of power surges and spikes cause by lightning strikes hitting the electrical grid.
 
 “Power interruptions due to the thunderstorms can even damage electrical appliances like TVs, fans and personal computers due to sudden bursts of high-voltage or short-circuits. Sometimes, the power will flicker on and off multiple times during such storms,” the discom official said.
 
 Prakash said that on last Saturday, entire Vizag city suffered a blackout for nearly two to three hours due to thunderstorms and the department had to cut off power supply several times as a preventive measure.
 
 “There will be a shortfall in power supply of nearly five lakh units to the consumers in the city on an average during such bad weather. This could result in a revenue loss of nearly Rs 50 lakh on an average,” Prakash told TOI. He said there would be no major damage to equipment unless there is heavy wind or natural calamities like cyclones.
 
 According to the IMD officials, the thunderstorms arrive in spring and summer months like April and May and remain till onset of the southwest monsoon in June.
 
 “North-coastal Andhra districts like   are mostly affected by these pre-monsoon or summer weather conditions,” said Dr K Naga Ratna, director, IMD.
 
 
