Kolkata: Will political parties give peace a chance in   and Noapara on Monday? The question is gaining traction among voters in the two constituencies that go to bypolls on January 29. 

 The Election Commission announced bypolls for the Uluberia Lok Sabha constituency and the Noapara assembly seat after they fell vacant following the demise of Trinamool MP Sultan Ahmed and Congress MLA Madhusudan Ghosh, respectively. Both constituencies have passed through phases strong enough to influence voters. 
 
 Uluberia suffered communal clashes in December 2016 at Dhulagori, just outside the constituency. Uluberia north is home to Tehatta High School that witnessed a row over organising Saraswati Puja. The constituency also witnessed violence over a Wakf property in which a police officer was beaten up by warring groups. All these have come in handy for BJP leaders, who are optimistic about a change in fortunes at least in this Lok Sabha seat.
 
 These elements were not present when Uluberia last went to Lok Sabha polls in 2014. The campaign, therefore, was a little different this time with BJP aiming at a polarisation of Hindu voters to come second, if not first in the race, leaving behind CPM. 
 
 Trinamool, on the other hand, is banking on the Mamata Banerjee government’s development work and the minority vote bank. The campaign on community lines may take away a chunk of minority votes with CPM and Congress. Equations have changed in Noapara as Congress and CPM are fighting independently this time as against the CPM-Congress ‘jote’ in 2016. In fact, alliance candidate Madhusudan Ghosh had defeated Trinamool’s Manju Basu by a slender margin. 
 
 Trinamool is facing a quadrangular fight in the assembly bypolls that goes to its advantage with Congress, CPM and BJP fielding their own candidates. 
 
 Noapara has a mixed population with Hindi-speaking people residing in areas under Garulia and North Barrackpore municipality and a Bengali middle-class population in areas under Barrackpore Cantt, Mohanpur and Sheuli gram panchayat adjoining Barrackpore. 
 
 Trinamool leader and strongman Arjun Singh and his relative Sunil Singh, the Trinamool candidate, has a command over Garulia municipality, that is a minus point for BJP. Add to this the drama over nomination and former Trinamool MLA Manju Basu’s backing out at the last moment, which seems to have gone against the party. CPM isn’t a dead horse in this constituency. Its candidate Gargi Chatterjee is reaching out to households in a bid to rally her voters to polling booths.
 
 The bypolls are an acid test for Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee, who has been leading the campaign. The CM didn’t go to campaign in these constituencies. Instead, Abhishek led Trinamool rallies at Noapara and Uluberia along with others while BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and BJP leader Mukul Roy concentrated on Uluberia.
 
 
