HYDERABAD: The spike in school fee has emerged as a business model for some finance companies in the city that are now seen extending loans to cash-strapped parents, on easy monthly instalments. If that’s not all, these firms are also tying up with schools across Hyderabad to reach out to a larger section of parents and make these transactions smooth.

 At present, the annual fee in the city’s private schools range from Rs 30,000 to Rs 4.5 lakh.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 When this TOI correspondent called one such finance company, posing a as a parent seeking loan of Rs 2 lakh, its representatives were only to glad to help and informed the caller that the interest rate varies per term.
 
 “For three terms, the interest rate is four per cent while for two terms, it is six per cent. An additional two per cent of processing fee will also be charged on the loan,” explained the sales executive, adding that the company also has a monthly instalment option. Parents can repay the amount within three to 10 months, the executive said.
 
 In fact, many such companies have also signed a memorandum of understanding with the managements of various schools so as to ensure that the loan sought by parents is directly transferred to the school’s account.
 
 Experts attributed the latest lending trend to school education becoming more expensive than professional courses and said how previously, educational loans were limited to higher education. But the   coupled with the fact that most schools seek an upfront annual payment, has pushed parents towards borrowing.
 
 “The rising school fee has encouraged such a market to dwell in the city. While some parents may seek loans from finance companies, others approach money-lenders and their employers to pay the annual fee. It’s about time the Telangana government regulated the fee,” said  , executive member of Hyderabad  .
 
 Apart from school fee, finance companies are also offering loans for pre-school admissions, coaching, and vocational and skill development courses, sources said.
 
