JAIPUR: As we step into the New Year, the very first month itself kicks off with a bang – Prime Minister   landing at Pachpadra on January 14, the proposed refinery site near Barmer, to lay the foundation stone for the Rs 43,129 crore project. Rajasthan could not have found a better way to start the year because this is going to be the biggest investment project in the state and more importantly, the prime minister doing the ground-breaking lends some credibility to the politically mired project as he has already said that he not only launches but also complete projects.

 More than four years have passed since the then   president   came to Pachpadra in September 2013 and laid the foundation stone for the project but there has been no development on the ground. This time around, chief minister   is also re-enacting a similar script what her Congress predecessor did – by launching the project in the last year of her tenure.
 
 The political import of this is not lost on the people who are now far from being upbeat, reflecting their tempered sentiment. Even after so many announcements by the Raje government with regard to implementation of the project, the locals are still sceptic. After the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government announced the project at Pachpadra, outsiders from Jaipur, Delhi, Mumbai flocked to the little-known tehsil headquarters to buy big chunks of land jacking up prices by up to 1000%. But there is no such activity now, which very much points to the disenchantment of people with the project.
 
 However,   has become more forthcoming in its plans after signing the revised MoU with the state government. In the recent investors meets, the public sector utility has talked about the Barmer refinery as part of its plan to expand refining capacity. Secondly, HRRL, the Joint venture company between HPCL and Rajasthan government, which will be implementing the project, has recently received its first round of equity contribution.
 
 In the board meeting of HPCL Rajasthan Refinery Ltd (HRRL) held on October 6, it was decided that the Rajasthan government will contribute Rs 44 crore for its 26% stake in the refinery while HPCL’s equity participation will be Rs 126 crore for its 74% holding. HRRL board also passed the 2017-18 budget earmarking an expenditure of Rs 90 crore. Additionally, the project has now received all approvals including environmental clearance.
 
 All these developments might have lifted some gloom over the project but people feel when it comes to Pachpadra refinery, seeing is believing. Hope, Pachpadra does not become a graveyard of foundation stones, which the chief minister herself once referred to.
 
