LUDHIANA: Residents of Giaspura flats took to streets on Friday to protest against the state government, the police and the municipal corporation for not providing the promised free treatment to the teenager who received electric shock during an eviction drive a day before. The police lathi-charged the agitators at Delhi national highway, near Apollo Hospital. The police did not even spare the women protesters, who were lathi-charged by the male cops.

 While refuting absence of women cops, the police said they had to use force as protesters wanted to block traffic at Delhi road and the Sada-e-Sarhad bus from Delhi to Lahore was also to cross from there.
 
 Residents took out the protest march around 10am and proceeded towards the office of ADCP Sandeep Sharma in Sherpur Chowk. They wanted to meet him and ask him why teenager Sunny was not attended to by the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) when they were told that treatment would be free. They claimed that DMCH kept on asking for money and when the family could not deposit it, Sunny was sent to the civil hospital. From there, he was referred to PGI, Chandigarh.
 
 One of the protesters said when they reached near Apollo Hospital, cops stopped them. “Since we came walking from Giaspura, some of us sat down on the road. As there were a large number of people, the road got plugged. Cops charged ahead from Sherpur Chowk and started beating us up. We were not even given a chance to say anything and forced to run away to save our lives,” he said. 
 
 Davinder Singh, a passerby who was having breakfast at a kiosk, also faced police lathis. He said he had nothing to do with the protest and many others like him bore the brunt of the khaki ire.
 
 A leader from Giaspura, Bhopal Singh, said many of them have received injuries and some, especially children between 8 and 10 years of age, were missing. He said their intention was not wrong and they just wanted to talk to ADCP Sandeep Sharma, but nobody heard them. He said now they were worried about their family members because cops were taking rounds of Giaspura flats to make arrests. 
 
 ADCP Sandeep Sharma denied all allegations and said women cops were present at the site. He said they would register an FIR against the protesters for blocking the national highway. “Cops had to use force for dispersing the mob because Sada-e-Sarhad bus was to cross the road in a few minutes,” the ADCP added.
 
 The police also added Section 307 (attempt to murder) to the FIR registered against 250 unidentified men and women on the statement of MC executive engineer Karamjit Singh, who was allegedly thrashed by protesters. On Thursday, the FIR was registered under sections 353, 186, 506, 427, 148 and 149 of the IPC for causing hurt and obstructing public servant from duty, causing intimidation and causing damage.
 
 On Thursday, Sunny, 19, had climbed a transformer pole and was threatening to touch the wires in case the MC did not stop its eviction drive in Giaspura. He lost balance and fell down after touching the high-tension wires. He was rushed to hospital, but enraged people allegedly threw bricks on the MC team and thrashed the executive engineer. 
 
 DMCH medical superintendent Dr Sandeep Sharma denied the allegations. “The hospital had started the patient’s treatment immediately. Initially, there was nobody with him. Later, some people came and said they would get him admitted to civil hospital. And so, the patient was discharged. The hospital does not deny treatment to anybody,” he said. 
 
 Expressing ignorance about the “hospital denying treatment to the teenager”, MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said they had asked the DMCH authorities to immediately treat the injured. 
 
 
