Nagpur: Three family-oriented dramas marked the opening day of the two-day Vidarbha level inter-circle Natya Spardha on M onday. The competition has been organized by and for the employees of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) at Scientific Society Hall.

 Plays ‘Kahi Savalyanche Khel’, ‘Adhantar’ and Ek Kshan Ayushacha’ were showcased on the first day. The competition was jointly inaugurated by executive director (Mumbai) Prasad Rashme and regional director (Nagpur) Bhalchandra Khandait.
 
 ‘Kahi’, the first of the contenders, depicted the life struggles of an elderly married couple (Vinayak and Sulochana) whose two children (Bhaskar and Abha) have not been in touch since few years after they migrated abroad post their respective marriages. Their mother is troubled the most by lack of communication while the father tries helping her come out of grief.
 
 The play begins with Sulochana writing a letter to her son who has been living in the US for three years. She keeps writing letters to Bhaskar despite him not replying to any. Even as Vinayak reasons with his wife, trying to stop her yearning for their son’s reply, the love for her son becomes overwhelming.
 
 Meanwhile, the couple’s old friend Laxman visits their home and talks to them about his life and explains the difficulties of providing for his family on daily wages. Sulochana then receives a letter from her son who asks her to come to his home and spend time with his family. But the mother declines the invitation.
 
 Laxman and Vinayak discuss the marriage of the former’s daughter. Then Abha, who’s pregnant, sends a letter asking Sulochana to come to Australia to help with post-natal care. Vinayak agrees to send his wife because their daughter is in need for her parents. But Sulochana later realizes that her wanting to visit Abha is her being greedy and cancels at the last moment.
 
 The second play ‘Adhantar’ based on the life of family in Mumbai which is unclear about its future when the state-run mills were closing down. The mother is flustered as she lives with her three sons who are unable to progress in life due to lack of opportunity. The eldest son is a gangster, the second is a writer and the youngest is unemployed but a huge cricket fan.
 
 The politics that ensued during the closure of the mills rendered many labourers out of a job. The play’s director Sushil Sahare said, “A vegetable basket in the scenes was symbolic of the situation of the family which portrayed the plight of the laid-off labourers. Their lives were just hanging in the balance with no clear direction to go.”
 
 
