BHOPAL: In a heart-wrenching incident, a toddler was mauled to death by eight-to-10 stray dogs less than 50 feet away from his house in a densely populated area of the capital on Thursday morning.

 The two-year-old child was playing near his house in Dhar Gali in Gautam Nagar locality when the pack of dogs attacked him and dragged him into a nullah. By the time a neighbour spotted the horror and shooed away the dogs, the baby was bitten over 250 times. The injured boy was rushed to hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.
 
 The kin and local residents alleged that there are more than 200 stray dogs in the locality which attack children and passer bys on a regular basis. Complaints to Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) have failed to get any positive results.
 
 SHO Gautam Nagar police station Mukhtar Qureshi said that dead boy was identified as Sheikh Raza, son of Sheikh Imran, a resident of Dhar Gali in Krishna Colony near PGBT College. His father Sheikh Imran runs a business of sharpening the knives. Sheikh Imran has another child Sana, 3 who is elder to Raza..
 
 Grandfather of the deceased kid Sheikh Abbas told police that Sheikh Raza was playing near the house after having tea in the morning. While playing in the narrow lanes he went near the nullah.There were some stray dogs sitting on a heap of garbage beside the nullah and one of the dogs barked on Raza and the others suddenly attacked him. They grabbed his leg and dragged him in to the dry nullah. The boy cried for help but nobody was present. He received severe wounds on his abdomen and face.
 
 A neighbour Abdul Rafiq Khan, looked through the window hearing the boy’s cries and spotted the dogs attacking the boy and rushed to rescue him. He struggled to shoo away the dogs and then called the Raza’s family members. The kin and locals rushed Raza to Kamla Nehru hospital in critical condition where the doctors declared him brought dead.
 
 SHO Qureshi said that soon after getting information about the incident senior police officers including ASP (Zone-III) Rajesh Singh Bhadouria, CSP Hanumanganj Gladwin Carr along with SDM Bairagarh Pradeep Sharma and local MLA Arif Aqueel reached the spot and met the family members of the deceased. The locals and family members complained about the lax attitude of BMC officials to the officers and MLA Aqeel for not taking action on stray dog menace in the area despite several complaints.
 
 Another resident Munne Khan said, “We have made several complaints with BMC officials, but no action has been taken so far.” SHO Qureshi said that SDM Sharma announced an ex-gratia relief of Rs 10,000 to be given to the grieved family.
 
