SURAT: Navsari memebr of Parliament C R Paatil has stated that   will get   notified status in the next one week. 

 Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Paatil stated that a strong representation was made to the civil aviation ministry and the   ( ) about limited international operations from Surat airport. The civil aviation ministry has stated that the customs notified status for Surat airport will be issued in the next one week. 
 
 “We have been told by the AAI and the civil aviation ministry officials that the customs notified status for Surat airport is likely to be given in the next one week. With this, Surat airport will have international flight operations,” Paatil said.
 
 Last month, senior officials from the central government’s bureau of immigration, customs, finance and civil aviation departments visited Surat airport for checking the modifications, documentations and related infrastructure for providing customs notified status for limited international operations.
 
 A senior official of AAI said, “The officials inspected terminal area, runway and checked other infrastructure at the airport. They also checked documents related to runway expansion and DGCA’s approval for displacement of 615 metre runway due to obstruction in the funnel. The meeting was held amid positive atmosphere and hopefully things will move in a week or two.”
 
 He added, “The officials have inspected everything required for the customs notified status and the report will be submitted to the civil aviation ministry and the CBEC for a final decision.”
 
 Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel had earmarked Rs 1 crore in the budget for setting up of immigration facilities at Surat airport. It was on September 20, 2017, that the home department of   government had asked the DGP to allot 68 immigration staff for the airport in the financial year 2018-19.
 
 It’s almost more than one-and-a-half-year that the customs notified status for Surat airport was put on the back burner. AAI had proposed the CBEC to approve customs facilities at the airport in November 2016. Earlier, Air India Express had shown its willingness to operate direct flights between Surat and Dubai, provided the airport got the requisite customs and immigration facilities.
 
 
