LUCKNOW: Dacoits are striking at will in Lucknow district and seem to have just no fear of police. Just two days after striking at two houses of   in   area on Thursday night, armed dacoits struck at Baniyakheda and Katauli villages in Kakori on Saturday night and killed the 22-year-old son of a gram pradhan besides injuring four others. 

 The dacoits targeted the house of a former gram pradhan in one village and that of a current gram pradhan in the other. 
 
 In spite of the crackdown on criminals in the state since the change of regime last year, dacoits seem to be having a field day and are challenging the might of Lucknow police.
 
 Moreover, the victim family said that police arrived at the spot during the dacoity but did not challenge the criminals following which SSP Lucknow   suspended SO  .
 
 PRO SSP   has been given the charge of SO Kakori.
 
 SP (rural)   said that dacoits stormed the house of Jagat Pal, former pradhan of Baniyakheda village, at around 2am and injured him and his two family members.
 
 In his statement to police, Jagat Pal said, "I was sleeping when I heard knocking on the door. As soon as I opened the door, seven masked and armed dacoits barged in. They thrashed me brutally and looted cash and jewellery."
 
 
 
 
 The dacoits opened fire in the air and continued their looting spree for over 30 minutes before fleeing.
 
 The dacoits then struck at Katauli village, just 500 metres away from Baniyakheda village where they attacked the house of current gram pradhan Harishanker Yadav. However, when the door was not opened they shot dead
 
 pradhan’s son Abhishek Yadav and barged in while firing in air. The dacoits looted jewellery and cash and brutally thrashed family members who tried to confront them.
 
 The injured were identified as Lalla Yadav (22), and Ram Shanker (36).
 
 Gram pradhan Harishanker Yadav alleged that they informed police and the dacoity took place right in front of the police response vehicle.
 
 “A PCR van was present when the dacoits were in his house but they fled without being challenged by cops,” he said. Yadav further told mediapersons that SO Kakori did not respond to calls.
 
 “My son was taken to hospital where he was declared brought dead by a team of doctors,” said Yadav. The four injured are undergoing treatment at KGMU Trauma Centre.
 
 Among senior police officials, SSP Lucknow was the first to reach the spot followed by SP (rural) Satish Kumar. IG (Lucknow range) Jai Narain Singh also visited the spot to take stock of the situation.
 
 Crime branch sleuths and STF personnel also visited the two villages.
 
 SSP Deepak Kumar later constituted a special team to track down the dacoits. Police said a case has been registered and efforts are on to identify the dacoits. Senior officials said that sketches of the Chinhat dacoity suspects will be shown to villagers to verify if the same gang is involved. Mohanlalganj MP Kaushal Kishore also visited the crime scene and said that cops in PCR must be equipped with proper weapons and enough ammunition.
 
 ADG (Lucknow Zone) Abhay Prasad told TOI that a meeting of all SPs and SSP was held in the wake of the dacoity.
 
 
