CHANDIGARH: Besides demanding more involvement in the policy-making process of the government, the   legislators have sought allocation of more funds for developmental works in their areas at a pre-budget meeting chaired by CM   on Thursday.

 A proposal for creation of MLA local area development (LAD) fund was also mooted.
 
 
  
  
 
 Even as Amarinder said as many as 150 promises had been fulfilled in the first year itself, two party Rajya Sabha MPs—Partap Singh Bajwa and Shamsher Singh Dullo-—underlined the need for implementation of certain key points of the party manifesto on priority.
 
 Around 20 of the 72 party MLAs in attendance spoke at the marathon meeting and the rest would give their feedback on March 7. While the elected representatives sought more meetings with the district administration officials in their areas, need for crackdown on various “mafia” and “goonda tax” in their constituency was also highlighted by a section of the MLAs.
 
 The other a suggestion for waiver of debts of theSCs/STs to expediting the implementation of the Shagun scheme, as well as clearance of pending free “atta dal” supplies was also sought.
 
 Meanwhile, Amarinder announced the state government’s decision to set aside Rs 128 crore every month for disbursement of old age pension. He said the distribution of free smart phones to youth would commence this year. He said the March 11 job mela would see employment being provided to 40,000 youth.
 
 It was pointed out that the state government planned to celebrate the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak. Amarinder has written to Prime Minister   for grants for the programme. He had also requested former Prime Minister   to chair the organising committee for the event.
 
 In response to a request for sanctioning Rs 5 crore for the completion of Beant Singh Memorial in Chandigarh, Amarinder said he would take up the matter with the Punjab governor since the project was located in the UT. Punjab Congress president   said the budget should be a low-investment high-impact one, and should present the vision of the government and its roadmap for manifesto implementation.
 
