Ahmedabad/Rajkot: The Ahmedabad crime branch on Monday arrested two persons from Mumbai who had allegedly conspired together to murder Jamnagar’s prominent lawyer Kirit Joshi on April 28.

 Joshi was stabbed to death by two persons outside his office in Jamnagar on the evening of April 28 on the Town Hall Road. He was attacked in full public view by the motorcycle-borne assailants who repeatedly stabbed him when he came out of his office.
 
 Crime branch sleuths nabbed Simon Louis Devendan (42), resident of Vasai east and Ajay Mohanprakash Mehta (38), a resident of Andheri west. 
 
 Joint commissioner of police, J D Bhatt, said the duo had helped the mastermind Jayesh Ranpariya (Patel) contact the contract killers from Mumbai. “Around five accused including Ranpariya are still absconding.” 
 
 Interestingly, Ranpariya had fled to Dubai eight days before the crime on a fake passport and plotted Joshi’s murder from there. Joshi was fighting several cases of land-grabbing lodged against Ranpariya and had exposed a Rs 100-crore land scam, which had riled the latter. This was the prime reason for Ranpariya to eliminate Joshi and send out a message to others who would try to come in his way.
 
 “In fact, Ranpariya was arrested at the Mumbai airport with a fake passport in November last year. He had got the fake passport made in Mumbai after his original one was seized by the Jamnagar police in one of the 27 offences, mostly those of illegal land-grabbing, lodged against him. However, he got this fake passport released through a court order in Mumbai and fled to Dubai on April 20. Mumbai police have now appealed against this court order,” said Bhatt.
 
 Ranpariya was in constant touch with Mehta, a real estate broker, through WhatsApp and asked him to contact some professional killers to eliminate Joshi. He also agreed to pay them Rs 50 lakh. 
 
 “Besides Jamnagar, Ranpariya also operates in Mumbai where he has a driver named Alfred. He is a liquor addict and related to Simon who in turn got them in touch with the contract killers. The duo is still at large,” said Deepan Bhadran, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch.
 
 The money trail that crime branch tracked showed that the killers were given Rs 90,000 as advance and they along with Simon and Mehta stayed in Jamnagar’s Samrat Hotel for two days before the murder.
 
 The arrested accused have been handed over to Jamnagar police.
 
 Ranpariya eyed unused land
 
 Ahmedabad: Jayesh Ranpariya, the prime accused and notorious land-grabber, was eyeing a big plot of land at Eva Park in Jamnagar. The land was valued in crores. Ranpariya made forged documents to grab his land and later the owner had lodged an offence against him. He had a ready team of lawyers, few government officers and goons to grab the land. 
 
 Jamnagar superintendent of police (SP), Pradeep Sejul, said, “Ranpariya used to eye unused land plots. He used to obtain their land records from the revenue department. He used a unique technique to forge the papers. Using a 2,000 volt light and a thick glass, he used to overwrite the land deed documents in his favour. Later, when the civil suit lodged by the original owner dragged for years, Ranpariya used to offer a compromise to extort huge money from them.”
 
 Mobile towers data helped nab duo
 
 Ahmedabad: The crime branch team had procured entire data of all the calls made and received from all mobile towers in the area where Joshi was murdered. During scrutiny, they found two numbers from which several calls were made to Ranpariya. They got the addresses and found that they were from Mumbai residents. A team led by inspectors B P Rozia and V R Malhotra went to Mumbai and nabbed Simon and Mehta.
 
 
