Madurai: Citrine Wagtail, Red-wattle Lapwing and Cotton Pigmy Goose are among the bird species spotted in and around Madurai during Pongal Bird Count held in the city and outskirts from January 14 to 16. As the exercise concluded on Tuesday, bird watchers opined that there were not much of bird activity in the region due to various factors and not many rare species were recorded at the exercise. The annual exercise of counting bird species in and around the locality started in Madurai on Saturday. The exercise named Pongal Bird Count was held for three days when birdwatchers spent their time during holidays watching and documenting bird species in their locality. Various bird watching groups and environmental enthusiasts joined together to visit the water bodies and green avenues in Madurai city and outskirts, especially in morning and evening these days to have a glimpse of the winged beauties in the backyards. Based on the Christmas Bird Count being carried out in West, Tamil Bird Watchers, a group of ornithologists have decided to carry out a bird counting exercise in the state during a festival. Pongal falling in winter season is found ideal as the state receives a good number of migrant birds from Northern hemisphere especially lot many waterfowls come down to the water bodies of Tamil Nadu for breeding. Started in 2015, the event has turned popular among the bird watchers. “Birds are indicators of the environment. Observing their activity and movement it helps us to study through our local environment. If there is sudden migration or disappearance of birds, it means something is wrong in the local eco-system”, explained Dr T Badrinarayanan, an ornithologist in Madurai and ophthalmologist by profession. Badrinarayanan who visited water bodies like Vandiyur and Melakkal tanks found 2000 Garganey ducks in Vandiyur tanks and recorded Citrine Wagtail at Melakkal tank. Vivid bird watcher, Kumaresan Chandrabose said that they had documented 270 bird species in Madurai so far including the prominent migrants from abroad and India. The water bodies of Madurai and Tamirabarani basin are some of the hot spots of bird watching, he said. “Bird activity is comparatively less this year. We spotted Cotton Pigmy Goose, a small perching duck species, this year”, Kumaresan added. Bird activity remains to be low on various factors. Cyclone Ockhi and the weather change following the cyclone play a vital role in bird activity, bird watchers opine. At Madurai, the water from river Vaigai reached the water bodies late and there is more water for the season. A lot of migrant duck varieties require shallow water for feeding, so they should have spread out in other places too. Further, the harvest which should have been complete by now, has not even started due to late release of water for irrigation, thus altering bird behavior depending on paddy and agricultural fields.