CHENNAI:   has always been key to Chennai Super Kings’ fortunes. This year too it hasn’t been any different. In fact, Dhoni, who had struggled for form in the last two   seasons for Rising Pune Supergiant, has found his mojo back as a batsman this season. While he had scored only 284 runs in 2016 and 290 runs in 2017, he has currently scored 455 runs at a strike rate of 150.66.

 
 While his form with the bat has given CSK the assurance in the middle order, his leadership skills have also been inspiring and played a major role in taking CSK, who had last won the IPL title back in 2011, to their seventh final in nine seasons. No wonder it’s been a season of revival for Dhoni, the leader and batsman.
 
 Suresh Raina, who has been a key member of CSK since 2008, has the first-hand knowledge of Dhoni’s immense contribution to the side over the years. And that’s why he feels the team needs to win the IPL title for Dhoni this time. 
 
 “He got quite emotional (when the team reached the final this time). He cares so much for Chennai; we all do. He has been amazing for CSK since 2008 and is one of the nicest guys around. So this time, we want to win the IPL for Dhoni,” Raina was quoted by the CSK website.
 
 Speaking about Dhoni’s return to form, Raina said: “He gets criticized so often and every time (he) answers his critics back through his performance. Sometimes you need to see it from an emotional side as well. We definitely have a team which can win it for MS this time. You need to do something (special) everytime he turns up and that is the reason we want to win the IPL for Dhoni,” said Raina.
 
 This season, CSK had stacked their team with experienced players who were all proven match-winners. Raina said it stood them in good stead in crunch situations. “I remember reading somewhere after the auction that Chennai team is a bunch of old guys. But it is all about experience and how well you use it. Our unit is very confident right now. This season we batted as a group. Shane Watson and   gave us good starts and then myself, followed by MS have been doing well. So if you see our team is so experienced and has so many match winners in it. We haven’t won the title since 2011 so I really want to do it this time,” Raina said.
 
