Haridwar: Yoga guru Ramdev's   has slapped a legal suit against Maharishi Patanjali Parivar, a trust founded by Swami
 Karamveer, Ramdev's erstwhile partner who left the yoga guru in 2005 after differences cropped up between the two. Patanjali Ayurved had in July last year accused  's trust of trademark and copyright violations, including copying Patanjali Ayurved's logo, use of the ‘Patanjali’ name and launching products that are "deceptively similar to Patanjali Ayurved’s.
  
  A few days ago, on January 23, Kalpamrit, the brand under which Patanjali Parivar makes its products like toothpaste, shampoo, honey, mustard oil, spices, etc, was restrained by the Delhi high court from "using the word 'Patanjali' or logo/artwork similar to those used by Patanjali till further order."
  
  When contacted about the matter, Sudesh Kumar, manager of the Haridwar-based Kaplamrit Ayurved, told TOI on Thursday, "After receiving the notice from Patanjali Ayurved, we had replied to it almost instantly. We came to know of the high court stay order in the case only through media a few days ago."
  
  Kalpamrit had been started by Karamveer in 2016. After leaving Ramdev’s Divya Yog Mandir Trust, he first set up the Maharishi Patanjali Yoga Foundation at Lonavala in Mumbai in 2005 and thereafter the Maharishi Patanjali International Yoga Vidyapeeth at Purkazi in UP. He established the Maharishi Patanjali Parivar Trust in 2015. According to Kumar, Kalpamrit has “dozens of outlets in several parts of the country although sale of the products manufactured by us has been temporarily halted after the court order.”
  
  While both Ramdev and Acharya Balkrishna, his deputy, remained unavailable for comment on the matter despite repeated attempts, Ramdev’s Delhi-based spokesperson SK Tijarawala had told ET a few days ago when the court order restraining Kalpamrit was issued that “Kalpamrit is using 'Maharishi Patanjali Parivar' on all its packaging of products and they are copying us. We have objected to Kalpamrit's green and saffron stroke logo, which is similar to Patanjali, and also prayed for the cancellation of Maharishi Patanjali Parivar's trademark applications”.
  
  Pointing out that Ramdev had registered the Patanjali name 25 years ago, Tijarawala said, “We were established in 2006 and they were established only in 2015-16.” The ET report cited court documents in which Kalpamrit had replied to the notice by stating that "Patanjali is a proper Indian name and an ancient exponent of Raja Yog and the author of Yoga Sutras, a series of the verses about the eight steps needed to attain self-realisation and, therefore, the plaintiff has no exclusive right upon the trademark in the name Patanjali."
  
  The next hearing of the case is in May.
