NEW DELHI: Ending the suspense over the fate of 20 Aam Aadmi Party MLAs, President Ram Nath   signed the order for their disqualification and despatched it to the home ministry, setting the stage for a triangular trial of strength between AAP, BJP and Congress - barring judicial relief for the legislators - once byelections to the assembly seats that will fall vacant are scheduled. 

 The   government retains its majority in the Delhi assembly with 46 MLAs in a House of 70 but the disqualification comes as a shock for the party, which now faces the prospect of having to recontest the 20 seats that had returned AAP candidates. 
 
  The President's decision clearly means Kovind decided against entertaining the plea of the AAP leadership that he give them a hearing and the party's hopes will now hinge on proceedings in the Delhi High Court which is to consider the matter on Monday. 
 
 If there is no judicial stay, and the lack of any delay on part of the President is followed by swift processing of formalities by the MHA, the bypolls might be held sooner rather than later in the six-month period within with they are to be scheduled post-disqualification.
 
  
  
 
 Having had a poor electoral run in Punjab, Goa and Gujarat where it was looking to mark a presence, AAP will have its hands full in retaining its bastion against the challenge posed by BJP and Congress.
 
 The disqualification order, which was signed by the President on January 20, noted that in the light of the opinion expressed by the Election Commission, 20 members of the Delhi legislative assembly were disqualified.
 
 “Having considered the matter in the light of the opinion expressed by the Election Commission, I, Ram Nath Kovind, President of India, in exercise of the powers... do here hold that the aforesaid 20 members of the Delhi legislative assembly stand disqualified from being members of the said assembly,” the notification said.
 
 The order immediately led to an outcry from AAP leaders, including the disqualified MLAs. At an event in Najafgarh, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in an indirect reference to the BJP, said, “They have tried their best to harass us, filed false cases against our MLAs, made CBI raid my house and offices, but they couldn’t find anything against us. Finally, they have now disqualified our MLAs.”
 
 Rural development minister Gopal Rai spoke about “knocking” on the doors of the high court and “even Supreme Court” for justice.
 
 The CM's remarks indicate the argument AAP is likely to adopt, protesting against machinations by the Modi government to disable the Delhi government. 
 
 BJP and Congress are expected to focus on "poor governance" and the controversies AAP leaders have found themselves in, including graft cases against MLAs and ministers.
 
 The event where Kejriwal spoke, held in the constituency of one of the disqualified MLAs — transport minister Kailash Gehlot — also saw the CM refer to the need for the AAP flock to stick together. Claiming that the “unprecedented” bounty of 67 seats in the Delhi assembly was god’s way of protecting the party, Kejriwal said, “Many obstacles come into your way when you walk on the path of truth and honesty… remain united, keep your faith. The truth will prevail in the end.”
 
 The concern may have something to do with dissidents and erstwhile AAP leaders questioning the decisions of Kejriwal and his core team. Some like Kumar Vishwas are openly rebellious, while others like Kapil Mishra and Pankaj Parashar are also consistently critical of AAP.
 
 The recent decision by AAP to elevate two businessmen to Rajya Sabha has also proved controversial, allowing opponents to charge that its core appeal and pro-poor agenda had been dented. It is a vulnerability rivals BJP and Congress will be looking to exploit in the coming few months. 
 
 For the BJP, despite its big wins in the Delhi municipal elections, party factionalism and the recent sealing drive are handicaps it has to overcome.
 
 In the event bypolls to all 20 assembly seats are announced within the next six months, it may only lead to further churn in Delhi politics.
 
 
 
