CHENNAI: The long arm of law seems to be finally catching up with the elusive techie,  , who disappeared more than three years ago after murdering his girlfriend Aruna. He has now been declared a proclaimed offender and the city police have pasted a notice at his house. 

 The police and the revenue officials also conducted a drum-beating near his   residence asking people to provide information about Dinesh. The XIV Metropolitan Magistrate Court, Allikullam, Egmore, has asked the suspect to surrender before June 5.
 
 TOI has been tracking the issue, and last week his neighbours told TOI they suspected the youth was in touch with his family which might know his whereabouts. The victim’s family, meanwhile, has moved out of the area after the girl’s death.
 
 Secretariat Colony police station inspector Rajeshwari told the court they were not able to trace Dinesh even after searches across several places. They listed out the efforts taken by police, which yielded no results.
 
 Following this, in a proclamation order issued to the inspector of police of Secretariat Colony police station, Kilpauk, that the suspect is required to appear at XIV Metropolitan Magistrate Court, Allikullam, Chennai, before 5, June 2018.
 
 “If he fails to surrender before the due date, the authorities will start other process like attaching his properties,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Soon after the order, police pasted a notice at Dinesh’s house and conducted a drumbeating announcing the details about Dinesh in areas surrounding his house like Kuttiappan Street and Chengalvaraya Road.
 
 On March 9, Dinesh allegedly murdered his girlfriend  , an   student, and an intern at the Food Corporation of India, following an altercation a while after he had forced her to come to his apartment on Baraka Road, Nammalwarpet near Ayanavaram. 
 
 Dinesh took away Aruna’s mobile phone but disposed of the SIM card. He abandoned her motorcycle and handbag, containing some gold jewellery and cash, near her house in   after committing the murder. Police teams combed pilgrimage sites near Chennai, including   and Tiruttani. Police also could not obtain any monetary transaction done by the suspect digitally. 
 
 Soon after Chennai city police commissioner A K Vishwanathan assumed the charge, he ordered to probe unsolved murder cases, when special teams were formed.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Dinesh’s father Kannappan said the police had asked them to inform them if he comes to know about his son’s whereabouts. “I noticed the court order being pasted on the door of the house. He should be arrested soon,” he said. “My family has suffered a lot since he went missing after the offence. He should be punished for his crime,” he said.
 
 
