AHMEDABAD: The violence that broke out in the city on Tuesday evening against ‘Padmaavat’ raised a question not only on the police’s role, as they were found to be remaining  , but also a question about where the protestors drew this vigour from.

 Protestors got violent despite the fact that top cops had assured the public that   would be maintained and adequate forces would be deployed at cinemas to keep protesters from the Rajput community at bay. The police’s inaction in dealing with this violence appears to stem from the stand of the political leadership, which has opposed the movie since the beginning. The state home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja has been blaming the filmmakers for the violence, by expressing his view that history has been distorted in the film.
 
 On eve of the release of Padmaavat as well, Jadeja said: "The root cause of the present situation arises from attempts to show history in distorted form. CM Rupani ordered to ban film in the state and even after the change of name we continued the ban. We represented in the SC to continue the ban however after SC ordered to allow screening of the film, we tried to ensure law and order. Today Bhupendrasinh Chudasama had a meeting with the Rajput community. Sufficient action has been taken to control law and order."
 
 "Leaders from Rajput organizations met minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and agreed to not join a bandh. We appeal not to join bandhs. Schools, government offices and transport will be normal and we have made sufficient security arrangements. We have strictly followed the SC directions," Jadeja claimed.
 
 The leniency of the state authorities against protesters is recent in public memory. In 2015, more than 400 police cases were filed when the Patidar community took to the streets during its agitation. As pressure mounted on the government, it proposed to withdraw cases against Patidar youths.
 
 The government has proposed to withdraw 246 criminal cases against Patidars caught rioting in August 2015. The government has even proposed that a court to withdraw a criminal case against a Patidar leader, Lalji Patel. All these applications filed under section 321 of CrPC are pending before various courts and Patidar youths are waiting for their exoneration.
 
 A senior police officer told TOI that police inaction is the result of their uncertainty that stern action against agitators would be backed by the state government. "After the Patidar reservation agitation, there are demands for inquiries into alleged police atrocities. If this sword keeps hanging over your head, it will deter any cop from taking strong action in such political protests," he said.
 
 
