Chennai: Buckling under pressure from civil society groups and senior doctors for its lack of transparency, the Tamil Nadu mental health authority has finally released a record of licensed psychiatric homes and de-addiction centers in the state. The irony: at least a dozen names that advocated better accessibility to these services are missing from the list. 

 In a notification last month, titled ‘List of Licensed Psychiatric Homes and De-addiction/Rehabilitation Centres’, the state health department has put out names of only those that got new licenses or renewed existing ones in 2017. Centres that were registered in the preceding years were omitted. Senior health officials could offer no explanation. 
 
 According to the notification, 43 psychiatric homes and rehabilitation centers were issued licenses in 2017, including 11 in Chennai. 
 
 Institutions that have been running facilities for the mentally ill for more than two decades and which have also played an active role in framing policies related to mental health, like Schizophrenia Research Foundation, the Banyan and TTK de-addiction centre in Chennai, were absent from this list. Dr R Padmavati, joint director of SCARF, said they had separate licenses for all three of their facilities. “We renewed them in 2016,” she told TOI. “Who is this notification intended for? If it’s for the public, why hasn’t the state released the entire list?” she asked.
 
 Dr Anitha Rao, director-medical services at T T Ranganathan Clinical Research Foundation (TTK hospital), said the hospital has for long been pushing the state to come up with a concrete licensing policy and to make the list accessible to the public. “It won’t just guide families but will also help us in referrals. Right now, we are in the dark about the licensing status of most rehabilitation homes,” she said. 
 
 The state mental health authority issues licences to centres that comply with the requirements of the Indian Mental Health Act, 1987. It requires each centre to have a full-time qualified psychiatrist, a psychologist or psychiatric social worker, staff nurses and attenders, besides adequate floor space depending on the number of beds provided. Though licencing was legally mandatory in the state since 1993, it became an important issue only after the Erwadi incident in which 28 chained mentally ill persons were charred to death in a faith-run mental asylum in August 2001.
 
 According to government estimates, approximately 7 lakh people in the state suffer from severe mental illnesses, and 70 lakh from common mental disorders. Around 15 lakh people suffer from alcohol abuse and substance misuse related problems. 
 
 Repeated calls to Dr Kalaiselvan, the director of Institute of Mental Health, Kilpauk, went unanswered. A retired director TOI spoke to said the authority is reluctant to put a list in the public domain as it would put more pressure on them to crack down on unlicensed ones. “A preliminary internet search will reveal more than two dozen centers that are not on our list. We don’t have sufficient staff to check each unlicensed center,” said a former director. This was corroborated by other sources in the Institute.
 
 Vandana Gopikumar, co-founder of The Banyan, said by not revealing the entire list of licensed centres, the state is losing an opportunity to set up a network of rehabilitation centers for the mentally ill. “Even if they are not licensed, it may not be wise to shut them down as these services are still scarce. Instead, identifying them could help registered homes to work with them to improve their standards,” she said. 
 
 Senior officials in the health department said they are working on setting up a new mental health authority, comprising 15 members, which will be chaired by the health secretary as stipulated by the the Mental Healthcare Bill, passed by the Parliament last year. 
 
 
