MOHALI: A sports utility vehicle (SUV) belonging to a Chandigarh-based businessman attending a pre-wedding function was snatched at gunpoint outside a resort in   on Saturday night.

 Vikram Chopra, a resident of Sector 43, had come to attend the “ladies sangeet” of his neighbour at West Wood with his two sons around 9.15pm. After enjoying the party for over an hour, Chopra asked his driver   to have food before they could leave. Rahul returned to the car around 10.30pm and started waiting for Vikram. After 10 minutes, Rahul, who was reclining on the driver’s seat, heard someone knocking on the window and rolled down the glass. That is when a heavily-built man pulled out a gun and threatened Rahul. In the meantime, another man came from the other side and ordered Rahul to sit on the back seat. When Rahul pleaded with the armed miscreants to leave the car, one of the accused hit him with the butt of the gun and threatened to kill him, police said. One of the accused drove away the vehicle, with Rahul on the rear seat. Rahul said he jumped out of the vehicle after the accused had driven for over half a kilometre.
 
 He walked back to the resort and told about the incident to Vikram, who informed the police. The resort doesn’t have a proper parking and vehicles are parked along the road, Vikram said.
 
 During investigation, police came to know that Rahul’s wallet and two cell phones were left in the SUV. Cops put the phones on tracking and found they had been switched off a few minutes after the incident. The last location was traced near IT Park, Chandigarh.
 
 Chopra said, “The SUV is registered on my wife’s name. On Sunday morning, my son’s friend told us had seen our SUV near   passing at high speed around 11pm. When I informed the cops, they found the cell phone location of Rahul to be at the same place at that time.”
 
 Police have formed teams to trace the vehicle and are examining CCTV footage of cameras installed on the possible route taken by the accused.
 
 
 
 
 
  | A carjacker drove away a 21-year-old girl waiting for her friend in the car in Sector 20 market. She was allegedly forced to consume liquor and was raped in the car
 
 
  | Three men robbed SUV, cash and mobile phone from taxi driver at gunpoint near light point of sector 33/45
 
 
  | Two men robbed a   car from an Ola cab driver near Kaimbwala forest area
 
 
  | Three men snatched a Maruti Verna car of a Kharar resident. The car was later found abandoned in Ludhiana
 
 
  | A family stopped over to buy fruits, vegetables and ice-cream for their five-year-old child, when a person robbed their car at gunpoint in Sector 20, Panchkula. He later realized the boy was sitting inside the car. The accused dropped the child in Zirakpur
 
 
