NAGPUR: Chauras, an art exhibition showing works of four final year art students of CISFA, was inaugurated at Chhoti gallery in Laxmi Nagar on Saturday. Though the exhibition is part of the academic activity, the twenty-five works of art on show exhibit quality and hard work.

 The seven paintings of   draw inspiration from visual art forms. Using drapery to depict various layers, Tanya says, “This has a sense of drama much more than what can be seen in a garment.” Her paintings where she uses shapes that resemble a kidney depict silence. 
 
 “I like to speak about silence and leave it to the viewer to interpret it,” she says. Tanya’s twin sister Swaroop has worked on wood and resin to create aesthetically designed sculptures. About the wooden hanging depicting three birds pecking at chains, she says, “Everybody has a fight and this sculpture tells that story.”
 
 The six sculptures by   revolve around relationships as diverse as that of a mother and child and the kind that exists between a pet and its owner. Using various media like stone, metal and wood, Khirekar says, “Relationships fascinate me as they have multiple facets.” The fourth artist Tanya Gajbhiye has selected print as a medium besides showing four paintings in acrylic. “Print involves unique techniques that I find very interesting. When we experiment, the results are different and stunning,” she says.
 
 An exhibition titled ‘Gifted’, showing works of  , also opened at Raja Ravi Varma Art Gallery on Saturday. Sixteen paintings based on the theme of women and child are on display. “I have used cloud as a symbol to bring out changes that shape the life of a woman,” said Jilhekar, an art teacher at Kendriya Vidyalaya, who adds that children appear in her paintings as she remains surrounded by them. 
 
 “I like to draw the female form as it attracts attention. I also connect with the feelings of a women that I depict on canvas,” she adds. A postgraduate in fine arts from Khairagarh University, Jilhekar is exhibiting canvas as big as 5x6ft depicting her friends. “I have put all my friends on this canvas as I remember them,” says the artists who dabbles in nostalgia in other paintings like that of a girl with her granny and a family photo that captures moods reflected in flash.
 
 Both the exhibitions will conclude on Monday.
 
 
