Nagpur: Water level in dams of the region is falling with the rising mercury. The average storage in large reservoirs of the entire region till last week has dipped to 25% of the total capacity. This is half as compared to the levels recorded in the same period last year, shows latest data compiled by Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC). The situation is worse in western Vidarbha which comes under Amravati division. Here, the storage level of all large, mid and small sized dams has come down to an average level of 23%. Threat of water scarcity, especially in the hinterland, looms large. Respective district collectors are in the process of implementing alternate arrangements. This means water will be diverted from dams where there is enough stock to areas having shortage. Yavatmal city is already parched and water is being supplied there once in eight days. The district administration has deployed 54 tankers in the town. In Washim, water is supplied once in two days. “The situation is difficult in Akola too as water in Katepurna dam, located in the district, has touched mere 9%,” said divisional commissioner, Piyush Singh. The situation is comparatively better in Buldhana and there is enough water in Amravati district, said the officer. “Work has been initiated to divert water from Bembla dam to Yavatmal city. Similar plans are being worked out in other affected districts too,” said Singh. The administration is also keeping an eye on developments like migration and cattle fodder shortage, he said. In Nagpur division, which covers eastern Vidarbha, the situation is comparatively better, say officials. Although, the VIDC data says water level in large dams of the division has touched 24%, in medium projects it’s 21%. However, in small dams it is up to 90% of the capacity. In Totladoh dam, which caters to Nagpur city as well as the district, the level has come down to 15% of the capacity which is among the lowest. Nagpur municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal said, “Even at the current levels, there is enough water to meet the city’s requirement. The city has allocation of 190 million cubic meters (MCM) of water out of which 50 MCM has been consumed and another 70 to 80 MCM may be needed, which can be easily drawn from the dam,” he said. Totladoh at present has 150 MCM water. Anoop Kumar, divisional commissioner (Nagpur), said except small parts of Gondia, there is dry spell elsewhere in the division. The VIDC data only indicates live storage but there is also stock in the form of dead storage which can also be used, he said. Dead storage is water below the level from which it can flow into canals due to gravity. Such water has to be pumped out. Sources say, water levels will further dip as the summer advances. This means the current level will not remain static. The situation is expected to improve till monsoon. However, the yearly consumption quota of any area is fixed beforehand considering the need till the month of October.