Yet another offering from Hyderabad’s illustrious Qadir Ali Baig   Foundation — 
  —was one of the much-anticipated events on Bengaluru’s performing arts calendar last weekend. To tell the story of your life — in this case, a truly inspiring one — in a time frame of just about 60 minutes is a challenging task. But   does manage to pull it off quite well in a storytelling format. A monologue, of sorts, Baig took the stage, travelling back and forth in time, weaving moments of mirth and misery from his own life. Noor Baig, who has scripted the play, also made a few appearances in the performance, alongside another actor, Anwar Ali, who donned an all-white ensemble. A set steeped in sepia-toned picture frames, antique furniture and an imposing oak tree in the backdrop add to the quintessential elements that are often associated with heritage theatre. All goes well, but somehow the performance lacks in creating an intense atmosphere that the members of the audience were longing for.

  The spark and profundity in the dialogues that one usually expects from an autobiographical piece of drama was kind of inadequate, and so was the depth in the background score that would have taken the narrative notches high. The major transition periods in the protagonist’s life — from being criticised for his skin tone as a little boy, coping with the sudden death of his father whom he hero-worshipped, shifting base from a sprawling palace home to an advert-making corporate house, the divine intervention he had standing under an oak tree on a rainy evening, his journey back to the world of theatre and finally being honoured with the prestigious   — were all rolled into a show, which fell short of both intensity and drama that a moving personal story often evokes.
 
  Nonetheless, the play based on a true story had its highpoints too. The gesture in which Baig dedicates the biggest award of his life to his late father particularly reflects a rare sense of humility and an undying dedication to the rich legacy that the eminent theatre personality had left behind.
 
 
