CHENNAI: Coming down hard on “all the selfish forces” trying to lure youngsters,   Edappadi K   on Friday urged students to be wary of such elements and not to spend too much time on distractive portals and instant messaging applications.

 Delivering the special address on the 175th year celebrations of Pachaiyappa’s College here, he said, “Poiyana avadhoorana seithigal alangaramaga ungalai vandhu maiyakakoodum (Attractive fake and malicious news may come to you),” but didn’t mention any names. There were several selfish forces that were preparing to lure away members of the student community with all kinds of promises that would ultimately be proved false, Palaniswami said. “Avoid their fake assurances, be good to your   and strive hard for your betterment.”
 
 Appealing to students to not waste their golden time on distractive websites,   platforms and films, Palaniswami emphasised that such mediums should be used only for expanding one’s knowledge. “Do not spend your golden time on anything that can deviate your attention WhatsApp, small and big screens. These mediums must be utilised to enhance your knowledge,” he said. Students possess enormous skills and willpower and could emerge successful in their chosen field once they understand it fully, he said. 
 
 The chief minister’s statement comes in the light of several social media platforms being extensively used by aspiring political parties as well as fringe groups to connect with members of the young generation to promote their agenda.
 
 Turning his attention to the higher   situation, Palaniswami said the percentage of students pursuing higher education in Tamil Nadu had risen from 21% in 2011 to as much as 46.9% now. The government had earmarked Rs 3,680 crore in its annual budget for the department during the 2017-18 financial year and nine new government arts and science colleges were inaugurated.
 
 Earlier, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam recalled the legacy of Pachaiyappa's College and said the institution had over the years produced scholars in almost every field and a battery of political leaders including former chief minister C N Annadurai. On the higher education front, he said, “The government has further increased the allocation for the department to Rs 4620 crore during the current fiscal,” he said.
 
 Fisheries minister D Jayakumar, an alumnus of the college, and higher education minister K P Anbalagan also participated in the event during which a plaque for an arch commemorating the beginning of the year-long celebrations of the college was unveiled.
 
 
