DELH: Hitting out at the  , the Aam Aadmi Party alleged on Friday that "the vindictive recommendation was made at the behest of the BJP-led central government", adding chief election commissioner   was "repaying the debt" to Prime Minister Narendra Modi before his retirement. 

  chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said: "A K Joti was the principal secretary under (the then Gujarat chief minister) Narendra Modi and then the chief secretary of Gujarat. He is retiring on Monday. So you want to repay Modiji's debt. You are mortgaging a constitutional post like the EC." AAP, whose government in the city will not face any threat even after its 20 MLAs are disqualified, claimed "EC has touched the lowest point in its history" as it did not give the party MLAs any chance to present their case. 
 
 CM Arvind Kejriwal termed the development an obstacle in the path of truth and honesty. "Many obstacles come in your way when you walk on the path of truth and honesty. It is natural. But all visible and invisible powers of the universe help you. God helps you because you do not work for yourself but for the society and the country. History is witness that, in the end, truth wins," he tweeted.
 
 Earlier, he had re-tweeted West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee's tweet: "A constitutional body cannot be used for political vendetta. The 20   were not even given a hearing by the EC. Most unfortunate. This goes against the principles of natural justice."
 
 In response to an EC notice, an AAP functionary said, the party had informed the poll body that it wants its MLAs to be given a hearing. "In every system of justice the world over, the accused is given the opportunity to explain his case," Bharadwaj said.
 
 Most of the 20 MLAs, at the centre of the office-of-profit controversy, strongly maintained that the EC recommendation is "gross injustice", "unfair" and that "democracy has been killed". It was clearly mentioned in the 2015 government order announcing the appointment of these MLAs as parliamentary secretaries to different ministers that they will not be eligible for any remuneration or any perks of any kind, a party functionary said.
 
 
