NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court’s decision to examine the validity of the practice of   and certain forms of marriage nikah halala and nikah mutah, has been welcomed by women organisations as “progressive” and a step forward to secure the rights of many Muslim women suffering in silence. 

 
 However, along comes the demand for the need to bring discriminatory practices under personal laws of other religions under the scrutiny of the Constitution Bench of the  .
 
 Activists and some women organisations have been demanding for long that just declaring instant triple talaq as invalid is not enough and want focus on reform in the Muslim personal law. Welcoming Monday’s development in Supreme Court, women rights activist Zakia Soman from Bharatiya Muslim Mahila Andolan said it was an important step and is what they have been seeking all along. BMMA has been at the forefront of the fight against instant triple talaq and reforms in Muslim Personal Law and was seen articulating the views of Muslim women as the petitioner in the Supeme Court in the triple talaq matter.
 
 “A through reform of the Muslim personal law is important to end practices like nikah halala and nikah mutah. There is no data available on these cases as they are executed in secrecy and the woman caught in this kind of a marriage rarely speaks up and chooses to suffer in silence,” Soman said. 
 
 She also pointed that polygamy is a problem that needs to be addressed. She cited cases of instant triple talaq in which the husband moves on to marry another woman while the first wife is left in the lurch as she does not consider herself divorced but the man has already moved on. “Polygamy needs to be addressed under law,” Soman said.
 
 National Federation of Indian Women, which has been demanding reform in all personal laws reinforced its views on the matter. Annie Raja from   said, “The Supreme Court is aware of discriminatory practices in personal laws of other religions too and therefore the attempt should be to end discrimination against all women.”
 
 Meanwhile,   (AIMPLB) member SQR Ilyas said he did not see any need for the matter to be put through a scrutiny by the   does not allow nikah halala the way it is being interpreted and practiced incorrectly by people.
 
 
