VADODARA: The residents of old city area heaved a sigh of relief as the courts shifted from   and   to new court complex in   last month. But what has proved to be a boon for them has turned out to be a bane for residents living around the new complex in Diwalipura, which they claim used to be peaceful until the court shifted there.

 Several citizens living in a residential building across the road and surrounding societies have alleged of nuisance due to haphazard parking on the roads and new   that have come up after court started functioning. The court complex has ample space for parking inside, yet some lawyers and litigants park their cars and two-wheelers outside, claim residents.
 
 “As the new eateries have come up the entire road opposite the court complex gets occupied with cars and two-wheelers of lawyers and litigants. Few days back the encroachment department of Vadodara Municipal Corporation had detained some food carts, but because couple of eateries have opened up in a building the nuisance of illegal parking persists,” said  , a resident of Diwalipura who works as a production manager in a cement plant.
 
 While the road opposite the court remains occupied, until few days back some auto-rickshaw drivers too had started waiting near the gate of the court for passengers leading to traffic jam. But as the traffic cops were deployed to regulate the traffic the auto-rickshaw drivers soon disappeared.
 
 It is not just the illegal parking that is posing as nuisance to the residents, but the eateries too have become a problem. “The road is of course getting blocked because of haphazard parking, but the issue of cleanliness has also cropped up because of eateries. Also, they have not submitted proper food licenses and safety certificates to us,” said a business  , who is secretary of his residential building. “These eateries use gas cylinders, if a mishap takes place, it is not dangerous for them but also for us,” he added.
 
 “We have already deployed four of our men to regulate the traffic, but in coming days we will deploy more to tackle the issue. With the e-challan drive too resuming in next few days we hope the cases of traffic violations will also decrease,” said  , joint commissioner of police (crime and traffic).
 
 
