MANGALURU:   is all set to become the second city in the state after this coastal city to get a  . The state government has sanctioned Rs 22 crore for this project and the planetarium will start functioning in 2019,  , minister for planning, statistics, science and technology said here on Thursday. 

 The project, initially planned as a 2-D facility, was upgraded to a 3-D digital facility with a 15-metre dome, he said.
 
 After dedicating the Swami Vivekananda Planetarium, India’s first opto-mechanical digital 3-D 8K planetarium at Dr Shivarama Karantha Pilikula Nisargadhama here, he told reporters that subject to availability of equipment, the planetarium will become a reality by 2019. The government announced a Rs 3-crore grant in this year’s budget for the construction of a 10m digital planetarium at Belagavi and this could become functional by 2020.
 
 Noting that the state’s fourth planetarium will come up in Kalaburagi, thereby covering all four major geographical regions of the state, Seetharam said the government has plans to set up sub-regional science centres in all districts to go with the regional science centres at Dharwad, Mangaluru and Mysuru. At present, these sub-regional centres are functional at Ballari, Raichur, Bidar and Karwar.
 
 Besides, construction work on sub-regional science centres is under way at Chikkaballapur, Haveri, Bagalkote, Koppal and Davanagere and ground work has been initiated at Gadag and Madikeri, he said. The cost of each such centre is around Rs 5-6 crore, Seetharam said, and barring Mandya, Kolar, Chitradurga and Ramanagara, these centres have been proposed for all other districts.
 
 While regional and sub-regional science centres are aimed at enhancing scientific temperament among youth in the state, Seetharam said the government will ensure the benefits of science reach the rural poor. Seven additional mobile planetariums will be procured to go with five planetariums, he said, adding that six will be stationed in the educationally backward Hyderabad-Karnatak region.
 
 The 7th mobile planetarium and existing five mobile planetariums will help government high school students in the districts, he said. The government has decided to extend this facility to students of aided schools and PU colleges. The Hyderabad-Karnatak Region Development Board is using funds available with it to procure these six mobile planetariums, Seetharam added. MLAs K Abhayachandra Jain, J R Lobo and mayor Kavitha Sanil were present.
 
 
