So, finally,  ’s political party has a name —   — a flag, and he’s all set to begin his innings as a politician. As he gets his show on the road, we ask a cross-section of people across ages and professions if they see this famous actor as a successful politician, are they betting big on him turning around the political fortunes of the state, and, most importantly, will they give him a chance? Read on…

 Kamal reached the house of Kalamji in   by around 7.45am on Wednesday. He was welcomed at the entrance by Kalamji’s family and taken inside to meet Kalamji’s elder brother Mohamed Muthu Meera Maraikayar. When Kamal told him that he was launching a political party,   blessed him, presented him a shawl and also gifted a portrait of the former President of India. He also prayed for Kamal. The actor felt very emotional about the kind of welcome he was given at Kalamji’s house. Kamal spoke about the books he had read, which were written by Kalamji and how he wants to achieve Kalamji’s vision 2020. While they both were talking, Kamal also helped Maraikayarji wear his watch. That was a very touching gesture by the actor. Later, he had breakfast at theie house. He had idli and dosa with sambar and chutney. Kalamji’s niece, Nazeema Maraikayar, offered him laddoo and tea. Following that, he visited the museum on the first floor of the house, where photos, medals and other souvenirs of Kalamji are showcased. He again met Kalamji’s brother before leaving. Kamal was at Kalamji’s house for close to one hour. And when he stepped out to leave, there was a sea of people waiting to get a glimpse of Kamal.
 
 
 
 
 
 It’s too early to say if Kamal will be successful or not as a politician. That is something he himself doesn’t know at this stage. But we always start out with hope, and I’d say, he’s made a strong beginning. His ability to bring in the crowds and rope in a national leader of the calibre of Arvind Kejriwal, and the fact that he’s connected with leaders across different ideologies are impressive. He should have clearly articulated his stand on a few issues, which I am sure he will, but he must explain his stand on the central government and its policies without delay. When asked about Tamil and the Tamil way, he could have aired his views on what he thought of this imposition of Hindi on us. Let’s say he has shocked the system, and that was long overdue. Right now, anything or anyone who challenges the status quo is very welcome.
 
 
 
 Whether it is politics, business or cinema — it is the basic principles of a man’s belief that matters. Everybody plays cricket, but there is only one who makes the cut. Having known Kamal for so many years, I can vouch for his integrity and honesty. A man who has achieved so much in cinema is making inroads into politics. It will be all about understanding the new rules of the game. He is just broadening his ideas into something else... but only time will tell. But I hope this new position works for him, and I wish him all the luck. 
 
 
 
 I think Kamal is very forthright. He was forced to get into politics because he saw no one competent on the horizon. His intentions to get into politics are totally bonafide. He’s not here for power mongering. He is already a big shot, a top gun in his space, and he has nothing to prove to anyone. It’s not like he woke up one day and decided to get into politics. He is at that age where he realises he has to give back to where he got everything from. The activities in that space after Jayalalithaa’s demise may have been his trigger, and Rajini’s announcement to join the political fray may have had him thinking if not now, then when. Kamal is a very smart guy. He may not have thought long and hard about this, but he has thought it out well. He has an extensive knowledge of  , and the Indian political history. I don’t question his intention or competence, but there are no guarantees if he will succeed. There is no dearth of names who have fought and fallen. Chiranjeevi, Vijayakanth, Amitabh Bachchan. With the notable exception of NTR , I can’t think of any political film icon who succeeded without zero mentorship, political experience or support. So, we’ll have to see how Kamal fares. He’s no quitter. He has put forth a very inclusive policy for TN, but I can’t remember when last that won anyone the elections in our state. I see a lot more red than white and black in his flag, but I am not a big fan of socialism, which is more suited to homogeneous and neo-Utopian societies, which TN is clearly not.
 
 
 
 I have been a part of Kamal sir’s films for more than two decades. I feel his stand on three things — education, health and corruption, is sure to bring drastic changes in Tamil Nadu. His plan is to ensure that education and medicine become affordable to one and all. I think he is one of the most eligible persons to talk about corruption and black money, as he has always stayed away from it. All his transactions and dealings with respect to money is pure white, and hence, someone like him forming a party is giving ample hope to people. He’s a very organised man, and it is evident from the way the meeting happened in Madurai; there was 
 no chaos, no traffic disturbance and no misbehaviour from the attendees. 
 
 
 
 
 
 According to Kamal’s horoscope, he is going through Budha (Venus) bukti in Sukra dasa. His Sukra dasa will end in October 2020. Since he is already a famous personality, graha-wise he is not going to get any additional fame. The above period favoured him a lot because the placement of Kujan (Mars) was good. Venus in Mars’ house had given him mixed fortune.
 
 As a politician, when it comes to him becoming a minister, or ruling a state or country, his chances are very low, as per the chart. From 2020, he will be into his Surya maha dasa for six years, but the Suryan is debilitated, and the association of  , along with Sun (Suryan), will not give him many positive results. He will not be doing much in the entertainment area, too. 
 
 His chart indicates that Jupiter is in ucham, but it’s in the 10th house. There is a saying in astrology that Guru (Jupiter) pathil irunthal padhavi pokum. That indicates he will have fame, but he won’t be able to attain any position. If we take the bagya sthanam, 9th house, Kethu is in Budhan’s house, and Budhan is associated with Suryan. Though he will toil hard and can have a mass following behind him, he may not be able to become a ruler.
 
 
 
 The geometry, shape and colour of a logo have a deeper meaning and interpretation. The centre of the logo is a six pointed star, which is popular across many religions and practices. It symbolises the union of the yin and   energy. In oriental culture it has also been used to convey revolution, start of new beginnings. The six pointed ends also signify power, wisdom, majesty, love, mercy and justice.
 
 The meaning of colours vary in different cultures, but primarily the colours — red, black and white are the colours which one can relate in day-to-day life. The colour red signifies light and life (blood). The colour black is universally a symbol of death, separation, slavery or submission. White is the symbol for purity and all that is good, and has the power to exorcise or forbid unacceptable things.
 
 The colour psychology in metaphysical; science of Feng shui have a relevance, too. The colour red signifies fire element — abundance, fame, joy and relationship. White represents metal element — represents creativity, helpful people and networking. Black is symbolic of water element, which signifies communication, flow, connection and supportive people.
 
 The combination of the six pointed star signifying union of Yin and Yang energies, with six supportive wrists and palm and the combination of the three colours symbolically indicates start of new beginnings, revolution, interconnection of people ,communication, receptiveness support and help.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I will definitely vote for him. The present political situation in our state is pretty bad. All of them are only looking at accumulating wealth for themselves. We were all waiting for a change, and I am certain that Kamal sir will bring about the change. He is more knowledgeable compared to other stars, who has entered politics. He has never been afraid to voice his opinions and has a social sense. I feel he will make a good politician. 
 
 
 
 The ruling party or the opposition party hasn’t done anything much for our state. A change like this will only help our state to do better. Unlike others, Kamal sir has been vocal about pressing issues and has social awareness. He has a vision, so my vote is for him.
 
 
 
 No, I won’t vote for Kamal Hassan. Tamil Nadu is the only state which has been ruled by actors. Their high class lifestyle can never make them understand the ground reality. How will they ever make decent political leaders? Kamal has lived his whole life in Tamil Nadu, when did we see him doing some noble act to help the underprivileged people? So, why is he coming now? Just like our previous political leaders, he will also just roar for some time in his campaigns and bring no change.
 
 
 
 Anybody can get into politics and one doesn’t really need any qualification to become a politician. So, there is no question of why Kamal has jumped into politics. Of course, I respect him as an artiste. I’m always a fan of his works as no one can come close to the knowledge that he has. But I will not vote for him. He has said that he would bring about a change in the system, but I don’t have faith in him. Whoever has made this statement has never been able to achieve anything. You need to be a selfless person to become a politician. Also, there is a question as to why he has joined politics only now. Why didn’t he enter politics when M Karunanidhi was active or when Amma was alive. I, too, have the same question. If he survives in politics for 10 years, I might consider voting for him. 
  
 
 
 I definitely think Kamal Haasan has everything in him to become a good politician. I will decide whether to vote for him or not after seeing what he has in store for people. Let him begin his campaign and I will decide then. 
 
 
 
 I haven’t really thought about it much. But it will be interesting to see his party’s Aam Aadmi connect. We will have to wait and see how that’s going to work down south. Also, I think, Kamal has a slightly more modern perspective as he has been associated a lot with the world outside politics. Therefore, he will know what someone would want from a politician than a person who has only been in politics for the last 20 years or more.
  
 
 
