GURUGRAM: Two policemen and the SHO of   suffered injuries when their   was attacked by a group of youths in   village early in the morning on Wednesday. The cops had tried to intervene when they spotted a group of men brutally thrashing a youth tied to an electric pole.

 Not only did the youths, who were drunk, thrash the cops, they also snatched a carbine from one of the men in uniform. The other cops, though, eventually managed to take it back and rescue their colleague, who was being thrashed by the youths. Later on Wednesday morning, an FIR was registered and two of the accused arrested. They were produced in a city court and sent to judicial custody.
 
 According to the complaint by Sector 9A SHO, inspector  , filed at Sector 10A police station, late night on Tuesday, he was on night patrol with his driver — constable Laxman, along with SPOs Suresh Kumar and Pramod Kumar, when around 2am near   turn in Basai, they spotted a gang of youths thrashing another youth tied to an electric pole. 
 
 The youths claimed their victim was a thief. An altercation ensued after the cops asked the youths to hand the victim over to them.
 
 “All of the accused were drunk and started abusing us. They attacked us and snatched the carbine from constable Laxman. When we snatched it back, they attacked us, leaving Laxman and Suresh injured. We, though, did manage to rescue their victim who was tied to a pole,” wrote inspector Singh in his complaint.
 
 Laxman and Suresh Kumar were were rushed to Civil Hospital. Both were discharged by Wednesday evening and are said to be out of danger. 
 
 An FIR was registered against the accused under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (causing hurt), 332 (causing hurt to deter public servant), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant), 379A (snatching), 342 (wrong restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC at Sector 10A police station.
 
 Later, a search was launched and two of the accused arrested — Basai residents Inderpal and Vikram. Further raids are being conducted to nab the other identified accused — Rahul, Ramesh and Mukesh. The man who was rescued by police was identified as Pramod Kumar, native of Aligarh in UP. He was allowed to leave for his home after medical examination and first aid.
 
 “The accused were drunk and were thrashing Pramod. Two of them have been arrested, we’ll catch the rest soon,” said Sector 10A SHO Yashwant Yadav.
 
 
