Indore: Tejaji Nagar police on Wednesday solved the murder case of 50-year-old woman whose body was found in a sack in Tejaji Nagar and arrested two married women and two men in this connection.

 The accused had planned the murder of the woman in order to   her gold  . Body of the woman identified as Durga Kharni, resident of Juni Indore, was found covered in a bedsheet and stuffed in a sack, before being thrown on the fields in Mundi village on the outskirts of city on Monday.
 
 The family told police that Durga worked as a caterer and had left home on December 30 with a woman. Tejaji Nagar police had registered a case of murder and launched a probe into the matter. After questioning and investigations in the case, police arrested  , Babu alias Yogesh, Mangilal and   alias Lajjo alias Lajwanti and booked them under relevant sections of the IPC whereas one other accused Chandar alias Chandan Chouhan was absconding. 
 
 Police said that the main accused Rakhi had met Durga at a birthday party and had seen her wearing gold jewellery. She then hatched a plan along with her accomplice to loot Durga and murder her. Rakhi made a call to Durga and asked her to come and prepare food at her house as she was hosting a party. 
 
 According to the plan, Bharti waited at a sweet shop in Annapurna area whereas Rakhi went to pick Durga from her home. While on their way to Rakhi’s home, they stopped at the sweet shop to purchase some breakfast where Bharti was already stationed. Rakhi and Bharti pretended that they did not know each other. Bharti accompanied them as she had some work for Durga. Durga did not know that Bharti and Rakhi were already acquainted and had planned to kill her. 
 
 After reaching Rakhi’s house in Annapurna area, the women called three men who helped them strangulate Durga. The accused first sedated Durga by adding medicines in the breakfast. As she fell unconscious, the accused used rope and stole to strangulate her. The accused roamed around the city in an auto and went to different spots in search of a secluded place to throw her body but they did not find anyplace. Finally, while returning, the accused found a road near Truba College where they dumped the body in the sack and covered it with a cloth. 
 
 “Chandan will be arrested at the earliest. A cash prize of Rs 10,000 has been announced on any information about him,” said CSP Parul Belapurkar.
 
 
