NEW DELHI: Sub-inspector Stanzin Noryang had never ridden a motorcycle before joining Border Security Force. Yet it took only a few months of training with   that turned her into a daredevil biker performing unbelievable stunts. 

 Noryang was part of a 106-member team of bikers called Seema Bhawani that enthralled the crowd at the   parade.
 
 “The most difficult part of riding a bike is to keep the two-wheeler straight. It is a 350cc motorbike that needs to be held straight at a particular speed to be able to balance oneself. It takes a lot of practice for this,” Noryang said. 
 
 The crowd broke into cheers when Noryang balanced herself atop her motorcycle and saluted the President as she drove past the saluting dais. Noryang from Manipur, had joined BSF in 2008. 
 
 This was the first time an all-women daredevil team from BSF performed at the Republic Day  . All the participants were hand-picked and taught to ride Royal Enfield motorbikes and then learn balancing skills. 
 
 The Seema Bhawani team was raised at the BSF academy in Tekanpur on October 20, 2016. Ever since, the team has undergone intensive training. It showcased its skills on the occasion of its Golden Jubilee celebrations as well as at an International Women’s Day event held in Delhi. 
 
 “The team has a unique taste for adventure sports. Despite the tough job of guarding the borders, these women combatants – also called ‘Mahila Praharis’—have developed a thrilling set of skills of trick riding on a motorcycle,” said a senior BSF officer. 
 
 Hansa Didwania from Kolkata, who had joined as constable in 2012, has perfected in the last three months the skill of standing straight on a bike and performing a Yoga posture. 
 
 “I had seen the seniors from the Daredevil team perform this earlier and had opted for this role. It feels great when we are applauded,” she Didwania said with a smile. 
 
 The Seema Bhawani contingent began with women wanting to ride bikes. They were chosen from different battalions of BSF posted on the international borders with Pakistan and Bangladesh, and the northeastern states. All are aged between 25 and 30. 
 
 The team performed stunts like fish riding, side riding, ‘faulaad’, ‘prachand balay shaktiman’, ‘Mobile PT’, bullfighting, harmony, peacock, Brahma Yog, ‘guldasta’, ‘sapta rishi’ and windmill. They ended with a pyramid with a flag.
 
 
