With the ongoing discussions between   (TFPC) and Digital Service Providers (DSP) continuing for the second week in Tamil Nadu, no new Tamil film has released this week as well. Interestingly, the other south industries which were part of the strike, including the Telugu film industry, which was the first to call for the strike, have come to an agreement with the DSPs and have had new releases on Friday. Those associated with DSPs say that they came up with an amicable solution — by offering producers reduced Virtual Print Fee (VPF) rates. However, they allege that the   has been rejecting their offers continuously for reasons best known to them. 

 Meanwhile, adding to this uncertainty, the   ( ), an association of exhibitors, has now called for theatres to shut down from March 16 — if their long-pending demands are not approved by the TN government.
 
 A theatre owner in the city opens up, “One of our primary demands is the removal of Local Body Entertainment Tax (LBET), as its introduction has made it difficult to attract the audience to theatres. We had to close one of our two halls for the last two weeks because of lack of new content and revenue. I think the government is getting more money after the implementation of GST. The situation cannot continue like this.” 
 
 He also clarifies that there is no connection between the ongoing TFPC strike and the upcoming exhibitors’ strike.
 
 Meanwhile, on Thursday, the TFPC advised producers not to hold any press meet or cinema-related event. A source close to TFPC says, “The other industries had a discussion with their respective government officials, which made things relatively easier there. When there’s an uncertainty regarding release of new films, holding film-related events or press shows has no relevance, which is why such an order has been issued.”
 
 Siva Sri who runs Krishna theatre in  , and is also the producer of two films, feels that the frequent strikes that have happening in the industry over the last two years have distanced audiences from movies. He explains, “To make it simple, the situation is similar to an alcoholic getting used to live without drinking if wine shops are shut. It has become almost impossible to run a theatre. If this condition persists, I think almost 40 per cent of the current number of theatres will be shut down in the coming years. We sell tickets for `50-60. Due to the present strike, we have re-released some old films, and despite selling tickets to these movies for `30, people are not turning up. The different industry bodies can solve this issue if they sit and talk, but they won’t do it because everyone is egoistic. All of them continue to blame each other. In the end, everyone in the business is suffering.”
 The TFPC, however, continues to allege that DSPs are operating with a hidden agenda. SR  , treasurer of TFPC, says, “The real issue has still not been addressed. We are not going back from our demand that the projectors be given to the exhibitors.”
 
 Refuting the allegations of TFPC, Senthil Kumar, co-founder of  , says, “We have been breaking our heads over why only the TFPC has a problem with our terms. We are not compelling them to associate with us. If they are unhappy about our agreement, they are free to collaborate with other players. Three new players have forayed into Tamil Nadu recently. One of them is charging `15,000 a week, which is actually the rate we charge for a movie’s entire theatre run. When it comes to small movies, we collect only around `6,000 per screen. Moreover, we haven’t raised the VPF rate in the last 10 years. Also, when compared to the VPF outside India, which is $850, what we charge here is comparatively low.”
 
 
 
 
