Ghaziabad: Five persons, including three women, were   for culpable homicide a day after four men lost their lives allegedly by consuming spurious liquor in   Colony. One of the accused, Sudhir, who used to sell smuggled liquor in retail in the area, was arrested on Wednesday.

 Sudhir’s wife, Promila, who was also named as an accused for allegedly helping him in sale of illicit liquor, is on the run.
 
 A total of three FIRs have been registered at Khoda Colony police station under sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 328 (causing hurt by means of poison) of IPC.
 
 Apart from Sudhir and Promila, who have been booked in a single FIR, the police have booked another woman,  , in a separate FIR. In the third FIR, one Sunil and his mother have been named as accused. The cases were registered after three families that have lost their members to spurious liquor, lodged formal police complaints.
 
 Four of the five persons who had been taken to   in Delhi with complaints resembling poisoning, died while the fifth, identified as Srinivas (40), is admitted to an ICU.
 
 “There has been no improvement in Srinivas’s health condition and he continues to be serious. Doctors have told us that chances of his survival are slim,” Suhail, a neighbour, said.
 
 Autopsies conducted on the four bodies have remained inconclusive about their causes of death. “Viscera of the bodies have been preserved and will be sent to forensic laboratory in Agra for further analysis. We are yet to receive the viscera as well as the autopsy reports from Delhi. Four teams have been formed in order to nab the accused. Raids are being conducted at several locations in Delhi-NCR,” circle officer, DSP Dharmendra Chauhan, told TOI.
 
 Throughout Wednesday, police and excise officials conducted raids to recover contraband liquor and narcotics from Khoda Colony. Nearly 15 kg of cannabis was recovered from two persons, one of whom is a woman, and separate FIRs registered against them.
 
 A two-member team comprising officials of the level of joint excise commissioners conducted a field visit in Khoda Colony on Wednesday. The team comprised   and RS Pathak of Agra zone.
 
 “The inquiry has been ordered by the headquarters of the excise department in Lucknow. The team will submit its report to the headquarters. Our raids and recoveries in Khoda Colony are underway,” Rajesh Mani Tripathi, joint excise commissioner of Meerut Zone, told TOI.
 
 
