Professional wrestling and the entertainment world go hand-in-hand. Over the years, several wrestlers have dabbled in acting with the likes of Dwayne ‘The Rock’ Johnson, Hulk Hogan, and The Great   finding varied amounts of success in their acting careers. TV actor  , however, seems to have taken the reverse route. The actor, who is known for his portrayals of Bheem in   and Vali and Ravan in Sankat Mochan Mahabali Hanuman, has been signed by the   on a developmental contract, making him the latest Indian to be brought on board by the wrestling promotion.

  
  Saurav Gurjar in a still from the show Mahabharat, which aired in 2014
 
  Saurav, who hails from Dabra in Madhya Pradesh, has a background in boxing and kickboxing, having been the   State Boxing Champion before he took up acting. Speaking to DT from the US, where he is training for his WWE debut, Saurav says, "It had been a dream of mine since childhood to be a WWE wrestler. I am from the Chambal valley, where kids usually have two options – to join politics or the sand mafia. But I always wanted to be a professional wrestler. Everything that happened in between – sports, acting – was by chance. I did enjoy all that success par hamesha lagta tha ki yeh meri manzil nahi hai." Saurav says he was a die-hard WWE fan growing up and would try to emulate the moves of wrestlers like   and The   as a kid. "My father is a farmer and we didn’t have a TV growing up so I would watch wrestling fights at my neighbour’s place. I grew up watching people like The Undertaker, Kane, and  . Kane was someone I idolized and I can’t wait to meet him. Although I’m sure if he walks up to me in the ring, I would be too stunned to say or do anything," he says.
 
  
  
 
 
  It was as a student in Haryana that Saurav first dabbled in fighting as he trained as a boxer and a kick-boxer. He recounts, "Haryana has had a huge role in my journey. After finishing schooling, I lived in Rohtak for five years where I studied at Maharishi Dayanand University. It was during this time – over ten years ago – that I started training as a boxer. I was the Haryana state champion in the super heavyweight category in 2006 before an injury caused me to switch to kickboxing." Because much of his training in the fighting arts has been in Haryana, he considers himself very connected to the state. "Haryana has always produced champion sportspersons, be it Vijender Singh or the Phogats. I hope I can do justice to the legacy of the state," says Saurav.
 
  Although he hasn’t finalized a ring name for his wrestling career yet, Saurav wants to play with the word Bheem as it was Bheem’s character that earned him fame on TV. "Fans Bheem ke naam se jaante hain and it will be easy to pronounce for the westerners. So, I want it to be something like that. But, whatever it is, I can assure you, it will be very Indian. Everything from my name to my attire and even entry music will be completely Indian. Dhol-nagaade ke beats par ring mein entry hogi toh mazaa hi alag hoga," Saurav tells us.
 
  
  Saurav Gurjar (extreme right) as Bheem in Mahabharat 
 
  The 6ft 8in giant has been a popular face on TV through his appearances on various TV shows over the years and has a dedicated following in South East Asia, where his shows are imm ensely popular. He says that due to wrestling being a childhood dream for him, it wasn’t a tough choice to turn his back on acting, but his in-ring performances won’t put a full stop to his acting career. "I believe I can juggle both things. The Rock and   are two big examples of people who have done both and The Rock has been very successful as both an actor and a wrestler. So, I will continue acting, but my focus will be my career as a wrestler," says Saurav, who will soon begin shooting for the Ranbir Kapoor, Alia Bhatt-starrer Brahmastra, where he plays a negative character.
 
  
  
 
 
  Saurav will be the seventh Indian face in the WWE, which boasts of popular names like former champion Jinder Mahal, the Singh Brothers and Kavita Devi. When asked if this era was the best for Indian wrestlers in the world, Saurav was quick to point out that historically, India has always produced champion wrestlers. He says, "I don’t agree that India has recently started producing top wrestlers. Hindustan ka zamana toh hamesha se hi raha hai. Be it the Great Gama or  , India has always produced great wrestlers. Bas ab visibility badh gayi hai. It’s great that WWE has so many Indian faces like Jinder Mahal, Kavita Devi, etc. It will be a motivation for me to compete with them and carve a name for myself." Though he is currently on a developmental contract and it will be some time before he starts competing for the big titles, Saurav has his sights set on the biggest prize. "My goal, my zidd is simple – I want to be the WWE Heavyweight Champion. It might take time but I will get there eventually," he declares.
 
 
  
 
 
