CHENNAI : The ruling AIADMK government’s longevity may depend on the outcome of the   verdict in the ’18 disqualified MLAs’ case. But, chief minister  , who is also the party’s joint co-ordinator, is going about utilizing available opportunities to strengthen his hold over the AIADMK.

 If last month he doled out party posts to several leaders, including those disgruntled from the deputy chief minister and party co-ordinator, O Panneerselvam faction, EPS has firmly set his eyes on the on-going   in the state to not only get the ruling party grab majority of the posts, but also to ensure that the rebel leader T T V Dhinakaran’s   party does not get anything.
 
 Co-operative polls were last held in   in 2013 and the term of the elected representatives are coming to an end this month. Polls are underway to elect directors for over 18,000 co-operatives this month.
 
 “EPS has sent out a firm word to ensure the ruling party gets a majority in all the co-operative societies and gets the posts of president and vice president. To avoid trouble, he has advised party men to let go a few posts to other parties, especially the DMK, but nothing to AMMK,” a highly placed source in the AIADMK told TOI. This way, over a lakh posts will be filled by members of ruling party, the source added.
 
 While there have been repeated clashes between AIADMK and AMMK, some have even approached the courts to annul the on-going elections. “In our primary co-operative society, out of the 11 directors’ post, we have been told to ensure the ruling party gets 7 of them and the rest could go to DMK and others. But, not a single one to AMMK,” said an AIADMK worker in Uthiramerur region in Kancheepuram district.
 
 In Vellore district, the officials did not even distribute nomination papers to the non-AIADMK candidates, said N Subramani of Tamil Nadu Farmers Association and a member of the society in Permandur village in Tindivanam taluk. BJP’s Vellore district vice president M Jagganathan said the elections were a “eyewash”, since nominations of those, excluding AIADMK and DMK, were rejected without even valid reasons. Directors of 163 out of 186 societies were elected unopposed, with AIADMK and DMK sharing it in the ratio of 60:40.
 
 In Madurai, allegations of officials not providing acknowledgement of nominations papers submitted by those from other parties has come up. “I feel DMK is not showing keen interest. In most of the places, it is our party men and TTV supporters who are opposing the undemocratic way of election,” says Madurai rural district secretary of CPI (M) C Ramakrishnan.
 
 In the Kongu belt, where both the DMK and TTV’s AMMK are weak, it looks like a cakewalk for EPS. Over 60% of posts in co-operative societies have been grabbed unopposed by EPS camp and in a large chunk of the rest, it’s a tussle within the ruling party for key posts, as witnessed in Varathayampalayam and Allalpalayam in Annur segment. “Most of nominations by DMK party men have been rejected across the region, though in several places the nominations of   men were accepted,” said a senior cooperative officer, overseeing the elections.
 
 (With inputs from Shanmugha Sundaram J in Vellore, V Devanathan in Madurai & V Mayilvaganan in Coimbatore)
 
 Ends/dg
 
 
