NEW DELHI: The AAP government on Thursday approached the Delhi high court seeking a   of its April 16th decision asking it to release funds to two municipal corporations.

 With the one month deadline fixed by   to release payments as per 4th Delhi Finance Commission ending on Thursday, the government has urged HC to reconsider its  , arguing that DFC recommendations are only advisory and not binding.
 
 TOI has learnt that the government, in its review plea, has also asserted that budgetary allocation deciding how much money has to be given is an executive function outside the domain of the judiciary.
 
 Scope of judicial review is extremely limited in such cases, the government is expected to argue, while seeking review of the interim order passed by a bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar.
 
 The bench had last month granted relief to EDMC and north corporation, while noting that “prima facie” it was convinced the MCDs deserve benefits of the 4th DFC’s recommendations on sharing of funds with Delhi government. It had set a one-month deadline for Delhi government to release the money.
 
 It had advised AAP government not to “stand on ego and say that since government of India is not paying you, you will not   the municipal corporations” and further ordered it to release the dues with effect from November 1, 2017.
 
 But the government has responded to the direction by claiming that HC’s direction is erroneous, since courts can’t direct payment of specific amount nor direct the government to implement DFC recommendations.
 
 Sources said the review argues that DFC recommendations can be decided only by the state government that is the political and bureaucratic executive. It also points out that in the case of 4th DFC, both the Delhi cabinet and the LG were on the same page before it was tabled before the Delhi Assembly, hinting that it is the domain of the executive.
 
 HC’s interim order was confined to EDMC and North Corporation since both face a fund crunch and are unable to pay salaries and pensions. It specified that the amounts were to be released within four weeks and would be for the period from November 1 last year to March 31 this year, saying it was imperative to ensure salaries are paid and civic facilities not affected.
 
 It also noted that while government has been sitting on the 4th DFC, it failed to take any steps to ensure implementation of the 5th DFC. The court had directed it to file a chart explaining the amounts payable to the three corporations under the two DFCs and asked the Centre to file an affidavit indicating the funds Delhi government was entitled to and the basis for deciding the same.
 
 In April, the court made no bones about its view that despite having funds, the Delhi government appeared unwilling to implement 4th DFC, under which the civic bodies have been allotted more funds.
 
 
