AHMEDABAD: If the   (STB) proposal on new vehicle registration is accepted by the state home department, you may have to produce a document demonstrating that you have   - at home and at your work place - before heading to the RTO to register a new car. This proposal is part of a 19-page   on de-congesting roads in the four major cities of  . 

 Senior   officials say that in Ahmedabad, which has a 2,600km road network, nearly 1,170km has free onroad parking. "Thus about 45% percent of road shoulder space in cities is occupied by parked vehicles," says the STB official.
 
 DGP (STB) Vipul Vijoy said that unless such conditions are laid down for new vehicles, deterioration of our city roads cannot be stalled. "We proposed that owners of new vehicles prove that they have parking space at home and their workplace before the RTO registers vehicles," says Vijoy.
 
 DGP (STB) Vipul Vijoy said that unless such conditions are laid down for new vehicles, deterioration of our city roads cannot be stalled.
 
 
 
 DGP (STB) Vipul Vijoy says, “We proposed that owners of new vehicles prove that they have parking space at home and their workplace before the RTO registers vehicles.”
 
 While Ahmedabad has seen a leap in its vehicle count, now at 43 lakh vehicles, Surat has 25 lakh vehicles, Rajkot 18 lakh and Vadodara 19 lakh. In December 2016, the Union urban development ministry circulated a similar paper on a parking policy to all states.
 
 Additional chief secretary for transport Vipul Mittra says, “The government is closely monitoring the rising number of vehicles in cities. There are several measures being proposed. Most importantly, we are looking at ways of making public transport popular.”
 
 However, with the Lok Sabha elections just a year away, one needs to see whether the government goes ahead with this policy shift or not.
 
 A report by the state traffic branch (STB) has recommended capping vehicle sales based on parking availability by making proof of parking mandatory for new vehicle registration. Automobile industry stakeholders said the move could prove detrimental to the industry.
 
 Industry stakeholders say that even though the move is well intended, ground reality must be taken into consideration before radical implementation. “The automobile industry employs thousands of people across the country. While the move may be needed to curb traffic problems, it has to be wellplanned and implemented in phases because overnight implementation will hurt businesses. Moreover, capital expenditure on a car dealership is significantly high and thus if this is implemented overnight, it could hurt investor confidence,” said Sukhbir Bagga, director of a car dealership in Ahmedabad.
 
 Some dealers say the move will hurt sales to a great extent “Parking is an infrastructure issue and while realtors are doing their bit, the government should create multilevel parking facilities. Such a decision, if taken, will adversely impact the automobile industry in India which is in a growth stage at present,” said Rajnish Arora, vice president of an Ahmedabad-based dealership.
 
 Others feel this could create an opportunity for corruption. “The industry will be impacted to an extent. However, in the longer run, it could increase corruption unless there is adequate infrastructure,” said Ajit Mehta, chairman and managing director of a city-based vehicle dealership.
 
 
