 (SOUTH 24 PARGANAS): The Trinamool Congress candidate from Maheshtala has his task cut out for the May 28 by-election. 

 Dulal Das will not only have to plug the fast polarising vote bank in the face of a rejuvenated BJP and the Congress-Left alliance but will also have to neutralise the party’s internal dissension that became apparent after his daughter   became embroiled in a marital discord with mayor  . The Kolkata mayor also happens to be president of the party’s South 24 Parganas unit. 
 
 
  
 
 Trinamool’s troubles started with the surprise nomination of Das as its candidate. Insiders believe that by nominating Das, who was not Chatterjee’s choice, the party wanted to send a signal to the mayor. 
 
 “Though he (Chatterjee) is officially in charge of South 24 Parganas, he has neither addressed a rally nor attended any meeting, thus keeping a section of party workers (mainly TMC veterans) away from the campaign,” a senior Trinamool leader said.
 
 Das, however, refuted reports of differences while majorly banking on Youth Trinamool Congress, led by Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee, to clinch the election. Asked whether family problems would affect the poll outcome, the Maheshtala Municipality chairman said: “People will vote for development and Mamata Banerjee, and not for any individual. An institution is above any individual.”
 
 Maheshtala, once a Left Front bastion, joined the Trinamool fold when in 2011 Dulal Das’ wife Kasturi Das defeated Left by 26,000 votes. The margin dwindled to 12,000 when she defeated CPM heavyweight   in 2016. Political observers believe it was BJP’s rise in the area that helped narrow the margin.
 
 Since then, BJP has started increasing its base in Mahestala, one of RSS’ focus areas. To woo the educated middle class, BJP has fielded former CBI joint director Sujit Ghosh in the fray. Ghosh was not available for comment, but a senior BJP leader said: “People are frustrated with family politics and so they want a change. We have a better candidate and people will understand this.”
 
 Maheshtala assembly constituency comprises 26 wards of the total 35 of Maheshtala Municipality. All 26 — starting from the border of Metiabruz-Garden Reach up to Shyampur — have a sharp divide not only in terms of population but also in social and economic status. If the nearly 55% educated Hindu populace in the 25sq km from Shyampur to Bata-Nangi area thrives on service and business, the remaining 45% Muslim population, dotting the railway track from Brace Bridge to Akra, Memanpur and  , mainly depend on the garment industry.
 
 The minorities that make up a substantial voter base are expected to rally behind Trinamool. “In 2016, the Left Front candidate polled over 80,000 votes, which means a big section voted for them,” said Abdul Kasder Haldar, general secretary of Mahestala Town Congress. “Any division of Muslim votes may end up helping BJP. During our campaign, this message formed the crux of our outreach.”
 
 As Left candidate Prabhat Chowdhury is relatively young, the fight will be mainly between Trinamool and BJP. Political observers believe the BJP organisation is strong enough to match Trinamool’s in Maheshtala. Apart from  , in all three bypolls, BJP had ended up as the main contender to Trinamool. It is to be seen whether it can do a repeat in Maheshtala too.
 
 
