CHANDIGARH: Following a complaint by Sector 22 residents over contaminated water, MC officials during the course of checking found that the   pipeline of the area installed above the water pipeline is leaking leading to the problem. Taking a note of the seriousness of the problem, the concerned department immediately repaired the pipeline near house number 1400, but others in the area are waiting for their turn. Residents had written to the area councillor expressing their grievances following which a survey was done.

 As per a 2011 report which the Chandigarh MC’s public health department prepared, the existing pipelines in old sectors including 18, 19, 20, 22 and 23 have to be replaced as the distribution lines have already worn out and outlived their guaranteed period. The report added that all these pipelines were laid in ‘’50s or ’60s and there was no instrument available to keep a watch on leakage or bursting of the pipelines.
 
 Surprisingly there is no data available in the department about the points which could be the sources of major leakage in the underground pipelines. Officials said if any leakage was visible on the surface, the department could repair it, but when it came to underground pipelines they were clueless. 
 
 Sources in the department revealed that neither have they any instrument to check leakage in pipelines nor sufficient staff for monitoring. Earlier field staff personnel were deployed as patrolling staff by the public health department for monitoring leakage of pipelines. 
 
 Officials said that as majority of the pipelines are now covered under roads due to widening and laying of paver blocks, the department is cannot keep any manual monitoring of underground water leakages.
 
 Rajender Mohan Kasyhap, president of the resident welfare association said the residents have raised this issue a number of times with the authorities for the safety of the public in area but all in vain.
 
 Sushil Malhotra, general secretary government houses resident welfare society, Sector 22 said that he had taken up the issue with the councillor.   residents also gave a representation to the authorities about the defunct pipeline due to which they receive contaminated water in their houses. As per the Chandigarh MC records the water pipes which were installed in the residential area of Manimajra were almost 25-years-old. 
 
 Residents complained that as the water pipes are old and they suffer from rust leading to serious leakage problems. Neighbourhood parks with underground water pipes suffer from slush and the residents have complained against it over and over again. The MC staff briefly repaired the pipelines. 
 
 For Manimajra N P Sharma, superintendent engineer building and road of   said that the RWA informed them that MP   assured them to get the budget for the project released from the MPLAD fund and they have asked the association to take up the matter with her. He said that after the funds will be received the work of replacing the pipes will be started.
 
 
 
 I am aware of the matter and recently, got the sewerage pipeline of few houses repaired. The tender of the repair work of the sewerage pipelines across the city will be soon floated by the Chandigarh MC, under which the Sector 22 will also be covered
 
 Ravi Kant Sharma | MC councillor, Sector 22
 
 
