NEW DELHI: When   revamped their squad for the 11th season of the Indian Premier League (IPL) at January’s player auction, hope was renewed for the franchise’s fans. Daredevils have perennially been laggards in the IPL, rarely reaching the play-offs despite having several big-ticket players, but when the owners roped in  , Jason Roy, Colin Munro,   and Trent Boult and bought back Kagiso Rabada and Mohammed Shami, it looked like that had formed a squad capable of contesting the title in  . 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 What has panned out, however, has been a familiar tale of disarray, inconsistency and poor performances as a unit. Daredevils never got going and slumped to the bottom of the points table, and before the mid-point of   2018 they found themselves needing to win all their remaining matches to remain in contention for the playoffs. On Thursday, a crushing loss to table-toppers Sunrisers Hyderabad (Delhi is eighth in 11 matches), confirmed their exit from the tournament. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Losing Rabada before a ball was bowled and then Chris Morris before the mid-way mark of the season was a big blow to a franchise lacking in quality fast bowling. Trent Boult did what he could, but with Mohammed Shami having a poor tournament and Liam Plunkett trailing away after a three-wicket IPL debut, the bowling did not have enough bite. 
 
 
 
 
 At Rs 9 crore, Maxwell was Daredevils’ costlier purchase at the player auction. Three other franchises took plenty of interest in him, but a late bid from Daredevils upped the stakes from Rs 7 crore and the GMR-owned franchise eventually won the Australian allrounder. Maxwell’s poor form has been directly co-related to Daredevil’s awful performance this season: scores of 17, 13, 47, 4, 12, 27, 6, 5 and 9 with the bat, and five wickets at an economy rate of 8.25.
 
 
 
 In Munro and Roy, Daredevils have two explosive overseas openers but neither lived upto expectations or potential. Munro got the first two matches, made four runs and was dropped for Roy, who in his first innings powered a chase of 195 against Mumbai Indians with an unbeaten 91 off 53 balls. After that innings, Roy has managed 17 runs in three innings. Munro was slotted in for three more games and replied with 59 runs. 
 
 The overseas’ pairs struggles, allied with Gambhir’s struggles, meant that Daredevils were unable to put up strong starts. This put more responsibility on Shreyas Iyer,   and Maxwell, but only the Indian pair has managed any degree of success. 
 
 Once Daredevils locked in young batting prodigy Prithvi Shaw as one of the openers, the starts took better shape but overall, the franchise was not able to put up big starts like Chennai Super Kings, Kings XI Punjab and Mumbai did. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The decision to get back Gambhir, who led Kolkata Knight Riders to two IPL titles, to his first franchise, and as captain, appeared a sound decision. More so when Daredevils’ owners got the experienced batsman for Rs 2.80 crore from his base price of Rs 2 crore. Here was a player credited with turning around KKR’s fortunes with his innovative captaincy, crucial batting and selection of certain uncapped Indian and experienced overseas players, and who was the IPL’s fourth-highest run-getter. 
 
 Instead, the results were not what the owners would have desired. The 36-year-old managed 85 runs in five innings, of which 55 came in Daredevils’ first game, and at a very poor strike-rate of 96.59. Six matches into Daredevils’s campaign, Gambhir announced that he was stepping down as captain. Few could have been surprised when he did not play another game. 
 
 
 
 
 Boult’s boundary catch to dismiss Virat Kohli will top the highlights reels of IPL 2018 and will most likely be voted catch of the tournament, but there were far too many dropped catches and missed opportunities in the field. 
 
 Against KXIP, David Miller was dropped on 6 by Maxwell and 10 by Shaw. During Chennai Super Kings’ innings of 211/4, Munro dropped a sitter when Dhoni was on 31 and it proved costly as the batsman larruped his way to an unbeaten 51 off 22 balls. Against KKR, Roy dropped Andre Russell, and the West Indian proceeded to smack 41 off 12 balls. 
 
 In the second game against Rajasthan, when Daredevils were defending 52 off 18 balls, Iyer dropped K Gowtham at deep midwicket and allowed the ball to go for four. They eventually won by four runs, but it was further proof of a nervous franchise. In Daredevils’ first game against SRH, Maxwell spilled an easy catch at deep square leg to allow Alex Hales a life on 9, and in the closing stages of the game Vijay Shankar dropped Yusuf Pathan on 0 and the allrounder finished the game with an unbeaten 27. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 It may sound like a cliche, but in T20 its about grabbing the key moments and that’s what Daredevils have consistently failed to do. In game one against SRH, they got to 95/1 in ten overs but then managed 68 for the loss of four wickets in the second half to finish on 163 which was not enough. 
 
 In the season opener, Munro did not allow himself a single ball to suss out teenaged spinning sensation Mujeeb Ur Rahman; straight up, he went for a reverse-sweep and was lbw. In the next game against Rajasthan Royals, Munro ran himself out without facing a ball. 
 
 Against KKR at Eden Gardens, they conceded 199 out of which the first over was a maiden and the last worth just one run. During AB de Villiers’ onslaught, there were two missed run-outs. Against CSK, the bowlers conceded 74 in the last five overs and Pant sold Iyer down the river to run out his skipper. 
 
 Tactically, there was the mistake to drop Amit Mishra after the first game, in which the experienced legspinner was carted for 46 in four wicketless overs. Since he was brought back for Daredevils’ sixth match of the season, Mishra has taken six wickets in six matches with the lowest economy rate (7.68) of all the franchise’s bowlers. Shahbaz Nadeem, who was preferred to Mishra during this phase, has managed three wickets in six matches with an economy rate of 10.73. 
 
 
 
 
 Daredevils spent well at the player auction, but just have not been given the required consistency by their purchases. An abysmal season, once again, for the IPL’s perennial whipping boys. 
 
 
