Pune: Businessman Mahesh Kirad would regret stopping on a roadside to scratch his back at least for some time because it cost him Rs2.45 lakh on Friday afternoon.

 He was the latest victim of the itching powder gang, which struck again in the city with élan. After spraying itching powder on Kirad and diverting his attention towards “dirt”, three members of the gang fled with his bag containing Rs2.45 lakh near the Bank of Maharashtra’s Landewadi branch at MIDC Bhosari between 3pm and 3.30pm on Friday.
 
 Kirad (44) from Sector VII’s Visheshwar Housing Society in Bhosari withdrew Rs2.5 lakh from the bank for paying salary to his employees. He kept the cash in the bag, walked out of the bank and started his motorbike for going to his office.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone III) Ganesh Shinde told TOI, “Two minutes after the businessman left the bank, he stopped along the roadside and started scratching his back. One of the suspects riding on a motorbike came from the rear and stopped in front of his bike. He told Kirad to clean the shirt with water because it had some dirt.”
 
 Shinde said, “Kirad kept the cash bag on his bike when he received a call from his office. Two men riding on another motorbike came from the rear. Finding him busy and inattentive, they picked up his bag containing the cash and sped away. The man standing in front of the businessman also fled.”
 
 Realizing that he was foxed, Kirad chased the three men. He said, “I gave a hot chase to the bag-lifters but a bus came in my way. The panicked suspects took advantage of the situation and sped away. The incident has taught me a lesson. I need to remain alert while carrying cash.”
 
 MIDC Bhosari police’s inspector Rajendra Vibhandik said, “Investigations have revealed that the gang fled in the direction of Pune-Mumbai highway via Philips company, taking the Telco Road. Two of the suspects were riding on a black motorbike. We are working on certain clues and hope to bust the bag-lifting gang at the earliest.”
 
 Duo flee with bag
 
 Two men on a motorbike snatched a bag of a 26-year-old woman containing Rs25,000 and a cellphone on Swargate-Bibvewadi road around 12noon on Friday. The woman from Bibvewadi had encashed a cheque of Rs25,000 received from a self-help group from the bank and was on her way home. The suspects came from the rear, snatched her bag and fled.
 
 
