KOLKATA: The thrashing of a young couple for "public display of affection and obscene behaviour" on a Metro train evoked sharp reaction from youths, with "Hok Alingan (Let There Be Hugging)" groups gathering on Metro stations on Wednesday. Neither the young couple could be tracked nor was any FIR lodged in the case till late on Wednesday. 

 
 
  
  
 
 
 A video of moral policing incident which went viral on social media prompted Metro Railway to convene a press conference to explain its stand on a social issue. Metro Railway general manager   said, "We scrutinized the   footage but couldn't find anything concrete. We couldn't determine what happened and who were involved." Metro officials passed the buck on police claiming the incident to be a law and order issue, while police said they could do little in the absence of any formal complaint.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 "It (moral policing) will become acceptable behaviour if we don't protest. Couples tend to stand in close proximity in crowded Metro coaches. Ask any woman travelling in the Metro during office hours and they will narrate how they have been shoved, groped or pinched," college student Anuradha Jana, who was out there to voice her anger, said.
 
  
  
 
 
 Witnesses to the Monday's episode recalled how the young couple travelling by a Dum Dum-bound late-evening train were harassed by a section of commuters for standing too close to each other, then pushed out of the train at Dum Dum station and thrashed till some other commuters rescued them.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 "The young man and woman were standing close to each other when an elderly man commented aloud that the way they were standing was inappropriate. The young man retorted, prompting others to join in, and the situation flared up. Soon, invectives were being hurled at the couple," recalled a passenger. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Viewed as the city's lifeline, Metro commuters said couples standing close to each other on a train was commonplace. "No one bothers about them (the couples). It is only when someone passes a comment that the herd mentality takes over and others join in," a commuter said.
 
  
  
 
 
 "A young couple embraced in  . It made a bunch of frustrated old losers angry. They beat them up. Scenes of hatred are allowed. Scenes of love are considered obscene," tweeted writer Tasleema Nasreen, who herself was ousted from the city a few years ago.
 
