Poila Boishakh, for most Bengalis, means heading to the ghats early in the morning to offer prayers and for the businessmen among them, it marks the use of a brand new ledger or halkhata. Then of course, there’s the custom of donning new clothes and engaging in long hours of adda with family and friends. But how can any Bengali tradition be complete without food? So obviously, the day also brings with it a sizeable list of traditional treats. But then again, very few Bengalis drool over the traditional daab chingri, bhetki paturi, luchi-chholar dal or biryani nowadays. Instead, most have started to expand their palate and explore new tastes. As a result, city restaurants are whipping up   dishes, which have a hint of Bangaliana while being unique experiments in taste. CT visited a few such restaurants and spoke to the chefs behind such gastronomic marvels. So you better get your spoons and forks ready.

 
 “Cooking requires confident guesswork and improvisation - experimentation and substitution, dealing with failure and uncertainty, in a creative way”
 — Paul Theroux, American novelist
 
  
  
 Many Bengali delicacies have a strong influence of Bangladeshi cuisine. While both generally begin with a bitter starter, in West Bengal it’s common to start with shukto. In keeping with this, Holiday Inn Kolkata Airport executive chef   has prepared Bamun barir shukto — a Bangladeshi specialty, for the Poila Boishakh special menu. 
 Traditionally, shukto is bitter due to the presence of bitter gourd — the main ingredient of the dish. But Bamun barir shukto is bitter-sweet, with sweet potato replacing its more popular cousin. But what does the dish have to do with Brahmins? “The dish originated in Bangladesh’s Muslim-dominated   area, which was home to a handful of Bengali Brahmins ages back. They started preparing this shukto using a lot of milk, which gave it an extremely light texture. It’s almost like stew. They also used sweet potatoes to sweeten it along with other regular vegetables used in shukto,” Suman said. 
 Since most Bengalis love a subtle spicy taste in their food, Suman has used mustard or shorshe juice instead of the paste, which is normally added to shukto to give a pungent taste. 
  
  
 He also feels that Bengalis are more eager to experiment while travelling and no matter where they go, they typically try out either noodles, chilli chicken or biryani from the city they travel to. So, keeping this in mind, he has whipped up the dish, Chittaranjan Park-style hakka noodles.   or CR Park in New Delhi has a thriving Bengali community and this preparation, available in veg and non-veg variants, has a strong Delhi twist to it. “Unlike the hakka noodles available in Kolkata, this dish has way more veggies, as Punjabis in New Delhi love to have ample amounts of vegetables along with non-veg dishes. Moreover, I’ve used less of soya sauce and more of red chilli paste to make it spicier, just the way Delhites love it,” Suman told us.
  also has a bouquet of surprises lined up for Poila Boishakh. For one, he’s experimented with devil — a form of deep-fried chop — to come up with the Green apple-flavoured vodka and kuler achar-infused maachher devil. “Dimer devil, kuler achar and maachher chop are three traditional Bengali preparations. I’ve combined the three into one dish, which I’m sure will evoke memories with every bite.” In this starter, a fish chop mixture replaces the dimer devil crust and is paired with the hot and sweet kuler achar soaked overnight in green apple vodka. And the result is truly mind-blowing! 
  
  
 Then there’s Sambit’s khichuri twist — beer-reduced moong dal khichuri with grilled bacon rashers and mamlet (omelette) soufflé. Sounds yum, right? When we asked Sambit how did this idea of redefining the khichuri came about, he said, “It was an annual Naboborsho ritual when my parents would invite our neighbours for a Poila Boishakh dinner. The men would drink beer with maachh bhaja and later, all of us would gorge on moong dal khichuri, dimer mamlet (omelette) and gurer payesh. So, this dish is an ode to my childhood memories and the simplicity of every middle class Bengali’s merriment.” Explaining the method of cooking this unique dish, he added, “I cook the bhaja moong dal in beer instead of water for flavour and make a masala souffle of the mamlet and instead of maachh bhaja. Then I paired it with grilled bacon rashers.” Do try it at home.
 
 
 Fish has always been an inseparable part of a Bengali’s daily diet. So obviously, leaving it out of a Poila Boishakh menu would be nothing short of a cardinal sin. Enter chef Joymalya Banerjee of Bohemian who has planned an eclectic mix of starters and main courses for the Bengali New Year. One of our fave picks was the chitol dumplings stir fried with cracked pepper and curry leaves. 
  
  
 According to Joymalya, chitol has a lot of gelatinous connective tissues that give it a spongy and meaty texture and stir frying adds flavours and textures to any dish. “I’ve used traditional yet rarely used Bengali ingredients to create 
 this awesome journey into flavours and textures,” Joymalya told us. 
 Our next pick was the Chittagong chicken mousse and yoghurt phuchka. “Phuchka is one of the most eaten snacks in Kolkata and as an ingredient, it’s very interesting. It’s a neutral vessel with a crunch, so we use it where you can stuff anything into it. After that it’s all about combinations. Chittagong chicken mousse is inspired by the Chittagong style of cooking. It’s very spicy and uses a lot of garlic. The burn of the spices is cooled down by the yoghurt, making it a very interesting play of flavours and textures,” the chef added. 
  
  
 On the other hand, Fish Fish is busy cooking ilish, chingri and chitol in tribal and tandoori style and even with a unique Bengali twist. And their signature chingri bansh paturi is already a hot seller. Cooked in tribal style, the preparation for this dish begins with coating the prawns with mustard and coconut pastes and other spices, stuffed into the 
 bamboo piece, and cooked to perfection over low heat. The burnt smell of the bamboo blends perfectly with the prawn and the thick gravy, making it a delicious, aromatic dish.
  
  
 Next on their menu is the chitol maachher sheek kebab. Resembling the regular chicken or mutton sheek kebabs, these bite-sized delights just melt in your mouth. To prepare these, boneless chitol, marinated with rich spices and dollops of cheese, is cooked in a tandoor using sheeks and is served with a spicy mint sauce. Chef Debashish Kundu told us, “We specialise in fish and always keep trying to create innovative dishes. Hence, our dishes are not only about maachh, but much more than that.”
  
  
 
 
 While most restaurants are busy experimenting with Bengali cuisine, 6 Ballygunge Place, one of the first Bengali fine dining restaurants in the city, has come up with mocktails and coolers named after the residential addresses of iconic Bengali personalities. There’s 54A AJC Bose Road — a refreshing concoction of crushed mint leaves and lime wedges topped with soda and aerated drink — named after, of course, the home address of Netaji  .
  
  
 Then there’s the cooler, 1/1 Bishop Lefroy Road. Yes, you guessed it right; that’s Satyajit Ray’s residence. Speaking about the concept, a restaurant official told us, “We consciously decided to name the drinks after the addresses of famous Bengali personalities because it’s something unique and no restaurant has ever done this. If we had used their names, it would have sounded more like Kolkata metro stations.” 
  
  
 Other drinks on offer include 3 Gour Mohan Chatterjee Street, 4 Moira Street and 2/6 Biren Roy Road. Any guesses whose addresses are these?
 
 
 Sweets. Ah! This major weakness of the quintessential Bengali is the climax to any traditional feast, so how could it be any different on Poila Boishakh? And to make this Nabobarsho even sweeter, a new sweets shop in town,  , has come up with innovative sandesh varieties that resemble chocolate cakes and even ice creams! 
  
  
 Chef Debashish Kundu, who’s the brain behind these delicacies, said, “For several years, people of Kolkata have gorged on chocolate sandesh, aam doi and jol bhara sandesh, among others, but I wanted to introduce them to something extremely innovative. And what occasion can be more special than Poila Boishakh to launch these? 
 I hope it will be an extremely sweet experience for the customers.”
  
  
 Our best picks from Mishti Katha for Poila Boishakh are   gold sandesh, choco Eclairs sandesh, chocolate truffle cake sandesh and pina colada sandesh. As for the taste, yummy would be an understatement!
 
 
 
