PATNA: The anti-terrorism squad ( ) of Bihar police is in the process of creating a ‘book of war’ with architectural details and photographs of more than 80 vital installations across the state to remain prepared to counter terror attacks.

 The ‘book of war’, a special nomenclature used by security agencies, will contain elaborate details of all vital installations and structures. The agencies maintain architectural plans of vital installations, photographs of nearby bylanes, buildings and other locations for future use.
 
 Sources in state police headquarters said central intelligence agencies have identified more than 80 vital installations as sensitive in the state. Details of these installations are being added in the book to tackle any crisis situation.
 
 Hanuman Temple near Patna Junction, Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Gurdwara at Patna Sahib, Patna airport, Mahabodhi Temple in Bodh Gaya and some hotels and malls in the state capital have been identified as sensitive installations in the state.
 
 The ATS recently conducted mock counter-terrorism drills at Patna airport, Hanuman Temple and Patna Sahib gurdwara. A joint mock drill was also conducted by ATS and National Security Guard (NSG) at Bodh Gaya international airport in March last year.
 
 Sources said prior to these mock drills, ATS gathered details of the locations, including traffic routes. In course of the mock drills, photographs and videos of the locations and their surroundings were taken to boost the database.
 
 “The elite counter-terrorism wing of the state police will soon conduct mock drills at all the vital installations in the state earmarked by central intelligence agencies,” a senior IPS officer said on condition of anonymity.
 
 He said the process of creating the complete database of sensitive installations would be completed within a couple of years.
 
 Bihar has already witnessed two major terror attacks. Five persons, including two Buddhist monks, were injured in serial blasts at Mahabodhi Temple in Bodh Gaya on July 7, 2013. In another terror attack, six persons were killed and over 80 injured in multiple blasts that rocked Gandhi Maidan and Patna Junction, hours before the then prime ministerial candidate of BJP Narendra Modi was to address the party’s Hunkar rally here on October 27, 2013.
 
 
