PANAJI: Sports minister   wants to not just emulate but better Francisco Monte Cruz’s feat of building the Nehru Stadium at   in a record time.
 
  In 1988,   travelled to Silliguri and told the   (AIFF) that Goa wants to host the Nehru Cup, a popular international football tournament.   were more than willing but there was a problem; Goa didn’t have a stadium big enough to host such a tournament. Monte Cruz then agreed to build a new stadium and promised to complete work at the stadium in a record time.
  
  Backed by the then chief minister Pratapsingh Rane, Monte Cruz delivered on his promise to the AIFF and completed the stadium in a little over six months, an achievement that made him a legend.
  
  Azgaonkar is also racing against time as Goa gears to host the 36th edition of the   later this year – starting November 4 to be precise – and has told the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) that Goa remains on track. The only problem is that there are just seven months remaining; work on either the six new facilities that need to be constructed or five facilities that need to be refurbished, hasn’t even started.
  
  “Three tenders are out and the work order will be given soon. We will complete everything in five months. Contract will be awarded to whoever is willing to take up this challenge. We can pay a little more but we must host the National Games in 2018,” said Azgaonkar.
  
  Azgaonkar was the sports minister when the National Games were first allotted to Goa. Originally scheduled to be held in 2011, the 36th edition has been delayed several times, and with less than seven months remaining, another postponement seems certain.
  
  “This stadium itself was completed in six months. We can make it. The government did not support me in the past. I am not concerned what happened in the last five years. I was not the sports minister
  
  “This year we will host the National Games for sure. Hundred percent. Everyone is looking forward to the Games and chief minister Manohar Parrikar is supporting me too,” said Azgaonkar.
  
  During a closed-door meeting at the Nehru Stadium,  , chairman of the Games Technical Conduct Committee (GTCC) for National Games also had similar concerns. “If you couldn’t do it all these years, how will you do it in such a quick time,” the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) representative sought to know.
  
  Azgaonkar assured him that he would deliver. But given Goa’s abysmal record in the past – with Monte Cruz being an exception – everyone, including the IOA, will have to keep fingers crossed.
