KOCHI: Contractors who secured the right to run pay and park facilities in many pockets in the city are renting them out to bunk shops after charging daily rentals. A contractor, who rented out parking lots to bunk shop owners in three locations in the city, also rented out the parking lot on   road which is a vendor-free zone. 

 According to   authorities, illegal vendors who are evicted would soon erect their stall in the same spot. "On Park Avenue road, our officials had evicted a few unauthorized bunk shops. But these shops would again come up in the same spots," said mayor   during the council meeting on Wednesday. She asked the officials to act touch on the unauthorized vendors. Corporation secretary A S Anooja said that the officials had slapped fines on the offenders.
 
 "As per the law, the penalty for erecting vending stalls without authorization is Rs 500. We can slap 25% to 50% fine on them. This means that the maximum amount we can charge from an unauthorized bunk shop owner is Rs 250," Anooja said. The mayor wanted to know how these shop owners could erect shops on Park Avenue road which is a vending free zone.
 
 The same contractor rented out space earmarked for parking lot near Jayalakshmi textiles for running a wayside eatery. "As the contractor rents out the parking lots, vehicle owners find it difficulty in parking. It is learnt that the contractor charges daily rent of Rs 800 from the person who runs the eatery," said Sudha Dileepkumar, councillor from Ernakulam Central division.
 
 C K Peter from Konthuruthy division said illegal street vendors occupy every vacant spot they find. "Concrete slabs have been placed across Mullassery Canal near Maharaja's College stadium and stalls have come up there. There are efforts for placing concreate slabs across other canals for erecting bunk shops," Peter said. Mayor Soumini Jain said that there are councillors who come with recommendations against evicting unauthorised vendors. Mayor urged such councillors not to approach her with recommendation for unauthorized vendors. There are also allegations that some councillors are collecting up to Rs 200 from vendors daily for protecting them.
 
 The council also witnessed uproarious scenes over the list of street vendors prepared by welfare standing committee chaired A B Sabu for rehabilitation.  , a   councillor, said that there are allegations that the vendors are being charged Rs 25,000 for including their names in the list. However, A B Sabu denied these allegations.
 
 
