The mellow tunes of santoor played by   provided a perfect start to this musical evening held in memory of tabla wizard Late   on Friday. As the Padma Shri awardee explored the beauty of the evening raag Bhoopali ably accompanied by Pandit Chatur Lal’s grandson Pranshu Chatur Lal, the audience went ‘wah, wah kya baat’ in unison at the end of every crescendo. After an enthralling hour of santoor, it was time for the flute wizard to take to the stage. Pt   began his performance with a soulful rendition of the melodious raga Bihag. And for the next hour or so everything else faded into oblivion as the magic of 
his phoonk infused euphony in every piece that he played, accompanied by tabla maestro Pt Ram Kumar Mishra and his student Debopriya on flute.
  After the concert, Hyderabad Times caught up with the flute maestro for a heart-to-heart chat and to know more about the table wizard. Excerpts. 
 
 
 “Pandit Chatur Lal ji was one of the first percussionists from India to achieve international acclaim. He not only introduced tabla in the West, but also made it popular, not just in India but around the world. Back then he used to travel a lot with Pandit Ravi Shankar ji. While he wowed the masses with his sitar, Chatur Lal ji’s magic fingers would create a storm that blew the audience away. He also introduced the concept of Taal Vadya Kacheri,” began the 79-year-old lauding paying homage to the tabla legend from Udaipur, in whose memory the event,  , 
 was organised by the Pandit Chatur Lal Memorial Society at Ravindra Bharathi. 
 
 One anecdote sums up the eminence Pandit Chatur Lal enjoyed in his hey day. Apparently, Queen Elizabeth once missed his concert in London, and asked the then Prime Minister Nehru if she could meet Chatur Lal during her visit in India in 1962. Thus, a special concert was organised for her featuring the tabla wizard in Rashtrapati Bhawan. 
 “He is one of those geniuses who lived a short life, but left behind an ever-lasting impact in the world of music. We never got much time to bond, because we were so busy with our concert. But the little I know of him, I can say, he was a man with a golden heart. Aapne kala mein hi dube rahte the, he was always talking about tabla. I never saw him sitting idle without his instrument. Even while having a conversation he used to play tabla. Yeh log usi ke liye paida hue the, tabla ke liye paida hue aur tabla ko leke chale gaye,” he recalled. 
 
 
 The conversation gradually drifted to the contemporary classical music scene in India. With genres like pop, hip hop, rap and EDM ruling the roost, the general impression is that classical Indian music has lost its charm; that the industry has evolved into a shallow, image-obsessed one. But the Padma Vibhushan awardee feels it’s just the opposite. “Swar hai to Ishwar hai, aur Ishwar ne hi to swar banaya na. There’s nothing called bad music. It depends on how one takes it, and how an artiste presents it to the world. Bolne wale to bolenge hi. Bana kaun raha hai, ban kyun raha hai aur aap ko usmein shikayat kya hai? If you have a problem with it, why don’t you make your own music?,” he retorts.
 
 
 Recently, singer-turned-Union Minister,   recently made headlines calling for a temporary ban on Pakistani artistes in Bollywood. When asked what he thought about the suggestion, Chaurasia dismissed it as a ‘stunt to be in the news’. He said, “I have performed in Pakistan many times and all I got from them was warmth, generosity and admiration. Sirf humare upar juloom nahi ho raha, un logo ke upar bhi ho raha. They too are human beings, just like us, it’s the politicians who play politics, beech mein aam aadmi piste hai,” he said adding, “Who made Pakistan? Banaya kyun? Now that you have made it, you have to face the consequences. India is not the evil twin, nor is Pakistan. Common man is not 
 waging wars or supporting terrorism, or freedom movement, as they call it; it’s the politicians. And by doing so they are forcing us to finance wars in the border, with our own brothers.”
 
 
