NEW DELHI: The Indian cricket board ( ) has dismissed advice from   and decided to persist with an old, outdated coaching manual as it restarts a programme to train lower-levels coaches.

 
 
 The programme stalled three years ago when current India ‘A’ and U-19 coach Dravid pointed out that the coaching manual at the   ( ) was “outdated”.
 
 The board, caught up in legal issues, has struggled to put an updated manual in place. It is learnt that the board had tried to outsource the job to a private firm earlier this year. “There was an effort to get the job done through a private firm. But negotiations between the two did not work out,” a top BCCI official told TOI. The firm approached for the job is the same one hired to draft the BCCI’s domestic calendar.
 
 The development comes at a time when the board has been talking up Rahul Dravid’s contributions as a coach. “Interestingly, Dravid had recommended upgrading the manual even before he was officially made the coach of the junior teams. Now, his first idea has been shelved,” a BCCI member said. “The board tried out an exchange programme for coaches with Cricket Australia but didn’t get desired results. Then it was decided to outsource the job.”
 
 The board conducted ‘Level A’ exams in February-March this year. While the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA) has been assured the programme has been conducted in a transparent manner, it is learnt NCA officials have largely left it to local associations to shortlist candidates from their states. “There have been allegations of bias since NCA officials aren’t individually shortlisting candidates,” a source told TOI.
 
 The Indian cricket board (BCCI) has dismissed advice from Rahul Dravid and decided to persist with an old, outdated coaching manual as it restarts a programme to train lower-levels coaches.
 
 However, a board official claimed the programme had to “start from somewhere”. “Nothing was moving. The current officials in cricket operations felt that the previous manual is good enough for this level of coaching. There are a lot of people who had cleared Level A. The Level B programme will start soon,” he said.
 
 It is also learnt that the board has decided to bring about uniformity in wages for coaches, physiotherapists and trainers at the Zonal Cricket Academy and NCA.
 
 
