She was one of   television’s most sought-after actresses before she decided to shift her focus to acting in movies. A few years, several ups and downs and an umpteen number of films later,   is yet to equal the heights she had attained on the small screen. But as the actress told CT during a candid chat, she still has miles to go, despite being part of six films releasing within June, including Kamaleswar Mukherjee’s Goodnight City, which is running in theatres. Excerpts from the chat:

 
 
 I’ll soon start shooting for Supriyo Sen’s film Konya, which also stars Parambrata (Chatterjee) as my husband and Ritwick (Chakraborty) as a journalist. It’s the story of a middle-class girl married into an affluent family. But when she conceives, the family refuses to accept it, forcing her to run away to give birth to her child. Whether she’s successful is what the film is all about. It shows how a girl child is still not accepted in society. I’m also part of another film with a new director — a love story that features Ritwick Chakraborty opposite me.
 
 
 
 I play Subhomita, a smart, urban woman. But I can’t reveal anything more, as the film is a thriller. The character has a lot of shades — at times the audience will feel she’s cunning, but the very next moment, she seems kind. But I must say Kamalda ( ) is a great director to work with. He gives his cast a lot of liberty and whatever little I could do with the character is because of him.
 
 
 
 Well, I do feel bad, if not frustrated. There are so many films I reject and later regret. I usually give my nod if I get a kick out of the script. But after watching some films I’d rejected, I felt they were much better made than what the script sounded like. I do take wrong decisions and I’m to be blamed for that. Even my hairdresser often asks me why I refuse so many films. But I’m like that — a little moody at times. 
 
 
 
 I don’t think so. You can ask the directors I work with now whether I’m moody, arrogant or unprofessional. But yes, I’m not a person who is 
 always politically correct; I’m bit of a moofat. But I am much calmer now.
 
 
 
 Not really. I’m flexible that way. If I like the script, money really doesn’t matter. But then, there are production houses that pay me what I deserve.
 
 
 
 Frankly speaking, I won’t be able to take the pressure when I have to say yes to all projects just to be able to pay EMIs. That way I’m lucky and hence, a little choosy about work. There was a year when I was only travelling and not doing any work.
 
 
 
 That’s not always true. I wanted to be a part of Kishore Kumar Junior, even told Kaushikda (Ganguly) about it, but there was no suitable role for me.
 
 
 
 I want to do non-fiction on the small screen, as I’ve done all possible roles in fiction and have bagged almost all awards. I was just 22 when I used to be nominated for best actress awards along with stalwarts like Roopa Ganguly and Indrani Haldar. I was also the highest paid small screen actress. Then I realised that I’d nothing more to give. That’s when I decided to try my luck in films.
 
 
 
 At 26, I was doing well in my career. (After a pause) I feel in the phase when I was with Agnidev Chatterjee, I was extremely childish, funny and immature. I was an emotional fool. But I don’t blame anyone. He’s a good director and under him, I’d done Sanai, which gave me immense popularity. I don’t even remember how many shows I did at that time — Khela, Sanai, one after another, I had all the hit serials in my kitty. I’m still emotional and egotistic, but now I don’t react at all. Time has taught me to be patient and composed. I still have mood fluctuations, but when in a good mood, I think I’m the best possible person to have around.
 
 
 Yes I was, but we broke up last October after five years of courtship. And I guess he’s getting married now. I wish him luck in his new journey. The relationship suffered because both of us are extremely egotistic. We do such foolish things when we are in love. But then, the damage is already done.
 
 
 (Laughs) There is no secret. I work out when I’m in the mood. But yes, I have a sweet tooth and usually eat something sweet every night.
 
 
 
