The palace of the patriarch, or archbishop’s house, in Altinho, Panaji, is certainly an imposing structure with its high ceilings, wooden floors, and drawing rooms filled with exquisite Indo-Portuguese, carved furniture and a throne room with a majestic portrait gallery boasting paintings of all the archbishops Goa has seen.

 If this is not impressive enough, the building, built around 1894, has been home to five Portuguese archbishops, two Goan archbishops and, for three days, even the then head of the   — Pope John Paul II. 
 
 
  
 
 Today, archbishop patriarch Filipe Neri Ferrao, the second Goan archbishop of Goa and Daman, occupies the house along with archbishop emeritus  , the first Goan archbishop of Goa and Daman.
 
 Incidentally, the first Goan bishop to head the Church in Goa, bishop Dom Francisco da Piedade Rebelo was never made the archbishop of Goa and Daman since patriarch Dom Jose Vieira Alvernaz, who left the country during Liberation, took the title with him.
 
 The archdiocese had to be governed by somebody, so Rebelo, who served as auxiliary bishop to the patriarch, was elevated as apostolic administrator of the archdiocese in 1966 to administer the diocese in the name of the archbishop, secretary to the archbishop, Fr Joaquim Loiola Pereira says. Only when he reached the age of retirement did he pave the way for Gonsalves to become the first Indian and Goan archbishop of Goa.
 
 The Catholic archbishop of Goa is also one of the few in the world to hold the prestigious honorific title of ‘patriarch’ that was bestowed by the Holy See in Rome. The archbishop of Venice in Italy and archbishop of Lisbon also hold this honorific title that was originally reserved for the bishops of the principal diocese of Rome, Constantinople, Alexandria, Antioch and Jerusalem, Pereira says. 
 
 Ferrao today has 172 parishes spread over Goa, Daman, Diu and Dadra Nagar and Haveli under his jurisdiction. He lives on the first floor of the ground-plus -one-structure. The same floor houses an impressive portrait gallery of all the archbishops of Goa. These are in the last leg of being restored. 
 
 The palatial residence with a plinth area of 2,000sqm took a little over five years to build and was commissioned by patriarch  . It also houses the offices of the patriarchal tribunal, the chancery office, the treasury department and spacious residential rooms for the archbishop’s close aides. In fact, in 1986, during Pope John Paul’s visit to Goa between February 5 to 7, he stayed in the house along with his cardinals and security. 
 
 The structure also hosts the secretariat of confraternities and fabricas that oversee the management of church properties. A room full of archival material receives visits from researchers from around the globe while another hall has copies of all birth, marriage and death records of all parishes since 1915. 
 
 The patriarchal palace has two chapels, one for the worship of the residents and the other which is open to the faithful of the neighbourhood with daily services in Konkani and English. 
 The archbishop earlier resided in the episcopal palace contiguous to Se Cathedral in Old Goa, and later in Panelim, Santa Inez, and what is now Institute de N Sra De Piedade or   that today hosts key diocesan departments related to education, planning and
 social action. 
 
 The present archbishop’s house is situated metres away from the official residence of the chief minister and in the midst of other state ministers and top civil and judicial authorities.
 
 
