SALEM: Days after the Madras high court allowed a petition seeking the mercy killing of the   temple elephant,  , the animal succumbed to its injuries and other diseases here on Saturday. The 38-year-old elephant was on deathbed for more than six weeks.

 Hearing about the elephant’s demise, several hundred devotees thronged the temple property near  , where the elephant was held captive, to pay their tributes.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Salem district collector Rohini R Bhajibhakare, deputy commissioner of police G Subbulakshmi and other officials also paid their last respects to Rajeswari.
 
 Activists, meanwhile, held the officials of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department and   responsible for the animal’s death, saying “they failed to give proper treatment to the elephant”.
 
 Salem district   president R P Gopinath alleged that officials might have poisoned the temple elephant over a period of time.
 
 Born with deformation in its left forelimb, the elephant had to stand on its right forelimb all these years. The elephant was, however, not able to move recently after it developed lameness in the right forelimb.
 
 To add to the woes, one of its tusks had broken on March 18 as it fell down when HR&CE officials lifted the animal using an earthmover. Following this, the elephant could hardly eat anything due to the pain in the mouth area.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, Chennai-based activist A Muralidharan moved the Madras high court seeking the mercy killing of the elephant. The court allowed the petition saying euthanasia can be performed if veterinarians were to certify that the animal could not be cured and sought a report within 48 hours.
 
 Subsequently, a three-member team of veterinary specialists had on Wednesday examined the ailing elephant, to see whether the animal was responding to the treatment and its health could be restored. The team had said the elephant’s condition was good and its wounds were healing fast.
 
 When everyone was praying for its recovery, the elephant suddenly died on Saturday around 12.30pm. “The elephant slightly lifted its legs and suddenly dropped. When I checked the animal, there was no movement,” mahout L Baskar told TOI.
 
 After the autopsy, the carcass of the elephant was buried in the captive area in the evening.
 
 HR&CE officials, meanwhile, closed the Arulmigu Sugavaneswarar temple on Saturday. They said the temple would be opened on Sunday morning after performing special pujas.
 
 
