HYDERABAD: A man high on liquor rammed his   Tata Hexa into a two-wheeler which had two women driving pillion at   Road No. 10 well past midnight, killing one of the women on the spot. Two others were shifted to hospital, where one of them is critical.

 Jubilee Hills   said the deceased, Mastani, 37, and two others, Anusha Reddy, 30, and Anusha, 19, were triple-riding at around 1 am on Sunday. When they reached Diamond Point on Jubilee Hills Road No. 10, a speeding car hit their bike from the rear. The impact tossed the three women in the air and they lay sprawled in blood on the street. While Anusha Reddy is battling for life in hospital, the teenager, Anusha, suffered minor injuries.
 
 After the accident, the tipsy SUV driver,  , pressed on the accelerator to flee the spot and again lost control. He rammed his car into a road divider, 500m from the accident site, and lost consciousness in the impact. Air bags of his car ejected and he was unhurt. The irony in the tragedy lies in the fact that the Jubilee Hills police were conducting a drive against drunk driving at that time.
 
 
  
 
 Patrolling police parties reached the spot and shifted all three women to a private hospital, where Mastani was declared dead. The accused, Vishnu Vardhan, who was unconscious, was taken into police custody.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Jubilee Hills inspector K Purna Chander said, Vishnu Vardhan is owner of Bright Park Play School in Himayathnagar. “He was driving under the influence of alcohol and hit the bike. The women were coming from Kukatpally and were on their way to Srinagar Colony,” said the police officer.
 
 Vishnu was coming from Madhapur and heading towards Himayathnagar. When he was made to take a breath-analyser test, his blood alcohol count touched 206 mg/100
 
 During investigation, when Anusha, 19, was questioned by police on their late night tryst and her relationship with other two women, Anusha was vague in her replies. The teenager claimed she arrived in Kukatpally, a day ago to meet her aunt, Niharika. From Niharika’s residence, Mastani and Anusha Reddy picked her up for spending the night at their Srinagar Colony house for couple of days.
 
 
  
 
