CHENNAI: The Madras high court order restraining Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) from finalising tenders for   has opened a can of worms about the way the tenders were awarded. 

 These tenders pertained to a plaza at the entrance of new concourse of the station and another in-between   (MMC) and Central. Sources said that before awarding the contracts for the two food plazas at Central on May 30, nine players who had participated in the tender process were disqualified citing lack of proper documents pertaining to the finances of their other railway units, like pantry car and static units.
 
 In this regard, one of the participants, Ganga Sweets, has written to IRCTC stating that they were not called for opening of the financial bids. IRCTC officials in Chennai declined to comment, saying they were not authorised to speak to the media. Sources however said that decisions regarding the tender opening were taken in New Delhi. 
 
 The tender in question was opened a day after TOI had reported a three-month delay in a contractor setting up a food plaza in the new concourse. After the report, top officials in Southern Railway asked IRCTC to fast-track the process of identifying contractors for the other two food plazas. 
 
 Following this, IRCTC, which had already shortlisted 12 contractors after technical bids on February 9, sent e-mails on May 29 stating that financial bids would be opened the next day to all the parties. However, by noon on May 30, all participants except three, got a disqualification e-mail. 
 
 KM Mustafa, who operates a food plaza at Tambaram station, one of the largest in the country, is another participant who was disqualified and the petitioner of the case in high court. He has stated that his financial bid was higher than that of the eventual winner, but his bid was disqualified due to 'non fulfilment of eligibility criteria as defined in Annexure B'.
 
 Ganga Sweets, in a letter to IRCTC, questioned the last minute rejection. "There are precedents that if additional documents were required, it could have been sought. Disqualification without adhering to a transparent process is a matter of serious concern," the letter said.
 
 
