PATNA: The state government on Thursday submitted a supplementary counter affidavit before the   appraising it that Rs 1100 crore would be disbursed before June 30 this year to all the universities across Bihar for payment of all types of   benefits majorly pension to former university employees. Bihar altogether has 14 general and 4 techinical and agricultural universities.

 The state government also submitted before the court that apart from the above fund which would be handed over to the universities, more than Rs 500 crore is already lying with them which is solely for purpose for disbursement of funds to retired employees.
 
 The state said that with the help of the fresh allocated fund, the universities would have to disburse all dues to it respective retired employees till July 31 this year.
 
 The state government submitted the affidavit over a public interest litigation filed by one Krishna Kant Sinha who is a retired professor of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University (BRABU) which had come up for hearing before the bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice Rajeev Ranjan Prasad.
 
 Advocate General Lalit Kishore appeared for the state government before the bench while Sinha was represented by the counsel Kishore Kumar Thakur and DK Sinha. Education department principal secretary RK Mahajan was also present before the bench as the court on May 2 had ordered him to remain present during hearing on Thursday for replying queries.
 
 However, the state government did not mentioned anything that what all decisions were taken to ensure that retired employees of all universities across Bihar would get pension on due date of each month.
 
 Earlier on April 2, the high court had asked the state government to reply that what decision and steps were taken to ensure that the retired employees of the universities across Bihar get their pension on due date. The court was also apprised about a meeting premised by Kishore along with Mahajan and vice-chancellors of all universities that took place to take decision on the issue.
 
 Huge number of litigations are pending before the high court which are solely related to the non-payment of retirement benefits to university employees in Bihar.
 
