BHOPAL: The Bhopal Municipal Corporation’s Rs 1,995-crore budget was passed in just 40 minutes amid pandemonium on Saturday with Congress and ruling BJP corporators clashing over the council’s move to present the budget on ‘Hanuman Jayanti’.

 The   session began at 10.55 am and was adjourned at 11.35 am. Mayor Alok Sharma and BJP corporartors were miffed by Congress corporators move to perform ‘puja’ on the floor of the House. The situation got tense when Sharma moved close to the speaker’s chair and lash out at unruly Congress members. “Criticism, protests and demonstrations are part and parcel of the political system, but performing puja in protest is unethical,” said Sharma, who was forced to conclude his budget speech in just 20 minutes. Thereafter BMC chairman Surjeet Singh Chouhan declared the budget as passed and adjourned the session, but Congress members sat outside the room, where BJP corporators were holding discussions. The sit-in lasted for over an hour. BJP has an absolute majority in the 85-member BMC council.
 
 When the mayor came out of the meeting, the situation appeared to be cooling down. But the ruckus began all over again when mayor Sharma indicated that leader of opposition had worn shoes during the puja, which was objected by the opposition. Mayor left the council building and was followed by Congress corporators. At first they stood in front of the mayor’s official vehicle and blocked his car’s movement. Therafter, Sharma took another car to evade the protestors. However, that car was also stopped by Congress corporator Amit Sharma resulting in heated argument between the mayor and five corporators. Eventually, Amit and others had to make way for the vehicle.
 
 As soon as the major left, congress corporator Monu Saxena entered into a scuffle with BJP corporator Manoj Rathore. With police nowhere in sight, independent corporator Mohamamed Saud intervened to control the situation. To make things worse, Congress corporator Santosh Kanjana alleged that her dress was improperly touched by Rathore. 
 
 Later, senior Congress corporator Girish Sharma admitted that the protest could have been handled better. “The situation arose because the mayor did not hold any discussion and the budget was passed. A discussion would have exposed the BJP’s failures,” he said.
 
 Observers said that action against Congress corporators is highly likely. BMC chairman Chouhan said that an FIR against Congress leader Mohammed Sagheer is being contemplated. “A decision would be taken after discussions,” he said. BMC commissioner Priyanka Das was not present during the session.
 
 
