Ludhiana: Before the implementation of the Punjab Municipal Outdoor Advertisement Policy, 2018, the civic officials will bring about a resolution to constitute an Advertisement Regulatory Committee (ARC) and also frame bylaws in the MC house for approval. Apart from this, the department has also submitted a report regarding feasible sites in the city where advertisements can be displayed as per the policy. The MC officials said the house members will decide on the rates of the advertisements on the main road. However, mayor Balkar Sandhu said no policy will be finalised without a nod from the MC house members.

 According to the advertisement policy, a regulatory committee has to be formed to fix the rates and ensure proper implementation of the policy. Apart from this, the department will have to frame bylaws within two months. That is not all. An online complaint redressal system is also to be developed. The appointment of the nodal officers is also to be decided. Primarily, the officials are planning to hand over the responsibility to either zonal commissioners or advertisement superintendents. However, the final decision will be taken after a discussion in the MC house. The secretary of MC Surinder Pal said, “We cannot fix any type of rates without getting an approval from the house members.”
 
 Mayor Sandhu also said that the MC house members will discuss the policy and suitable suggestions will be sent to the government for any kind of change. Meanwhile, the civic officials have been told to take action against the illegal encroachments where hoardings are not allowed as per the policy within 10 days.
 
 Survey identifies ad spaces in city
 
 Recently, the civic officials have conducted a survey in the city through a private company regarding the probable sites for advertisements. As per the report of the company, there are 2,433 total spaces available where advertisements can be displayed. From bus shelters, dustbins, benches, unipoles to vending kiosks, the private firm officials have identified several spots for advertisements. The survey mentions that maximum advertisement space is available in zone D where the company has identified 1,338 sites. But in the 100-page report, M/s DDB Mudramax Pvt Ltd did not include pole kiosks and footover bridges, which are included in the policy. The officials in their report mentioned that there are 6 footover bridges and around 3000 kiosks in the city.
 
 
