Sniffing a political opening in the wake of Dalit unrest over Koregaon Bhima,   has decided to launch an extensive mass connect programme across Maharashtra this month to mobilise the major communities against the ruling  . 

 Sources said Congress chief   has cleared the plan for "Parivartan Yatras" in the state where the party has been relegated to the margins of power since its defeat in the elections in 2014.
 
 The yatra will be launched from Kolhapur in western Maharashtra, covering key districts of Satara, Sangli and Pune. It will then be taken to the other regions.
 
 The six-month programme touching all 288 assembly constituencies has been designed to tap into the "anger among key social blocs". While Marathas took out massive silent marches in 2017, Dalit protests have rocked the government in the new year.
 
 "From farmers' suicides to the Koregaon Bhima incident, we will go to people on all issues. Till BJP is in power, Maharashtra cannot move forward. This government is responsible for the state's situation over three and half years. Only Congress can take the state forward," state party chief Ashok Chavan told TOI. 
 
 Saying BJP tried to be "too clever by half", Chavan alleged the ruling party used Hindutva elements like Shambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote to provoke attacks in Koregaon Bhima to trigger religious polarization. "Unfortunately for them, it has turned the Dalits against BJP... Marathas are already against them. Dhangars are angry because they have gone back on their promise of reservation," he claimed.
 
  In what has become a political euphemism for targeting CM Devendra Fadanavis, Chavan said the all-round unrest under BJP rule was a reminder of the charge of Dalits in the battle of Koregaon Bhima 200 years ago. "Dalits fought against the Peshwa then. It is the same situation today," he said. 
 
 The former CM said "there was a clear hand of Hindutva outfits", including RSS, in the attack. "BJP tried polarisation in Gujarat but it was checked by Rahul Gandhi's campaign. They have now tried the same in Maharashtra."
 
 Chavan backed the Dalit protests against BJP. "The Dalit community is so enlightened in Maharashtra, they saw through the game," he said.
 
 
