KOCHI: With a job recruitment racket coming to light again in Kochi, the city police plans to launch a special drive to crackdown on fake recruitment agents, who lure the young with promise of job in Kerala and abroad.

 
 The department had in June 2017 launched a special operation titled ‘Operation Black Fly’ which targeted unauthorized overseas recruitment agencies. With scamsters now opting to offer jobs within the state as well, police plan a blanket operation to crackdown on scamsters trying to dupe gullible job aspirants.
 
 According to senior police officials, the department has already started to collect information on historysheeters who are involved in similar offences in the past and on recruitment agencies to find those who are running without the required certifications.
 
 Police switched into alert mode after an investigation into a gang which got busted on Tuesday night found that the accused duped at least 18 job aspirants. Cops arrested one more person in the case on Wednesday.
 
 The accused identified as   Nambiar, Selva Kumar, Karthick and   conudcted interviews claiming that they are recruiters for the  . The accused had spread the fake job offering through text messages. Cops nabbed them as soon as the   approached them with a complaint. It was   (30), wife of Sreejith who was arrested on Wednesday.
 
 “At least Rs2 lakh was collected from various persons. Sreejith, a Thiroor native who is residing in Chennai is the kingpin of the gang. It was in his name they took a room in a fivestar hotel in the city. They had conducted interviews for a day before getting busted,” said   SI VS Syamkumar.
 
 The officers added that at least four job aspirants who were tricked have approached them. “We are trying to get in touch with all those who got tricked. As many as four people who are from Chennai had approached us already. The exact number of those who were duped by the gang can only be known in the coming days,” said the SI adding that their bank accounts are being checked.
 
 The accused were booked for cheating and forging documents in the name of AAI.
 
 Crime Branch assistant commissioner   said that such rackets can be eliminated only with the cooperation of the public.
 
 “Aspirants should stay vigilant and alert officers in case of any suspicious activity by the recruiter. He added that an enquiry with the Protector of Emigrants (PoE) is mandatory in case of going for an overseas job,” said George.
 
