On some days, the best I could do was breathe,” says   as she reminisces about her son,  , who succumbed to a terminal illness in 2015. The townsfolk of St George, Ontario, Canada came together to celebrate an early Christmas for him because doctors feared he might not live till December. Life has thrown many a tough situation at Nicole but she has faced them all with a lump in the throat and a brave face. In Kolkata for the theatrical release of Srijit Mukherji’s  , the story of which is based on Evan, Nicole sat for a chat with CT on a sultry afternoon. 

 
 
 
 N: Back in 2015, I could have never imagined that three years down the line I’d be in Kolkata to watch a film based on Evan. It was overwhelming to know that what happened in St George inspired an Indian filmmaker. As his mother, it’s an honour and a blessing to watch Uma in Kolkata. I am truly humbled that we have been extended this offer.
 
 
 
 N: I was approached by Srijit on Facebook. He had read about Evan’s story and was moved by it.
 S: I came to know about Evan’s story through Facebook. The news popped up on my timeline and I started processing it mentally. Once I had structured the story in my mind, I got in touch with Nicole. She kept giving me all the emotional ingredients required to write a script of such nature.
 
 
 N: I am a small-town country girl and the Christmas celebration for Evan moved me. Never before had I seen or received love from so many people. It was hard to wrap my mind around it. When we were approached for Uma, I was surprised! I thought to myself, ‘India! A filmmaker in India has been inspired by Evan’s story!’ It was too good to be true.
 S: Nicole was moved by the fact that Evan’s story stirred me emotionally. We were both overwhelmed. Whether the characters will change a bit wasn’t the point anymore. It was about telling the story of a child, his mother and the people of a small town, who did everything they could to put an untimely Christmas together.
 
 
 
 N: There was a balloon that Evan got at the hospital. Balloons always lose their form with time but for some odd reason, it is still beside his hospital bed in perfect form. It has almost become Evan. Every time I look at the balloon, I see him.
 S: These small anecdotes replenished my thought process as well. The script kept evolving. People selflessly coming together to give Evan an untimely Christmas is altruism of incredible magnitude. I get goosebumps thinking of it.
 
 
 
 N: Yes, plans are underway to show Uma to the people of St George. We have selected a park where they have placed a memory bench in Evan’s honour. It’s fitting to screen the film there — it’s like bringing Uma to a place where Evan’s presence is. The bench overlooks the park. It’s as if Evan is overlooking all the children there (chokes).
 
 
 
 N: After Evan left us, I thought everything that he left behind would also slowly pass away. But I opened up to Srijit and shared all that I had kept inside; everything I was keeping to myself and not wanting to confront. My life was all about caring for him. When all of that was gone — no more hospital visits and holding him to make sure he was okay — I lost a part of me (chokes).
 S: It was a cathartic experience for both Nicole and me. I was going through a lot of emotional recalling too. I ended up delving into portions that choked me. It was a trigger for me and everyone on the sets as well. I would keep her updated about the shoot. It’s almost like I held her and Evan’s hands and walked them through the journey. I always thought that they were both with me while I was filming it. Before we shot the climax, I told everyone about Evan’s story. There was pin-drop silence and the shot was okayed in one take. No one needed glycerine; all of them welled up. These are the things that make Uma the most special film I have ever made.
 
 
 
 N: I had to take some time off after Evan passed away. It left a huge void in my heart and I didn’t know how to move on. But Uma has brought Evan’s name back to the fore. People are reaching out to me now. As a grieving mother, you want your child to be remembered. With this film, Evan’s name will be woven into a fabric of a far bigger scale and I feel blessed. 
 
 
  
 N: Yes. Uma has given me a lot of hope and has once again fuelled that inspiration in me. The fact that I am in India has brought a lot of greatness to my life. It’s almost like recreating Christmas for Evan.
 
 
 
 N: I was speechless and in awe. What I felt after watching the trailer is inexplicable. The part where Sara (Sengupta) asks why they are ringing in the festival early totally captures the innocence of a child. By just watching the brief trailer, I was drawing parallels with Evan’s life. Even though it has been adapted in an Indian context, the story is essentially the same.
 S: Festivals sometimes divide us. But the core emotions of philanthropy and selfless humanity remain the same. It is remarkably coincidental that a Bengali, of all people, stumbled upon the story of an untimely Christmas — something that rings a bell with Akal Bodhon, an uncustomary time to ring in Durga Puja. This adaptation seemed almost preordained.
 
 
 
 N: I’m very excited. I need someone to hold on to while I watch the film. I think it’s going to be uplifting but it will also be an emotional ride — emotions that I don’t want to hide. My mind is in awe right now. We started putting this together a year ago and we are here now!
 
 
 
 N: I just signed on with a publishing company and co-authored a book called The Boy Who Moved Christmas. The French film, Le Noél des Anges, is underway too. I’m excited about both.
 
 
 
 N: I am trying to bring about awareness and raise money so no child has to go through what Evan suffered. The foundation is a part of my being.
 
 
 
 
