AHMEDABAD: The   deprecated   actions to curb the free flow of   in the state and directed the state government to act against cops for shielding  .

 Justice S H Vora on Tuesday observed that investigators often file “designed FIRs” in bootlegging cases, which show the accused escaping when liquor is seized. The court said that the state government’s failure to check such “designed FIRs” will make the   Act a show-piece.
 
 The HC raised doubts about the cop’s inability to nab bootleggers, saying, “The court wonders whether police have prior information of movement of liquor or the accused have prior information of prior information with the police. Is it the incompetence of police in failing to nab the accused despite having prior information or something else?”
 
 The HC observed that section 97 of the   Prohibition Act provides for punishment of officers who abet bootlegging and the government ought to act against officials under this law. “Such provisions are meant to take action qua such ‘designed FIRs’. The free flow of liquor leads to many cases of serious bodily injury, apart from other health and social issues. The failure to check such ‘designed FIRs’ will make the Prohibition Act just a show-piece,” the court order reads.
 
 The court made these observations while granting pre-arrest bail to Lakhan Chavda, who was booked by Bhavnath police station in Junagadh after IMFL worth Rs 4.81 lakh was seized. The HC granted Chavda anticipatory bail because he ostensibly managed to flee and was not caught in possession of the liquor.
 
 While granting anticipatory bail, Justice Vora criticized police inaction against bootleggers and the fixed format of FIRs, saying, “For a long time, the courts every day come across these typical FIRs under the Gujarat Prohibition Act. In a large number of such FIRs, though police have prior information about the movement of liquor including the exact location and vehicle number, the accused manages to flee, sometimes, even female accused.”
 
 The court further said, “If the state, if at all serious about stopping such ‘designed FIRs’ that are routinely filed by police, is required to look into the issue on an urgent basis and it is hoped that some sense will prevail with regard to action to be taken for such ‘designed FIRs’.”
 
 
