

 Vishal Pandya’s 
 , stars Urvashi Rautela, Karan Wahi, Vivan Bhathena, Ihana Dhillon, and Gulshan Grover. The fourth instalment of the franchise carries forward the infidelity-revenge saga supported by an eight-song album that begins with a recreated number. 
 
 
 , the title track of the 2005 romantic thriller, with Emraan Hashmi, Tanushree Dutta and Sonu Sood, had catapulted composer-singer Himesh Reshammiya to the very top and invariably changed his career as a musician. And now, 13 years after the release of that sensational chart-buster, remake specialist   has created a new version. The talented   easily takes this track to a new level of oomph with her sexy rendition. The hook line and the chorus has been retained and sung by Himesh in his inimitable nasal tones. There are additional lyrics by Manoj Muntashir and if you were a fan of the original song, then you will like this raunchy reboot too. 
 
 The next track
  a beautiful romantic number, with an unhurried tempo — will not just encourage you to break into a slow ballroom dance but might also make you press replay. Composer Arko Pravo Mukherjee, who had made a stunning debut as a composer with 
 (2012) has used Mediterranean soundscapes, beats and kept it soft, slow and seductive. This   love duet, has been penned by Manoj and  .
 
 
  composed, arranged and produced by Mithoon, is another slow romantic number, and has been sung by Jubin and Amrita Singh. 
 
 Young singer Armaan Malik is just getting better with each song he sings, case in point —
 . Touching lyrics by Rashmi Virag and Baman-Chand’s music adds to the appeal of this love song. The second version of this track has been crooned beautifully by Sukriti Kakar.
 
 This album seems highly inspired by Himesh, because the next track is a remake of another of his hits. Inspired by Naam Hai Tera (Aap Ka Suroor, 2007), this track titled 
 has been sung by the talented Neeti Mohan with additional lyrics by Shabbir Ahmed. Definitely not one of Tanishk’s better remakes, though. 
 
 The next track 
  has two versions, both penned fabulously by  . His simple heart-rending words bring the song to life. The first version is by the brother-sister duo Neha and  , the next is a solo by Tony. Both do justice to this sad love song. Overall, this album is surely worth a hear.
 
 
 
