Nagpur: The Rotary Club Nagpur’s (RCN) annual surgical camp at Hemalkasa in Gadchiroli was flagged off from Bishop Cotton School on Thursday.

 Around 100 Rotarians, a team of expert surgeons and doctors, interns from medical colleges and volunteers from the sponsors Mahindra and Mahindra (MM), Nagpur, will be part of this four-day-long camp.
 
 The camp takes place at Dr Prakash Amte’s Lok Biradari Prakalp-run hospital at Hemalkasa. This year, about 130 opthalmic operations and 70 high-end complicated surgeries will take place. Major operations that will be performed during the camp include paediatric surgeries, removal of tumours, thyroid and others. Tribals, mainly belonging to the Madia community, will participate in the camp.
 
 The process of the camp begins three months before wherein news regarding the camp is spread and the patient’s cases are recognized accordingly. RCN’s medical team coordinates and identifies the doctors and medicines required. Prakash Amte plays a major role in mobilizing the needy.
 
 Amitabha Sharma, treasurer of RCN, told TOI that sometimes the patients’ kin carry them on their shoulders, who leave their homes around 3-7 days earlier to reach the venue.
 
 Senior surgeon Dr Goverdhan, the brainchild behind the 31-year-old camp, said he aimed to take hope to the area which desperately needed it when he began the project as a rotary president.
 
 “The area was completely cut-off from the world and full of Naxalism. The idea was to go beyond just the worthless diagnosis. This camp gives a concrete solution by treating patients entirely in a single stroke,” he said.
 
 “The people from the Madia community are very timid and hesitant, which is why they generally avoid visiting even the nearby cities for treatment. Hence, they arrive at the camp at a very later stage of the disease. They have accepted their health issues as a part of nature. To curb this scenario, we conduct the camp in their area so that they feel comfortable and can easily seek help,” said Rotarian and senior surgeon Dr Surjit Hazra.
 
 Rina Sinha, president of RCN, said the tribals have astounding immunity and fantastic recovery as they are not used to antibiotics, which further helps in curing them quickly. Ashutosh Tripathi, vice-president and plant head of MM who is supporting the camp under CSR since the last 10 years, called this camp a social responsibility in true sense.
 
 Other non-medical activities such as distribution of water filters sponsored by Solar Explosives, distribution of sweaters to school children of Prakalp, sports activities for children and distribution of carpets will also be organized during the camp.
 
 Calderys, Solar Explosives, and Dinshaws will also support the camp.
 
 
