 (BATHINDA): Grieving the loss of seven lives in a powerful blast caused by an IED exactly a year ago, residents of the town criticised   police for failing to solve the case and have demanded the case be handed over to the  .

 Residents of the area on Wednesday assembled near Vishavkarma Bhawan on the truck union road, where the blast had occurred in an abandoned car on the night of January 31, to remember the departed souls and to raise the demand for a CBI probe while slamming the state government for forgetting promises made to the bereaved families. The residents also slammed the   government for not paying any heed to the demand of appointing doctors in the civil hospital, sanctioning of a fire brigade station and setting up a memorial to those killed in the blast. Earlier, a bhog was performed to pay tributes to those who lost lives. 
 
 “No progress has been made in one year to solve the case and identify the persons responsible for causing destruction. We have completely lost faith in Punjab police and town residents, especially the bereaved families, want the case to be handed over to the CBI,” said Maur Blast Virodhi Action Committee convener Gurmail Singh. “Besides, the state government also failed to provide any solace to the bereaved families and also did not keep its word of providing jobs to a member of the affected families,” said committee members Naveen Kumar, Dev Raj and  . 
 
 Deceased Japsimran’ father   said, “We have no faith in Punjab police and want a CBI probe so that we may know who were involved the senseless killings. We tried to approach the chief minister to request him to ask the police to speedily solve the case but he did not give us time.” 
 
 Aam Aadmi Party MLA from   was the lone politician to participate in the memorial service and assured to support the demands of the town residents. Even Congress ex-MLA Harminder Singh Jassi, who is said to be the target, failed to attend the memorial service. A senior police official involved in investigations in the case on the condition of anonymity said, “Police is working on some theories and have got some important leads. The counter intelligence has identified certain persons, who can be involved in the blast.”
 
 
