GURUGRAM: A man has been arrested with two of his friends for allegedly shooting at his niece because she married without the family’s consent and fled home. The woman, in her early twenties, has been battling for life in a private hospital in the city. 

 A preliminary investigation has revealed that Karan Singh, the main accused, and his accomplices had allegedly abducted the brother of the man his niece had married and killed him after he told them the address of the couple.
 
 The couple had been living in Farrukhnagar since they eloped and got married in August last year. On the night of November 2, the husband-wife duo were asleep in their room when Karan and his friends Rajesh and Amit sneaked into the house and   her. The bullet, the police said, had pierced her neck and exited through the head. She has been in   since.
 
 The husband, an auto-rickshaw driver, had mentioned the names of the trio in the FIR, alleging that they had been issuing threats to the couple for quite some time. He had lodged another complaint at Civil Lines police station, accusing Karan and his friends of abducting his brother and killing him.
 
 Sources said the trio had kept the husband’s brother tied inside a car when they went inside the couple’s house and shot at the woman. During the preliminary questioning, the police have apparently found out that the husband’s brother had been strangled to death, his body burnt and dumped at a forested area near Teekli village in the Aravalis
 
 The trio allegedly returned to see the body 4-5 days later and burnt it again after pouring petrol so that it went beyond recognition. The police claimed to have recovered the car used in the operation. 
 
 The crime unit of Sector 39 police arrested the trio, residents of Teekli village, from Rajiv Chowk on Friday, sub-inspector Raj Kumar said. They have been remanded in police custody.
 
 Raj Kumar said that after the murder, the accused trio had been to Rajasthan and several other places to evade arrest. The police have ruled out involvement of other family members in the murder.
 
 The auto driver said he had married the woman against her family’s wishes in August last year. Since then, the trio had been apparently threatening the couple and had even assaulted the husband’s father and his brother earlier. The father had registered a case at Badshahpur police station alleging the assault on him.
 
 The husband’s brother-in-law said he had been asleep in an adjacent room when Karan and the others shot at his niece. The brother-in-law said it was around midnight when he heard a loud sound and saw a few men fleeing through the stairs.
 
 A police spokesperson said the cops had been gathering DNA samples from the bones and ashes of the body suspected to be of the husband’s brother.
 
 “The revolver used to shoot the woman is also to be recovered,” an officer said.
 
