Nagpur: Hundreds of Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) final-year students were distributed wrong question paper on the first day of exam across different centres on Tuesday. The incident led to loss of crucial time and confusion among the students and officials. The exam’s scheduled timings was 9.30am to 12.30pm but it continued till 2.30pm following the goof up. The extra time consumed affected the second shift of the exam from 2.30pm to 5.30pm at many centres. Several students complained that since the first three questions of the paper ‘Entrepreneurship Development’ were the same, it took a while for them to realize it were old course questions. Many students were also denied fresh answerbooks after they had consumed the one given to them. Though centre officials were quick to point out the mistake after students complained, it took over one-and-a-half-hour for Nagpur University’s exam section to send the correct file over e-mail to the centres. The director of Board of Examinations and Evaluation, Neeraj Khaty, though admitted that wrong question paper was delivered online, he denied that there was delay in sending the correct paper. “As soon as it (the mistake) was reported, the correct file was mailed to all centres,” he said. The NU exam officials, however, declined to give exact number of affected students and centres where the incident took place. Students alleged that at some centres officials attempted to cover-up the issue by asking them to keep mum. “They (centre officials) told us that the evaluation would be managed and we do not need to worry about the results,” students said. Interestingly, NU officials blamed the centres for failing to ensure that correct question papers were received and there was no mismatch. On the other hand, centre in-charges said there was not much they could do rather than printing what was received. “The online system is such that we have to print what we receive in the mailbox. The question papers are mailed by the university an hour before the exam starts. We take one printout of this file which is then photocopied as per requirement. There was no chance for any confusion as only one set was received,” a centre in-charge said. Another in-charge added that the exam section was trying to keep the issue under wraps by passing the buck on centres. “Both, old and new course question papers should have been kept handy. The university must explain why it took so long to send the correct file,” he said.