Noida: The   on Tuesday conducted a draw of lots for allotting 501   in the area, eight years after the concept of   Nagar was announced and nearly four years after it became ready for use.

 The scheme was re-launched on January 1 this year with a lower land allotment rate of Rs 24,060. The multi-crore project has been developed on 26 acres of land in Sector 69. It has been envisaged to not only benefit thousands of transporters and bus operators, but also help decongest main roads where the drivers park their vehicles.
 
 According to the officials, the scheme had been launched twice earlier, once in 2011 with land rate of Rs 77,000 per square meter and later in September 2015 with land rate of Rs 18,180 per square meter. In 2011, when the Authority had initiated a scheme, there were no takers due to the exorbitant allotment rate. In September 2015, the applicants had alleged irregularities and approached the judiciary for reprieve, which hampered the success of the scheme.
 
 The Authority officials said that 412 plots were allotted through   system after lots were drawn manually. “We had received applications from local transporters and bus operators from Noida’s notified area, in January,” said a Noida Authority official. “We also received applications in February this year. The scheme is open-ended and draw of lots will be held every month for the balance plots on offer,” he added.
 
 The size of the plots allotted were in the range of 120 to 150 square metres. The maximum ground coverage allowed in the area will be 60%, while the floor area ratio will be 1.50 along with permission to build a basement. The   will accommodate nearly 2,500 vehicles at a time. The transporters can also have a godown in the basement, offices on the ground floor and resting rooms on the first floor.
 
 The Transport Nagar will also have two fuel stations, one of which will be a CNG station. “We have tried to incorporate suggestions made by the transporters during the mapping. We also have green belts and wide roads on the site, along with public conveniences and commercial zones,” the official added.
 
 Officials said, the Transport Nagar will offer Delhi roads a respite from heavy commercial vehicles. Heavy traffic from Bhagpat, Badaut, Meerut, Hapur, Faridabad, Gurgaon, Rohtak, Sonepat and other areas of Haryana will come directly to Transport Nagar via expressways. On an average, around 1,000 to 1,500 commercial vehicles enter Noida every day,” officials said.
 
 “The Transport Nagar will solve the illegal parking concerns of the industrial area and help bring all logistic solutions under one roof,” said Vedpal Singh, president of the Noida Transporter Association.
 
 
