PATNA: As the city is gearing up to celebrate International Women’s Day on Thursday, Patna University ( ) academics are all the more excited about this event because women have not only made their presence felt in its every institution but also created a niche for themselves by their remarkable performance.

 “More and more women are joining PU as teachers with the passage of time. Half of about 60 assistant professors appointed in PU within a year are women,” said PU registrar Rabindra Kumar.
 
 Earlier, only a few women teachers were visible in postgraduate departments and colleges (except in girls’ colleges). But now they are seen everywhere and also becoming college principals and PG department heads, said Patna College sociology department head and Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh.
 
 Girls have also broken the ‘glass ceiling’ in the field of higher education and grab almost all the top positions in university examinations. As per the last PU annual report, girls admitted to PG courses in all the faculties taken together constitute nearly 70%. In departments like sociology, psychology, zoology and botany, only a few boys are enrolled compared to girls.
 
 The ratio is almost the same even at the undergraduate level. Over 9,000 girls are enrolled in its ten constituent colleges against altogether 6,000 boys. There are three colleges — Patna Women’s College, Magadh Mahila College and Women’s Training College — meant exclusively for girls, but all other colleges except   are co-educational.
 
 Even colleges, once considered ‘exclusive bastion’ of the so-called stronger sex, have converted into co-educational institutions. 
 
 Patna College and   happen to be co-educational since their inception, but the number of girls studying in the two colleges could be counted on fingers until a few years back. However, there has been a considerable increase in their number in recent years. The number of girls has increased considerably in B N College and   as well.
 
 “With the performance of girls improving at such a fast pace in all spheres, the days are not far off when they would walk ahead of the boys in the ceremonial ‘Saptapadi’ (the holy seven steps taken to complete the marriage ceremony),” quipped a senior PU teacher. 
 
 
