Pune: Two laptops, five smartphones and gold ornaments totally worth over Rs1.30 lakh were stolen from the boots of two motorcycles, a scooter and a car.

 In the first case, an unidentified man stole three smartphones worth Rs23,000 from the boot of Sanket Ramakant Kamthe’s bike parked near St Patrick’s Town between 3.30pm and 7.15pm on Wednesday. Kamthe (25) lodged an FIR at the Wanowrie police station.
 
 Acting on a tip-off, a police team led by sub-inspector Ajay Mhetre arrested Ajay Mohan Puria (26) from Katraj after an investigation confirmed his involvement in the crime. He had used a duplicate key to open the boot.
 
 In the second case on the same day, an unidentifed man stole gold ornaments worth Rs 37,100 from the motorcycle boot of Ankit Sunil Shah (32) parked near Shriji Lawns on Kondhwa-Bibvewadi road between 10.40am and 10.55am. Shah had parked the vehicle to visit a shop when the suspect stole the bag after breaking open the boot. Shah lodged an FIR at the Kondhwa police station.
 
 A bag with a laptop worth Rs15,500 — belonging to Riyaz Mohammad Sayyed (50) — was stolen from his parked car on Ambedkar Road near Lal Mahal. The thieves broke the car’s window pane between 2pm and 3.15pm on Wednesday. Sayyed lodged an FIR at the Bund Garden police station.
 
 In the fourth case, an unidentified man stole a bag with a laptop, smartphone, cash and documents belonging to Prahanlal Prakash Chandramule (36) from the boot of his scooter at Vishrambaug between 10.30pm and 10.45pm on April 10. Chandramule filed an online complaint on the Pune police website. He was called to Vishrambaug police station and his complaint was recorded on Wednesday. 
 
 Vishrambaug police’s sub-inspector Mahendra Patil said investigations revealed that the suspect opened the boot lock and stole the bag with valuables in it after pressing the seat and fled. “A spot visit revealed that the place where the incident occurred was not illuminated. There were no CCTV cameras either,” he added.
 
 
