Ludhiana: Seeking to create awareness among devotees not to throw worship material into the canal, a local councillor organized a meeting with members of various temple committees of the city and astrologers on the issue.

 Mamta Ashu (councillor and wife of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu), who organized the meeting, said cleaning of   was necessary as apart from being the city’s lifeline, water from it is being tapped for round-the-clock water supply in the city, as part of the Smart City project. She added that involving astrologers and temple committees could help achieve the purpose, as devotees who come to them for remedies could be advised not to throw worship material, especially plastic, into the canal. “We think that a clean and green Sidhwan Canal can be achieved with dedicated effort and the support of people,” said the councillor.
 
 The organizers said they had received good support for the meeting. “About 60 astrologers and temple committee members, including members of Durga Mata Temple, BRS Nagar; Shree Geeta Mandir, Pratap Colony, Vikas Nagar; and Sanatan Dharm Mandir, Vishal Nagar, attended the meeting. We have requested them to advise devotees not to throw worship material into the canal, but instead, suggest other remedies,” said general secretary, Shree Geeta Mandir Vikas Nagar, Pardeep Dhall, who played a vital role in organizing the meeting. “By organizing the meeting with astrologers and various temple committee members, we have carried forward the Save Sidhwan Canal campaign of ‘The Times of India’.
 
 Many temple committee members said there were better ways of seeking God’s help and blessings. “We never ask devotees to immerse worship material in water bodies, as there are much better remedies available. The best way of seeking God’s help is through recitation of the names of Bhagwan,” said Pandit Vinod Ji, priest of Durga Mata Temple in BRS Nagar.
 
 Astrologers also echoed the assertion by Pandit Vinod Ji. “Vedic astrology never wants anyone to immerse worship material in water, and it is due to ignorance that devotees don’t know about it. However, things are going to change, and devotees will stop throwing worship material into water bodies. Already, there is a lot of improvement in the quality of water in the canal,” said Rajan Sharma, a reputed astrologer in the city.
 
 Meanwhile, Christian community representatives also assured full support to the cause. “We are for a clean and green Sidhwan Canal, and my community is ready to contribute to the pious cause,” said Albert Dua, ex-member of the State Minority Commission, and a Christian leader. 
 
 
