AGRA: Three criminals, who were allegedly involved in the recent   murders and robbery, were killed in an encounter with the Aligarh police in Dado police station area on Saturday early morning. Two police personnel were also injured in the exchange of fire. 

 According to police, two of the slain criminals, Aditya and Waseem, were wanted for several cases and carried a reward of Rs 25,000 each. The award was announced by Kasganj police after the brutal killing of four people including three members of the same family. 
 
 The third suspect, Ehsan, was also a part of the gang. Police said that their six associates however managed to escape. 
 
 SSP,   told TOI that the police party was sent to nab the criminals after a tip off. They were reportedly planning to commit some crime in Khurja, Bulandshahar and   district when they were surrounded by the police party. When challenged, they opened fire and in the encounter that ensued, three of them were injured while their accomplices managed to escape.
 
 He said, two constables, Manoj and Vinod also sustained bullet injuries and have been admitted to a hospital.
 
 Sahni said they were immediately taken to the nearest health centre from where they were referred to district hospital, which was 60 km away from the encounter site. He said, one of them succumbed to his injuries on the way, while the other two died during the treatment.
 
 He said that these criminals belong to “Chhaimar” gang that was active in Uttar Pradesh and their modus operandi was to identify houses for robberies and they used to brutally thrash the inmates with iron rods before decamping the valuables. He said that they used to rape women before thrashing them.
 
 “There is a belief by the members of this group that their marriage will be solemnised only after killing of six people,” said SSP adding that three country-made pistols along with iron rod, sticks, 25-30 bullets were recovered from them. 
 
 Last week, on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday between 12 am and 1 am, the suspects along with a dozen of their associates had barged into the house of one Raj Kumar in Sahawar city of Kasganj district and assaulted them. They brutally thrashed the inmates, killing three members of the same family and injured others before decamping with valuables worth Rs 50K. Earlier on Wednesday night, an elderly man was bludgeoned to death in neighbouring   police station jurisdiction.
 
