KOLKATA: India pacer   Hasin Jahan would record her confidential statement before a magistrate next Monday. The appeal made by the Kolkata Police was granted by an Alipore court on Tuesday. Jahan would also undergo a medical test — one of the prerequisites of any rape complaint — later this week.

 “We moved the court with an appeal to allow Jahan to record the statement before a magistrate. The court subsequently allowed to do so on March 19. Further, she would undergo a test as required for a complainant of any case under section 376. The date will be fixed shortly,” said  , joint commissioner (crime), Kolkata Police.
 
 Jahan went to   again on Tuesday to meet senior investigators of the detective department. She submitted a copy of her marriage certificate and the printouts of the WhatsApp and Facebook messenger conversations, which she had downloaded and shown to the media after accusing   of infidelity and domestic violence.
 
 She also claimed before the cops that she was suffering from insecurity and sought for more police protection. “Even today, Shami called to threaten me. I’m worried about myself and my daughter, so I sought police help,” Jahan said during a media conference at her lawyer’s chamber on Tuesday evening. Cops said they have already posted personnel outside her house, but if she needs more assistance, they would “consider the plea”.
 
 Jahan also said she was expecting a call from the chief minister’s office. “I was expecting the chief minister to call me to meet and listen to my plight. I don’t want her to blindly support me but as she herself has struggled a lot in her life, I feel she can empathise with my pain,” she said.
 
 Earlier in the morning, Jahan, in a fit of rage, had charged at a group of journalists and smashed the video camera of a Bengali news channel as they were trailing her. “I’m under a lot of stress and lost my cool. The media will have to consider that they cannot chase me everywhere. I’m sorry for my action,” she said during the media conference.
 
 
