Kolkata: From this year, private   college students who are weak in   will be nudged to choose the language from a bouquet of soft-skill courses that they will be required to pursue to earn an additional 20 credits, which would eventually fetch them a ‘BTech with honours’ degree.

 As per new proposals, all students will be required to earn 160 credits during the four-year course to get a BTech degree. The additional 20 credits will earn them a ‘BTech with honours’ degree. And, teachers will advise students weak in English to earn these extra 20 credits in the language.
 
 The proposals for the 2018-19 academic sessions have been drawn up by the Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT), to which all private engineering colleges are affiliated. 
 
 While earning the additional 20 credits to secure a ‘BTech with honours’ is still optional, the university plans to persuade colleges to make it compulsory.
 
 “Those not earning the additional points will get just BTech degree. But if teachers find that a candidate needs to improve English knowledge, presentation, communication, group writing or group activities skills then they will have to earn the extra 20 credits in the language,” said vice-chancellor of MAKAUT, Saikat Maitra. “We will bring about changes in the teaching system to help students improve their English skills. For instance, students will now be making presentations in class. This will help to improve their chances of cracking interviews which requires soft skills, including proficiency in English,” he added. 
 
 The students will be free to choose their soft-skill course, which will be taught digitally, from a wide range of subjects like artificial intelligence, cryptography, professional communication, personality development, how to make better presentations, big data, data science, introduction to computer programming and English, among others. Teachers would guide the students to pick a subject from this bouquet. 
 
 The Association of Professional Academic Institutions (APAI), which is the representative of all self-financed engineering and technological institutions in West Bengal, has agreed to the proposals drawn up by the university. 
 
 “As the education minister has suggested, we plan to hold discussions with MAKAUT authorities. Time permitting, we plan to suggest MAKAUT to allow us to hold additional English classes over the weekend or everyday after all classes get over,” APAI president Taranjit Singh said.
 
 State education minister Partha Chatterjee had on Sunday urged private engineering colleges to introduce a six-month English crash course for students to increase their employability. 
 
 Speaking at a job fair organised by private engineering colleges, Chatterjee said, “Engineering seats in Bengal have increased substantially. Yet, engineers are not getting jobs. An engineer had even approached me for a Rs 5000 per month job. For over a decade-and-a-half English was not taught at the primary level eroding the bases of a generation of students. These courses, therefore, would help students,” he said
 
  Chatterjee said while this was only a suggestion, it would help students go a long way. He added that his government wanted students to excel globally and hence the stress on English.
 
 Chatterjee also urged private colleges to recruit better faculties. He also urged parents not to push their children mindlessly into academics or sports. “Children need to be guided based on their interests and only then they will excel. Pushing them in fields they don’t take interest in is also limiting their time and energy to things they would want to do – or learn,” he said.
 
 
