KOLKATA: The city partied in style from morning to late night on December 31, which fell on a Sunday after 11 years. The revelry on Park Street, which was abuzz with visitors at restaurants since afternoon, peaked after sunset as the lights came on and thousands descended upon the party hub.

 The other usual hotspots like Alipore zoo and   also played host to thousands of visitors clocking footfalls of more than 81,000 and more than 35,000 respectively. Metro stations were brimming with people and trains went packed beyond capacity as lakhs travelled from one part of the city to another.
 
 The day began with the revellers pouring in at various restaurants and multiplexes to have the all important December 31 lunch and catch the latest Hindi blockbuster. “As the 31st fell on a Sunday, I kick started the day with lunch at a restaurant in Acropolis Mall with my wife, my brother-in-law and his wife and then went for a movie. In the evening, we came to Park Street and then checked into a pub in south Kolkata for a New Year’s party,” said Avishek Banerjee, a techie from Jadavpur.
 
 “People started coming in from early afternoon and queues kept increasing throughout the day. We had close to 1,300 people dining with us on Sunday,” said Nitin Kothari, the owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat on Park Street.
 
 From senior citizens to teenagers and young parents with children in tow, no one wanted to be left out of the celebration. While many visited the numerous food stalls dotting Park Street, there were also those who simply walked down the decked up road with friends and family.
 
 “I wanted to let my daughter feel the festive fervour and thought there was no better place than Park Street on New Year’s Eve. At the same time, I did not want wade through the sea of people at night. So we came early,” said Rehmat Hussain of Park Circus who was there with his five-year-old daughter.
 
 The crowd swelled around 8pm with party-goers arriving at the pubs. A large police contingent stood guard to ward off troublemakers.
 
 “We have been enjoying the walk down the lit-up street. My parents have allowed me to be out with friends and so I’m making the most of it. We will be partying the whole night in a club on Russell Street,” said  , a college student from Bhowanipore who was out with five friends.
 
 Anticipating the surge, night clubs and restaurants had started their preparations in advance. There were serpentine queues in front of restaurants as people waited for their turns, but none minded the wait as they got to witness the revelry out on the street. Guests and patrons started filling up the popular city clubs from 7pm as app cabs started getting costlier.
 
 “It is a crazy place and I loved the madness around. Even though we had to wait for little over half -an-hour, it was worth it. It wouldn’t be fun if things were normal on New Year’s Eve,” said  , a businessman.
 
 As the evening progressed, other party hotspots, like those on Southern Avenue, VIP Road, Salt Lake Sector V and Eco Park in New Town, started getting full. Since these places boast of a number of open-air party areas that provide guests with ample space to shake a leg in, the crowd count soon started outmatching their counterparts in the heart of the city. 
 
 “The clubs and pubs in the city get pretty crowded within moments. I prefer partying in open air like Eco Park and Nicco Park. I have been coming to these places for the last two years,” said  , an Alipore resident.
 
 
