CHENNAI: It’s been six days and finally the men in yellows were out in full force under the lights at the MA Chidambaram Stadium, Chepauk on Wednesday. Coach Stephen Fleming is back at the helm of things. Senior men Harbhajan Singh, Shane Watson and Imran Tahir featured in their first practice session of the IPL season.

 
 As has been the case over the past week, skipper   and the dynamic   turned out to be the crowd favourites — almost 10,000 of them conquering four stands. While entertainer Bravo set the crowd alight with his bag of tricks, allrounder Watson, who was in sublime form in the Pakistan Super League, headed into the nets alongside Dhoni.
 
 The right-handed Aussie was at his bullying best carting the bowlers around without much fuss until a Shardul Thakur bouncer rattled the 36-year-old. Fortunately for  , a visibly shaken-up Watson, struck on the helmet, regained composure quickly and the ride carried on.
 
 Fleming was a picture of calmness as he went about observing things and indulging himself in throw-downs. The former Kiwi skipper, though, is eager to “recreate the success” which CSK has achieved for eight successive years. “We will try and recreate some of the success that CSK had in the first eight years. Everything is very familiar... right back to the first hotel where we formed our friendships and got a lot of success as a team. 10 years on there is a lot of history. Chennai and CSK has been a big part of Dhoni’s career. And his determination now to recreate what was very special for us in the first eight years is high on his motivation,” Fleming was quoted as saying by chennaisuperkings.com.
 
 Interestingly, Harbhajan, donning the yellow jersey for the first time in his IPL career, had a hit with the bat for a brief period before rolling his arm over, while the two leg-spinners in the side - Karn Sharma and Imran Tahir - were having a go at batsman Harbhajan.
 
 It will be quite intriguing to see how Dhoni, a master at bringing the best out of spinners at Chepauk, handles the spin troika. Wrist spinners are certainly dominating limited-overs cricket at the moment and it was evident when CSK backed Karn for Rs 5 crore at the auctions.
 
 Fleming believes spin department holds the key. “If you look at our side we are very strong in spin bowling skill sets and we have also put a lot of faith in young Indian pace bowlers. And we have also got Lungi Ngidi and Mark Wood for that bit of extra pace depending on the conditions,” he added.
 
 Former India offspinner Ramesh Powar feels Karn will be Dhoni’s attacking option and that Harbhajan will have to play the supporting role. “I think the Chepauk wicket will offer assistance to Harbhajan and his experience will be key. But I feel Karn will be Dhoni’s primary weapon and Harbhajan, who hasn’t played international cricket for a while, will have to play a supporting role. I would be happy if he does well but I don't expect big things from him. MS is a great man-manager and he might even use Harbhajan’s experience in the powerplays,” said Powar.
 
