CHANDIGARH: The   has decided to create an alumni network of government schools, initiating an “Alumni Re-connect Programme” to get the old students together and help them give back to their   in different ways.

 A letter sent by the district education officer to the schools on Tuesday said, “The education department wishes to compile a list of prominent alumni of all government schools of Chandigarh from the session 1990 to 2010 from various fields.”
 
 The schools have been told to compile a list of 10 prominent alumni from fields as law (judges or judicial officers), public services (IAS/PCS or other senior officers), medicine (doctors), engineers, academics, theatre, art, painting and marketing.
 
 The initiative is the brainchild of director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar. “This will help schools in getting in touch with their prominent alumni. These days people have started linking government schools with the lesser privileged, while this is not the case. Government schools have students from all financial backgrounds and many prominent people have passed out from them.”
 
 The task, however, is going to be difficult. “Through this programme, schools will get to know about their performers in various fields. This will motivate students. Alumni can always help in their school’s growth. But it will be interesting to see how schools will find out about their performers as they have not been in touch with ex-students,” said  , a government school teacher.
 
 The department has also told schools to open a Facebook account and publicise it in the morning assembly, classrooms and parent-teacher meetings.
 
 The schools have been asked to compile this list of 10 alumni along with their passport size photographs and a brief profile by February 15.
 
 Private schools of Chandigarh already have strong alumni network and they have been helping the schools in various ways like holding lectures, offering scholarships and jobs.
 
 Some of the government schools that have come in touch with their alumni only did so for meetings of different batches. The schools don’t have any proper database of their alumni.
 
 Former deputy director, school education,  , who has taught in Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 35, said, “It is a very good initiative and will help in motivating students to opt for government schools. Also, ex-students can help in development of their parent schools as they have the zeal to do something for them.”
 
 
 
