BHOPAL: The   ( ) on Thursday began providing psychological counselling service to students. The service will come handy at the time of preparations as well as during exams to overcome exam-related stress in students.

 With the CBSE exams round the corner, the pre-exam counselling by CBSE began from the morning hours. Students are urged to call any time between 8am to 10 pm. The service will be available through a toll-free helpline number (1800-11-8004) that was released by the board.
 
 In a bid to reduce exam stress, the board will provide psychological counselling by experts to both students as well as parents.
 
 "The helpline was launched on Thursday. Due to heavy traffic of calls, the toll free number may appear to be a bit busy, but students are urged to have patience till their call gets answered," said a counsellor.
 
 CBSE schools have been providing psychological counselling to students for 19 years now and over 91 teachers and trained professionals from CBSE-affiliated government and private schools will be taking up the task this year across the country.
 
 "Counselling is offered twice a year. Phase I is meant for pre-exams, which begins in February and ends in April and phase II is for post results, which will begin in May and end in June," reads a CBSE circular.
 
 It further states that prior to the annual counselling, feedback and training sessions are conducted regularly to enhance the counselling skills of the participants.
 
 CBSE said its annual counselling is an outreach programme which caters to the heterogeneous students' population and vast geographical network of schools. It will offer telecounselling by principals and trained counsellors from within CBSE-affiliated schools located in and outside India.
 
 "This year 91 principals, trained counsellors from CBSE-affiliated government and private schools, psychologists and special educators will participate in telecounselling and address exam related psychological problems of students. 71 of them are available in India while 20 are located abroad," said the CBSE in a statement.
 
 Differently-abled students can also avail the service as special educators will also be available to take care of their concerns. To help deal with examination anxiety, experts from the CBSE will answer queries of students through weekly question-answer columns that will be published in national newspapers. Students can also mail their queries to counselling.cecbse@gmail.com.
 
 
