MUMBAI: The Kondhane dam project was one of the key cases in TOI’s irrigation scam expose in 2012 (see box). Activists filed a PIL that year alleging largescale corruption in the award of 15 irrigation projects in the state. Subsequently, an SIT was formed and an ACB probe began.

 In August 2017, the state transferred the project from the water resources department to  . The revived project is being converted into one to supply water for the Navi Mumbai Airport Influenced Notified Area (Naina) zone. The agency was asked to pay the amount owed to the contractor to the state government. This will be passed on through the Konkan Irrigation Development Corporation (KIDC) to the contractor. The project will use water from the   river.
 
 
  
 “Why is the government in such a hurry to pay the contractor when the work was illegal and the matter is sub judice?” asked  , one of the petitioners in the public interest litigation on the irrigation scam. He has served a legal notice on water resources minister Girish  , threatening criminal proceedings if the government pays F A Enterprises before the HC concludes its hearings.
 
 Mahajan told TOI that no payment has been made to the contractor and that the government will await the outcome of court hearings. “The money has been paid by Cidco to our department and we will proceed only as per the directions of the court,” Mahajan said. Telephone calls to the Khar office of F A Enterprises went unanswered.
 
 By the time the Kondhane contract was scrapped, F A Enterprises had begun work at the site allegedly without obtaining key approvals from the ministry of environment and forests, the railways or the ASI.
 
 The contractor moved court in 2013, demanding payment of Rs 114 crore for the work completed. The same year, the Bombay HC ordered KIDC to pay the amount after receiving an undertaking from a KIDC official. When the money was not credited, F A Enterprises filed a contempt petition.
 
 Three years later, in 2016, KIDC moved the high court, saying a junior official was not authorised to agree to the payment. However, in an order in July 2017, the HC dismissed the application, saying it had been filed after several years.
 
 KIDC approached the  , which set aside the HC order on December 1, 2017. It said the contempt case and the pending PIL should be heard together and decided preferably in six months. “At the time of final decision of both matters, the high court shall take a call on payment, if any, to be made to the respondent F A Enterprises,” the SC order said.
 
