While last year’s budget had drawn flak for failing to acknowledge the problem of pollution and  , environmentalists expect a better deal this year.

 Getting accepted as a “national crisis”, air pollution needs major attention in this budget. “The way air pollution debate has moved, allocation of substantial funds for strengthening the monitoring network is expected. We need to set-up more real-time monitoring stations and ensure that data is available to the public with health advisory,” says Sunil Dahiya, senior campaigner at environmental NGO Greenpeace India.
 
 As per a report recently released by the NGO, over 47% of the population in India is still living in areas where there is no air quality monitoring.
 
 Last year’s budget gave a big boost to solar energy and environmentalists look forward to more incentives for environmentally sustainable projects. “Renewable energy should be a prime concern and environmentally destructive projects like coal and large-scale hydropowers should be discouraged,” says Shripad Dharmadhikary, coordinator of Pune-based Manthan Adhyayan Kendra.
 
 Strengthening public transport system should find a good place in the budget, says Pradeep Maheshwari, vice-president of Vidarbha Economic Development Council. “To curb air pollution, the government should improve connectivity of broad-gauge railway network. This will lead to a decline in the number of state transport buses which are a major source of air pollution,” he adds.
 
 Though water bodies are a state-level subject, the Centre can refine the national waterways project. Dharmadhikary says, “Any allocation of funds under this project should be subjected to proper environmental impact assessment. As of today, water bodies are under a major threat as any work does not require an environmental clearance.”
 
 Unimpressed with the last year’s curtailed budget for the wildlife sector, conservationists are hoping for a damage control this time. “Separate funds should be devoted for voluntary relocation of villages. The current situation is that most of the villagers are ready to relocate but there are no funds,” says Kishor Rithe, president of Satpuda Foundation.
 
 In the budget allocation for 2017-18, the Project Tiger initiative had witnessed decrease in its funds. Hoping for a hike, regional head of Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) Prafulla Bhamburkar says, “We need special allocations for pushing mitigation measures. Centralized budget is also needed for protecting tiger, elephant and other crucial landscapes. The budget should also focus on crop damage due to wildlife.”
 
 Corridor conservation and habitat restoration should also be the priority, says Milind Pariwakam, wildlife biologist at the Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT).
 
 Environment & wildlife wish list
 
 Allocation of substantial funds for strengthening air quality monitoring network 
 
 Strengthening public transport system to curb air pollution
 
 Funds under waterways project should be subjected to proper environmental impact assessment
 
 Separate funds for voluntary relocation of villages
 
 More funds for the Project Tiger initiative
 
 Mitigation measures and protecting specific landscapes
 
 Corridor conservation and habitat restoration 
 
 
