The sleepy neighbourhood of the Govern-ment Hospital at   was the hub of frenzied activity on Saturday morning as   Volunteers, animal lovers and firemen descended on the area for a rescue operation — to save an   entangled on a manja and desperately fighting for its life. The fully-grown eagle was hanging by its right wing, which was caught in the manja, while fluttering its other wing vigorously. In what made for a heart-rending sight, four other eagles were circling around their mate, seemingly trying to help it break free.
It all began with a call to a Blue Cross volunteer. “The caller told me that an eagle had been stuck for the past two days. I rushed to the hospital, because if it’s stuck for two days then it would be under extreme stress due to the injury and the heat. So I began asking the nurses, the hospital boys, the superintendent but nobody knew where to locate it,” recounts  , the blue cross volunteer who initiated the rescue operation.
 Finally, Shiva found the eagle, hanging by a thread — literally. The tree beside the hospital was too high for anyone to climb. The hospital had no staircase, so the terrace too could not be accessed by the volunteers. That’s when they decided to call in the fire rescue team.
 Rushing in within two minutes, the Fire Safety team quickly set up one ladder to the hospital terrace and from there, used ladders, ropes and poles to move towards the tree in order to rescue the injured bird. “Even though we have done such rescues before, this was a tough one as it took three hours to finally rescue the trapped bird. The tree was dry and it had long brittle branches, so we had to move really cautiously,” explains MK Baig, Station Fire Officer, Malakapet Fire Station. Previously, his team has recused an eagle at   in   and a cat from the fourth floor of a building in Santosh Nagar. 
 As the operation was underway, onlookers kept pouring in, wondering what the hype was about. Some even looked quite disappointed when they found it was all for a bird. After three hours, the team finally got the bird down.
 The volunteers explained that the eagle had a nest in the tree and it got entangled with the manja while on its way there. For two days, its mates tried to rescue it, however they failed as the manja was difficult to break. The sharp edges also cut into the bird’s flesh. At present, the bird is recouping. “It is currently in a cool, shady place after being given plenty of ORS. It’s still uncertain whether it will be able to fly again though,” adds Shiva.
 
 
