Chandigarh: Two MBA students of University Business School (UBS), Panjab University (PU), have been offered a salary package of Rs 46 lakh per annum, the highest till date.

 Tolaram Group, which has operations in six countries and is headquartered in Singapore, has made the offer.
 
 With more than 104 students out of 107 of the 2016-18 batch being placed so far, UBS has recorded 98.13% placement so far.
 
 Renuka Negi, 25, one of the two students, hails from a tribal community in Sangla valley of Kinnaur. Aditya Pandey, 21, a city resident, was rejected by 10 companies before finally getting the highest package.
 
 Moreover, the average salary this year has increased to Rs 9 lakh from last year’s Rs 7.58 lakh per annum. The highest stipend for summer internship this year has also increased to Rs 60,000 per month. “This year 45 companies visited us for campus placements. The job profile offered to students has also improved. The stipend for summer placements has also seen a remarkable improvement. All this has happened because of several measures taken by us and we plan to improve our NIRF rankings too,” said Deepak Kapur, chairperson, UBS.
 
 In 2016-17, the highest package of Rs 15 lakh per annum was offered to three students of UBS. The average package offered was Rs 7.59 lakh per annum. However, in the 2015-16 session, seven MBA students had bagged the highest package of Rs 21 lakh per annum. In 2014-15, the highest package was Rs 13 lakh per annum.
 
 Unlike last year, IT companies, including Infosys, TCS and Wipro made a comeback and offered improved salary package to students. “This year, the IT companies not only came back but also recruited students at a higher package. For example, Infosys used to recruit students at Rs 7.5-Rs 8 lakh per annum. However, this year, the company has recruited students at Rs 9 lakh per annum,” Kapur said.
 
 Renuka Negi, 25
 
 The 25-year-old, who hails from a tribal community in Sangla valley of Kinnaur, says getting the highest package of Rs 46 lakh per annum came as a surprise for her. She also has a message for the youth of her community. “Since there are limited opportunities to work in our village and the youngsters have immense talent, I want them to explore opportunities outside the valley and then come back and do something constructive.” However, Negi, who has done MBA in marketing, says she has no plans to start her own venture in the next five years. She had completed her pharmacy from University Institute of Pharmaceutical Studies (UIPS).
 
 Negi, whose father is a banker and mother a homemaker, says she is the first from her entire family to pursue MBA. Moreover, since this was not expected, Negi says she has not planned as yet what would she do with this money. When asked why she switched from pharmacy to MBA, Negi replies, “Whenever I used to go to these industry visits, I found out that marketing and sales is everything and that is when I developed interested in marketing and decided to go for MBA.”
 
 BOX: Aditya Pandey, 21
 
 Getting the highest package of Rs 46 lakh was not a cakewalk for Aditya Pandey. During the placements, Pandey faced rejection from 10 companies before finally getting the offer. When Tolaram Group came for placements, he decided to appear for the interview, leaving his dejection aside. “I could not get through 10 companies and this was my 11th attempt. One should never give up. The pressure is high but you should never lose heart. I was dejected but I received immense support from the faculty and parents,” says Pandey, who has done MBA in finance and marketing.
 
 Pandey is a national table tennis champion and has played 25 national tournaments and won 50 medals at state level. Active member of the BClub of UBS, Pandey is from Chandigarh and has also got the highest package of Rs 46 lakh.
 
 BIG BUCKS
 
 Year | Highest package | Company | Average package
 
 2018 | Rs 46L per year | Tolaram Group | Rs 9L
 
 2017 | Rs 15L per year | Religare Finvest | Rs 7.6L
 
 2016 | Rs 21L | NA | Rs 8.2L
 
 
