NAGPUR: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed the Maharashtra government to submit all papers relating to Special Investigation Team’s (SIT) report on pesticides deaths of farmers.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi directed the government to complete formalities by 2.30pm on Thursday. The court refused to hear any request to grant more time from senior counsel   for furnishing the documents as they had to be brought from   in Mumbai.
 
 “What’s the object of SIT and sanctity of its report (without all related documents)? When very serious matter is being heard, the related papers are unavailable,” the judges orally observed.
 
 The court was hearing a PIL (No. 113/2017) by social worker   through counsel   contending that over 700 farmers and farm labourers were admitted in hospitals in entire Vidarbha with respiratory problems and about 25-30 lost their eyesight, due to failure in implementing Insecticides Act, 1968.
 
 Earlier, Waghmare contended SIT’s report was an “eyewash” and demanded its reconstitution under a judicial member. In his new application, he prayed for including SIT members as co-accused in the case along with insecticides manufacturers, dealers, retailers along with local and state authorities. He added 51 farmers and farm labourers had died due to use of deadly pesticides of which 21 were from Yavatmal alone.
 
 Manohar contended that the SIT report was comprehensive and reasons for deaths were provided. “The farmers used mixtures of pesticides without following precautions and used them for spraying without using safety gadgets like masks and rubber gloves,” he said citing the SIT report.
 
 In last hearing senior counsel   appearing for pesticides companies informed they were unable to secure post-mortem reports of deceased farmers. “The reports are needed in order to find out the exact cause of deaths. However, despite using   the client is being only tossed from one department to another,” he said.
 
 The SIT recommended land owners should be booked under section 304 of IPC for culpable homicide and if an unfit labourer was found spraying pesticides, he should be booked under 309 of the IPC for attempt to suicide.
 
 
