MUMBAI: A day after the   struck down the three-tier fee structure,   across Maharashtra have stepped out of the post-graduate admission process. The state government has pressed the panic button and decided to use its special powers to direct the FRA to allow colleges to at least charge higher   for NRI seats.

 The FRA on Wednesday cancelled differential fee structures for state seats, institutional quota and NRI seats and notified that all private colleges need to be quota-blind in terms of tuition. Last year, several colleges had set NRI and management seats at three to four times the merit/state quota fees.
 
 Unacceptable to private institutes, they have refused to participate in the admission process. “There may be intervention from the state government to clear the logjam,” said Dr Pravin Shingare, head of Directorate of Medical Education and Research ( ). Section 15 of the Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions Regulation, 2017, allows the government to step in and direct the FRA to re-consider its stand.
 
 “Private college   are at least asking the state to direct the FRA to allow them to charge five times higher fees from NRI candidates,” added Dr Shingare. If the annual fee of a college is Rs 10 lakh, the institute wants to charge Rs 50 lakh a year from an NRI candidate. 
 
 The FRA has called for a meeting with managements of private medical college next week to discuss charging a flat fee to students. The FRA will also have the state authorities participate in the meeting so that they can resolve the issue.
 
 “We will meet managements of colleges next week and try to understand their grievance,” said an FRA member. “We are not sure why colleges are opting out of this year’s admission process. Annual fees have been decided keeping a flat fee structure in mind,” he added. Colleges have 50% seats for merit quota, 35% for institutional quota and 15% are NRI seats.
 
 Private college managements have informed the DMER that they would not admit PG candidates this year. While the FRA released this policy this week for PG admissions only, many sense the same would soon be made applicable to undergraduate admissions too. Private college managements have threatened to close down campuses and not hold admissions this year.
 
 There are 1,500 PG seats in government colleges, 400 in private institutes and 900 in deemed institutes, the admissions for which are conducted by the central government.
 
 
