These two met each other when they were in their teens and they’ve now known each other for two decades! Sandalwood’s Roaring Star   and his wife   have spent more than half their lifetime with each other. The   admits to have never celebrated Valentine’s Day, but Sriimurali says that every day is Valentine’s Day in his life. We caught up with the two for a quick chat. Excerpts...

 
 
 Sriimurali: I love the way she loves me. She’s a very happy and positive person and has a very positive attitude towards life. 
 Vidya: The way he makes me smile all the time is what I love most about him. He keeps me happy all the time. He cracks the silliest of jokes and I’m laughing 24/7 when I am with him.
 
 
 
 Sriimurali: There is a tornado that comes once in a while — no one knows where it comes from or why it comes. She gets angry very soon and I just ask her to calm down. I’ve stopped reacting now. When she gets angry, I just let it be and support her. 
 Vidya: He spends too much time in the bathroom. I don’t let him play video games; I have packed his gaming consoles and kept them aside. This is why he sneaks his portable gaming console into the bathroom and plays on it for hours together.
 
 
 
 Sriimurali: You need to trust your partner and be yourself. Never fake anything when it comes to love. Say what you have to, give what you have and give in till you can. 
 Vidya: A lot of love, respect and, of course, honesty. Our personalities are a little alike. Both of us are like open books and can’t lie to each other. Even if I try to lie, he will know it’s a white lie. We will have known each other for 20 years this year. I was 16 when I met him and he was 17. We’ve literally grown up together. I can tell when he is upset, angry, when he’s not in the mood or he’s lying, and it is the same with him.
 
 
 
 Sriimurali: Take life lightly. Do not take anything to your heart, especially when it comes to relationships. It is nice to love and respect each other. One needs to learn to trust their partners. People should give each other space and trust, rather than intrude and ask the other to listen to what they want to say.
 Vidya: Just be honest and be yourself. And never go to bed angry over a fight. It doesn’t matter if you are fighting till 5 am. Fight, and then cuddle and sleep. 
 
