CHENNAI: It was a decade ago, that S S   noticed and recorded the strange sound made by a flock of parakeets when a falcon approached them. He studied the sounds and developed a device, which emulated bird calls to sound out alerts. It was the answer to contain midair collisions between birds and aircraft. His upgraded device is now helping farmers scare birds eating away at their crops.

 For Mahesh, the journey began when he started studying bird strike in Indian airports in 2007. Earlier many airports used devices from countries like the US and  , but these failed because the sounds were of ‘foreign’ birds, which could not be understood by the native species. Mahesh’s research of Indian species made him unique.
 
 
 “Sounds produced by birds differ. Since the sounds that many airports used earlier days were of foreign birds, it didn’t work. It was the parakeet-falcon encounter that helped me develop HarmonyM3,” said Mahesh, who was in Chennai recently to share his experience.
 
 When Mahesh tested his HarmonyM3 first in 2010, he got a good response. Starting with 60 species of Indian birds, the device now is being used in more than 50 air bases in the country, mostly by  .
 
 However, Mahesh didn’t stop with Harmony M3. With the sponsorship of All Indian Network Project on Agricultural Ornithology, he developed HarmonyQ series under the guidance of Vasudeva Rao, project coordinator from   in Hyderabad. Recording the sounds of animals needed patience and he had to wait inside forests for days, at times without food. “It was an interesting journey, from airports to agriculture. Bioacoustics works with different types of calls alarm, distress and predator calls to disperse birds and animals,” said Mahesh, CEO of Bengaluru-based Grus Ecosystems.
 
 Mahesh has also developed HarmonyQ3, designed to help farmers who suffer from crop losses due to birds and animals. “The Harmony Q3 series has been effective in 84% of the cases, while in other cases it did not work due to the individual behaviour of birds or proximity to populated areas. It is being widely used by farmers in   and  ,” he said.
 
 It was challenging to record the sounds produced by birds belonging to different species. But the exercise was difficult because each bird produced sounds depending on situations, says Mahesh.
 
 Apart from recording various sound patterns, the study needs analytical techniques like a sonographic method, which provides a visual representation of the spectrum of frequencies of sound.
 
