Merlapaka Gandhi’s ‘
 ’ starring Nani,   and   in lead roles releases on April 12 amidst high expectations. While the film has gained attention right from the word go due to its catchy title and the first look of   featuring him in a dual avatar. Expectations are high on this one because of its subject matter and music too. While Nani’s fans have enough reasons to watch the film, especially since the teaser released and Nani’s character uttered the words, “It’s girls are modable macha.” However, before ‘Krishnarjuna Yuddham’ movie review is out, we give you our five reasons why you should watch it: 

 
 
 
 
 
 After Mohan Krishna Indraganti’s ‘Gentleman’, Nani can yet again be seen in a dual avatar in ‘Krishnarjuna Yuddham’. However, unlike the former, for half of the film, Nani’s both avatars will be seen sharing some screen time together in this one. Nani plays the dual role of the desi, lungi-clad Krishna from Chittoor, complete with the local accent. He also plays the role of rockstar from Prague, Arjun, in this film. The actor has revealed to Hyderabad Times that he had even employed different body languages to play both the roles. It would be interesting to see how Nani brings to life both his roles on-screen. 
 
 
 
 
 Anupama Parameswaran and Rukshar Mir play Arjun and Krishna’s love interests respectively. Anupama has more than proven herself through her performances in ‘Premam’ and ‘Vunnadhi Okate Zindagi’. So nothing less than perfection is expected of her in this film. Nani too had revealed to Hyderabad Times that Anupama had shared a rare kind of chemistry with the camera in this film. Talking about Rukshar, he had said, “Rukshar was really good and would ensure to get her Telugu pronunciation right on location. It made our jobs easier and helped us emote better. I think that kind of dedication for a first timer is awesome.”
 
 
 
 Both Nani and Anupama had admitted to Hyderabad Times that Merlapaka Gandhi is a strong reason for them to accept the film. Anupama had revealed that Merlapaka’s treatment of the film bowled her over and she would enjoy shoot so much that she would turn up on set just to watch the others act. For her part, Anupama shot in Prague and she called shooting for the film an “enjoyable process”. Nani too had told us that he was completely dependent on Gandhi’s vision to play Krishna and that it was his screenplay, narration and treatment that made him accept the film. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Think of ‘Krishnarjuna Yudham’ and it’s hard to not have the music of ‘Dhaari Choodu’ play in your head. Beautifully mass and the authentically Telugu flavour, tune and lyrics stole everyone’s heart when it first released. The other songs in the film have also been received well, sung by pros like Raghu Dixit, Yazin Nazar, Kala Bhairava, LV Revanth and more. The duo Hiphop Tamizha is well-known in Tamil Nadu and are famous for their work in films like ‘Dhruva’ and ‘Thani Oruvan’. 
 
 
 ‘Krishnarjuna Yudham’ charts the journey of Krishna from Chittoor and Arjun from Prague. While both their lives are worlds apart, literally, it is their love for their partners that brings them together. But what goes awry and why they come together forms the crux of the tale. While the premise seems interesting, it remains to be seen how well the film will fare out. Especially so because Nani had revealed to Hyderabad Times that despite Gandhi pitching him a story before that he rejected because he felt he did not fit the role, he accepted this film immediately after first narration due to the interesting premise. 
 
 Watch this space for critic review of movie 'Krishnarjuna Yudham'.
 
 
