GURUGRAM: The State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) has directed the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) to show-cause Gurugram police for not reporting the matter related to   and   of a   girl.

 
 Also, it ordered an age-determination test and if the girl is found to be a minor, her   too will be booked under the   Act.
 
 Taking note of the way the case was handled, the SCPCR observed the police didn’t consider the possibility that the girl could be a minor, at least at the time when she was raped for the first time. She claimed she was only around 16-17 years when she was brought to Gurugram in November 2016.
 
 On Friday, SCPCR member Balkrishan Goel and CWC chairperson Shakuntala Dhull visited the Civil Hospital after the authorities there informed the commission that a girl was refusing to accept the baby she delivered on Thursday. During interaction with the girl, Goel and Dhull found the survivor was probably a minor, and also a victim of trafficking and bonded labour. 
 
 On this, Goel instructed Dhull to send a showcause to the police for not reporting the matter to the panel when the   was filed. Also, the police will have to explain why the placement agency and the agents were not booked.
 
 Also, it was found that the employers had hired the girl as a nanny through the agency, and paid a commission of Rs 40,000 a year. The girl was paid a monthly salary of Rs 3,500 in the first year, and Rs 4,500 in the second year. As per the   labour laws, the minimum wage for 8 hours of service for six days a week is Rs 9,000 a month. Further, employers didn’t get the police verification done for the girl as well as the cook, Mohit, the rape accused, who is still at large.
 
 “The police are not an authority to determine the age. We will tell them the age after medical examinations,” said Goel. The employers too will be booked under sections 19 and 21of POCSO Act if the girl was found to be minor. Also, they will have to pay compensation to the girl as per the minimum wages prescribed by Haryana government, he said.
 
 “We got her age determination test done at the time of the FIR, which suggested she was around 20 years old. However, there are certain tests that can be done only on the orders of the CWC,” said SI Manjusha, investigating officer.
 
 The SCPCR has decided to write to all deputy commissioners to get all maids and servants registered. 
 
 “We will write to DCs by Monday to ensure all RWAs and households register and get police verification done for all domestic staff,” Goel told TOI.
 
 
