PATNA: Sounds strange, but the price of an application form for admission to a degree college in   is much higher than the tuition fee paid by a student for his graduation course.

 The online submission of forms for admission to the three-year degree courses in   (PU) colleges started on Friday and a student has to deposit Rs300 toward the cost of application form for each college. If a student applies for admission to BA or BSc course in, say, three colleges, he would have to deposit a sum of Rs900 as the cost of application forms. Besides, he would have to deposit a sum of Rs300 for entrance test for admission. And, if s/he is selected for admission, s/he would pay only Rs12 a month towards his tuition fee which is much less than the cost of a cup of coffee.
 
 Strangely enough, the amount of tuition fee has not been revised during the last 60 to 70 years. A student today is paying the same tuition fee as was paid by his grandfather or even great grandfather, said former PU vice-chancellor K K Jha.
 
 In fact, colleges in the state are imparting two types of education nowadays — one for the students opting general courses and the other for those joining vocational or professional courses. While the general courses are taught almost free, the vocational courses are made available at a premium.
 
 As per the fee structure devised for these two types of courses, the vocational courses are much costlier than the general courses. If a student joining a three-year vocational course has to cough up between Rs25,000 and Rs50,000 for the full term, a general three-year degree course student does not pay even Rs3,000 for the entire course. The quality of education is directly linked with the quantum of fee being paid, quipped   student Rakesh Sharma.
 
 With the meagre amount of tuition fees being charged from students of general courses, colleges are finding it very difficult to survive. They have to do depend on government doles for meeting their day-to-day routine expenses. For instance, Patna College realizes about Rs1.10 lakh from students as their tuition fee in a year, while its total expenditure, including salaries of teachers and staff, exceeds Rs5.66 crore, according to college sociology department head Randhir Kumar Singh.
 
 Colleges do raise funds by charging for development, maintenance, library and sports facilities, but even then they are not able to cope with their ever-increasing expenses. The total annual income of   is roughly about Rs45 lakh against an expenditure of Rs8.20 crore. The situation has become all the more alarming in recent years with the remission of fee of girl students admitted in the college. The college has submitted a bill of Rs31 lakh to the state government for reimbursement of fees supposed to be realized from girls, but the college has not received any fund from the government so far, said college principal Radha Kant Prasad. 
 
 The condition of most girls’ colleges in the state has become quite critical due to lack of funds.
 
 The age-old fee structure needs to be revised, if the colleges are to be run properly, said Patna College principal Ezaj Ali Arshad. Guardians who are spending at least Rs2,000 to Rs3,000 a month on the education of their wards in a public school should not hesitate in paying the same amount for educating them in a college. Poor students, of course, should be given freeships and scholarships for pursuing their education without any hindrance, he added.
 
 Academics pointed out that the constant refusal of both central and state governments to raise tuition fees with rising costs of higher education is in sharp contrast to the system adopted in several countries in Europe and Asia, including communist China. Most of them have been raising collegiate and university tuition fees consistently, while devising robust fee deferral and soft loan systems for needy students, they said.
 
 
