CHANDIGARH: Having battled   district administration’s red tape for two years, the fossils of   now face a civil suit. Five landowners of this remote village have moved court against the state government to “restrain” it from “interfering in peaceful ownership and joint possession” of their land.

 The court of Kharar additional civil judge (senior division)   has, in notices issued on April 30, sought replies from Mohali deputy commissioner and two revenue officials of the district on the next hearing on May 29. The landowners — Jaspal Singh, Mohandeep Singh, Taranjit Singh, Gurpreet Kaur, and Parveen Puri — approached the court on January 30.
 
 Their counsel K S Rupal said the landowners feared that the state government, for providing protection to fossils, would acquire their land forcibly. Fossils found near the village are considered scientifically priceless because researchers believe they could hold the key to understanding how primates evolved into humans.
 
 The Archaeological Survey of India is in the process of providing protection to fossils found around the village, after PM   asked it to do so during his visit to Chandigarh along with France former president François Hollande in January 2016. Though providing protection does not necessarily mean acquisition of land, landowners have contended in the civil suit that “revenue officials visited the agricultural land of the plaintiffs, and informed them that the defendants are going to start excavation of agricultural land”.
 
 The landowners have submitted in the suit that defendants cannot forcibly enter the “suit land forcibly in order to carry out any excavation activity”. “If defendants intend to carry any excavation activity, procedure is to be followed,” the civil suit reads.
 
 The petitioners have informed the court that they “will suffer an irreparable loss and injury in case defendants are allowed to take forcible possession of their land and are permitted to dig the suit land for excavation of fossils for archaeological purposes”.
 
 Meanwhile, a senior officer of the Archaeological Survey of India said providing protection to a piece of land did not mean they would be acquiring it. “There will be a ban on taking away fossils from the land we provide protection to. Also, farmers will be allowed to carry on what they have been doing on the land.
 
 They will be able to cultivate crops on it too,” said the officer, who did not wish to be named as he was not authorized to speak to the media. Asked if the landowners will be paid any kind of a compensation, the officer said no.
 
 
