PATNA: The residents can expect some respite from the ongoing sultry weather conditions as   ( ) on Monday predicted possibility of rains along with thunderstorm at isolated places in the state over the next five days.

 A warning for thunderstorm along with gusty winds likely at isolated places was also issued for Tuesday. Thunderstorm or dust storm is also likely in Patna over the next two days. Weathermen have attributed the weather turbulences to a cyclonic circulation over east  .
 
 “The moisture incursion from the cyclonic circulation amid high temperature conditions is likely to cause thunderstorm with little amount of rainfall at isolated places over the next five days,” a senior official at Patna meteorological centre said. 
 
 However, sultry weather conditions are likely to prevail for the time being owing to moist easterly winds amid high temperature. Relative humidity measured at as high as 66% amid temperature hovering around 37-38 degrees C during day time raised the Real Feel index up to 46 degrees C on Monday as per the calculation of private weather agency  .com. Real Feel is a formula devised to determine how hot your skin feels outdoors, taking into consideration weather parameters like the day’s temperature, relative humidity, wind and angle of the sun.
 
 Though sultry weather conditions is troubling residents of Patna, most parts of the state are unlikely to face heatwave conditions over the next one week.
 
 In meteorological terms, a heatwave is declared in this part of the world when the maximum temperature exceeds 40 degrees C and is at least 4.5 degrees Celsius above normal. The local Met office has predicted the mercury to remain around 37-38 degrees C till Sunday.
 
 Southern districts like Gaya are likely to witness hotter days though. The Met office has predicted the maximum temperature at Gaya to surge up to 44 degrees C by Sunday.
 
 Places like Bhagalpur and   in north Bihar are expected to witness comparatively lower temperature. Maximum temperature at both places is likely to hover around 35-37 degrees C over the next five days.
 
 
