BARWANI: A five-month-old  , who was found in dehydrated condition in Bawan Gaja village forest, was sent to  , Bhopal on Sunday after being treated via   .

 This was probably for the first time in state that a wild animal was treated through telemedicine.
 
 Sub divisional officer (forest) of Barwani, MS Maurya, told TOI that the cub was brought to district headquarters in dehydrated condition from compartment No 72 of Bawan Gaja forest village on May 15. Besides being dehydrated, it was also suffering from fits.
 
 “The local veterinarians started the cub’s treatment as per visible symptoms, but didn’t get encouraging results. We then contacted animal experts in Bhopal’s Van Vihar, who initially advised us to take the cub there,” Maurya said.
 
 As condition of the cub was not good, the officials in Barwani and Bhopal decided to carry out treatment via telemedicine facility, which probably had never been done before in state or country for a wild animal, he said.
 
 Using the facility, Van Vihar veterinary specialist Dr Atul Gupta studied cub’s condition and symptoms of the disease. He then advised that the animal’s blood sample be sent to forensic lab in   for test. It was found that the cub was suffering from parvo virus infection.
 
 Maurya said that initially, they faced difficulty in determining right dosage of the medicine. But regular coordination between Dr Gupta and Barwani's veterinary doctors Mahendra Baghel and Ishrat Ali ensured everything went well. A week later, the cub’s blood test was carried out again and no trace of the infection was found, the   said.
 
 Dr Baghel said that parvo virus affects respiratory system of an animal, and if it was not treated within time, it could prove fatal. “ After the cub was brought to Barwani, we were in dilemma as we had never treated such case but Dr Atul Gupta’s help through telemedicine paid off and we were able to treat the cub,” he said.
 
 He said that the young one was consuming about 250 to 300 grams of meat at 10 o'clock in morning and at 8 in night and was also drinking plenty of water.
 
 Maurya said that officials preferred to send the cub to Van Vihar instead of forest, because it had been separated from mother. “ Also, the temperature in forest area is very high. At Van Vihar, the cub will get better care and proper meals and water,” he said.
 
