OOTY: After months of delay and anticipation, the   Siri Horticulture Garden was finally thrown open at Fern Hills amidst the hilly landscape of the Nilgiris on Monday. 

 It’s an ambitious project of the Karnataka horticulture department. “With over 30 lakh tourists visiting Ooty every year, department officials are hopeful of surpassing the revenue generated by the hill station’s own botanical garden (maintained by Kerala government), which has an annual turnover of Rs 9-10 crore,” said B K Krishnamurthy, assistant horticulture officer.
 
 While the work for the garden’s second phase has already begun, officials say it would be completed by March this year. A three-acre designated parking space has already been allocated for the garden owing to constraints in the hill station.
  
  
 The Rs 12 crore-project has been in progress for the past 10 years; development activities have intensified since 2014. It boasts of attractions like a 10-acre   garden (art of training plants into decorative shapes), a pre-existing frigid zone glass house (housing low temperature climate plants) and an Italian garden.
 
 Inaugurating the garden on Monday, Karnataka horticultural and agricultural marketing minister S S Mallikarjun said his department officials have been asked to prepare detailed project reports (DPRs) to develop sites like Nandi Hills, Kemmanagundi and KRS among others on a par with international standards.
 
 “The department received ample funding from the government last year and a host of developmental activities have been going on, some of which have been completed,” he said. 
 
 
 
 The second phase of the garden will boast of a viewpoint, giving tourists a bird’s-eye view of the garden. “We will also run eco cars around the garden as there will be more slopes than steps. This will enable tourists to explore the garden tirelessly,” said Krishnamurthy. 
 
 Phase II will also have nearly five waterbodies, including a chasing fountain, a pool for aquatic species, one for ornamental fish and two dedicated for collection of water through rainwater harvesting. 
 
 
 
 
 Entry to the garden will be free for the public till March 31. “From April onwards, we are planning to levy a fee of Rs 25 for adults and Rs 15 for children (aged above six),” said Krishnamurthy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Situated on the land since 1979, the frigid glass house is home to flowers that grow only at an altitude of 7,000 feet above sea level. Officials from the department said from April to June this year, the house will host orchids as well. 
 
 
 
 
 The garden is most famous for topiaries, that were created nearly 60 years ago, covering an expanse of 10 acres of the garden. 
 
 
 
 
 Three smaller gardens within the space — the Italian garden with sculptures and flower arrangements inspired by 15th century villas of Rome and Florence; the maze garden, which is an outdoor labyrinth wherein passages are divided by vertical hedge walls and the tea garden — are among the attractions. 
 
 
 
 
 In 1964, on the behest of MH Marigowda, Maharaja of Mysore Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar donated 62.14 acres of land to the Karnataka government. This was to help farmers of Karnataka procure potato seeds from a much nearer place rather than travelling all the way to Shimla in north India. The 38.91-acre land, most of which has been utilized for the project, was initially used for producing these seeds which were transported to Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Kolar.
 
 
