AJMER: Local   leaders want Prime Minister   to address at least one election rally in Ajmer. Modi will visit Barmer to lay foundation stone for the refinery on January 16.

 Bypoll will be a tough affair for the saffron party as Ajmer is the local constituency of PCC chief  . Besides, BJP holds all the eight assembly constituencies, municipal council and zila parishad here.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP has issued a list of 40 star campaigners for Alwar, Ajmer and Mandalgarh in which Modi and BJP president Amit Shah have been included.
 
 There are leaders and ministers like Piyush Goyal for business class section, C R Choudhary for Jat voters, Arjun Ram Meghwal for Dalit voters,   Shekhawat for Rajput voters, Arjun Meena for ST voters and Bhupendra Yadav for local voters of Ajmer.
 
 “The spirit of workers will boost if Modi address in the constituency,” said a local leader.
 
 Interestingly, for the first time, Niharika Raje is included in the list of star campaigners. She is the daughter-in-law of chief minister   and belongs to a Gujjar family.
 
 In Ajmer, Gujjars are in good numbers and influenced by Pilot. Sources said that Raje once thought to make Niharika contest assembly election from Pushkar seat. She is likely to influence Gujjar voters of Mandalgarh assembly bypolls as there are 8,000 Gujjars in this constituency. Raje herself will make many rallies and address mass gathering as she is well known to the caste politics of Ajmer.
 
  is putting all efforts in Ajmer and Pilot is camping in Ajmer for the next 15 days. He will monitor campaign of Alwar and Mandalgarh from here. “Presence of Pilot is enough for Ajmer as all Congress workers know him personally and he knows every worker by their names,” said a Congress leader.
 
 Besides Pilot, former CM Ashok Gehlot, Rameshwar Dudi, Vivek Bansal, Girja Vyas and other leaders will campaign in Ajmer. Congress don’t want to lose these three seats to give message to voters and BJP for upcoming assembly elections in November this year.
 
 
