PATNA: At least 15 persons died and several others were injured in separate road accidents in Patna, Purnia, Khagaria and Muzaffarpur districts in the state.

 Five persons died and seven others were grievously injured after a truck collided with an auto-rickshaw on NH-30 near   Bazaar under the Maner police station area in Patna at around 11.30am while two died after their bus turned turtle while trying to overtake a oil tanker near Nasibulchak on NH-30 under the   police station area at around 3.30pm on Sunday. Fatuha SHO Naseem Ahmed said the deceased included one Meera Devi (45) of Biharsharif in Nalanda district and the bus driver, whose identity could not be ascertained till filing of the report. 
 
 Maner SHO   said four of the five deceased were identified as Annu Paswan (50), Rajkumar Paswan (8), Rajeev Kumar Sharma (35) and Dayanand Paswan (50).
 
 “The body of an unidentified male was kept at Danapur subdivisional hospital,” he said, adding all the injured were rushed to the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) where two of them were serious. “The truck was going to Bihta from Danapur and the three-wheeler with the passengers was coming from Bihta,” he said and added, “The truck was seized but the driver managed to escape.” 
 
 The SHO said Annu and Dayanand were from Jafra Bhagwanpur under the Naubatpur police station area while Rajkumar and Rajeev were from Jamunia Tola under the Maner police station area.
 
 Maner circle officer Anju Singh said the process of paying ex gratia to the next of kin of the deceased was initiated. “The injured persons were Umesh Paswan and his wife Kiran Devi of Jamunia Tola, Jitendra Prasad and his daughters Ribha Kumari, Pammi Kumari and Gudia Kumari, all from Kurtha in Jehanabad, and Manoj Paswan of Maner,” Singh said.
 
 In Purnia, four persons died when two trucks collided near an overbridge on NH-57 under the Kasba police station area at around 2am on Sunday. Kasba SHO Arvind Kumar said the deceased were the truck drivers and co-drivers of both the trucks. “One truck jumped the divider on the national highway connecting Darbhanga and Siliguri and rammed into another one coming from the opposite side. The bodies were trapped inside the mangled cabin,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, one Munni Devi (25) was crushed to death by a tractor while her husband   (28) was injured at Bhagwatipur village under the Ahiyapur police station area in Muzaffarpur district on Sunday. Police said Munni was riding pillion on Mahendra’s bike when the tractor dashed against them from behind. Police sources quoting villagers said the tractor driver was using earphones and perhaps failed to hear the screams of Munni when she fell from the two- wheeler and was run over.
 
 Three more persons were killed on NH-107 near Kaithi Vishwakarma under the Chatham police station area in Khagaria district when the auto-rickshaw they were travelling in collided head-on with an SUV on Saturday evening. SHO Mukesh Jha said the deceased were identified as   (62), Rajendra Sharma (60) and Munna Mahto (40) from different areas of Khagaria district. He said the process of ex gratia payment to the next of kin of the deceased was initiated. The SHO said Munna was the auto driver. The SUV driver escaped.
 
 
