PATNA: Weathermen on Wednesday predicted more thundersqualls and rain in many parts of Bihar over the next two days. “Strong low level convergence, moisture incursion and presence of jet-speed winds in the upper levels are providing conducive conditions for the occurrence of severe thundersqualls and heavy rainfall at isolated places in eastern India comprising Gangetic West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and northeastern states during the next two days,”   ( ) bulletin stated on Wednesday. 

 “On Thursday, thunderstorm accompanied with gusty winds will prevail in Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Kerala. The forecast from May 2 to May 6 is that 1-25% of rainfall will be witnessed in the parts of Bihar,” the IMD bulletin stated.
 
 Meanwhile, a steep fall in the maximum temperatures has been observed after the thunderstorm activities during the last two days. The maximum temperature recorded on Tuesday was 30.8 degrees Celsius which means a significant drop of around 9-10 degrees C, resulting in pleasant weather conditions for upcoming couple of weeks, claimed experts.
 
 Weather expert Pradhan Parth  , associate professor at the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, Central University of South Bihar, said the thunderstorm activities during the past few days can be attributed to the cyclonic circulation arising from eastern parts of West Bengal.
 
 “The trough is further extending to western Uttar Pradesh and Delhi and if the cyclonic circulation moves towards Bihar, thunderstorm activity is expected to continue for a couple of weeks. Besides, the movement of the wind is from west to east due to which maximum rainfall and thunderstorm is expected to prevail in north-eastern parts of Bihar,” Sarthi said.
 
 “The night temperatures will remain cool and pleasant and the temperature in the daytime will also hover around 30 to 32 degrees with moderate thundershowers and squally winds for a few days. The pre-monsoon weather conditions in the eastern parts can be directly attributed to below average rainfall this year.”
 
 
