As she walks into the TOI office, wearing denims and a green tee — and that million-watt smile — you would almost forget that   has come out of one of the most difficult phases of her life. A controversial breakup with husband Rahul, buying a new home, settling down as a single mom, finding her footing afresh in the industry… it’s been a tough couple of years for the actress. But the struggle has made her calmer and more confident. And made her realise that “a single woman doesn’t always need a man”. She doesn’t mind the tradeoff. Excerpts from a chat:

 
 
 (Smiles) Thanks to my audience for loving me always and accepting me with open arms. Yes, there was a long gap. After   was born, I took a break to be with him. I started working very young, so I consciously wanted some me time to groom myself. In these years, I gathered a lot of experience, both good and bad, which has eventually made me a stronger person. And today, I am doing so many interesting projects.
 
 
 
 
 I started my career as a heroine. Then, for whatever reasons, I got cast only as a character artiste. And now, after years, I am doing a commercial film, Sultan, opposite Jeet. I am hoping the film works out well. The story, my character and every other aspect of the film are quite different from what we usually see.
 
 
 
 True, but one cannot predict which film will work and which won’t. Did anyone ever think that a film like Chirodini… Tumi Je Amar will be a superhit, and that too, with debutants as a director and actors? No, but it clicked with the audience. Likewise, I feel the story of Sultan will click with the audience and it is not a mindless commercial film.
 
 
 
 As a performing artiste, always Priyanka, the actor, will get priority because essaying meaty roles gives us creative satisfaction. But, to tell you the truth, when I go for macha shows people want me to sing, dance or say dialogues from Chirodini and not from films in which my performances were appreciated much more. One has to admit that a commercial film has much wider reach and I love it when thousands of people shout and call me Chirodinir Priyanka. So, Priyanka — the heroine — definitely matters too. But I’m happy that I’m doing all kinds of films, and most importantly, directors are considering me for essential characters. It feels like the phase after Chirodini, when I was flooded with offers, is back.
 
 
 
 
 (After a pause) At one point of time, I was giving priority to the home front. But I don’t regret that, as negativity will not help me in any way. People often tell me that if I would have continued working and not taken a break back then, I would have reached greater heights in my career. I tell them I respect the time when I got married early, concentrated on my family and looked after my child. I admit I have taken a lot of wrong decisions, but I gathered a lot of experience from those mistakes. I was not mature enough to take the right decisions and there was no one to guide me. Workwise too, I made mistakes, but there’s no point looking back as I can’t do anything about it now. But it is not that I misbehaved on the sets, as directors do repeat me.
 
 
 
 (After a pause) I don’t… I had my share of good times too and most importantly, I have Sohoj from that marriage. But it was not a peaceful marriage with Rahul. We started living in very young and got married quite young too. It was a hasty and an immature decision. And for this, my relationship with my parents got strained and it took me years and a lot of effort to fix it. Now, my parents are fine with me and I feel sorry that I had hurt them so much. There was miscommunication with many industry people, as I was away from work and was turning down offers. Thank god, I have been able to repair the damage. When I should have concentrated on my studies and career, I spent it on my relationship!
 
 
 
 I was depressed and went through an extremely tough time. When I was in a relationship with Rahul, be it before marriage or after that, I gave my 100% and expected the same in return. But when I found out that things were not as desired, I preferred to walk out of the marriage as I was sinking into depression and it was not good for my son. I realised, I have to live for Sohoj. I really don’t know whether Rahul was dating Sandipta then or whether he is still dating her. Neither do I want to know. When I took the decision of not staying together, it was a culmination of many things and not one thing in particular. And later, I came to know of many such names in Rahul’s life but whether they are true or not, I have no clue. If it hurts my self-respect, there’s no point staying in a relationship. Later, I realised Rahul and I were not compatible.
 
 
 Not at all. I am only concerned about Sohoj’s upbringing, his future and his studies. Till date, I have taken all of Sohoj’s responsibilities — financial and others. Other than coming to my house and playing with him, Rahul has not taken any responsibility of a father until now. I don’t want any alimony from him but I have asked him what he can do to secure Sohoj’s future financially as it is getting difficult for me now. Rahul has wanted some time and I have given him that so that he can come up with a solution. When I moved into my new house with Sohoj, I remember I was working 24x7 as I wanted money. It is not easy for a single mother… life is tough!
 
 
 
 Will that mend things? No. So what’s the point? My self-respect is very important. The media has asked me so many things about why Rahul and I broke up and also about his affairs but I always maintained a dignified silence because he is Sahoj’s father. My son shouldn’t feel uncomfortable reading anything about his father, later in his life.
 
 
 
 
 Anyone who is close to my son was invited to his birthday party. I told Rahul if he wants to invite his friends, he can. So, Sandipta was invited as Sohoj knows her well. But as I said before, I am only concerned about my work and Sohoj’s future. I don’t interfere in Rahul’s life and want the same from him. I feel, once a relationship breaks, it can never be fixed.
 
 
 
 No. He is too young to understand such complexities. And I started living in this new house when he was just two, so he is used to seeing only me around always.
 
 
 
 
 First of all, Tathagata is my best friend. We are seen together, so people are talking about it as media talks about our diet, dresses and so on. Just a few days back, I heard a director’s name being linked with me. So the names keep changing, which also means that I am being talked about! (Laughs) A single woman doesn’t always need a man. I am at peace with my work and my son, and I do have a good set of friends.
 
 
 
 
 Yes. I am looking forward to work with Arindamda as I find his films edgy, with a smart look. I am also part of Birsa Dasgupta’s Crisscross, where I play an Anglo-Indian girl called Suzy. And I must tell you that the script and my character are just brilliant.
 
 
 
 
 (Laughs) In fact, Rukmini (Maitra) said the same thing at Kabir’s music launch. Yes, I was part of  ,  , Kabir and according to Dev, I am in all his future projects. But sadly, I can’t reveal the names of the films right now. I am honoured that Dev feels I’m worthy of being taken on board.
 
 
 
 That I am at peace with myself is the secret! I work out every day for two hours, without missing a single day. This helps me to stay in shape and it is an excellent stressbuster. After sunset, I don’t eat carbs. I mostly eat boiled vegetables and fruits. And now, I give myself time, which I never used to earlier. Now I love myself, which I never did before. Work, which had taken a backseat a few years ago, is my priority now. Now, I don’t let negativity affect me at all. But one thing for sure — Priyanka forgives but never forgets. All these put together make me a sorted and a much calmer person from inside, which I guess reflects on my face.
 
