Thiruvananthapuram: There was a time, in the late ’70s and early ’80s, when many youths in the state capital flaunted a Marlboro or Rothmans and sprinkled themselves liberally with Brut as a macho statement. As for middle class families, Hitachi, Sony and National Panasonic had become household names. All thanks to Beemapally, a hamlet along the coast that was the hub for foreign goods.

 Traders in this hamlet used to collect goods from Malaysia, Singapore and the Middle East and sell it in the open market here. Of course, the licence raj was in force then and you couldn’t think of buying exported goods legally here.
 
 Be it an imported video player, tape recorder, perfumes, cigarettes, audio or video cassettes, dress materials, one could easily get it from one of the 150 shops situated along the street in front of Beemapally. Even post-liberalization, the business was good there. But, now the scene is different. The lane wears a deserted look with many of the shops converted into small juice parlours, bakeries and some selling DVD players and CDs. “It is not that the demand for foreign goods has come down. But the advent of huge retail chains and online shopping has hit the prospects of traders here. People had begun their business by taking huge loans and are now facing attachments from the financial institutions,’’ said Beemapally Rasheed, Muslim League leader and councillor from the region.
 
 Several traders have diversified into other businesses since the foreign goods trade had become less lucrative. “We had to consider other options since all the goods are now available in the bigger shops like Big Bazaar and other retail chains. Online shopping also gave a huge shock since they started offering EMIs for costly items,’’ said Aboosh Rehman, a former trader who has moved to real estate business now. “You won’t believe it is poverty and debt that is the balance sheet of many traders here. Now, only a meagre sale of CDs, toys and some electronic goods happen here,” Aboosh added.
 
 The final nail on the coffin was the expansion of Kochi and Kozhikode airports as cargo hubs. “In the 80s Thiruvananthapuram used to be the only international airport and lot of cargo used to reach here. People from Beemapally used to purchase goods from those who did not have money to pay customs duty. This is not happening now,’’ said Mohammed Samad who runs a shop there.
 
 
