PATNA: The new   ( ), Kumar Ravi, on Tuesday said traffic congestion and encroachments in the state capital were two major civic problems he would try to find a solution for.

 After taking the charge on late Monday evening, Kumar Ravi interacted with the officials at the collectorate on Tuesday and gave them lessons on personnel and financial management.
 
 Ravi, a 2005 batch   cadre IAS officer, also sorted his priorities for both the rural and urban sectors. State government’s seven resolves (Saat Nishchay), prohibition and war against child marriage and dowry were on top of his priority list. “As  , I have to take care of development in both the rural and urban areas. In the case of rural areas, executing all the development programmes of the government will be my priority,” he said and added he had instructed his officials to be easily accessible to the common people.
 
 The upcoming human chain formation on January 21 is another big event he would be working for, he said and added the administration would chalk out proper traffic route, crowd management and drinking water facility for the human chain event in the district.
 
 Ravi told the officials to properly track bank accounts and cash books. He has also planned a meeting with the head clerks of all the sections on the first day of every month to review the working. He has asked the subdivisional magistrates, deputy collector land reforms, block development officers and circle officers to organize a review meeting with the employees working under them on weekly basis.
 
 He also gave March 31 deadline to upload the details of arms licences to the national database of arms licence (NDAL) website. He also reviewed the action taken with regard to prohibition and destruction of liquor in the district.
 
 The new DM also inspected Hindi Bhavan premises where different sections of the collectorate are to be shifted. He instructed the officials to get a big conference hall constructed on the first floor and various offices on the other floors of the building.
 
 
