Bolpur: The lives and works of Rabindranath Tagore, Kaji Nazrul Islam and Netaji, revered equally on both sides of the border, will be the cornerstone of Bangladeshi premier Sheikh Hasina’s May 25-26 visit to Bengal. 

 Hasina’s packed two-day itinerary includes visits to Visva-Bharati University, Rabindra Bharati University’s Jorasanko Thakurbari campus, Kazi Nazrul University and Netaji Bhavan. She is expected to reach Kolkata on Friday morning and return on Saturday evening, say sources. 
 
 The Bangladeshi PM’s first stop after arriving in Kolkata will be Bolpur, where she — along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee — will attend the varsity’s convocation ceremony and then inaugurate Bangladesh Bhavan. 
 
 The Bhavan will house a museum, library and auditorium, resonating Bengal’s deep ties with Bangladesh. Vikram Agarwal, a senior NBCC official, said: “The building combines tradition with modernity. The socio-cultural influences of Santiniketan and Bangladesh have been merged here.” 
 
 P Mohangandhi, the Birbhum district magistrate, said: “Coordination meetings of all departments concerned and the university authorities have been held. We are in constant touch with the university authority and agencies concerned.” 
 
 Sabujkali Sen, officiating vice chancellor of Visva-Bharati, said, “Our students, teachers and officials are busy with their allotted tasks to make the programme a success. We have to make arrangements as per security and protocol guidelines.” 
 
  will be gifted a set of Rabindra Chitrabali ( Tagore’s paintings in four volumes) alongwith other gifts.
 
 The Bangladesh PM will leave for Jorasanko Thakurbari in the afternoon. “She will stay for 45 minutes on the campus,” confirmed RBU vice-chancellor Sabyasachi Basu Raychowdhury. She is likely to visit the rooms where Tagore was born. “She will also visit the museum,” added Basu Raychowdhury. 
 
 On Saturday morning, Hasina will leave for Asansol to receive the honorary DLitt from Kazi Nazrul University at its third convocation.
 
 In the afternoon, Hasina will visit Netaji Bhavan. “She will stay for 40 minutes. She knows my mother and me. We have a historic photograph of Bangabandhu with my father Sisir Kumar Bose taken in Dhaka in January 1972. We also have the original copy in Netaji’s own handwriting sitting in Mandalay jail writing Amar Sonar Bangla. We will hand over a high quality digital print of the copy to her. We will take her through the highlights of the museum and show her rare film footage of Netaji with Tagore,” said MP Sugata Bose.
 
 (Inputs from Somdatta Basu in Kolkata and 
 
 Md Asif in Burdwan)
 
 
