The judgmental stares and disapproving comments that so-called ‘freakans’ get every time in public are enough to put them off. However, a few among them are now trying for an image makeover through their unique ways. They have already formed groups on social media to promote 
their cause.
 
 The meet-up of a group named The  , with ‘mudiyanmar’ as the members who have grown out their hair call themselves, in Thiruvananthapuram recently contributed to providing meals at an old-age home.
 
 The group, which initially began on WhatsApp with a few people, now has around 230 members aged between 17 and 37 years, who post their daily experiences including the disparaging remarks from those around.
 
 One of its admins Arjun BS says that outward appearance is not everything, which many from the society fail to understand. “Just because we have a particular style, it does not mean that we can be bullied, saying we might be drug peddlers or alcoholics resorting to anti-social activities. That’s why we started the group to tell the world that we can be as human as anybody and can indulge in humanitarian deeds too,” he says. “Through our charitable efforts, we want to send a positive message about ourselves and reveal that we also have a heart that beats for fellow citizens.”
 
 The get-together had members from Kasargode to Thiruvananthapuram voicing their concerns and also reaching out to the needy. Ajin Ambro, another admin of the group, says that people look at them as strange beings. “We are often sneered at. They ask us ‘do you bathe?’ and ‘what kind of style is this?’”
 
 However, he recalls an instance when they collected funds for an ill person and had gone to the hospital to hand it over. “We were welcomed with disapproval. However, once we handed the money over to the patient’s mother, she said, ‘We used to look at you differently, but now, our opinions have changed’.”
 
 Four representatives from the group are now planning to meet in Kochi to help one of their member’s mother, who has been bedridden for a while. 
 On choosing charity to make their statement, another member Ninesh M K, says, “When compared to events such as flash mobs, indulging in such activities will have a lasting effect among people and will drive home a strong message.” 
 
 The Kerala Hairys Society is not the only group choosing the humanitarian route to change the society’s perception about the so-called freakans.
 Shobith Prashanth from   says that they have organised several charity, fashion shows and most recently a drug awareness campaign in Thiruvananthapuram.
 For their upcoming event Happy Schooling at Nilambur, they have tied up with a bikers group Yathrika to provide kits comprising bags and umbrellas to 200 students for `750. “We have conducted a mesh of events, of which charity is one of the aspects. We will also be hosting an anniversary show, inviting participants from all over the country to flaunt their beards. They will be judged on varied categories such as longest beard, most stylish beard et al.”
 
 Individuals too are doing their bid to set an example. Professional photographer Ashok Fabiano, who was part of the event Freakzz United organised by Oorali Martin last year. “Personally, I do not keep claiming that I am a ‘freakan’, as growing hair was just part of everyday life. That said, after equipping myself with various house-building skills, I have been working on creating a living space and collecting the re-usable materials available from the surroundings,” he says.
 
 Be it with or without a group, one must always strive to do things that are good for the society and leave behind a lesson or two, Arjun says. “Minimalism has been my motto for building a house in a 75 cent land in Idukki, and I hope with this, the definition of what a home is would change. There has been a huge difference between what we want compared to what we actually need.”
 
 Through their efforts, Ninesh believes that ‘freakans’ in the coming years will have it easier
 
 
