HYDERABAD: On board AI 0546: After some hard partying the night before and day-long classes on the interplay of neuropsychology and leadership at the Indian School of Business, Hyderabad, all I had in mind was sleep. 

 My home in Chennai was a little more than an hour from the   airport where   AI 0546 was ready to be pushed out of the apron at 10.30pm. Then, nothing happened. About ten minutes later, the speakers crackled to life. A tired-sounding pilot announced the bad news: A flight had just had a tyre burst on landing at the only functional runway, and our departure would be delayed by 90 minutes.
 
 The hapless cabin crew must have thought the best way to the passengers' hearts was through the stomach, and served lousy sandwiches and packaged juice. After a few minutes of loud sighs and lamentations, passengers turned to their mobile phones and tablets. More than 30 minutes later, as the A 321's air-conditioning struggled to keep the capacity crowd of 172 passengers comfortable, the crew allowed a few passengers (who were now loud in their protest) out on the aerobridge to stretch their legs.
 
 The cabin supervisor pointed out the flickering lights of vehicles surrounding the beleaguered Indigo ATR. By midnight, when there was no announcement on the probable time of departure, the supervisor's newfound friends turned on him. One demanded a business class upgrade - impossible. Two senior citizens walked up and down the aisle, telling everyone about the joys of train travelling. Fortunately, there were no wailing children. By 1.30am, all hell broke loose. A few women joined the men on the aerobridge, confronting the Air India duty manager who appeared to be keen on jumping off the bridge.
 
 From the aerobridge, I saw the only person at peace with himself: the captain was snoring away in the cockpit. I took a cue from the commander of the craft and decided to sleep. It was humid inside the cabin, but I realised neuropsychology was right when it came to biological shutdowns after two nights of good drinks and bad sleep.
 
 At 3.40, the speakers came to life again, this time telling us that the flight was ready to take off. The pilot who had taken more than 40 winks in the cockpit had been replaced as the crew had overshot its duty time. The new captain's voice wasn't any more energetic than the previous one, but his words were clear: "Cabin crew report at stations for take-off."
 
 We took off at 3.48am and landed in Chennai at 4.40am. Now, please let me sleep.
 
 
