 is a busy lady these days as she has so much more going on in her life other than acting. As   is going through a rough phase, she has kept herself busy by singing in concerts and taking part in dance shows. We spoke to the ‘Sethupathi’ actress, who was in the Coimbatore recently to attend an event.

 Talking about her films, she says, “These days it’s a bit tough to be selective, but you should be very careful while choosing scripts. I have made mistakes in the past while choosing scripts. In the last few years, I have been very keen on selecting scripts where my character is as important as others. My last outing was ‘Sathya’ and ‘Natpuna Ennanu Theriyuma’ is coming up next. I am in no hurry to sign films. I am calm and composed, waiting for the right opportunity.”
 
 She adds, “I always wanted to be versatile, that’s how an actress should be. I have tried all kinds of roles in Malayalam. In Tamil, I have a homely image. I want to break that in this film ‘Natpuna Ennanu Theriyuma’, where I play a tomboyish character. I am trying to be versatile in Tamil industry, but it also depends on what kind of scripts come my way,” she adds.
 
  has been a successful playback singer too. So, how does she manage both careers? “I am an artiste. Singing, acting and dancing are all the same to me. I am in a situation where I don’t want to take a vacation. So, whatever I do, I enjoy it. Singing was a big bonus in my life. I was trained in Carnatic, but I never knew I would get into playback singing. I am so happy that I am a singer now and I am just enjoying singing. It is difficult to manage both. When you are shooting, your throat might get affected. When you have a singing concert you have to prepare for that. These challenges are there, but I am coping with it as I am ready for the challenge.”
 
 You work simultaneously in two industries. What is the difference between both industries and how do you adapt yourself in each? “Whether it is the Mollywood or Kollywood, the working pattern is more or less the same. In Tamil Nadu, people appreciate more, but in Kerala people are more critical when it comes to evaluating films and performances. In Tamil Nadu, cinema is quite fancy and fans admire us more than we expect. But there, it is critical because they are used to realistic films. People there are exposed to many foreign movies. As of now, I am more into 
 . I have played a cameo in Karthik Subbaraj’s recent release. I will be playing a cameo in ‘Seethakaathi’ apart from ‘Natpuna Ennanu Theriyuma’. I also think Kollywood is trying to do more realistic films and now they demand more subtle performances than being loud.”
 
 Has she signed any new films recently? “Unfortunately there are a lot of things going around in Tamil Nadu. With the Kollywood strike going on everyone is confused when to start their work. But, I have been listening to scripts and I am also waiting for the strike to get over as I am awaiting my next film’s release. I have been doing a lot of classical dance performances and I am doing singing concerts to keep myself engaged. When it comes to playback singing, I have sung five to six songs and they are yet to release. I have sung for ‘Sathuranga Vettai 2’ and for Nivas Prasanna, hopefully they get released soon.”
 
 Talking about the experience of working with   in three movies (‘Pizza’, ‘Sethupathi’ and ‘Seethakaathi’) she says, “I don’t share screen space with him in ‘Seethakaathi’. I have a totally different role. Vijay Sethupathi is a magical actor. He creates the magic when you do a scene with him. I share a good rapport with him. He is a refined human being, who is real and genuine. You know when stardom strikes we have a tendency to change our attitude, mindset and the way we behave. But, he is the same guy whom I met during ‘Pizza’ . That’s why he is ‘Makkal Selvan’.”
 
 What does she think are the challenges actors are going to face in the next five years with so many changes happening in the industry? “With the growth of social media and its influence in all the industries, I think we will be challenged on a regular basis. You have to do something innovative to remain alive in the industry. I am an artiste who doesn’t plan anything. I live today to the fullest and take tomorrow when it comes. So, I can’t tell anyone where I see myself in five or ten years down the lane.”
 
 There is a lot of talk about   across industries. Several actresses have talked about it in the recent times. What is her take on that? “I am not ignoring the fact that my co actors and friends have spoken about the bad influence that exists in the industry. But, fortunately I have not gone through this. I have been very sure about what I am doing and I always learned to say no to whatever I didn’t want to do. But, I am ashamed that my friends have faced such issues, I am not saying it is not there because I haven’t gone through this, but I don’t have a personal experience. I think the only way to get rid of this is by speaking about it. Now, we have several platforms to talk about it and people are actually listening to what you say. This is not a problem that exists only in cine industry, but everywhere. So, women should be strong and talk about it.” 
 
 
