JAIPUR: The   ( ) has asked the chief secretary of   to take disciplinary action against the officials for blatantly violating the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 during the translocation of tiger T-91 to the   (MHTR).

 The NTCA has also asked the CS to submit a report after taking action. The letter dated, April 6, 2018, written by additional director general (Project Tiger) and member secretary (NTCA) reads, “On the said wilful and blatant violation of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 by authorities in the state of Rajasthan, you are requested to fix responsibility and take appropriate disciplinary action against the erring officials and action taken report may kindly be submitted to this authority at the earliest.” 
 
 Sources in the state government confirmed that the letter from NTCA has been received and reply will be sent within this week. 
 
 The letter says it was found that authorities in Rajasthan in complete violation of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 have captured tiger T-91 near the Ramgarh Vishdhari Wildlife Sanctuary for translocation to the MHTR without prior concurrence of the NTCA. The letter further reads, “The in-principle approval accorded by the   for re-introduction of tigers at the MHTR was in abeyance for want of compliance to recommendation made by a Committee constituted by this Authority,”
 
 The NTCA has mentioned that these recommendations were made as per the mandate of the NTCA conferred by the section 38O (1) (F) and section 38 O (I) (k) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 which was communicated as per power derived from section 38 O (2) of the said Act.
 
 “The non-compliance was infact communicated to the Chief Wildlife Warden, Rajasthan personally by the undersigned, who hastily submitted a prey estimation report of the MHTR instead of a composite report encompassing various facets which would have facilitated and safeguarded future of the tiger at   hills,” adds the letter. 
 
 To make the state government’s ambitious project successful, the forest department did not adhere to a single recommendation provided by the DIG (NTCA) Nishant Verma after his tour to MHTR on February 20 and 21 this year. 
 
 The NTCA has sought a detailed report from the Chief Wildlife Warden after the relocation plan was secretly changed from Selzar Range to Darrah without giving any intimation . 
 
 The NTCA field report reads, “As per the received proposal, the tiger translocation was to be taken up in the northern part of the tiger reserve (Selzar area, Borawas Range) where prey base augmentation has been carried out by translocating spotted deer, sambar in the Selzar area of MHTR.”
 
 
