Verem: Praising the grit, determination and commitment of the six naval officers of INSV Tarini,   Nirmala Sitharaman asked the Indian Navy to explore the possibility of conducting similar adventure expeditions every year. Hailing the success of the circumnavigation, Sitharaman said the entire nation should be proud of Navika Sagar Parikrama.

 “I would suggest to the chief of naval staff that every year there should be some activity, not necessarily a circumnavigation, but each year we should have some activity to keep the interest of our people in the Navy,” Sitharaman said. “This draws a lot of positive attention towards the Indian Navy.”
 
 Speaking after flagging-in INSV Tarini and her crew of six female officers, Sitharaman said that the completion of the first ever circumnavigation by women in Asia was not just motivating, but also humbling. “I feel very honoured and humbled by the great achievement of these six wonderful sailors,” Sitharaman said. “With the grit and courage that the girls have shown, they are back home with all of us having made history and it is just so fortuitous that I am back here to receive them.”
 
 Barely three days after taking over the helm of the defence ministry, Sitharaman had flagged-off Navikar Sagar Parikrama on September 10 last year from INS Mandovi, Verem. Since then, the defence minister has kept a constant watch on the progress of the six officers and has also interacted with them on several occasions. “The motivation I derived from their work, the way they have been steering themselves actually motivated me and my team. Navika Sagar Parikrama is something that all of us can be proud about for generations,” Sitharaman said.
 
 Highlighting the importance of the successful circumnavigation, Sitharaman said that the historic voyage was not just about gender or women, but about Indian youth triumphing over all odds. “I want to lift the motivation argument and not just confine it for ladies of this country, but for all youngsters. Be ready to face the challenges. Show the commitment, grit and dedication,” the minister said.
 
 
