LUDHIANA: It is difficult for a coach to produce even one international player throughout his coaching career but Parminder  , 58, a native of Kila   village, has produced more than 33 medallists including international players with his continuous efforts in the coaching arena from the past 25 years.

 Parminder Singh, coach at National Institute of  , Patiala, is famous by the name of ‘coach Saab Ji’ in nearby five villages along with Kila Raipur. He has not only helped in shaping up the career of national level athletes but also remained the head coach of the winning Indian athletic team in 2006 Asian games. From the past two decades he is the only person under whose guidance all athletic events take place at the Kila Raipur games which is famous across the world by the name of the mini-rural Olympics.
 
 While speaking to  , he said, “At present I supervise all athletic events in rural Olympics and help the village youngsters to learn the tactics which further help them to improvise their performance at national and international games. I started my sports career from this Grewal sports stadium, in Kila Raipur, and continued till I secured a   medal at a national event in 1979. Under my training, players not only secured medals at national events but also won at Asian Games and Common Wealth Games.”
 
 Apart from that, he has trained some of the veteran athletes and has motivated them to perform in the Kila Raipur games in their village which become major source of motivation for youngsters of the villagers who mostly come to see the sportsman spirit of the veteran athletes. “Spectators mostly come to catch a glimpse of the adventurous and veteran athletic event during the three-day day Kila Raipur games. However, they remain unacquainted with the difficulties faced by the ground level officials to conduct the event,” said  , one member of core committee.
 
 He added that last year he got an opportunity to feature in the video song of Gurdas Maan in which an aged person defeated a young man during a 100-meter race event. I am still on a lookout for young talented players who can make the county proud in international games.
 
 “One of the major reasons why I prefer being part of Kila Raipur games is that numerous young talented players appear every year in this sports extravaganza unaware of their true potential who are unaware of their true potential. It is only after being provided a platform to showcase their skills that they emerge as a national and international players. I am 59 years old and as fit as other sports lovers who take part in 60 plus age category. My mission in life is to produce more than 50 international medallists for India, and help the talented people coming from rural areas, where they usually face a lack of basic facilities.”
 
 
