AHMEDABAD:   — whose services as a chartered accountant were used by the mysterious Mahesh Shah, who made a Rs 13,860 crore disclosure under the Income Disclosure Scheme 2016 (IDS 2016) and then developed cold feet — was arrested by Navrangpura police in a Rs 7 crore cheating and forgery case. However soon after his release on bail, Crime branch arrested him in another case of cheating lodged by his wife   Sethana, now a resident of Mumbai. 

 It is worthy to note that In 2016, Sethna had approached the income tax (I-T) department on behalf of Mahesh Shah, for his client’s disclosure of Rs 13,860 crore. Mahesh Shah was later questioned by officials I-T and enforcement directorate officials but did not turn up to pay taxes on his disclosure.
 
  Sethna had then told media that he warned Shah of the consequences of failing to pay the first instalment of taxes. Astonishingly, no action was taken against Shah for not paying the sum due under the IDS.
 
 Now, Shivangi Panchal, 55, a resident of Navrangpura, lodged an FIR stating her sister Parul Modi and she, after the death of their father Pannalal Modi, had entrusted the functioning of their trust, Environment Research and Development Centre, to Sethna, a family friend and a resident of Kairvi Bungalows in Vastrapur.
 
 Inspector Abhijeet Parmar of Navrangpura police station said the complainant alleged that Sethna then took Modi’s signature on a bank account opening form without her knowledge.
 
 “Sethna then allegedly opened an account in the name of the trust in  . The complainant also alleged that transactions worth Rs 6.85 crore were made by forging her sister’s signature,” said Parmar. Police sources said based on the allegations they had lodged an FIR under sections 406, 418,420,461,467,468 and 471 of the IPC for cheating, forgery and breach of trust.
 
 “During the course of investigation, forensic experts examined a specimen signature of the victim and signatures on the with drawal forms and cheques. They were found to be fake and we have arrested Sethna,” Parmar said.
 
 Police sources said while Sethna was released on bail, crime branch arrested him another case of cheating lodged by his wife Kamalrukh Sethna. “Kamalrukh alleged that when she was in Mumabi, Sethna sold off a shop worth Rs 80,000 in her name on SG Road and did not deposit the money in her account. Kamalrukh also alleged that Sethna, with help of share broker Aspi Nasri Gandhi, sold her shares worth Rs 58 lakh and withdrew the money by forging her signature.
 
 Crime branch DCP Deepan Bhadran said they have arrested Sethna and will seek his remand in court on Thursday. 
 
 Police sources said Kamalrukh had filed a divorce petition in a Mumbai court but had to withdraw it due to jurisdiction issues. “She later filed the petition in a Surat court and it is pending.” added a police official.
 
 
