MUMBAI: Exhorting the government to cut red-tape,   on Friday slammed it for delaying paying   to an   from Mumbai.

 A bench of Justices Ravindra Borde and Rajesh Ketkar directed Aarti Thakur to be paid within three weeks Rs 3 lakh under the Manodhairya scheme, which was in vogue at the time of her attack, as an interim measure. It also directed the government to reimburse bills paid by her towards surgeries and medical expenses from 2012-15 within 10 days.
 
 Aarti, then 25, was attacked at Goregaon railway station on January 31, 2012, by her former landlady’s son. She suffered burns on her face, neck and hands. Aarti moved HC challenging the Rs 3 lakh cap and cut-off date of October 2, 2013, onwards on the scheme after she was held ineligible. She thereafter filed for enhanced compensation. The HC had in March 2015 directed the state to pay a private hospital Rs 4 lakh for an upcoming surgery.
 
 The court was miffed that not only was Rs 4 lakh not released but also she did not receive Rs 3 lakh. Government advocate Neha Bhide said Rs 4 lakh was sanctioned but due to delay in receiving bills, it was returned to the department concerned. Bhide also said it was unclear under which version of Manodhairya was Aarti entitled to compensation. The judges said the Supreme Court and HC had observed that there can be no arbitrary cut-off date. They said in such matters, the government should not go into technical and procedural details. “You are so insensitive… This sort of attitude we see when agriculturists commit suicide. You ask so many questions. Person has suffered already. Is it not that your bureaucracy should go to the person and find out what has happened?’’ asked Justice Borde. 
 
 After the bench warned it will recover Rs 4 lakh from the salary of the principal secretary (women & child welfare department), Bhide said it would be paid within 10 days. Aarti’s advocate Meenaz Kakalia said JJ Hospital, which had subsequently done the surgery, had waived charges. She said Aarti had paid “out of her pocket and by taking loans’’ for surgeries and medical expenses. The judges directed that she be reimbursed after the bills are verified.
 
 
