KOCHI: It is learnt that Cochin   Research Centre (CCRC), which was conceptualized with an aim to provide free treatment, will have to generate its own revenue. When the detailed project report (DPR) was sent a couple of months ago to   (KIIFB) seeking funding, the most important query raised by the agency was when CCRC would reach break-even status.

 When Justice   raised apprehensions regarding the financial burden on CCRC, the state government had announced that treatment at CCRC would be completely free. “The query regarding the break-even status once again raises apprehensions that the move to make CCRC a financially autonomous institution is still active. Government shouldn’t back out from its promise as thousands of cancer patients in   and neighbouring districts have pinned their hopes on CCRC,” said Dr NK Sanal Kumar of Justice Krishna Iyer Movement.
 
 
 CCRC officials were unaware of any move to make the institution financially autonomous. “As of now, we offer all investigations and treatment without charging a fee. The cost is borne by the financial aid provided by the government. Last year, the government had given Rs 10 crore for various purposes including procuring machines,” said CCRC superintendent Dr PG Balagopal.
 
 Also, it is learn that the state government has withdrawn funding for the Sukrutham project that provides financial aid for cancer patients.
 
 The benefits of the project were available to patients at Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) and government medical colleges. As government stopped funding,   authorities planned to stop providing free treatment to poor patients under Sukrutham. “We decided to continue the scheme using our own funds,” said RCC director  .
 
 As RCC is an autonomous institutions under the government, it has been charging patients for diagnostics tests and treatment. “If a BPL patient undergoes surgery for breast cancer, her treatment cost at RCC would come to somewhere near Rs 5,000. The same for an   patient will be Rs 50,000. The treatment cost for the same procedure in a private hospital will be Rs 1.5 lakh,” said a doctor with RCC.
 
