PATNA: Patna   (PU) is likely to conduct the first state-level combined entrance test for admission to BEd course soon in all the teachers’ training colleges running under different universities. The exam will be held for selection of candidates for admission to the 2018-20 session.

 A decision to hold the combined entrance test for BEd admissions was taken at the last meeting of vice-chancellors (VC) held at the   under the chairmanship of governor-cum-chancellor   on February 14. Subsequently, a three-member committee, consisting of VCs of different universities, has been constituted to decide the modalities of the entrance test. A team, comprising the officials of the Raj Bhavan and the universities, is scheduled to visit the neighbouring states to procure the details of such entrance tests and to look for competent agencies for conducting the exam in a fair manner. PU has been entrusted the task of holding the first state-level combined entrance test.
 
 The combined entrance test to be conducted by different universities in rotation will consist of multiple-choice objective questions and the selection of candidates for admission will be strictly on merit. The chancellor has directed that no admission beyond the prescribed seats be made in any teachers’ training college.
 
 It may be mentioned here that both the chancellor’s office and the state government have, of late, initiated a number of steps to streamline teachers’ education in the state. There are altogether 212 teachers’ training colleges in  , most of which had so far been functioning arbitrarily, throwing all the norms of regulatory bodies like the   (NCTE) to the wind.
 
 The chancellor’s secretariat in coordination with the state government has fixed the maximum amount of fee to be charged from a candidate seeking admission to the two-year B Ed course in an affiliated training college. The Raj Bhavan has already directed the universities to link the salary accounts of teachers serving in different training colleges with their Aadhar numbers in order to put a check on the impersonators. Payment of honorarium or remuneration to the teachers of affiliated training colleges will be made only through Aadhar-linked bank accounts.
 
 
