A quick glance at the popular VV Puram Thindi Beedi, where the annual   takes place, on a Friday evening may give you an impression that the hustle and bustle is overwhelming. But for Swathi KS, who owns Sri Vasavi Condiments, the sight is a little disappointing this year. “Compared with previous years, there has been a remarkable decline — nearly 50% — in the number of visitors who have come to the bean fair in 2018. The food fest started on January 4 and it’s ending on the 15th, but we still haven’t seen the kind of crowd that is synonymous with this mela. My mother, KS Geetha Shivakumar, has been conducting the   for the past 18 years, and the response has always been overwhelming. But this time around, the scene is different.”

 So, is the charm of the humble beans slowly wearing off or are traffic woes discouraging people to drive down to this part of the city? “Accessibility could be a factor here. The fair is no longer limited to the Food Street alone. Since last year, the Avarekai Mela is also held at other parts of Bengaluru. This year, it’s happening at   (from January 19-28), followed by   (from February 2-11). So, maybe people are waiting for the fest to come to their part of town,” says Swathi.
 
 Keerthi Chandrashekar, who has been a regular visitor at the fair over the years, says, “Perhaps, people no longer like to wade through a crowd or stand in a queue to taste the delicacies.” But for those who love to explore the innumerable culinary possibilities of this popular species of bean, the Avarebele Mela remains a treasure trove. From dosas, vadas, paddus and jalebis to the new entrants on the menu — ice cream, jamun and chaat — the varieties of food items made from avarekai can make even a non-foodie quiver with excitement. “It is also an initiative that helps the farmers of the state to thrive and bring their products to the market. During this season, avarekai tastes the best and a lot of people buy these healthy beans in bulk, stocking up to use for the entire year. More than a food fest, it’s the celebration of a living heritage of  ,” Swathi sums up.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
