NEW DELHI: A day after their six-year-old camp in   was destroyed in a massive fire, 47   — now staying in a temporary tent on an adjacent plot — are looking at an even more uncertain future. 

 Battling the sweltering heat, Mohd Saleem (35) said on Monday that the lone hand pump, the only source of clean water, broke down as too many people were using it. 
 
 “The government has set up the tent but the heat has been troubling us a lot. When we get some respite from the sun, the mosquitoes swarm in as there is a lot of vegetation in the surrounding areas. There are no proper toilet for the women and the kids and they have to walk some distance for it,” said Saleem, who had shifted to the camp from Myanmar’s Rakhine with his family six years ago.
 
 After working initially as a daily wage labourer, he managed to save some money and opened a small grocery store near the camp. But the fire has destroyed the shop, too. “We still don’t know how the fire started, but it destroyed the toilets, our houses, a small madarsa and my shop,” Saleem said.
 
 The   has provided them with a temporary roof for five days, and NGOs and people from the nearby areas have also extended a helping hand. In the evening, the families created their separate enclosures using bedsheets donated after the incident. Food was provided by the neighbours and NGOs. But the families don’t know what will be their fate after five days. 
 
 “We want to rehabilitate them at the site of the camp. An earthmover is levelling the debris so that work can begin for reconstructing the houses,” Shakilur Rahman, secretary of All India Milli Council, said.
 
 Representatives of United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees ( ) also visited the families and assured that they would get new identification papers. A tentative list of the inhabitants is already being made with all necessary details. 
 
 The families are also worried that the kids are missing their classes. “They have lost all books and uniforms. We want to get back on track as soon as possible,” Saleem said.
 
 The police have been deployed around the site to prevent any untoward incident. 
 
 
