CHANDIGARH: Although Chandigarh boasts of 100% door-to-door garbage collection throughout the city, it is lagging behind in   (SWM).

 In a review meeting of the central government-run urban development missions, which was chaired by Union minster of housing and urban affairs  , it was revealed that only 30% of the generated waste in the city was being processed.
 
 The development has come at a time when   are already making tall claims about their efforts around solid waste management. Recently, the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) spent around Rs 2 crore to purchase dustbins and distribute them among the residents.
 
 In the meeting, it was acknowledged that the MC had failed to make any headway as the compost plant was yet to start, and garbage processing plant was unable to process 100% city garbage.
 
 Not only this, during the review meeting, it was told that under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) scheme, Chandigarh had proposed to provide 13,000 new house connections. Around 35% of the approved action plan was directed towards water supply and 64% towards sewage management.
 
 In the smart city project, the UT administration revealed that in Chandigarh, 6 projects costing Rs 56.7 crore were completed and contracts for 185 crore were under implementation/tendering.
 
 With regard to the remaining projects costing Rs 5,919 crore, reports were being prepared. It was urged that the  , which would improve the quality of life might be taken up expeditiously.
 
 Further, the Chandigarh administration had indicated a demand for about 12,900 houses under Pradhan Mantri Gramin Awaas Yojana (PMAY). Under credit linked subsidy   (Urban), 35 beneficiaries have availed an interest subsidy of Rs 68 lakh. 
 
 The UT administration was yet to submit any proposal and was required to fast-track proposal for about 12,887 houses to saturate its entire demand by 2017-18.
 
 It was said that no proposal was received under In-situ Slum Rehabilitation (ISSR) component of PMAY (Urban), despite the potential for 22,000 slum households (Census 2011). 
 
 
