CHANDIGARH: In a major setback for   chief minister Captain  , the Punjab and   high court on Wednesday set aside retired bureaucrat  's appointment as chief principal secretary to the chief minister. The court observed that it was unusual for a contractual employee to be given the severing powers of the chief minister and that ideally, these powers should go to an elected representative.

 Kumar, appointed immediately after Amarinder came to power in March last year, was one of the most powerful decision-makers in the Punjab government for the past 10 months. He was even assigned some of the powers of the chief minister and those of the principal secretary to the chief minister. He was given the powers of the chief minister when he is not in the state and that the CM could approve Kumar's decisions on his return.
 
 "The factum of giving rank and status of Cabinet Secretary to Suresh Kumar conveys that he would be higher in rank to the Chief Secretary which may create anomaly in the hierarchy of the administrative secretaries in the state," the court observed while setting aside the appointment. "Besides, it is unusual for the state to authorize a contractual employee to exercise powers, sovereign in nature, even for a limited period i.e. during absence of the Chief Minister."
 
 Justice   passed these orders while allowing the petition filed by Ramandeep Singh of  . Justice Gupta observed that although the state can choose a person it trusts and appoint him to an important post, the appointment has to be within the framework of the Constitution. Due to creation of a new post, State was left with no option but to keep an existing post in the IAS cadre in abeyance to facilitate appointment of Suresh Kumar, observed the court.
 
 The judge also observed that it is incomprehensible why the file regarding Kumar's appointment was not formally sent to the Governor. Had this been done, it would have ensured compliance of Rules 8 and 9 of 1992 Rules. In that case order would have been in the name of Governor. However, stand of the State is that order was authenticated by the Chief Secretary. In considered view of this court, mere authentication would not make the order valid, 1992 Rules being mandatory in character," the court held.Kumar was given the pay of a cabinet secretary of the Union government by Amarinder's government through an order on March 17, 2017. According to the petitioner after the March 17 orders, a subsequent order was issued in pursuance to Rule 18 and 19 of the Rules of Business of the government of Punjab 1992 on April 8, 2017 delegating and assigning Kumar some of the powers of the chief minister himself as well as all powers of the principal secretary to the chief minister.
 
 The petitioner had sought directions to set aside the March 17 and April 8, 2017 orders and all consequential orders through which Kumar was appointed.
 
 
