TRICHY: Krishna integrated children home in Thiruvellai handed over the children to the child welfare committee ( ) on Tuesday following the closure order from the   district administration recently. The home failed to register under juvenile justice (JJ) Act.

 The children were brought to the CWC functioning in the government observation home campus on east boulevard road in the city on Tuesday afternoon. The home was yet to get it registered even though it had been functioning since 2012.
 
 “It was an integrated home which did not require the registration earlier. But now according to the rules, they have to register it under JJ Act. Since they failed to do so, the home is closed now,” said the district child protection officer, (DCPO) M Geetha.
 
 A total of 13 children below 18 years of age were produced by the home today. However, the home had already brought five children to the committee a couple of days back. The committee led by its chairperson   enquired with the children and their parents whether they were aware of the closure of the home. They also checked with some of the parents if they were willing to take back their children home. However, parents of five children agreed to take them back.
 
 “Out of 20 children in total, the home produced only 18 children so far. They are yet to produce two more children. Since the houses of the five children are close to their schools, we have sent them along with their parents. We are going to find a suitable place nearer to the school to accommodate the rest of the children tomorrow,” said Indiragandhi.
 
 Sources said that the district child protection unit was reluctant to rescue the children from the home despite the closure order from the authorities concerned. The rescue of the children would be carried out by the officials of the DCPU in the case of closure of the homes usually. This time, the home was allowed to hand over the children to the CWC. “We have not rescued the children from Krishna integrated children home. They produced the children before CWC today,” said DCPO Geetha.
 
 
