AHMEDABAD: The   has capped the number of unstarred questions an   can ask when the house is not in session to three per week. The cap is reportedly the result of the secretariat finding that MLAs were dumping hundreds of questions in one go.

 This was apparently a burden on the state secretariat, which is supposed to reply to such questions within 45 days of them being admitted. The MLAs then get the replies when they are tabled in the assembly.
 
 On the last day of the assembly session, March 28, the speaker used his power under assembly rules and stated that when the house is not in session, an MLA can only ask three questions a week. Once the notification for an assembly session is issued, members cannot ask unstarred questions.
 
 Secretary of the   assembly D M Patel said, “It was noticed that one member would submit hundreds of questions in one go. To restrict this, the assembly secretariat studied existing rules in the other assemblies. It found that except for Rajasthan, Gujarat and  , unstarrred questions could only be asked when the assembly was functioning. Only in these three states could MLAs ask such questions round the year.
 
 “It was decided to restrict the number of questions to three per week, so each member has a fair chance at getting a satisfactory reply from the government. 
 
 “Even after this order, there is no bar on admitting questions. Say an MLA asks 60 questions, all will be taken on record but only three will be taken up for answers every week. In the first session of the current assembly, we attended to more than 10,700 starred questions. Not a single one was turned down.
 
 “Once an MLA moves the question, it is sent to the government for a reply. The department the question is addressed to is supposed to reply in 45 days. In exceptional cases, the time frame is increased by 15 days at the request of the department.”
 
 A senior officer in the government said, “If each MLA asks three questions a week, there will be no less than 500 question to handle a week. This is to be done with care as mistakes could lead to embarrassment in the assembly. In the current assembly, several answers had errors and these were spotted by the opposition.”
 
 
