BENGALURU: Lord   will take centre stage at the upcoming Republic Day flower show in Lalbagh, less than a month before his monolith statue in Shravanabelagola, Hassan district, will go through  , the festival of anointment that takes place once in 12 years.

 Made of synthetic fibre and plaster of Paris, the 15-foot tall Bahubali statue will be the cynosure of all eyes at the floral extravaganza, which is slated to open on Friday and culminate on January 28. Bedecked with exotic flowers, from both India and abroad, it will stand atop a 30-foot tall floral replica of Indragiri Hill, on which the monolith stands in Shravanabelagola.
 
 Nearly 1.5 lakh flowers of over 20 varieties will be used to recreate the hill and statue. The arrangement will be put up in the middle of   and will be spread over an area of 60ft X 40ft. A team of flower artistes headed by Ranjan has toiled for 15 days to construct the replica.
 
 Accomplished wood carvers have descended on the sprawling garden to participate in a wood carving workshop; they are using 150-yearold fallen Nilgiri trees and those of other varieties to showcase their prowess. “This is a huge learning experience which will draw many people. It’s not a commercial venture but simply the artistes’ contribution to Lalbagh. The carvings will be on display at the show,” said  , commissioner of the horticulture department and chairman of the Mysore Horticulture Society, which organizes the show.
 
 As many as 2,50,000 flowers are being flown in from frigid areas of Sikkim and Darjeeling, unlike earlier years when they were sourced from Ooty. Special competitions like Ikebana, vegetable carving, Dutch flower arrangement and drawing contests for kids will be organized, for which prizes will be distributed on January 24.
 
 Other attractions will include floral pyramids and an 18-foot tall replica of the logo of Mahastakabhiseka 2018, which will be exhibited next to the Glass House, comprising four leaf kalasas bearing the map of the world, Karnataka, Hassan and the face and busts of Bahubali in different colours. Scenes from his life and the peace lessons he conveyed will also be prominently displayed.
 
 A replica of the Lord’s face made of millet varieties like pearl and foxtail will also be on display. Visitors can look forward to a photo gallery, rangoli, literary platforms for plays and discourses and band performances.
 
 Like last year, citizen volunteers from   will handle the garbage mess. Various other organizations will join the clean-up drive.
 
 
