NAGPUR: A crane of Mahametro engaged in construction of Jai Prakash Nagar Station near Coca Cola Company Square on Wardha Road collapsed due to strong winds which was accompanied with thundershowers on Saturday evening. The stormy   also led to disruption in power supply in the city, plunging many areas into darkness. 

 Around 20-25 tree were uprooted across the city as per the information available with the fire control room including Manewada, Chhatrapati Nagar, Trimurti Nagar, Prajapati Nagar and New Vaishali Nagar. City police control room had no information about any casualty or untoward incidents till filing of this report. 
 
 According to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) authorities, the change in weather was triggered due to excessive heat. 
 
 A two-wheeler rider and some passersby had a miraculous escape after the crane engaged by ILFC Company at   rail site crashed on the road. A bike, a three-wheeler and couple of carts of vegetable vendors were crushed under the crane. 
 
 Mahametro’s public relations office said the process of removing the heavy crane was underway and traffic between Somalwada Square and Khamla was diverted to prevent snarls. 
 
 An eyewitness said a major accident was averted as there was sparse traffic on the road following the thundershowers and strong winds. “The crane seemed to have got detached off its base as the rain began along with the gushing winds,” he said. 
 
 Orange City Water works too released a press release stating the water supply in the city will remain affected on Sunday as strong winds and   had led to power failure, crippling the Navegaon Khairi pumping station and few other units including Godhni, Gorewada and Kanhan. 
 
 SNDL authorities informed that most of their feeders were charged and restored in little over an hour, except in few locations like Jafar Nagar, Vayusena Nagar, Godhni Road and KT Nagar-Katol Road. Till filing of the report, SNDL authorities claimed to have restored supply in 92% of the affected localities.
 
 When reports last came in, there was no power in Sneh Nagar and residents complained that MSEDCL toll free number too was not working. Some localities under MSEDCL which suffered power breakdowns in the city including Congress Nagar, Sonegaon, Shankar Nagar and some other areas.
 
 
