SHIMLA: Himachal DGP Sitaram Mardi expressed grave concern over the growing problem of drug menace in the country. He advocated farmers should be persuaded against growing narcotic plants.

 Speaking on preventive enforcement with respect to narcotics including cultivation at the 46th All   in Shimla on Friday, Mardi suggested amending the Panchayati Raj Act to make panches (village ward members) responsible for the wild growth and illicit cultivation of narcotic plants in their areas. He stressed on the need for zero tolerance irrespective of the quantity of drug involved to eradicate drug abuse from society.
 
 During his presentation,   (IPS) emphasized on the government’s seriousness to tackle the problem of drug abuse in  . He advocated demand and supply control, adequate funding and training of security operatives, blacklisting of foreigners engaged in illegal activities and effective coordination among various law enforcement agencies.
 
 During a session on information security, Goa DGP Dr Muktesh Chander said the world is moving from an era of cold war to code war, where information has become vulnerable to misuse.
 
 He said in India, cyber threat is viewed from the perspective of cybercrime only. He said that cyber threat is complex and multidisciplinary subject and cyber security should be understood as a subject of national security.
 
 In his keynote address, Dr Muktesh Chander raised concern that none of the institutions adhered to information security regulations. “We should promote culture of information security and follow international standards based on ISO/IEC 27000 certification,” he added.
 
 Another speaker   spoke about cyber espionage. He gave information about various malwares used by terrorist outfits to profile functioning of various organizations. “We should be aware of conditions and terms that we agree with while downloading an app as it may have serious implications. He further said that terror outfits by means of cyber honey trap extract critical information of defence and police organizations,” he added.
 
 Answering to the questions raised by delegates on infrastructure preparedness existing in country, Dr Muktesh Chander said the existing infrastructure to secure information is insufficient to deal with future challenges. He said most of our cyber policies are framed keeping in mind cybercrimes only. “However, we need a separate additional allocation of budget to deal with cyber threats. We should appoint an independent information officer at the state level to act as nodal and repository for cyber related operations,” he said.
 
 Another issue discussed at length was preventive enforcement with respect to narcotics including cultivation.
 
 
