The cash-for-appointments in Tamil Nadu universities is hardly a new trend. The   of Bharathiar University’s vice-chancellor A Ganapathy by state vigilance sleuths merely indicates how institutes of excellence have been practising it so blatantly that the VC himself was caught red-handed. None of the state’s 13 universities has not faced such allegations in the past.

 In February 2016, the then registrar-in-charge of the Thiruvalluvar University in Vellore allegedly issued a letter selecting a waitlisted candidate as principal of a constituent college in Thirupathur, despite the syndicate resolving otherwise. Sources in the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC), said the registrar relented only after the selected candidate was admitted to the hospital after a shock. "A forgery case was registered against the registrar on January 17," the source said. Tamil Nadu University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (TANUVAS) is also mired in a similar controversy, and the state animal husbandry department had to issue an advisory against last-minute appointments by an outgoing vice-chancellor.
 
 Observers say university corruption is a machinery greased well over the past decade. One of the first moves of a newly appointed vice-chancellor is to call for   appointments to get a return on the investment that he/she has made to get the coveted post. Candidates pay anywhere up to `30 lakh for a post. According to DVAC, Ganapathy was arrested for allegedly taking money to confirm the post of an under-probation lecturer.
 
 "A former Anna University VC, soon after his appointment, called all 500 affiliated colleges and collected `10 lakh each," says M Anandakrishnan, a former VC of the University. No surprise then, that at least two Anna University former VCs have been embroiled in corruption cases.
 
 Junior professors, who enter the system by paying hefty bribes, recover the amount from funds meant for developing infrastructure, academics or sports of their institutions. As they rise in seniority, they abuse their power as syndicate members. 
 
 The rot starts at the top when dubious candidates get into VC search committees, says Gopalji Malviya, a former professor of University of Madras. "Some people with laughable credentials have occupied the VC seat," he says.
 
 The new trend is money-bag educationists running colleges ‘sponsoring’ candidates for a quid pro quo when the latter become VCs, say observers. A top government official says the reforms have kicked in now. "There is now a law on who can be on the search panel, which now has a time frame to shortlist candidates. The panels are now headed by retired judges and eminent educationists among others". 
 
 Experts like nandakrishnan appreciate this and say the current crop of VCs appointed over the past six months is largely clean. But nothing can be done about the rotten apples that the system had inducted in the past 15 years, the official says, except "keeping a close watch on them". 
 
 
