The   was smooth but the exchanges that preceded it weren’t. BS   (BSY) and HD   (HDK) traded sharp barbs, full of personal remarks, recalling their bitter past as allies and the present as adversaries. Here are a few punches and counter-punches thrown by the two leaders.

 
 
 
 Kumaraswamy’s character is that of a chameleon and he has proved time and again that he is an 
  and a dynast who is ready to sacrifice anyone, including his close allies...like Dharam Singh(Cong)...who propelled him to the CM’s chair
 
 
 
 The last time around, I brought a 
  by joining hands with BJP. It hurt him badly and undermined his secular credentials which he holds most close to his heart. This time, my father had made a public statement that he and my family will disown me if I join BJP 
 
 
 
 When the entire galaxy of national leaders were showing their hands held high as a united front to BJP, where was Siddaramaiah? Was he not pushed to a corner and sidelined? Was it not an
 
 
 
 
 Yeddyurappa speaks of character.
  then it is a chapter for history books. He claims to have travelled the entire state with so-called rallies like Parivartana Yatra and Raitha Chaitanya… as if we sat in our houses and won the elections without moving an inch
 
 
 
 
 Perhaps, if you look at the Gowda family, it will be clear that their family god is 
  who is a symbol of greed, power and corruption
 
 
 
 
 After having been at loggerheads for the past five years, Yeddyurappa suddenly has 
 . The former Congress CM and our Siddaramanna was taken into confidence before going into coalition. He is with us
 
 
 
 
 The man (Kumaraswamy) 
  to join hands with us for the simple reason of becoming the chief minister. He is an opportunist and believes in nothing or no one but greed for power
 
 
 
 
 By invoking Duryodhana and the Mahabharata, it seems that Yeddyurappa is looking for an 
  for fear of not returning to power. His speech is perhaps a rehearsal for an
 
 
 
 
 I have tens of letters written by your father, HD Deve Gowda, interfering in the functioning of our coalition government time and again. The father and sons’ company made it difficult for the coalition to work and later pulled the rug from under our feet. It was the 
  who called me to Westend hotel and placed unreasonable conditions for the coalition to function further
 
 
 
 Yeddyurappa, along with his close confidante Shobha Karandlaje and MLC Ramachandra Gowda, said he wanted to leave BJP and had asked us for a ministerial berth. The 
 is speaking about opportunistic politics
 
 
 
 The father and sons will ensure that 
 , beware. Congress will know their 
  in the next couple of months. He came to us for coalition in 2006. He has the character of betraying people
 
 
 
 BJP and Yeddyurappa 
  for forming a coalition govt and later pulled the rug by making it difficult for the coalition to continue on conditions drawn up by BJP’s central leadership. 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Forget about me and my character,
  in their scheme of things. There are call records of people who spoke to me from Delhi and envoys who came to me from the central leadership asking for an alliance
 
 
