MUMBAI: The National Sports Club of India ( ), one of the city’s prestigious private clubs situated on a prime 18-acre sea-facing municipal plot in  , owes the   Rs 61.7 crore in property  , dues which have not been cleared for seven years, TOI has learnt.

 Moreover, allegations of mismanagement and misuse of funds have been made against the club management by some members who have said the club spent Rs 17 crore on a new bar, Indulge, within its premises. The BMC has, in addition, issued two notices for building violations and breach of lease conditions, though no action has been taken so far.
 
 NSCI president Jayantilal Shah said the   tax has been levied at a much higher rate. 
 
 
  
 
 “We have taken it up before the concerned department for consideration and the subject is sub-judice,” he wrote to TOI. The NSCI managing committee has also defended the expenditure on the bar, stating the work was given to a contractor who quoted the lowest rate.
 
 Some club members alleged there is a conspiracy of silence because many top politicians and their families, senior bureaucrats and civic officials are either members or use the club’s facilities regularly.
 
 A civic source said the outstanding property tax amount is towards use of the stadium, land, annexe building, club house, swimming pool, park and some sheds.
 
 “NSCI has been hijacked by a handful of people who are squandering the club’s money. There is no accountability or transparency,” said a member who did not wish to be identified. He said mismanagement and profligacy led to the club facing a deficit of over Rs83 crore.
 
 The BMC’s sanctioned plan shows that only the dome portion of the club has municipal occupancy. But two large areas on the plan marked as “sports hall” have been converted into banquet halls, and another area marked for storing equipment has been converted into a 200-seater theatre.
 
 The last notice listing various breaches was issued by the BMC assistant commissioner (estates) on October 17, 2017. It said that the illegal portions had still not been removed despite earlier notices and that the club’s reply was “incorrect.”
 
 Among the violations listed were structures on the ground floor touching the compound wall in the open space in front of Entrance D and T-3 Gate, a huge wall of about 20ft built in the front open space of Palace Hall/Ball Room and huge monsoon sheds near the swimming pool area.
 
 In an earlier notice, BMC said the NSCI had entered into an agreement with Cineyug Worldwide, which is “falsely titled as an ‘operation and management agreement’” to use the dome stadium for non-sporting events. “Cineyug Worldwide is not connected with sports sector nor is (it) a registered organisation. It is engaged in entertainment business. Cineyug has already organised several entertainment events which are not categorised under “sports activities,” said the notice. It further said this was a violation of the lease agreement with the BMC which prohibits NSCI from assigning or transferring the premises or any part of it without prior consent of the municipal commissioner.
 
 Chandrashekar Chore, deputy municipal commissioner (improvements), said BMC has had several rounds of meetings with the club and asked it to get the breaches removed or regularised. “We will submit a report to municipal commissioner on this issue to decide this case. Any illegal works or unauthorised constructions will be separately dealt with by the building proposals department and local ward authorities,” he told TOI.
 
 Last week, a member, Suketu Mody, wrote a complaint to BMC against the club. “I regret and would like to place on record that in spite of repeated reminders and my personal visit to various civic departments, no action has been taken, which indicates that BMC officers are hand-in-glove with the club management... Even after the BMC issued show-cause notices for violation of lease agreement, your officers have failed to take any action,” said Mody, adding he would file a writ petition in the high court.
 
 The NSCI was set up in Delhi under the patronage of Pandit Nehru, Dr Rajendra Prasad and Sardar Patel, among others. The second club was set up in Mumbai at its present location in 1950, and the foundation stone of the complex was laid by Y B Chavan in May 1957.
 
