KOCHI: On his 110th birth anniversary, legendary Malayalam writer  's name is almost forgotten in his hometown, Thalayolaparambu in Kottayam district.

 His legacy, as much as his characters – most of them real people he met and grew up with – is slowly dying, says Prof A Kusuman, secretary of  , an organization for Basheer enthusiasts in his hometown.
 
 Since 2008, Basheer Smaraka Trust has constituted an award, named after the writer, to the best work of fiction in Malayalam. Apart from this annual award, not much has been done here or anywhere in Kerala to preserve the legacy of Muhammad Basheer, feels A Kusuman
 
 It is at this point The Basheer Smaraka Trust have decided to undertake an ambitious plan to digitally document Basheer’s life in Thalayolaparambu.
 
 The Trust with the help of visual story tellers will create a documentary to map Basheer’s surviving characters, landscapes of his hometown featured in his works and the activist that he was.
 
 “We have found at least 15 living characters from Basheer’s works in and around Thalayolaparambu. We hope to document all of them”; says Prof. A. Kusuman.
 
 The project, which will begin this April, is claimed to be a seminal work on Basheer’s literary world. The headway of the project however is in limbo due to the paucity of funds and The Basheer Trust is asking a financial support from Kerala government.
 
 Documenting Basheer’s life involves many challenges. First and foremost, there remain not many people from the old generation who could recount the writer. Many of his characters have either died or were too young when they were appeared in his novels.
 
 Probably the oldest person in Basheer’s family who remembers the writer is his 95-year-old cousin Pathumma.
 
 She is living with her son Mohammed in a small corner of a land where she claims once Basheer’s house stood. She doesn’t remember much about the old days.
 
 “I was a very small baby. When Basheer was a child, his family moved from here to the Town”
 
 Basheer was born in an islet in  . Incidentally, Basheer’s birthplace is the real inspiration of his most famous saying from the novel Balayakalasakahi (Childhood companion), claims Prof. A. Kusuman.
 
 “The saying – One plus one must be a slightly bigger one – by a Basheer character was no accidental. For Basheer had seen from his birthplace, two rivers merge into a ‘slightly bigger one’. This might have inspired him to conceive the sentence. This has been even interpreted as Sanskrit saying Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (The world is one family)”.
 
 Another interesting fact about Basheer is the ongoing dispute over his birth date. He was born in 1908. There were no records available to verify his birthday. It is being said that Basheer consulted an astrologer to calculate his birth date as January 19, allegedly for his publisher. It has been used widely until writer and teacher M. N. Karassery determined the correct date, January 21.
 
 Karassery says he resorted to Basheer literature as well as the recorded statements of the writer to come at the conclusion. But he was unable to communicate it to Basheer as discovery came after Basheer’s death in 1994.
 
 This year’s Basheer Smaraka Award will be given to poet Sebastian on January 21 at Basheer’s hometown. This is the tenth edition of the awards.
 
 (Content courtesy: Malayalam
 Samayam)
 
