MUMBAI: In a victory for Mumbai  , the Bombay high court has held six occupants of residential and commercial premises for over 50 years on its land to be “trespassers” and directed them to vacate within three months. The HC said the “eviction is in larger public interest.” It is meant for ensuring “clearing of road for undertaking an important project of a Domestic Cruise Terminal and Establishment of a Marina,” said a bench of Justice R M Borde and R G Ketkar.

 The port’s board of trustees said clearing of the road will smoothen traffic movement on the Eastern Freeway, which is otherwise causing bottlenecks for entry into and exit from the freeway. The project involves capital expenditure of several hundred crores of rupees. “The petitioners are trespassers so far as Port Trust is concerned, occupying the land, which is needed for infrastructural development of the port,” said the HC.
 
 S  , a 74-year-old carrying out a business Shri Ganesh Tyres at Reay Road at the junction of D’lima Street, Mazgaon, uses part of the port trust premises as residential and part commercial and has been an occupant since before 1963, said his lawyers   and Abhinav Chandrachud, arguing that the port trust cannot evict them with a 12-hour notice issued last November. The lawyers argued that since he has been in settled possession of the premises for decades and the occupants had been paying municipal taxes and had all necessary licences in place from all authorities, they cannot be termed ‘trespassers” but have a “statutory legal right to remain in occupation of property.” The lawyers added port trust laws cannot be applied to evict the occupants and said a 12-hour notice was contrary to principles of natural justice. They said provisions of the Public Premises Act would apply to protect them. They pleaded for alternate space to be allotted as project- affected people at least.
 
 But the court did not agree. The port trust has been a client of Parmanandan and has been buying tyres from him, his lawyers said. Ajay Khaire, counsel for port trust argued eviction was justified and said payment of municipal taxes doesn’t give tenancy rights.   counsel   said the port trust has the authority to decide the fate of the occupants as it was the landlord. “The proposed eviction is not forceful dispossession, but a lawful eviction,” said the HC. But holding a 12-hour notice as very short, HC set a 3-month deadline for them to vacate.
 
