CHANDIGARH: Responding to a petition seeking directions to exclude affluent farmers from the benefit of income tax exemption, the Union government has clarified that tax on agricultural income falls under purview of the state governments and only they were competent to enact any law imposing tax on the agriculture income.

 In its detailed reply, filed by the Centre through  , deputy commissioner of income tax, it has been stated that item “Taxes on agricultural income” falls under entry 46 in the “State List” under the Constitution, and hence only the state governments were competent to enact legislations imposing a tax on agricultural income. Therefore, taxation of agricultural income, if any, has to be considered by the state governments only.
 
 The affidavit further stated that as regards the recommendations of  , in its third report, the tax on agricultural income can be imposed by the central government only if the states pass a resolution under Article 252 of the Constitution, authorizing the Centre to impose such tax on the agricultural income. It is further stated that as per scheme of direct taxes at present, income of agriculture is utilized for rate of tax purpose only in cases where the income from other sources exceeds the income not chargeable to tax, and net agricultural income exceeds five thousand rupees.
 
 These submissions by the Centre were submitted before a division bench headed by Justice A K   during the hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate H C Arora.
 
 According to the petitioner, the provision contained in Section 10 (1) of the Income Tax Act, 1961, providing total exemption of agricultural income from income tax is highly arbitrary, as even the rich and affluent farmers have been given benefit of this provision. He alleged that big industrialists, transporters, liquor barons are taking benefit of this provision and causing huge loss of revenue by diverting income from other business to show it as agricultural income for avoiding tax liability. He further contended that exemption under Section 10
 
 (1) is against basic principles of our Constitution which envisages India to be “a socialist republic,” when very rich and affluent farmers are being given benefit of this provision by exempting their agricultural income also from tax.
 
 The petitioner referred to affidavits filed by various political leaders of   before the returning officers early this year, while submitting nomination papers for assembly elections, to show that rich political leaders, running other business empires are also availing benefit of such exemption from paying tax on their agricultural income. He specifically referred to instances of senior leaders of the region, including Prakash Singh Badal, Sukhbir Singh Badal, Manpreet Singh Badal, Rana Gurjit Singh, Kuljit Singh Nagra, and   and others to substantiate his contentions.
 
