Nagpur: As summer intensifies in Vidarbha, at  , a town of 35,000 in Washim district, even the source to be tapped on emergency basis has dried up. It is one of the most affected pockets in the region. TOI had visited the area, over 250 kms form city, on April 4.

 The residents are now getting murky water drawn from dead storage of the Motsawanga dam that caters to the town. The residents are buying drinking water from tanker operators instead and supply from the dam is only used for sanitation, they said.
 
 Dead storage is the rock bottom of a dam and water has to be drawn through pumps. Such water is generally contaminated due to soil mixed with it at lower level. Residents are complaining of getting turbid water. But that is the only supply they get once in 15 days. The local body is also tapping some wells in the area but it is not enough.
 
 “What we get once in 15 days is blackish water. It is of no use. We don’t even attempt to clean it,” said Mehtab Khan, a local resident. “It is worse than drainage water. We dare not drink it and are preferring to buy water from the tanker operators. Each family spends around Rs150 a day on water,” said Javed Ahmed, another resident.
 
 Considering the fast depleting level in Motsawanga, it was planned to divert water from Sonal, another dam 10 kms from Mangrulpir. Now even Sonal dam has dried up. The latest data by Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC), shows nil balance there. 
 
 TOI had reported a dispute over water sharing between Mangrulpir and Selubazaar village. Sonal dam originally catered to irrigation needs of Selubazaar and nearby villages. The residents opposed diversion of water to Mangrulpir saying it will deplete groundwater level as well. The villages depend on groundwater for drinking.
 
 Lately, there was a proposal by district administration to put on hold diversion from Sonal amid opposition by locals. However, with Sonal having dried up, diversion is out of question.
 
 With Sonal and Motsawanga both empty, the warring sides have been left with little source of water. Sachin Kulkarni, the activist who led the agitation from Selubazaar’s side, said situation had worsened. The locals are depending on tankers for water and are at a risk of infection. 
 
 “There is no choice but to depend on dirty water. Certain wells in the town are being tapped but that is not enough. We have requested the district collector to allot tankers for the city. He said a decision will be taken in 2-3 days,” said the Gazala Khan, chairperson of Mangrulpir municipal council. She said it was an unprecedented crisis and there was no shortage during previous summer.
 
 
