Kolkata: A day after the Special Task Force of Kolkata police busted a 10-year-old racket in smuggling sophisticated weapons parts out of the Rifle Factory in   with the arrest of six persons — including two officers and two contract labourers working at the high-security defence establishment — it claimed that there were other staffers and scrap item contractors from RFI who might be involved with the gang.

 The STF also said what was being suspected since 2017 by auditors of RFI themselves: there was no inventory or record of scrapped items that were maintained by the RFI authorities, allowing such gangs to proliferate. This, despite the fact that that two other persons were arrested on similar charges by the STF last year. 
 
 “Today, our team visited the Rifle Factory with the accused, Umesh Rai alias Bhola. He showed us exactly the place from where he scaled the fence, in the presence of IRF officials. He also showed us the place from where he stole “the scrapped items’, which were later assembled to make a complete weapon. During a reconstruction of the events, the accused showed us the window, whose grille was found to have been broken. Similar revolvers (which are not scrap but stolen in its final finished form by the accused), like one we recovered earlier, were lying there,” claimed a senior STF official, adding that they have seized two revolvers for comparison.
 
 Police sources said that the entire search was videographed and will be forwarded to court during the production of the accused.
 
 Police sources said that there were at least three more staffers — mostly promotees — and scrap item contractors whose names have cropped up during the interrogation of the six people. “We may call them for cross-verification. If their role is substantiated, we may go for more arrests,” a senior IPS officer confirmed at Lalbazar.
 
 DC (STF) Murlidhar Sharma said that further probe was required on the exact roles of Bihar-based arms dealer Ajay Pandit. STF officials said they were in touch with their Bihar counterparts and it is likely that a team may come to Kolkata to question the accused. “During interrogation, it has also been found that Ajay Pandit alias Guddu has more associates in Bihar,” said an officer.
 
 Sources said they are ascertaining if arms dealers Sanjeev Sah and Saroj Yadav, who were nabbed in December last year, were involved. 
 
 
