CHENNAI: Airports Authority of India ( ) is likely to start building a   terminal near the second runway with a tunnel to the main buildings after completing work on a new integrated terminal at Chennai airport, in about three years. Work on planning and designing is on and the rest of the formalities are expected to be completed in the next two years. 

 The project which was kept on the back burner will now be included in the phase two expansion of the airport. It will cost Rs 500crore according to a rough estimate. An AAI official said, “First we will complete building an integrated terminal after pulling down old domestic terminal and then will start work on the satellite building. It will be needed because second airport will take time to materialise. This is the next level of development we are looking at for the airport to handle passenger growth.”
 
 Officials have been planning to have a terminal near the space between the second and the main runway o the last few years. The project received nod from the environment ministry in 2016 after which AAI took up a feasibility study. As part of the study, AAI approached the Chennai metro rail and asked it to look into the projects feasibility.   approved it.
 
 “This is at a preliminary stage but we have decided to include it in the phase 2 expansion of the airport. It will require a detailed study as we need to find out what is underneath before starting the work on the tunnel. Once started, it has to be completed at one go because it runs under a runway and taxiway which cannot be blocked,” he added. The tunnel will also start from the integrated terminal so that passengers can be ferried to the satellite terminal. 
 
 Phase 2 expansion included an integrated terminal, straightening of a taxiway and building more rapid exit taxiways and was pegged at Rs 2,587crore. AAI has now decided to include it in the same phase and not in the subsequent development programme in the future because second airport is getting delayed. “It may not be wise to wait any further because it may be too late to start the paperwork and preliminary ground work if we wait for a final decision on the second airport,” said an official.
 
 
