Jaipur: Spread over an area of 4,051 sq metres, Central Research Institute of Homeopathy (CRIH) will come up at Pratap Nagar soon. It will be a major boost to homeopathy as it will offer facilities of out-patient department (OPD), research OPD, admissions of patients and pathological investigations.

 Union minister of state for AYUSH Shripad Yesso Naik laid the foundation stone for CRIH in the city on Monday. 
 
 It will be the third CRI under the aegis of Central Council for Research in Homoeopathy (CCRH), an autonomous body of Ministry of AYUSH for undertaking scientific research in homoeopathy, with 23 institutes across the country. 
 
 At present, Jaipur has Regional Research Institute of Homeopathy (RRIH) near Sindhi Camp bus stand. 
 
 As it gets upgraded to CRIH, it will get more facilities, building, funds and equipment for research in homeopathy. 
 
 The ongoing research projects at the institute including work on acute otitis media, psoriasis and vitiligo will get a major push after RRIH upgrades to CRIH. 
 
 The RRIH is contributing to the Swasthya Raksha Programme at five adopted villages including Chharsa, Kumbhawas, Sakatpura, Khoraladkhani, Hanutpura.
 
 Under National Health Mission, 19 villages under Amber block are covered under the programme, “Healthy teething in children through homoeopathy”.
 
 On the occasion, Naik said that his ministry was determined towards a focused infrastructural push to homoeopathy and other systems of AYUSH.
 
 Recent establishments of CCRH, including Homoeopathy Hospital at Agartala and a sophisticated virology laboratory at Regional Research Institute (Homeopathy), Kolkata, aimed at high quality research, inaugurated by the minister of AYUSH are among the efforts channelized in this direction. 
 
 He further said that strengthening of infrastructure of research institutes meant more quality research, and therefore, more evidence-based information on homoeopathy.
 
 He said homoeopathy research institutes at Shimla in Himachal Pradesh, Lucknow in UP and Siligudi in West Bengal are in the pipeline.
 
 
