CHANDIGARH: The state transport authority on Friday impounded two maxicabs and issued challans to seven for ferrying students of  , Sector 14, as part of an inspection drive being conducted by the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights ( ) in association with the traffic police in various city schools. 

 The confiscated maxicabs did not have the permit to carry students. The inspection team also challaned a school bus for having a temporary number and a force traveller driver for not wearing uniform.
 
 The team found that the school had been plying mini vans without an attendant, which is mandatory as per the norms of Safe Transportation Policy for Students (STRAPS) policy notified by the  . The school was advised to get the mini cabs registered with the UT transport authority.
 
 The team had visited Ankur School, Sector 14, to examine the infrastructure in view of safety and security of the children.
 
 Following the visit, the team said unauthorized autorickshaw pullers should be banned as they carry students in excessive numbers, putting their safety in question. The state transport authority and traffic police have been told to start a drive against overloaded autorickshaws plying in Chandigarh and take action against them.
 
 CCPCR chairperson Harjinder Kaur said that various observations were shared with the principal of the school in the best interest of the children. "The panel has also taken up the matter with SSP (Traffic)   and state transport authority, with the recommendation to start a drive against overloaded autorickshaws in the city and take appropriate action against the defaulters," said Kaur.
 
 Principal Parminder Duggal informed the inspecting team that the school has been sending regular circulars to the parents to opt for the safest mode of transportation, but they still choose maxicabs and autorikshaws. "I myself stand at the gate to ensure every child has safely boarded the auto. We send the children going by auto in an organized manner. We have allowed maxicabs to pick up the kids from within the school as this mode is much safer than autorikshaws."
 
 
