VISAKHAPATNAM: In a smart and eco-friendly move, the Greater   Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has been laying   made from   waste in various parts of the city, thereby putting the non-biodegradable plastic waste to good use. By December 2017, they completed 16 such road stretches. These roads are not just cost-effective but lasts longer than the usual asphalt roads.

 Taking a step further towards becoming a smart city, GVMC had mooted this project in 2016 when they had laid 10 roads across all its zones including  . In 2017, till December, 16 more roads were completed. The length of various stretches ranged from a few metres to three kilometres. The aim is to construct more and more roads from plastic waste wherever re-laying of roads is required and plastic waste is available.
 
 Dr A Hemanth, chief medical officer of GVMC said, “Under solid waste management rules (2016), we are re-processing plastic waste and also using the non-biodegradable waste for road relaying whereever road repair is needed. Around 5-6% of the total dry waste generated in city consists of plastic waste and procurement of plastic is part of the practice of collecting segregated household waste from door-to-door. Depending on the availability of plastic, we will lay more roads with plastic waste across all the GVMC zones. After laying such roads, we are putting up a signboard to increase public awareness indicating that the road has been laid using plastic waste and  . We have spent around Rs 2.5 crore in laying those 16 roads from plastic waste in 2017.”
 
 The roads from plastic waste consists of 8% plastic and 92 % bitumen or asphalt. There is a dual advantage of such roads. Besides utilising plastic waste effectively, “The cost of laying such roads is less than the usual asphalt roads and more important, the quality and longevity of such roads is higher than the usual bitumen roads. If asphalt roads have to be repaired every two-three years, these roads using plastic waste can be repaired every three-four years, thereby reducing the recurrence of investment. Such roads can withstand heavy rains and do not easily get washed away, thereby preventing damages to roads,” said Dr Hemanth.
 
 
