KOCHI: The Central police on Monday registered a case against   head cardinal   and three others in connection with the alleged irregularities in the land deals involving the   archdiocese. 

 The three others booked are, priests Joshy Puthuva and   and middleman Saju Varghese. The cardinal has been named the first accused.
 
 Police registered the case under Sections 120B (punishment for criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 415 (cheating) of the IPC after securing legal advice from advocate general C P Sudakaraprasad. A single bench of the high court had earlier ordered police to register an FIR, based on a petition filed by Shine Varghese of Cherthala who accused the central police of not registering the FIR despite lodging a complaint.
 
 Meanwhile the cardinal, on Monday, filed an appeal before the high court challenging the single bench order. The appeal, which alleges that the single bench's judgment of March 6 was unsustainable in law, has been listed for admission hearing before a division bench comprising Chief Justice   and Justice   on Tuesday morning. A stay on the single bench's order has been sought as an interim relief by the appellant.
 
 Central police CI Ananthalal said the police would initiate any action in the case only based on the result of the appeal. The controversy revolves around the sale of five properties under the archdiocese at Kalamassery and Kundannoor. It was alleged that in one instance three acres of land worth 27 crore was sold for 13.5 crore. Varghese, in his complaint to the police, had said a priest involved in the deal had told the probe committee instituted by the Church that 26 crore was received from the land deal but only 8 crore was credited to the Church account. 
 
 In his appeal the cardinal said that the complaint before police was filed by somebody who has no direct knowledge about the transactions and that his statement is in the nature of hearsay.
 
 "The property of the archdiocese was sold following the procedure prescribed under the canon law and in conformity with the laws of the land... All the allegations against the appellant... are baseless. In the sale transactions, the archdiocese had suffered some temporary setback, on account of the failure of some of the purchasers to pay the agreed sale consideration fully. Appropriate action is being taken for the recovery of the balance amounts...," the appeal filed through advocate John Varrghese said.
 
 The single bench order was despite the public prosecutor informing the court that no FIR has been registered as the matter is civil in nature, the appeal said. 
 
 
