THIRUVNANTHPURAM: Rural police here have launched a manhunt for a man after a 28-year-old woman alleged that she was raped at gunpoint by him. The police identified the accused as Shaji alias Pothu Shaji aged around 40 years. The complainant in the case is the live-in partner of a close friend of the accused. The incident happened at Tholikode under Vithura police station limits outside the city. Shaji is a notorious criminal who had been detained under provisions of Kerala Antisocial Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA) multiple times in the past, police said.

 
 Nedumangad DSP B Anilkumar said that the alleged rape took place on Sunday evening in the complainant’s house when her partner was not at home. Only her children aged four and two were at home. The accused reached the house with a locally-made airgun and raped her at gunpoint.
 
 “The woman kept mum about the incident, but, on Tuesday afternoon the accused reached her house again,” the DSP said.
 
 This time, her partner too was at home. The accused sent him away to refill diesel in his car. This was an apparent bid to create an opportunity to rape her again. Since he did not have a gun this time, the woman resisted. In the melee, Shaji slapped her.
 
 The accused fled the house after the woman cried for help, said the officer.
 
 The woman filed a complaint with the Vithura police by evening.
 
 “After receiving the complaint, we conducted a search and recovered the gun from the residence of a woman who is close to the accused,” Anilkumar said.
 
 The complainant is a widow and she started living with the current partner around a year ago.
 
 Shaji, hailing from Thevanpara near Tholikode, was in the news last when he was seriously injured after being stabbed by an automobile mechanic following a dispute.
 
 He is an accused in multiple crime cases, including attempt to murder, robbery, marriage fraud, theft and chainsnatching. His wife, whom he married from a different community following a love affair, had allegedly committed suicide, some time ago.
 
 He is also known to have attacked a civil police officer with a machete during an arrest attempt at Irinjayam near Nedumangad in November, 2013.
 
 
