Tirupur: AIC-NIFT TEA Incubation Centre for Textiles and Apparels is inviting textile colleges to submit ideas and concepts, which suits areas mentioned in Atal New India Challenge. The winners could get an incubation grant up to Rs 1 crore to develop their products and commercialise them. The applications should be submitted before Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) and the last date to apply is June 10. NITI Aayog, the Central government organisation, had recently announced that the people from MSMEs, start ups, research and development sectors and academicians could submit ideas and concepts in 17 areas including waste management recycling and reuse. Five Union ministries including agriculture, railways, road transport, drinking water and sanitation, and housing and urban affairs are on board for the contest. “Anyone, who has market-ready products, which could have positive impact on environment, economy and society could present their ideas. The objectives of the contest are to generate employment and contribute to economic growth,” said chief executive officer of AIC-NIFTTEA centre R Periyasamy. “The innovative concepts in production management, smart factory, waste management and packaging management could suit the bill in the textile and apparel industry. Being the incubation centre for textiles and apparels, we have planned to invite potential incubatees from the textile and fashion institutions to present their innovative ideas for the contest,” he said. The selected incubatees will be sent to respective incubation centres. AIC-NIFTTEA centre will train the incubatees, who have proved their mettle, in apparel sector. “Despite the development achieved so far in Tirupur knitwear cluster, the concept of product development did not evolve properly on par with the international scientific standards. Contests like this could help to improve in the required areas with the help of innovative ideas generated within and outside of the industry. The incubatees selected will get the infrastructure, technical support from experts and grant to develop their products,” he added.