RAIPUR: "I feel Jitesh (Sharma) has an ex-factor. He is a match-winner. He is somebody who can hit quality fast bowlers as well as spinners," former Rajasthan skipper and Chhattisgarh bowling coach   had told 
 last week before the start of Central Zone   Twenty20 tournament.

 Chhattisgarh were about to face   in their opening game and Krishnakumar knew Jitesh could be a dangerman. Jitesh, indeed, turned out to be the difference between the two sides as he smashed 91 off just 53 balls to give Vidarbha a 48-run victory, a massive margin in Twenty20. It also helped Vidarbha in the net run rate and thanks to that victory, Vidarbha still have a chance to qualify for the Super League stage.
 
 On Monday, Jitesh was dropped as Vidarbha went ahead with wicketkeeper Akshay Wadkar. Wadkar, on his Twenty20 debut couldn't get off the mark in seven deliveries he faced and eventually got out while trying to hit UP seamer  . It was an unfamiliar territory for Wadkar. Although a fighter, Wadkar is no match to Jitesh's stroke making abilities.
 
 Even some of the UP players enquired after the match if Jitesh was injured. After all, it was against Uttar Pradesh, Jitesh had marked his arrival with a brilliant 107 in 2014. Since then, he has been an integral part of Vidarbha in shorter formats. He was a revelation in 2015-16 when Vidarbha topped the pool in both One-dayers and Twenty20.
 
 Jitesh scored 343 runs at an average of 38.11 with a strike rate of 143.51. He became the first Vidarbha player to score hundred in Twenty20 when he made 106 against Himachal at Nagpur. In Vijay Hazare Trophy, Jitesh scored 246 runs at an average of 61.50 in testing conditions at Delhi. He was the second highest run-getter for Vidarbha after Ganesh Satish.
 
 Last year, Jitesh was the top scorer for Vidarbha with 298 runs at an average of 42.57 in One-days. He was the second highest run-getter and the only one from Vidarbha to cross the 100-run mark last year. He was the only player from Vidarbha apart from   to be part of IPL.
 
 Jitesh started this tournament with a bang but then he couldn't do much in the next three matches. However, he got run out in the last two matches against Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. This was the third time in the season Vidarbha dropped this talented stroke player. He was ousted from the Ranji Trophy squad after failing in the first two innings against Punjab and Chhattisgarh.
 
 So far, Vidarbha team management has taken some bold decisions and they have paid off. However, this one looks far from logical as Jitesh is the only one apart from   and   who could hit quality bowlers right from the word go. While Vidarbha have backed Wankhade and Karnewar, Jitesh doesn't seem to enjoying team management's confidence.
 
