BENGALURU: The   ( ) has filed a case against fugitive tycoon   and 18 others, including   founder Capt GR Gopinath, levelling a host of charges ranging from window dressing of published financial statements to noncompliance with mandatory accounting standards in the   loan default case totalling Rs 6,400 crore.

 The Bengaluru city civil and sessions court has issued summons even as the hearing on India’s request to extradite   is set to resume in the UK later this week.
 
 The white-collar crime probe agency’s list of accused includes former officials of audit and merchant banking firms  , Grant Thornton, SBI Caps and Ambit. The UB officials named in the SFIO list are former group CFO Ravi Nedungadi, Kingfisher finance director A Raghunathan and former UB Holdings MD Harish Bhat.
 
  
 The Registrar of Companies has submitted a report to the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) and pointed out key irregularities, including impropriety on part of promoter directors for claiming and booking guarantee commission without the concurrence of secured lenders and misstatements in published account.
 
 
 
 
 Taking cognizance of serious wrongdoings on the part of Kingfisher Airlines, the ministry of corporate affairs (MCA) asked for an investigation. The central government, while exercising power under the Companies Act of 2013, had issued instructions and sanction to file and initiate prosecution against the accused persons for violations and offences under various provisions.
 
 The Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) has alleged that SBI Caps ignored the business plans and financial projection by aviation experts Seabury and did not hold due diligence on the valuation of brand Kingfisher Airlines, which was valued at Rs 4,111 crore and formed more than 60% of securities that was offered to lenders.
 
 SBI Caps was mandated to prepare information memorandum for seeking the mandate for a fresh bailout for Kingfisher Airlines.
 
 The merchant banking arm of SBI prepared a package of additional assistance of Rs 1,190 crore, excluding the conversion of part of debt into equity. The SFIO alleged that Mallya influenced the bankers to bail out Kingfisher Airlines.
 
 The filing said Mallya tricked the bankers by stating that the very mention of corporate debt restructuring (CDR) in the bailout package would trigger default clauses under the aircraft lease agreement. The intent was to avoid monitoring by bankers under a CDR package.
 
 The SFIO’s list of allegations also includes ambitious profitability projections prepared keeping the expenses like lease rentals, fuel charges, distribution and salaries lower compared to revenue and past trends and lack of proper examination of the flight lease agreements and amendments to ensure lease rentals in the future would be lower.
 
