MUMBAI: Batting legend Sachin Tendulkar’s son Arjun has opted out of the forthcoming   as the budding left-arm seamer is working on his remodelled action and doesn’t feel he’s tournament-ready yet. It’s a decision that the 18-year-old has taken after consulting his illustrious father, who, it’s learnt, was on the same page on the issue. Incidentally, Tendulkar is a brand ambassador of the league, which will be held from March 11 to 21.

 
 
 
 
 Arjun’s participation would’ve grabbed a lot of eyeballs, and his withdrawal is another blow for the organisers, as the tournament is scheduled at a time when most of Mumbai’s top players would either be busy with India duty in Sri Lanka (for the tri-series) or the Irani Cup in Nagpur.
 
 “His body has grown very quickly in the last couple of years - you can see the difference in his growth almost every couple of months, and perhaps as a result of that, has suffered two back-to-back stress fractures, which saw him ruled out for almost a year. He’s gone through a lot. Every ball of his is monitored by his coach  , a Pune based-coach-cum-bio-mechanist, who has been working closely on his bowling action,” a source close to Tendulkar told TOI on Wednesday. Unlike his diminutive father, Arjun is around six feet, two inches tall.
 
 
 
 The source then elaborated on the reason for Arjun giving the league a miss. “From January 8, Arjun has been working on his bowling action. This is the time to do it since the season has just finished. Right now, he’s at a stage where he’s looking to remodel his action. He was slightly confused that would he have bowled with a new action or stick to the old one, if he had played, and consulted his father about it. He felt that it would be too soon to bowl with a remodelled action, because he hadn’t even started bowling properly (with the new action),” said the source, before explaining how the 200-Test veteran then supported his son’s decision to miss the league.
 
 “Tendulkar advised that if he wasn’t ready to compete, then he shouldn’t play in the league. The batting great felt that the tournament was a stage for him to perform, and not rectify his action. For him, it was important that Arjun takes one step at a time, and plays only when he’s confident about his new action. Arjun is after all, just 18, and has a long way to go. He then informed the MCA officials today about it,” he explained.
 
 “It was a big decision, since he had a good season (he picked up two five-wicket hauls and a four-for in the Under-19  ). Tendulkar himself is satisfied with his progress,” concluded the source.
 
