Ludhiana: The second list announced by Shiromani Akali Dal has left the former mayor Harcharan Singh   in a tight position as his name was not announced even in this list. Though declaration of candidate from ward number 42 is still pending, but sources said former mayor is not interested from contesting from this ward.

 However, there are speculations among party leaders that swapping of ward number 41 and 42 is also possible.
 
 The sources said the former mayor had sought two tickets –– one from ward number 41 which is his previous ward and second from ward number 44 which is a new ward. The ward number 41 is reserved for female candidates, therefore he recommended the name of his wife Pushpinder Kaur for the ward as she has remained a councillor twice and he showed interest for himself from ward number 44.
 
 Sources also revealed that senior leaders of the party had asked him to recommend somebody else’s name from ward number 41 in case he wants a ticket from ward number 44 because each family will get only one ticket.
 
 The former mayor had recommended the name of   from ward number 41. Meanwhile, the name of   was announced for ward number 44 under the pressure of senior Akali leader.
 
 The sources also revealed that former mayor can also contest as an independent candidate.
 
 Gohalwaria said even he was unable to understand what was going on in the party. Since it is politics, anything can happen in one second, he added.
 
 He said it was the wish of his supporters and area residents that he should definitely contest the elections and he will have to contest in any form. “I am in touch with the senior Akali leadership and hopefully things will become clear in a day or so,” he added.
 
 District president SAD (urban) Ranjit Dhillon said they are yet to announce a candidate on one seat and it could be former mayor’s name. Some other adjustment can be also be made by the party high command, he added.
 
 ‘My ward declared reserved for 3rd time’
 
 Former mayor H S Gohalwaria alleged that his ward was declared reserved for female candidates for third time whereas norms of ward delimitation say that one ward can be declared reserved for female candidates only once. He said everything was done intentionally by the ruling party just to satisfy their selfish means. Not only this, previous ward numbers 68, 69 and 70 have been clubbed into two wards just to control the number of wards in Atam Nagar and South constituencies. 
 
 
