CHANDIGARH: Remember how we used to panic if we lost our university mark sheets and certificates? One needs to apply to the university or exam board to get a duplicate certificate. It is a tedious process. But the postgraduate students of   ( ) have reasons to cheer.

 For the first time, PU’s postgraduate students will receive digital degrees instead of traditional certificates (read hard copies). Around 50,000 students, who are enrolled in various postgraduate courses, will receive   from the university.
 
 Dr Parvinder  , controller of the examination PU, said in the first phase, the postgraduate students will receive digital degree under National Academic Depository (NAD) scheme, which is an online store house of academic documents. 
 
 Later, the university will introduce the same for the undergraduate courses also, said Singh.
 
 The student is authorised to access his digital academic awards, ranging from the candidate’s degree, diploma, certificate and mark sheet through NAD. 
 
 A digital locker or e-locker facility will be created for students and they can access his/her academic   online 24*7.
 
 At present, a student receives his degree after eight months. After NAD is set up, as and when the results are declared, a student can get access to his/her degree online through e-locker. 
 
 Those students, who apply for jobs after the completion of postgraduation courses, can also heave a sigh of relief. All a student needs to do is to provide his/her digital registration number and the company hiring the talent can get the candidate’s academic records verified online. 
 
 At present, a student has to pay a nominal fee to procure the migration certificate, and get it issued within 24 hours. However, after NAD, the student will not have to apply for the document as it can be accessed online.
 
 On November 23, 2016, a communication was sent by the   ( ) to PU that under the digital Indian vision of the Prime Minister, the Central government has decided to establish digital depository of academic awards known as NAD, after which the process was started by the PU authorities.
 
 
