CHENNAI: In a barrage of questions that should come as music to the ears of stressed out   in   where a constable and a sub-inspector committed suicide this week, the   on Thursday asked the government: “Do you know what will be the fate of Tamil Nadu if all policemen go on strike for just an hour?

 Slogging for 24 hours, 365 days a year,   personnel need adequate rest. “It is due to work pressure and depression that they either quit the force or commit suicide,” said  .
 
 When advocate Purushothaman moved a petition to hear the pathetic service conditions of police personnel in the state, Justice Kirubakaran lambasted the state government and top brass of police. 
 
 Obliquely referring to the fact that a large number of police personnel are posted at late chief minister Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden residence, where no one lives now, and her memorial on the Marina Beach, the judge asked: “Policemen are unnecessarily made to guard empty bungalows, samadhis and memorials. When ministers and top officers move around in their cars, these personnel are made to stand on roads for hours together.”
 
 Underlining the need to make efforts to understand the service conditions and stress levels of police personnel, the judge said policemen were unable to attend even family functions and festivals. 
 
 He referred to media reports on more than 19,000 posts lying vacant in the police department and sought to ascertain from the government whether it was correct.
 
 Justice Kirubakaran referred to a 2012 order of the court directing the government to form a police commission. The judge asked as to why it had not been formed despite lapse of six years. He gave the government time till March 19 to inform the court about the status of the commission. Delay in forming a commission too had been taking a toll on police personnel, he said.
 
 Justice Kirubakaran’s anger is bound to strike a chord among the police force in Tamil Nadu, which is yet to come out of the shock caused by the suicide of sub-inspector of police R Sathish Kumar at Ayanavaram police station on Wednesday. The 33-year-old officer shot himself in the head, using his service revolver, on the station premises. On Sunday, armed reserve constable Arunraj, 26, shot himself dead using his service weapon at Jayalalithaa memorial.
 
