BHILAI/RAIPUR:   president  's 50-km-long mega roadshow saw an impressive turnout at   twin city on Friday. Party workers in thousands poured out to greet Gandhi - who was on his first visit to   after becoming the Congress party president. 

  RaGa meets booth level workers: Gandhi had met booth level workers at   district before proceeding for the mega roadshow to Raipur in an open bus. 
 
  Addressing a gathering of booth workers and committee members at Pandit Ravishankar Shukla Stadium at Durg, Gandhi said, "Booth level workers of Congress party are extremely important and they deserve more respect than what they are given at present. If any senior leader will disrespect them then I will personally take action against them." Gandhi had reached Durg in a helicopter at 2:45 pm to reach the stadium at 3 pm. He told the crowd, "My first task is to spread the ideology of Congress to the whole nation. Booth level workers will play a major role in completing this task." 
 
 For this, Gandhi added, Shakti program has been initiated to increase direct communication between booth workers and party leaders over phone. The booth workers can give information about their area to the senior party leaders - thereby strengthening the party.The party president gave a live demonstration of the Shakti program by calling a booth level worker to ask her about her work. Gandhi also asked the party workers about the difficulties and challenges being faced by them.
 
 Talking about the party manifesto, Gandhi said that this election's manifesto will be prepared after a detailed discussion with booth-level workers. Gandhi left the stadium at 4:30 pm amidst hordes of supporters to begin his mega rally to Raipur airport. Accompanied by PCC chief Bhupesh Baghel, Gandhi boarded the open bus travelling through Durg, Bhilai and Raipur to reach the Swami Vivekananda International Airport. 
 
  Security arrangements beefed up: Security was beefed up for the Congress president's rally and over 1,200 police jawans were deployed along with Special Protection Group. Gandhi stepped down from the bus to meeting a crowd of Congress workers who had gathered there with elephants and horses to greet him. His convoy reached Raipur via GE road, moving through Ashwini Nagar, Idgah Bhata, Lakhe Nagar, Purani Bastar, Budhapara, White House Chowk, Shastri Chowk to reach the airport. Traffic diversions were put in place as some of the busiest roads were blocked due to the rally. 
 
 Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee president Bhupesh Baghel, Durg MP Tamradhwaj Sahu, legislator Arun Vora, Bhilai mayor Devendra Yadav and other leaders took part in the rally. 
 
 
