JAIPUR: The state government has proposed to reduce the number of floors in multi-storeyed buildings, to be constructed by developers on government land for the low-income group (LIG) and economically weaker section (EWS) under the chief minister’s ambitious  .

 The number of floors are now proposed to reduce from G+9 to G+4 . A UDH official informed TOI that under provision 4(A) and 4(B), the EWS/LIG houses are to be developed on government land by private developers. The move is expected to lure more private builders who are apprehensive to invest in Mukhyamantri Jan Awas Yojana due to high costing. “The construction cost of the buildings would be reduced. For G+10, the developers have to seek several clearances including fire  , environment clearance and   approval. This increases the cost of developers, as a result they do not show interest in the existing rates.”
 
 Once the new proposal is implemented, nine G+ 9 projects proposed to be constructed on   (JDA) land under provision 4A (2) will be revised.
 
 An official said under 4A (2) provision a total of 8,800 houses were proposed to be constructed in nine projects. All these projects were G+9. The rates provided to the developers was Rs 1,000 per sq feet, while actual cost is between Rs 1,100 and 1,200 per sq feet. The developer is allowed to construct and sell 25 % of the reserve land to cover the gap funding. “Earlier, the developers did not appreciate this model as cost of clearance was to be borne by them. After the height is reduced we are hoping more developers would participate as costing would be feasible.”
 
 To achieve the target of constructing 10 lakh houses by 2019, the UDH is leaving no stone unturned to lure developers. Earlier, in Jaipur not a single developer had shown interest to construct houses under provision 4(A) and 4(B) model even though JDA had invited expression of interest (EOI) thrice. “Three times no builder came forward to construct houses for EWS and LIG sections under this model. Once the tenders were cancelled as only one bidder had participated.”
 
 Sources at JDA said that even with the proposal of reduced height of buildings, not many builders will show interest as government land is situated in far-flung areas, which is 30- 35 km from Ajmeri Gate. “The JDA lands are at a very far distance. Many lands are 12-15 km away from human habitation. The developers will not show interest as it would not give instant profit.”
 
 
