Acid attack survivor and social activist  , who hails from Delhi, was recently felicitated in Mumbai for overcoming her personal struggles and her endeavour to rehabilitate other acid attack survivors and encourage them to come forward and embrace their scars. In a conversation with BT, Laxmi spoke about the bullying she has been subjected to and how it was mostly women who mocked her, once she stopped hiding her face behind scarfs. She shared, “Sabse zyaada jo comment karti hain who ladkiya hain. It used to hurt me a lot. But I managed to stay positive with support from my family.”

  Talking about surviving the ordeal, when a stalker, whose marriage proposal she had rejected, hurled acid at her in 2005 at the age of 15, Laxmi said, “When I first saw my face in the mirror after two-and-a-half months, I thought to myself, ‘I do not deserve something as bad as this; this cannot happen to me.’ All I said was ‘no’.An acid attack does not happen to just one person, it happens to the entire family. After that incident, I have survived many other things — my father and brother passed away and there was nothing left in my life. Whatever fear I had in my mind, this attack took that fear out of me.”
 
  She believes that in recent times, there has been a change in the mindset of acid attack survivors, “Now, victims come forward as survivors. Girls who could not even speak or communicate their feelings to their family members are coming out in the open and fighting for their rights.”
 
  Laxmi added, “Also, acid attack survivors, who had closed their cases owing to social stigma, are now reopening the files to bring their culprits to justice. Another change is that girls used to hide the reason behind those scars — cylinder blasts, some unfortunate incident at home, etc — but they are now going to events and interacting with people. When they are asked about their scars, they say, ‘Hum par acid attack hua hai’. They are not ashamed anymore. Girls have started giving it back to their naysayers.” 
 
  Laxmi, who has walked the ramp for many fashion designers and has posed for professional photo shoots, feels that these platforms have helped her be the voice for victims, who are still afraid to face the world. “In 2009, I took up the challenge of revealing my face to the world. It was the toughest challenge I had ever taken up. In 2013, I came in front of the media and the next year, I walked at my first ever fashion show. It was a very big platform for me, as I knew nothing about fashion then. When the designer came up to me and asked me if I would like to be the showstopper, I did not even know what it meant (laughs!). When I went for the show, my friend, who is also an acid attack survivor, got high fever, thinking how I am going to face the world! But that show also boosted her confidence and she thought, ‘If Laxmi can do it, so can I’. Through such shows, we reach out to survivors who are too scared to talk about their plight and come out of the confined walls of their homes. Though I’ve never liked fashion shows, I’ve realised that if this gives survivors the strength to face their fears, then it’s a blessing.”
 
