KOLKATA: The conflict between metered taxis and app cabs that had flared up at Kolkata airport a few months ago, when space was being allotted to the latter, is now simmering at   and   stations. While   managed to start its services on a quiet note at Howrah station on Friday, Ola’s attempts to start operating in Sealdah has been foiled by unions that control metered taxis and autorickshaws.

 
 Uber and Ola had won tenders floated by   for operations at the two stations. Following this, the aggregators were to be allotted space for booking zones at the terminals and dedicated parking and pick-up zones outside. But the unionised metered taxis have opposed it. 
 
 “We will protest any attempt to open app-cab booths at stations. They are allowed to get away with any fares while metered taxis that have served the city for decades are being treated with utter disregard,” said Bimal Guha of Bengal Taxi Association. 
 
 At Sealdah station, autorickshaw operators joined metered taxi drivers to stir trouble when Eastern Railway attempted to allot space to Ola on January 1. Most of the cabs here are aligned to the Trinamool Congress-led Progressive Taximen’s Union. 
 
 Sealdah station deputy railway manager Basudev Panda acknowledged the problem. “There is a problem between app cabs and metered taxis that we will sort out within the next three-four days,” he said.
 
 At Howrah station, Uber started services without setting up kiosks. “We will test the waters over the weekend and if all goes smoothly, the kiosks will be installed from Monday,” an Uber driver told TOI. 
 
 Police said they anticipated less problems at Howrah station than at Sealdah as the former was more structured with all metered taxis routed through pre-paid booths and controlled by cops. 
 
 ”We have executed partnerships with public transit agencies in India and have been effective in becoming a reliable first- and last-mile connectivity solution. We expect the partnership to make travelling to and from Howrah station hassle free,” said Uber Kolkata GM Arpit Mundra.
 
 
