He’s just 29, but   has come a long way from his home in the village of Siddha in East Midnapore. His intellect has taken him far, with his research on brain cancer drugs providing him with the perfect platform for studies abroad. But the biggest challenge yet for Samarpan was on an altogether different platform recently — at the grand finale of   2018. 
Standing on stage in the final rounds, Samarpan was asked by judge   — “What is the definition of love to you?” “Ami Bangla medium. Phor phor kore ingreji bolte pari na. So, like always, I thought in   and then translated my answer in English,” Samarpan recounts. “I said, ‘Love is something in which you find inner peace without altering your true self’. However, I fumbled and faltered quite a bit.”
 While everyone was impressed by his philosophy, one judge pointed out that his English was unbelievably poor. And then something happened that changed the course of the evening, and perhaps, even Samarpan’s life. “The host,  , came forward and declared, ‘Forget English. Why are we so obsessed with the language? This is not a platform to judge one’s English skills’. That changed the whole deal. I was asked to answer the same question in Bengali, and I did. That stole the show,” Samarpan adds. He was eventually declared the winner and will represent India in the Mr Gay World 2018 contest in South Africa in May — making him a rare combination of good looks and brains and an icon of social and sexual inclusiveness in a country still struggling to legally accept the   community. 
 
 
 Samarpan, who counts  , Hedy Lamarr and pin-up maths teacher   as his inspiration, spends a lot of time in the lab when he’s not working out at the gym. “I’ve been exercising since 2015 and spend one and a half hours every morning at the gym. My area of research is glioblastoma multiforme, one of the most aggressive forms of cancers that begin in the brain. I have almost completed my PhD thesis. But I’m yet to get the degree and I’m tense,” says Samarpan, who is doing his research at a well-known Kolkata institute and has already cleared the first interview for his post-doctoral research at a US university. 
 Unlike in other families, his parents never wanted him to be a doctor or engineer. “Those two professions were strictly barred,” remembers Samarpan. “My father, Sudarshan Maiti, wanted me to be a writer, at least a journalist. I write a lot though. Some little magazines in Kolkata have even dared to publish my poems,” he laughs. “But I love science and I always loved exams. I took all the entrance examinations and I cleared IIT, IISc Bangalore and so on. I took NET exams three times for fun. You don’t need to complete your Masters before writing NET. So, I took it twice while doing my Masters.” Two of his papers have been published in international journals.
 
  
 Where exactly amid these impressive academic achievements does modelling fit in? For Samarpan, his tryst with the world of fashion began after his father bought a TV when he was in Class X. “Two things happened in my life. First, I got hooked on a fashion channel and wanted to be like the models at least once in my life. And secondly, I realised I was enjoying male catwalks more than female one. I am 5’6”. You have to be 5’7” to participate in mainstream modelling contests. So I could not pursue modelling at that time. But I knew I liked men,” confesses Samarpan.
 So, was that the time when he identified his sexual orientation? “More or less, yes. I had sexual interactions with girls when I was in school. I was discovering myself then. But when I was in college I was sure that I was more comfortable with men,” he says. But with a chiselled body and innocent features, Samarpan still gets a lot of attention from female fans. “Yes, women make passes at me and this has increased after I won the crown! I got a text recently that read, ‘I hope you are going to change your orientation one day’,” Samarpan laughs.
 
 
 However, life has not been this smooth for Samarpan, especially in his college days. It became extremely difficult for him when he left his village and got admitted in a college in Midnapore town. “My father passed away and we were not so well off. I had a tough time coming to terms with this reality,” he says. Things became worse in the college hostel. “I have never been good in sports. I could not even casually use swear words like other boys in college. I used to sing, dance and write and was majorly judged for this. Then I found a friend, Debasish Ghosh. I used to confide in him and that became an issue. People started gossiping about us. One day, our hostel authorities asked us to stop talking to each other or leave the hostel. That was ridiculous, because we were not dating. But I was scared of losing the only friend I had during that ordeal. Then Debasish took a stand and we decided to move out. We rented a small apartment and gossip spread like wildfire. The fact is, he is my best friend, who’s going to marry my sister, Samarpita. He still remains one of my biggest support systems,” Samarpan recalls.
 
 
 There was a time when Samarpan thought he would never come out. “There are many gay men who live a dual life. They get married, take up a job away from home and settle down. Samaj khushi, amio khushi. In 2013, I realised it’s wrong. I can’t cheat. When you are constantly targeted by society, you take shelter under a comfortable lie. I also thought I would hide my sexuality and kept on saying, ‘I’m not gay’. And then that shackle broke. I decided to confront society. I told my family and friends,” he says. 
 But was it difficult for the family? “We are a middle-class, financially unstable rural family,” says Samarpan’s mother, Sushama, who was compelled to take up a job in a school after her husband’s death. “We never had to go to bed hungry, but when he joined as a research fellow, a piece of chicken was a luxury for us. I always wanted him to find a stable job, but his dream was always to do something path-breaking. I am really proud of his achievements but at the same time, I am worried. I am not sure how society is going to treat him. God knows how much discrimination is waiting for him in the future,” she adds.
 It wasn’t easy for Samarpan to be a part of LGBTQ community in Kolkata either. “A large group of LGBTQ activists here suffers from elitism. It took me forever to be a part of the group. Things started changing after I competed at the 
 Mr Gay World India contest. I am a much more evolved person now. 
 There were more than 1,000 applicants. Eighty were selected in the first round and finally I won. Of course, I am much more confident,” he says. “I joined a gym a few years back and that helped me get a toned body. Now, I feel like a model,” he laughs.
 
  
 But what would be his contribution to society if he wins the global crown? “I don’t need a crown to do what I do. I’ve been working with villagers and the underprivileged on the rights of sexual minorities. Our government will do only that much in terms of sex education for schoolkids. If we really want to sensitise, we have to start with the younger generation and that is what I’m doing,” he says.
 Many of his fellow researchers at his institute had no clue about his orientation till he won the title. “They had no inkling that I was gay. So I asked them, now that they were aware of my orientation, what were their thoughts. ‘We are really happy about your win. Just chill — come to the lab soon we will celebrate,’ they said. I think it’s a great response,” says Samarpan.
 
 
 While Samarpan is on his way to becoming a recognised gay figure, he’s doing his bit to promote sexual equality and openness. Take a look at the card announcing the wedding of his sister to his friend Debasish Ghosh. The invite has a profound message of harmony. It reads, “With this invitation letter, another message I would like to convey that love has no gender. Please support marriage equality so that all of our children can celebrate their life with their desired life partner irrespective of gender (sic).”
 For a boy coming from a traditional Bengali family, this card is a fearless expression of self-belief like no other!
 
