After Agra’s booming café culture, it is the   that are slowly and steadily catching up fast in the city. While the trend is already a hit in cities Delhi, Bangalore and Mumbai, Agra has recently joined the league. While the young generation is getting some of the most popular food items from across the world at affordable prices at these food trucks, the owners are delighted to pursue their passion of serving state-of-the-art recipes, and that too with lesser investment. These food trucks are coming up with unique themes to add on to their USPs and attract more  .

 
 
  stationed at   is a venture by Ankit Singh, an engineer and an MBA. Ankit, who hails from Uttarakhand, wanted to start his own business after completing his studies. He says, "Low investment and easy mobility of food trucks enticed me to venture into this business. With a growing popularity of food trucks in India and with Agra having an increasingly younger population, it appeared to me as a lucrative option. We offer a large variety of fries served with different sauces, along with other popular dishes like chaap, pasta, burgers, sandwiches, noodles and shakes.” Ankit adds, “We are planning to come up with two more food trucks in the city. We are also planning to collaborate with local artists who share a common interest in Bollywood."
 
  
  TRUCK IT! Another food truck at Kamla Nagar
 
 
 
 A foodie couple Abhishek Verma and Samagya wanted to start a café, initially, but seeing the boom in the popularity of food trucks, the couple started a food truck, Fruck in Kamla Nagar, near Ram Mandir. Abhishek, who manages the truck (and sometimes, even drive it too!) says, "We regularly keep updating our menu. Our USP is affordable, tasty and hygienic food. We serve a great variety of sandwiches, burgers, pasta, honey-chilly potato, gluten-free tortilla pizza and customized shakes. After receiving a positive feedback from Agrawallahs, we are planning to open another truck at Khandari."
 
  
  Youngsters trying out different delicacies from a food truck at Kamla Nagar 
 
 
 
 Brother duo Manish and Nikhil Agarwal of   offer 31 different varieties of dosa, with its specialty being pizza dosa, spring roll dosa and cheese dosa. Manish says, "The idea behind starting a south-Indian food truck was to provide good quality south-Indian cuisine to Agrawallahs. Youngsters, these days, are health-conscious and the south-Indian food is a healthy solution to all their health-related qualms."
 For the past one year since its inception, they have expanded their business and have now grown to five trucks, with three of the trucks being stationed at Kamla Nagar, Jaipur House and Sikandra-Bodla Road and the remaining two are serving at parties. "We chose to open a food truck instead of a restaurant as food trucks look more attractive, and it is convenient for the passersby to grab a quick bite. Also, the investments in it are low and profit margins are high," Manish adds.
 
  
  QUICK BITES: Another food truck at Kamla Nagar
 
 
 
 Brother duo Abhishek and Mayank Vij set up their first food truck three years ago in Kamla Nagar, and have now expanded into   and more vans. They say, "Our specialties are our in-house sauces – Szechwan and garlic sauce. Most of our dishes are inspired by the street food of Mumbai. We also offer non-veg dishes including chicken lollipop and chicken shawarma, among others. We have one of the widest ranges of non-veg menus among food trucks in Agra. Initially, we just started with serving starters but now, with a growing popularity of food trucks, we have now added main-course dishes too."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Harshit Gupta, a student of BITS Pilani, says, "Food trucks offer a wide variety of dishes to choose from, and that too at reasonable prices. It is something lucrative for college students like me, who live on a limited budget."
 Surbhi Gandhi, a student of Dayalbagh Educational Institute, says, "I love drinking shakes. Like any other branded outlets, these trucks offer good quality shakes at reasonable prices."
 Naman Singhal, a student of St. Peter’s School, says, "I almost go out every day with my friends to have something after our coaching. Earlier, there were only limited options for us to hang out and that too quite expensive. With the food trucks placed at convenient locations in the city, our options for hanging out have increased."
 
  
  
 --Manika Singhal
 
 
 
 
 
 
