A swimming pool offers relief from summer heat, and makes for an excellent exercising ground. Picture underwater squats and lunges. Exercising in the pool is a good alternative to unload the body when it fatigues from intense land-based exercises. “Aqua jogging, flutter kicking (low-impact cardio exercise performed with or without a kickboard), leg lifts, standing water push-ups and arm curls are some easy-to-do   you can try. Many pools and gyms are offering regular batches in water boxing, aqua step as well as introducing specialised equipment that can be used for different exercises underwater,” says fitness expert Dr Arun Kumar. Underwater strength training is the newest to join the water workouts bandwagon. It is a low-impact exercise and boosts both heart rate and muscle strength. 

 Underwater workout also have the potential to appeal to a wider range of people because regardless of your fitness level, there is a good chance that you can enjoy them. Adding to this, there are many benefits of underwater workouts which have led to its popularity in recent times. “One of the most preferred reasons is that you can exercise underwater even while recovering from an injury or with health problems. It allows you to continue exercising without putting any stress on your injury. The buoyancy of the water reduces weight, therefore putting significantly less stress on joints, bones and muscles. Also, because your body is supported by water your heart rate is slightly lower, meaning aquatic therapy is relatively safe for obese individuals, pregnant women and those suffering from hypertension and heart disease,” adds Kumar.
 
 EASY WATER EXERCISES
 
 This involves all your muscle groups as you will try to float. Try floating for at least three minutes, if you are a beginner and move your way up to 5 or 10 minutes. 
 
  This movement is performed while standing on one leg, which is slightly bent, and one leg outstretched in front while one hand holds onto the side of the pool. It strengthens and stretches the muscles in the leg, hip and lower back. 
 
  You must stretch after a session of aqua aerobics or water workouts.
  
 — Inputs by fitness expert Kiran Sawhney. 
 
 PS: Consult a trainer/fitness expert before trying out any exercise.
 
 Ancient Hawaiians were probably the first to develop strength training in water since they swam in the deep seas carrying large rocks!
 
