CHANDIGARH: Same people are standing as sureties for different accused in multiple cases of snatchings, police told the Punjab and Haryana   during the hearing of the case related to rise in snatchings in the city on Tuesday.

 
 
  
 
 
 In many cases, the same person by changing address have stood as surety in different FIRs, police said, informing the court that 15 persons stood as sureties in 37 snatching cases.
 
 Terming it a serious problem, the high court has directed one such person, Rekha Rani, who had stood as surety for six persons in as many cases, to appear before the court.
 
 The police submitted a list of 14 persons who had stood surety in multiple cases. Sunil Kumar of Sector 52 stood as sureties in five cases; Amandeep Kaur of   in three cases; Jaswinder Singh of Ropar in four cases; Gurmukh Singh of Kalka, Jagtar Singh of Mohali, Naveen Kumar of Rupnagar, Pyara Singh of Ropar, Sajandeen of Sector 38 West, Shish Pal of Dariya, Jai Narayan of Panchkula, Baldev Singh of Kalka and Harkesh Kumar of Derabassi in two cases.
 
 The court said this was a violation of law and should be stopped. The court was also told that necessary steps were being taken to make changes to make snatching a non-bailable offence in Chandigarh, like Punjab and Haryana.
 
 On the last hearing on May 18, the high court had slammed the UT administration for its alleged non-serious approach on the amendment of IPC provisions in snatching cases. The high court had directed the Chandigarh Police to produce evidence in support of its allegations against trial courts about its casual approach in granting bail to the accused.
 
 Advocate Hari Chand had brought it to the notice of the court that the police, in its affidavit filed on May 10, had given certain suggestions, which are required to be looked into by the bench. The suggestions included that trial courts should properly verify the persons who stand surety for the accused in chain snatching cases and consider grant of bail in case of habitual offenders.
 
 The counsel supported the suggestions by observing that touts, who arranged surety for the accused, were always roaming around the courts. The bench then directed the administration to produce evidence in support of its allegations.
 
