Mumbai: The   has kick-started consolidation in its defence and aerospace business, which is dispersed across various listed and unlisted entities, by bringing them under a single vertical within the holding company, Tata Sons. It said on Friday that Tata Sons’ wholly owned subsidiary   Systems will buy the defence division of the publicly listed Tata Power for Rs 2,230 crore.

 At least a dozen group companies — including  ,  , Tata Technologies and   Manufacturing — are involved in the defence and aerospace business, which clocked revenues of Rs 2,650 crore in fiscal 2016. These businesses will be brought under the recently created infrastructure, defence and aerospace cluster, headed by former GE India chief Banmali Agrawala.
 
 The defence and aerospace business, which the group entered in the 1940s with the supply of armoured steel for supporting the World War II effort, has been growing at a compounded annual rate of over 15% in the last five years. The consolidation move will remove duplication and build scale, which will help in bidding for projects with a higher net worth. 
 
 With the government trying to reduce its over-dependence on imports by stimulating indigenous defence industry, the group is betting on the segment as a big source for future growth. Tata Motors and Tata Power’s defence division are contenders for the government’s Rs 60,000-crore   project.
 
 The sale of the defence division by Tata Power will mark the electricity generating company’s exit from the business, which it had started in 1974. The unit, named Tata Power Strategic Engineering Division, manufactures and assembles missile launchers and night vision devices at its Bengaluru plant, and had a turnover of Rs 548 crore in fiscal 2017. 
 
 Tata Power said that of the Rs 2,230 crore, it will get Rs 1,040 crore at the time of deal closure and the balance Rs 1,190 crore on the division achieving certain milestones. The proceeds from the sale will help the company to improve its balance sheet.
 
 
