KOLKATA: The bulletproof car and the pilot van were withdrawn from mayor and minister Sovan Chatterjee’s motorcade while he was on his way to office on Wednesday after his security status was downgraded from Z+ to Z category. The surprise action — following the recommendation of the state directorate of security — triggered a daylong drama with chief minister   initially dismissing the development that was later backed up by the state police.

  
  
 
 Chatterjee felt slighted the way the decision was carried out without any prior intimation. He could smell that something was on the cards when the security guard at his residence left the place on Tuesday night. “I do not know why my security cover was beefed up months ago. I don’t have any clue why it has been downgraded. Those who are assigned to look after the security issues can only say why they did it. I would only expect them to provide me security,” he said.\
 
 Chatterjee got emotional and said he valued “trust” and “respect” much more than anything else. “I was not born a mayor. I came to politics as grassroots activist and have gone through many ups and downs. I got injured several times, but have never bothered about my personal security. At present, I am going through a personal crisis. My family life is in a mess. I had to leave my ancestral home and am now staying in south Kolkata. Even my enemies don’t deserve to go through what I am going through now,” the mayor said.
 
 Sovan, whom Mamata lovingly calls by his nickname Kanan, doesn’t read much into the sudden slide in his security status. Chatterjee’s security was upgraded by two notches months ago to Z+ from Y category on the ground that he had a “life threat”. Asked if he smelt a conspiracy in the surprise move, the mayor said: “I don’t see anything right now.”
 
 In the assembly, however, the CM said: “Who said that Sovan Chatterjee’s security cover has been downgraded? He enjoys Z category security along with two other ministers, Bobby ( ) and Aroop ( ), because they have to tour the districts. I enjoy Z+ security,” the CM said.
 
 The answer came from  , a little later. “The security status of the Kolkata mayor has been changed from Z+ to Z category based on the recommendations of the directorate of security that reviews the security status of VIPs from time to time,” additional CP III Supratim Sarkar said. Sarkar also added that the security status of ministers Arup Biswas and Firhad Hakim has been upgraded from Y to Z category.
 
 
