CHANDIGARH:   Foundation chairperson Sudha Murthy had first visited   in 1973, when she accompanied her sister for her admission in a post-graduation course in the institute. Realizing the dream of her sister who wished to care for the poor and the needy after 45 years, the wife of Infosys founder Narayana Murthy contributed Rs 22 crore for the newly set-up 300-bedded Infosys Foundation Red Cross sarai at the PGI campus, inaugurated by Union home minister   on Tuesday.

 Murthy told TOI, “I was not approached by anyone for setting up the sarai. I come from a family of doctors. My father was a gynaecologist and sister a doctor. She got admission near her home town, so she did not join PGI. I understand the problems faced by patients.” “My sister told me those who can afford can be taken care off by the hospital, but what about the poor? So, we thought about working in the northern part of the country for such services. We already have such services in Karnataka, Odisha and Maharashtra”
 
 The sarai has 36 dormitories and 13 private rooms. The sarai would charge Rs 100 per day for dormitory and Rs 500 per day for private room. There is a separate wing on the third floor exclusively for women. “If there is a separate female ward in hospitals, there is also a need for the same in a sarai,” said Murthy. Appreciating the support from PGI, Murthy said, “We didn’t get this kind of support from AIIMS, New Delhi, where we wanted to set up such a facility. We cannot do all the running around for official clearances.”
 
 The sarai will be maintained by the Indian Red Cross Society, Chandigarh. “We will need between Rs 9 lakh to Rs 10 lakh per month for its maintenance,” said an official of the UT administration. There are three sarais in the institute and as the footfall of the patients is huge, the new sarai will benefit patients. Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGI, said, “This centre will enable homeless relatives to stay here who come from far-off places for treatment here.”
 
 Meanwhile, a new six-storey administrative block at Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, was also inaugurated by the Union home minister.
 
 
