NEW DELHI: A drunken argument between two revellers at a GK-I pub in   turned nasty early Sunday morning, when one of them whipped out a pistol and fired at the other. The victim escaped with minor injuries on his collar bone.

 
 The shooting was reported around 3am. The pub, Rich Bratz 17, was allegedly open way past closing time. The accused was overpowered by the pub staff and customers and handed over to the police. He has been identified as Umesh, a resident of Govindpuri, who was earlier held for a robbery charge.
 
 
 
 
 Cops said they have moved for cancellation of the pub’s licence. “The pub allowed a person without proper frisking because of which he could carry a gun inside. People were also consuming hookah illegally and the place was operating beyond permissible hours despite warnings,” said a senior police officer.
 
 In the wake of the incident, all pubs and clubs in the city have been asked to ensure proper frisking of customers. Police have decided to restrict entry to south Delhi pub hubs to 9.30pm. The sequence of events leading to the shooting is not yet clear. The victim,  , as well as accused were unable to give a proper account as both were injured. However, cops said it appeared that the fight started after the two brushed past each other.   was conscious after being hit. “He told his friends that his shoulder was suddenly bleeding,” his friend said.
 
 Bhati, a resident of  , had gone to the pub with two other friends – Vinay Kumar and Sam. They were later joined by another friend, Bittu. Minutes before the incident, Bhati recorded a video on his mobile and streamed it live. He and his friends were seen smoking hookah and dancing on Punjabi songs.
 
 “The friends were leaving the pub when Vinay reportedly brushed past Umesh. The duo allegedly got into a verbal fight, which suddenly escalated when Umesh fired from his pistol,” said a family member.
 
 “There were many people in the club at the time and loud music was being played. Bhati was behind me and he told me that he has been shot near the neck. I initially thought that he is joking but as we came out, we saw blood coming out and took him to the hospital,” Bhati’s friend Vinay Kumar shared, adding that he saw around four-five men with the accused.
 
 Police have booked Umesh for attempt to murder and are trying to find out where did he buy the country-made pistol from, said DCP (south) Romil Baaniya. Both Bhati and Umesh were taken to the   trauma centre. Cops have taken the CCTV footage from the club and outside the area to ascertain the exact sequence of events.
 
