LUCKNOW: Less than nine days after facing an embarrassing defeat in   byelection, a seat he had won five times in a row, chief minister   avenged the loss by defeating the combined opposition of SP, BSP,  , RJD and sweeping nine of the 10 Rajya Sabha seats from Uttar Pradesh.

 
 A lot of planning, number crunching and strategising had gone into the win which looked improbable at a time. Buoyed by the bypoll win, the opposition parties had grouped together to stop BJP’s march ahead and also to cobble up an alliance ahead of 2019 general elections.
 
 
 Yogi held three meetings with ministers, MLAs and senior party leaders till late into the night and did not leave Lucknow except for a programme in Ferozabad. He did not even go to Gorakhnath temple where he usually goes in Navaratras.
 
 
 The party high command also pitched in and took the charge of wooing sulking partners Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and Apna Dal and paratrooped national treasurer and Union minister Piyush Goyal who met NDA partners and talked to MLAs outside the alliance.
 
 
 The efforts were commensurate with the preparations on the rival side, where three veterans SP general secretary  , BSP leader Satish Chandra Mishra and Pramod Tewari of Congress had put their heads together in planning out a victory.
 
 
 By late Thursday night,   was so confident that it allotted 39 votes, two extra to all the eight candidates, for their smooth victory.
 
 
 CM Yogi kept taking reports of the voting process throughout the day and as soon as the results were out, he reached Tilak Hall and celebrated the victory with senior leaders.
 
 
 In his first reaction, Yogi attacked   and played soft on BSP, cautioning it against an ungrateful partner.
 
 
 Driving a wedge between SP and BSP, Yogi was unsparing in his attack on principal political opponent, Samajwadi Party, by saying, “Yeh lena to jaante hain par dena nahi jaante” (They (SP)are takers not givers).
 
 
 The RS win is a short in the arm for Yogi and comes at a time when his leadership was being questioned, partners were posing to pull away and questions were being raised on governance. It was being feared that the emergence of SP-BSP alliance would pose a serious danger in 2019.
 
 
 The win will boost Yogi’s stature and tighten his grip in the party and government, enabling him to go for ministry reshuffle and drop nonperformers.
 
