GURUGRAM: The Haryana government’s latest   — recently formulated by the department of urban local bodies (ULB) and notified in February 2018 — have raised the hackles of both   and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation ( ) authorities, who have expressed fear they might have to shelve their expansion plans in Gurugram and the rest of the state.

  
 The new bylaws prohibit advertisements on Metro pillars and the median, and stipulate that no advertising can be displayed at metro stations, foot overbridges and other metro properties that face the direction of traffic on roads.
 
 In a letter to the MCG commissioner, Rapid Metro Rail Gurugram Limited (RMGL) director Rajiv Banga has warned that the advertising bylaws sound the death knell for existing metro services and upcoming projects in the state. “All local bodies are promoting metro services all over the country, but for reasons best known to the Haryana ULB department, it has formulated advertising bylaws in a way so as to sound the death knell of metro services in the state. This will also affect upcoming MRTS (mass rapid transit system) and metro networks planned by HSIIDC/MCG. Nowhere in India barring Haryana is there a prohibition on advertisements on Metro pillars/median. The world over, metro services compensate low fares by generating non-fare revenue,” reads the letter dated March 12 (TOI has a copy).
 
 The letter was in response to objections, invited on February 27 by the ULB department, to the ‘Haryana Municipal Corporation Advertisement Bylaws 2018’. The Rapid Metro director also wrote that the new rules would impede growth and progress of the state, which is aiming to develop smart cities.
 
 Citing the new Metro Rail Policy 2017, framed by the Union ministry of urban development, Banga said the policy aims to encourage private investments across the range of metro operations through the public-private partnership route, explore alternative and innovative sources of funds, ensure that metro rail companies rema-in financially healthy and stable, maximise revenue through commercial development at stations and on land, and encourage endeavours exploiting non-fare box revenue such as advertiseme-nts, leasing of space, providing integrated transportation systems, etc. 
 
 The letter also mentions various representations made by Rapid Metro during the past two years, none of which was considered by MCG.
 
 Sources said DMRC, whose Yellow Line has five stations within Gurugram, has also filed similar objections to the new bylaws with the ULB department, but officials did not share any details.
 
 Rapid Metro, especially, will be affected if its advertisement revenue falls because its ridership figures have so far been well below expectations. Currently, the network sees an average footfall of 40,000 daily and earns more from advertising than from ticket sales. 
 
 Former MCG commissioner V Umashankar had written to the ULB department that advertisements form a big source of revenue for all metro services, and they help in reducing the lack of economic viability of the service as well as aid expansion plans. He had then requested that the proposed bylaws should permit advertisements on all metro pillars, subject to general road safety requirements.
 
 
 
