CHANDIGARH: Nearly a year after the Panjab   (PU) syndicate had approved the university’s vehicle-free policy, PU will finally ban the entry of vehicles belonging to both outsiders and students in the academic area from June 1. Vehicles of faculty members and non-teaching staff with stickers will only be allowed in the academic area. The chairpersons were apprised about the decision to implement the ban in a meeting held here on Monday. 

 Panjab University registrar Col G S Chadha (retd) confirmed that the restriction of entry of vehicles in the academic area will be implemented from June 1. “The faculty members will be allowed with their vehicles since many of them are old and women wearing sarees find it difficult to move without their vehicles. However, we would encourage the young faculty members to cycle to their departments,” added Chadha. 
 
 According to university's vehicle-free policy, offences like speeding, parking at non-designated zones, blowing of horns, use of bikes without mufflers and vehicles without stickers would evoke a fine of Rs 100. The policy was approved by the syndicate during its meeting on June 25, 2017, in which the report of the sub-committee was tabled for consideration. 
 
 When asked, PU chief security officer   said, “Vehicles of teachers and non-teaching staff with stickers will be allowed. The students can come on bicycles and avail the facility of e-rickshaw and no outsiders’ vehicles would be allowed. However, if a student is unwell or in pain, he/she would be allowed to be dropped off.”
 
 As per the initial plan, the university had decided to install boom barriers to restrict the entry of vehicles in academic areas. However, the boom barrier installed in front of the arts block –I was damaged after a collision between two cars at the spot. It was then decided to install wicket dates instead of boom barriers to restrict the entry. 
 
 It was first during the 2015   campus student council ( ) elections that a majority of students had voted to ban four-wheelers in academic area of the university campus.
 
 
