Ahmedabad: A delicate glide from his emotional moorings would have made Ustad Amjad Ali Khan an Ahmedabad resident. But the roots of devotion to his father, Ustad Haafiz Ali Khan, lie in Delhi. Amdavadi rasikas are lucky, however, that the city has hosted him frequently when he performs at  . In 2018, his recital was the festival’s finale. 

 “In 1976, after our marriage, a big reception had been organized by Kumar Club in Ahmedabad,” Subhalakshmi Khan née Borooah, the maestro’s wife, told TOI. “Many of his fans wanted him to settle in Ahmedabad. He considered that option. But he is sensitive about the fact that his father’s mazhaar is in Delhi.” 
 
 
 Khan sahab’s sensitivity nurtures not only the truths of his self, but also of his art. So when he plays, he transmits musical cues as though they are instinct’s messages about the right course. At Saptak, on January 13, Khan sahab communicated with his accompanist Pandit Kumar Bose by only looking at the tabla. The ustad would approach softer passages like a parent reaching out for a sleeping infant; and the pandit’s tabla beats would tiptoe to that raga phrase. During crescendos, the ustad would move his head like a heavy metal star, but his smile would be that of a man who defines the grace of the Hindustani tradition. And the pandit would produce thunder as stately as the ustad’s smiles. Khan sahab had opened the concert with Pandit Bose’s solo rendition — a rare modulation of tradition that signalled the trust between the performers. Khan sahab always stresses that art creates trust by inspiring people to contemplate beauty together: it united the ustad and the pandit; it bound the audience regardless of status or religion; and it had brought together Khan sahab and Subhalakshmi Borooah. At Saptak, Khan sahab dedicated to his wife a bihu tune from Assam, her home state. Among the ragas rendered by Khan sahab were Jaijawanti, Bihari, and Bhairavi. But the audience’s applause indicated that he was presenting the music of India’s spirit. “Refinement of life is fine arts,” Subhalakshmi Khan told TOI. And Khan sahab showed the life India wants for all. 
 
 
