BHOPAL: The   has ordered an   in the city to   to at least 15 students after complaints that the school was collecting money from parents belonging to   whose wards were enrolled under   (RTE) scheme.

 According to the complaint received by the district project coordinator (DPC), the school has been charging Rs 1,500 per child since the past two years.
 
 A group of parents from the economically weaker sections lodged the complaint, claiming that the school authorities had allegedly asked them to pay fees citing the reason that the school was no more under the ambit of the RTE scheme. The parents raised the issue after St Peter’s Marthoma High School in Govindpura asked the parents to pay fees for the new academic session.
 
 “We have initiated an inquiry in this matter and the report will be prepared in two days. As per the preliminary probe, the school has been taking fees from 15 students admitted under RTE and we have directed them to reimburse the amount to the students,” said Shiromani Dubey, the DPC of Bhopal, adding that the school will be taken to task after the inquiry is complete.
 
 Speaking to TOI, district education officer (DEO) Dharmendra Kumar Sharma said that the matter is of serious concern. “This case will help us know if other schools are also indulging in the same practice. I have called for a meeting where parents of students admitted under the RTE scheme will be asked to share their grievances,” Sharma said.
 
 The DEO added that lack of awareness among parents of children enrolled under RTE leads to such cases. “We will have to sensitise the parents as well as schools regarding the matter,” Sharma added.
 
 Defending their act, school secretary CA Abraham told TOI that the school never asked for any tuition fees from students but took Rs 1,500 annually for school diaries, tours, supports kits, etc, which are not covered by the RTE Act.
 
 “It is not only our school. An inquiry must be made because all private schools charge this money for other activities,” Abraham said. Abraham said the school has to treat all children equally and if students do not pay for these charges, the school has to bear them from its own pocket.
 
 Under the RTE Act, 2009, all private schools were asked to admit students from economically weaker sections of the society on 25% of their seats. But, a Supreme Court judgment exempted minority institutes from the ambit of the RTE Act in the year 2014.
 
 
