AHMEDABAD: Bajrang Dal men allegedly chopped off the fingers of   in   of Gandhinagar district in Gujarat for disobeying the Hindu right wing group’s diktat to remain indoors.

 Roshanbiwi Syed, 52, had her left thumb, index finger and middle finger chopped off. Her son, Farzan, 32, suffered fractures on his hands and skull. Both were hospitalized and are reportedly stable.
 
 According to local activists, communal tension has been high in the area since December 6, when the local Bajrang Dal led a procession through the Muslim-dominated Kasbavaas in Chhatral, to mark the 1992 demolition of the Babri mosque. On Sunday night, tension escalated after a fight broke out in the area, the reason for which is still unclear.
 
 Roshanbiwi’s nephew Aslam Syed said, “On Monday morning, Syed and her son were cautioned not to leave their locality. When they went out to graze their cattle, some members of Bajrang Dal attacked them,” he said.
 
 “Luckily, a person from the Bharwad community who was out to sell milk spotted them and saved their lives by taking them to their family,” said Aslam.
 
 Roshanbiwi had to undergo surgery. Chhatral police, present at the hospital, said they will register an FIR once the victims are conscious and can give their statements.
 
 Sharif Malek, a local activist, said that those who had attacked the mother-son duo and were involved in similar incidents of violence in the area earlier and all belonged to the Bajrang Dal. Virendrasingh Yadav, SP Gandhinagar, said there were two incidents of violence on Monday, one at Pratappura village and another at Chhatral. Both incidents happened within the Kalol taluka police station’s jurisdiction.
 
 “In this incident (of chopping fingers), police will lodge a complaint under IPC Section 307 for attempt to murder and will conduct a thorough investigation to find out whether this was an incident of communal violence or personal enmity,” Yadav said.
 
 He added, “We have called for a meeting of the local peace keeping committee and have deployed police forces in Chhatral to make sure communal tension does not flare up there.”
 
 
 
