Surabhi Rawat, a Delhi-based freelance writer, is planning to spend February 14 with an unconventional Valentine: her oneyear-old Labrador. She has booked a Rs 2,800 spa session, which will include grooming and nail clipping, for   in  .

 Like Rawat, many are choosing four-legged companions over two legged this V-Day. Compared to human Valentines, dogs are easier to please and safer to hang out with, say  . “Nobody is going to harass me and my dog if we are just sitting in the park,” says Rishi Singhal, an HR executive in Bengaluru who is taking the day off to spend time with his two-year-old Beagle.
 
 Singhal’s park outing may cost nothing but others are rolling out gifts, pamper hampers, and pet parties. Canine wellness centre The House of Pawz (THOP) in Versova, Mumbai has planned a socialise-over-pets event for the February 17-18 weekend (as February 14 is aweekday). “You can come with your dogs and meet other interesting pet parents,” says Shruti Roy, founder of  . Roy is also hosting a V-Day adoption drive to gift your spouse/partner a canine, stalls of dog food, grooming services and a live guitar performance.
 
 Other savvy retailers are also jumping on the pet-love bandwagon. According to a Nestle survey, conducted before the launch of its dog food brand in India, pet ownership stands at 19 million and is expected to double in the next five years.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Rashi Narang, founder and creative head, Heads Up for Tails (HUFT), says that her spa in Chattarpur is “packed with bookings” for February 13 and 14. For Rs 2,499, pet parents can buy a Valentine Wag Box filled with goodies like heart-shaped cookies, a personalised collar and a detachable  .
 
 Day-care centre Canine Elite and NGO ICUC in Mehrauli, Delhi, is hosting a movie night under the stars for Rs 2,000 for a couple plus pet. The deal includes a buffet dinner, handmade soaps, soda and popcorn, and bandanas for pets. While most animal lovers prefer pampering their pooches in the city, some like Roy of THOP want to do something different. A few years ago, while working in the UK, she went on a weekend road trip with Yeyo, her Staffordshire bull terrier. “We drove from Sheffield to the Lake district and did typical Valentine-y things. We walked around, went to cafes and pubs and had our meals together,” says Roy, who now lives in Mumbai with her husband and two dogs, Tookie and Calf. While she admits that she enjoys spending V-Day with her husband just as much as with her dogs, she likes it the best when they’re all with her.
 
