The latest episode decided the captain of the house for the upcoming week.

 The episode started with the end of Khel Mandala task. Everyone in the house was praising Rutuja and   for doing the task extremely well. Inspite of all the physical activities given by the opposite team, the two played the task till the end.
 
 Majority of the members of the house were unhappy with Megha’s behavior. Even Sai and Pushkar were upset with her. They felt that   is too obsessed with the task.
 
 Megha and Sai have an argument regarding the selection of names for the captaincy.
 
 Bigg Boss asks the two teams to select two players from each team for captaincy. 
 
 Pushkar and Rutuja get selected from Sai’s team for the captaincy nomination whereas   and Jui’s name is given from Megha’s team. 
 
 Later, all the members other than the 4 nominated contestants are asked to select two names from the four given for captaincy. They are also asked to justify the same with a reason. 
 
 Majority of them pick up Pushkar and Smita for the captaincy task. Pushkar referrs Rutuja as immature and she gets very angry on Pushkar.
 
 Meanwhile, Bigg Boss asks everyone to gather in the living room and announced the captaincy task. According to the rules of the task, members supporting Pushkar and Smita were asked to give challenges to the members from opposite team respectively. So Pushkar’s supporters had to challenge Smita’s team members whereas Smita’s supporters had to give a challenge to Pushkar’s team members.
 
 The challenges given during the task were, Jui was asked to drink a glass full of milk whereas Bhushan was asked to eat 12 raw eggs. Sai was asked to make 85 cow-dung balls in a minute whereas Smita was asked to do push-ups with her hands tied.
 
 Smita’s supporters completed more challenges and so she became the captain of the house for the upcoming week. 
 
 Lastly, Rajesh Shringarpore, who is kept in the secret room is seen crying and requets Bigg Boss to get him out of the room for some time.
 
 
