MUMBAI: Notwithstanding the fact that a 16-year-old who accused her   of raping her just four days after her mother’s death last year turned hostile when her statement was recorded before the magistrate court, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act   rejected the 35-year-old man’s   plea last week.

 
  
  
 
 After the prosecutor strongly opposed the bail plea on the grounds that the accused was a close relative and it was natural for the child to not support the prosecution’s case, the court refused to grant him bail. The accused was arrested on November 16.
 
 While seeking bail, the defence said the   had told the magistrate that she was angry with the accused as he had slapped her for not preparing food. She also stated before the magistrate that her mother had died and the accused had promised to look after her family.
 
 The court, though, pointed to medical evidence and the fact that when he was produced for medical examination at Sion Hospital, the accused stated that he had “consensual sex” with the teenager after he caught her watching porn. “Nowhere did the FIR, which was lodged instantly by the victim, mention any such consensual sex between them. There was also no reason for the girl to have consensual sex with her brother-in-law within four days of her mother’s death. It is a pure case of   committed by the accused upon the girl,” the special court observed.
 
 The court said the statement recorded before the magistrate shows that the girl probably turned hostile because the accused might have promised to maintain the family after her mother’s death. “So, if the accused is released on bail, there is every possibility of him again sexually molesting and harassing the girl and repeating such a crime and also influencing the witnesses,” the court said while rejecting his bail plea.
 
 The prosecution’s case is that the child’s mother had died in a road accident on November 7 last year, after which her brother-in-law, who lived in another city, came to visit the family. The prosecution further said that on November 12, around 1pm, when the minor was taking a nap, she realized that she was being molested. The prosecution further submitted that when she protested, the accused clamped her mouth with his hand and slapped her younger sister, who had also woken up due to the noise. The two minors were alone as their father and other relatives had gone out. The accused is then alleged to have raped the girl. The prosecution said he fled later and the girl informed a neighbour about the crime. The minor, accompanied by the neighbour, then lodged a police complaint.
 
 Special public prosecutor Geeta Sharma submitted that there was no reason for the girl to lodge a false report against her close relative if no such incident had happened.
 
 
