NOIDA: With peak demand expected to breach 1100 MW this summer, the Noida power department is gearing up to ensure uninterrupted supply.

 While a Rs 550-crore contract has been signed with L&T Power to provide electricity to rural areas in five districts — Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Meerut and Hapur, 40   of 400 kVA have been installed in Noida’s sectors 17, 72, 71, 61 and 58 earlier this month to meet the peak summer demand, officials said.
 
 “We’ve signed a pact with L&T Power to provide power to the rural ares of five districts under Pradhan Mantri Sahaj Bijli Har Ghar Yojana-Saubhagya,” AK Singh, superintending engineer of Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (PVVNL-division 2) and in-charge of Greater Noida, Dadri and Jewar, told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 “All measures are being taken from upgrading/servicing old transformers to installing new ones like 40 transformers of 400 kVA in sectors 17, 72, 71, 61, 58 and more to ensure better power supply this summer. These transformers are in addition to 17 transformers of 400 kVA that were installed in February this year in areas such as Wazidpur, sector 22, 63, 63 A, 66, 68, Mamura village and Bahlolpur village,” he added.
 
 According to PVVNL superintending engineer Rakesh Kumar Rana, total 79 transformers of 400 kVA capacity were sanctioned by Noida Authority for installation across the city this year. “The remaining installations are expected to be completed within a couple of months in Hazipur village and Sector 104,” he said.
 
 Earlier this week, an industries delegation met Arvind Rajvedi, the director of UP Power Corporation, requesting uninterrupted power supply. 
 
 Rajvedi assured the delegation, led by Vipin Malhan, president, Noida Entrepreneurs Association of uninterrupted power for 20 hours a day this summer. He also assured action on sprucing infrastructure like servicing /upgrading old, existing transformers, loose wires, cables, rusting poles, panel boxes and pruning of trees to check mangling during thunder showers.
 
 “The department is committed to provide full supply to industries,” said Rajvedi.
 
 
