Bhopal: After the Chitrakoot assembly by-poll defeat in November, Saturday’s urban civic poll results are the second warning signal for the BJP, the party ruling the state for 14 years. The BJP has lost local bodies in urban and semi-urban areas where the Congress share in voting percentage has suddenly surged by 7%. In 2013 assembly elections, the BJP secured 44.88% of total votes polled while Congress received 36.38%. Urban civic polls results of the 19 municipalities and town councils reveal both the BJP and the Congress received 43% each of votes polled for the post of chairman in the local bodies. For corporators, the BJP got 46% of the votes polled and Congress 43%. This figure itself cannot be good news for the BJP and should send a clear message to party leaders and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Ruling BJP’s ambitious slogan of “Ab ki Baar 200 paar (this time to cross 200 seats)” for the November assembly elections maybe in serious jeopardy. In 2013 assembly elections, the BJP secured 165 of the 230 seats while Congress got 58. In the following year’s Lok Sabha polls, the BJP in Madhya Pradesh defeated the Congress in 27 out of 29 seats. On Saturday, it was the same Congress thought to have been decimated in the state that stood shoulder to shoulder with the BJP which claimed it would attain Congress-mukt Bharat (Congress-free India). When BJP lost Ater in April last year and Chitrakoot later, the party’s state leadership claimed Congress won these seats riding on the sympathy waves after death of former leader of Opposition Satyadev Katare and MLA Prem Singh. But the urban civic polls across six districts have not been guided by any sympathy wave. In addition to the 20 urban civic bodies, three chairpersons of the town councils of Akoda in Bhind, Karnawad in Dewas district and Khilchipur in Rajgarh district faced voting Under Right to Recall section 47, sub section 2 of the MP Municipality Act 1961. It means that unhappy with their functioning or lack of it, voters wanted to recall them from their present responsibilities. In Akoda, chairperson from the BSP Sangeeta Yadav won the polls and after getting voters’ support retained her position. But in Karnawad and Khilchipur, where both chairpersons were from the BJP, voters decided they wanted new faces. Kantabai Patidar, BJP chairman of Khilchipur lost by 2270 votes against her and the party’s Deepak Nagar lost by 380 votes in Karnawad. While BJP faced a rout in Manawar municipality where it ruled for 45 years, the ruling party faced a total wash-out in Anjad town council in Barwani. After 15 years, Anjad decided to bring home the Congress giving the party 14 out of 15 wards. The BJP could not win even a single seat because the sole remaining ward went to an independent. If this was the quarter-final before the assembly polls as both BJP and Congress have been asserting then the semi-final would be fought in Mungaoli and Kolaras next month. And any election, even if it is the civic polls, so close to the assembly elections scheduled for November is bound to have an effect.