Nagpur: In almost all the districts of the state,   has become a major threat to groundwater. It is believed to cause blue baby syndrome.

 The monitored data by Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) shows that the concentration of nitrate is well above the permissible limit all over the state. As per the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), the permissible limit for nitrate is 45 mg/litres.
 
 However the board’s data for May 2016 shows that the values of nitrate have been exceeding the permissible limit at many places. While it was recorded 403 mg/l in Satara, in Akola and Buldhana it was 69 and 57 mg/l. 
 
 According to the board’s scientist Devsharan Sharma, the increase in nitrate is mainly due to anthropogenic activities like unscientific disposal of garbage and improper sewage system. “One in every ten sample has high concentration of nitrate,” he added. 
 
 For tackling nitrate pollution, the board has recommended various measures which include installation of sewage treatment plants. “All the nullahs carrying domestic sewage should be lined both horizontally and vertically. Also, proper disposal of solid waste from slums and cattle sheds should be ensured,” the board stated, adding that public awareness regarding sanitation is a must.
 
 Apart from nitrate, high concentration of fluoride in some parts of the state is another cause of worry. While its permissible limit is 1 mg/litres, it is “present up to 2.42 mg/l in certain parts”. 
 
 The report shows that at a monitored site in Salori in Chandrapur, the concentration of fluoride was 2.29 mg/l. At a site in Allapalli in Gadchiroli, it was 2.08 mg/l while in Ramdespeth, Nagpur, it was 2.19 mg/l. “At three wells in Yavatmal, the concentration of fluoride has been found very high and locals have been directed not to use that water,” said Sharma.
 
 Though fluoride presence in groundwater is mainly due to presence of specific minerals in the geological formation, studies revealed that anthropogenic activities like using fertilizers and pesticides containing phosphates, discharge of untreated industrial effluents and unabated over-exploitation of groundwater are also responsible for high fluoride levels which can lead to fluoride poisoning and skeleton and dental fluorosis.
 
 
