Vijayawada: The Anti-Corruption Bureau ( ) conducted a raid at the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) leaving the engineering wing in a dilemma over the timing of it. These raids have caused the officials to blame each other for the same while there are suspicions that someone from within the department is responsible for the same. 

 Since the bifurcation of the states, VMC has been focusing a lot on improving the infrastructure in the city with major engineering works like development of roads, greenery, city beautification and Storm Water Drains (SWD). 
 
 Work undertaken during for Krishna Pushkarams in 2016 was one of the highlights for VMCs work, but the YSRC corporators have termed this work shoddy and done with the intentions of benefiting local contractors.
 
  “We have raised our voice about poor quality works taken by VMC for Krishna Pushkarams and the majority of roads laid in 2016 are now in a pathetic condition with huge potholes,” says Communist Party of India (Marxist) leader Gaade Adilakshmi said. 
 
 “SWD works in the city have become a rehabilitation for L&T and the work is going on the slow pace and in a poor condition. ACB should probe deep into this issue and bring the facts out,” YSRC leader Bandi Punyaseela said. When contacted, the officials of engineering wing have denied allegations made by opposition parties and said that inspections were done due to a complaint being filed by an unknown person. 
 
 P. Adiseshu Chief Engineer of VMC has asserted that VMC has maintained proper work standards and the bills payments to the contractors have been made on the basis of progress of works. He also said that the Civil wing of Pinnamaneni Siddhartha Engineering college is inspecting the quality of works and assured of no compromise in the quality. 
 
 “ACB officials have collected road samples from a few infrastructure works undertaken in the city and have also asked us to submit actual plans of projects and bills paid in recent time along with Krishna Pushkaralu’s bills. We don't have any clue about who complained about the quality of works, but we are confident that there is nothing wrong from our side,” Adiseshu added.
 
 
