Thousands of commuters who depend on MTC services were left high and dry on Friday as the strike by transport workers entered the second day. Transport minister   in the morning said temporary arrangements had been made to ensure the public was not affected, but the reality was chaos.

 While skeletal services were operated in the morning, returning home was tougher as these too were withdrawn.
 
 In the evening, regular autorickshaws and share autos were crammed with commuters desperate to get home paying whatever was demanded. Several autorickshaw drivers, however, claimed the day was only slightly better than normal. “Many stayed home. Only the unwitting were stranded and they were willing to wait for the few buses available,” said one. Cab drivers too did not see any unusual demand. “I made just 200 more than the 1,000 I make normally. MTC regulars never opt for cabs,” said K Selvakumar, a driver.
 
  
  
 
 As Adyar resident T Mahalingam waited at Madhya Kailash for a bus to Alandur, S  , who sells peanuts on a pushcart, said, “(since 6pm) I saw only one bus stop here. Usually, about 40-50 buses go by.”
 
 K Nagarajan, a former record-keeper at the Madras high court, waited at the T Nagar depot for 90 minutes from 6pm for a bus on route 5A to Pallikaranai. “I considered taking a train to   and finding a way home before it got too late. On a regular day, there is a bus every seven minutes during peak hour.” Lights were turned off at many depots to discourage crowds.
 
 In the afternoon, there were more buses to   or Parry’s, but not many to Guindy or beyond on  , affecting students of Qaid-e-Millath Government College for   and Ethiraj College. A student from the government college, who managed to get a bus to T Nagar around 3pm, said, “My friends and I were waiting since 1.30pm. The first few buses were so crowded we could not board.” She said many of her friends had reached college only around noon and only attended the last hour. The education department advised teachers to take the attendance call after 10am, anticipating late arrivals.
 
 The authorities tried to rope in people with heavy vehicle driver licences to operate buses and also engaged private buses. At Thiruvanmiyur, a   bus with a capacity to seat 40, was waiting to take passengers to Tambaram (20) via   (10).
 
 Parveen Travels managing director A   said about 250 buses of private operators had benn deployed. “If the strike continues on Saturday, the omnibus operators association will deploy more buses in the city as well as the suburbs,” he said.
 
