KOLKATA: The   ( ) on Wednesday confirmed its March 29 decision to suspend the registration of interventional radiologist   and general surgeon   on medical negligence charges. The formal procedure of verdict was completed on Wednesday, which will be sent to the duo.

 The decision to hold to the two guilty of negligence for the death of Dankuni resident Sanjay Roy, 30, was based on the findings of report by a special committee appointed to reinvestigate the case. The special committee was appointed after WBMC’s own penal and ethical committee had given a clean chit to the doctors.
 
 According to sources, the final decision saw some committee members keen to record their contrary opinion. However, the sources said convention that such decisions are always taken unanimously was cited to dissuade these members from registering their protests. “Registering a protest would have created a bad precedent and so the few members who did not agree with the decision finally gave in. However, this decision can be challenged in court or an appeal against this order can be made to the principal secretary (health),” said a   insider.
 
 An official, however, claimed that the decision was taken with consensus and that there was no divide in the house on the verdict. “There was no voice of dissent on the verdict when the confirmation was announced during Wednesday’s proceedings. The copies of the verdict are being sent to the two doctors. Once these letters reach them, they will have to stop their practice for the duration mentioned in the verdict,” said a WBMC office bearer.
 
 The order, passed on Wednesday, runs contrary to the one passed earlier by the eightmember penal and ethical committee comprising the council’s own registrar and director (medical education). This committee, in its October 2017 report, had said it found no medical negligence on part of the two doctors. The special committee formed to reinvestigate the issue, however, nailed the duo of medical negligence in its December 2017 report.
 
 Roy was admitted in Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on February 16, 2017. He was shifted to SSKM on the night of February 23 against the advice of Apollo doctors and died at the staterun hospital within hours.
 
