Chennai: On the premises of the 302-year-old Armenian Church is a tombstone that marks the grave of Haruthiun Shmavonyan, considered the father of Armenian journalism. He was also the founder of the first ever Armenian journal ‘Azdarar’ or ‘The Messenger’, published in Madras, in 1794.

 The grave is just one of the forgotten remnants of Armenian heritage in the city, which a new book by a former Indian ambassador to   hopes to bring back into public memory. ‘India-Armenia: So Far yet So Close’, written by Achal Malhotra and published by Shivkumar Eashwaran, Consul General of Armenia, will be launched on April 22. Chronicling the history of Indo-Armenian links, its release has been timed to coincide with the silver jubilee of Indo-Armenian diplomatic ties in India.
 
 And it looks like the diplomats are going full throttle to bring the Armenians into focus. Eashwaran says there are plans to erect an Armenian monument near Fort St George. "And there are plans afoot to open an Armenian restaurant in the city in the next few months, which will be the first-of-its-kind in south India, so get ready for some authentic lavash," he says, adding that the Consulate has also been marketing Armenia to Bollywood and Kollywood directors as a great location to shoot movies in. "The first such Indian movie, director Selvaraghavan’s upcoming Tamil film ‘Mannavan Vandhanadi’, has been shot there," says the rather pleased Consul General.
 
 According to Malhotra, the Armenian association in India can be divided into different phases — in ancient times there is literary evidence to prove Indian colonies — around 450 of them — existed in Armenia from 149 BC up to 4th century AD. "Then reportedly in 780 AD, Thomas Cana reached the Malabar Coast, making him the first Armenian   to set foot in southern India. Thereafter, we have indications of Armenians settling down here," says Malhotra.
 
 "The first Armenian printing press too was set up in Madras in early 1770s, by the ‘Madras Group’ of Armenian intellectuals whose paper, ‘VorogyatParats’ (Snare of Glory),has been described as the world’s first-known blue print for a Constitutional Democracy," says Malhotra, who returned from Armenia in 2012 but began writing the book only in 2016.
 
 He adds that while there were a number of Armenian families in Chennai till 1947 (Shivkumar puts the number at 3000), after India’s independence most of them moved out assuming they did not have a future in India. Today, says Shivkumar, there are around six Armenians in the city, all of them youngsters who have moved here either to work or because they have married Indians.
 
 "Around 100 Indians travel to Armenia every year to study. Some end up marrying Armenians before returning and that way, the Armenian community is growing in India," says Malhotra.
 
 Ashkhen Khachatryan for instance, who moved to Chennai in 2014, is married to Chennai-born architect Kapilan Jesudian, the two of them having met in Armenia when he was there on business. Ashkhen, who works as a Russian language teacher at the Russian Centre for Science and Culture, is also the South India coordinator of the Indo-Armenian friendship NGO, which hosts community meet-ups in the city. "We have an annual service in the Armenian Church, which we revived a few years ago," says Ashkhen, adding that the six Armenians in the city also meet to mark certain landmark days in their history – Christmas, Easter, and every April 24, to honour the 1.5 million killed in the Armenian genocide of 1915.
 
 It was love of a different kind that brought Nane Artsruny Gharibyan to the city. "I learned yoga in Armenia and wanted to come to the place where it all began. Within India, it was Chennai that drew me in because of its rich culture," says the 32-year-old who has been here since 2015. "I’ve always thought of the universe as my home, but now, I am in a relationship with someone in Chennai so perhaps the city will become my actual home," she adds.
 
 
