PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The   ( ) is looking to   a non-motorised   plan to reduce traffic congestion and air pollution.

 Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “Growing urbanization in the city has led to tremendous rise in human as well as vehicle population in the past few decades. We need to consider the safety of pedestrians. A detailed   for all types of   transport needs to be created. One of the options is the bicycle sharing scheme adopted by  .”
 
 PCMC has created cycle tracks along several roads but most are being used to park vehicles or are encroached by hawkers. “There is a need to ensure that the cycle tracks are free of encroachments. We will consider it while preparing the plan,” Hardikar said.
 
 A civic official said, “PMC has implemented the bicycle sharing project on a public private partnership (PPP) basis. PCMC will also explore if such a project can be implemented. The company that runs the bicycle rental service in Pune held a presentation of its work before PCMC officials.” 
 
 He said the civic body has created cycle tracks along four BRT routes. “Tracks are also being created along the Dighi-Alandi section of Pune-Alandi Road and Nigdi-Kiwale Road. The length of cycle tracks in the city is around 45km,” he added.
 
 The cycle tracks are mostly encroached by parked vehicles, goods displayed by adjacent shops, resale vehicle parking, handcarts, hawkers and others. “The civic body’s anti-encroachment squad will take action against such encroachments to ensure free movement on cycle tracks,” the official added.
 
 The company running the bicycle rental service in Pune held a presentation of its work before PCMC officials recently. “They have told us that citizens will be able to make payment for this service through mobile apps. Discussions have been held if such a project can be implemented throughout the city. A feasibility report will also have to be prepared before the policy can be prepared and approved by the civic general body,” the official said.
 
 
