KOLKATA: The fiasco over the   Class XII economics paper and its re-test had forced many students to cancel their postexam plans even as they spent an uneasy three weeks leading to the re-examination on April 25.

  Several candidates and their parents had feared tougher questions the second time. But the boards results on Saturday came as a surprise, with most examinees faring well in the subject, many bagging over 90%. In fact, at some schools, the subject score was better than that in other years.
 
 “This year’s economics results have been better than any other year. Three of our students, Kashish Tibrewal, Akash Muhury and  , have scored cent percent. Almost 40% has scored 90% and above. We also have 100% pass result in economics,” said at Birla Bharati principal  . DPS Ruby Park head of economics department   described the re-test paper as “balanced”. “The students’ performance was commendable. The paper was successful in analysing their aptitude and in-depth knowledge,” he said.
 
  and Anushka Mazumdar, sisters studying at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, have secured 86 and 82 in economics. “The question paper was easy and the exam had gone well. I did perform better in the re-test. The mathematics portion was simpler than that in the original paper. I scored around what I expected,” Anushna said. “I will study BCom honours.”
 
 Birla Bharati School’s Anjishnu Chakrabarti, who has topped the humanities stream at his institute with 98.2% in aggregate, has bagged 99% in economics. “The re-test went extremely well. I had studied hard for this subject as I considered myself weak in economics. The retest questions were easier, though. I was under stress but still bagged 99% in the subject, which was beyond my expectations,” Anjishnu said.
 
 At Birla High School, six boys have scored a perfect 100 in economics. “Apart from them, more than 50% boys have scored 95% percent and above in the subject, while 75% of them scored 90%,” said Suparna Mukherjee, coordinator and economics teacher at Birla High School. “The mean of economics marks in our school is more than 92.” Moumita Dutta Gupta, a South Point High School student, has bagged 99 in economics. “The retest paper was easier than the one, which was cancelled,” she said.
 
 But there are some who are not quite happy with the economics marks. “Last year, six from Lakshmipat Singhania Academy got 100 in economics. Many got 99 but not one 100 this time. I expected good results after the first economics test. But the retest at the end of a three-week gap demoralized students,” said Sangeeta Hore, economics teacher at the school. “I even consider one question was disputed.”
 
