HYDERABAD: A 22-year-old Indian-American IT professional, who has thrown his hat in the ring for the post of  , is drawing attention for more than one reason.

 
 Shubham Goel, a techie with roots in Uttar Pradesh, is drawing more and more eyeballs to his campaign blitz. He is there on the streets with his megaphone, talking to crowds and passersby on why he’s the right guy to succeed Democrat governor Jerry Brown, who served two fouryear terms. Shubham is making use of the latest virtual reality technology to interact with people. “I think virtual reality technology will change the world and solve educational issues in California,” he told TOI.
 
 Shubham’s parents pursued their American dream and made it to the US as IT professionals. His mother Karuna Goel hails from Meerut and his father, Vipul Goel, who has his own software company is from Lucknow.
 
 Shubham studied economics and cinema at the  . After graduating last year, he started working from October. He lives in Danville, California.
 
 Shubham took the electoral plunge and he has his reasons. “I was born and raised in California. New-age tech can fix issues. I believe I am the first politician to campaign in virtual reality. There are many innovators out there, but they are not as involved in politics as they should be,” Shubham, who also works for a virtual reality company, said.
 
 “I think we need independent voices,” he said in response to a question on why he’s in the fray. He’s a ‘nonpartisan’ candidate without political affiliation. “I think it’s time we use technology in politics and get the money out,” he said.
 
 Shubham is also raising the issue of corruption. “There is much corruption,” he said, agreeing with someone who spoke against the malaise during an interaction on virtual reality. “What are your plans as far as the administration goes?” he was asked during his campaign. “I will implement virtual reality in the public education system and this will bring down cost,” he said.
 
 “I also want to raise representation and awareness for the Indian community in decision-making,” he told TOI. “I am running for governor to encourage the young to hope and have a conviction to make a change rather than money and fame,” he said.
 
 But, it’s not just on virtual reality that Shubham tries to get his message across. He has delivered lectures at several schools and in different cities, including Santa Monica, San Francisco, Merced, Bravas, Walnut Creek and Cambria. But how does he fancy his chances in the election? “I am getting a lot of support,” Shubham said.
 
