AHMEDABAD : Gujarat’s track record in tackling iron deficiency anaemia (IDA), one of the biggest causes of maternal mortality among women, may be questionable. Ironical it may sound, the state whose 55% women population is anaemic, could establish itself as the torch-bearer for others in eradicating this blood disorder. Even the   health ministry has decided to emulate this   model across India.

 India’s first pilot project for administering ferric carboxy maltose ( ), the most revolutionary molecule for anaemia, has been carried out in the state with stupendous success. The results of the study carried out over three years show a significant rise in haemoglobin levels of anaemic pregnant women -- that too without any side-effects, unlike those seen in the current iron therapies.
 
 On Friday, a presentation of the results of pilot project was made in a meeting held in New Delhi between Dr Dinesh Baswal, maternal health (in-charge), GoI, Dr Vineet Mishra, head of gynaecology and obstetrics at IKDRC and Dr Devesh Patel, health officer, Vadodara Municipal Corporation ( ).
  
  
 The Union health ministry has decided to run similar pilot projects in other states battling anaemia, beginning with Haryana.
 
 In all, 914 moderate to severely anaemic women (861 in Vadodara and 53 in Chhota Udepur) were administered FCM in the pilot projects launched by department of gynaecology and obstetrics at   (IKDRC) and Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). Results show that compared to present iron therapies, the increase in haemoglobin levels using FCM were much higher by about 2.2 to 3%.
 
 According to   (WHO) estimates, of the nearly 1,36,000 maternal deaths occurring in India every year, two-thirds occur due to post-partum haemorrhage (PPH). PPH is the severe loss of blood of more than 500 ml or 1,000 ml within the first 24 hours of childbirth. 
 
 In Gujarat, the maternal mortality ratio per 1,00,000 live births is 112 as per government data as compared to national average of 168.
 
 Simply put, the increase in haemoglobin levels drastically improve chances of women suffering from PPH during delivery, thereby bringing down maternal mortality. “Once FCM is administered, the haemoglobin levels are sustained for at least two years, said Dr Mishra, adding this would go a long way in reducing maternal mortality and morbidity.
 
 As a part of the pilot project, the anaemic women were divided into four groups who were given four different iron therapies – namely FCM, iron sucrose, oral ferrous ascorbate (branded tablets) and oral ferrous sulphate (tablets distributed under government scheme). The highest increase in haemoglobin levels was seen among 223 women who were given FCM.
 
 Dr Vinod Rao, municipal commissioner, said, "FCM intervention has been an unparalleled success. The cost of the injection will also go down significantly as the patent period is ending after 2018. We have earmarked Rs 1 crore to Rs 2 crore in our own budget for administering FCM to women in the reproductive age group.
 
 Jayanthi Ravi, health commissioner, told TOI: “The health department is considering to move a proposal to seek budgetary allocation to scale up the FCM intervention.”
 
 Dr Niraj Patel, taluka medical officer, Kawant, said, “We saw average 2gm/dl rise in haemoglobin levels and maximum 4.5 gm/dl in all 52 anaemic women in the study. The improvement was even better in severely anaemic women.”
 
 Besides haemoglobin levels, there was a significant improvement in another important blood parameter – serum ferritin. This is the iron that is stored by the body in bone marrows, which can replenish depleted source when needed.
 
 
