PORVORIM: The cabinet advisory committee (CAC) on Thursday decided to permit the movement of royalty-paid ore from jetties to the port, in accordance with the Supreme Court’s recent order. The authorities, it said, would have to confirm that only iron ore for which royalty has been paid and which has been lying at jetties on or before March 15, 2018, is moved.

  It also clarified that an independent clearance from the directorate of mines and geology must be obtained through the  . 
 
 The committee, however, decided to disallow the movement of barges on which royalty-paid ore has been stored prior to March 15. It also chose not to allow movement of royalty-paid ore transported from stockyards to jetties between March 21 and 28 till such ore was segregated to the satisfaction of the mines directorate.
 
 Urban development minister Francis D’Souza said two mining companies had filed a special leave petition before the   seeking relief from a high court order stopping transportation of ore in light of a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the voluntary organisation, Goa Foundation. 
 
 D’Souza said the government would seek clarification from the high court with regard to royalty-paid ore belonging to the other mining companies that is presently stacked at jetties. 
 
 A hearing has been slated for April 11, during which the state will file a detailed affidavit clarifying why it allowed transportation of ore lying outside mining lease areas post March 15. 
 
 Ore lying in Goa is so far categorised as royalty-paid ore (extracted up to March 15, taken out of leasehold areas, and stored either at a stockyard, processing plant or jetty), and ore extracted up to March 15 but lying within leasehold areas, on which royalty has not been paid, thereby making it payable upon dispatch.
 
  The CAC was of the opinion that a third category needed to be created: Royalty-paid ore at jetty points and other storage points outside leasehold areas. 
 
 An official said royalty-paid ore is stocked at all jetties except ACM jetty,   jetty and Sirsaim jetty. 
 
 
