CHANDIGARH: On the second day of the   ( ) 2018, the MBBS entrance exam was held in two slots at various centers across Tricity. The year-long turmoil of many AIIMS aspirants concluded with the culmination of the exam in the last slot at 6.30pm.

 The student reactions outside the centres were similar to that of AIIMS aspirants, who appeared for the entrance test on Saturday. TOI received mixed reactions from the students.  , who appeared for the exam on Sunday, found the biology section of the exam the easiest. “Most of the questions here were NCERT based. The chemistry paper was moderately tough,” she said. However, she complained about the lengthy physics section.
 
 However, Harjas Kaur, another student, didn’t find the biology section easy. “It wasn’t a cake walk. Only those students who thoroughly learnt all topics would have found it easy to answer. It requires a lot of retention power to be able to answer most of the questions correctly,” she said.
 
  found the biology section easier than the last time. “Chemistry section had a substantial amount of questions from biomolecules and polymers, which weren’t really expected. Physics was tough and lengthy because there were lots of questions from modern physics, communication and semiconductors,” she said.
 
 When asked about the general knowledge and mental ability section, she said, “There weren’t many current affairs-based questions. Overall, it was a moderate paper having the same difficulty level as last year.”
 
 Candidates expected the same level of difficulty in all subjects, but it didn’t turn out to be so.   said, “Physics was the toughest to crack amongst all and also involved a lot of calculation, but biology and chemistry were easy. The ups and downs in this distribution might turn out beneficial for some but some might end up losing marks.”
 
 The examination was conducted smoothly amidst security. The students from various centers told TOI that the security staff was cooperative, and checking was done in a proper and organised manner. According to  , a biology expert, the questions of AIIMS 2018 were more analytical and required greater understanding of the subject. He said the biology section was mostly based on the NCERT books. “However, a student will require detailed knowledge and application across related topics to solve the queries. There were questions based on the diagrams given in NCERT also. The chemistry section was also based on the NCERT books but there were some tricky questions from the organic chemistry section. Physics was as always more numerical based with lengthy calculations which led to many students not being able to solve all the questions to their satisfaction,” he said. 
 
 Kunal Singh, who teaches physics, said, “Similar pattern, as well as toughness level, was maintained in all four shifts of the test. AIIMS questions encircle multiple concepts of physics requiring interpretation and logical sequencing considering negative marking scheme. While a majority of the students claimed the physics section was the toughest and time-consuming, overall the difficulty level of the exam was moderate due to scoring chemistry, biology and mental ability questions.”
 
 He further added, “Many aspirants claimed to have attempted above 150 which means that selectivity and accuracy will hold a key to success in this entrance test.”
 
 Ananya Ganguly, an expert in chemistry, believed that the chemistry paper was not tough. However, she admits that the section did examine the depth of knowledge. “We see some factual questions, a few of them beyond the NCERT domain. If a student has done a thorough study of chemistry, he/she would not find it difficult at all,” she said.
 
 Result on June 18
 
 The AIIMS exam 2018 was conducted in four shifts across two days. AIIMS 2018 will be offering 807 seats across nine AIIMS institutes including those newly-established in Nagpur and Guntur. The AIIMS MBBS result will be declared on June 18 followed by counselling sessions. Since the exam is conducted in computer-based mode, no official answer key will be released by the examination conducting authority. 
 
 
