
 When  ,  , painter and installation-maker, recently visited   for a masterclass as part of the 8th   Olympics, he explained to the students how, while dwelling on domestic themes, he explores the mystery of the universe through his work.
 
 
 Subodh displayed his latest work under the title 'From Kitchen to Cosmos' at the event. He showed a slide show of sculptures that were created using rusted and discarded utensils. The students were left in awe when they saw his sculptures on the screen. When a student asked him if he feels trapped in his own image every time he chooses shiny stainless steel?, Subodh said, "That's why I showed you my current work. It doesn’t include shiny steel. I keep experimenting but sometimes people particularly want steel. Then I make the sculptures to just get done with it."
 
 Talking about his kitchen series, he said, "I love cooking. Once, I went to my kitchen to cook something and started observing the utensils more than the food. I immediately took those utensils from my kitchen and placed them in my living room. The satire of stainless steel is telling. It shines so much but it is so cold – I think it is coldest of all the metals. I immediately took those utensils from my kitchen and put them in my living room because I believe they have a lot to say."
 
  
  All ears
 
 
 The French President,  , also visited Subodh’s workshop-cum-manufacturing unit in Gurgaon on his recent visit to the country. Talking about the President’s visit, Subodh said, "When I got the letter from the   informing me that the the President wants to visit my studio, I was quite surprised. I felt ecstatic that someone of that stature is taking interest in my work."
 
 
 Subodh answered a number of queries regarding the managing of sound and light effects that he uses in his work. He said, "I have learned every aspect of theatre, be it stage design, makeup, set lighting and even ticket selling. I have incorporated my learning from the theatre in my work."
 
 
  
 
