Warangal: In a major boost for Warangal’s dreams of emerging as an IT and innovation hub, SR Group on Monday announced the launch   (SR Innovation Exchange), which is being touted as one of the largest technology business incubators in the state and any Tier-II centre in the country. 

 Spread over 1,00,000 sft, SRiX is the largest incubator in Telangana till the new 3.5 lakh sft T-Hub opens its doors in Hyderabad’s HiTec City area. T-Hub currently housed in IIIT-Hyderabad campus is only spread over 70,000 sft.
 
 SRiX, which is supported by the Centre’s department of science and technology (DST) as part of efforts to accelerate the start-up eco-system, was inaugurated by Telangana IT minister KT Rama Rao. DST has extended a grant of Rs 9 crore for the Rs 14 crore SRiX project.
 
 The formation of the Warangal chapter of The Indus Entrepreneur (TiE) and Kakatiya Angles was also announced on the occasion, which saw SRiX announce its cooperation agreement with the two newly formed bodies.
 
 The incubator, which already houses eight startups, will primarily focus on startups in the agriculture, clean tech, IoT, hardware and related cutting-edge technologies space and is equipped with business-friendly workspaces, IoT workshop, and prototyping facilities.
 
 Addressing the gathering, KTR said SRiX is not only probably the biggest incubator in Telangana but in any Tier-II city in the country. He also said this is the first incubator to host a maker and prototype space. 
 
 According to KTR, nearly 5,000 IT/ITeS jobs will be created in Warangal by the end of the year with Cyient (1000) and TechM (500) creating 1500 new jobs between them in this tier-II town.
 
 The SRiX board of advisors includes Harkesh Mittal, head (innovation, entrepreneurship, and tech commercialisation, DST, GoI, Ravi Tyaagi, MD & CEO, SIDBI Venture Capital Ltd, Sridhar Condoor, Chairman, Aerospace & Mechanical Engg, St Louis University, USA, Ashish Despande, co-founder, Elephant Design and Ashwin Mehta, faculty, University of Massachusetts.
 
 
