GAYA:   failed the   test on Friday with only one of its 200-plus cine theatres and multiplexes daring to exhibit the period drama, only to be vandalised by protesters — in turn.

 The fear factor has been so strong that a multiplex in Patna unilaterally cancelled the advance bookings it had received for the movie.
 
 Liberal circles felt Bihar should also have been listed along with Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana in the petition filed on Thursday in the   which on January 18 ordered all-India release of the movie. 
 
 The apex court has agreed to hear the petition, seeking action against the four state governments for their alleged failure to contain the mobs protesting the release of the movie.
 
 Referring to the alleged police inaction when vandals brandishing swords took to streets in several parts of the state,   lawyer Ashok Kumar said it smacked of total surrender of the state machinery before a handful of “criminals”.
 
 “It is a sad day for all Biharis committed to the culture of individual freedom, including free speech and choice,” said the lawyer known as a movie buff among his friends.
 
 However, state principal secretary (home) Amir Subhani denied the perception that the state tacitly supported the saboteurs. “Exhibition or non-exhibition of a film is the prerogative of the theatre owners and the government can do little in the matter,” he said and added insofar as the government was concerned, it was committed to maintaining law and order at any cost.
 
 Asked why did he not exhibit Padmaavat, Gaya multiplex owner Avinash Kumar said the environment was not conducive for it. “I will not exhibit the movie till the resolution of the issue to the satisfaction of its opponents,” said Kumar who also owns two single-screen theatres in Gaya.
 
 Economists point out the blackout of Padmaavat is yet another blow to the fragile economy of Bihar. According to sources, about one third of every movie’s box office collection goes to the state kitty as entertainment tax and, thus, the state will be deprived of the huge revenue it would have earned had the movie been allowed to run.
 
 Noted economist Nawal Kishore Chaudhary said more than the immediate revenue loss, the long-term loss to the state's economy was a matter of concern. “The state’s failure to facilitate normal economic activity will work as a deterrent to potential investors who, in any case, do not bet much on Bihar,” said the former head of economics department of Patna University.
 
 According to Chaudhary, prohibition made Bihar economy “acutely anaemic” and such hooliganism will deliver a near fatal blow to the already gasping state economy.
 
 National award-winning movie Patang’s producer Sanjay Sahay said that not allowing the film's exhibition was a “Taliban-like act” and a dangerous trend against creativity. “Accepting or rejecting a film is the cine-goers’ prerogative and it’s no one’s business to play with individual choices,” said the Gaya resident based on whose short story filmmaker Goutam Ghose made   starrer Patang that won a Silver Lotus in the National Film Festival in 1994.
 
 
