HYDERABAD:   sleuths on Wednesday conducted searches across the country including in Hyderabad on   jewellery showrooms and offices to check alleged tax evasion.

 The searches were carried out at showrooms in Panjagutta and Kukatpally in Hyderabad; as well as in Warangal, Karimnagar, Nizamabad and Khammam in Telangana. Sources said an investigation is on to check suspected sales suppression by the jeweller. IT sources told TOI that stock details and cash deposits have been collected. The case was registered in Kerala by the IT department and raids outside Kerala are being coordinated by the Chennai wing of the IT department.
 
 According to the sources, the IT department is looking into allegations that the jeweller was buying used gold ornaments from customers and showing wastage. A source said, “IT sleuths are looking into the angle that more wastage was shown than what actually happened and tax evaded. They scouted laptops and computers taken from the showrooms. Gold, diamonds and silver in all 17 places in Telangana and AP are being evaluated.” IT sleuths alleged that most jewellers make a profit on the waste shown on ornament making and also when they buy gold ornaments.
 
 Joyalukkas was founded in 1956 and now has a presence in 11countries including a chain of retail shops in the Middle East.
 
 Joyalukkas Group operations include jewellery, money exchange, luxury air charter, fashion and silks and malls. The first showroom in UAE was set up in 1987. On Wednesday, searches were conducted in all 130 showrooms of the group in India.
 
 IT sleuths are to continue the searches on the group on Thursday too. The Joyalukkas Group is a multi-billion dollar conglomerate with branches in India, UAE, USA, UK, Singapore, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait and Oman. John Paul Alukkas is the executive director of the firm. The latest showroom of the group was in Phoenix Market in Bengaluru. In October 2017, it opened showrooms in Kurnool, Anantapur. The group has a huge presence in South India. Joy jets are the first luxury air charters from the group.
 
