NEW DELHI: Taking a dig at the Supreme Court appointed monitoring committee on sealing in Delhi, housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday that the   members “sit in air-conditioned   and have no understanding of the ground realities”. 

 
 Puri’s comment came in the wake of a report filed by the committee in Supreme Court on April 16, in which it suggested total roll back of ordinances and acts after February 7, 2007 regarding protection to the misuse and unauthorised constructions in residential premises, which are under challenge. It also suggested roll back of all changes in the master plan through various notifications since February 2007.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The Union minister has been maintaining that his ministry has the statutory right to amend the master plan and this has been done in the past as well. Puri has also been maintaining that the ground realities in the national capital have changed due to huge migration from rural areas for employment and other facilities that a mega city offers to them.
 
 Ministry officials said some of the suggestions by the SC panel have been accepted such as providing sewage facilities in all unauthorised colonies and treating the liquid waste locally, if the sewage line cannot be laid and not to notify 351 roads for mixed land use till adequate parking facilities are made available.
 
 They said agreeing to all the recommendations would mean pushing the city 60 years back. For example, the committee has suggested that all unauthorised constructions whether ongoing or completed “must be restored back to position as would obtain as per laws applicable.”
 
 It has suggested initiating action to demolish commercial buildings in unauthorised colonies and the land taken back for providing public utilities. Commercial activities in unauthorised colonies should be restricted to 24 categories of small shops of 20 sq meters each as per an SC order of August 2007.
 
 While suggesting the need to roll back all changes in the master plan since February 7, 2007, the committee has suggested, “On mixed land use roads, besides small retail shops, other activities and professional activities are permissible, thus allowing the entire building to be used for commercial purpose thereby making the entire stretch of road as commercial by default.” It has also suggested that the regulation of professional activities in residential areas should be restricted only to the owners of properties.
 
 
