MUMBAI: Charity commissioner S G Dige plans to utilise funds that are at the disposal of religious charitable institutions for mass marriages for farmers’ daughters. Families of farmers in distress and farmers who committed suicide will be eligible for the aid, said Dige.

 “It’s a first experiment of its kind to help the families of farmers in distress or those farmers who committed suicide,” he said. “Under the  , it is well within the powers of the charity commissioner to utilise funds of charitable institutions for a public cause.”
 
 Dige said he found that a large number of farmers, particularly in   and Marathwada, had committed suicide when they could not mobilise resources for the   of their daughters. 
 
 “I found that one of the reasons for the farmers’ suicide is that they have no funds for the marriages of their daughters,” he said. “I felt that if surplus funds available with leading religious charitable funds is made available for the marriages of the daughters of farmers in distress, it will go a long way in tackling the social problem.”
 
 He said mass marriage of poor women was also a social cause and utilisation of surplus funds with religious charitable institutions fell under the provisions of the Maharashtra Public Trust Act, 1950. 
 
 “Certain trusts are utilising the funds for providing medical assistance to needy persons or for educational institutions,” Dige said. “We felt that funds can be utilised to help farmers in distress.”
 
 Dige invoked powers under the Maharashtra Public Trust Act to form district-level committees to draft an action plan. 
 
 “I have asked our deputy and assistant charity commissioners to set up district-level committees to draft an action plan,” he said. “Members of the leading trusts, too, will be incorporated in the committees.”
 
 Once the committees are formed, an independent account should be opened in local banks and funds donated by the charitable trusts deposited there. Part of the funds should be utilised for mass marriages. 
 
 “After the basic formalities are complete, the committee can appeal to the farmers to register the names of their daughters with the committee,” Dige said. “All marriages under the scheme will be as per the religious formalities. Deputy and assistant charity commissioners will supervise the operation of the scheme.”
 
 A revenue official said that from 2001 to 2017, there were 26,000   suicides; the number was 6,500 in the last three years alone. The report on farmer suicides in the country cites lack of funds for the wedding of daughters as one of the reasons for taking the drastic step.
 
 
