

 
 Since 1977, most opinion polls have failed to predict the voters’ mood swing. Predictions have gone horribly wrong since BJP came to power at the Centre with a record number of seats in 2014. Karnataka assembly polls won’t be any different. I am very confident that the May 15 results in Karnataka will throw up an unprecedented outcome with BJP getting 150 seats and Congress relegated to less than its Lok Sabha figure of 48.
 
 
 
 Modi’s magic has so far worked in 21 states across the country and undoubtedly it will continue to work in Karnataka. Such analyses were done even for UP, Tripura, Gujarat and other states. And many have still not understood the definition of achhe din. In the last fourand-a-half years, about 5.5 crore people have got LPG connections, farmers are not complaining about nonavailability of fertilisers and the poor are getting generic medicines at government hospitals. This for me is achhe din. We have succeeded in controlling inflation that was spiralling during the UPA regime and managed to create record jobs t h r o u g h our Mudra scheme.
 
 
 
 This is mere false propaganda of Congress. We have huge respect for our seniors including HD Deve Gowda, Vallabhbhai Patel, Lal Bahadur Shastri and BR Ambedkar. Congress has no respect for them.
 They took trouble to bestow Bharat Ratna on Indira Gandhi but did not deem it fit to bestow the same on Ambedkar. And they cannot tolerate it when we shower praises on such tall leaders.
 
 
 
 There is a big difference in the 1+1 formula of BJP and Congress. Congress formula of 1+1 is Rahul + Siddaramaiah and is equal to vinasha (destruction) and our formula of 1+1 is Modi + Yeddyurappa is equal to Vikasa (development).
 
 
 I completely endorse his statement against Rahul. He is not insulting a layman but the AICC president. He is Modi’s main rival as Congress is still the main opposition party in the country. Holding such a responsible position, how can Rahul disrespect Basavanna by not pronouncing his vachanas correctly? He should have done his homework before reciting it in public. To win votes, you can’t say just about anything and insult a social reformer or Kannada language...
 
 
 
 I stand by the decision of Amit Shah since he is supreme in the party.
 
