NEW DELHI: With the extension of the   to Janakpuri in west Delhi from Kalkaji Mandir currently, south Delhi areas such as  ,  ,  ,   will finally have access to Delhi   services from early April. While the section between Botanical Garden and Kalkaji Mandir, opened in December last year, had closed the gap between south-east Delhi and Noida, the opening of the entire line will create a much-needed south-west corridor. 

 The work on the corridor is now complete save for some finishing touches in a few stations. Trial runs are going on and the   Rail Corporation is getting the clearances for the Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety to carry out a safety inspection, possibly in the coming fortnight. These were confirmed by a DMRC spokesperson on Tuesday.
 
  
 The Magenta Line will considerably reduce travel time between west Delhi and south Delhi and link the capital to NCR hubs in Gurgaon, Faridabad and Noida. For instance, traveling between Hauz Khas and Janakpuri West, which requires a train change at Rajiv Chowk and takes close to 55 minutes, will become half an hour shorter when the new line starts running.
 
 For the lakhs of residents of west Delhi, one of the most populous regions of the capital, the only lifeline connecting them to the rest of the city is the Blue Line (Dwarka Sector 21-Noida City Centre/Vaishali), which involves travelling up to Rajiv Chowk and then changing trains if they want to visit any other part of Delhi-NCR. The opening of the Magenta Line’s Janakpuri West-Kalkaji Mandir will connect heavily populated areas like Palam, Dabri, Mahavir Enclave, Sagarpur and Dashrathpuri.
 
 “We expect commuters to save up to 25 minutes of travel time when the entire Magenta Line starts running,” said a senior DMRC official. “The corridor will also act as a feeder for the currently functioning Blue Line because both the originating stations on this corridor — Janakpuri West and Botanical Garden — are important stations for the Blue Line.”
 
 The Magenta Line will also be a boon to those flying by budget carriers since Terminal 1 of Indira Gandhi International airport will have a station of its own on the corridor. At the moment, flyers have to take a shuttle from the Aerocity station of the Airport Express Line to reach the terminal.
 
 Apart from providing connectivity, state-of-the-art trains and signalling technology in the corridor, DMRC has also gone the extra mile to make the new line one of its greenest ones. The corporation has executed extensive landscaping at many stations, such as at Janakpuri West interchange station, with large sections dedicated to trees.
 
 DMRC has also revamped public parks near the corridor to turn them into vibrant public spaces. During the constructing of the underground stations at Janakpuri West and Dabri Mor, DMRC took over parks located at C-2 Block and Narang Colony. It will not only now restore these, but also equip them with facilities like an open gym, badminton courts, children’s play areas, amphitheatre and gazebos before handing them back to the residents.
 
 
