HYDERABAD: Road accident investigation has gone the forensic way in  . The state   (FSL) has nailed accused in several hit-and-run cases using forensic tools and methods at its physics lab.

 Several road mishaps in Telangana, including those in Cyberabad police commissionerate limits, were solved where paint scratches and glass pieces of both the victim and accused vehicles involved in accidents were collected and analysed leading to nabbing the offender.
 
 Cyberabad police had sent samples in two cases to FSL where people were killed in road mishaps on the   near Amangal and the lab found evidence linking the victims to the culprits. Similarly, Khammam rural police had sent three cases in 2017 and another in 2018, which were examined by FSL, and the offenders traced.
 
 Explaining their procedure, crime scene expert U Rammohan told STOI: “Forensic evidence is the most useful in hit-and-run cases after the accused vehicle flees the scene and caught later. The forensic tests rely on Locard’s Exchange principle, which simply means when two objects collide or hit, there is an exchange of material be it paint flakes or glass pieces. When the accused vehicle flees, there could be possibility of exchange of paint flakes and even broken glass pieces falling into or on the other vehicle. Another possibility is if the car runs over a victim, blood smears may get stuck in the tyre tread. The blood sample is then lifted and compared with the victim. In this manner, the   physics lab has solved several cases of hitand-run accidents.”
 
 Physical matching, microscopic examination, reaction to solvents, pyrolysis gas chromatograph, IR spectrophotometer and elemental analysis were done to examine paint flakes and smears.
 
 “Vehicles involved in two fatal accidents on the National Highway were traced. For scientific evidence to prove it was the same vehicle, we sent the paint flakes and glass pieces at the scene of the accident and as well as in another vehicle to the forensic lab for examination, ” said Amangal sub-inspector A Malleshwar.
 
