LUCKNOW: With seven more encounters leading to the arrest of 10 wanted criminals in the past 24 hours on Saturday evening, the   police hit a strike rate of one ambush every three-and-a-half hours in the last three days.UP cops had carried out 15 encounters in the preceding 48 hours. Cops arrested 34 criminals, most of them with gunshot wounds, and shot two in last 72 hours.

 Director General of Police (DGP) OP Singh said that the encounters are a part of aggressive policing that is needed to keep law and order under control. “Our effort is to arrest wanted criminals and put them in jail. But one should not expect police to look the other way if criminals fire at cops,” Singh told TOI. He said as many as a dozen policemen suffered injuries in encounters that have taken place in last three days.
 
 
 An important ambush was reported from Lucknow where police nabbed four members of the infamous   tribe from   after an encounter in   area around day break on Saturday. The four members confessed to their involvement in the recent dacoities reported from Chinhat, Kakori and Malihabad. While two of the arrested accused suffered gunshot wounds, two others surrendered during the encounter.
 
 
  gang member shot dead
 
 The prized catch was  , an important member of dreaded dacoit Babuli Kol’s gang after a fierce encounter in dense   forest of   district.
 
 Carrying a cash reward of Rs 25,000 on his head, Giyalal was found lying injured with gunshot wounds during combing operation after the encounter.
 
 Another major breakthrough was reported from Shamli where Akbar, an active member of Muqeem Kala gang with an exhaustive criminal history, was shot. Carrying a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on his head,   succumbed to gunshot wounds in the ambush.
 
 Two wanted criminals were also arrested in Gautum Budh Nagar following an exchange of fire with police and two firearms and ammunition were recovered from them.
 
 Among the 34 criminals arrested and two killed, 14 carried cash rewards on their heads ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000.
 
