PANAJI: The directorate of education (DoE) has received a surge of applications to start new   and Marathi-medium primary schools, but officials are treading carefully in those cases where permissions are being sought even without the special state grants that regional language schools are eligible for.

  
  
 
 Sources said that some applicants have expressed their eagerness to open a Konkani or Marathi-medium primary school even if no state grants are extended to them.
 
 DoE officials are worried that this could act as a backdoor entry for English-medium primary schools, as the institutions, after getting permission to open the school, may switch their medium of instruction at a later stage.
 
 Officials are worried that, if a school starts without grants, it will be under no obligation to continue teaching in a regional language and are therefore set to give preference to schools that are counting on state grants to operate.
 
 Educational bodies and trusts that want to start English-medium primary schools have to clear a number of criteria. Mainly these schools should not be in proximity to regional language government or aided primary schools so as to rule out eating into their student share. For those who want to open Konkani or Marathi-medium primary schools, the state has relaxed this distance criteria. Additionally, Konkani and Marathi primary schools also get special grants per child to operate.
 
 As a result of this policy, between 2012 and 2016, over 90 regional language primary schools were allowed to begin operations. However, no English-medium school was given clearance due to the ongoing row over grants to English-medium primary schools.
 
 For the academic year 2018-19, DoE has received 61 applications to open new primary schools in the state. Of these, 24 applications are from educational institutions and trusts to open Konkani-medium schools, 14 to start Marathi-medium schools, seven to begin Urdumedium institutions and one to open a Sindhi language school.
 
 Another 15 institutes and trusts have sought permissions to open English-medium schools from June 2018.
 
