THANE: Municipal comm
 issioner Sanjeev Jaiswal is working on tapping non-conventional source of energy to help achieve   control inside civic buildings. Plans are being discussed to exploit the geothermal energy (temperature variation under the water bodies in the city) to provide ambient temperature in the civic buildings depending on the season.

 The system, prevalent in several European countries including Spain, involves tapping non-conventional eco-friendly sources for cooling or heating a premises, probably as a replacement for the otherwise power guzzling AC systems. The project, if found feasible in Thane, will provide abundant supply of cool air in summer and warm air in winter to buildings located close to the water body where this system could be implemented.
 
 As per the plans, water beneath the   top in the city which is usually between 4-10 degrees lower or higher than the surface depending on the season. The idea is to tap this temperature variance through water in the adjoining structures through a network of pipes to blowers installed in the structures.
 
 “The system will entail a loop of pipes filled with water. One end of the pipe network will be submerged under the lake while the other will be routed to the desired areas in buildings location around the water body. The pipes will have adequate insulation when out of the water to prevent any temperature fluctuation during transmission to the blowers installed in the buildings,” informed a civic official requesting anonymity.
 
 These blowers will have a fan that will blow air over these pipes which will in turn push the hot or cold air in the respective areas depending on the season. 
 
 The project will require minimal electricity as compared to the conventional ones in use and the quantum of its feasibility will soon be studied by a panel of experts soon.
 
 “While in winter, the water at the surface is usually cold and beneath is warm which is opposite during summer when the surface is warm and the waterbed is cooler. At times, the variance in temperature is as high as 4-18 degrees. We will tap this variance to achieve temperature inside public buildings. A study will be undertaken to gauge the viability of the project if undertaken as a brownfield or Greenfield one,” informed an official.
 
 As a pilot project, the administration plans to implement the project at Kacharali lake besides the civic headquarters at Pachpakhadi. A senior official from the administration said they were expecting help from the Spanish experts to help check the feasibility of the project.
 
 The administration presently spends a notable amount of money on its power bills which could be reduced if this system is replicated, said officials. 
 
 
