TIRUVANNAMALAI: A group of villagers in   on Wednesday beat to death a 65-year-old woman from Chennai, mistaking her for a child-lifter, and left her four relatives with grievous injuries, the police said. 

  The incident occurred around 11am at Athimur village when the deceased, Rukhmani of Pallavaram, and her relatives S Mohankumar, 45, M Chandrasekaran, 33, who is settled in Malaysia, K Venkatesan, 52, and R Gajendran, were going to their family temple in Thambikottan Paarai. They also planned to visit the Muthumariamman temple in the neighbouring village of Kaliyam village 
 
  A police team arrived and took the five people to a hospital in Athimur where doctors declared Rukhmani dead on arrival. Chandrasekaran and Gajendran were referred to   where they are battling for life, while Mohankumar and Venkatesan are at the   in Tiruvannamalai. The police later picked up 33 men and 10 women, all natives of Athimur village, for questioning in connection with the incident. 
 
 
 
 Sources said the victims were natives of Sathanur in Tiruvannamalai district. While a few family members had settled in Malaysia, the others had gone to Chennai where they had migrated in search of employment several years ago.
 
 “They reached Sathanur late on Tuesday evening and stayed overnight in a relative’shouse.From there,they started to the temple today (Wednesday morning),” said a police officer quoting Venkatesan, one of the victims.
 
 A preliminary inquiry report, submitted by Polur tahsildar M Thiyagarajan, said that the five had come in a car bearing registration number TN 07 AT 9504. On the outskirts of Athimur, they stopped the car and asked an elderly woman, who was sitting with her grandchildren Janashruthi,4, andUdhrashri, 3, directions to go to the temple. In the meantime, Rukhmani struck up a conversation with the children and gave them chocolates that one of her relatives had brought from Malaysia, said the report.
 
 However, suspecting that they were part of a gang involved in child trafficking, Janashruthi’s grandmother raised an alarm. A group of villagers swarmed around the car and questioned them and started to attack them.
 
 Mohan Kumar gotout and even showed his passport and Malaysian driving licence to the villagers and tried to explain the reason they had come there. But the villagers were not in a mood to listen, dragged them out and rained blows on them, Venkatesan told the police from his hospital bed.
 
 A little later, the five people managed to escape from the villagers and sped away in the car. However, Siva, a photographer and the father of Janashruti and Udhrashri,telephonedhisfriends and told them that a gang tried to kidnap his daughters. They had escaped and were heading towards Athimur in a car, he said. Following this, the villagers gathered in large number and rained stones at the car. They pulled the occupants out of the car and beat them up.
 
  superintendent of police R Ponni said a detailed inquiry was going on. The SP, addressing media persons, also urged the public not to fall for rumours and advised them to hand over to the police anyone found wandering aimlessly.
 
 This the third such incident near Vellore in less than a month. On April 22, a 19-year-old was stoned to death and on April 29 a 40-year-old man was beaten to death.
 
 
 
