NOIDA: The agency to build the international airport at Jewar will be appointed by July this year and the foundation for the project be laid by 2018-end, the chairman of  , Prabhat Kumar, was learnt to have told chief secretary Rajive Kumar on Monday.

 The state government, meanwhile, has instructed Gautam Buddh University to prepare the   report for the project within two months.
 
 Senior officials at YEIDA said the developer was expected to be finalised once the university submitted its report and the environment impact assessment was ready.
 
 “These should happen by July this year. The foundation should be laid before 2018-end and the project will start,” said a senior YEIDA official. 
 
 Officials said PricewaterhouseCoopers had been tasked with preparing the Techno-Economic Feasibility Report (TEFR) for the project and the firm expected it to finish by March this year.
 
  PCW has also been asked to prepare the bid documents to select the developer besides finalising the master plan and the financial model.
 
 Sources said the first phase of the airport project was expected to cost nearly Rs 2,000 crore.
 
  The airport is likely to be developed over the next 5-6 years at a cost of around Rs 15,000 crore to Rs 20,000 crore. Once complete, the international airport is expected to cater to 30-50 million passengers a year.
 
 Chief secretary Kumar said he had directed officials to consider the airport project a “top priority”.
 
 “We have discussed how the project can be fast-tracked and the timelines set,” he said. “I have also asked officials to remove any roadblocks that might come in the way of the project besides putting into place any infrastructure project linked to the airport in a time-bound manner. The proposed airport must not face any delays.”
 
 The ministry of civil aviation had on June 24 last year cleared the decks for the international airport at Jewar. The site, too, has been granted clearance by the steering committee for greenfield airports formed by the ministry.
 
 
