MADURAI: Two spectators were killed and around fifty injured during the famous Siravayal manjuvirattu in Thirupathur block in   district on Tuesday. The incidents happened outside the game area, when a bull ran amok and attacked the spectators.

 The deceased have been identified as M Ramanathan, 45, of   near Karaikudi and P Kasi, 45 of Thikoor in Pudukottai district. Police said some unidentified people had unleashed the bulls outside the arena. The bulls gored Ramanathan and Kasi to death.
 
 Manjuvirattu is a bull-taming event, which involves unleashing of several bulls into a large un-barricaded area with several men trying to tame them.
 
 People from different parts of   assemble in Siravayal on Kaanum Pongal day to witness the event, which has been a tradition for more than 400 years. However, after the ban on the bull-taming sports was lifted last year, the event was held under strictly controlled conditions. This time the bulls were released through the vadivasal (a narrow passage) into the arena one after another, as it happens in jallikattu.
 
 Because of the much awaited Alanganallur game with prizes worth lakhs of rupees happening on Tuesday, the Siravayal game recorded a poor turnout with just 52 bulls registering between 6 am and 10 am. Among them four bulls were rejected.
 
 BJP leader Tamilisai Soundarajan and DMK MLA K R Periyakaruppan attended the event. This time the number of bull tamers was also low with less than 50 bull tamers registering for the event. The Siravayal game had never recorded a turnout of less than 500 bulls so far. Forty-eight bulls ran through the 100 meter strip without being caught. About twenty bulls were brought after registration time, and a few among these bulls escaped from their tamers and entered the spectators, injuring many, including Ramanathan and Kasi. Both of them died on the way to hospital. Many were treated in a clinic at the venue.
 
 Sivaganga district collector G Latha, told TOI that the game at Siravayal was conducted as per the directives of the apex court and the Tamil Nadu government and no violation of rules was reported within the marked arena. The event was monitored on a minute-by-minute basis by the sub collector and revenue staff.
 
 Sivaganga district police superintendent T   said cases would be registered against the owners of the bulls, which had caused the deaths. It may be recalled that a spectator S Kalimuthu, 19 of Dindigul was killed in the jallikattu held in   in Madurai on Monday.
 
 
