UDAIPUR: Rajya Sabha member and secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sabha K K   said that the ‘politics of hate’ of BJP and RSS is the reason for mass lynchings that had taken place across the country. “Some 30 such incidents of violence against the minorities have taken place in several states and in most of the incidents, the suffering families have effectively not received any relief,” Ragesh said while speaking to media persons. 

 The parliamentarian, who was part of a team of 27 delegates of the ‘Bhoomi Adhikar Andolan’, came to Udaipur on Sunday and held a public hearing at Gujarat Samaj Bhawan here. “Hate violence is in the name of cow slaughter or religion and at many places, people and police tried to criminalize the victims, even police has refrained from taking stringent action against the wrongdoers and they act at the will of the ruling party,” Ragesh said. 
 
 The team had also gone to Alwar and met victim Pehlu Khan’s family and even spoke to the authorities. “Secular forces have to come together to battle communal clashes taking place. Unfortunately, the government which should be resisting such incidents is, on the contrary, aiding them. We will definitely put up cases before the parliament,” he said. 
 
 The delegation which is compiling a fact-finding report on these incidents would submit it to the parliament in the coming days, Ragesh informed the media. On Sunday, the delegation heard grievances of people who had been sufferers of such incidents. Rashida Begum, wife of  , a union leader who died in   in June last year, allegedly after being beaten up by sanitation workers also met the delegation. She claimed that none of the promises that the authorities had made including granting job to one of the dependents in the family or monetary assistance had been fulfilled. Some of the members of minorities complained that police had falsely implicated them in cases related to communal tension whereas most of them were not even present at the spot.
 
 
