NAGPUR: Two months after receiving complaint from the   ( ), the   police have registered offence against 35 city bus conductors who were dismissed in the ticketing money siphoning case. The Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections applied in the case have raised a few eyebrows, cops will not arrest the conductors till investigations are complete.

 Police registered the offence against the conductors under section 120 (b) and 408 of the IPC on Thursday. Senior advocate Shreerang Bhandarkar said police should have applied sections 420, 406, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC. “Section 408 is for breach of trust. The case is totally different. Also, the conductors should be arrested as the case is very serious and an A non-bailable offence,” he said.
 
 Senior PI Hemant Kharabe told TOI that IPC section 420 can be applied only after detailed investigation. “Charge sheet will be filed in the court after investigation. Further action, including arrest, will be taken as per the court’s directives,” he said.
 
 As per information provided by the NMC, 35 conductors had adopted a unique modus operandi to allegedly swindle ticketing money. The conductors had with them 63 cash cards issued in the name of passengers. They used to get the cash cards recharged at a dummy machine available with the office of NMC’s integrated bus transport manager — Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd (DIMTS). The conductors then used to issue these cash cards to passengers who would pay them in cash. The conductors used to pocket the amount as ticketing machines have no system to read transactions done through cash cards.
 
 The conductors belonged to two private agencies — Unity Security Force, and Security and   (SIS) — appointed jointly by the NMC’s city transport committee and DIMTS. The irregularities occurred between July 1, 2017, and November 15, 2017. 
 
 The city transport department investigated the case and removed all the conductors from service in December 2017. Neither the NMC nor DIMTS and two private agencies were ready to lodge complaint with the police.
 
 TOI was the first to highlight the case on January 1. NMC lodged a complaint with the police in January first week. Whenever inquiries were made regarding the case, Sitabuldi police would say investigation was underway following which offence would be registered. Chairman of city transport committee Bunty Kukde took regular follow-up from the police related to the case.
 
 THE ACCUSED CONDUCTORS
 
 Mohammed Irshad Mohammed Javed, Sandeep Raut, Vaibhav Titarmare, Sachin Ganvir, Swapnil Moon, Harshal Nimbalkar, Pankaj Mendhe, Vishal Raut, Dhiraj Gajghate, Sachin Shembekar, Rajesh Sarode, Shrajendra Bodhke, Amol Shrikhande, Pravin Kalbandhe, Vilas Sonkusre, Yashwant Khobragade, Ritesh Chiwre, Dipak Somkunwar, Arvind Golait, Mangesh Shende, Vijaykumar Kanojia, Bhupesh Waghmare, Santosh Yadav, Ashish Bahade, Vijay Trivedi, Ajay Gupta, Kamlesh Patil, Umesh Kute, Dharmendra Kale, Anil Dahake, Sandip Patil, Kamlakar Kodawate, Sagar Bibhe, Suraj Bagde and Mahendra Bhajikhaye
 
 
