INDORE: A local sessions court on Friday acquitted   in the sensational   murder case that shook Indore in 2015.

 
 Special judge   found ‘serious flaws’ in the investigation carried out by the police that failed to prove beyond doubt Bairagi had killed Kavita, cut her body in six pieces, before disposing it of in a nullah at Teen Imli Square, where it was found on August 26, 2015.
 
 The charged drama was witnessed in the district court as the judgment was pronounced. Enraged over the acquittal, the victim’s family termed the verdict ‘unfair’ and demanded a retrial.
 
 The defense lawyer also told reporters that if government wanted to find Kavita’s killer, a CBI probe should be instituted.
 
 Bairagi, who has been in jail for nearly 30 months, walked free into the arms of his wife and two sons accusing the police of framing him to divert attention of people from an illegal rally in front of the high court that brought criticism on the law enforcers, a day before he was arrested.
 
 
 
 
 
 Judge Dwivedi came down heavily on the police for lopsided investigation and sent a copy of the verdict to the director general of police for issuing guidelines for future probes and taking requisite action against erring policemen. 
 
 Police had arrived at the conclusion that Kavita had gone to collect her kurta that she gave Bairagi’s wife to stitch on August 24, 2015 – the day she went missing. Bairagi took her to a flat in Musakhedi, 6-7 km away, to make corrections in the kurta.
 
 Here, he tried to impose upon her and when faced with resistance, hit her head with an iron pipe killing her. He then stabbed her and cut her body parts, before disposing them at the nullah using her scooter. He later parked the scooter at Navlakha Bus stand and fled.
 
 The police failed to follow procedures in evidence collection and could not establish that Bairagi was in any way linked to the murder or the disposal of the body.
 
 The judge also took serious exception to prosecution’s attempt to malign the character of Bairagi’s wife in a bid to weaken her testimony. The prosecution’s move was "unwarranted and condemnable”, the judge said.
 
