MOHALI: After municipal corporation (MC) transferred the tainted   catching team leader   on suspicion of connivance with dairy owners, the new team members have lodged a complaint with   Kulwant Singh alleging that the councillors force them to release the cattle, which are caught. Taking cognizance of the complaint, Singh during the recent   house meet, had proposed to name the councillors, who allegedly force the stray cattle   to release the caught cattle.

 The house unanimously approved the proposal and agreed to name the councillors accused of getting the release of the caught cattle in the complaint.
 
 The entire exercise of MC to curtail the stray cattle menace turns futile as it fails to take immediate action to start the cattle catching activity. Many residents, especially from sectors adjoining villages, have made repeated complaints with the MC regarding the stray cattle invading the parks outside their houses.
 
 Bobby Kamboj, BJP councillor said, “It is pain for the residents of   village as maximum number of dairies is located there. Many councillors force the MC team to release the caught cattle on the way. I support the move to name the councillor, who intervened in the working of the MC stray cattle catching team.”
 
 Singh said, “It has been observed that the councillors in the meet agree not to interfere in the working of the stray cattle catching team. However, afterwards they again force them to release the caught cattle. To stop this practice, we will now name the councillor who calls MC staff to release the caught cattle and submit his name in written complaint with MC. Then, house will take suitable action as per the law.”
 
 However, in a first of its kind,   Municipal Corporation (MC) has conducted the census of total dairies operating in the villages and the number of cattle in the dairies. To regulate the stray cattle, notices have been sent to 166 dairy owners. They have been directed to control the cattle owned by them or face action.
 
 The notices have been sent under section 323 (C) and 324 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act 1976, said MC joint commissioner Avneet Kaur. She said, “The notices have been sent as a warning to the dairy owners as they have been allegedly leaving their cattle in the open to graze after milking. The stray cattle have become a menace in the society.” She also added that 166 dairy owners have been identified under MC limit and around 1,908 cattle have been counted.
 
 
