JAIPUR: Rajasthan government has amended the Rajasthan Technical Universities Act by making it mandatory to have a minimum of 10-year experience as professor in a university or college to apply for the post of vice-chancellor. It also restricts the appointment of bureaucrats for the top post. 

 Earlier, the criterion was 'an experienced academician', which led to a few inexperience candidates being appointed as VCs. The amendments were made in tune with the   guidelines, says a state higher education official.
 
 The rule says that no person shall be eligible to be appointed as V-C unless he is a distinguished academician in the field of technical education having a minimum of 10 years experience as professor in the university. Soon the state will hire VC for the newly formed   technical university aim to shed the load of  . The BTU will have 35 affiliated engineering colleges while the RTU will have 74 engineering colleges affiliated with it.
 
 "The appointment of the VC will be strictly made under the new rules," said education department official. The recruitment for the top post of the university will start. RP  , former VC of RTU says that amendment is a step towards fulfilling transparency and taking accountability. "It would have been better had the rules giving weight to research work leaving no space for mediocre to govern the university. I think the rule will also encourage the able candidates to apply for top post," said Yadav.
 
 The move for amending the act came after state faced the embarrassment over the appointment of a teacher JP   as the vice chancellor of  . His appointment was challenged in the court which directed Singhal to step down citing his poor experience.
 
 Thereafter, the state has started amending the university acts by injecting the clause of 10 years' experience for candidates. So far, amendments were made in 16 varsities. Meanwhile, the syndicate of Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Rajasthan Sanskrit University has also passed a resolution of 10 years' experience criterion in the syndicate meeting held recently. The university officials viewed that state had not amended the rule for the Sanskrit university which suffered during the 6 year tenure under Vinod Shasrti who is not even an academician.
 
 
