MARGAO: Shadow Council of Margao (SCM) on Saturday issued a 15-day deadline to the   (MMC) to initiate immediate action into the waste collection ‘fraud’, discovered by them, to the tune of Rs six lakh per month in six wards of  . 

 The group also accused the MMC of “siphoning off taxpayers money’ through dubious schemes. They said that if their demands were unfulfilled, they would agitate before the MMC building and also opt for legal course of action.
 
 SCM convenor   told reporters that they have already written to the director of municipal administration and the MMC chief officer seeking a vigilance inquiry into the ‘scam’ as well as the termination of the memorandum of understanding (MOU) signed by the MMC with the agency, Bapu Environmental Social Services Organisation, and the recovery of excess payments made to the agency.
 
 “The MMC has engaged the agency for waste collection in six wards of Fatorda without following proper codal procedure. The 45 workers that the agency is supposed to provide are not working in the six wards. However, the agency had billed the council for 45 workers,” said Coutinho.
 
 Coutinho said that according to information obtained under the Right To Information (RTI) Act, there exists two lists of workers, one certified by the MMC supervisors and another provided by the agency. “On comparison, glaring difference were observed in both lists with the names of workers being different. Hence, one can conclude that the MMC is paying workers who have not actually worked for the municipality. Over Rs 22 lakh has been paid till date to the agency. The submission of the agency’s wage register confirms that while workers engaged were paid only Rs 7,000-8,000 per month, the MMC has been paying the contractor Rs 15,000 per month per worker,” he said.
 
 “We also want to bring to the notice of town and country planning (TCP) minister   that Goan workers who have been working at the MMC for over a decade are getting paid just Rs 387 per day while non-Goan workers are being paid Rs 500 per day,” said the group’s member, Radha Kavlekar.
 
 
