TRICHY: The idol wing   of Tamil Nadu has retrieved two stolen bronzes of King   and his queen Lokamadevi from the Calico museum in Ahmedabad in Gujarat on Tuesday. The antique statues of Big Temple in   worth several crores of rupees would be brought back to Tamil Nadu by an idol wing team wing on Thursday.

 The idol wing, led by inspector general of police A G Pon Manickavel carried out investigations with authorities at the museum managed by the Gautam Sarabhai Foundation on Tuesday. Police said evidences collected by the team during three months of investigation proved that the statues kept in the museum were stolen from the UNESCO-tagged world heritage Brigadeeswarar or Big temple in Thanjavur more than five decades ago.
 
 The wing estimated the value of the two statues measuring 74cm tall at more than Rs 100 crore in the international market considering it is a Panchaloha (made of five metals, including gold) and in view of its antiquity value.
 
 Investigation into the theft of the antique idols had gained prominence after the team visited the temple in March. 
 
 Previously, a former minister for Hindu religious and charitable endowment (HR&CE) V V Swaminathan had filed a case in the Madras high court about the missing statues but the court dismissed his plea to trace and bring them back to Tamil Nadu, in November 2016.
 
 Preliminary investigation into the case was carried out by the deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Venkataraman after he lodged a complaint with the Thanjavur police.
 
 Following the investigation, the team accused unnamed higher officials of the temple of complicity in the theft of the rare idols. The team alleged that the temple officials had moved the statues through Rao Bahadur Srinivasa Gopalachari in Kabisthalam in Thanjavur and sold them to Gautam Sarabhai in Chennai for several crores of rupees.
 
 Singapore-based NGO, India Pride Project, which is working for the retrieval of stolen statues of Indian temples lauded the idol wing team for its efforts to bring back the stolen bronzes. “Calicos museum has some very beautiful Chola objects with them. It is high time they should reveal them. It will help us find out how these brilliant beautiful bronzes went out of Tamil Nadu at that point of time. If the idol wing has details of these dealers and robbers, we can go back and retrieve many more stolen idols from Tamil Nadu,” said its co-founder, S Vijaykumar on Wednesday.
 
 He also said that all these museums would have documents with them to prove how they acquired these objects.
 
 It may be recalled that idol wing had pointed out the missing of 11 more antiques besides the theft of Panchaloha idols of Rajaraja Chola and Lokamadevi.
 
 
