KOLKATA: No outsider should be allowed into the city on Saturday, the eve of  , and a close watch should be kept on social media to ensure no provocative post or comment appears: this was chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s strict instruction to police, who were told to make sure no clashes—like those on   in parts of Bengal-—marred the celebration on Sunday.

 Banerjee, who convened an urgent meeting in   on Thursday immediately after arriving from New Delhi, directed the police to act tough on public display of weapons by rallyists. They have been told to immediately cancel permission for any religious congregation if its members brandish weapons or don’t follow the permitted routes.
 
 
 The CM’s instructions came after senior police officers told her all the clashes on Ram Navami were the result of rallyists not following the permitted routes and attempting to barge into minority-dominated neighbourhoods, instigating violence. The CM, sources said, was also told the   images revealed that most of the trouble-makers were not locals. On receiving this information, Banerjee directed police to monitor the permitted routes effectively and disallow any procession if it tries to stoke passions by any means. To accompany the rallies from the very beginning, the police will video-shoot the entire episode.
 
 The state has already banned display of weapons in processions. The chief minister again directed the DGP to instruct all the superintendents of police (SPs) to take strict action—they are allowed arrests—against those found carrying offensive weapons. They can be booked under non-bailable charges, such as joining unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapons, rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race. A December 20 notification, which banned public display of weapons in the city for the entire 2018, came into effect on January 2. The notification “prohibit(s) any person from carrying swords, spears, bludgeons, or otherwise offensive weapons in any public place... for the preservation of the public and public safety”. The notification specifies certain exemptions, but religious processions are not among them. Should they feel any procession can lead to trouble, the police can pre-empt a clash by cancelling its permission.
 
 Social media cells attached with the Intelligence Branch and city police have been keeping an eye on the social media. The police said they would use their own handles to refute any rumours but if need be, the perpetrators would be booked.
 
 Last year, at least six persons were arrested and three FIRs registered at Posta, Entally and Bhowanipore police stations for rioting, armed with deadly weapon, unlawful assembly and promoting enmity between different group and under provisions of the Arms Act. In all these cases, the video evidence was submitted to court to bolster the charges.
 
