Pune: The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in New Delhi, on Monday, directed a stay on its Mumbai bench’s ex parte order of March 13, which had restrained Pune developer DS Kulkarni and his family members from mortgaging or selling their immovable and movable properties. The tribunal’s Mumbai bench had also directed the Bombay and National Stock Exchanges (BSE/NSE) as well as the Securities and Exchanges Board of India (Sebi) to stop trading of DSK Developers Limited’s equity shares. This was in response to a petition filed by the Central government’s Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) regarding a probe against Kulkarni — also known as DSK — and his wife, Hemanti, for cheating depositors of crores of rupees. DSK’s son Shirish, who is named as one of 16 respondents in the SFIO’s petition, moved a company appeal against the ex parte order before the tribunal’s principal bench in New Delhi and the same was heard on Monday by a bench of NCLT chairperson SJ Mukhopadhaya and member (judicial) Justice Bansi Lal Bhat. “Until further orders, the operation of the impugned (under challenge) order dated March 13, 2018 shall remain stayed. The tribunal will not proceed with the company petition on the basis of the leave granted to the respondents,” the New Delhi bench said. The matter has been posted for hearing before a larger bench on May 11. DSK’s lawyer Chinmay Inamdar said, “The NCLT’s stay order comes as a relief. We will now try to secure bail for our clients at the next hearing before the special court in Pune on April 12.” DSK and Hemanti are currently lodged in the Yerawada jail and their bail plea is pending before the special court for Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act. Lawyers representing Shirish before the New Delhi bench had submitted that the tribunal had no suo motu jurisdiction to grant leave to the respondents ie. Union of India through SFIO and others, to enlarge the scope of the relief in absence of a petition for amendment. The New Delhi bench ordered, “Let notices be issued on respondents by speed post. Requisites along with process fee, if not filed, be filed by tomorrow i.e. April 10. If the appellant provides the e-mail address of respondents, let notice be also issued through e-mail.” The bench gave two weeks time to the appellant to file a certified copy of the Mumbai bench’s impugned order.