BENGALURU: Not to be outdone in latching on to every opportunity that could translate into votes, the   and   are competing against each in demanding the Bharat Ratna be conferred on Shivakumar Swami, the 111-year old pontiff of the Siddaganga Mutt.

 Chief minister Siddaramaiah, out of the blue, shot off a letter to Prime Minister   last week seeking the award for the Siddaganga seer, popularly known as ‘walking God’. Former CM and BJP leader S M Krishna had written to the PM about a month ago on the same issue. Several other leaders including some from JD(S) are now singing from the same hymn book.
 
 So what set off this clamour? Speculation was rife that the BJP-led central government was toying with the idea of conferring the award on the pontiff ahead of assembly elections in a bid to woo the Lingayat community. “To pre-empt such a move, the Congress wrote to Modi recommending the pontiff’s name for the award,” party sources said.
 
 
  
  
 
 The two national parties have been in a rat race to appease Lingayats. The community comprises about 17% of the state's population and how it votes will be decisive in the upcoming assembly polls. The community has been a strong base for the BJP. The ruling Congress has already tried to churn the caste cauldron by assuring minority status for the Lingayats. The thinking in Congress circles is that if it can manage to lure at least 10% of the community votes, it can put up a good show in the upcoming polls.
 
 However, some experts feel this strategy could well boomerang on the Congress since anger is brewing within the community. The seer himself was snared in the separate religion issue late last year when a Lingayat woman seer, Mathe Mahadevi, accused him of changing his stand on the issue after BJP leaders promised him the Bharat Ratna.
 
 The Siddaganga mutt has always had special significance in Karnataka politics. In 2008, BJP chief B S Yeddyurappa had commenced his campaign from the Siddaganga mutt and went on to form BJP’s maiden government in Karnataka. Former Congress president   and Modi have shared a dais with Shivakumar Swami in the past. This time too, AICC president   and Modi are expected to share the dais with Shivakumar Swami at some point in their campaign.
 
 Although the JD(S) relies entirely on a Vokkaliga vote bank, it conferred the state’s highest civilian award, the Karnataka Ratna, on the seer on his 100th birthday during the H D Kumaraswamy-led JD(S)-BJP coalition government in 2007. “The unprecedented act of BJP and Congress leaders to derive political mileage in the name of the seer has not only lowered the profile of the seer and the mutt, but also of the country’s highest civilian award,” said  , a JD(S) leader.
 
