Nagpur: City orthopaedic Dr Sushrut Babhulkar is used to congratulatory messages pouring in after successful surgeries, but Saturday was different. 

 “After TOI published the news of tiger   being fitted with a prosthetic limb, I have been getting messages from Pune, Mumbai, Kolkata and many cities from South India,” said Dr Babhulkar. 
 
 As the frenzy around him settles, the orthopaedic has set his sight on the ultimate aim. “If all goes well, Sahebrao should be walking on all four paws in a year,” he said. 
 
 His affinity with Sahebrao began on a Sunday afternoon in mid-December last year during a family visit to the Gorewada Rescue Centre. “We saw various animals there including a leopard and even two or three tigers, but when I approached Sahebrao’s enclosure everything else was forgotten. I had seen the gigantic Jai (a missing tiger) but the size of this creature astounded me,” recalled Babhulkar. 
 
 But the ‘fan-boy’ moment ended the moment Sahebrao stood up. “He limped. It broke my heart to see this majestic animal walking in such a manner and at that very moment I decided that something has to be done,” he said. 
 
 As Sahebrao came closer, Dr Babhulkar sensed that something else was wrong. “He was growling in pain and not because of human presence,” he said. And the cause of this pain, is the first challenge Dr Babhulkar has to deal with before even thinking of the prosthetic limb implant. 
 
 “The pain could be because swelling of veins as the limb was cut by poachers’ crude trap, or it could be due to presence of a phantom limb (sensation that missing limb is still attached) which 80% of individuals in such cases feel,” he said. 
 
 Now Dr Babhulkar will work with the veterinary team and try to pinpoint the exact cause of pain and treat it. He estimates that it could take up to six months for this.
 
 The prosthetic limb will look exactly like the tiger’s paw but still the big cat may not like it. “Sahebrao is bound to tear it off because it is not a natural thing. We will have to make maybe four such limbs and fix it again and again. Sahebrao will take time accept the attachment,” said Dr Babhulkar.
 
 “When Sahebrao was found injured in the jungle, his creatine level was 28 (normal is four) and yet he survived with the help of veterinarians,” said Dr Babhulkar.
 
 The orthopaedic is now looking forward to regular visits to his favourite patient and seeing him walk on all fours again. “It will be a sight to behold — The biggest tiger in India, standing tall and graceful,” said Dr Babhulkar.
 
 
