PATIALA: The National Investigation Agency ( ) wants to shift the men accused of targeted killings in Punjab, to   in Delhi. It filed an application before the designated court at Mohali for the shifting, stating there was a threat to their life in Punjab’s jails.

 The agency said that the central government had received intelligence inputs about a threat to the life of the 10 men who have been arrested so far.
 
 
 All the suspects have been kept at different jails of Punjab, with UK national Jagjit Singh   being lodged at the Nabha high security jail.
 
 Another UK national Taljit Singh alias Jimmy has been sent to   district jail and is at the Amritsar jail on a transfer warrant.
 
 COURT EXTENDS REMAND OF ACCUSED TILL MARCH 5
 
 NIA also filed a 100-page report before the court regarding its investigations in support of another application moved earlier for a 90-day-extension for filing of the charge sheet against the accused in three different cases registered against them.
 
 Judge Anshul Berry of the NIA court will hear the plea for grant of extension in two cases on February 14, while, it has allowed extension of the case in which Taljit Singh alias Jimmy, Ramandeep Singh Alias Bagga and   alias   are accused.
 
 The application for shifting of the accused to Tihar would be heard a day after. The court also extended the remand of the accused till March 5.
 
 Defence counsels for UK national Jagjit Singh Johal, Brijinder Singh Sodhi and Jaspal Singh Manjpur, challenged the NIA’s move for an extension, claiming that the agency could not produce any evidence to sustain its claims of the accused being involved in the targeted killings.
 
 The two contended that so far, no recovery could be made and that NIA should give ‘specific reasons’ to support its case against Johal.
 
 The defence also argued that instead of seeking a 90-day extension, NIA could have filed a ‘partial charge sheet’ and supplemented it with additional details as the investigations progressed. The counsels said NIA’s failure to file a partial charge sheet consolidated the stance that the agency could not find anything against Johal.
 
 NIA also filed a 100-page investigation report in a sealed envelope to further consolidate its case for an extension. The court stated that as the report was lengthy, it would require some time to go through the facts and fixed February 14 as the next date of hearing.
 
