KOLKATA: The state is set to put a cap on the surge fare in app cab services provided by aggregators like   and Uber, following a series of complaints by commuters over unusual rates — sometimes 10x and beyond. The state held a series of meeting with the aggregators to understand the logic behind such high surge. The state is also mulling legal options to check the ever-rising surge in app cab fare.

 Recently, state transport department wrote to   (Ola aggregator) and   seeking the copy of their policy regarding fixation of surge prices. The department particularly raised questions on the surge pricing during natural calamities — when distressed commuters need maximum humanitarian support.
 
 The aggregators claimed that the surge price is calculated by an algorithm when there is a demandsupply mismatch. If the demand is more than the supply, the fare rises. The surge price acts as an incentive for the driver-partners (cabbies) to earn greater than usual. The rates get revised depending on the demand-supply gap. Contrary to the claims by Uber and Ola — that surging lasts only for a few minutes — the high rates often persist throughout the day.
 
 “Surge pricing is not always transparent and difficult to explain. Having a maximum cap on surge pricing to the extent of 2.5-3 times may be logical as it will help protect the interest of both the operator and consumer. It is not very difficult to implement as their technology is great. There is no need for calibrated meters to be installed,” said a senior transport department officer.
 
 The transport department has randomly checked fares at different areas at different times, particularly during rain and storm. The rates go through the roof. “Surge price can’t be elastic beyond limit. There are chances of manipulating the situation by going off the system collectively to create a massive demandsupply gap and engineer a surge pricing. Here, the aggregators have a role to play,” said an official.
 
 The corporate affairs head of an aggregator said, “Surge pricing ensures that the cabby takes you to your doorstep at the most trying times. How else could you lure him to brave the storm, rain and waterlogged road to take you home?”
 
 The transport department does not buy the logic. “In the last few months, several commuters complained the surge pricing was relatively persistent even at odd hours. Uber and Ola have stopped incentives they were offering their drivers. There is no dearth of cabs as we have issued enough permits. The supply may have gone down as many drivers opted out of the service. This, seemingly, has resulted in surge pricing. Also, if there are many commuters at a particular destination, the surge is easily triggered,” the official added.
 
