TUTICORIN: The state government has ordered the shutdown of the   copper plant in  , and the future of nearly 3,000 direct and contract employees and their families is at stake. Apart from the financial implications, they are grappling with the mental agony of being treated like anti-social elements.

 “For the last three weeks, people in my neighbourhood have greeted me with ridicule. Some have asked me caustically why I chose to work for the company,” said a woman who has been in the accounts department for 10 years.
 
 
 She said her husband ran a small business and her earnings were the key for her family’s survival. “My son is studying engineering. Now that the plant has been closed, we will suffer the consequences. Some elements have spread false propaganda about the company,” she said, hoping the government might consider reopening the plant.
 
 The shutdown has come as a shock for more than 900 permanent employees. “Rumours were spread on social media and the government has acted due to pressure,” said a senior employee who has worked here for 23 years.
 
 Recalling the violence on May 22, Karthik who was in the plant’s residential quarters said the mob attacked vehicles and set them ablaze. “Women and children were in tears and fearing for their lives as they fled to the terrace when a cloud of smoke from burning vehicles engulfed our homes,” he said, adding that the protesters were threatening to kill them if they came down. “We are praying the government reopens the factory,” he said.
 
 The plight of the nearly 2,000 contract labourers is worse. Thoothukudi Sterlite All Contractors Welfare Association president S   told TOI that around 40 contractors are attached to the association with 1,500 to 2,000 contract labourers working for them.
 
 Around 500 employees are from northern states like   and   and many of them have been sent back as uncertainty shrouds the plant’s continuance. Thiagarajan said employees were asking for loans to pay the fees of their children and for urgent medical expenses.
 
 “Payment of more than ?20 crore from Sterlite is pending for contractors. Many trucks and heavy machines hired by us are also on the sealed premises of the plant. In the short run, we pray that the dues are settled and vehicles released at the earliest. Eventually, we want the plant to resume operations,” he adds.
 
