NEW DELHI: Unleashing massive fire power to retaliate against firing and shelling from across the border in   region, the   has destroyed several Pakistani posts and ammunition and fuel dumps besides killing 5-6   personnel in the last few days. BSF’s action followed home minister Rajanth Singh’s ‘five for one’ directive in view of Pakistan’s relentless ceasefire violations targeting Indian personnel and civilian population, sources said. 

 Through precision firing, BSF inflicted heavy damage on the other side while an estimated five to six Pak Rangers personnel were also killed. 
 
 The retaliatory fire was is in response to Pakistan killing at least 12 persons, including five Indian security personnel, and injuring over 60 others in Jammu since Thursday. 
 
 BSF is using long range mortar shells — also called 8mm area weapons— which can hit targets within the range of 5 to 6 km; short range mortar shells (51mm mortar shells) which can hit targets at 900 meters; and small arms like MMG, LMG, rifles in last couple of days. 
 
 Sources said over 9,000 mortar shells have been fired across the border in last four days. The assault on Pak Rangers, officials said, will continue till they stop targeting Indian personnel or shelling bordering villages. 
 
 “The situation is tense at the International Border along 190 km in Jammu and  ,” said an officer. 
 
 BSF has been given a free hand by   to use maximum fire power against Pak Rangers and Pak  . Singh is learnt to have directed BSF top brass to take down 5 Pakistani personnel if they kill one on the Indian side, sources said. 
 
 The Army is also responding to Pakistan’s firing and shelling across the Line of Control in J&K. 
 
 In a similar offensive last September, BSF used targeted fire power near the border as part of ‘Operation Arjun’ which forced Pakistan to seek peace as reported by TOI on September 27, 2017. According to sources, ISI and Pak Rangers’ officers living near the border usually facilitate infiltration and provide logistical help to anti-India operations.
 
