SELKIANA(LUDHIANA):  , 51, who was among the hostages killed in  , had gone there after taking a loan of Rs 1.5 lakh at 5% interest. Two months before his confinement by Islamic State terrorists, he called up his family and said he had saved a handsome amount for the marriage of his daughter and would return soon. 

 The family was excited and hoping to see him. But in June 2014 he called up and said that he and several other Indians had been taken hostage. He also said it could be his last call and sounded worried. The family started praying for him.
 
 The prayers remained unanswered. External affairs minister   confirmed on Tuesday that all the 39 Indians kidnapped and confined by ISIS in Mosul, Iraq, in 2014 had been killed. With this the hopes of the family of Balbir Chand of   village, on  , died.
 
 Balbir went to Iraq in 2010 to earn money. Before that, he worked as contract labour at the divisional forest department. His wife, Babli, said, "He would not get a regular salary at the forest department. We have four children, three daughters and a son. We were worried about their education and marriage. One day he told me that he was planning to go to Iraq, where he could earn good money. We all stopped him, but he did not listen. He borrowed Rs 1.5 lakh at 5% interest and reached Iraq through an agent. The initial days were tough and to help him we sent Rs 20,000. For some time he worked on farms and then got a job as a labourer in a steel company in Mosul."
 
 Balbir's brother, Haripal, said, "At the steel company he got good money. In a few years he paid off the debt and also started sending Rs 20,000 every three months."
 
 Babli said, "In April 2014, he called me up and said he had earned enough money and would return soon to plan the marriages of our daughters."
 
 Baljeet recalled, "Around 12.30pm, uncle called me up and said a militant group had taken him, along with other labourers, hostage in the factory. He said it could be his last call. I ran out of the room and made him talk to his wife. After a conversation of three minutes, the call was disconnected. We called him on the same number but someone else picked up the phone and talked in a foreign language. After that, nobody answered the calls."
 
 
