UDHAGAMANDALAM: Scotching rumours on social media with fake photos that Ooty has been experiencing sub-zero temperature of late, the   has revealed that the hill town has been witnessing a normal winter season.

 According to officials from the centre, minimum temperature in Ooty was between 3.1 and 9 degrees celsius for the past month, with 3.1 degrees celsius being recorded on December 31, 2017, in the gauge at the  , which is the official reading for   too. 
 
 The hill town has two temperature gauges: One at the Government Rose Garden monitored by the   Agriculture Research Centre and another at the   monitored by the horticulture department.
 
 Besides, they said the formation of frost in low-lying areas and marshland is common during winter. The temperature at ground-level might be lower since thermometers are placed two metres above the ground-level as per the IMD norms.
 
 “Frost formation is normal in Ooty and surrounding areas during winter season because ground temperature would always be lower than the gauge reading,” said Anitha, head of Tamil Nadu Agriculture Research Centre. “In the past 10 years, the lowest minimum temperature recorded in Ooty was 2.8 degrees celsius,” she added.
 
 Agreeing with the view, a retired horticulture official said frost tends to form in low-lying areas, grasslands and marshlands when the temperature dips below 5 degrees, which is normal during winter season. He added that winter was delayed by a week due to extended monsoon season and started only in the second week of December. He expected winter to continue till the second week of February. 
 
 L Vasantha, a local resident said, “Some days a few patches of grasslands could be seen with frost in the morning hours .The nights were cold but not severe.”
 
 The horticulture department said there have been no reports of crop damage due to frost. Minimum and maximum temperatures recorded ending 24 hours on Wednesday 8am, stood at 10 and 16 degrees celsius respectively. However, on Wednesday, strong wind and thick mist made Ooty to experience a pleasant weather. 
 
 
