HUBBALLI: Aiming to ensure prevention of rail accidents due to human failure and equip its staff with advanced knowledge, the   division of   (SWR) has launched an on-site training programme for track maintainers.

 Senior section engineers (permanent way) of various sections in Hubballi division have been provided with appropriate kits and are imparting trainings by visiting the field units where track maintainers work.
 
 Speaking to TOI,   Ranjan, senior divisional engineer, East, Hubballi, told that the on-site training is more effective as compared to the traditional classroom teachings as it involves more interaction with the field staff. “In classroom training, we provide theoretical knowledge. Many a times, human beings forget training imparted within the four walls. If we provide on-site training and demonstration regularly, every employee will become more and more competent,” he said.
 
 Rakesh Kumar Verma, senior section engineer (P Way), Hubballi, said that the training is being conducted for gangmen, keymen, gatemen for improving knowledge at the grassroots level. “Pictorial demo cards depicting measures to be adopted for trackmen’s personal safety during patrolling duties, summer precautions, monsoon precautions, winter precautions and protection of tracks while executing repair works, dos and don’ts at level crossing gates, engineering indicators and warning boards are being explained in details,” he added.
 
 Jeelani, a track maintainer, said that on-site training is more helpful as the staff is more comfortable in clearing their doubts. “They also explain with more enthusiasm by showing live instances of various issues,” he said.
 
 Mehboob Sab, another track maintainer, said that the staff gets first-hand experience as officials show them visuals. “We feel that classroom trainings take more time, but deliver less practical knowledge. Here, we are getting more practical knowledge in lesser time. However, we cannot undermine classroom trainings that put the foundation knowledge of our duties,” he said.
 
 
