JAISALMER: Expecting   season this year, plans are afoot for intensive afforestation near outpost (OP) towers at the international border to protect BSF jawans from the heat. Apart from this, hundreds of new OP towers are being constructed with new design so that they remain cool during summers, said BSF IG   at a press briefing during his visit to border areas in Jaisalmer.

 He said the campaign has been started to convert desert areas into green areas as they are expecting severe summers this year. Till now plantation was being done near headquarters and border outposts (BOPs) and now at OP towers where BSF jawans stand throughout the day and keep a watch over the border, plantation will be done to provide shade and keep the area cool. The work has been started.
 
 Paliwal said construction of new OP tower is being done and they will replace old towers. At a few temporary OP towers, wood and plywood is being used so they remain cool and comfortable. It will take 2-3 years for all the Op towers to be completed. Paliwal said availability of drinking water at BOPs is being made. He added that efforts are on to lay pipeline to connect with canals for which BSF is in continuous touch with waterworks department. Small tankers have been approved where water is supplied through tankers. Soon these tankers with 3,000 litres capacity will reach even the remotest BOPs.
 
 To solve the problem of saline water, water plants are being installed. As a pilot project this plant has been put at 68th BSF area and soon such plants will be installed in other areas. The reverse osmosis (RO) plants that are non-functional are being repaired. Water coolers and campers are also being sent to different areas.
 
 He also said that better medical facilities are being provided to protect jawans from heatstroke and rooms that are cool are being made at BOPs. Directions have been given to arrange medicines that are given during heatstroke. Even desert coolers are being put at the border and jawans have been directed to eat fruits during summer season. Better arrangements are being made to keep edible items refrigerated.
 
 To make sure that electricity supply is not disrupted for a long time during dust storm talks have been held with electricity department and directions have been given to keep generators. The officer also added early warning system has been installed to stop intrusion from across the border. Every unit has alarm system near the fence. He visited many BOPs at the border and extended Holi wishes to jawans and directed them to remain alert.
 
 
