JAIPUR: Inspired by his neighbour, who donated his eyes after his death, 24-year-old Tinku   has decided to donate his organs and signed a pledge. Now, to make others aware about   donation, he wears a helmet with a message printed on it that reads ‘Yes, I am an organ donor’. It has now becoming a trend in   region in the state, where more than 40 persons wear helmets with the same message.

 “I was keenly observing the process when eye bank officials came to my neighbour’s house for collecting corneal donations. It was quite new to me. I was really surprised to see that even after death one can do something good for the society by donating his eyes, which could bring light to other people’s lives. So I decided to donate my eyes and also my organs by signing a pledge,” said Ojha.
 
 The idea of wearing helmets with an organ donation message on it is bearing good results. “I saw a person wearing a helmet with a message of organ donation on it in February, I asked the person about it. He informed me about organ donation. Till that time I was not aware how organ donation is done. I learnt that only after doctors declared a person brain dead in a hospital, the organs of the person are harvested and transplanted into other persons with kidney, liver and heart failure. It saves lives. After that I signed a pledge of organ donation and now I wear a helmet with organ donation message to make others aware about it,” said 41-year-old Ramavtar  , a graphic designer in Kota.
 
 Panchal is one of the 40 persons wearing helmet with a message ‘Yes, I am an organ donor’. It is an initiative taken by one Kulwant  , who encourages people for eye donation and organ donation.
 
 Despite that not a single cadaver organ transplant has been conducted in Hadauti region including districts such as Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran, these people are hopeful that cadaver organ transplant will be conducted in the region soon. 
 
 “Not a single hospital had done any cadaveric organ transplant in the region. Only eyes are donated here. So, here we have taken an initiative to make people know that we have taken pledge of organ donation,” Gaur said. 
 
 He said that a lot of people ask them about the message. “When they spot us at traffic light, they ask us what this message means. We take their contact numbers and visit their houses to make them aware about importance of organ donation,” Gaur said, adding that they have so far reached up to 300 families to spread the message. 
 
 helping others live
 
 —In the state families of 27 persons have donated their organs after they were declared brain dead
 
 — 47 kidneys, 25 livers and 15 hearts harvested from 27 persons transplanted into needy patients with kidney, liver and heart failures
 
 
