HYDERABAD: In a rare case of swap transplant, two women donated their kidneys to each other’s husband at two hospitals, after their blood groups failed to match with their spouses. Billa Mallaiah, 45, from   was recently admitted to   with an urgent need for a renal transplant. While his wife,  , was willing to donate her kidney to him, the hospital could not sign her up as a donor as her A+ blood group did not match with that of her husband’s.   was tested as B+.

 
 Asimilar case was reported at   where   resident Banoth Raju was admitted for a renal transplant, but could not get his wife’s kidney for the same reason. B Sunitha’s was B+, while her 35-year-old husband was A+.
 
 When doctors at the two facilities discovered this, they soon prepared for the swap transplant – touted to be the first time in south India. “Matching blood group is most important criteria for a renal transplantation. But since Mallaiah’s blood group did not match with his wife’s, I contacted my colleagues to ask if anyone with the same blood group was willing to donate a kidney to him. Soon, I received feedback from a consultant nephrologist from KIMS Hospital, Dr E Ravi, that a couple was also unable to go through the process due to blood group incompatibility. Luck just favoured us,” said Dr N Pavan Kumar, consultant nephrologist at Deccan Hospital.
 
 After seeking permission from concerned authority, the challenge for doctors was to organise the transplant at the same time, as they were aware that any issue during one operation could affect other’s life. During operation too, doctors said they kept in touch with each other over video conference, to ensure it was success. “Both the donors and the receivers are now doing well,” said Dr S V Subramanyam, a nephrologist at Deccan Hospital While the process of swap transplant was legalised in 2014 and approved under the THOTA Act (Transplantation of Human organs), the lack of awareness within the medical fraternity has limited its implementation, say doctors.
 
 
