KOLKATA: For banker Zinia Bhattacharya and her family, it’s almost like a tradition to have the Sunday dinner at any of the popular eateries in the city. The last few Sundays, however, have been different as the family has stopped having dinner outside ever since they learnt that carcass meat, which is in circulation in the city, is also being supplied to some popular eateries.

 “I know it’s already pretty late to react, but I cannot take a chance any more. I have a small kid and I wouldn’t like him to feed on bad meat just for our pleasure. For us, Sundays now mean home-cooked food — either by me or my husband — and believe me it’s a whole lot of fun,” said Bhattacharya, a Ballygunge resident.
 
  
  
 
 The carcass meat episode has even made the youngsters, for whom weekends meant partying and dining out, prefer home-cooked food.
 
 “We changed our night-out plan and opted for a house party on Saturday night. We had a barbecue session and the main course was cooked by three of our friends as we all joined in to buy the veggies and chicken. For a change, we had no nuggets and sausages that we often had during the earlier parties,” said Harsh Agarwal, a New Alipore resident.
 
 A major section of the city, who regularly dines outside, has suddenly shifted to having dinner and lunch together with the family and friends on the weekends.
 
 The result — there were almost no queues outside some of the popular eateries on Park Street and other pockets in the city known for their cluster of restaurants in the past few weeks.
 
 “We always have an excess crowd waiting outside especially on the weekends. This scene has changed. Further, we have noticed that the orders for chicken and mutton have come down and there’s a steady growth in demand for fish and prawn,” said Nitin Kothari, owner of Peter Cat and Mocambo on Park Street.
 
 Other eateries, too, agreed over a sudden dip in footfall of the patrons, particularly on the weekends. “There has been a slight dip but we think it’s a passing phase. We have, however, taken stringent measures while acquiring the raw materials and are now buying whole chicken from the suppliers. We are cutting them at our store to ensure we provide the best quality to our customers,” said Kartick Mukherjee, chief administrator of Nizam’s at New Market.
 
 About maintaining, the quality, Anjan Chatterjee of Speciality Restaurants said: “Quality is not an accident. It is always a result of high intention, sincere effort and skilful execution, which has been my firm belief and it’s a philosophy that I have been able to successfully inculcate in my organisation.”
 
 ITC Sonar’s Atul Bhalla also spoke of how they source materials from FSSAI certified vendors to ensure strict quality control.
 
 The fiasco has also made several popular eateries to source materials from Metro Cash and Carry to ensure better quality of raw materials. “We have seen an increase in inquiries for meat from the hotel, restaurant and cafe sector who were earlier buying from other sources,” said a spokesperson of Metro Cash & Carry that supplies meat and fish to most of the big hotels and restaurants in the city.
 
