BHUBANESWAR:   president and chief minister   returned home to a rousing reception on Monday after being honoured as the ideal chief minister by the   in Pune.

 Thousands of BJD workers and leaders thronged the   much before the special flight carrying Naveen landed at 3:15 pm. Many senior leaders and cabinet ministers queued up at the airport to greet him.
 
 As Naveen emerged from the airport in a specially-decorated vehicle instead of his official car, the crowd grew restless behind the barricades on both sides of the 1 km-road from the New Airport Road to Naveen Niwas for a glimpse of their leader. The BJD supporters cheered him to which Naveen responded by waving his hand.
 
 Before leaving for his residence in a procession, Naveen paid floral tributes at the statue of his father and former chief minister Biju Patnaik. Addressing the crowd there, Naveen urged them to work towards making Odisha the no.1 state in the country. "I dedicate this award to the people of Odisha. We shall continue to strive to make Odisha the no.1 state in the country," he said.
 
 Blowing of conch shells, beating of drums and large cut-outs of party supporters greeted the chief minister as his cavalcade passed through the route. Folk artists also performed during the procession.
 
 The ruling party has made elaborate arrangements to welcome Naveen. Hoardings and banners had flooded the roads between the airport and the chief minister's residence. The MLAs especially from the nearby constituencies were asked to get supporters for the grand welcome ceremony.
 
 Hailing Naveen as the hero, the BJD workers took out rallies from the New Airport square. The commissionerate police had issued a traffic advisory a day before expecting traffic congestion. Cops had a tough time managing traffic. "It is indeed a matter of pride for Odisha. The huge turnout speaks volumes about the love people have for Naveen," said BJD vice-president Debiprasad Mishra.
 
 MIT School of Government, a unit of   with Bharatiya Chhatra Sansad conferred the honour on Naveen for his ideas of clean governance on Sunday.
 
 Political observers called the welcome ceremony a show of strength by the ruling party to promote   as it is facing a tough challenge from the BJP. Also, there were voices of dissent within the party. "With the show, the party might have signalled that Naveen is still the most popular leader in Odisha," said an analyst.
 
 Hitting out at the chief minister, BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma said the ruling party had organized the welcome ceremony to divert people's attention from genuine issues of the state.
 
