PUNE: The   and other private rankings have rated   (SPPU) to be among the best in the country. However, a look at the number of usable toilets for girls in the varsity premises paints a different picture.

 A walk around the campus highlighted the lack of clean toilets in many buildings. While some of the toilets were found locked, others were unkempt. Officials said that a proposal to install bio-toilets was in the offing and some of the toilets were locked because there were thefts of washrooms fittings.
 
 A postgraduate student of Bio-informatics department said that something needs to be done about the stench that emanates from many toilets. “While our toilets are clean, the same can’t be said about others. Plus, there is a need for more toilets near Jaykar Library and reading room for girls,” the student said.
 
 A group of students from the Competitive Exam Centre at the university said that their department has about 300 students and over 15 staff members. But somehow, only one person is overloaded with the cleaning work. “There is just one cleaning lady for the entire department. We can’t expect her to keep working round the clock. If there are 300 students and just three toilets on each floor for boys and girls each, how much can she do? The stink is unbearable, especially in the evenings,” said a   aspirant.
 
 A department official confirmed that a proposal had been sent to the authorities to allot more cleanliness staff at the department.
 
 Another problem area was the building that houses   along with various departments such as defence and strategic studies, women studies centre, department anthropology, political science and administration. Despite so many departments, there are only a few toilets — with some of them locked — in the four-storied building.
 
 “It becomes a problem when you are not feeling well and you have to look for a toilet. The departments lock their toilets to ensure people from other departments don’t use them. From the main gate to the first department, there are no toilets. More toilets are required outside the buildings too,” said another student.
 
 SPPU Registrar   said, “We are in talks with an NGO to provide bio-toilets. Initially, we had decided to install 30 toilets on the campus. Now, these will be set up in a phased manner, starting with 5 toilets. As far as cleaning staff is concerned, a contract has been outsourced and if any department specifically feels there is a shortage, then I will look into it.”
 
