PATNA: The state health department will release the   on Wednesday.

 The revised list is basically a list of generic drugs, which are provided by the state government to the government health facilities at subsidized rates.
 
 Sources in the health department said the number of drugs in the revised list has been increased from 65 to 76 in the outpatient department (OPD) of all nine medical college and hospitals in the state.
 
 “As of now, 33 medicines are being provided in OPDs in different categories of public health facilities, such as district hospitals, community health centres, primary health centres and additional primary health centres,” said a senior health department official, adding the revised list also envisages supply of drugs as per requirement of different categories of government hospitals.
 
 “With the facility-wise segregation of drug list, OPDs in district hospitals will now have 71 types of drugs, sub-divisional hospitals 58 and 50 types of drugs will be made available at community health centres, primary health centres and additional primary health centres,” the official said.
 
 Superspecialty hospitals, such as Gardiner Road Hospital, Rajendra Nagar Eye Hospital and  , will get the same number of drugs as medical college and hospitals. They will choose drugs as per their requirement from the revised list. Medical devices have been excluded from the list after the introduction of Medical Device Rules, 2017.
 
 State convenor of   (a worldwide network of people’s organizations, NGOs, social activists, civil society organizations and health professionals) Dr Shakeel said the government needs to keep a close watch on the availability of drugs in government health institutions.
 
 “As per a survey conducted by Jan Swasthya Abhiyan in 2014-15, majority of patients, who visited PHCs for treatment, had to buy drugs from the market. It was found that patients were forced to buy one or more medicines prescribed by the government hospitals from chemist shops. Nearly 20% patients could not find the prescribed drugs in the PHCs,” Dr Shakeel said.
 
 He added it was also observed that the patients were often prescribed medicines for two-three days and had to visit the facility again to get another dose of medicines.
 
 “Patients, especially daily wage workers, often do not complete the prescribed course of medicine. Medicines for chronic diseases and acute diseases are prescribed for 5-7 days and the patients are forced to visit the healthcare centre again,” he added. 
 
 
