PANAJI:   (GU), which for the first time is conducting an entrance test for admissions to its postgraduate programmes from the academic year 2018-19, will hold the exams from June 6-9.

 It will begin accepting online applications from students from May 22 onwards. The online application process for the PG courses will end on June 4. Subsequently, the ‘ranking tests’ will be held for all Goa University departments, including for students from other universities, seeking admissions at GU, the varsity has declared on its website.
 
 On June 14, the first provisional list of admission (including the waiting list) will be displayed by Goa University. 
 
 Students from this list will be able to carry out the admission process, like payment of fees, till June 18.
 
 “The ranking tests for all departments (including candidates from other universities) will be conducted in four sessions between June 6 and 9 (4 days - including Saturday, June 9, if required). The sessions will be held from 9.30am to 11am, 11.30am to 1pm, 2pm to 3.30pm and 4pm to 5.30pm,” the university has announced.
 
 Following this, on June 19, the second provisional list of admission will be displayed, and June 20 will be the last day for payment of fees for students from this second list. The final list for admissions will be displayed on June 21, and June 22 will be the last day for late admissions for semester one, after which the admission process for first year of PG programmes on GU campus for 2018 will end.
 
 Goa University is conducting an entrance test for admissions to its PG seats from 2018-19 onwards, to create a level playing field for students. The first batch of students from Goa’s only autonomous college,  , will graduate this year. The college follows a grading system, with no equivalent marks indicated in students’ marksheets. This varies from the system followed in Goa University affiliated degree colleges.
 
 When this issue was brought to the varsity’s attention, the idea of an entrance test for entry to around 900 PG seats for MCom, MA and MSc programmes at Goa University emerged. The entrance test this year by Goa University is expected to be based on the syllabus of third year of the respective graduate programme.
 
 Until 2016-17, students were provided admissions to GU’s PG programmes based on the students’ third year scores in the degree programme. This was barring a few programmes like MCA for which admissions were already held through an entrance test, as students from multiple disciplines are allowed entry to the programme.
 
 
 
 
