BENGALURU: From 123 members in the outgoing assembly, the Congress is now down to 78. The BJP, which bagged 104 of the 222 seats that went to the polls, has is within striking distance of power despite the many populist schemes launched by the Congress government led by  .

 “We did something for every section of the society and made sure no one was left out... If we do not win despite giving good schemes, programmes and governance, we do not know what else needs to be done. It is now a matter of introspection,” said a senior leader, quoting chief minister Siddaramaiah’s final speech at the Congress Legislature Party meeting held on Wednesday.
 
 In more humiliation for the party, 16 ministers, mainly social welfare A H Anjeneya, revenue Minister Kagodu Thimmappa, women and child development B Umashree, were all defeated, though their departments doled out various Bhagyas for poor and middle-class families. The only saving grace was agriculture minister Krishna Byre Gowda’s victory by 5671 votes. Byre Gowda’s ministry too was steered several schemes for farmers.
 
 Chief Minister Siddaramaiah himself was defeated by a huge margin in  , one of the two constituencies he had contested. Taking a cue from late former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa, Siddaramaiah unvieled a string of welfare schemes, many of their names suffixed with the word Bhagya (fortune or luck in Kannada) in a bid to appease the Ahinda vote bank but they failed to fetch him votes as desired.
 
 Apart from caste calculations, the party was heavily banking on Siddaramaiah government’s performance. Its campaign too focused on projecting the government as one that fulfilled promises made during 2013 polls with the slogan, Nudidante Nadediddeve (We have walked the talk).
 
 The Congress too projected its CM as a symbol of regional pride and one who implemented a number of social welfare initiatives such as Anna Bhagya and Krishi Bhagya among others. The party hoped that the strategy would help it retain power in the state,.
 
 A state-wide survey conducted by the Association for Democratic Reforms and Daksh ahead of the polls revealed that the Anna Bhagya Scheme launched in the first year of the Siddaramaiah government which promises up to 30 kg of rice to each family below poverty level (BPL) at Re 1 per kg had a largely favourable response from residents of the state. Similarly, Krishi Bhagya scheme, which aims at efficient management of rainwater to improve agriculture productivity, was also received largely positively by the state’s farmers, the study added.
 
 The findings of a report from Ernst & Young also indicated Anna Bhagya and Ksheera Bhagya were very popular among the poor and could benefit Congress. The results proved otherwise.
 
 The only solace for Congress was the much-hyped Indira Canteens in Bengaluru as the party managed to win 13 of the 26 seats that went to the polls in the state capital.
 
 
 
 
 
