KOLKATA: Thousands of exemployees and their spouses and dependants of the   of India (STC) are in for a rude shock with the company, under the Union ministry of commerce, taking a decision on Thursday to suspend the   (Retired Employees’) Medical Benefit Scheme, 1981 through which their medical bills (including hospitalization costs) were reimbursed. While a few who contacted the STC’s offices for reimbursements in the last couple of days were informed of the decision, others will come to know when they receive copies of a circular to this effect by post.

 “My 68-year-old mother is entitled to a cover of Rs 3 lakh as my father was a senior officer in STC. Recently, my mother required hospitalization and the medical expenses came to nearly Rs 2 lakh. On Friday, when I went to the STC’s office on R N  , I was told that the sum can’t be reimbursed as the board of directors have taken a decision to suspend this benefit for ex-employees and their dependants due to poor finances. Had I received any information of such plans earlier, I would have got a mediclaim policy for my mother. Now, I don’t know from where to recover the sum. When I asked for a copy of the circular, they said that it would reach my home by post,” the son of a former STC employee said.
 
 TOI is in possession of the circular (IR/04/2018) dated March 15 that states: “Based on the further issue of affordability and precarious financial position of STC, the Board of Directors, in its 619th meeting held on 05.03.2018, reviewed the scheme and considering the fact that the Corporation’s account has been classified as NPA by the banks, decided to suspend the scheme from immediate effect in respect of all retired employees, including VRS optees.”
 
 While a retired employee in his 70s called this unfair and said it would result in severe harassment and painful deaths for many, the circular stated the scheme was purely a welfare scheme exclusively funded and maintained by the internal resources of the Corporation.
 
 
