KOLKATA: Two leading experts from the UK have lent their support to the march for conservation of Kolkata’s built heritage scheduled on Wednesday. Philip Davies is a fellow of the Royal Historical Society, a heritage and planning consultant and former director of Historic  , and James Simpson is a member of numerous boards and committees in Scotland, including the Ancient Monuments Board, the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historic Monuments of   and the Edinburgh World Heritage Trust.

 Davies wondered why civic officials in Kolkata fail to recognise the worth of its built heritage. “Kolkata is one of the world’s great historic cities. Its remarkable heritage is enshrined in the very fabric of its buildings, neighbourhoods and public places. They desperately need strong statutory protection. What is happening is a scandal. The Strand Road warehouses have stood vacant and decaying on a prime central riverside site for over 50 years losing crores in potential revenue,” he said.
 
 “The buildings that once made Kolkata world-famous as ‘a city of palaces’ are threatened with crass new development. Where is the vision? Where is the strategy? It is time for action not words,” Davies added.
 
 Simpson said he was glad that a lively campaign for Kolkata’s heritage, led by a number of influential figures like writer Amit Chaudhuri, has begun.
 
 He believes Kolkata is at the crossroads which Edinburgh faced 50 years ago, having to choose between conservation and renewal. “On her visit last November, Bengal chief minister   was impressed with what she learned about Edinburgh’s tourist economy. Many have expressed the view that Kolkata could be a  , yet unlike Rajasthan and other parts of India, it has no tourism,” he said.
 
 Simpson is also of the view that cities like Kolkata, that were created in the colonial era, should be regarded as ‘shared heritage’ and the British who created it should take some responsibility. Denmark has already taken the lead in this aspect, having restored a dozen buildings in the former Danish trading post of Serampore, including St Olav’s Lutheran church.
 
 “The Asia Scotland Trust is working with owners of a few Scottish buildings in the city to set a standard by following the Danes in delivering exemplary projects,” Simpson added.
 
 Times View
 
 A city's buildings are not merely physical structures; they represent its history, its culture and its aspirations and are apointer to its financial health as well. It would be a shame if we fail to hold on to what is left of our rich architectural heritage.
 
 
