PATNA: Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Sunday started drain and   to avoid waterlogging in the city during the monsoon.

 All big and small drains, manholes and catchpits will be cleaned over the next two-and-a-half months utilizing budgetary allocation of Rs 7 crore. To begin with, PMC has started the work from New Capital circle area.
 
 Deputy municipal commissioner Vishal Anand said sanitary inspectors have been asked to ensure that safety gears, including oxygen cylinders, masks, gumboots and hand gloves are given to workers engaged in the cleaning work.
 
 “Two suction machines will be hired from a private agency at a combined rent of Rs 80 lakh. The bidding process for renting the suction machine has been initiated. The contract is expected to be awarded within the next 15 days. The suction machines are likely to be used from April 20 onwards,” Vishal said.
 
 He added, “Earlier, most of the drainage cleaning work was being done manually. However, in order to cover large area in a more mechanised way with less human involvement, the civic body has decided to adopt technology.”
 
 Sources attributed the PMC’s decision to use machines following death of two workers while cleaning a manhole near the I-T roundabout last year. The duo had entered the manhole without any safety equipment and died of asphyxiation.
 
 There is no separate storm water drainage network in Patna, which is one of the reasons why the city gets waterlogged during heavy rainfall. Vishal said PMC would identify some old drains in the city and repair them apart from constructing new drains. “The project will involve an expenditure of around Rs 3 crore,” Vishal added. 
 
 One of the most important reasons behind continuous waterlogging is reverse flow of excess water from the nullah in the upstream. This happens primarily because of clogging of the nullah due to the dumping of plastic bags and other waste material apart from encroachments on the drains where people even construct houses.
 
 “Bihar Rajya Jal Parshad framed some regulations to stringently implement efficient solid waste management under Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 and Bihar Municipal Act 2007, which envisage certain punishments and penalties against polluters. These regulations have been sent to the urban development department for approval. Waste segregation and regulating bulk generators will be part of the regulations. People will be fined anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 if they pollute the environment. FIR may also be lodged against them,” Vishal said 
 
 Apart from drains, pumping stations and sump houses also play a major role in preventing waterlogging in the state capital. These pumping stations take drain water from low lying areas to upstream areas. Currently, there are 35 pumping stations in Patna. Of them, 24 are being run by Bihar Rajya Jal Parishad, 10 by PMC and one located at Bahadarpur is owned by Bihar State Housing Board.
 
 
