THRISSUR: Thrissur, known as the cultural capital of  , is all set to host the 58th edition of the state school   that begins here on Saturday. Billed as Asia’s biggest cultural festival, the five-day event includes competitions in 231 items. Preparations for the festival touched the crescendo with the arrival of the   cup arriving in Thrissur on Thursday. 

 About 12,000 students from various schools across the state will be participating in the festival. The number is likely to go up when all appeals from participants at district level competitions are finalised. 
 
 Breaking away from its usual, there will be no cultural procession to mark the beginning of the festival this time. Instead, a visual show directed by   will be showcased at all venues.
 
 Education minister   said the decision to give trophies to all participants, instead of the earlier practice of recognizing the top winners alone, was expected to reduce unhealthy competition. “Steps have been taken to reduce the number of appeals, and experts with clean track record have been appointed as judges. Vigilance officials will be monitoring the events to reduce the possibilities of foul play,” he said.
 
 “The festival manual has been changed . New parameters for judging creativity have been evolved with the help of experts in each field,” said director of public instruction (DPI) K V Mohankumar. 
 
 The cut-off marks for the award of A grade has been hiked to 80 per cent and above, while for B grade it is between 70 to 79 per cent, C grade between 60 to 69 per cent and the D grade between 50 to 59 per cent. The practice of giving grace marks would continue, the DPI said.
 
 My Stamp programme: Postal department has come out with a new initiative titled ‘My Stamp’, in connection with the state school youth festival. Under the programme, all those associated with the festival can get a stamp sheet with their photos printed on it by paying Rs 300. Each sheet will have a theme, along with 12 general stamps costing Rs 5 each. The festival organisers have also appealed to the postal department to bring out a special stamp in connection with the youth festival, agriculture minister V S   said.
 
 
