KOLKATA: The state has witnessed a dip in   figures between January and March this year compared to the corresponding period last year, revealed the first quarter data on accidents and deaths released by the West Bengal Police.

 
  
  
 
 “There has been 15.5% less accidents during the said period compared to 2017. The dip is 18% if we compare the data with 2016, when the ‘Safe Drive Save Life’ campaign was yet to be launched in the state,” said an officer.
 
 A total of 2718 accidents were reported in the first three months this year compared to 3177 reported in the same period last year and
 
 3449 in 2016. The corresponding fatalities, too, have witnessed a downslide with 1409 fatalities this year compared to 1594 in 2017 and 1703 in 2016.
 
 Our research shows that there are specific areas which are accident prone. “Take the Jessore Road stretches between Bangur and Nagerbazar and then Airport Gate No. 1 to Madhyagram. We are working on setting up pedestrian barriers at accident prone zones. The bus bays have come up. Similarly on the  , we have plans to introduce 16 bus bays,” said an officer.
 
 The   have also taken up an ambitious plan to check road accidents by 40% by the end of this year. The plan includes identifying 40 police stations
 
 (9.5% of all police stations) that contribute to around 30% of the state’s accidents and taking actions depending on local requirements.
 
 Formally christened the ‘40 in 40 programme’, several of these police stations are located close to Kolkata and fall on important highways connecting the city to popular weekend destinations like Digha, Kolaghat and Taki. The programme has been launched this week with the senior officers sharing the details on Friday.
 
 “The plan will include both education and enforcement. We plan to increase traffic furniture that is relevant to the accident spot. We also want to increase manpower deployment and undertake intensive road engineering after joint inspections with both the   and the   officials and engineers. The SPs of each district have been asked to monitor these efforts on a priority basis,”  , ADG (traffic and road Safety), had said earlier.
 
 Officials at Bhawani Bhawan said they have gone through the records on a day-today basis in the past five years. “Just like in Kolkata, unregulated pedestrian movements have been one of the biggest obstacles. We have decided to set up pavements especially near the crossings and illuminating an entire area wherever possible. In some areas where local roads are turning into accident zones, we even proposed to set up speed breakers,” claimed a senior officer.
 
 
