KOLKATA: A day after a devastating fire ravaged  , 71-year-old fish trader   was back doing what he has been doing all life: sell fish. On Tuesday, he set up shop amidst charred debris, twisted iron bars, crumpled galvanaised sheets and rotting vegetables, delivering fish for a marriage order he had accepted in advance. 

 For others, it will take at least a fortnight to be back in business. That is the deadline set by municipality authorities to clear the debris. “The traders may have to resume business under the open sky. But what they desperately need is a space that is clear so that they can begin selling,” said Harinder Singh, chairman of the Dum Dum Municipality, after a meeting with the representatives of the market.
 
 Singh said CM Mamata Banerjee had expressed her keenness to rebuild the market at the earliest. But he recognised that would take at least a year, too long for the traders to wait. Most of them are counting their losses in the tragedy that also claimed two lives.
 
 Like Naskar, many others had orders from customers till Sunday and had stocked raw material accordingly. But the fire turned everything into ashes and has left them in ruin. “We had Rs 1.5 lakh in the cashbox. The lender had to be paid on Monday. We don’t have the cash to pay the debt now. This is what we are left with now,” said Soma Roychowdhury, pointing at piles of black coal dusts. She used to have a puffed and flattened rice shop that was razed in the blaze. 
 
 State PWD minister Firhad Hakim and fire minister Sovan Chatterjee visited the market on Tuesday and assured help of engineers and fire safety officials to rebuild the structure in a safer way. 
 
 While the municipal body is looking for ways to mobilise funds for the reconstruction, traders are wary. “Last time, it had cost them around Rs 30 lakh. Costs have doubled since then. Hopefully the state government will grant money this time,” said Biswajit Das, leader of the RSP supported union that runs the market committee.
 
 
