GANDHINAGAR: Following the announcement by the Union government that it would commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the   government is hastily chalking out plans for various activities it plans to launch on October 2 next year. The events will continue till October 2020.

 On May 2, chief minister Vijay Rupani, along with 113 members of the national committee dealing with the celebrations will present to Prime Minister Narendra Modi the detailed plans for the commemoration. The committee is headed by the PM and includes the chief ministers of all states. Also in the committee are L K Advani and representatives from across the political spectrum including Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi, and former PM Manmohan Singh. Gandhians, thinkers, and eminent persons from diverse fields also find a place in the committee. 
 
 Gujarat plans to turn the commemoration period into a significant tourism event. The Union government has already allocated Rs 150 crore for the preparatory work while the state government has earmarked Rs 25 crore for the redevelopment of the Sabarmati Ashram.
 
 A senior officer aware of the plans said: “Gujarat is the home state of Mahatma Gandhi and it has the highest number of Gandhian institutions. So the state government has planned a major celebration across the state.” All the government departments will be involved in the celebration, he said. “The state government will take up an initiative to popularize Gandhian thought among students,” he said. “The government will focus on redeveloping the Sabarmati Ashram and other Gandhian properties. The government is trying to involve all Gandhian institutions. Prime Minister Modi is likely to launch the yearlong celebration in Ahmedabad.”
 
 
 
 
 The Rs 287 crore ‘Revitalization Plan for the Sabarmati Ashram’ proposed by Narendra Modi when he was the chief minister of Gujarat is awaiting clearance from the Centre. Last year, when Modi visited the ashram to take part in events to celebrate 100 years of the ashram, it was expected that he would announce the approval of the plan. However, that announcement was not made. Thereafter, he has visited the ashram twice with foreign leaders but the project is still in limbo.
 
 The Gujarat government had submitted the revitalization plan in July 2009 to the Union tourism ministry. The plan was not approved by the UPA government at the Centre, though the state government submitted a revised version subsequently. 
 
 Several other projects such as the historic Ahmedabad-Dandi route development is yet to be completed. 
 
 
