The first edition of   15 Most Desirable Men on Television 2017 is out — and Pradeep Machiraju has won it. But there are others too who have made their mark on television and have made it to our list. 
They rule not just prime time slots, but also a piece of every TV buff’s heart. Here’s to the hotties who have made it to the first edition of Hyderabad Times 15 Most Desirable Men on Television 2017. Let’s hear it for them!
 Anchor ravi
 Claim to fame: Famous for his shows with Lasya once and Sreemukhi now, Ravi is one of the most popular anchors of Telugu television. Spontaneous and funny, Ravi pushed the envelope for suggestive humour with hit shows Pataas and Comedy Nights.
 Relationship status: Married 
 Desirability quotient: Cute, controversial and outrageous, Ravi exudes a goofy sex appeal that’s won him loads of fans.Love him or hate him, you simply cannot ignore him!
  
  
 Ali Reza 
 Claim to fame: This hottie made his Bollywood debut with Mukhbir back in 2008, but it was the soap Pasupu Kumkuma that earned him TV fame. He went on to carve a niche for himself with hit soaps like Evare Nuvvu Mohini and Maate Mantramu. 
 Relationship status: His recent fairytale wedding to his sweetheart broke a million hearts. 
 Desirability quotient: Classic Irani good looks, complete with a chiselled body and that good ol’ Hyderabadi sense of humour — what’s not to like about this dude?
  
  
 
 VJ Sunny
 Claim to fame: Kalyana Vaibhogame made him the darling of many. One of the best actors in the industry, Sunny is popular with a capital P. 
 Relationship status: Single
 Desirability quotient: He’s hot, he’s handsome and he’s got swag. He might be just one show old, but Sunny’s already making the girls go all heart-eyes!
  
  
 Pavan Sae 
 Claim to fame: With the superhit serial Mudda Mandaram in its third year, Pavan the protagonist, has proved that he is indeed a force to reckon with.
 Relationship status: Married
 Desirability quotient: With his rugged good looks, Pavan is a perfect mix of naughty and nice. Ask the female fans who swoon over him!
  
  
 Kaushal Manda
 Claim to fame: Kaushal shot into limelight as a finalist in Mr India 1999 and broke into Tollywood with Mahesh Babu’s debut film Rajakumarudu. But with his performance as Adhi Shankar, a blue-blooded rogue who murders his wife in the soap Suryavamsham Kaushal became small screen’s baddie No 1.
 Relationship status: Happily married
 Desirability: It’s not easy playing a royal heir who wouldn’t stop at anything to stake claim to the throne – be it killing his wife or even his mother. But Kaushal still manages to look sinisterly dapper through it all 
  
  
 Chennamaneni Vasudevrao
 Claim to fame: Though he’s been around for 8 years, it was his Nandi Award-winning role as Vasudev in the TV show Rama Seetha that established Vasu as an actor to reckon with. He pushed the envelope further with his performance as a cross-dressing villain   in the popular soap Malleswari last year. 
 Relationship status: Happily married
 Desirability: His classic good looks and laidback charm are a killer combo that make the ladies go weak in their knees.
  
  
 Shekar Basha
 Claim to fame: The original radio guru who won tons of applause for his signature brand of infotainment, Shekar has proved he’s the undisputed king of entertainment with his equally successful stint on TV 
 Relationship status: Married
 Desirability Quotient: He only has to say “Happy Mornings” on his show to get the girls giggling, proving that motor mouths can be desirable too
  
  
 
 
 Arjun Yajath
 Claim to fame: It takes courage to foray into cinema playing a transgender hero. Arjun did just that with the Nandi Award winning film, Ardhanaari in 2016. A year later, he reinvented himself as the dapper hearthrob of the soap Agnisakshi 
 Relationship Status: Single
 Desirability: Tall, ripped and dapper, Arjun doesn’t have to try too hard to stand out. his likeness to Kollywood star Arya only ups his hottness quotient a few notches higher.
  
  
 Satya
 Claim to fame: After starting his acting career with blockbusters like Seethamma Vakitlo Sirimalle Chettu and Baahubali, Satya forayed into TV with Na Peru Meenakshi and won the Best Villain award too last year. Satya is the protagonist in Suryavamsam and plays a pivotal role in Mudda Mandaram.
 Relationship status: Married
 Desirability Quotient: Tall, dark and menacing, Satya exudes a ‘naatu’ sex appeal that sets him apart. Those ripped muscles say it all, don’t they?
  
  
 
 Ravi Krishna
 Claim to fame: A well-known name in both the Telugu and Tamil industries and the son of producer A. M. Rathnam, Ravi Krishna is known for his role in the ongoing TV show That is Mahalakshmi. 
 Relationship status: Married
 Desirability Quotient: His affable smile and guy-next-door vibes — just the boy mummy would approve of too! 
  
  
 
 Ravi Chandra Rajeev Claim to fame: A fixture in a slew of hit soaps like Ruthu Geetham, Nannaku Prematho and Suryavamsham, Patluri Ravi Chandra Rajeev has carved a niche for himself in showbiz. 
 Relationship status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: They call him Telugu TV’s very own Siddharth and his chocolate boy looks and boy next door aura has earned a sizeable female fan following. 
  
  
 
 Ohmkar
 Claim to fame: After venturing into films as a director, this 
 popular TV host made a sensational return to television with his show Sixth Sense. This hunk, who gained popularity as the host of a string of game shows, most notably Aata, has shown that he’s still got it! 
 Relationship status: Married
 Desirability Quotient: With a sexy stubble and a charming personality, Ohmkar's certainly making primetime TV worth the watch for the ladies! 
  
  
 
 Nirupam Paritala 
 Claim to fame: A popular face on Telugu television, Nirupam has earned recognition for his 
 performances in soaps like Kanchana Ganga, Mooga Manasulu and Kalavari Kodalu, apart from game shows like Cash and 100 % Luck. The actor is currently entertaining the audience with his latest serial Karthika Deepam.
 Relationship status: Happily married to his co-star, Manjula 
 Desirability Quotient: This heartthrob has won over every TV buff with his easy-going personality and charm.
  
  
 Siddharth Varma
 Claim to fame: He rose to fame with his chocolate boy looks in the show Swathi Chinukulu and has since acted in a few films as well, including 3G Love, but 
 television has remained his first love and the actor is currently entertaining audiences as part of Swathi Chinukulu and  . 
 Relationship status: Happily married to Vishnu Priya 
 Desirability Quotient: With his impish smile and chocolate boy looks, he has young female fans fawning over him. 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
