GURUGRAM: Haryana’s department of town and country planning ( ) believes   are a nuisance for the future development of Gurgaon, and that they have no role in checking floods in times of heavy rainfall, raising eyebrows among green activists, who have long been highlighting the importance of natural drains for ground water recharge and prevention of flash floods.

 In its reply before the   ( ) over a petition alleging encroachment of the   in Gwalpahari, DTCP has claimed natural drains are a nuisance for future development of sectors 58-67. “The Kost nullah passing through sectors 58-67 in the development plan, was found to be a nuisance for development of these sectors. That’s why, in its final development plan, the government decided to re-align the nullah along the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR),” said DTCP.
 
 DTCP further mentioned that flooding of roads during heavy rains can’t be avoided even in plain areas. This, at a time when Gurgaon’s groundwater level is depleting at an alarming rate, with Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) declared Gurgaon district as a ‘dark zone’ in 2011, banning exploitation of groundwater, while flash floods during heavy rains has become the norm. 
 
 Activists Vaishali Rana Chandra and Sharmila Kaushik, who have been fighting against alleged encroachment over the Kost nullah, had filed a petition before NGT in April 2015 alleging some developers had encroached upon the nullah, which begins at Gwalpahari and passes through Baliyawas and Ghata before emptying into Badshapur drain, by constructing and filling it up, blocking natural water flow.
 
 “On the one hand, the government issues statements supporting conservation of water bodies. On the other, it issues construction licenses on the nullah,” said Chandra. “It’s not builders but the government which should be held responsible for destruction of the city’s water bodies and natural drains,” she added, questioning why natural drains were not identified as natural conservation zones (NCZ) in the Gurgaon master plan.
 
 In its reply, DTCP claimed it hasn’t given any project licence on the nullah land, adding Gwalpahari is under MCG jurisdiction. It also said when the master plan was being prepared, it was observed that roads in sectors 58-67 were ending abruptly, as the nullah zig-zagged through the sectors. So it was decided that the nullah would be redirected. On the basis of topographical survey, a technical committee conducted a feasibility study and recommended its re-alignment along SPR.
 
 Observing that the proposed nullah was passing through a residential zone, the committee also recommended it should be covered. Therefore, a box drain was proposed along SPR, from sector 58-67 to Sohna road, which is why it was not marked as a NCZ in the master plan. 
 
 DTCP also said a survey to ascertain if developers with licences in the area were constructing within their licensed land is on. “DTCP had started a survey to check for encroachments, till Punjab and Haryana high court, in its April 2016 order, stayed fresh demarcation of the nullah,” said the DTCP reply, adding the department can’t stop construction work on licensed land unless it’s proved the private developers have actually encroached upon the nullah.
 
 District town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma said DTCP can’t take a call on encroachments, as Kost nullah’s demarcation has not been completed. “Without demarcation, it’s difficult to identify encroachments,” he said.
 
 
