Ludhiana: Daba police have booked a 9-year-old for causing death by negligence after the family of two boys who drowned in the Sidhwan canal staged a protest on Thursday night. 

 Father of the deceased, accompanied by his family members, marched from Sherpur Chowk to Clock Tower barechested on the chilly January night demanding justice for his sons. He told the police he would march this way to the residence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. After this, police registered a case. A section of legal experts however found it a rare instance in which a 9-year-old has been booked for the deaths. Some of them have also raised questions over the action. 
 
 On January 8, the family staged a protest at the office of police commissioner R N Dhoke, alleging police apathy in the case. Earlier, police proceeded with section 174 of the CrPC in the case. 
 
 On Monday, parents of the deceased, with a few supporters, staged a silent protest outside the police commissioner’s office again. Carrying posters of the children, they reiterated their demand for justice. 
 
 Father of the deceased, Vijay Kumar said, “After I met ADCP Sandeep Sharam, he investigated the case and ordered the SHO to take the accused into custody. On Tuesday, police took the boy into custody but released him late in the evening. On Wednesday, I kept sitting in the office of the ACP and ADCP in Sherpur seeking justice. When they did not listen, we conducted a march.”
 
 On November 10, two brothers Karkit Kumar (13) and Rahul Kumar (11) of Daba Colony allegedly drowned in the canal. Police said they had gone to a fast food joint along the canal with a boy from the neighbourhood. Sources said one of the boys saw a coconut in the canal and jumped in to retrieve it. When he did not return, his brother also jumped in and both were drowned. Their friend rushed back home in fear, sources said. 
 
 The victims’ father, a driver, however, said the nine-year-old son of his neighbour pushed his sons into the canal. He said, “My sons had Rs 50 with them and I feel they must have had a fight over the money after which the boy pushed my sons into the canal.” 
 
 He said the police registered a case under section 174 of the CrPC without their knowledge. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP-South) Amandeep Singh Brar said, “Police have lodged an FIR under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) against the 9-year-old who accompanied Kartik and Rahul on the compliant of parents.” 
 
 On asking about the statement of the boy, ACP Brar said, “He said he was with them but denied having done anything.” 
 
 Cops draw flak
 
 The legal experts have questioned cops action finding it a rare instance in which a 9-year old has been booked for such a serious offence. 
 
 The acting president of District Bar Association, Ludhiana, Harjot Singh Harikay said, “A sensitive case in which accused is a 9-year-old and victims are elder the police should have ideally registered an FIR without sections. For that matter if the police has to lodge an FIR with sections, a report from legal expert and district attorney should have been sought before imposing a section of causing death by negligence as it is a matter of life and liberty of a boy of school going age.”
 
 He added, “I have not seen any case in my career in which a 9-year-old has been booked.”
 
 
