MUMBAI:   on Thursday moved the   with a plea to be allowed to challenge the December 2017 judgments of the Bombay high court and a special trial court that had paved the way for his trial in the 2008  , which had claimed six persons lives.

 On December 18, 2017, the HC had refused to quash a government sanction permitting his   in the terror case. On December 27, 2017, a special trial court had dismissed his plea to drop the case against him and while discharging him partially, had framed terror charges against him.
 
 Purohit’s lawyer Shrikant Shivade has been arguing that the sanction—a prior sanction required in his case as a serving army officer—was not valid under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and hence, no court can take cognizance of the charges against him. The prior sanction is to ensure that a public servant is not wrongly prosecuted. The sanction, says Purohit, who is out on bail, in his special leave petition before the SC is “not as mandated by Section 45 (1) and (2) of the UAPA Act, read with the sanction of prosecution rules, framed under it.” There was no reviewing authority as mandated under the law, he said.
 
 The HC, while dismissing his petition challenging the sanction, had referred to an observation made by the SC while granting him bail in August 21, 2017, after nine years in custody, to hold that the question of correctness of sanction could be gone into during the trial. 
 
 Purohit’s case is that documents of National Investigation Agency (NIA), which took over the probe from Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), “clearly indicate that there was no reviewing authority in existence on the day on which special court took cognizance of the charges”. He has challenged as “untenable” the special court’s observation that such documents cannot be considered while hearing a discharge plea. 
 
 The law requires safeguards to be strictly construed, and absence of proper sanction prior to court taking cognizance of crime is not a mere technical defect, but amounts to “abuse of process of law”, Purohit’s special leave petition stated.
 
 
