CHENNAI:  , a cab driver, was on duty when he received calls from other parents regarding the   of three boys at Mulshi dam, Pune during a summer camp. His son, a class X student, had gone to the same camp. “I couldn’t take the call as I was on duty. I got to know later that students had drowned in the dam. My son doesn’t have a mobile phone, so I called up his teacher at the camp immediately to check if he was safe. It is the first time we sent him on a tour like this and didn’t anticipate such issues,” he said, as he waited with his wife in front of Gate 4 at the Chennai airport on Sunday, expecting his son’s arrival at any moment.

 Minutes later, 16 children including Isaac’s son spilled out of the arrival gates, bringing expressions of relief and happiness on the faces of waiting parents. Days after the drowning accident, the remaining students from   returned to the city, ahead of their scheduled return on May 3.
 
 “I’m happy she’s back,” said a smiling  , holding on to her daughter  , a class VIII student. “I got to know of the accident a day late, through the media. I approached the school, but could not get information. So I called the school teacher who had accompanied them on the trip and was reassured that she was safe,” she said. Surprisingly, many parents were not informed about the drowning by the school or the NGO which organised the camp, and learnt of it through other means. 
 
 Parimala, was among the group of parents milling around the airport gates since 5pm, in anticipation of their children’s arrival. Officials from the directorate of matriculation received the group comprising students of Class VIII to XII. “We got requests from several parents to bring back the children and immediately arranged for their return,” said director of matriculation, S Kanappan.
 
 The fully-paid camp had been organised by the NGO ‘Teach to Lead’, which partnered with the school. School principal   said one teacher from the school and at least two others from the NGO were at the camp. “The NGO has worked with the school earlier and organised several one-day trips, but this was the first time an overnight camp of a longer duration was conducted,” she said.
 
 Recalling the incident, Nisha, a class VIII student, said the group was heading towards the water for a swim. “Sir was at the back, guiding the students and saying he would check the water level before we jumped in. But by then, the students in the front of the file got into the water,” she said. Students, however, said that there was no teacher at the front of the queue. “At least one teacher for 10 students is the norm. But the department had not been informed of the trip for us to check either,” said officials. 
 
 The education department, which has served a showcause notice to the school, said the responsibility lies with school and the NGO and that further action would be taken after investigations.
 
 
