Cleared

 Chennai: An ugly spat has broken out between TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar and party whip S Vijayadharani over endorsing the AIADMK government’s move to unveil a portrait of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa in the Tamil Nadu assembly on Monday. The PCC chief sent a report to Congress president Rahul Gandhi and general secretary in charge of Tamil Nadu affairs Mukul Wasnik on Tuesday seeking action against the two-time legislator. Vijayadharani, who kept away from the event, toeing the party line, pointed out that Rahul, Thirunavukkarasar and Wasnik had visited Jayalalithaa while she was in hospital and even attended her funeral in December 2016. Congress has eight representatives in the state assembly.
 
 Even as the state unit decided to stay away from the high-profile event in the assembly on Monday, saying it went against the House tradition unveiling the portrait of a leader convicted in a corruption case, the Vilavancode MLA visited Speaker P Dhanapal in his chamber and greeted him and the Edappadi K Palaniswami government for the gesture. She pointed out that it was the first time that a woman was being honoured in the state assembly hall. Defending her move, Vijayadharani showered encomiums on Jayalalithaa, saying the six-time chief minister was a role model for politicians in the country and her welfare measures for women and children were emulated by other states. 
 
 Vijayadharani made headlines in 2016 when she was sacked from the post of state Mahila Congress president after a public fight with former TNCC chief E V K S Elangovan.
 
 The MLA said Jayalalithaa in her death lost the opportunity to prefer a review petition against her conviction. “Thirunavukkarasar still has photographs of Vajpayee and MGR in his residence even after becoming TNCC chief. He even pays floral tributes to MGR during anniversaries. The leaders do whatever they feel right. Jayalalithaa always encouraged women legislators and I strongly feel that unveiling the portrait of a woman leader has to be honoured and respected by women legislators,” Vijayadharani told TOI. She said she was well-prepared for the action by the high command. “I have not acted in any manner against Congress nor its ally, DMK,” she said, expressing gratitude to Congress leader Sonia Gandhi for giving her a ticket to contest in the 2011 assembly election after 23 years of association in the party.
 
 For his part, Thirunavukkarasar said, “She exceeded her limits and went against the party stand. Questioning the party leadership is inappropriate. She is entitled to meet the speaker as an MLA for constituency issues, but not for this,” the TNCC chief said. When Rahul and he visited Jayalalithaa in hospital and attended the last rites, she was not convicted in any case. Thirunavukkarasar said he would act as per the directions of the high command.
 
 
