South Africa are looking at history and hoping that the Pink day will continue to be a winning day for their team. They have as yet to lose a game played on Pink day where the team wears pink uniform to try spread awareness about breast cancer. There is also the not so small matter of the return of   to the South African line-up. The world knows what a game changer de Villiers can be and the Proteas will be hoping that he helps them turn things around and maintain their work record on Pink day. He himself has played some incredible knocks on Pink days and another one could well be inspirational for the likes of Markram and company.

 
 The BCCI that comes in for criticism for the amount of money it makes could do well to take a leaf out of the Australian and South African boards and every season designate a day for a cause and thereby create awareness about it. The kind of following the game has, the cause would benefit immensely from the awareness created by that ODI game.
 
  
  
 
 Even the cash rich IPL could lessen the hostility and jealousy that follows it, if the franchises pick a charity of their own and contribute money for every run, wicket and win that its team gets. In the context of what the franchises spend on players and logistics, this would be a small amount but the goodwill it will create would be priceless. The Mumbai Indians have been doing a fantastic job with their education programme and to see the children in blue thronging the stadiums is a delightful sight. The Royal Challengers Bangalore also have a Green day. So, if every franchise comes forward with its own cause that helps make society a better place, there will be lesser hostility towards the league.
 
 While the Proteas are naturally concerned at the inability of their batsmen to tackle the Indian spin duo, the other big worry for them is  . The Indian skipper is in sublime form and has shown he is way above other batsmen in the world. His battle with Kagiso Rabada is worth going miles to watch and Rabada is the only bowler who the Indian skipper has had to watch out for.   also is batting splendidly, so the Proteas have their task cut out as they strive to maintain their unbeaten record in Pink day games.
 
