CHANDIGARH: Referring to the Haryana’s  , providing several facilities including opportunities of employment in the state departments, the Punjab and Haryana high court asked Punjab if any such policy/facility for the welfare of sportspersons existed in the state. “It is directed that in case any policy exists, the same be placed on record and if no policy is there, an affidavit be filed stating therein as to whether any such policy to be framed is under consideration or not,” ordered the HC.

 The court has also directed the Haryana government to supply one copy of “Haryana Sports and Physical Fitness Policy 2015” to the Punjab government for reference. Punjab has been asked to respond to the HC by March 28.
 
 Justice   passed these orders while impleading the Punjab government as respondent party in an ongoing case related to benefits to sportspersons of Haryana.
 
 The matter is pending before the HC in the wake of a contempt petition filed by two mountaineers,   and  . Petitioners, who had scaled the world's highest peak, had approached the court to initiate contempt of court proceedings against the senior officers of the sports, police and home departments for not giving them job and cash award as per the directions given by HC on April 28, 2016.
 
 On March 17, the state government had told the HC that both the petitioners had been appointed as sub-inspectors in Haryana police. They were, however, denied cash award.
 
 Regarding denial of cash award, counsel for the petitioner Aftab Singh Khara had been arguing that the government had not given them any money while  , who had also scaled the  , was given Rs 21 lakh by the state government besides a job of the deputy superintendent of police (DSP).
 
 Both petitioners had scaled Mount Everest in 2011, and had requested the Haryana government to give them jobs, along with cash award in parity with other mountaineers.
 
 Subsequent to the petition, the Haryana had decided to pay Rs 21 lakh assistance to all those residents of Haryana who had climbed the world’s highest peak from May 2, 2010 to May 2, 2013. Expanding the scope of the petition, the HC wants to know the benefits provided by Punjab to its sportspersons.
 
 
