GURUGRAM: A city court has ordered an FIR against 14 people, including three ACPs and an SHO, on a petition filed by an elderly woman who has accused her son, daughter, daughter-in-law and son-in-law of cheating her of around Rs 60 lakh.

  (65) moved court a couple of months ago, alleging that her son and daughter-in-law drugged her and sent her to a mental hospital in a bid to grab her property. 
 
 In her petition, she also claimed the four cops were hand in glove with her family members and tried to hush up the case.
 
 As per the petition, Suman had received Rs 60-70 lakh as alimony after divorce from her husband in 2011. Then, her son and daughter-in-law urged her to move to Gurugram from Delhi and stay with them.
 
 A few months later, apparently on the insistence of her son, she bought a house worth around Rs 80 lakh in Gurugram. But the son somehow managed to get the house registered in his wife’s name. 
 
 When Suman found this out, her son and daughter-in-law started fighting with her on a regular basis.
 
  claimed she had started feeling ill due to regular quarrels and one day in 2012, her son called a doctor, who came and gave her an injection. “After hours when I opened my eyes, I found myself in a mental hospital in Delhi,” she alleged. She said she spent several months at the hospital before her daughter helped her come out in February 2013. “But by then, my house had already been sold off. When I confronted my son, he returned only Rs 17 lakh,” said Suman. She took the money and moved to live with her daughter and son-in-law. 
 
 She said after a few months, her son-in-law took Rs 17 lakh from her as loan, promising to return it soon. But later, he simply refused to pay back.
 
 Hapless, Suman filed a complaint against her children and son-in-laws at Sector 56 police station in 2014. After preliminary inquiry, police officers there reportedly found merit in her complaint and recommended filing an FIR against her family members as well as the owner and employees of the mental hospital. But later, the police allegedly converted the criminal case into a civil one. 
 
 “When I opposed, the matter was referred to senior police officers for investigation but my grievance was not addressed,” said Suman.
 
 “Unable to get any relief from police, I have approached court,” she said.
 
 Hearing the petition, judicial magistrate 1st Class (JMiC)   on May 8 directed police to file an FIR in the case for proper investigation. 
 
 Acting on the court order, Gurugram police have booked the four police officers, Suman’s son, daughter, daughter-in-law and son-in-law under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 365 (kidnapping), 368 (keeping in confinement), 341 (wrongful restraint), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 182 (false information), 199 (false statement), 120B (conspiracy) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. The owner and employees of the medical centre have also been booked in the case. 
 
 DCP (east)   said an FIR had been filed. “We will investigate the matter and verify the facts,” he added.
 
 
