BENGALURU: The battle for a party ticket among hopefuls is getting fierce. Senior leaders in the   and   have announced that they would conduct surveys before finalizing and distributing tickets, renewing hopes of new entrants and creating ripples among sitting legislators.

 “The way many new entrants have launched mass contact programmes before tickets are given out, has left the party leadership baffled. Apart from innovative strategies, these wannabe legislators have spent crores of rupees to woo voters only on the hope of getting the party ticket,” said some party leaders.
 
 In Hebbal constituency, for instance, C K  , grandson of veteran and former railway minister C K  , was the candidate in the 2013 assembly poll and 2016 bypoll. He is hoping for one last chance this time. However, MLC Byrathi Suresh has suddenly grown active, leaving Sharief’s supporters concerned.
 
 This is also true of the BJP. Kannada cine audio tycoon Tulasiram Naidu of Lahari Recording Company, popularly known as Lahari Velu, who joined the BJP a few months ago, is touring Chamarajpet following an assurance from a senior party leader.
 
 It is not a cakewalk for bigwigs either. Though sitting BJP MLA R Ashoka is a strong contender in Padmanabhanagar, he is facing a tough challenge from former mayor D Venkatesh Murthy, who is backed by BJP OBC Morcha president K S Eshwarappa. Speculation is rife that Ashoka would be asked to move to another seat.
 
 For Mangaluru City South, greenhorn and Hindu Jagaran Vedike leader Satyajith Surathkal has emerged as a strong contender against former BJP MLA N Yogish Bhat. In Tumakuru, Jyothi Ganesh, son of Tumakuru MP G S Basavaraj, is giving   sleepless nights.
 
 Sources said the BJP high command has virtually taken over all powers of choosing candidates, and is relying on feedback from the field. “I ran from pillar to post to convince senior leaders but none of them gave me any assurance. They said they weren’t even sure about their own chances,” said one BJP aspirant.
 
 
