SHILLONG: An air of festivity bathed the hill station as people turned out in large numbers in colourful attire to exercise their democratic right on Tuesday when Meghalaya voted to elect its 60-member assembly. Voting was peaceful and no untoward incident was reported from anywhere in the state. Voter mood was upbeat as they lined up before polling stations to cast their vote. 

 The election department made special arrangements to facilitate the voting process, especially in model polling stations, where volunteers ushered in people with candies and caps flaunting the words, 'proud voter'. The killing of an NCP candidate by militants after which a top rebel leader was gunned down did not adversely affect electioneering in the  , where polling was peaceful amid high voter turnout. 
 
 Enthusiasm was witnessed among millennial voters who came out to vote in large numbers. Seniors too joined in the electoral process with a centurion stealing the show at a city polling booth. He was assisted by his family members to cast his vote. "After all the excitement that was built up through campaigns, songs and dances, the actual voting process was sort of an anti-climax and surprisingly simple," gushed  , who pressed the EVM button for the first time. 
 
 For the fashion savvy youth of the 'Scotland of East', flashing the indelible ink mark on the forefinger was a rage across the city today with youngsters taking selfies and getting photographed outside polling booths. In fact, volunteers deployed by the election department to assist the voters too were seen taking photographs of chirpy groups of young adults flashing the 'V' sign. "Yes of course I want my candidate to win, but then, no matter who wins, one thing is for sure that we have all won today," said a triumphant young woman voter at the Pine Mount polling station.
 
 Having relocated to their home town after two decades of stay abroad, a voter couple expressed awe at the magnitude of the election process. "I got to meet several friends and acquaintances after so many years at the polling station and we chatted while waiting for our turn in the queue," one of the couples said.
 
 The scenario in the rural areas too was festive with voters turning out in colourful ethnic regalia besides the usual western-wears. "Voters in the villages are sincere about their responsibilities and always make it a point to exercise their franchise," said a polling agent in a rural assembly segment in Smit, East Khasi Hills district.
 
 As is customary in the hill state, almost all contestants arrange for feasts on voting day irrespective of whether they are their supporters or not. 
 
 "We will all go for community lunch. We are all invited," said a woman domestic worker, who took off for the day from her daily chores to take part in the democratic process.
 
 
