BATHINDA: A student of the   ( ),  , who complained of sexual harassment in February, has alleged that her parents were being intimidated because of the FIR registered on her complaint. 

 The student told TOI on Friday that a woman posing as an official from Intelligence Bureau visited her parents' home on Thursday and told her parents that she was not concentrating on her studies and was indulging in politics. 
 
 "The woman spoke had details of my two addresses, which I have given only to the university. My mother called me in the presence of the woman and made me to talk to her. When I asked the woman about her identity and told her I am recording the call, she gave the phone back to my mother. 
 
 "She told my mother I am rude and would write in my report what she deemed fit. My parents are trying to ascertain the identity of the woman and have decided to approach the local police to lodge a formal complaint," she said.
 
 The student had alleged that she was sexually harassed by a mess worker, Arvind Kumar, on the night of February 27. A case of sexual harassment was registered at Kotfatta police station in Bathinda on March 19. She had also accused a CUP faculty member of making distasteful remarks after she lodged a complaint. However, teh varsity's gender-sensitization committee gave a clean chit to the faculty member.
 
 Upset over the entire incident, the student has written to the PMO and the Union ministry of human resource development. The student has asked both to direct university authorities to get her justice.
 
 When contacted, CUP vice-chancellor R K Kohli denied that the varsity had any role in the visit by a woman officer to the student's home. 
 
 "The university had only once approached the family members of the student, and that to tell them about the police case of sexual harassment registered on her complaint. It was necessary to apprise them about it. The university never shares addresses of students with anyone. In this case, we have not asked anyone to visit their homes," he said.
 
 
