DUBAI: No one quite keeps it as straight as  . She uses the angles, but she loves the lines, her groundstrokes flirting with the chalk, but not straying. The 23-year-old is not your bells and whistles kinda girl, she’s quick around the court, a shuffle, a hop and a big swing, she has pace and she punches through the air. Not big on power, but she can punish.

 
 Even her gear is no-nonsense basic, shorts and a matching racer-back tee, it allows for ease and maximum efficiency. Which equally is her style of play. The 23-year-old Svitolina won 6-4, 6-0 on Saturday, beating Russian Daria Kasatkina for her 11th career title.
 
 Svitolina, who took home $651,347 for her successful title defense of the Dubai Duty Free   championships, uses her prize-money constructively. Only her first pay cheque was a celebration. She bought herself a cell phone, the latest. After that she has only been investing in her ever-growing team, coach, hitting partner, physio and nutritionist.
 
 “I’m really happy with my performance today, all week I handled the pressure so well, coming here as the defending champion I had no expectations, I just wanted to take it one match at a time,” Svitolina, who had beaten the Russian in their two previous meetings, said. “My game plan today was to keep the ball in the court, make her rally. I am pleased with how I handled everything.”
 
 Svitolina broke in the fifth game of the first set when the 20-year-old Russian tried too many things, she juggled with cute and tried craft, but didn’t quite manage either. In the end, it cost her the game, sending one wide to allow the defending champion to get ahead. The top-seed did well not to take her leg of the accelerator, maximizing on her relative freshness - the fact that she had spent significantly less time on court than her opponent in her run to the final - helped her plough on.
 
 In the ninth game, Svitolina had three set points on her opponent’s serve, but Kasatkina pulled herself together to hold and push her opponent to serve out the set. Svitolina responded with precision in the next game, closing out on her first opportunity.
 
