COIMBATORE: Some shops are never known by their christened name. They are invariably known by how customers choose to remember it. One such shop is Kulandhai Kadai at Kempatti Colony. The shop was started in 1999 by  ,  , as C R Biriyani Centre. C R stands for Coimbatore Rusi. But people in the locality had known him as Kulandai and the shop came to be known as Kulandhai Kadai.

 Kulandaivel, who hails from a family of traditional butchers, used to work at a butcher’s shop at S H Colony at Ukkadam. Later, he also doubled as a second-hand vehicle dealer. “The serial blasts of 1998 severely hit both the businesses and I was left without a livelihood. That was when I thought of starting a biriyani shop,” says Kulandaivel.
 
 Though he had no prior experience in making biriyani, Kulandaivel decided to start the shop in a gut feeling. Initially, he was helped by an octogenarian called Kareem. “He was staying in my locality and he had no one to care for. He used to cook at functions and spend the money he earned on children in the locality,” says Kulandaivel.
 
 When he decided to start the shop, Kareem, then 82, guided him with the biriyani recipe. “For the first couple of months, I struggled to get the recipe right. But after I got the hang of it, i have made sure to stick to it till date,” says Kulandaivel.
 
 Kulandaivel prepares the biriyani and masalas all by himself. “If I have to go out of the town, I would close the shop for that day. I don’t allow anyone else to cook. This is how I ensure that the trademark taste is maintained,” says Kulandaivel.
 
 Kulandaivel started the shop with just five dishes – mutton biriyani, brain curry, thalai curry, intestine fry and liver fry. He used to prepare the dishes at home and bring them to the shop, which he started as a thattu kadai. Later, he expanded the shop and put tables and chairs. Today, the shop can accommodate around a dozen people at a time.
 
 According to Kulandaivel, mutton is the meat meant for biriyani. “Chicken wouldn’t lend as much a flavour to biriyani as mutton does,” he says and adds that’s why even today he has not introduced chicken biriyani though he had added chicken side dishes to the menu. He has also improvised the dish kuzhambu omelette, by adding spices to the egg. “It became an instant hit,” he says.
 
 Today, the shop has customers not only from the city but also from other places. People from Tirupur, Pollachi and Dindigul, make it a point to visit the shop when they visit the city. On a Saturday afternoon, a customer from Dindigul, who was in the city for a business deal, was seen taking parcels back home. He says he never misses to visit the shop when he is in the city.
 
 A  , 27, who works at a private bank in the city, says he visits the shop every week. “The mutton biryani and thalai curry are favourites at this place. I keep coming with my friends to savour them,” he adds.
 
 What: Mutton biriyani, Kuzhambu omelette (signature dishes), Mutton Chukka, Mutton chops, Kothu kari, Thalai kari, Brain fry, Kudal kari, Chilhi chicken
 
 
 
