MOHALI: Kings XI Punjab mentor   had promised entertainment and aggression before the start of the match. And, the jampacked crowd at Mohali's PCA Stadium was provided with both by   as the Punjab side brushed aside Delhi Daredevils by 6 wickets in the second match of this year's   ( ) on Sunday.

 
 
 
 
 Chasing 167, Rahul smashed the fastest IPL fifty off just 14 balls. The Karnataka opener attacked spared none - in the first over, he thumped   for 16 runs; then belted Mohammed Shami for 12 runs in the second over. The best was reserved for Amit Mishra, who leaked 24 runs in the third over of Kings XI's innings. Rahul's (51 off 16b; 6x4, 4x6) assault on Mishra included three boundaries and two sixes. He was dismissed off a Boult full toss.
 
 The aggression was continued by Rahul's Karnataka teammate   (50 off 33b; 5x4, 2x6), who hit the DD bowlers with utmost disdain. The duo's batting ensured that the Punjab side didn't miss Chris Gayle or Aaron Finch.
 
  
  
 
 Local lad Yuvraj Singh, however, played a disappointing innings, scoring a painstaking 12 off 22 balls. Yuvi played and missed a lot before his misery was ended by Rahul Tewatia.
 
 David Miller (unbeaten 24 off 23b; 1x4) and   (unbeaten 22 off 15b; 2x4) provided the finishing touches for Kings XI.
 
 Captaining for the first time in the IPL, Ravichandran Ashwin pulled a rabbit out of his hat by selecting 17-year-old mystery spinner from Afghanistan Mujeeb Ur Rahman as his fourth overseas player. Mujeeb made an immediate impact when he accounted for big-hitting New Zealander Colin Munro in the third over of Delhi's innings. Munro's attempted switch hit to a full-pitched drifter didn't make any connection and he was a plumb in front of the wickets.
 
 Despite the loss, Gautam Gambhir (55 off 42b; 5x4, 1x6), returning to DD after seven years, made sure the run flow didn't stop. He got stuck in and hammered Axar Patel for two boundaries and a six in the next over.
 
 Shreyas Iyer and   supported Gambhir but weren't fluent on a batting belter. It was Rishabh Pant (28 off 13b; 4x4, 1x6), who injected momentum in Delhi's innings. He took a special liking for Andrew Tye, hitting the Aussie fast bowler for 17 runs in the 13th over.
 
 Mujeeb proved to be Pant's nemesis. The Delhi wicketkeeper tried to hoick Mujeeb over mid-wicket but misread a googly and paid the price.
 
 Mujeeb was at it again; this time running out Gambhir with a direct hit.
 
