BENGALURU: The death of three workers while cleaning a sewage treatment plant at a private apartment complex in Somasundar Palya, southeast Bengaluru, has yet again brought to the fore the menace of manual scavenging.

 Statistics from Karnataka State Commission for Safai Karmacharis show 68 people died while cleaning manholes, dry latrines and sewage pits across Karnataka since 2008.
 
 Activists say the actual number of deaths could be more as most cases aren’t reported. They also slammed government agencies for their failure to take action against those employing workers to clean sewers and septic tanks manually without safety gear.
 
 Magsaysay award winner Bezwada  , working with   for years, said: "I hold the Karnataka government responsible for failing to stop manual scavenging and related deaths."
 
 "I will also file a case against the government under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. It has not taken any action despite a series of deaths," he added.
 
 "The BBMP should take an undertaking from apartment owners that they’d never hire labourers to clean STPs or septic tanks on their premises. The government should ensure mechanisation of cleaning by providing sucker machines and sucker pipes. It has to take responsibility for this incident and initiate legal action against the apartment owners," said Wilson, who is also the convener of  , an NGO.
 
 M R Venkatesh, chairman, Karnataka State Commission for Safai Karmacharis, said, "It’s a serious case of negligence leading to loss of
 
 lives and the apartment owners have to be booked under Section 304 of CrPC. As compensation, they should be made to pay Rs 10 lakh to the families of each of the victims."
 
 Tushar Girinath, chairman, BWSSB, said: "BWSSB has nothing to do with the incident since it took place at a private apartment. It’s up to the BBMP to take action against the apartment owners."
 
 "We will take action based on the joint commissioner’s report following spot inspection," said N Manjunatha Prasad, BBMP commissioner.
 
 Most manual scavengers in south are from state 
 
 The   and Caste Census 2011 showed 90% of the 16,362 manual scavengers in south India are from Karnataka. The state has 15,375 of them, followed by Andhra Pradesh (388), Tamil Nadu (334), Telangana (165) and Kerala (100). However, the Karnataka government has so far identified only 726 manual scavengers — 424 (rural) and 302 (urban).
 
 The Karnataka State Commission for Safai Karmacharis records show there are only 202 manual scavengers in Bengaluru. “We have conducted a household survey and identified these workers. Most of the people who were included in the Socio Economic and Caste Census aren’t actually manual scavengers,” said commission chairman M R Venkatesh.
 
 Activists however see a design in under-reporting manual scavengers. “The government is not accepting the census findings so that it can avoid providing benefits and schemes to them,” said Professor Y J Rajendra, general secretary, Karnataka chapter of People’s Union for Civil Liberties.
 
 
