Coimbatore: Standing at the base camp located on the northern side near Tibet, eight-year-old S I Eashwaran couldn’t resist the charm of majestic Mount Everest that he vowed to summit it when he grows up. “It looked majestic and I was awed by it,” he said.

 Along with him was his 12-year-old brother S I Karthikeyan, who travelled to the base camp located at a height of 16,500ft. The duo was accompanied by their parents Suresh Kumar and Indrani S.
 
 “Generally, people take the southern route from Kathmandu via Kalapathar whenever they travel to see the Mount Everest. But from there we only get the view of the peak. We cannot see the entire mountain. But from this side, when we travel through Tibet, we can see the entire mountain from top to bottom, which is a breathtaking view. I wanted to prove that even children and homemakers can take this up. Anybody who has the will can travel here and enjoy the view,” said Suresh Kumar, who runs Triumph Expeditions. He said he had received special permissions to visit the camp.
 
 It was not an easy journey for the children. Karthikeyan said once he reached Dingri, which is 300km away from the Rongbuk monastery, he could hardly eat. “We couldn’t eat and i began vomiting. The temperature went as low as minus 25C. But we are glad we managed,” he said.
 
 Suresh said it was a nine-day expedition done on a sports utility vehicle and it was completed on April 25. “For this, we travelled to the eight passes and also went to the world’s highest motorable path with the kids,” he said.
 
 Indhira, who is a homemaker, said this was the first time she had travelled to such heights and she was very happy seeing the majestic mountain. “When we were in Tibet itself, the temperature dipped to minus eight degree Celsius at 9,500ft and we were worried if we could make it. But at 16,500ft, we met the trekkers and other campers. They provided us with food and we trekked for 400ft and returned,” she said.
 
 Suresh said the motive was to prove that the age was no barrier and anyone could travel to the Everest base camp. “From South India, only two trekkers have made it to the summit. We want more people to come forward. Instead of travelling to cities, we want people to live with the nature and experience it,” he said.
 
 
