Ahmedabad: How would a mother feel when those magical words — mom, ma, or mummy — can’t be uttered by her child? Only mothers such as Nalini Raval can articulate that feeling. Her daughter, Juhi, 25, has multiple disabilities including speech and hearing impairment, low vision, and orthopaedic problems. However, this mother-daughter duo faces all the odds with smiles.

 Raval, 50, a native of Akola in Maharashtra, came to Idar after her marriage to Nikhil, a temple priest. The couple then moved to Ahmedabad in Haveli ni Pol near Raipur Chakla and were blessed with a girl child.
 
 “When Juhi was less than a year old, she was affected by meningitis and had to be hospitalized for nearly a fortnight. The outcome was heart-breaking as her ear canals were affected and developed hearing impairment and thus did not learn to speak,” recounts Raval. “When she was about seven years old, her eyes were also affected as she was advised to wear spectacles with the power of minus-19. Moreover, she also needed surgeries on her left leg to readjust a bone.”
 
 
 But the biggest blow came in the form of Nikhil’s untimely demise when Juhi was still a teen. Raval admits that she was in depression for a year because she could not find any way out. She had never worked to earn money, and the responsibility of raising a spirited girl frightened her. It was then that she decided to send Juhi to the Blind People’s Association (BPA) for education.
 
 Jigna Joshi, the project coordinator at BPA, said that Raval, who used to be on the campus for almost the entire day, explored her interest in cooking and found that others liked her food. “She initially became a member of the informal group of mothers who are on the campus for the entire day,” Joshi said. “With the help of people such as Raval, the concept of ‘Matruthal’ was born out of their group named ‘Pratyush’. Raval then started her own successful tiffin service, catering to over 15 persons per day.”
 
 Raval now cooks with passion and also works at the BPA. “The activity gave me purpose and hope. I was pleasantly surprised when Juhi also started helping me out with the cooking and packing,” Raval said. “She has also started learning to make dupattas and jewellery. I dream of getting her settled like any ordinary mother, but I know that dream will be be difficult to fulfil. But now, I no longer lose hope.” 
 
 Raval said that mothers with special children need hand-holding and support as there are high chances of getting overwhelmed by the seemingly insurmountable challenges. “But only mothers know how to love and give,” she said.
 
 
