CHANDIGARH: The   government is all set to create a censor board-like body in the state in a bid to police those who sing so-called vulgar songs. State cultural affairs minister Navjot Singh   on Saturday announced that ' ' would be formed to tackle the menace of "vulgarity in lyrics by working zealously towards its complete eradication". He made the announcement at a meeting of intellectuals, litterateurs and artistes of the state. 

 Sidhu said the commission would be authorised to make recommendations to take stringent action against singers or artistes polluting the "cultural scene of the state" through vulgar, double meaning or violence inciting songs. If needed, the commission would also issue show-cause notices to artistes singing vulgar songs or glorifying violence, call them for counseling, and then book them.
 
 Although a number of pop singers have taken to glorifying violence and Punjab’s gun culture, the commission has not clearly defined what is considers “pure” and “impure” culture, leaving many people wary of such a body.
 
 Noted critic, professor Sukhdev Singh Sirsa, who is president of the Punjabi Sahit Akademi, says such a commission would be meaningless. “A lyricist writes songs, which are sought by performers who say they cater to the people’s tastes,” he says. “So everyone is complicit in this situation. I think the commission should try to create an environment to change the mores of people rather than using force.”
 
 Sidhu, however, says the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has the necessary provisions to take action. These include sections 290 (punishment for public nuisance) and 294 (obscene act in a public place, or singing, reciting obscene song in or near a public place).
 
 The meeting also saw various experts airing their views regarding classification of songs, promoting those singers devoted to Punjabi culture but hailing from poor economic background, encouraging those writing good lyrics without even a tinge of vulgarity.
 
 The patron-in-chief of the commission would be the CM while Sidhu would be patron. The responsibility of recommending other members was entrusted to the head of Punjab Kala Parishad Surjit Patar, who would be the chairman of the commission. Sidhu said the commission would submit its report within two weeks and which would be taken up with the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh.
 
 
 
