AHMEDABAD: A Satellite resident has filed a complaint against a couple and their son for allegedly cheating them of Rs 60 lakh on pretext of selling a property. According to the complaint, the same property was sold on similar forged documents to two other persons earlier. 

 According to the complaint by Rahul Soni, a resident of Satellite, he came in contact with Vivek Shah, a resident of Nishan Bungalow, Jodhpur, when Shah used to frequent Soni’s garage. Shah identified self as a member of the family owning a major detergent brand and mentioned that his father Subhash Shah is president of a social club. Shah mentioned that he was looking for a buyer for his bungalow after which Soni showed interest and struck at deal at Rs 2.12 crore.
 
 “According to his complaint, Soni gave Rs 5 lakh as advance payment and later paid Rs 55 lakh in accounts of Subhash Soni and his wife through cheques in October 2015. He grew suspicious when the family did not provide other documents including share certificate and society allotment letter among others. The documents provided by the family also turned out to be fake. When he was denied possession, Soni probed and got to know that the same property was sold to two others - Sagar Desai and Rajesh Thakkar - on similar forged documents,” said an official.
 
 Trespassing cases lodged 
 
 In a complaint filed with Ranip police,  , a resident of Ranip, has filed a complaint against Kalu Rabari, a resident of Keshavnagar, and others, for assault on his son Dharmendra, 35. According to his complaint, Dharmendra works as a watchman at a plot in the area for past seven years. When Dharmendra was on duty at 9.30pm on May 2, Kalu and other accused forcibly entered the plot with their cows. When Dharmendra tried to protest, he was beaten up and Kalu hit him on head with a sword. Solanki has filed a complaint with Ranip police for the incident.
 
 In another incident, Krishna Upadhyay, 68, a resident of Adhikar Society, Sabarmati, has filed a complaint with   police against a group of men and women led by Ashoksingh Rajput for trespassing and attempt for encroachment. As per her complaint, they were informed on May 1 by their watchman about encroachment at Parichay Plot in Sabarmati area by the group. The group was allegedly trying to break the lock. The group fled after police reached the spot.
 
 
