MUMBAI: In years to come, those who keep track of cricket's shorter formats will have to keep referring to  's profile to figure how exactly did he change the patterns of run-making in limited overs cricket. It's that kind of batting that Rohit has put on display the last couple of years. Having been named the 'hitman' by his teammates, it's for good reason that 2017 belongs to the Mumbai batsman.

 
 
 
 
 Not really. In fact now that you mention it, I'm thinking to myself if I ever thought on those lines. In fact, in one of my recent interactions with the media, while answering a question, I actually had to emphasise on something that I'd like to point out again right now. I said 'it may look easy from the outside, but it's not. It's exactly the opposite'.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I try and play with the field, more than anything else. I never try to hit the ball hard. I just try and hit the ball through the line. The central bit to my batting is to try and clear the field. There's no more science to it. My style of batting cannot be compared to the likes of   and  , who can just stand and deliver from the word go. I have to do something at the crease to make it happen.
 
 
 
 There are two sides to doing what I do. On the positive side, once the rhythm is set, it gives me a multi-dimensional view of the field and scoring becomes less complicated. It gets the desired result. On the negative side, I have to live with it when things don't click and the immediate reaction I get is "arrey, why did he have to play that shot" and so on. The thing is, I'm not doing anything different. No batsman wants to get out without delivering the job at hand. But, in either case, it's the mindset you carry to the field is what matters. When you're trying different things at the crease, you need to have a positive mindset, one that keeps pushing you to try. That's necessary.
 
 
 
 
 Correct. The philosophy to my batting remains the same. I try and apply a very simple theory. You may have seen it over the years. There's a template I follow. I start my engine very slow and it has to go past a certain distance before it gets heated. And that's when I begin to open up.
 
 
 
 I keep hearing so many so-called experts who dissect an innings and say "Oh, look at the strike rate in the first 10 overs. It's so less". I don't care for those views as long as the end result presents itself in the manner it should. This is better than me trying to start an innings at a strike rate of 150, getting out and then sitting in the pavilion watching the rest of the game. What's the point in that? I have this great opportunity to bat from the first ball of the innings to the last ball. Why shouldn't I do that? That opportunity is not available to any other batsman in my team, because I get to face the first ball.
 
 
 
 Firstly, time has been a great teacher. It's over the years that I have tried to understand the finer nuances of batting. There's a pattern to my batting, and it's a trend that I think I managed to figure out to a large extent. For instance, the first thing I did was do away with any sort of negative thinking, or allowing any kind of pressure to build on me. It never helps. Like I said, I follow a certain template at the crease. That's a multi-layered one. You got to have an instinctive approach, depending on the opposition, the conditions etc. Then, there are some basics too. I like to break my innings into three parts inside my mind. I take my time in the first 10 overs, acquire a sense of the occasion. From over number 11, I begin to realise if I'm ready to free my arms a bit and between then and over number 30, I like to build something. Multiple factors play a role in these stages and if I've moved smoothly up to over number 35, then that's where I'd call myself dangerous for the opposition. This doesn't happen every time. But at least inside my mind, this is how I approach an ODI innings.
 
 
 
 I have to remain very cautious with the new ball. It's strange I say this despite consistently opening the innings in the shorter formats. I know that the new ball can get me out and that's why I like to take my time seeing it off. Once I see that threat off, it then boils down to how I build the innings on that particular day.
 
 
 
 The first questions I was asked after scoring 264 was if I could've touched 300. In T20s too, you score a hundred and the question is if a 200 is possible. I want to keep telling them, 'guys please relax'. Only 36 runs separate a 264 and 300, so what's the big deal? That's how it's seen. In my mind, I can understand where they're coming from. But, on a personal front, I never think like that. I have a mantra: Just keep things very simple. Even in personal life, I don't try and complicate things or try and think too much about anything in particular. If you're playing on a good (batting) pitch, take advantage. If you're playing on a challenging track, take your time. Simple. The only difference is that because I've done it thrice (200+), I know how to do it also. So the only advantage I perhaps enjoy is that I've been there thrice. But let me tell you one thing: If you are a top order batsman and you continue to bat with the mindset that you've got to stay there for the entire 50 overs, anything is possible on a day when things go your way. After you score a century, it's highly unlikely that bowlers will look to get you out as much as they'll try to curb the run flow. It's only if you commit a mistake that you'll be walking back. Like in my case, after I reach a hundred, a potential outswinger is not what's worrying me. I'm entering a zone from where only my mistake will allow me to fail, unless of course if you're facing someone of the calibre of a  ,   or even Mitchell Starc and   who can do things with the ball.
 
 
 
 I can tell you this with conviction. Every time I've scored a hundred and gotten out, it has only been due to my mistake. Try and hit through the line and it all works out fine.
 
 
 
 I wait. Just recently, I got out to   because I couldn't pick his googly. You can't pick the delivery from the bowler's wrist or fingers at the point of release. So what I prefer doing is reading the bowler and waiting for that split second. In that same series, Nuwan Pradeep was bowling to me, and going by the field that was set, I knew he would only bowl on the off-side. Now, I've played Pradeep enough to know he likes bowling yorkers outside the off-stump. That's where instinct steps in. What I try to do is play to the field. I wasn't trying to hit him too hard, just trying to pierce through the gaps. At one instance, I came inside the line, covered my off-stump and tried scooping the ball to fine-leg and one more over square leg. I remember he looking at me with a scowl. When I was facing Lakmal, I tried to understand the field that he had set and I was convinced he wasn't in a position to bowl certain deliveries. So, that narrowed down my 'v' and all I had to do is wait for the bowler to pitch it where I knew he would.
 
 
 
 Captaincy at   has taught me a few things. I have begun to understand a bowler's mindset. For instance, when I give the ball to Bumrah (in IPL) and we discuss a yorker, I know what field he's asking for. That's been an immensely helping factor. It allows you to imagine scenarios.
 
 
 
 (Laughs) Didn't mean it that way. Stop, I know where you're going with this. What I meant is I like to wait and take the battle back to the opposition. I can tell you by experience, the percentage of being right with an approach like this is a lot more.
 
 
 
 I like to watch, what I may consider some of my better knocks, every now and then. Not particularly when I'm going through a rough patch or registering low scores. Every innings is different from the other. I watch it a bit for fun and also for the tactics I may have used in that particular game. It certainly helps. The Mohali double hundred, for instance, was a different kind of innings for me. It was purely tactical because I just played the entire innings with the field that was set for me. It made me realise that the more you work with your own bowlers, the easier it gets to figure out the opposition's bowling strategy. Because you're thinking similarly. That Mohali knock is a classic example of this.
 
 
 
 It's the best attack in the world. See, England and Australia can also unleash a great variety at home. But this South African attack is different and certainly the most lethal. It's not a one-dimensional attack. They have variety, experience and different skill levels. (Kagiso) Rabada is a tall guy who can hit the deck hard. Morne Morkel is the same. Dale Steyn has the experience to use the new and the old ball. Vernon Philander is so dangerous in SA's home conditions. He keeps bowling that length, never gives anything easy. It is the most challenging of all challenging attacks we'll be facing in the next one year.
 
 
 Oh yes, they've been the best traveling team. They've been among the best at home too. We need to be really focused and I think we're pretty confident with the way we're approaching this series. The nucleus of this team is completely new (from an overseas perspective) and there are things this team is totally capable of achieving. We've just got to play to our potential. It's a long year of playing away cricket and we're looking forward to it.
 
 
 
 England reached Australia one month early to prepare for the Ashes. We don't enjoy that kind of time. But that kind of a strategy may not necessarily work for us either. We're good with what's in place.
 
 
 
 Yeah, that's funny. Even I heard that one. She and me definitely make a great team. She's been a great support as a wife, friend, manager, everything and that's just adding to the freedom with which I can express myself on the field.
 
