KOLKATA: A 15-year-old budding boxer from the   area and her father were beaten up by a group of local teenagers for standing up against them when they passed obscene remarks at her for practising boxing.

 When the girl and her father protested protested — who practices boxing and aspires to represent the country in the future — was allegedly beaten up when she stood up against some neighbourhood teenagers, who passed obscene remarks at her for practising this sport. The incident took place on April 18 in a locality close to   off Chingrighata crossing on EM Bypass.
 
 Worse, when she reported the matter to her father, he too, was beaten up. According to locals, when the girl’s father — a local priest — tried to talk to the tormentors, aged between 14 and 16 years, he was beaten up and assaulted by them. The gang leader, however, is not a minor.
 
 The family finally approached the   on Monday. Within hours, cops nabbed the four juveniles and their gang leader Bijoy (18). Bijoy has been sent to a six-day of judicial custody while others were produced before a juvenile home. “We have taken action as per law. The complaint was treated seriously,” said DC (headquarters)  .
 
 “Even though the priest lay in pain and had an injury that made walking difficult, he hoped the accused would come to him and seek forgiveness. However, when no one turned up and his pain refused to subside, he approached us for legal action on April 23,” said an investigating officer.
 
 According to sources, the girl was returning home after practising boxing, these teenagers passed obscene and objectionable comments at her. When she objected, an argument broke out. The girl had then used her boxing skill to break her way out. This enraged the group, who then got together and hit her. The girl returned and narrated the entire incident to her father, who then stepped out. Unfortunately, the injury inflicted on the girl’s father was far more than the victim, claimed police sources.
 
 The cops said they will soon get the 15-year-old girl to record her confidential statement before the magistrate. “We have told her not to feel helpless. We are impressed with her bravery and have promised her all help,” said a Bidhannagar commissionarate official.
 
