BENGALURU: Soon, there will be no windows open for tipplers to surreptitiously   after stipulated hours of business in the city.

 Police are welding and sealing ventilators and other such openings that double as counters at wine stores and liquor vending units.
 
 At last count, cops had sealed off ventilators and exhaust fan niches in 134 shops across Bengaluru. These openings, police said, were being used as counters to sell liquor late into the night and the wee hours.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The crackdown comes in the wake of last month’s fire at a bar and restaurant in   which claimed five lives. The bar allegedly sold liquor through a trapdoor after hours, police said. Investigation revealed the bar had only one exit, instead of the prescribed two.
 
 
 
 
 One police inspector and two excise officials were suspended on charges of dereliction of duty in connection with the incident.
 
 A senior police officer told TOI jurisdictional inspectors have been given the responsibility of sealing all openings that could be used by liquor shops to conduct illegal business.
 
 “The home minister, at a meeting, directed that liquor joints that don’t follow time restrictions be shut down. Deputy commissioners of police were
 
 assigned the task of identifying vends that sell liquor late at night and early morning,” a senior police official said.
 
 Accordingly, policemen identified dozens of stores in areas like Chamarajpet, Mysuru Road (between   and  ), Tilaknagar, Siddapura, Outer Ring Road stretches in Banaswadi, Hennur and Kengeri, Magadi Road, Ramamurthynagar, Old Madras Road and Mahadevapura.
 
 After identifying the shops, police took welders with them to seal suspicious openings. “These shops had exploited all available avenues to sell liquor at night. In most cases, the buyer and seller wouldn’t even see each other’s face. Cash would be thrust into the opening and the purchaser would utter his brand. In no time, a hand from inside would collect the cash and deliver the product,” a police officer said.
 
 Confirming the action against 134 shops, home minister   told TOI the number of such sealed wine shops may rise. “During my interaction with police officials across ranks, we decided to act against such shops. We’ll continue our drive,” he said. Reddy said he’d hold a meeting with excise officials to bring more discipline among liquor store owners.
 
 
