THANE: A   and   were arrested by the Kasarvadavali police on Monday for allegedly running a fake call centre and duping   of thousands of dollars. The duo—Rakesh Kodwani (21), an engineer from Vadodara in Gujarat, and Jorwat Rajput (28) from Katheda Jawaja in Rajastan—posed as office-bearers of payday loan firms. They would offer loans to US citizens and seek a processing a fee, which they would pocket.

 
  
  
 Payday loans are small-dollar advances for emergency expenses. The loan is typically repaid on the borrower’s next payday. The lenders generally do not evaluate credit reports for loan eligibility and hence, they are easy to avail of. These loans are akin to what is offered by private money-lenders here for a high interest rate.
 
 Police said Kodwani and Rajput operated from a rented apartment at   at Ghodbunder Road and were using hi-tech gizmos.
 
 It is learnt that the two accused secured data of borrowers through their associates in the US and would make Voice over Internet Protocol (VOIP) calls through various softwares like eyebeam, x-lite and Skype to contact them.
 
 “The scammers posed as agents from the lending firms offering low-interest loans. Those who fell for the con were asked to pay processing fees. The victims would be asked to asked to buy iTune cards or international gift cards and share a 16-digit codes. Once the number was shared, the money would be withdrawn,” DCP Sunil Lokhande told TOI.
 
 A preliminary probe revealed that more people may be involved. “There are two more teams involved: One that sourced the data and the other is the redeemer which converts the 16-digit codes into cash,” said a source. Senior inspector Datta Dhole said that the arrested accused have confessed to their crime and admitted that they earned anywhere between $500-600 a day. A search of the laptops have revealed a list of 600 US citizens. Two laptops and four mobile phones were also recovered during the raid.
 
 “We are trying to find out how long they have been running the racket, how many US citizens were cheated and the amount involved. Our estimate is that they may have earned Rs 1 to Rs 2 lakh a month. This could be tip of the iceberg and a mega racket operating across cities could be unearthed,” Lokhande said.
 
