By: Aditya. Rishi

 Nitiraj Singh, 44, is giving the world’s secret superstars their first   break on his Facebook platform   Konnects and turning their homes, offices, streets, cars, and cribs into recording studios. Music industry, singing academies, and his own band didn’t accept him. Nitiraj took his pain and turned it into something beautiful.
 
 On Music Konnects, every person is a star and every person an audience, says Nitiraj. “From toddlers to nonagenarians, they all post their singing videos, sitting anywhere. It’s a big family that a few of us started with jamming (singers in practice) sessions at Gurgaon cafes in 2015 to bridge the gap between musicians and the audience.
 
 It is a troll-free highway. Croon, tap, dance, clap along, whether or not you can sing.”
 
 A music bug since school, college, and university days in Chandigarh, an engineer who went into MBA and now sells fresh air for a living, Nitiraj has heart of a Beatbox and mind of a maestro. His is a complex story of handsome looks, good voice, and bad luck.
 
 “Music was my first love,” Nitiraj says, “In times of sorrow, it kept the fountain of joy alive in me.” “Music is not in my blood. My parents are retired educationists from Panjab University. Engineering and medicine were the two choices they gave me. But they had kept a radio in my room. I’d get up at 6.30 in the morning and listen to it for half an hour before going to my school in Sector 16. At night, after the songs of Kishore Kumar lulled me to sleep, I’d imagine that his voice was mine and I was singing to an audience. My subconscious mind started believing this stuff of dreams.”
 
 Throughout his education at Punjab Engineering College, he would keep his music awards at the hostel, because if he brought any of those trophies home, it would tick off his parents, who had forbidden him to sing until he was settled in life.
 
 
 
 He got into University Business School and won the second-lead (duet singer) spot on its music team. On one occasion at Government Medical College, Patiala, when the lead (solo) singer was booed off stage for going off key, it fell upon Nitiraj and his duet partner, niece of a popular film actress of those times, to lift the spirits of the PU cheerleaders who had come 71 kilometres on motorcycles. The girl walked up to Nitiraj and said: “I can’t remember the lyrics.” How he pulled the team to first prize is a mystery.
 
 Four months from an MBA degree, he landed a job. Days later at a youth festival on the campus, his father caught him on stage, presenting a guest song, ‘Aate Jaate Khubsurat’. He was in dad’s broad-checked coat similar Rajesh Khanna’s jacket in the original sequence from 1977 movie Anurodh. “At a particular point in the song, I took out an actual reshmi rumaal (silk handkerchief) from the coat’s pocket like Rajesh Khanna does in the film, and it overwhelmed my dad, a fan of the actor,” Nitiraj says. “Anyway, my secret out, I went up to him and said I had a job and now I must learn music.”
 
 
 
 
 His father sent him to music professor Yashpal Sharma. Nitiraj, who had reached so far without learning to sing, faced his first audition. Senior student Upinder Verma, now Bollywood’s Uvie of ‘Hai Hai Jawani Le Doobi’ fame, was made his first teacher. Job, however, took him to Mumbai. Nitiraj realls: “I’d board the 7.52 local from Borivalli and doze off until the pungent smell of the Mahim nullah woke me up half way to Church Gate. I felt like a travelling salesman. I’d put on my Ray Bans and cry.”
 
 And when Mumbai had taken him, the company moved him to Delhi, where the day started at 11. Reigniting his desire to learn classical music, he auditioned before Shubha Mudgal’s husband, table maestro Aneesh Pradhan, for a seat at Gandharva Mahavidyalaya, and wept for three days upon rejection. Uvie, who had reached Mumbai, referred him to his guru in Chandigarh, Harvinder Singh, who agreed to give him three weeks’ worth of training on his two-day fortnightly visits to parents.
 
 
 
 
 For five years, he learnt the Agra Gharana style of Hindustani vocal music from Harvinder Singh. The day tears came to his eyes during riyaaz and he called up his guru to know why, he came to know about ‘sachcha sur’ (true note) that connects a singer to the Almighty.
 
