MANGALURU: Earlier known as Ullal, Mangaluru constituency has been represented by minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs U T Khader since 2007, following the death of his father U T Fareed.

 
 Khader, a three-time winner, is pitted against BJP’s Santhosh Kumar Rai. In all these years, the BJP has won only once from Ullal in 1994 when K Jayaram Shetty was the victor. Congress has represented the segment 11 times, while CPI(M) won it in 1962 and 1983.
 
 
  
 
 Sea erosion at Someshwar, Mukkachery, Ullal and other places has always been a major issue in the constituency. Though the government spent Rs 223.3 crore to address the problem, it has persisted with a few houses getting damaged due to rough sea last year.
 
 Most parts of the constituency lie by the sea, but many of them don’t have access to drinking water. The government has earmarked Rs 170 crore to build a new dam across Netravati river to provide drinking water to Mangaluru, but work is yet to begin.
 
 While all major roads in Ullal town are well maintained, interior areas lack infrastructure. Traffic snarls at Thokkottu, a junction on Kochi–Panvel National Highway, make driving a Herculean task. Seven years after work on Thokkottu flyover began, it’s yet to be completed. The constituency lacks a government multi-specialty hospital and underground drainage work which commenced five years ago is yet not over.
 
 There is no dearth of development issues, but communal topics garner all space in election rhetoric. “Politics of appeasement has only led to an increase in crime rate,” says Shiva Prasad, a businessman. “People, especially those in rural areas, have a tough time during peak summer as a multi-village drinking water scheme, which the previous BJP government had proposed, is still on paper,” says Dinesh N, another voter.
 
 Lack of infrastructure and drinking water is playing a major role in BJP’s campaign against Congress. “My constituents know me closely and have seen development works taken up by me,” said Khader.
 
 “We will find solutions to all major problems in the constituency if BJP comes to power. All communities in Mangaluru are united behind BJP,” says Rai.
 
 
