LUDHIANA: It was a narrow escape for labourers working in a garment factory —   on   — when a major fire incident was reported in the factory on Wednesday afternoon. The incident created panic in the area, and people residing in the adjoining house came out of their houses when it started developing cracks. The cracks were visible in the factory as well. It was a tough time for fire brigade employees as well, as the flames had engulfed the entire structure of the factory. Fire brigade officials received information at around 2.15pm, followed by which fire tenders from all fire stations were rushed to the spot. 

 An eye-witness and labourer in the factory —   from   — said it was at around 2pm when a sudden fire erupted in the factory production area, and gradually it engulfed the entire building. He said though it was lunch time and most labourers were outside the factory, four of them were on the first floor, and when the fire started, people raised an alarm, creating panic among them. He said four of them jumped from the first floor and sustained injuries as well.
 
 However, fire officials denied any such thing, and claimed nobody received injuries in the incident. Assistant divisional fire officer Bhupinder Singh Sandhu said the exact reasons behind the fire incident and loss were still not known, and almost 10 fire tenders were stationed to control the fire. He said fire tenders made around 50 rounds to control the flames. Fire officials first of all broke the shutters of the godown to enter the building, so that they could control the flames. Fire brigade employees were earlier controlling the fire entering the factory, but when cracks appeared, the officials told everybody to vacate the factory as it could collapse. 
 
 
 
 It seems the fire department has not learnt lessons from the previous building collapse incident at   on November 24, as the area was not cordoned off and people were standing at the site, while capturing pictures on their smartphones. In the incident at Suffian Chowk also, there was no check on the entry of people roaming around, and this was the reason the exact number of people trapped inside remained suspicious. 
 
 The fire brigade had to struggle to fetch water to control the fire, because the factory was located at a distant place, and they were refilling fire tenders from Sunder Nagar and Chand Cinema fire stations. It took almost half an hour for each fire tender to reach the fire site. 
 
