In a shocking turn of events,   and  , the lead couple of ' ... Dekhi Nahi Kahi', have quit the TV show at the same time, alleging inhuman treatment by the producers. Pranav and Jyoti conveyed their decision to the makers in the first week of January, mentioning that they will serve a notice period of two months. The actors have also approached Cine and TV Artists Association ( ) to look into the matter. 

 Talking about their year-long ordeal, Jyoti tells us, “We have been exploited since the beginning of the shoot, which commenced in January 2017. We have been working for 18 hours each day. There would be no food, tea or even water during these extended hours. Even though it would get late, they never checked on how I was commuting alone at that hour. There have also been times when I have been called back mid-way, to shoot. The environment is so negative that we don’t wish to continue on the show. ”
 
 She adds, “There are no proper safety measures or consideration for the cast. I have been suspended in the air with a unit member holding the harness. I could have fallen. On another occasion, I had to fall so the director requested for a mattress to cushion the fall. However, the unit failed to get one and I had to fall without it on an uneven stone-laden ground. I hurt my back in the process. Another time, there was a fire sequence and the only window in the room was covered, as we had to shoot a night sequence. I was inside the room, which was filled with smoke. I was throwing up incessantly. I even lost my voice and had to be hospitalised.”
 
 Jyoti adds, “While my doctor advised bed rest for four days, I was made to report to the shoot the very next day and had to scream during the shoot. We have nothing against the channel and in fact, are grateful to them for the opportunity. The problem is with the production house and the inhuman treatment meted out by them.” 
 
 On his part, Pranav says, “We have been treated worse than animals and are traumatised. Just a day ago, I reported to the shoot despite being unwell. As per the guidelines, one needs a 12-hour break between two shifts. However, I can vouch that we have reported back to the set within five hours at least 250 days in a year. Both Jyoti and I have undergone stress test as advised by CINTAA, and we have been diagnosed with depression, stress and anxiety.” 
 
 Sushant Singh, CINTAA general secretary, tells BT, “We have seen their contracts with the production house, and they are nothing short of bonded labour. The medical reports clearly state that they are under severe stress and depression, and they have been prescribed medication. This is a glaring example of the inhuman working conditions faced by our members. However, we are obligated to hear both sides of the story, hence any further action will be taken only after the due process. Our Care Committee member Nupur Alankar visited the set and spoke to the producers. We will convene a meeting with all parties concerned and take every necessary step to alleviate the actors’ suffering.”
 
 On the other hand, Jatin Sethi, one of the three producers of the show, says, “I am not aware of any such development; these are just rumours. Pranav and Jyoti are shooting with us. There could be a technical issue, but nothing more. I haven't been contacted by CINTAA yet.”
 
 
