AHMEDABAD: In a bid to increase the competitiveness of minority community youths for government jobs and civil service positions, the Gujarat   Committee has decided to use the   Haj House — a temporary abode of Haj pilgrims — as a training centre. The first batch of students is expected to commence their training on May 14.

 The Haj committee had earlier in January conducted a pilot project for this initiative in which it had trained around 135 students. But the new batch will witness experienced coaching faculties, accommodation facilities for the students and audio-visual presentation like it is usually conducted at other training institutes, claimed members of the Haj committee. 
 
 M A  , chairman of the Haj committee, said that Haj House, located in the Kalupur area of the city, remains vacant except for the holy month of Haj pilgrimage. 
 
 “We thought of how to make use of it creatively so that members of the Muslim community can benefit. So we decided to give some opportunities of learning to our youths to channelize their energy for betterment of the community and the nation,” said Qadri.
 
 He added, “We discussed the idea of training youths for government competitive exams like Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC) and  , and the idea was hailed by all. We decided to begin our full-fledged batch this year.”
 
 Qadri said that selection of the youths will be done on the basis of merit after conducting an entrance exam.
 
 I M Shaikh, secretary of Haj Committee, said that they are first thinking of providing training to face Gujarat civil services exam and after conducting the course successfully for the state level exams, they will focus upon the   (UPSC).
 
 “We will give 5-month training to the students after which they can get a class-1 and class-2 job in Gujarat government. After succeeding in class-1 exams, we will try to modify the course further for the UPSC exams,” said Shaikh.
 
 Shaikh said they will not charge a single penny for training, but they will have to charge Rs 600 per month for lodging.
 
 
