Pune: The cybercrime cell of the city police arrested a man for duping a software engineer of Rs 25,000 after promising her the services of a domestic help.

 The techie had got in touch with the suspect through a web portal, and she had paid Rs 25,000 for services of a maid. However, when no maid was sent, she lodged a police complaint.
 
 It has now emerged that the suspect, identified as Vikram Atar Singh (31) of Wakad, had duped over a 100 persons in the city and Pimpri Chinchwad. Singh had also cheated a woman from the Airport area and with his arrest, police have also solved that case.
 
 A team headed by Sudhir Hiremath, the deputy commissioner of police (cyber & economics), and inspector Jayram Paigude arrested Singh and case against him was registered with the Chatushrungi police station.
 
 Paigude said Singh used to claim that he ran a placement agency and specialized in supplying educated hotel staff, trained nurses and efficient maids. He had shared his cellphone numbers on a web portal. “Many citizens, especially techies, look for information about maids and nurses on the web,” he added.
 
 Singh used to download photos of poor girls from social media sites. “He would share these photographs with his ‘clients’ using an internet-enabled mobile messaging service. However, he always demanded the fees in advance,” Paigude said. Singh used to charge his victims between Rs 10,000 and Rs 25,000.
 
 In order to avert suspicion, he often changed his cellphone number. Police have recovered three cellphones, one debit card, nine cheque books and other documents from his residence. Paigude said that in last four to five years, Singh has changed his address several times. Earlier, he was operating from Dhankawadi, then he shifted to Hinjewadi, then Wakad and Chikhali.
 
 “Using Singh's phone record, we contacted people and realised that he had duped many people. So far, 100 people have approached us,” the inspector said.
 
 Police have requested people to come forward and lodge complaints against Singh.
 
 
