MUMBAI: A new set of global guidelines on managing diabetes that aim to replace those followed for over three decades has stirred up a row within the medical community. 

 Doctors in India feel the  , which recommend relaxing   targets, will not only lead to serious complications in diabetics but also confusion in treatment protocol. They advise that these should be ignored for Indians. 
 
  
 The controversial norm relates to relaxing the long-term blood sugar target, hemoglobin A1C (HbA1c) which, via a blood test, gives an estimate of a person’s blood sugar level average over the past few months. Generally, an HbA1c of 6.5% indicates diabetes.
 
 There were over 72 million cases of diabetes in India in 2017, according to International Diabetes Federation. 
 
  College of Physicians, an organisation of internal medicine physicians, has recommended recently in the medical journal, Annals of Internal Medicine, that clinicians should aim to achieve an HbA1c level between 7% and 8% in most   with type 2 diabetes as against the traditional 6.5 to 7% which has been followed over decades. The recommendation is leading to a conflict in views amongst doctors, with certain associations opposing it. Doctors here say the guideline of lowering the blood sugar target cannot be binding and should be ignored as diabetes in India is more aggressive, and, hence, riddled with complications. They say these recommendations should not be applicable here as India has its own three advisory bodies—the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research), RSDDI (Research Society For The Study of Diabetes in India) and API (Association of Physicians of India)—which are more tuned in to Indian cases.
 
 Anoop Misra, chairman of Delhi-based Fortis-C-DOC (Centre of Excellence For Diabetes, Metabolic Diseases and Endocrinology), said, “In reality, Indian physicians continue to follow US-based guidelines, hence ACP guidelines may have substantial impact in India. If blood sugar control is loosened (as advised by ACP), more patients in India will suffer from complications, the burden of which is already high. We should ignore these, and stick to previous time-tested glycosylated hemoglobin limit of control of 7%.”
 
 Others concur the guidelines cannot be standardized because of several differences in lifestyle, physiology and food habits. Dr Shashank Joshi, endocrinologist and diabetologist who consults at Mumbai’s Lilavati Hospital, said, “Asian Indians who develop diabetes are insulin-resistant and have different phenotype (observable characteristics, physiological properties, or behavior) compared to those in the western world. None of the North American or European guidance are applicable for Indians, Chinese or Asian geographies.” Also, since Asians consume more carbohydrates, their response to medicines and doses is different. 
 
 Says Dr Rajeev Chawla, president-elect of RSSDI 2018 and senior consultant diabetologist, “Pharmacotherapy using oral or injectable agents may be used in addition to lifestyle modification therapies to achieve a target glycosylated hemoglobin target of less than 7% for all diabetics as far as possible to prevent complications.” The RSSDI is the largest organisation of doctors in Asia engaged in diabetes care with over 7,000 members. The guidelines were first released in 2015 and revised in January 2018 based on Indian evidence.
 
