Bengaluru: Citing that Friday will be the last working day of the assembly, the Congress government pushed through five bills though less than 20 members were present in the house late Thursday evening.

 The bills approved included those pertaining to three new universities, revenue land and handing over all Bengaluru lakes to the minor irrigation department.
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah and opposition leaders Jagadish Shettar and H D Kumaraswamy were present in the house when the bills were tabled and passed.
 
 At one point when the bills were being considered, opposition parties had more members in the house and even joked about defeating the bill on making Babasaheb Ambedkar School of Economics (BASE) an independent university. The bill, though, was eventually passed without objections. BASE has been allocated Rs 250 crore.
 
 BJP MLA from Sringeri D N Jeevaraj said: “Having been the chief whip of BJP previously, I can calculate that we have 18 MLAs from the opposition and 17 from the ruling party in the house. We can defeat the bill if we want to. Do not take the opposition parties lightly.”
 
 The other private university bill pertained to setting up of Shri Sathya Sai University for Human Excellence, with both the opposition and ruling parties lauding the private trust of Prashanthi Balamandira for proposing to headquarter its university at Navanihal village of Kamalapura, Kalaburgi. The university has been given the leeway to start campuses or regional and study centres anywhere in the state after five years of establishment.
 
 The bill on private university, Amity, which is based out of New Delhi and has nine universities spread across the country, saw an exchange of words, with the BJP alleging that the varsity was being set up under “pressure”.
 
 However, higher education minister Basavaraj Rayareddy argued that during the BJP tenure, 22 private universities were approved and 16 of them were located in and around Bengaluru.
 
 Lake bill repealed
 
 The assembly passed a bill seeking to hand over Bengaluru’s lakes to the minor irrigation department for better maintenance.
 
 In the process, the state has now repealed the Karnataka Lake Conservation and Development authority (KLCDA) and brought the maintenance of all waterbodies in the state under the Tank Development Authority.
 
 Minor irrigation minister T B Jayachandra said the move was to ensure streamlining of development and maintenance of lakes in Bengaluru as there was a lot of confusion over who will control them. “The lakes were being neglected due to various agencies controlling them. With this process, there will be one single management authority for lakes in the state under the minor irrigation department,” he said.
 
 Boost for Pilikula 
 
 The government has set up the Pilikula Development Authority in Dakshina Kannada district to oversee and conserve the biodiversity, heritage and culture of the Western Ghats and coastal Karnataka.
 
 State extends cut-off date 
 
 The government on Thursday extended the cut-off date for regularization of unauthorised occupation of certain lands. The Karnataka Land Revenue (Amendment) Bill 2018 will allow conversion of unauthorized occupation from January 1, 2005 instead of the earlier April 14, 1990.
 
 
