Zirakpur: The comeback of long unscheduled power cuts with the onset of summer is worrying hundreds of residents, who have no clue how the state authorities will solve the problem.

 Residents said unscheduled power cuts during summer also affected the water supply to housing societies, which had forced them to dig bore-wells. 
 
 They want to know why the authorities concerned are giving permission for new commercial buildings when there isn’t enough electricity for the existing shops, offices, and houses. Davinder Singh of Silver city Extension in   said: “The length of unscheduled power cuts is 8 to 10 hours for the past one week, and because of this, the water supply to our houses is also affected. My housing society had an electricity-run booster pump to draw groundwater, and without power, we can’t get any water.”
 
 Objecting to the permission given to new commercial buildings, he said: “Why are the civic authorities not cutting down on these permissions when they have insufficient electricity for the town? New projects should be approved only after meeting the existing demand for electricity.” Atul Jolly of Sunny Enclave, Zirakpur, said his society got its water supply from the nearby Preet Colony. Unscheduled power cuts have forced Sunny Enclave to borrow water or beg for it. The society’s individual power backup units are too small to work for long periods of outage.
 
 Resident Taj Hooda said the power supply to the housing societies had weakened also because of inferior wires and underground cables. Yashpal Khatpal of Ansals Woodbury Apartments, Zirakpur, said: “As the summer is getting more and more intense, these unscheduled power cuts have become a big issue for the residents. There are many housing societies like us.”
 
 The rising mercury and unscheduled power cuts in almost all parts of the town mean that people who can afford generators or inverters can survive the heat somehow, while others, who are in majority, have no option but to live in discomfort. 
 
 For the housewives, especially, power outages have affected household work badly. The authorities conerned fail to understand that every house can’t have an inverter to deal with power cuts.
 
 There is no fixed time for load shedding. People find it difficult to plan their daily activities, since they don't know where it will take five or eight hours before the supply of electricity resumes.
 
 On Wednesday, there was no electricity for at least eight hours in the localities of Baltala. People say maintenance is just a pretext to to impose power custs on the m.
 
 
