NAGPUR: Whether a woman should be aware of everything her   knows? ‘No’, said Nagpur bench of Bombay high court while delivering a ruling and directing the   to pay maintenance to his second wife.

 While rejecting the husband’s plea, the HC directed him to pay monthly maintenance of Rs 1,500 to his second wife as directed by the Washim JMFC on March 3 last year and later upheld by the sessions court there on August 19 under CrPC’s Section 125.
 
 The wife first moved to the JMFC for the maintenance contending that the husband kept her in dark about his first marriage.
 
 The man then knocked the high court doors challenging sessions court verdict contending that he had informed wife’s father about his first marriage and the latter must have informed his daughter before granting nod for their matrimony.
 
 “Knowledge of woman’s father can’t be said to be her knowledge. The father must admit that he had informed daughter about subsistence of husband’s first marriage. The daughter should also admit she was so informed by father. These admissions are absent. Whatever has been admitted by the wife’s father can’t be conceived to be her personal knowledge,” Justice Sunil Shukre ruled.
 
 While quoting Supreme Court’s verdict in Badshah versus Urmila Badshah Godse of 2014, the HC observed that as the wife was kept in dark about husband’s first marriage, he couldn’t be allowed to take advantage of own wrong and say wife wasn’t entitled for maintenance.
 
 “No evidence was brought on record to prove that when they entered into wedlock in 1995, the wife possessed knowledge of subsistence of husband’s first marriage. However, as he admitted that daughter born out of second marriage was from him, his contention that the wife is not entitled for maintenance can’t be accepted unless he brings cogent evidence about first marriage and also about its subsistence when second was performed,” Justice Shukre said. He added that he could have examined first wife to prove his contentions.
 
 While pointing out towards wife’s father, the petitioner argued that he was made aware of his first marriage. The HC, however, clarified that it couldn’t notice any such submission in father’s cross-examination. “The only admission that father made was that he was aware of petitioner’s first marriage, but didn’t know about its date or year. Unless, the year or date is specified by a witness, no conclusion about the marriage being first in point of time can be made,” the judge held.
 
 
