MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court sought a response from the superintendent of police (coastal) in Ramanathapuram district on a plea which said that authorities had failed to take action against deep sea and mechanised fishing vessels for indulging in fishing activity in the area demarcated for traditional fishermen (country boat).

 G Arul and T Salangai of Ramanathapuram, M Mohammed Meerasahib of Thanjavur and T   of   districts jointly filed a public interest litigation (PIL) on behalf of traditional fishermen in their districts concerned. 
 
 They sought direction to the officials of fisheries department of the central and state governments, district collectors concerned and superintendent of police (coastal), Mandapam in Ramanathapuram to take action against deep sea and mechanised vessels which violated the norms relating time schedule for fishing, to patrol the area earmarked for country boat fishermen from being transgressed by those vessels and to inspect them. They alleged that there are number of unregistered deep sea and mechanised vessels indulging in fishing activities. 
 
 The petitioner said, according to the   Marine Fishing Regulation Act, vessels having engine power above 150   and hull measuring above 20m is fore deep sea and the those having engine above 20HP and below 150HP and hull measuring 10 to 20m in length are classified as mechanised.
 
 Catamaran, country boat, vallam and canoe, whether fitted with sail or outboard motor below 20HP and hull measuring less than 10m in length fall under the third category of traditional fishermen. The area of operation for third category boats is up to three nautical miles, for mechanised vessels it is beyond three nautical miles and up to 13 nautical miles and for deep sea fishing vessels it is beyond 12 nautical miles. 
 
 Deep sea and mechanised vessels are liable to be registered under the Act. Besides, there is a time schedule for fishing for those vessels, as per which they are supposed to fishing from 5am to 5pm. Contrary to the norms, those deep sea and mechanised vessels engage in indiscriminate fishing every day and cause damage to the nets cast by the traditional fishermen in the sea. TNN 
 
 
