NEW DELHI: India will host   President   to mark 45 years of diplomatic relations between the two countries, both victims of Chinese territorial aggression, official sources said on Saturday. What’s remarkable is that the Vietnam President will arrive soon after a visit by the country’s PM Nguyen Xuan Phuc, who will be here this month as one of the chief guests for the Republic Day parade as well as for the Asean-India commemorative summit. 

 The back-to-back visits, sources here said, will underscore the fact that the southeast Asian country, mired in maritime disputes with Beijing in the South China Sea, has emerged in the recent past as the linchpin of India’s Act East Policy. Defence and security ties form the most important pillar of this strategic partnership. Quang, along with Phuc and   of Vietnam general secretary Nguyen Phu Trong, forms the country’s famous governance troika.
 
 Quang’s visit will also be significant because he is second in the hierarchy of the communist party and is likely to take over as the general secretary, the most powerful position in the country, after a few years. It is perhaps a sign of the significance the two countries attach to this relationship that the 45th anniversary of the establishment of full diplomatic relations will see a presidential visit.
 
 In 2012, it was the then junior external affairs minister   who visited   to mark the 40th anniversary. It must be mentioned here though that high-level visits between India and Vietnam preceded the NDA government, which changed the name of India’s outreach to the East from ‘Look East’ to ‘Act East’ in 2014. 
 
 The then Vietnam President Truong Tan Sang visited India in 2011 and it was followed by one by general secretary Trong in 2013. The two countries have consistently focused on enhancing defence ties ever since they signed an MoU for defence cooperation in 2009. Foreign minister  , while on a visit to Indonesia on Saturday, reiterated India’s position that respect for international law, notably UNCLOS (United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea), was imperative to ensure that the Indo-Pacific waters remained free of all “traditional and non-traditional” threats. 
 
 Hanoi has long urged India to raise its profile in the region, with focus on the security situation, as it believes that peace and security in the South China Sea is “an integral part of the larger Indo-Pacific region”. 
 
 Accusing China of having changed the status quo in the South China Sea through the construction of artificial islands and installation of military equipment, Vietnam’s ambassador to India Ton Sinh Thanh had told TOI recently that people could see for themselves if the situation there was similar to the one witnessed at Doklam. India is currently training Vietnamese naval officers and air force personnel. It has also announced a $500 million line of credit for Hanoi to facilitate more defence purchases from India.
