My very ordinary career got an extraordinary twist after I won   (KPY),” smiles  . “I was just a corporate professional before I landed in KPY. And my life underwent a seachange after my win. I now have some excellent films in hand,” he says. 

 The 27-year-old comedian who debuted in a Tamil supernatural comedy film, Saravanan Irukka Bayamaen, in which he acted as Udhayanidhi Stalin’s friend, soon stepped into another big comedy horror film, Aaram Thinai, directed by   C. The film expected to release in March. “I am playing a comedian in the movie. It is totally different from any other normal comedy roles. The movie is going to be a mash up of both, comedy and horror, which will enthral and frighten the audience at the same time,” he says.   that, he’s got himself a lead role in Dhurvan, which will be directed by  . The cast and crew of Dhruvan is yet to be finalised, but Kuraishi is happy at having bagged this role.
 
 For, he says, most directors he approached rejected him. “Post my KPY win, I thought of acting in films. And so, I began to approach filmmakers. But guess what...,” he pauses... “Over eight directors rejected me outright. They weren’t even willing to give me the lead comedian’s role, as they felt that I might dominate the protagonist of the film with my good looks,” he says with a straight face. “But they said they were ready to offer me two to three scenes in their films, but I wasn’t interested in that,” he adds. 
 
 Kuraishi earned quite a name for himself with his versatile mimicry talent throughout the season of KPY he participated in. When he won the finals, he received his award from the former winner of the Vijay TV reality show,  . “He is the best I have ever known, a real star. I ran into him at quite a few shooting spots after KPY. He is very down-to-earth and a person one can learn a lot from. Whenever we meet, he appreciates my performances in my shows and movies. I feel quite nice and am thankful to him for his feedback,” says Kuraishi.
 
 
