GURUGRAM: Several students, who sat for their   X and XII Haryana boards exams this year, have written poetry while a few others have put notes of Rs 100/200 in their answersheets in a bid to pass the exams, said examiners who are checking the answersheets in four centres in the city. 

 TOI had ran a campaign in March, exposing chit gangs operating in the city. 
 
 English teacher Dipti Lattar, who is checking papers at Senior Secondary Government Girls’ School, Jacobpura, said, “While checking the Class X answersheets, I came across a student who has written that if he passes, he will give me a party as well as Rs 600. He has also written down his phone number on which I am supposed to reach him to get the same.” The teacher added that the student jotted down the questions as answers. “I gave the student a big zero,” she said. 
 
 In some answersheets, students have put Rs 100 or Rs 200 notes as gifts to the examiners. “What will we do with this money? The checking has been done based on what the student has written. We have deposited the money with the board,” said Lattar.
 
 In many answersheets, students have written down poetry.  , a teacher of  , said, “When I was checking the Hindi paper, I found out that many students have written poetry in place of answers.” One of the poems in a Class XII answersheet read, “Human deeds should be such that if Yamraj arrives, he has to say ‘you can ride on the buffalo while I walk’.” In a desperate bid, a Class X student has tucked a note into her history answersheet, saying, “My name is Chitra. If you ask for my life, I will give it to you.” She also added, “Writing history is in my family.”
 
 Ashok Kumar, a teacher of chemistry at Government Senior Secondary School, Basai, said, “I got an answersheet in which a student had written poems. Some of the poems are well written. If only the students studied, instead of writing poems, they would have passed.” 
 
 Madhu Bala, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Jacobpura, said, “I feel that students are not serious enough when they sit for the  .” In 10-20% of the answersheets, the examiners come across poetry. The checking of papers will be completed by April 20.
 
 
