JAISALMER:   will soon become the eighth city of state to get air connectivity. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the construction works at Barmer refinery, now preparations have begun for starting direct air service to Barmer. After the approval for civil airport,   ( ) team had visited Barmer and took stock of preparations under regional connectivity scheme. Around 1,100 bighas of land near Uttarlai has also been identified earlier on which civil airport will come up. The team from Jaipur spoke to district administration and Air Force officers.

 On the lines of Jodhpur, this airport will be prepared. Terminal building, car parking including all facilities will be available here. With the starting of work at refinery, the work of oil exploration is gaining momentum. In the first phase, there will be temporary civil airport and flights will operate from Air Force airport. An MoU has been signed with Zoom Air company for providing air services.
 
 According to information, with starting of airport in Barmer, number of investors from various parts of the world is expected to go up. Barmer will be the 8th city to get air connectivity after Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Udaipur and Kishangarh. Initially, facility of 50-seater plane will be available.
 
 AAI Jaipur AGM Manoj Jain said preparations are on for starting air service in Barmer. In this regard, he had come to Barmer and discussed with air force and district administration on various issues related to civil airport and air services. The airport will come up in four-five years. Till the airport becomes functional, flights will operate from Air Force’s Uttarlai airport and in first phase 50-seater plane will be available.
 
 Barmer district collector Shiv Prasad Nakate said AAI team from Jaipur had discussions with him and soon air service is expected to start. He said requirement of 100 bighas of land has been asked for and action is being taken in this regard. People of Barmer will benefit with starting of air service.
 
 Barmer-Jaisalmer MP Sona Ram Chaudhary had also raised a question to   minister Jayant Sinha in Lok Sabha recently for starting flight services in Barmer to which minister replied that implementing agency has awarded Delhi-Uterlai (Barmer distrct)- Delhi route to Zoom Air in second round of bidding.
 
 
