LUDHIANA: Making an appeal to the general public to give them due respect, instead of manhandling and abusing them, civic employees organized a gate rally for more than two hours on Friday at the D Zone office of   against the recent incidents of violent attacks on them. They threatened to go on mass leave or strike in case the incidents did not stop.

 Recently, three such incidents were reported where MC employees faced manhandling by defaulters. Earlier, one building inspector was allegedly thrashed in   when he tried to stop an illegal construction. Then, a tiff was reported between the building branch staff and mediapersons, and on Thursday, three Tehbazaari employees were allegedly beaten up in  , when they tried to catch hold of a tempo carrying promotional hoardings.
 
 Members of the   also handed over a memorandum to MC commissioner  . They raised the demand that there should be power with the MC police force to register FIRs at their level, and police posts should be established in each zone. Employees claimed it would help create pressure on defaulters, and such incidents would stop. They also demanded MC to give its full support to them in case they encountered any problem.
 
 Members of the committee assured civic employees of hiring advocates to help them in case they get trapped in some problem, and even the fee of the advocate would be paid by the committee. Union president   made an appeal to the public, and said employees were providing all the basic amenities to residents. Therefore, they should be given due respect. He said in case such incidents happen again in future, employees would be forced to go on strike, and then people would not get any facility.
 
 Meanwhile, Jaskiran Singh advised employees to stay away from issuing any statements in the media. He also asked them to perform their duty with sincerity, keeping the welfare of public in mind. Civic officials too advised employees to work honestly and with full devotion. Only then would the public respect them. They said the public should be dealt on priority, and they should avoid taking bribes from people. 
 
 
