AHMEDABAD: A Sanskrit text titled ‘Gudhartha Tatvaloka,’ written by Dharmadatt   (Bachcha Jha) a century ago, is widely considered a tough tome in Navya-nyaya (Neo-logical) discipline of Indian philosophy and logic, not only due to its language but also the ideas within.

 In the death centenary anniversary of Jha, a young Jain monk took up the challenge to take the seminal work to scholars and masses alike. The yearlong exercise finally took the shape of ‘Yasholata,’ containing 90,000 verses making it the largest commentary in Sanskrit according to the publishers. The ‘Gudhartha Tatvaloka,’ had 900 verses.
 
  
  The commentary, written by  , is dedicated to his guru,  . The 14-book set, published by Umra Jain Shwetambar Murtipujak Sangh, was launched in Rajkot in a major event on April 25. The President, the Vice-President, the PM of India and the CM of   sent their messages and appreciation for the path-breaking work. The 21-year-old monk had taken ‘diksha’ at the age of eight. His father, mother and sister, from Ahmedabad, also followed his path soon after.
 
 “During our studies, I came across the famed tome, considered to be comprehended by less than 10 persons across the globe. I thus decided to study it and write a commentary that can take the work to an wider audience. One of the purposes of the exercise is also to revive the famed Indian logic system which is studied not only in India but also by foreign scholars,” said Muni Bhaktiyashvijayji.
 
 What makes the original work so compelling? The monk said that Sanskrit has an intrinsic structure and beauty that can be used by experts to pack in a lot of information in few words — something which Bachcha Jha was expert at. “It takes multiple paragraphs to convey the meaning intended by the author in one stanza. Moreover, logic is a topic which works completely independent of religion and has very wide applications in multiple disciplines. The book is a treasure trove of such expositions,” he added.
 
 The monk, in the line of  , has simultaneously completed the Sanskrit and Gujarati editions. The sangh members said that they have sent the work to Sanskrit scholars across the globe to take it to larger platform. 
 
 
