Pradeep Dadha, known as the big daddy of the pharma business, is far too fancy in the way that he entertains; flies the high skies in his private jet and hosts exquisite masquerade parties. But what’s even more amusing is his new tie-up with the Baba of Stretches — Baba Ramdev. Dadha’s company, which also deals with  , is now retailing Baba Ramdev’s ‘magic potions’ of health and vitality.

 
 Sources say that pampered princess Rayane, the well-brought up daughter of   and Sarath kumar, is an expert at planning romantic surprises for her cricketer husband Mithun. From   dates to candle-lit dinners by the Thames, this recently married girl pulls out every stop to capture that perfect smile of her husband, who is soft spoken and otherwise camera-shy. Sources say that the two, who even work out together, are planning their next big adventure. 
 
 
 Why can’t some women just keep their hands and glances to themselves? Last heard, these two hunky hoteliers are the gush-topic at every girly do. Vikram Cotah and Vijai Singh are two men who know their appeal and often play to the galleries, too. Pretending not to notice, yet soaking in all the admiration is what makes them sexier. At a recent fashion show where Vikram was modelling, his tongue-out pose had many a woman faint and they had to be revived with a shot of tequila! 
 
 
 This hotelier, who is known for his undying desire for society babes, it seems also ends each of his dates on a terrible note to avoid any emotional baggage. We hear that the man, who woos his women with designer bags, perfumes and even jewellery, picks a fight at the end of the romantic weekend or week, depending on how long the woman can keep his attention. Married to a soft-spoken lady who lives with him in a joint family, this roving-eyed romantic kills it all with a drunken fight or planned attempt to ensure his fling never calls him again. He goes back home to a peaceful sleep, knowing he’s had his share of horizontal partying and the party has well and truly ended. 
 
 
 This 4ft-something socialite, known for her excessive partying ways and self-inviting herself to the big dos around town, has earned a new tag. Folks have started enquiring if Bagvati is also invited. And if she is, they are avoiding the event totally. It seems she requests for lipstick or some cosmetic from unsuspecting women in loos and in dimly lit events and in a slick way, steals money or something valuable. Last heard, some event managers are thinking of completely striking her off their guest list because in any case, this lady doesn’t just gate crash, but also brings her plus-one. 
 
 
 Do you know that there are these three inimitable socialites, thanks to their patchy makeup and over-the-top phone accessories, who always make a statement? It seems they regularly prance around Burma Bazaar’s many phone shops to buy their ‘designer’ phone cases.
 
 
 It seems a leading spa chain, headed by a dynamic lady, is considering legal action against a client who harasses its staff with delayed appointments and often picking up fights to keep the salon open till very late. And the best part is, she always pretends to be unhappy with the service when the time comes to pay up. It seems this mouthy lady,who’s been thrown out of every kitty club in town, and known for her controversies more than the ‘social’ work she does, isn’t worried as this has been her way of life for over seven years.
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own) 
 
 
 
  
  
 
