ZIRAKPUR: This town is becoming another encroachment-eaten part of the Tricity, while the municipal council doesn’t seem to be doing anything about it. On Thursday (April 5), residents had requested the   deputy commissioner for an urgent meeting to discuss this issue.

 They claim to have been raising the issue of encroachment with the area officials for six-to-eight months now without any sign of an action. The MC records show that it had orders to take police support to remove the encroachment but kept delaying the matter. With encroachment, crime has also increased in the town. There’s a spurt in thefts reported from the housing societies of  .
 
 
 Unified welfare association president   said: “We have had a number of meetings with the civic authorities on the issue, and even official orders are out to remove all encroachment from the public areas, yet we see no action. The residents have even shared written suggestions with the civic authorities many times, in the hope they will take action before it’s so late that the entire Zirakpur is under encroachment.”
 
 During a visit to   and the VIP Road, the TOI team found that street vendors had put up stalls in the parking lots of various markets. It leads to traffic chaos in these areas every evening. The commuters are left with no option but to park their vehicles on roadsides. Recently, the MC widened the VIP Road but encroachment nullified any gain.
 
 Pedestrians complain of regular problems in getting through the market, since the vendors have left no free space. A residentsaid: “There already are no footpaths and the street vendors have narrowed the roads further, pushing pedestrians right in the way of traffic. During the widening of the road, the residents had proposed building the footpaths. Even vehicles are parked on the roadsides, leaving hardly any place to walk.”
 
  of Gulmohar Trends housing society said: “The encroachment around the residential societies has increased and the civic authorities are not acting upon it. There is no garbage collection system or public safety. Our guests ridicule us for buying a house in ‘a slum instead of an urban centre’.”
 
  of Dhakoli says that last week, when he was away, thieves struck at his house. “Security cameras captured what seemed like people from the neighbourhood slum. Four years ago, there was another theft on the same floor and even method of breaking in was the same. Police need to control the crime rate because insecurity is mounting in the area.
 
