BHAGALPUR: The   (TMBU) will review the cancellation of former law minister in Delhi government and AAP MLA Jitendra Singh Tomar’s LLB degree, after the Patna high court sought an information from the   authorities whether Tomar was given the opportunity to place his view points before the university as part of natural justice or not. 

 The high court has sought a report from the TMBU registrar in connection with the case filed by Tomar challenging the cancellation of his LLB degree by the varsity and his right to fair hearing, which he claimed was infringed. The high court also asked the TMBU to file a counter affidavit besides the copy of proceedings and chargesheet vis-à-vis case filed by the TMBU against Tomar.
 
 In the backdrop, Tomar along with his lawyer also met TMBU registrar Ashok Kumar Jha recently and placed his submission along with the court’s directive.
 
 TMBU registrar Ashok Kumar Jha confirmed that Tomar along with his lawyer had met him at his office on May 16 and placed his submission in the backdrop of the Patna high court’s directive to the university. “We will file our submission and counter affidavit before the court in connection with the case filed by Tomar challenging cancellation of his LLB degree. We have directed our legal section to prepare a report,” added the TMBU Registrar. 
 
 Tomar’s degree was cancelled by the TMBU senate on March 20, 2017, after the Chancellor of the universities gave its approval. Earlier, on December 3, 2016, the TMBU syndicate had ratified the decision of the examination board and the disciplinary committee of TMBU to cancel Tomar’s LLB degree besides seeking Chancellor’s approval after internal investigations. Subsequently, the then registrar of TMBU got a case registered against Tomar on charges of forgery under various sections of the IPC for procuring the LLB degree from TMBU.
 
 Tomar had claimed to be a student of Vishwanath Singh Institute of Legal Studies (VNSILS) at  , in the LLB stream between 1994-1998 under TMBU and had secured the degree in September 2012. In February 2015, a petition was filed in the Delhi high court challenging Tomar’s university degrees on the basis of an   inquiry. Avadh University (Faizabad), from where Tomar claimed to have graduated, denied awarding the bachelor’s degree to him.
 
 
