NAGPUR: Unauthorized constructions have continued in the city unabatedly. Latest case is that of Centre Point School ( ) that has started construction of a school building at its Mother’s Pet Kindergarten, Seminary Hills, that too in playground area even before obtaining necessary permissions. The collector’s office,   (NMC), fire department and also   have turned a blind eye towards the violations.

 Interestingly, the construction is going on for the last 2-3 months and the Heritage Conservation Committee granted NOC for it in a meeting held on March 23. The school is situated on Seminary Hills that falls under a grade-I (hillock category) heritage site. NOC from the committee was must before the commencement of the construction. However, the committee did not take any action despite being aware of the construction.
 
 Committee’s member-secretary  , also assistant director of town planning at the NMC, visited the site a few days before the committee meeting. Gawande confirmed to TOI about the ongoing construction at the site. He also confirmed that building plan sanction was yet to be given by the NMC’s town planning department.
 
 Another major violation is that the area where construction is going on was allotted by the state government through collector’s office for playground purpose. As per documents available with TOI, divisional commissioner Anup Kumar has sent a letter to revenue and forest departments in January seeking conversion of playground to school and the process is still on.
 
 CPS is constructing a G+4 floor structure, which surely will be over 15 metres in height. An official from the town planning department said width of road and passage to the building also needed to be checked. There is a narrow under 5 metre wide road leading to the school is situated. As per norms, even for buildings up to 15 metres in height, a 6 metre wide road is required. For construction above 15 metres, 9 metre wide road is mandatory.
 
 Arun Upadhyaya of CPS said it was a technical lapse and process to convert playground to school and other permissions were underway. “We had a building where the present construction is going on. We had constructed the earlier building with all permissions. We have demolished it and going for a new one. We were not aware of playground user, lease etc as they are very technical issues. We kicked-off the process after being told by the authorities. We have applied for building plan sanction with the NMC and the application is pending for over 60 days. Fire NOC is required after completion of the building so it will be taken later. We ensure fire safety measures in all our schools. We also conduct fire mock drills and rescue operations. We believe in giving best education and safe premises for all. New building is coming up utilizing Japanese technology,” he said.
 
 
