NEW DELHI: In what could be welcome news amid reports of farm distress in several states, there are indications that India could see a normal   even as national weather forecaster   is still over a fortnight away from an official pronouncement on the likely rainfall pattern this year.

 
 The IMD’s recent bulletin on   Southern Oscillation (ENSO) has ruled out possibility of El Nino, at least till August, and has given reasons for the agency to be hopeful. The El Nino — an abnormal warming of the ocean surface in central and eastern equatorial Pacific — is usually associated with weak monsoons.
 
 Officials in the agency said observations have so far not thrown up any negative factor. IMD director general K J Ramesh, however, was cautious when asked about the indications of the bulletin. “It would be premature to say anything at this juncture. We would be able to say something after two weeks and will come out with our first forecasts by mid-April,” he said.
 
 The IMD’s seasonal outlook for the temperature during March-May period has also noted a moderate   — episodes representing periods of below-average sea surface temperatures across the east-central equatorial Pacific. La Nina effect is opposite to El Nino and is related to normal or above normal rainfall.
 
 The early March comment of the US national oceanic and atmospheric administration (NOAA) supplements the initial optimism on the Indian monsoon. “The deep pool of cool water feeding La Niña has largely disappeared,” it says explaining the factors behind NOAA’s forecast that the tropical Pacific will return to neutral by the March-May season.
 
 The US agency said conditions in the Pacific Ocean were slowly returning to normal as La Nina fades. “The warming was related to an eastward-moving warmer-than-average blob primarily located between 250 and 50 metres below the surface of the western Pacific Ocean…As this wave sloshes east under the surface, it will continue to erode the supply of cooler-than-average waters available for La Nina, providing more confidence in the forecast for neutral conditions to develop this spring," NOAA notes. 
 
 Consequently, NOAA report states that La Nina is loosening its grip on the tropics. “Sea surface temperatures in the central and eastern tropical Pacific remain cooler than average, but the typical La Niña wind and rainfall anomalies have faded. Conditions are likely (55% chance) to return to neutral by the March-May season.” 
 
 
