Nagpur: Sunil Kulmethe, divisional committee member and commander of Sironcha Dalam of banned Communist Party of India (Maoist), was gunned down along with wife Swaroopa and another unidentified woman cadre at the forested hillock around 5 kms from Srikonda in south Gadchiroli. The operation against the guerrillas was conducted by a C-60 commando squad from Pranhita headquarters of Aheri division.  Along with bodies of three rebels, two rifles (8mm and 12 bore) some rucksacks and literature of the rebels were recovered during search conducted at the spot. Senior officials said Sunil, being a senior ranking cadre, was likely carrying higher grade weapon like that of AK series along with the ammunitions that his fellow dalam members may have taken away while fleeing. The gun-battle lasted around half-an-hour. Sunil and Swaroopa had survived the Kalled encounter in December last year in which seven of Sironcha dalam members were killed. The couple was in the process of reviving the almost wiped out Sironcha dalam in south Gadchiroli that serves as a crucial link between the rebels of Maharashtra with that of neighbouring Telangana and also Chhattisgarh. Sunil and Swaroopa were learnt to be present along with around dozen cadres in Rompalli-Srikonda hillocks for the last few days.  Sources from Gadchiroli has claimed Sunil was likely waiting for some message or another formation of rebels to meet them. It is learnt the rebels in this season of tendu leaves collection were likely to form a strategy to extort money from contractors.  The resting Maoist formation was taken by surprise by the C-60 jawans who had started in the early hours from Pranhita headquarters after receiving input about Sunil’s location. SP (In-charge), Gadchiroli, A Raja said the Maoists were probably resting when our squad zeroed in on them. “The place had been so far a safe haven for the Maoists with security forces not venturing into densely forested hillocks that can be trickier than plains during gun-battles,” he said. Raja also said there were blood stains spotted which suggested more cadres could be injured. “We are in the process of identifying third body of a woman that could hint about some other formations present at the site,” said Raja. Sunil, a native of Aheri tehsil, had joined the movement in the early 2000. He was elevated to the ranks of commander and then DVC a couple of years ago. Amid a manpower and resource crisis, Sunil was trying to retain the depleting influence of the rebels in the once sensitive Sironcha. His death now signals almost an end of the road for the rebels here.  Addl SP, Gadchiroli, Maheshwar Reddy said the latest success of C-60 jawans can be attributed to the in-house training academy of district police inaugurated last year by Addl CS (home) SK Shrivastava and DGP Satish Mathur. “Despite being in a vantage position on the hillock, this was probably first time C-60 jawans managed to overpower the Maoists in a gun-battle. Much of this success can be attributed to ongoing training in guerrilla warfare,” he said. Action team member nabbed  Harish Potavi, member of Action Team, was arrested at Murumgaon in Dhanora tehsil in north Gadchiroli. It is learnt Potavi, a resident of Markegaon village, was nabbed from weekly market where he had likely come to target someone.  While Potavi was held, two of his accomplices managed to flee.