MUMBAI: An Ola cab driver has been arrested on charges of molesting a 24-year-old woman employed with a foreign bank during a trip from   to   on Monday evening.

 
 Sureshkumar  , 36, allegedly committed the offence after the Bandra (West) resident complained of giddiness and fell asleep in the front seat as the cab took the   to reach Powai.
 
 She woke up on feeling the driver was touching her inappropriately. He pulled her cheeks and asked her to go back to sleep and continued to molest her.
 
 The woman was on her way to meet a friend at   after leaving her workplace around 5.15pm. The trip ended at 6.45pm.
 
 She filed an FIR around 9pm, after which Powai police arrested Yadav. “When Yadav noticed that the woman was not feeling well, he asked her to shift to the front seat as it can be pushed back and stretched, which would allow her to catch some sleep. On the pretext of adjusting the seat, though, he touched her inappropriately twice with his elbow. The woman ignored it thinking it was accidental,” said a police officer.
 
 In her complaint, the woman, who lives as a paying guest in Bandra (West), said, “I booked the Ola cab from my mobile phone and got the confirmation with Yadav’s contact number and sat in the cab at 5.15pm. As I was not keeping well, the driver asked me to shift to the front seat which can be stretched and told me to sleep. I told him that I was not feeling sleepy but he kept talking and even asked me my name and age. He told me that I looked a lot younger than my stated age. When the cab got on the Freeway, I fell asleep. I woke up on realizing that he was groping me. By then the cab had reached Powai and I screamed and yelled at the driver,” the woman mentioned in the FIR. She immediately WhatsApped her friend about the offence and sent her location status. He, in turn, rushed to the spot. On spotting him, the woman told the driver to stop the cab and jumped out and began to run. “The woman and her friend came to the police station to lodge a complaint. We got in touch with the cab aggregator and got details of Yadav who is a Kharghar resident and got him arrested,” said a police officer.
 
 Powai police senior inspector   confirmed the incident.
 
 The Indian Penal Code sections applied in case include 354 for outraging the modesty of a woman which invites two years’ imprisonment or fine or both, and 354A for any physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures which attracts up to one year imprisonment or fine or both.
 
 Cops are collecting Yadav’s antecedents and investigating whether he had committed a similar offence in the past.
 
