In the latest episode of  , Arohi tells Deep that they still love each other and says that Deep could never kill her. Deep says that his sole mission in life was to kill Arohi and says that they can never be together. As he grasps her hand, Arohi pushes him inside a room and locks him.

 
 Virat looks for Tara and asks her where was she. Tara tells her that she had gone outside to destress for a little while and says that she will be resting in her room. As he leaves, Tara (Arohi) recollects what Deep said to her and thinks of a way to rescue Ritu.
 
 Deep manages to get out and reaches home. Roma confronts him and asks him how did Arohi manage to escape yet again. Deep apologises to her.
 
 Deep tries to call Arohi but she doesn't pick up. They both look at CCTV footage separately and look for evidence against each other. Chawanni tells Arohi that he was able to destroy all the CCTV footage but they find a recording in one of the cameras. Arohi says that she has to stop Deep from seeing that recording.
 
 Virat tells Tara (Arohi) that he found some evidence in Vedika's apartment. As he is about to show her the proof, the photo goes missing from his pocket. He says that somebody stole the photo. Tara brings up Roma's name and says that she does not want them to know the truth.
 
 As Deep goes to find the evidence against Arohi in the CCTV, Chawanni stops him and pretends to fall in front of him. Deep picks him up.
 
 Virat confronts Roma and says that she did not want the truth about Vedika's father come out because she still loved him. Roma tells him to mind his words. Deep sees them fighting and asks Virat to treat Roma with respect. They both slap each other. Roma holds a gun and threatens to shoot if they don't stop fighting. In between all of that, Chawanni manages to delete the CCTV footage.
 
 Arohi tells Chawanni that Roma is paying for her sins one by one. She gets a call from Ritu asking to save her. Arohi gets scared and says she has to go. Chawanni stops her and says they have to deal with the CCTV footage. She decides to make Deep delete the video by himself.
 
 Arohi sends Deep a video which shows Deep and Virat fighting and says that she will leak the video out in the open and harm their reputation. Deep gets angry and goes and breaks the CCTV camera in a fit of rage.
 
 
