PUNE: Three men — the driver of a private   service and two of his accomplices — have been booked by the Bhosari police for allegedly barging onto a bus operated by the   (MSRTC) and physically attacking its driver, Giridhar Jadhav, in a case of road rage on Friday evening. 

 The incident had also delayed the passengers on the   bus by nearly an hour as the ambulance driver, after attacking 35-year-old Jadhav, had fled with the keys of the bus. The passengers had to be accommodated on another bus.
 
 
  
 
 The incident took place at the   traffic signal on Friday evening and Jadhav had lodged a complaint with the Bhosari police station the same night.
 
 Bhosari police said Shivneri bus was on its way to Mumbai from Pune. When the bus was plying on the   road, the ambulance was travelling right behind it. The ambulance driver was constantly honking, looking for a way to overtake the MSRTC bus. Police said though the bus driver heard the ambulance’s honks and wanted to make space for it to pass by, there just was no space available. Incidentally, the ambulance was not carrying any patient.
 
 At the CME chowk, the ambulance driver managed to overtake the bus and stopped in front of it, forcing the bus to stop as well. The ambulance driver then jumped out of his vehicle and rushed towards the bus. He opened the door and entered the bus driver’s cabin. He then slapped Jadhav and stole the keys of the bus.
 
 After this, the ambulance sped away from the spot leaving the bus and its passengers stranded.
 
 Jadhav then called up MSRTC’s office in Pune. Meanwhile, the bus passengers were accommodated in another Shivneri bus.
 
 Police said despite not carrying any patient in his vehicle, the ambulance driver was in a great rush. Police have recovered the CCTV footage of the incident, which helped them track down the ambulance’s registration number.
 
 On Sunday, Bhosari police told TOI that they are still trying to locate the ambulance. Police said the ambulance belongs to a private hospital and it will soon be tracked down.
 
 
