MUMBAI: Aaditya Thackeray’s elevation as Shiv Sena’s ‘neta’ on Tuesday marks a generational shift in the party’s dynastic set-up, said observers. At 28, Aaditya has joined the big-ticket league of party bigwigs such as Manohar Joshi, Sudhir Joshi, Liladhar Dake and Subhash Desai, among others. 

 “Aadityaji’s elevation is a rite of passage,” said Sudhir Dongaonkar a   sympathiser from Worli. At 28, Uddhav was Bal Thackeray’s low-profile aide, he recalled.
 
 As Sena leader,   will be privy to confidential parleys on key policy issues, sources said. “He will now have a forum to express his views and participate in debates. This will help him gain experience as the party’s key organiser,” they added.
 
 A law graduate and a St Xavier’s College alumni, Aaditya had his first brush with controversy when Sainiks held loud protest against Rohinton Mistry’s ‘Such A Long Journey’ in October 2010, which the Mumbai University withdrew following the saffron fracas.
 
 Liberals accused the Sena of deliberately fanning the Mistry row to further Aaditya’s fledgling political career. The young Thackeray promptly denied the charge.
 
 Later, Aaditya was appointed head of Yuva Sena. Apart from assisting his father in organizational matters, Aaditya has been diligently pursuing his agenda for Mumbai: open gyms, providing free tabs for children in municipal schools, hosting Humboldt penguins in the Byculla zoo and giving a leg-up to sports. He is currently the president of the Mumbai suburban district football association. Aaditya won both bouquets and brickbats last year when he floated his 24x7 plan for roof-top restaurants. Old-timers in the Sena are of the view that helming a party such as the Sena, which has for decades been steeped in rough-and-ready  , may be a tough task for the soft-spoken Thackeray scion in the years to come. 
 
 Apart from Aaditya, there are a few other senior partymen who have been elevated as ‘netas’ such as Union minister Anant Geete, Thane unit chief Eknath Shinde, Sena MPs Chandrakant Khaire and Anandrao Adsul. Shinde has a stronghold in Thane district and played a key role in the civic  , where Sena got a majority last year. As the Sena has decided to raise its national profile, it has appointed five non-Marathi convenors Hemraj Shah, Akhilesh Tiwari, Vinay Shulka, Gulabchand Dubey and Anna Malai.
 
 
