PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation ( ) has collected property tax worth Rs 293.19 crore within the first 40 days of the current fiscal, April 1 to May 11, from over 3 lakh property owners. However, civic authorities have stated that there is still a long way to go as over 5.50 lakh property owners in the city are yet to pay property tax for the current year.

 There are about 8.50 lakh registered property tax payers within PMC limits. Of the total, 3 lakh owners have paid the tax so far. Among these, 1.51 lakh tax payers have opted to pay the tax via the online portal while the remaining 1.49 lakh have paid tax at PMC’s collection centres. The civic body now faces a challenge to collect tax from the remaining 5.50 lakh property owners.
 
 Officials in the property tax department said that they have expedited efforts. The officials have appealed to property owners to make the tax payment before May 31 in order to avail up to 10% discount.
 
 A senior official explained, “There are still 10 days to go before the May 31 deadline. The tax payer will be able to avail a discount of up to 10% on general tax, if the full tax amount is paid before the end of the month. PMC’s tax collection centres located across the city will remain open even on weekends and holidays until May 31 to accept tax payments.”
 
 Further, the official added, last year till May 11 the department was able to collect Rs266.86 crore as property tax. This year, the collection has increased to Rs293.19 crore. “We hope for a similar rise in tax revenue for the remaining months of the current fiscal,” he said.
 
 Sources in the department said that another trend recorded recently is an increase in the number of online transactions for tax payment. Officials pointed out that the civic administration has been putting in additional effort to ensure people pay their tax dues through the online portal. The statistics till May 11 has revealed more online transactions — 1.51 lakh — than offline, 1.49 lakh.
 
 
