MUMBAI: A 29-year-old Khar resident was sentenced to six months in jail for barging into a Bandra doctor’s flat in an inebriated state and molesting her in 2011. The  , while upholding a lower court order, refused to believe the defence of the accused that he had rescued the woman on hearing her screams for help and it was a case of mistaken identity.

 The court found the accused, Sandeep Patil, guilty on charges of outraging the modesty of a woman and house trespass after preparation to cause hurt, assault or wrongful restraint. “There is no reason for false implication. Incident was reported immediately and accused arrested at the same time. I find no reason to disbelieve the complainant’s version,” the sessions court said.
 
 The court, however, refused to order Patil to serve both six-month sentences granted for each of the two sections separately. “The offences are not that serious as not to make the sentences concurrent. I hold that the conviction and sentence needs confirmation, but the sentences need to be made concurrent,” the court said.
 
 The incident took place on the night of May 6, 2011. On hearing the doorbell ringing incessantly, the doctor opened the door assuming it was an emergency medical case. On seeing a drunk Patil outside the door, she apprehended danger and tried to shut the door, but he pushed it open and barged into the flat, the prosecution said. The woman ran out of the flat, but he caught her hand. After a struggle, she managed to rescue herself and ran to the first floor. Patil chased her and grabbed her again. When she fell, he hit her on her thigh and chest and molested her, the prosecution said. On hearing her screams for help, neighbours rushed out and caught Patil. They then handed him over to the police.
 
 In 2017, a Bandra magistrate’s court convicted Patil. He then moved an appeal before the sessions court challenging the order. He claimed that the “judgment was bad in law and illegal, and the sentence harsh, unwanted and unjustified”. Patil claimed that the magistrate failed to consider that on hearing her shout for help, he entered the building to save her.
 
 
