GURUGRAM: Three prisoners and three jail warders were injured in Gurugram district jail, Bhondsi, on Wednesday morning in a clash between two groups of inmates, purportedly members of rival gangs facing trials or serving terms in various cases.

 The crime unit has been asked to probe the matter to find out the exact reason behind the fight that broke out in front of the jail canteen around 8.45am and lasted about 15 minutes.
 
 
  
 
 Police said inmates of the barrack No. 1 and 8 were buying stuff when two groups got into a brawl, which eventually spilled outside the canteen with the involvement of other prisoners.
 
 The two sides, mainly comprising members of rival Binder Gujjar and Rajesh Bawana gangs, used tree branches and other objects to attack each other. Police sources said some men of Manjeet Mahal gang were also involved in the fight, which left at least three prisoners injured.
 
 Three jail warders, who were keeping vigil near the canteen, were also attacked when they tried to intervene.
 
 Around 15 minutes later, senior jail officials, along with other staff, arrived at the spot and locked up the members of warring groups in separate barracks.
 
 Three inmates — Rajesh Kumar, Rohit and Rajesh — and three warders — Jai Bhagwan, Surender and Somnath — were taken to the hospital on the prison campus, where all the six are being treated now.
 
 Later in the day, a team of the crime unit, along with jail officials, carried out a search operation in the two barracks and recovered 22 mobile phones. On the basis of a complaint filed by deputy superintendent of police (prisons) Sajid Khan, an FIR has been filed against 38 inmates under sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (causing hurt), 332 (causing hurt to deter public servant), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant) of the IPC at Bhondsi police station.
 
 “The brawl had broken put between the henchmen of jailed gangsters Binder Gujjar and Rajesh Bawana at the canteen inside the jail. Our team reached the spot and controlled the situation. We will take the accused on production warrant soon for questioning,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurugram.
 
 On his part, Jai Kishan Chiller, superintendent of  , said they acted promptly after getting the information. “These criminals belong to rival gangs and keep looking for opportunities to get into a fight. I held a meeting (with the jail officials) today (on Wednesday) just after the fight and have asked all officials to be more vigilant to avert recurrence of such incident,” he maintained.
 
 Several brawls and feuds were reported in Bhondsi jail in the past too. Last month, an inmate was injured badly during a fight with two other prisoners following an argument. He had eight stitches near his eye after the duo attacked with him a sharp object. In June 2016, an inmate was injured in a clash between two rival groups. 
 
 
