BATHINDA: The district administration here has honoured women, who took up tough jobs where men are normally preferred, on the occasion of the International Women’s Day. Those honoured include auto-rickshaw driver, newspaper vehicle driver, petrol pump attendant, hotel and canteen workers.

 The district administration in association with the department of women and child development and Malwa Heritage Foundation honoured these women from different walks of life at SSD Girls College here on Thursday. Those honoured are drivers Pushpa Rani and Shinder Kaur, petrol pump attendants Anju Arora, Amandeep Kaur and Veerpal Kaur, hotel workers   and Nisha, tea canteen owners Anjali and   and self-employed Surinder Kaur. Green grocers Shama, Barkha and Madhu Chaurasia, painter Swati Devi, shopkeeper Kamla Devi, Ankila and Ram Dulari, fruit sellers Sangita, Hiramani Devi and Geeta Devi, Bindu, labourer Kiranjit Kaur, midwives   and Malkit Kaur were also felicitated.
 
 Happy over getting recognition, newspaper vehicle driver Pushpa Rani has been on the job for the last four years. She starts late in the evening from   for Ludhiana to get Hindi newspapers and starts the return journey around 1.30am. “I never feel afraid while driving so late in the night and have been doing this job for the last four years. For the last few days I am not going out because my vehicle has broken down,” said Pushpa.
 
 Petrol pump worker Amandeep (32) is toiling hard after her husband deserted her eight years ago. She is taking care of her two children aged 12 and 10 years with Rs 4,500 per month that she earns from the petrol pump at Bhucho town, nearly 15km from Bathinda. Autorickshaw driver Shinder Kaur (40) said she felt really satisfied over being chosen for honours by the district administration. “I never feel ashamed in driving an auto, which normally is driven by men,” she maintained.
 
 Bathinda DC Diprava Lakra, additional DC Shena Aggarwal and SDM Sakshi Sawhney honoured 22 women from economically weaker section (EWS) of society. The scheme, Pankh Maar Udari, of the department of women and child development was also started at the event. Lakra said that they decided to honour those women who proved their mettle. “These women overcame all kinds of problems and are true examples of women empowerment. A healthy society cannot be imagined without the immense contribution of women.”
 
 
