Water resources and medical education minister  , 57, is CM  's new point man. Mahajan, a six-term legislator from Jamner in Jalgaon district, has successfully dealt with agitations against the Fadnavis government and helped persuade the protestors to call off their stir without being seen as giving into all the demands. Recently, when tribal farmers marched from Nashik to Mumbai, Mahajan along some senior IPS officers stepped in to pacify them. 

 Mahajan joined the marchers before they entered Mumbai and got them to change their route to ensure that the march had no adverse impact on the exams. Following their meeting with the CM, the tribals called off their strike on the assurance that their demands would be implemented. However, what was not mentioned was that many of the demands had been accepted earlier in August 2016. The tribals' stir was followed by anti-corruption crusader Anna Hazare's indefinite hunger strike in Delhi. Even before Hazare reached Delhi, Mahajan had held meetings with him at his home in Ralegan Siddhi in   district. When talks failed, Hazare left for Delhi to begin his hunger strike from March 23. Mahajan was there again to mediate between Hazare and the PMO. Mahajan's brief was to ensure that Hazare called off his strike as early as possible, even if demands were not met immediately. Mahajan succeeded, Hazare called off the strike after he was given an assurance by the NDA government. In April 2011, Hazare had launched a hunger strike seeking the appointment of Lokpal and  , to create a mechanism for unearthing black money and to tackle corruption. The negotiating team was led by senior Congress leader Vilasrao Deshmukh. Thiswas more or less a similar situation, with the only difference being Deshmukh had direct access to then PM Manmohan Singh, while Mahajan was interacting with some PMO bureaucrats. Mahajan has also helped the CM in tackling his rival and former minister Eknath Khadse
 
 
 
 The home department led by Fadnavis has made a provision of Rs 5 lakh for intelligence gathering, particularly in jails. In an order issued a week ago, the home department admitted that terrorists, Naxalites and hardened gangsters are lodged in jails across the state and they hatch conspiracies to escape and attack jail staffers. To ensure security of jails, a provision of Rs 5 lakh was made for intelligence-gathering in jails. 
 
 There appears to be lack of seriousness when it comes to intelligence gathering. In the recent past, Maharashtra has witnessed many incidents: inmates have been attacked, gangsters have escaped from the Nagpur Central Jail, cellphones found in Nagpur prison, which is in the CM's hometown. Six months ago, a murder convict, who was undergoing life imprisonment at the   escaped; he was caught recently. Mumbai police chief Datta Padsalgikar had to depute a high-level team of officials to nab him. 
 
 A former DG said the home department will have to change its priorities. "Instead of buying swanky cars for movement of ministers and VIPs and incurring huge expenditure on repairs of bungalows of cabinet members, provision for intelligence gathering must be enhanced, otherwise it will be difficult to halt the illegal activities of criminals in jails," said the former cop. 
 
 
