PUNE: “I just want to reach home safely,” US citizen   said on Monday, sitting inside her mother’s flat on Salunke Vihar Road. Her home is in Michigan, the United States and her flight on January 5 was cancelled because of the fierce winter storm that has shut down many airports on the east coast. 

 Like her, there are many from the US who decided to visit their parents and relatives in India during their two–week break starting on December 22. Some of them in Pune found that they could not fly back on their scheduled flights in the first week of January.
 
 Pam left Pune on January 4 to catch her flight from Mumbai. “At the airline desk, I was told the flight had been cancelled and I was rebooked for January 11. That makes me a whole week late for work. Besides, my daughter’s school started on Monday,” she said.
 
 While her husband will handle the home front, she has had to write emails to her boss explaining the delay. “I am anxious about my daughter and my husband and my office,” she said. She will now go to Frankfurt and then to Michigan. ”It also means a five-hour wait at Frankfurt,” she said 
 
 The winter storm that has gripped   and the US has led to delays and cancellations of more than 18,000 flights within, out of and into the US till Monday, according to FlightView.com, a website that gives out information about flights.
 
  and Krishnan Natesan arrived in mid-December from Albany near New York where they live with their son and his family to visit their daughter in Pune. ”Our grandchildren start school on Monday and we planned to go back in time. Our flight was cancelled and it has been rescheduled for January 15,” they said.
 
 Deiter Weilson, who went to New York for work in early December and planned to return on January 10, was hoping his flight would be on schedule. “The delays are for all long distance outbound and inbound flights. Most have been rescheduled. I will be delayed by a week,” he said via a WhatApp message.
 
 Weilson said the person he was to meet would arrive from India on January 12 instead of Monday because of the delays.
 
 This time is one of the busiest for air travel with families getting back from holidays. “I teach at a private German school which is open right through this storm. I am in charge of small children who will be upset at not seeing a familiar face in class,” said Boston resident Priya Pendse. She will be able to fly back only on Friday.
 
 They all hoped the weather does not worsen any further. 
 
 
