COIMBATORE: With less than a month time to register for the National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET) 2018 - the last date for application being March 9 - coaching centres in the city have revved up their processes of enrolling students for crash courses.

 Most of the centres have planned to conduct crash courses from the beginning of April to right before the exam on May 6. Representatives of several coaching centres said the crash course has been much sought after as it fit in the one-month interval between board exams and the NEET exam.
 
 While coaching centres also offer one year courses, the reason for students opting for the crash course is that the focus is more in this course, says Meenu  , center head of   on  . “In the year-long course, classes would be held on Sundays and there would be no continuity. But in the crash course, students could get an in-depth learning,” she said.
 
 Registrations for the crash courses has gone up by 35% to 40%, said  , deputy general manager (sales and marketing) of  . “We expect the numbers to increase after the board exams get over,” he said. M  , marketing manager of MasterJEE training institute, also concurred with the view. “Students would get an idea of what course to pursue only when they start writing their board exams,” he said.
 
 Ramalingam said as it has been made clear that the NEET exam is mandatory for medical studies, the demand for coaching classes has grown among biology students. 
 
 However, many parents were still confused about the exam, said representatives of coaching centres. Sultana said many parents were yet know how to go about training their kids for the exam. “We still get calls inquiring about the exam and the coaching methods,” she said.
 
 The coaching centres said the crash course programme has drawn students not only from the city, but also from Tirupur, Salem and Namakkal. Several centres also have arranged boarding for outstation students who come for the crash courses.
 
 In addition to this, coaching centres also offer year-long or five-month-long courses for students who failed to clear the exam last year and want to write it again this year. 
 
 
