CHENNAI: The   government considers the services of state   (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo ‘indispensable’ in the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board, where he served a five-month stint earlier.

 Sahoo was taken on deputation by the   by issuing an order in February. But Sahoo joined as CEO three weeks later. Seeking to keep his services for three more months in the  , the government wrote to the EC to allow him to hold additional charge of MD in the board. The EC has now consented to Tamil Nadu’s plea. “We have received a communication from the EC stating that the state can have Sahoo’s services for three months as MD, Metrowater,” said a senior official. The state government is yet to issue orders giving additional charge of the board to Sahoo.
 
 When the EC’s consent got delayed, the government had given additional charge of   post to commissioner of municipal administration, G Prakash.
 
 It remains unclear as to why the services of Sahoo was asked for by the government, when there are many experienced senior IAS officials in TN cadre who are languishing in insignificant posts. When TOI contacted Sahoo, he confirmed getting the commission’s order. “It follows state’s request. The state will have to pass an order now,” said Sahoo. Apparently, Sahoo too seems to be keen on taking up the additional task. Sources said he has been seeking an appointment with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in recent days to secure the order at the earliest.
 
 Election commission sources in Delhi said that similar orders were given to a few other state governments also in the past due to shortage of IAS officials in the respective cadres. Moreover, it was done during non-election season. “It is based on a request from TN government that we have allowed Sahoo to take up an additional responsibility,” said a senior EC official.
 
 Interestingly, the board is headed by municipal administration minister S P Velumani. Many in the bureaucracy are questioning the propriety in making the CEO report to a state minister. 
 
 “It amounts to compromising on the EC’s independence and integrity. Even if the state had sought CEO’s services, the EC should have refused to give. It involves the credibility of the institution. It should not be compromised at any cost,” said a senior bureaucrat.
 
 Sahoo was posted in Metrowater only in September last year, after his predecessor, Arun Roy, was transferred amidst reports that he refused to yield to pressures to tweak tenders for Chennai’s third desalination plant. 
 
 The board is dealing with many high-value water supply and underground sewerage projects in the extended areas.
 
 
