PANAJI: Goa CM   is “giving final touches to his budget”, which is scheduled for Thursday, from Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai, assembly speaker   told TOI on Monday.

 Parrikar, who is undergoing treatment for pancreatitis at the hospital, has almost finished preparing his budget speech and only the opening remarks are left, sources said. They said he is in constant touch with state government officials for finalising the budget.
 
 The former defence minister has authorised public works department minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar, who was appointed leader of the House in Parrikar’s absence, to table the budget — a first in Goa’s legislative assembly history.
 
 Dhavalikar said he has also been authorised to clear all files pertaining to the business of the House.
 
 But Dhavalikar, who represents the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) in the BJP-led coalition, said Parrikar will present the budget himself if he returns to Goa on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 
 After the budget is tabled, the government is likely to take a vote on account for five months, said Sawant. The discussion on the budget will take place in the next assembly session, likely in June or July.
 
 The business advisory committee of the assembly that met after the governor’s address also decided to curtail the month-long budget session to four days due to Parrikar’s illness.
 
 Sawant said that the House’s usual business — question hour, calling attention, zero hour mention, etc — would take place on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. On Tuesday and Wednesday, there would be a discussion on the governor’s address, to which Dhavalikar would respond.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP held its legislative party meeting just before the assembly session began on Monday and selected urban development minister Francis D’Souza as its leader. It was attended by all three MPs from the state — Vinay Tendulkar (  MP and party’s Goa unit president),   and Narendra Sawaikar (both Lok Sabha MPs).
 
 Health minister   briefed MLAs on Parrikar’s health. Parrikar was referred to Mumbai’s Lilavati Hospital by the Goa Medical College on Thursday.
 
