Caste mathematics, farmer votes, corruption, Kannadiga pride - these were among the several issues raised by the the three main political parties in the 2018 Karnataka assembly elections. Here’s a quick round-up of strategies that worked for the parties and the ones that failed to find favour.

 
 
 CM PICK: Projecting  , a Lingayat, as CM candidate a year ahead helped Lingayat
 consolidation — and made Congress’s last-minute promise of minority religion status seem like a poll gambit.
 
 GOING TO THE GROUND: Amit Shah’s micro-management included appointment of page pramukhs (in charge of each page of the electoral roll), preparing a database of those with smartphones in each booth, and hoisting BJP flags atop houses of booth-level committee presidents.
 
  EVERYWHERE: PM Modi did 21 rallies, criss-crossing the state, infusing energy into cadre and winning over voters in a last-minute push.
 
 TAKING IT SLOW: BJP took its time to allot tickets, commissioned multiple surveys; chose to avoid ‘dynasty’ taint by denying ticket to Yeddyurappa’s son Vijayendra.
 
 FARMERS’ VOTES: Vokkaligas, a powerful agrarian community, saw BJP as a Lingayat party and stuck with Deve Gowda and family.
 
 REDDY NOT STEADY: Giving the Reddy brothers’ associates tickets meant attacks on   on corruption didn’t stick; BJP was seen as willing to do anything to get numbers.
 
 
 
 EARLY START: JD(S) was the first to announce its first list of 126 candidates, and ensure that funds were routed to them.
 
 BIG PROMISES: Kumaraswamy’s promise to waive all farm loans within 24 hours of coming to power and give monthly pension of Rs 6,000 to senior citizens won hearts and votes.
 
 HOLDING GROUND: JD(S) Retained old Mysuru region; got votes of Vokkaligas who were angry with Siddaramaiah’s potshots at Deve Gowda and calling JD(S) BJP’s B team.
 
 
 
 BIGGER SHARE: Despite anti-incumbency, it managed to increase its vote share by 2 per cent.
 
 CITY WIN: Bengaluru’s awful urban infrastructure, traffic and frothing lakes are a sore point, but Congress managed to retain its 13 seats in the city.
 
 POOR GAMBLE: Siddaramaiah’s Lingayat card didn’t work as the powerful big mutts didn’t clearly spell out whether they were for or against
 minority status.
 
 CASTE MATH: Congress's focus on Ahinda — a Kannada acronym for alpasankhyataru (minorities), hindulidavaru mattu (backward classes) and dalitaru (Dalits) — left Gowdas feeling marginalised, pushed them to BJP. Kurubas (Siddaramaiah’s caste) stuck with Congress but wasn’t enough.
 
 CORRUPTION CHARGES: Allegations against Siddaramaiah’s senior colleagues, especially in Bengaluru, hurt; BJP slogan of ‘10% commission CM’ resonated with voters.
 
 LANGUAGE WARS: Kannada pride did not get votes; voters prioritised water, roads etc over emotive appeals.
 
 
 
