NEW DELHI: In a strongly worded letter to CJI Dipak Misra and all SC judges, Justice   sought a full court meeting to discuss the Centre sitting on collegium recommendations and warned that “history will not pardon us” if the court failed to act. Justice   referred to the Centre’s three-month-long inaction on the recommendation to appoint   CJ K M Joseph and senior advocate Indu Malhotra as judges of the SC. 

 
 The Centre has objections to Justice K M Joseph’s elevation, with officials arguing that he did not meet the seniority criteria set by the apex court in terms of overall seniority of HC judges and the appointment has become the subject of a tug of war between the government and the judiciary. In 2016, he had struck down the BJP-backed coup against the previous   government in Uttarakhand.
 
 “Government owes a duty to take a call on the recommendation as soon as the same is sent from the collegium. Failure to discharge their duty by sitting over the recommendations of the collegium doing nothing, in administrative law, is abuse of power. More than anything else, it sends a wrong message which is loud and clear to all judges down the line not to cause any displeasure to the executive lest they should suffer. Is this not a threat to the independence of the judiciary?” Justice Joseph said in a two-page letter to the CJI and the 22 judges on April 9, exactly three months after the collegium had decided on the two names.
 
 Stating that the matter presented “a threat to the very life and existence of the institution”, Justice Joseph recalled that when Calcutta HC’s Justice C S Karnan started misbehaving with the SC and other HC judges, then CJI J S Justice Josephar had called a full court meeting and it was decided that the errant judge would be tackled on the judicial side.
 
 Justice Joseph suggested that a similar full court meeting be called to decide on setting up of a bench of the first seven judges to deal on the judicial side with the Centre sitting on the recommendation to appoint the Uttarakhand CJ and Malhotra as SC judges.
 
 He said the Centre’s block on the January 10 recommendations had caused difficulties in sending more names for the SC and HCs.
 
 “We are not able to sit for the second phase since fate of the first phase is not yet known. The dignity, honour and respect of this institution is going down day by day since we are not able to take the recommendations for appointment to this court to their logical conclusion. I am more worried about the irreparable injury that is being caused by the wrong message sent to the judges down the line,” Justice Joseph said.
 
 “If there is no normal delivery on completion of the gestation period, what is urgently done is a Caesarean section. Unless such a surgical intervention is made at an appropriate time, the child in the womb dies. Therefore, I request you, in the interest of this great institution and independence of the judiciary for which all of us have fought so vigorously and tirelessly, to have an appropriate bench in the lines of the precedent set by Justice Karnan’s case constituted forthwith before the child dies, otherwise I feel, history will not pardon us,” he added.
 
 
