NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday filed a plea with the National Green Tribunal against the two   at   and  . 

 Through their plea,   spokesperson Dilip Kumar Pandey and others sought directions from   to restrain the Delhi Development Authority from allotting land at the two locations. Rebel AAP MLA Kapil Mishra, too, filed a similar plea separately. Delhi BJP has already opposed the move. 
 
 “Setting up landfills at these locations will adversely affect the health of people living nearby due to emission of toxic gasses, as is the case with Ghazipur,” Pandey said. The matter is likely to come up for hearing on May 3. “The   sites will adversely affect the ecosystem of the area as there are several densely populated colonies and villages nearby,” Pandey said.
 
 In April, EDMC had moved NGT to seek directions to DDA to hand over land at the two locations as the only other landfill in east Delhi — at Ghazipur — had long been saturated. DDA had earlier told the tribunal that based on the reports of CPCB and National Environmental Engineering Research Institute and its analysis, an area of 88 acres at Sonia Vihar and a 42.5-acre plot at Ghonda Gujran could be given to the EDMC for handling and processing waste. 
 
 AAP, however, claimed that CPCB’s recommendations were based on “wrong facts” and in violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The party sought heavy penalty and direct penal action taken against officials of EDMC for “wilful and deliberate concealment of facts” before NGT.
 
 AAP volunteers are expected to visit the northeast Delhi Lok Sabha constituency where the sites are located to run a signature campaign named as “Koode Ka Pahar Hatao”. A party leader said: “If the proposal is not withdrawn, AAP will take to streets over the issue.” 
 
 In his petition, Mishra alleged that EDMC had, with a “mala fide” intention, not revealed that these sites were part of the active floodplain of Yamuna river and fell under the O-Zone as per master plan of Delhi where no development could take place. 
 
 
