CHANDIGARH: In a bid to prevent security breach, the   is coming up with the   (one time password) in filing   property  . 

 The tax branch has mobile phone numbers of over 80% of tax payers. Therefore, tax filing will be connected with mobile phone so that only the owner can gain access to property tax filing details.
 
 After the launch of the online tax filing system, it will be mandatory to first fill the mobile number on the page, after that an OTP number will be generated and details of property tax will be opened. After filing the details, if the applicant wants to check, he or she will have to follow the same process again.
 
 “The security of the property of each property-holder is most crucial for us. We planned to launch the online filing of tax by the first week of April. But since we can’t compromise on security, we asked the company for the OTP security feature. This will ensure details of the each property remain safe and strengthen tax-payers’ faith in the security of the online exercise”, said  , additional municipal commissioner, who heads the tax branch of the MC.
 
 Sources in the MC revealed that the hired private agency has already fed the data of all the residential and commercial properties separately. The details have been prepared ward-wise and since the new properties have also been identified, the same have been included in the list and will surface in the fresh list of the tax payers. “In the past few years, new properties have come up in most of the sectors and villages of the city and thus the same have also fallen in the tax ambit in the current financial year. Moreover, the number of residential tax payers have also increased substantially”, sources added.
 
 The tax branch of the MC has now turned out one of the major sources of revenue for the cash-strapped Municipal Corporation, as the tax branch has earned over rupees 42.75 crores in the last financial year.
 
 The property tax witnessed its first every hike in the last financial year, ended on 31st of March. The tax branch of the MC received over 40,000 residential tax payers in the last year 2017-2018 as compared the previous -2016-2017 financial year, where the authority had received tax from merely around 20,000 residential tax payers. On the other hand the number of commercial tax payers has also gone up from around 13,000 to around 15,000.
 
 
