MUMBAI: Ahead of a   review of investor-friendly destinations, municipal chief   was called by the Prime Minister’s Office ( ) on Wednesday to apprise officials on the measures   has taken over the last year to improve the city’s Ease of Doing Business ranking.

 Mehta’s presentation focused on a slew of business-friendly reforms which the country’s richest corporation had moved towards introducing in the city. Prime Minister’s principal secretary Nripendra Misra was present at the meeting. Top officers from the   were also present. “We listed out the measures we had taken and were asked how we could work towards replicating the same in cities across the country,” Mehta told TOI.
 
 The city plays a key role in setting new benchmarks for investor-friendly initiatives given that the World Bank study is based on the indices here and in Delhi. In the 2017 report, the country witnessed a significant jump in its ranking from 130th last year to 100th. The study assesses almost 190 economies of the world based on a number of parameters like starting a business, dealing with construction permits, registering a property and paying taxes.
 
 One of the reforms proposed by Mehta is the reduction in time taken to issue an occupation certificate. From February 28, once building plans for a project are uploaded, all civic officials, from the hydraulic department to sewage operations and storm water drains to roads and traffic, would be expected to inspect the premises the same day.
 
 The BMC also presented its Geographical Information System at the meeting and informed the PMO about the 22 permissions for services that are given online. Mehta suggested that these be integrated with the central departments as well. “There are permissions of railways, defence and BARC required in a lot of cases when the property comes within a certain limit. Permissions for these could also be given online along with BMC-related permissions,” said an official.
 
 In another move, the BMC has also decided that engineers be randomly given inspection assignments.
 
