PATIALA: In a surprising move, the   ( ) on Friday didn’t make public on Friday the names of athletes who will be part of the country’s 37-member athletics contingent for the Gold Coast   in April.

 
 The AFI’s logic was that they are still deliberating on the names despite Friday being the last day to send entries to the   (CGF). However, TOI has learnt that a controversy has been brewing backstage concerning the men’s and women’s 4x400m relay squad which has led to a delay in naming the contingent.
 
 The AFI is trying to secure an undertaking from some of the notable national camp absentees that they will join the camp in the coming days before being named in the CWG squad. These include relay stars Muhammed Anas, Arokia Rajiv, Anilda Thomas, MR Poovamma and R Anu, to name a few. The AFI is struggling to fill up the 37 slots in order to name a strong contingent.
 
 The development comes after the AFI set a stiff qualification criteria for the Federation Cup senior national athletics championships, which resulted in only nine athletes making the CWG grade. A majority of participants couldn’t even come anywhere close to breaching the mark. Also, pullouts of established stars such as Vikas Gowda, Nirmala Sheoran, Lalita Babar, Tintu Luka and Jisna Mathews further compounded the federation’s miseries.
 
 However, it’s the selection of the men’s and women’s relay squads which is giving the AFI a major headache. The AFI knows that in the absence of Anas, Rajiv, Poovamma and others, the Indian team doesn’t stand a chance of securing a medal at the CWG. But, naming them without obtaining the guarantee that they will be part of the camp could lead to a major controversy. That’s why the talks and subsequent delay in finalising the squad.
 
 It has been learned that in a late development, Anas, Rajiv and Povamma’s names have been included in a 30-member squad after they agreed to become part of the camp.
 
 TOI tried to speak to top AFI officials but none of them responded to calls. Some AFI insiders, however, said that the contingent will be announced on Saturday.
 
