NEW DELHI: Delhi   has formed a three-member   to look into ways to provide   to lakhs of   and unauthorised constructions from the ongoing  , which has been ordered by the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee.

 The committee comprising south Delhi MP Ramesh Bidhuri, leader of opposition in Delhi Assembly Vijender Gupta and West Delhi MP Parvesh Sahib Singh Verma is working on possible solutions to address the problem. The committee will soon approach Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri with their suggestions.
 
 Several commercial establishments were sealed in Bidhuri’s constituency recently. The south Delhi MP has already taken up the matter with party chief Amit Shah and Puri, as close to 60% constructions in south Delhi will be affected by the sealing drive. Blaming the Delhi government for the present crisis, Bidhuri said, “It is the people who are at the receiving end for AAP government’s failure to find a solution to the problem. I met our party chief and the minister in this regard. I have requested that something should be done to provide relief to lakhs of people in the city.”
 
 The matter was discussed at the core group meeting held on January 3. Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari formed the committee to take up the matter with the Centre. “We are concerned about the issue. I have asked them to look into the matter and suggest possible solutions,” said Tiwari.
 
 The National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Bill, 2017, has been extended till December 31, 2020. BJP members said the cut-off date should be revised to 2017. “The moratorium has been extended to December 31, 2020, but the cut-off date has not been revised to 2017. Due to this, a large percentage of properties are not protected. We want the central government to consider revising the cut-off date,” said Bidhuri.
 
 Sources in government said the ministry is not inclined towards revising the cut-off date. The committee discussed the issues on Tuesday and will approach Puri with their suggestions. “Though the conversion charge has been reduced, the floor area ratio (FAR) has not been revised. Several godowns on agricultural land are facing sealing threat. DDA should come up with a policy for regulating warehouses. We will meet the minister with our suggestions,” said Gupta.
 
 
