CHANDIGARH: For streamlining of functioning of electricity department, the UT administration is all set to implement supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA) system.

 The system will help monitor performance of transformers, bringing down power breakdowns. A   study has revealed more than 95% breakdowns are due to overloading of transformers. The southern sectors — 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 47, 48, 49 — are worst-affected during the peak summer season.
 
 The non-declaration of actual load by consumers leads to erratic power supply. This also leads to problem of transformers getting overloaded and high transmission and distribution losses. The department caters to 2.15 lakh consumers — 1.75 lakh in domestic category.
 
 The SCADA system is being implemented under the National Smart Grid Mission ( ), which has been approved by the Union power ministry. The key functionalities proposed in the smart grid project are advanced metering infrastructure for all consumers, advanced distribution management systems with IT systems like data centre, disaster recovery centre,  ,  , sub-station automation system (SAS), integration of rooftop solar through net metering and distribution transformer monitoring unit.
 
 Once implemented, the project will help the department save Rs 58.98 crore annually. The department is expected to cover the cost of project in a period of over four years.
 
 A   (PMU) will be set up for monitoring the progress of the works being undertaken under the scheme. The PMU will operate under the secretary, energy, and will be operated by an external independent agency.
 
 UT superintending engineer M P Singh said the SCADA will help the department in streamlining the power distribution and ensure   to consumers.
 
 The project will also help the department in bringing down transmission and distribution losses from existing 15.37% to 8%. It will also help the department overcoming the problem of theft.
 
 The department suffered T&D losses of 15.1% in 2014, which went up to 15.17% in 2015, and again up to 15.24% in 2016. At present, there is only one 220-KV sub-station, 13 66-KV sub-stations and five 33-KV sub-stations. Five 66-KV sub-stations have completed their life span of 25 years.
 
 
