HYDERABAD: Sponge iron manufacturing industries in the city surroundings are causing massive pollution by dumping black and reddish dusty layers of coal ash and iron dust on nearby localities and farms.

 Telangana’s   (PCB) has found that the units are shutting down the air pollution control equipment during nights to save  .
 
 With increasing complaints, PCB has decided to conduct an energy audit in all the sponge iron industries and trace out the erring industries. PCB member secretary and senior IAS officer P   told TOI, “We are getting repeated complaints from residents of habitations near the sponge iron industries, particularly from Kothur area, about rampant pollution. The greenery in the area is covered with dusty black layers. Coal iron dust should remain in the industry campus and not go out.” According to the locals, there is no pollution during the day and it happens during the night. To save power bills, these industries are not switching on the anti-pollution control equipment at night.
 
  
 “We are proposing an energy audit to identify the energy consumption pattern during the day and night. If the anti-pollution control equipment is provided with separate metres, we will know the consumption,” he said. On March 22, PCB officials issued closure orders to Anand Metallics at Kothur due to coal and iron ore dust pollution.
 
 While the sponge iron ore cluster is in Kothur that falls in Mahbunagar district on the Bengaluru highway located 30 kilometres away from Hyderabad, there are other units in Shamshabad, Sangareddy and Nalgonda too.
 
 Environmental engineer   told TOI, “Several units have come up in Kothur when there was huge mining of iron ore in Bellary.” Later, a few of them shut down. A research paper titled “Mitigation of air pollution in sponge iron industries” by Chennai-based expert L Maria Subashini stated that the sponge iron industry causes air pollution due to stack emissions.
 
 Earlier due to protests and legal suits, the factories in Kothur were asked to deposit Rs 3 crore with the district administration as advance compensation for nearby farmers.
 
 
