VADODARA: A left-arm pace bowler, he played for   for 10 years before shifting to the UK. It was like a homecoming for former India cricketer, Rashid Patel who undertook a pace bowling camp of Baroda Under-19 and U-23 boys over last nine days in the city. 

 He was impressed with the talent that Baroda has to offer. “We have got some very good talent here and with effective coaching, some of these boys can very well play for India,” Patel said. 
 
 From run-up to the crease to bowling action, pacers of Baroda U-19 and U-23 teams got tips about effective bowling from Patel who has played 42 first-class matches. “I didn’t change anyone’s bowling action. I saw their bowling and asked them to make minor adjustments. I also explained them about batsman’s psychology and how to bowl at them,” Patel told TOI. One of the interesting tips that Patel gave to the 18 pacers, who attended his camp, was to increase their bowling speed.
 
 “I asked them to bowl with metal ball weighing from 1 to 1.5 kg for at least six months. This will help them in crossing the speed of 140 km per hour. But the bowlers will have to undergo shoulder strengthening and other exercises before using the metal ball,” Patel, who now imparts cricket coaching in the UK, said. 
 
 He also gave some coaching tips to Baroda Cricket Association’s (BCA) coaches. “I told them to have a uniform pattern of coaching from junior to senior level. This will help the players in maintaining their consistency,” Patel said. When asked about the difference between cricketers of 1980s and the current lot, Patel said, “The technology has advanced a lot now. Every cricketer can study his action and improvise on it. Also, players these days are fully aware of what they eat and how much calories they should take. This has helped in reducing injuries.”
 
 “The camp was organized to improve confidence and performance of fast bowlers here. Patel being an experienced cricketer gave some useful tips to both pacers and the coaches and it will go a long way in improving our cricketing performance,” said Snehal Parikh, BCA secretary (in-charge).
 
 
