HUBBALLI: Industrial and tourism activities in North Karnataka are set to get a much-needed boost in the days to come, as Hubbali is set to get air connectivity to Ahmedabad, Goa, Pune, Chennai, Kannur and Hindan air base in the next couple of months.

 After Hubbali airport was developed up to international standards, hopes were riding high among people to see more industrial activities in the region. Now, it has got wings with the central government announcing the Udan 2 service from Hubbali airport.
 
 In the next two-three months, people of North Karnataka can travel by air to various destinations at an affordable cost, by utilizing seats under the Udan quota. Flights will be operated to Ahmedabad,  , Goa and Kannur by Indigo airlines; to Hindan air base by Ghodawat air lines and Spicejet; Alliance Air and Indigo will operate flights to Chennai from Hubballi. This apart, Koppal, a backward district, will also be connected to capital cities in the country via air. Turbo aviation will operate flights to Bengaluru, Goa, and Hyderabad from Koppal on a daily basis.
 
 Speaking to TOI,  , director,  , said they have submitted 12 proposals seeking flight services to various destinations including Solapur, Pune, Chennai, Mangaluru, Jodhpur, and Hyderabad, of which 9 proposals have been approved by the  . “As a result of it, we got flights to Hyderabad, Chennai, Pune, Ahemadabad, Goa, and Cochin,” he said.
 
 Indigo has already conducted a survey to operate its service from Hubbali. As far as Spicejet is concerned, it had earlier operated its flights from Hubballi. So it may take two or three months to start the flight service to various destinations by private airlines under the Udan 2 scheme. Some seats will be reserved for air passengers under the Udan scheme, which can be utilized by passengers by paying reasonable prices. Right now,   is operating a flight with a capacity of 120 seats, to Mumbai from Bengaluru via Hubballi, thrice a week on Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday, which is getting a good response.
 
 Ramesh Patil, president, Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Hubballi, said the proposed flights under the Udan 2 scheme will surely give a fillip to industrial development in North Karnataka, mainly in Hubballi, and Belagavi cities. 
 
 “Air connectivity to Chennai, Ahmedabad and Pune will help industrialists of Hubballi and North Karnataka to export automobile components, valve components, machine components and casting materials easily. It takes at least 3-4 days to travel to Chennai or Ahmedabad for business trips in the absence of flights at the moment. We can also bring consumer electrical goods from Delhi, clothes from Coimbatore, steel from Kolkata, and other stationary materials from Pune and Mumbai due to air connectivity,” he said. 
 
 “Air connectivity to Goa will give a boost to tourism. Foreigners visiting Goa can now take a flight to Hubballi or Koppal to visit the historic Hampi town, and other tourist places in North Karnataka,” he said. 
 
 
