GURUGRAM: The headquarters of Haryana Police’s special task force (STF) was inaugurated by director general of police BS Sandhu in Gurgaon’s   on Sunday morning. The   will function from a building that earlier housed a school. It will have an additional office in the city’s traffic tower apart from units in Hisar and Karnal.

 After the inauguration, the DGP addressed the 75 members of the   and senior police officers present at the event, including BK Sinha, DGP (Bhondsi complex); P K Agrawal, ADGP (crime); other IGs and the commissioner of Gurgaon and Faridabad.
 
 The STF will be headed by inspector general Saurabh Singh. Satish Balan (SP, Jhajjar) will look after the operations and Agrawal (ADGP) will supervise it.
 
 A police spokesperson said the STF members would be given bulletproof vests, vehicles and other equipment in addition to the Glock pistols and AK-47 rifles they now carry.
 
 Sources said the STF had started liaisoning with their counterparts in other states to gather information about miscreants. State police chief Sandhu told the media the local police faced a challenge in tracking down criminals as almost all districts of Haryana share borders with other states and make it easier for the miscreants to escape. “This was factored in when the STF was proposed. Organised crime, gang rivalry, drugs, illicit arms, liquor and crime as a whole will be brought by the STF,” he said.
 
 Sandhu conceded that crimes against women had increased in the state.
 
 “We have taken several steps and the police presence has been increased. Apart from this, Operation Durga has been re-launched with the motive to curb such crimes,” he said.
 
 According to Sandhu, there has been a proposal to set up special courts to deal with crimes against women and the police have been instructed to expedite investigation in such cases and file chargesheets in 30 days.
 
 The DGP said there was also a proposal to increase the punishment for crimes against children aged below 12.
 
 “We are reviewing the proposal. Suggestions from counselors and people who have researched on criminal psychology will be taken into account,” he said, asked why an arbitrary age of 12 had been decided as the benchmark.
 
 The DGPs remarks on increasing the maximum punishment come a day after chief minister   said the government should consider the death penalty for raping a child under 12. The state police chief also said the presence of women in the   could be increased from 10% to 30%. Told about 15,000 vacant posts in the state police force, Sandhu said 5,500 people would be recruited in phases starting February, among them 1,000 women constables and 66 women sub-inspectors.
 
  The officer said a cyber police station would soon come up in Gurgaon and two women police stations would be set up in Faridabad and Gurgaon.
 
 Sandhu said 4,500 youths would graduate from the police academy in March this year and a majority of them would be deployed in Gurgaon. He said 350 personnel would be sanctioned for managing traffic in Gurgaon and 150 in Faridabad.
 
 
