Thiruvananthapuram: The first   in the city which is all set for inauguration on March 23, is set to become the first   in the country. A slew of environment-friendly initiatives make the project unique. 

 Announcing that the mall will be inaugurated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on March 23, Malabar Group chairman M P Ahammed said that they are adhering to the green initiative even though it cost them more. 
 
 The facade of the Mall of Travancore ( ), 70% of which is covered by vertical garden, is just an introduction to the green initiatives. 
 
 Mall general manager Kishore Kutty said that they are complying with the requirements to receive the Swachh Bharat certification and the zero waste international alliance certification. “We have arranged three organic waste converters having a total capacity to treat 2.5 tonnes of food waste per day. Two were placed in first floor and one on ground floor. It will turn food waste to manure in seven days,” he said. 
 
 The sewage treatment plant, which can process three lakh litres of waste per day, will help in recycling water. This recycled water will be used in cooling towers in air conditioners, in toilet flush tanks and for irrigation needs of the mall.
 
 To reduce use of plastic waste, the mall authorities are using reusable cutleries on the food courts. “Except some international food chains, all restaurants have agreed to use melamine cutleries. Even the international brands will use reusable ones. We are providing common dishwasher to encourage all of them to use reusable cutleries,” said Kishore Kutty. 
 
 In order to help percolation of rainwater to the ground, the entire walkway around the mall is laid with cobblestones. 
 
 The mall authorities said that they will use eco-friendly cleaning materials for housekeeping throughout the mall area. The city corporation and NGOs like Prakruti functioning in Technopark are providing all technical support for the green initiatives of MOT. 
 
 As part of CSR initiative, the mall will open its gates for morning walkers who can utilize the one km walkway. Shops selling fresh juices and items such as vegetables and milk will be opened early in the morning, the mall authorities said.
 
 The phase II of mall is expected to be operational by 2020.
 
 
