KOLKATA:   has become the first Bengal university to change its   rules, which will now allow students to apply for most subjects across science and humanities streams as long as they have studied that specific subject at the plus-two level.

 This will, for example, let an IGCSE student, who had chemistry but not physics, apply for chemistry at the undergraduate level; likewise, a CBSE student, who had only physics but not maths at the plus-two level, can now apply for a berth in the physics undergraduate class because of the tweaked rules.
 
 Most universities across the country allow aspirants who have studied an allied group of subjects to apply for courses; so a student seeking an undergraduate physics berth must have studied chemistry and maths as well at the plus-two level. The changed rules now allow a lot more freedom to students who may have studied one subject but not another allied subject at plus-two. University officials said this change would be implemented for most subjects, barring an exception or two.
 
 This will initially benefit IGCSE and CBSE students; both boards allow students the freedom to study subjects cutting across science and humanities streams. Academics say this trend may be picked up by other boards as well, which means the changed rules will help a larger pool of applicants in future.
 
 “We have come across cases of students, who have taken Physics and Music at the plus-two level. This makes it difficult for us to rationalise board marks. The new rules will allow students a lot more options and flexibility,” Presidency University vice-chancellor   said on Tuesday. “Students applying for most subjects will have this flexibility. Our basic philosophy behind this decision as well as the 100% weightage on admission tests is to allow students to prove their mettle without any baggage,” she added.
 
 A   professor said JU, too, was getting similar requests from boards. “We will have to rationalise admission criteria this year. We are going to take it up in the faculty council meeting soon,” the JU professor said.
 
 The relook at admission procedures and the “game-changing” new rules have been necessitated by an increasing number of applications from boards other than the  , which allow much more flexibility, say professors of both varsities.
 
 But some departments in Presidency, like Economics, may suggest exceptions from this general formula. This department may still keep Mathematics and English as compulsory board subjects for applicants. But this department, too, may go for changed rules by not specifying minimum marks needed. Students could appear for the Economics admission test only they had 80% in aggregate as well as 80% in Mathematics and 70% in English.
 
 “We will take feedback from all departments and also from the   (UGC) before sitting with the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination Board, which will conduct the admission test,” a university official said.
 
 Presidency has also decided to scale down the importance it once attached to board marks. The required aggregate for Humanities has been kept at a low 60% instead of last year’s 65%, with the only exceptions being English and History. The aggregate required for being allowed to write the admission test in Science subjects has been lowered from 80% and 75% to 70% in 2018.
 
 But the university is not going to reduce seats in streams, like Philosophy and Hindi, where seats went vacant last year. “The Philosophy department is celebrating its 150th year. It has a huge sentimental value as renowned alumni from across the world will visit our campus. So we do not want to reduce seats noiw. We are trying to find other ways so that seats in Hindi and Philosophy do not go vacant,” Lohia said.
 
 
