Surat: The International Institute of Diamond Grading and Research (IIDGR), a part of the world’s leading De Beers Group, has become the first international company in the Diamond City to install a 34.8 kilowatt solar roof at its grading and inscription facility.  In a big move for providing its operations with renewable energy supply, the IIDGR will be generating an average of 56,000 units of electricity each year, thereby reducing the heat load of the building by 90% and significantly decreasing electricity used for air-conditioning.  The IIDGR’s Surat laboratory located at the international business centre on Surat-Dumas Road is the first among the diamond industry to use solar power, with the panels being installed on its uniquely curve-shaped roof. The solar plan has a 25-year life-cycle and will have paid for itself within five years as a result of the savings on electricity expenditure.  The Diamond City has emerged as India’s leading ‘solar smart city’ according to the bi-monthly newsletter of the ministry of new and renewable energy, Government of India titled Ákshay Urja’. According to the smart cities guidelines under the ‘Smart Cities Mission’ launched by the Government of India, at least 10% of the smart city’s energy required should be met by solar power. Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) had sought project management consultancy of Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), New Delhi, for carrying out feasibility studies and implementation of solar and energy-efficient projects. Rooftop potential of 11,924 mega watt (MW) was found distributed among various smart cities of the country, of which nearly 418MW, or 3.5%, existed in the city.  The solar revolution under the civic body was kick-started with the launch of solar rooftop programme in September 22, 2016, which is now celebrated as Solar Equinox Day.  IIDGR president Jonathan Kendall said, “Over the past two years, we have measured our carbon footprint and used this information to adapt our business practices in order to reduce our environmental impact and generate cost-savings in our energy and water consumption. Sustainability is key for De Beers and this new solar operation is very much in line with our core beliefs. Meanwhile, installation of the plant provides financial benefits alongside positive environmental impact.” 