MUMBAI: The BMC has made every effort to ensure there is no repeat of the August 29, 2017, deluge,   assured chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday. The assurance, along with a presentation, was given the day the monsoon arrived in Kerala. Monsoon is expected to reach Mumbai by June 6-8.

 While major nullahs have been cleaned, work on filling   across the city would be completed by June 1, said Mehta during the BMC’s pre-monsoon preparedness presentation before the   at Wednesday’s meeting, which also had representatives from the army, navy, air force, and coast guard. Mehta also informed the cabinet that trimming of trees is under way—the BMC had identified nearly 90,000 trees that needed to be trimmed.
 
 
  
 Other civic bodies also submitted their presentations. 
 
 Mehta said besides cleaning major nullahs, this year, the BMC also focused on micro-mitigation measures. “We marked the spots that had flooded on August 29, 2017, found the reason for the flooding, like railway cables blocking a drain or short and narrow pipes, and fixed the problems.” Using digital cameras, civic officials surveyed 115 culverts along Central Railway and Western Railway lines, got them cleaned and then took pictures of the cleaned drains. “This was done to ensure there is a check on the contractors,” Mehta said.
 
 At two sites where the drains running below the railway lines were narrow, the BMC got CR to instal high-capacity pumps to throw out water.
 
 Gearing up for heavy rain days, the BMC has identified around 200 flooding sites and installed pumps to draw out excess rainwater. It has also identified 1,400 manholes in areas that often get waterlogged and fitted them with a wire mesh so that even if the cover is removed, the mesh will prevent anyone from falling in. This measure has been put in place after the death of gastroenterologist Dr Deepak Amrapurkar, who fell into an open manhole while walking along a flooded road near Elphinstone Road station on August 29, 2017. His body was found in Worli two days later. Locals had opened the manhole to drain out the excess rainwater.
 
 Mehta said the rain-carrying capacity of the city’s drains is 50mm per hour, but this is not sufficient. “Local issues need to be sorted out. And, we also pray.”
 
 At the meeting, the state cabinet approved the   plan and rules for its implementation across the state. A cabinet sub-committee has also been set up to ensure quick disbursement of relief, in case of a natural disaster. The navy will post divers at Colaba, Worli and Malad, while the National Disaster Response Force will be stationed at Andheri Sport Club.
 
 
