LUDHIANA: When it comes to gaffes, there is no line of control for schools of the district. In a goof-up, four Ludhiana-based private schools, while submitting information under U-DISE ( ) project of the ministry of human resource department, have shown their location on Line of Control (LoC).

 Forty-six schools have shown their location on border areas and near bank of a river, which is also incorrect. The information has bewildered officials of the local educational department, who have sent fresh notices to the schools to make necessary changes by January 10.
 
 U-DISE is a national survey under which schools have to send detailed information, including enrolment: class-wise, age-wise and stream-wise, details of teachers, their salaries and infrastructure.
 
 The district has approximately 1,400 private schools, out of which 534 filled information about pre-primary classes, but have shown zero enrolment. Some schools have shown number of classrooms and toilets lesser than previous year.
 
 Information of 1,827 teachers in different schools is also incomplete, as the schools have not mentioned their joining and subject details, among other things.
 
 The deadline for sending information was December 5, but 500 schools did not adhere to it. Following this a meeting was called by the education department to help schools complete the task. The director general of school education then gave the deadline of December 11.
 
 On December 13, a list of 127 private, aided and associated schools in the district was sent to the director general of school education, chairman of   and state nodal in-charge of the Right to Education Act, recommending stern action for not adhering to the deadline despite reminders.
 
 However, now when all 2,981 schools, including private, government and aided ones, in the district have finally submitted the information, the goof-ups have baffled the education department.
 
 Coordinator of management information system (MIS) under   said, “District education officer (secondary)   has issued a letter to all the schools that have goofed up and they have been asked to make corrections by January 10. This is negligence. Many schools are very small and don’t even have efficient staff to compile information. The schools should take it seriously as it is a national-level survey of the MHRD. Schools showing themselves near LoC and border areas have exhibited their irresponsibility.” 
 
 All schools in the district have erred in compiling information. They have been told to submit the information again, he added.
 
 
