The   on Monday agreed to hear   blast accused Lt Col Shrikant Purohit’s plea for quashing his prosecution under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and sought the Maharashtra government and National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) responses within four weeks. 

 A bench of Justices R K Agrawal and A M Sapre turned down Purohit’s plea for a stay on the Bombay high court order which had allowed the trial to go ahead.
 
  contended in the apex court, through his lawyer Neela Gokhale, that the HC erred in dismissing his appeal and no proper sanction was taken to prosecute him under UAPA. The petition said that under UAPA, the state’s law and judiciary department has to seek a report from an appropriate authority before granting sanction.
 
 “The sanction was given in January 2009 but the authority was appointed only in October 2010. Hence the sanction order stands vitiated,” he said in his petition.
 
 Six persons were killed and nearly 100 injured when a bomb strapped to a motorcycle exploded in Malegaon in Nashik district on September 29, 2008. Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur and Purohit were arrested with nine others for the blast conspiracy. NIA, which took over the probe from Maharashtra’s Anti-Terrorism Squad, gave a clean chit to Sadhvi Pragya. 
 
 Purohit, the first serving   officer to be arrested on a terror charge, was attached with military intelligence and interior terrorism (insurgency activities) when arrested by ATS in connection with the bomb attacks.
 
 Eight years and eight months after his arrest, the SC had in August released Purohit on bail, noting glaring contradictions between the positions of Maharashtra ATS and NIA about his role in the crime.
 
 “Keeping in view that NIA’s supplementary chargesheet is at variance with the chargesheet filed by ATS, and that the trial is likely to take long, and Purohit has been in prison for about eight years and eight months, Purohit has made out a prima facie case for release on bail and we deem it appropriate to enlarge him on bail,” the court had said while granting him bail.
 
 Pleading for bail, Purohit had told the SC that he was caught in “political crossfire” and was falsely implicated in the case.
 
