NEW DELHI: The Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre (UTTIPEC) on Thursday approved three   to decongest  . While two of them would improve the connectivity to airport, the other aims at upgrading the road infrastructure near the proposed exhibition-cum-convention centre in Dwarka.

 The northern Mahipalpur bypass pending for the past two years, has been approved by the traffic and transport infrastructure planning body headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. The project was conceived by PWD in 2016, but was transferred to   in November 2017 following delay in clearing the project. 
 
 In 2016, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry had decided to fund 80% of the Rs 188 crore project, which would now be funded by the Centre entirely.
 
 The plan is to construct an underpass at NH-8 and two flyovers to provide smooth traffic movement between south Delhi and airport. Officials said, once constructed, it would substantially bring down the travel time as well. 
 
 The body also approved a proposal to decongest Aurobindo Marg. Though, PWD is carrying out road widening work on the stretch near Adchini T-point, officials said there are some geometric design changes which need to be made to ease traffic movement. UTTIPEC officials said intersection improvement work has to be carried out at Aurobindo Chowk, Adchini T-point and Andheria Mor.
 
 Aurobindo Marg, official said, is an important arterial road and with new constructions (Kidwai Nagar redevelopment) coming up, the load on the road would increase. PWD plans to improve the corridor between Andheria Mor and Mahipalpur. While the work at Aurobindo Chowk would be carried out by New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), PWD would look into the other two sections.
 
 The third project is a grade separator in Dwarka’s Sector 25 where an exhibition-cum-convention centre would come up. The proposal was submitted by Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Development Corporation (DMICDC), which would construct the centre to upgrade the road infrastructure. The main connectivity to ECC from Delhi to Gurgaon is from Dwarka expressway, which is being developed by National Highway Authority of India.
 
 
