SHIMLA: Failure of   government in installing Image Guided Linear Accelerator Machine at the only cancer hospital of the state—Tertiary Cancer Centre—at Shimla has resulted into a delay of two months for   to get radiation therapy. The patients suffer with the continued use of 20-year-old Cobalt machine that is exposing them to many side-effects. Around four years ago, Rs 45 crore was approved for the new machine but till date the amount has not been put to use.

 According to sources, the Cobalt machine being used at cancer hospital to provide radiation therapy to patients needs to be replaced with high-end Image Guided Radio Therapy (IGRT) Linear Accelerator machine to reduce the chances of side-effects and to increase the survival rate. Use of IGRT Linear Accelerator machine improves the precision and accuracy of treatment delivery, they added.
 
 Sources said around 100 to 124 patients need radiation therapy for their treatment at the earliest but will have to undergo a waiting period of two months for the procedure. “During this waiting period there are higher chances that cancer can advance from an early stage to incurable or advanced stage in the patient,” they added.
 
 While the states like Punjab, Haryana and J&K are using Linear Accelerator machines, Himachal Pradesh is yet to switch over to latest technology for the benefit of patients. Official sources said in the absence of Linear Accelerator machine, poor patients are being referred to PGI, Chandigarh, or private hospitals for treatment. While in Himachal Pradesh the treatment is free of cost, the cost for the same is around Rs 3 lakh outside, they added.
 
 Chief minister   on April 21 said that the staff shortage would be looked into in order to start with the usage of the Rs 23-crore Linear Accelerator machine, which was otherwise lying unused in Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College Tanda in Kangra district due to lack of staff for its operation. He had said that similar machine will also would be installed in Shimla as soon as the new building comes up.
 
 There is a demand that the new Linear Accelerator machine should be installed at hospital in the existing set up where Cobalt machine is set up as the construction of new building would take years and till then new machines would not be installed as a result of which patients will be on the receiving end.
 
 When contacted on the issue, senior medical superintendent of   and Hospital, Dr Janak Raj said that the chief minister has already announced to install the new machines and efforts would be made to provide the machines at the earliest.
 
