LUCKNOW: With just two days left for the crucial Rajya Sabha elections in the state, a high voltage drama is brewing as both the alliances — BJP-led NDA and SP-BSP supported by the   and RLD — are working overtime for the victory of their extra candidate, trying to poach rival camps.

 The  , which won the two recently held byelections with the BSP’s support, wants to reciprocate by ensuring the victory of BSP candidate Bhimrao Ambedkar.
 
 Within a fortnight of the two bypolls, it is once again going to be a direct contest between chief minister   and SP chief  , who has become the face of the SP-BSP alliance for Rajya Sabha election.
 
 In swift developments, SP MLA Rakesh Pratap Singh is throwing a dinner in Lucknow on Wednesday, inviting all party MLAs, apparently to check whether the party’s house was in order. Similarly Yogi has also invited all BJP MLAs at his official residence on Wednesday to prepare the strategy for defeating BSP’s candidate, who has support of all anti-BJP parties.
 
 BSP national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP   met the election commission in Delhi on Tuesday to ensure that the state government allows two imprisoned MLAs, Mukhtar Ansari of the BSP and Hari Om Yadav of the SP, to cast their votes on March 23.
 
 In another development, SP MLC Udaiveer Singh met Hariom Yadav of Ferozabad in jail on Monday to complete the formalities for his release for the Rajya Sabha election. Initially, it was feared that Hariom Yadav might shift loyalties, but sources revealed that he would not desert the SP. Hariom Yadav is a close relative of the party patron, Mulayam Singh Yadav.
 
 For the BJP, this election is most crucial as it has already lost two byelections and any setback in the Rajya Sabha election would further dent the image of the party at a time when the Opposition is feeling emboldened by its victory in Yogi’s stronghold Gorakhpur and Phulpur, represented by deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya.
 
 The BJP-led NDA has a strength of 325 MLAs, with BJP alone having 311, the SBSP four and Apna Dal 11. The party has fielded nine candidates. Eight candidates will win easily, leaving 28 votes spare for the ninth candidate, Anil Agarwal.
 
 Now BJP needs eight more votes, for which it is eyeing the independents and one-man parties, apart from the black sheep in rival camps. The ruling party has already won over Nitin Agarwal, who along with his father  , has defected to the BJP. The BJP is using Nitin as bait to lure in other MLAs of the SP and the Congress camps.
 
 The SP has fielded Jaya Bachchan who would sail through with 37 MLAs out of 47, leaving nine votes spare for BSP’s Ambedkar. Also, seven MLAs of the Congress and the lone RLD MLA have announced their support to Ambedkar.
 
 With this, the SP-BSP alliance has support of 36 MLAs and if it is able to muster vote of the two independents, including Raghuraj Pratap Singh, it can stun the ruling party.
 
