 :   local government minister Navjot Singh   on Sunday said the tippers carrying sand should be weighed, and any overloaded vehicles or those carrying material illegally should be impounded. Meanwhile,   president Sunil Jakhar said illegal mining had been curbed to an extent but a lot was needed to put an end to it.

 The leaders made these comments while responding to queries over illegal sand mining at a press conference held at  , Jalandhar. Sidhu also advocated levying of Rs 7 on each unit of power consumed by stone crushers. He said it would add Rs 1,500 crore to the state kitty as there were a little over 1,000 crushers in Punjab.
 
 
 “Any truck found to be carrying sand more than what’s mentioned on the slip issued by the mining contractor should be impounded,” he said. He admitted that the trucks were not being impounded.
 
 Jakhar said the main concern of their government was for consumers to get sand at affordable prices and to end illegal mining. He said while several strong steps had already been taken to curb illegal mining, a lot needed to be done and the government was working towards that.
 
 Both Sidhu and Jakhar said while earlier only Rs 40 lakh were going to the state exchequer from sand mining, now around Rs 450 crore had already been added to the state kitty.
 
 Meanwhile, Sidhu said the state government had released funds worth Rs 1,540.90 crore for completion of ongoing sewerage projects in the state. He said Rs 141.53 crore would be spent in the Jalandhar district. He said funds to the tune of Rs 64.97 crore had been already given for these projects. Sidhu said the remaining funds had been sanctioned for early completion of the projects.
 
 He also said in order to ensure proper quality check of these works, the state government would hire young engineers from the engineering colleges or universities, who would be nominated by the university, for random checking of these projects. Likewise, Sidhu said the state government would also install display boards in the urban areas to inform the people about the nature of development work being done in their area. He said this would also help in enhancing the quality of work done by the agencies.
 
