WASHINGTON/ISLAMABAD: Pakistan claimed on Tuesday it had thwarted a US bid to place it on a terror-financing watch-list although it appeared the country has been granted another three-month reprieve to clean up its act by a Paris-based international watchdog monitoring compliance.

 The US, however, believes the   will take a final decision on Pakistan and other countries on Thursday.
 
 “Our efforts paid, FATF Paris 20Feb meeting conclusion on the US-led motion to put Pakistan on watch list — No consensus for nominating Pakistan,'' Pakistan foreign minister   tweeted on Tuesday evening, based on which Pakistani media reported that “'US bid to put Pakistan on terror financing watch-list falls through.”
 
 But in the very next line, Asif revealed that the meeting was “'proposing 3 months pause & asking APG for another report to be considered in June”, indicating that the reprieve was routine and subject to Islamabad fulfilling its obligation to crack down on terror financing. APG stands for the Asia-Pacific Group on Money Laundering in the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), which took up the matter of Pakistan’s patronage of terrorism this week during its quarterly meeting.
 
 In Washington, US state department spokesperson Heather Nauert told reporters in response to a question on Khwaja Asif’s tweet that the US was “anticipating that the final decision would be made on Thursday of this week”.
 
 “I cannot (respond to the tweet) because my understanding was that the final decision on that was due later this week. I don't want to get ahead of what that final decision would be. I don't have just independent confirmation that a decision was made early,” she was quoted as saying by news agencies.
 
 Asif, who was reported to be in Moscow, had tweeted “Grateful to friends who helped,” a clear reference to Russia, and China, which typically gives cover to Pakistan’s terrorism troubles and was expected to plead Islamabad be given more time. With no sympathy from the Western world because of its patronage of terror groups, Pakistan has been conspicuously courting Moscow in addition to its close ties with Beijing in an effort to counter its isolation from the US.
 
 Sources at Pakistan’s foreign ministry said Islamabad’s success was due to intense diplomatic efforts. “China, Turkey and Russia, all of whom are part of FATF, opposed the motion, which was jointly moved by the US and the UK against Pakistan,” official sources said. After failing to arrive at a consensus, sources claimed, the global watchdog dropped its plan to table the motion for voting in its plenary session starting on Wednesday.
 
 To avoid inclusion in the FATF watch list, the government had also amended the country’s anti-terrorism law on February 9 through a presidential ordinance in a bid to address some concerns of the FATF/APG. The legislation provided legal ground for action against UN-banned organisations like Lashkar-e-Taiba, headed by the Mumbai attacks mastermind Hafiz Saeed.
 
 “It appears that Pakistan’s recent move to ban the activities of Saeed-led Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD), Falah-e-Insaniyat Foundation (FIF) and other related outfits played a vital role in helping Islamabad’s case at FATF meeting,” said Fasihur Rehman, an analyst.
 
 Pakistani commentators also claimed that support from the Gulf nations and Pakistan’s recent supply of troops to Saudi Arabia for its war on Yemen swung the issue in its favour.
 
 “Good News! Apparently FATF failed to achieve consensus against Pakistan & matter is delayed for a while. GCC switched sides & supported Pakistan. Gen. Bajwa’s last-minute ‘troop diplomacy’ to Saudi Arabia delivered. But Indians will come back soon!” tweeted Moeed Pirzada, a TV talking head, with the familiar allusion to New Delhi’s hand in Pakistan’s reputation as a terrorism sanctuary.
 
 However, news of the FATF reprieve was received sceptically in Pakistan even as Washington remained silent on the matter.
 
 “This is the normal process and time span given for reprieve warning. We all want Pakistan to come out of watch list nominations, but so far there’s no indication at all that the voting line-up will change in 3 months. Please don’t become complacent and ignore the danger,” PPP lawmaker and former Pakistan ambassador to Washington Sherry Rehman cautioned.
 
 The Pakistani media has been hysterical, bordering on panicky, about the effects of grey-listing by FATF even though Islamabad has lived through the stigma before in the 2012-2015 period. With greater financial compliance across the world, they fear that Pakistan will lose the little foreign investment it gets and terms of raising capital and borrowing will become more stringent and expensive.
 
