New Delhi: The Delhi assembly could see political volatility on Tuesday with the Aam Aadmi Party government setting out its tussle with the office of the lieutenant governor over policy, projects and bureaucracy in the form of a white paper. This will take the form of “outcomes” of the LG’s “performance”, detailing the file movement of proposals, policies caught in delays and approvals taking between a month and over 400 days.

 The white paper is likely to tell the inside story of file movement, alongside remarks and counter remarks, objections, approvals and rejections of proposals like delivery of services, 1,000 mohalla clinics, doorstep delivery of ration, higher education loan guarantee, formation of town vending committees and hiking of the minimum wage.
 
 The tussle, manifested so far in letter wars and social media posts, will now see the   asserting red tape stalling many of its politically ambitious plans. The report, which will be presented by deputy chief minister  , is premised on the justification that a white paper on outcomes of the LG’s office is important “to ensure that this institution remains accountable to the people of Delhi”.
 
 Reliable sources said that the political executive, based on the assessment of the file movement in the last three years, views the LG as not expressing any “substantive difference of opinion”. What he does often is to raise objections, ask for clarifications or refer matters to central government departments. It is learnt that the report has a five-point conclusion, based on classification of projects with varying statuses — from approval to reconsideration and response awaited.
 
 On the LG seeking clarifications or raising objections, the report, it is learnt, is likely to highlight that after such a request, the administrative departments take months to put up the file before the cabinet again.
 
 Another trend likely to find its way into the report is about the LG referring issues back to specific departments such as law and finance. “It is the prerogative of the cabinet to consult the departments before a cabinet meeting. Therefore, when a proposal is sent back to any of the departments whose views have already been taken by the cabinet, the message is clear: that this particular proposal of the elected government needs to be delayed or derailed,” a government source argued. An example, the source said, could be the case related to town vending committees, in which the law department, which had vetted the draft rules, raised several objections after its opinion was sought by the lieutenant governor.
 
 The report could also take up cases being referred to the central government by the LG. “Regarding the compensation of Rs 1 crore given to an armed personnel who dies on duty, the revenue department writes several letters to the defence ministry, often receiving no response, ensuring the proposal for the ex-gratia payment remains in cold storage,” a source revealed.
 
 The political executive seems to have concluded that the LG can only express a difference of opinion as per the Constitution. It has been pointed out that the LG has expressed such a difference of opinion in only two cases: upgradation of the pay scales of DANICS officers and the grant of ex-gratia compensation to the family of subedar Ram Kishen Grewal.
 
 
