GHAZIABAD: Two employees of a Mumbai-based bullion firm were allegedly robbed of 10 kg   by four men at   in   on Sunday night. The crime took place on G T Road around 10.45pm. The estimated value of the lost jewellery is nearly Rs 3 crore.

 According to police, two employees of Union Chains & Jewellers, having its head office in Zaveri Bazar of Mumbai, were returning to Delhi from   in a hired cab. 
 
 The two —Rohit Jain (28), a marketing executive and his associate Kishan—were accompanied by a business partner of the duo based in Delhi, identified as Deepak, and the driver of their cab, Ramashish.
 
 The victims told police that they had travelled to Meerut in order to show samples of jewellery to prospective clients who own retail stores in the city. Rohit and Kishan had carried the jewellery from Mumbai to Delhi via train and had later taken it to Meerut in a taxi.
 
 The   was allegedly committed by four men who were travelling in a Maruti hatchback car. Two of the four robbers were wearing uniforms resembling those used by Delhi Police.
 
 As per Rohit’s complaint, the robbers threatened them after signalling their car to stop on the pretext of checking near the Railway Station cut on GT Road.
 
 “Two men dressed in police uniforms got down from a Maruti car and came over to us. One of the men sat near the driver of our car while the other forcibly sat in the rear seat. They began thrashing us inside the car. There were two other men sitting inside their car who were in plainclothes. They forcibly drove us to a secluded service lane near the Karan Gate police outpost where they snatched away our bags and pushed us aside before escaping from the spot,” Rohit has alleged in the complaint.
 
 Rohit and Kishan had reached Delhi on Sunday morning on the Mumbai-Delhi Rajdhani Express. They had started for Meerut at around 11 am along with Deepak in a car that had been provided to them by an acquaintance in Delhi. They had reached Meerut at around 2 pm and gone around showing samples of gold jewellery to clients. They had left Meerut for Delhi at around 8 pm. The crime took place after they had finished their dinner in an eatery on the Ghaziabad-Meerut highway.
 
 “The men had sold some sample jewellery that they were carrying in Meerut. We have obtained CCTV footage that will prove crucial in investigations. The employees had also not followed security guidelines issued by the reserve bank for transporting large amounts of cash or jewellery,” said SP (City) Akash Tomar.
 
 The police registered an FIR pertaining to robbery in Sahibabad police station on Monday on the basis of a complaint lodged by Rohit.
 
 
