NEW DELHI: The   (BCI) has sought debarment of lawyer-MPs from appearing before judges of the   and high courts, whose impeachment they seek. 

  In a resolution passed by the general council meeting of BCI, the apex body regulating legal profession, said MPs and MLAs could not be banned from practising law but they should be restrained from appearing before a judge whose removal they seek. 
 
 "The BCI has come to a final conclusion that we cannot stop or ban MPs from practising in the courts, but there is an exception to it. The lawyer-MPs or MLAs, if they start any motion of impeachment or removal proceedings against any high court or Supreme Court judge, will not be allowed to practise in that particular court. This is the majority view of the council," BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra said.
 
 The decision comes at a time when the opposition is planning to bring a motion in the   for removal of Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra amid the likelihood of senior lawyers P Chidambaram, Kapil Sibal, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Vivek Tankha (all  ), KTS Tulsi (nominated by and aligned with Congress) and Majeed Memon (NCP) backing the move.
 
 The decision was taken on the basis of the recommendation of a sub-committee of BCI set up to look into the petition of   member Ashwini Upadhyay that sitting MPs and MLAs should be barred from practising in courts..
 
 The committee submitted a report saying they should not be restrained from practising as lawyers but recommended that they should not be allowed to appear before a judge who is facing removal under Judges (Inquiry) Act, 1968. 
 
 BCI is also likely to take the same stand before the Supreme Court which asked for its opinion on barring MPs and MLAs from practising law. 
 
 Citing Rule 49 of   of India, the regulatory body for lawyers, Upadhyay told the court that no salaried person could practise law even if he had professional qualification and was registered as an advocate with the Bar Council concerned. "There is absolutely no doubt that an MP receives a salary from the government as per Article 106 of the Constitution," he had said in his plea in the SC. 
 
 Citing a 1966 judgement, he said the SC had rejected a doctor's petition seeking permission to practise as an advocate. The petitioner said it would be a clear violation of rules and professional ethics for an advocate to take salary and perquisites, including official residence, from the government as an MP and at the same time take fee from private litigants and appear against the government. "It would amount to professional misconduct," he said.
 
 
