THANE: The core city area of   saw the highest number of litterbugs spotted and penalised while   seemed to be the cleanest zone with barely a few litterers in January, revealed a study conducted by the   ( ). 

 Statistics available with the solid waste management department showed that the Naupada administrative ward that houses the main vegetable markets and retail units has seen 3,668 litterers spotted and fined in January by the newly deployed cleanliness marshals. Uthalsar ward trailed with 2,170 cases of littering registered in the entire month. 
 
 Mumbra and Railadevi saw the least number of litterbugs with 640 and 722 respectively. The dense areas in the city and suburbs that comprise low and middle income groups surprisingly show less numbers of citizens spotted while littering the city premises. 
 
 The TMC had deployed 245 cleanliness marshals in all wards of the city and recovered Rs 11 lakh revenue from violators. Nearly 19,000 litter louts were spotted of which 5,000 were penalised last month. Officials said that based on this study, the TMC plans to take up corrective action in individual wards, including setting up waste bins, spittoons, etc. in the respective areas. 
 
 Activists have expressed surprise and said the TMC must take up the campaigns more aggressively and dissuade residents from dirtying their neighborhood. “It is surprising to note the core city areas are so dirty while other suburbs that are known to maintain poor hygiene and cleanliness have shown less offenders. The civic body must give special attention to these areas, but residents also assume equal responsibility by not littering the area,” said Dr Mahesh Bedekar, a citizen activist. 
 
 Corporators questioned if the marshals in all the wards have been performing their duties diligently and claimed the disparity could be due to unequal deployment of staff in the wards. “It seems the contractor must have deployed maximum wardens in Naupada ward as it is one of the densest zones in the city. The TMC must ensure the wardens fan out in all parts of the city and not just look after recovering revenue,” said BJP corporator Sanjay Waghule. 
 
 Officials from the solid waste management department justified the high levels of offenders in the core city area was because the stretch including Gaondevi market, railway station and bus stations saw heavy footfalls. 
 
 
