LUDHIANA: “Despite materialistic progress, the quest for improving the quality of life still persists,” said Prof Ramesh Chand, member of NITI Aayog, while inaugurating the 21st Punjab   on ‘Scientific Advances for Inclusive Development and Environmental Protection’ at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Wednesday.   has organised the   under the aegis of Punjab Academy of Sciences ( ), Patiala.

 Prof Chand said science can play a vital role in improving the quality of life. It is time for society to reflect what the present trend in science is, what are its strengths and weaknesses, and what we are doing, he reflcted. India, with 34% in terms of investment in research and development by private sector is ahead of China, which has invested 23% in the same. But in publications, India needs to step up, he added. Prof Chand called for inter-disciplinary collaborations to check natural resource depletion and protect the environment. “Science often helps create miracles,” he said, while adding it can go a long way in benefiting the farmers.
 
 In his presidential remarks, vice-chancellor of PAU Baldev Singh Dhillon said, “Though there has been progress, the disparity between rural and urban, agriculture and non-agriculture still exists.” Detailed analysis of inclusive development and   needs to be done, he added. This calls for developing networks, putting up research together, utilising resources, minimising duplication and coming up with recommendations, he said.
 
 In her welcome address, dean of College of Basic Sciences and Humanities, PAU, and convener of the organising committee G K Sangha said the pace of growth at all levels and in all disciplines needs to be accelerated.
 
 PAS president I J S Bansal said innovation in agriculture has enhanced the production. Science, technology and innovation are the key factors for economic growth, he added. New discoveries including new technologies and techniques will surely make the world a better place to live in, he remarked.
 
 PAS secretary Dr Jagtar Singh said PAS was established to promote scientists’ contributions and motivate scientists, teachers and students to excel in their fields.
 
 About 900 delegates from Punjab and adjoining states including renowned agricultural scientists, experts from government and non-government organisations, corporate representatives, and 200 students and teachers from schools attended the inaugural session.
 
 On the occasion, PAS conferred adjunct professor of School of Agricultural Biotechnology, PAU, D S Brar, with the lifetime achievement award for his outstanding contribution to agriculture. In addition, fellowships were awarded to Ashwani Kumar (entomology), H S Bedi (cardiovascular), Inderjeet Singh (environmental sciences),   (biochemistry and biomolecular studies) and Yadvendra Singh (soil science). Shailender Jain received Gurcharan Singh Oration Award for his contribution to electrical engineering while Puneet Girdhar received Dr Lal Singh Oration Award for his contribution to medical sciences.
 
 Apart from this, eminent scientists were honoured for their significant contributions to the development of landmark varieties. 
 
 During the inauguration, the chief guest released a set of publications and a CD. An exhibition, highlighting 50 years of Green Revolution, was also put up by the Centre for Communication and International Linkages, PAU.
 
 
