Nagpur: At a time when state CM Devendra Fadnavis has assured   to 60% of the city areas having water network by December end this year, the water works department of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation has informed the general body that out of 68, only 16 command areas are getting 24X7 water supply.

 The project implemented by the NMC in 2011 is still not complete. Executive engineer of the NMC’s water works department Sanjay Gaikwad informed the general body that out of Rs387 crore sanctioned for the scheme, works worth Rs292 crore has been carried out.
 
 However, when senior Congress corporator Sandip Sahare sought details lists of the command areas and localities getting around the clock water, Gaikwad failed to provide them. As reported by TOI on March 5, even in Dharampeth zone, which is the city’s first zone to receive 24X7 supply under the pilot project, water is being supplied through tankers. Many corporators from BSP and Congress joined Sahare and started creating ruckus, following which the mayor adjourned the house.
 
 Congress corporator Neha Nikose, leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve and other Congress corporators staged a demonstration outside Town Hall in Mahal over the erratic supply in many localities in Prabhag number 2-A (north Nagpur). In a memorandum to Mudgal, she has demanded that the work of pipeline laying in Gaikwad layout, Sugat Nagar, Samtanagar etc be completed. 
 
 The house cleared the proposal of water works department to entrust Wapcos Limited, a public sector enterprise under the aegis of the Union Ministry of Water Resources, to carry-out the Rs248 crore Amrut project in unauthorized layouts in the city.
 
 The NMC had three options to implement the Amrut project — give the work to Maharashtra Jeevan Pradihikaran (MJP), invite tenders or give the work to Wapcos. “The administration was not in favour of assigning the work to MJP, while the tendering procedure will further delay the work. So we have decided to entrust the work to Wapcos company which comes under union minister Nitin Gadkari,” said ruling party leader Sandip Joshi.
 
 
