AHMEDABAD : The group of friends — Rahul Barad, 21, a resident of Prahladnagar; Romil Patva, 23, from Navrangpura; Dhairya Patel, 23, from Thaltej; Parth Pipavat, 23, a resident of Satellite and Maharshi Tripathi, 21, a resident of Bopal — had started off in a car Rahul borrowed from a friend late on Wednesday night. Sources said the group first watched a film at a multiplex on SG Road and then headed towards   for a late dinner.

 According to the complaint filed with A Division traffic police by Anil Pipavat, Parth’s father, he didn’t see Parth at home at about midnight and phoned him. Parth told him he was out with friends and they were going to an eatery on SP Ring Road.
 
 “At about 2.53am, he got a call from an EMRI 108 paramedic informing him about the tragic incident. While Parth and Maharshi suffered minor injuries, the three other friends were charred to death in the car near Bhadaj Circle on the road from Vaishnodevi Circle. According to Parth’s primary statement, the incident took place at about 2.15am when a dumper, taking a right turn, did not have its turn indicator on,” said an investigator.
 
 Rahul, behind the wheel, apparently could not control the vehicle and the car hit the dumper in the back. Parth and Maharshi, sitting on the left side of the car, managed to get out in time as the car soon went up in flames. 
 
 Rajesh Bhatt, additional chief fire officer,   (AFES), said the fire may have been sudden and of a very high temperature. 
 
 “The victims clearly didn’t get the time to escape. The doors locked soon after and the trio were charred in minutes. We learned that a few passers-by tried to help. We believe the car’s engine caught fire due to friction at high speed and this ignited the fuel and started the fire,” he said.
 
 Investigators said they have sought help from forensic science experts to ascertain how the accident took place. “There are tracks near the spot clearly showing the direction of the car and the dumper. It is possible the car driver thought that there was enough space to pass before the dumper turned. As the car was at speed, it went out of control and hit the dumper. As the entire car is completely charred, there is no way one can analyse the equipment or look for other clues,” said an investigator.
 
 The two survivors have been admitted to two different hospitals in the city. Investigators said their statements will likely be recorded on Friday.
 
 
