CHANDIGARH: Dera Sacha Sauda chairperson  , one of the accused in the conspiracy behind violence in Panchkula on August 25, 2017, walked into a Sirsa police station on Wednesday to join the investigations.

 Special investigations team (SIT) head deputy superintendent of police (DSP)   interrogated her for nearly 6 hours before letting her go. Vipassana was allowed to leave despite Panchkula court warrants against her, as she is one of the main accused in the Panchkula violence case.
 
 “She could be wanted in a case in Panchkula. She is not a proclaimed offender, hence we could not arrest her in the Panchkula case. We had informed the Panchkula police after she joined investigations here. As the Panchkula SIT could not reach and we could not keep her after sunset, we allowed her to leave. She will be called as and when required in future,” Sirsa superintendent of police (SP) Simardeep Singh said.
 
 On February 12, the Sirsa SIT had served a notice on the dera, asking Vipassana to join the investigations before February 15.
 
 Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Manbir Singh confirmed to have received a message from Sirsa about Vipassana joining the investigations. “We got a message around 2.45-3pm. Our team is already on the way. It takes at least five hours to reach Sirsa from Panchkula, hence our team could not be there in time,” he said.
 
 Haryana DGP B S Sandhu denied any lapse or laxity on the part of the Sirsa or Panchkula police. “Vipassana has joined the investigations in the Sirsa case. The Panchkula SIT will issue her a notice and, accordingly, further action will follow,” he said.
 
 Sandhu, however, evaded further queries on Vipassana, citing reasons for being busy in making arrangements for BJP chief Amit Shah’s Jind rally.
 
 As the chairperson of Dera Sacha Sauda, Vipassana was second-in-command after sect head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. She is accused of playing an active role in conspiring to provoke violence on August 25, 2017 after Gurmeet was held guilty.
 
 According to police, Vipassana had convened and actively participated in the meeting of key functionaries held at the dera premises on August 17, 2017 where the conspiracy was hatched.
 
 According to the SIT probe, she also tried to mislead the government by sending out a tweet asking the dera followers to withdraw. She had gone missing after the Panchkula court had issued arrest warrants against her.
 
 
