Last year,   made his debut on TV with the show  , where he played a negative character. However, the actor admits that the experience of working in films is quite different from that of the small screen. Also, it was gruelling and exhausting. In a candid chat, Zayed opens up about historical shows on TV and how an actor can never really grow in this medium, if he is not willing to experiment. Excerpts:

 
 
 Films and TV are different mediums and they expect different things from you. While working on a TV show was an excellent learning experience, at the same time, it was brutal. It was experimental — we wanted to bring in film quality, but we realised that however interesting it was, making a show with so many expectations from audiences was an uphill task. There is a lot of responsibility on the actor’s shoulders too. The kind of hours and hard work we put in the show, maybe we could have made 20 films in that much time! Whenever I get into something, I get into it with full spirit and never think about ratings. So yes, it was an experiment and I am glad I was a part of the show.
 
 
 
 In India, most people have a fixed idea about what a TV show should be like and therefore, with Haasil, we wanted to raise the banter for the audience, but in the bargain we realised that it is difficult to change the audience. People in India, especially those in small towns, need to be open-minded when they are watching a TV show. The urban audience may have liked the show, but the small-town audience is still fixated on saas-bahu dramas. Also, the industry is fixated on doing something a particular way rather than trying something different. If you ask me, I don’t watch TV at all, but before getting into it, I watched a few shows just to get an idea. And despite working so hard, we have to depend on ratings. Anyways, I had a good time, they really juiced me out.
 
 
 
 Yes, because black and white roles are boring. As you mature, you want to do more challenging roles. So, I wanted to push the envelope a little higher with this one and entertain audiences.
 
 
 
 If I was making a film, I would definitely want to play Tipu Sultan, but not if it is being made into a TV show. Historical shows can never be justified on TV. My father made Tipu Sultan when there was only one channel, so there was high demand and less supply, which isn’t the case right now. Also, today, they have budgets for the first few episodes of a historical TV show, in which you see grandeur and then, the rest of the episodes are only about close-ups and mid-shots. A historical has to be grand like   and so a film canvas can justify it. Also, if an actor is doing a historical show, there is not much growth for him.
 
 
 
 Shows on TV run for five to seven years if the ratings are good. So, a particular actor will continue doing the same show for those many years. But if someone wants to move on to greener pastures, there is not much scope. Economically, it makes sense to work for the TV medium and hats off to all those actors who put in those hours. I would never want to take that respect away from them, but I am not sure of the growth. When I was working on Haasil, it felt like going back to boarding school!
 
 
 
 I did not do anything for a few years, so I did Haasil, but now, I want to move on to exploring the online space. I love to wake up every day with a smile and do anything to the best of my ability. After working so hard, my kids are telling me, ‘Hope you are not going away like this again’. So, I feel that working in TV is best suited for a bachelor – you make your money, work long hours and move on. Otherwise, it’s a tough job travelling to work for two-three hours and then getting stuck in traffic for another two hours. It is definitely not for the weak-hearted.
 
 
