A businessman had the shock of his life when his housing loan application was rejected by a nationalised bank in November 2017 for defaulting on a two-wheeler loan.

 The victim alleges that somebody bought a scooter on loan using his forged Aadhaar card and did not pay 11 outstanding instalments.
 
 The victim, Indra   Thakur (34), a resident of   in Bajaria locality, is a distributor of a co-operative milk federation. He maintains a good record of transactions in the nationalised bank where he has an account.
 
 The unidentified accused affixed his photograph on Thakur’s Aadhaar card to take a two-wheeler loan from a private finance company.
 
 Now, the victim has been running from pillar to post for past two months to get a case registered. He has reported the matter to three police stations.
 
 In November 2017, Thakur approached the bank to buy a home loan. The bank manager checked his credit score online and denied sanction of loan saying that he was a defaulter. Thakur found out that unidentified conman had bought a scooter from a showroom in Lalghati by using the forged copy of his Aadhaar card.
 
 Talking to 
 , Thakur said, “When I went to the showroom in Lalghati, the dealer started asking me to pay the remaining instalments of the loan. When I showed him the papers accessed by me he then asked me to contact the officials of L&T Finance Company’s subsidiary L&T Family Credit Limited, which deals in two-wheeler loans. Earlier, the finance company officials mounted pressure on me to repay the loan. When I showed them the papers accessed by me, they sought a settlement and offered No Objection Certificate (NOC), which I refused as I had not purchased any vehicle. I went to Koh-e-Fiza police station to file a complaint, but the cops told me to go to MP Nagar police station as the office of the company is situated there. When I went to MP Nagar police station, the cops there told me to approach Bajaria police as the Aadhaar card was issued from an address located in Bajaria locality. I then filed a complaint with Bajaria police on December 12 but no case has been registered so far.”
 
 “Now, the cops are questioning me as to how I got papers from the finance company,” Thakur said.
 
 Koh-e-Fiza SHO Anil Bajpai said the police were investigating the case. “As information is needed from various offices to investigate, it takes time to register a case”, he said. Bajaria SHO DP Singh said that he was not aware of the matter, emphasising that Koh-e-Fiza police should take action in the case as the matter falls in their jurisdiction.
 
 Talking to 
 , Siddharth Surana, the director of Surana Motors showroom, from where the two-wheeler was bought, said, “There is no negligence on our part. The finance company forwarded the case and we sold the vehicle.”
 
 The officials of L&T Finance Company denied having any information, saying that the company had stopped giving loans for purchase of two-wheelers.
 
 
