GURUGRAM: A 21-year-old woman was allegedly thrashed and robbed of her purse and mobile phone in the service lane near the Micromax Rapid Metro station in DLF 3 late last night. 

 The woman who is from Kolkata and is employed as a steward at  , Gurugram, was on her way to Lagoon Apartment, where she lives in an accommodation provided by the hotel, after her shift ended at midnight. She later filed a complaint at DLF 2 police station.
 
 “Once my shift ended at 12.15am, I left the hotel and decided to have a quick bite. Afterwards, at around 12.30am, as I was walking towards the metro station, a small white car with four boys in it, stopped and assaulted me. They snatched my golden Lenovo P2 phone with  , and hit me again when I held on to my handbag, eventually snatching it as well. It contained my ICICI ATM card, SBI ATM card, Aadhaar card and employee ID. Once I freed myself, I ran straight towards the hotel. On the road, I met my colleague, chef  , who accompanied me to the police station. I only recall part of the car’s registration number, DL 1-94,” she said in her complaint.
 
 “I am a steward in the hotel’s room service crew. Last night’s experience was scary. I was walking on the left-hand-side of the road, when I noticed the car trailing me, and shifted to the right-hand-side. When they took an U-turn and came after me, I ran. Once they caught up with me, one of them first tried to find if I have a chain around my neck. Not finding one, he snatched my purse. A passerby tried to intervene, but the assailants pulled him inside their car. That’s when I screamed and ran towards the hotel. I received injuries in my hand, neck and back,” she said.
 
 However, even though she claimed to have been thrashed mercilessly by the robbers and had injuries to show for it, and also claimed the miscreants had kidnapped a man who had come to her help, but cops at DLF 2 police station registered an FIR only under Section 379A (snatching) of IPC.
 
 Inspector Sudip Kumar, SHO, DLF2 police station, said the victim had refused their suggestion for undergoing a medical examination to determine the extent of her injuries, which is why they couldn’t add the IPC section on thrashing to the FIR. “We’re on the job. We can’t verify yet if the accused have indeed kidnapped a passerby. It appears to us that man was an aide of the accused,” said the SHO.
 
 
