BENGALURU: The last session of the 14th Karnataka legislative assembly concluded on a stormy note on Friday as the opposition   interrupted chief minister Siddaramaiah’s reply to the budget debate by shouting slogans and hurling papers.

 An undeterred   held his ground and made various allegations against the BJP by cutting short his reply to the budget. Continuing his attack on Prime Minister Narendra  , Siddaramaiah accused him of being a ‘facilitator of corruption’ and asked why he hadn’t appointed a Lokpal if he was so serious about fighting graft.
 
 Saying that he would soon make public the Kempanna Commission report (which probed alleged irregularities in denotification of land), the CM charged BJP chief ministerial candidate B S Yeddyurappa with having been indicted in the report and he (CM) having received a clean chit.
 
 Earlier, trouble began after senior   member K N Rajanna accused Modi of being responsible for the Punjab National Bank scam involving jewellery designer Nirav Modi, during Siddaramaiah’s budget reply. He also argued that BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra had restricted their loan waiver schemes to small and marginal farmers, while Congress-ruled Karnataka had waived loans of all categories of farmers.
 
 This angered BJP members who thronged the well of the House and surrounded the podium of speaker KB Koliwad, demanding that the ruling party members be restrained from politicking and focus on the budget instead. However, Rajanna refused to budge, triggering commotion.
 
 BJP members, including senior leader S Suresh Kumar, shouted slogans against the government, calling it a ‘goondagiri (hooliganism) government’. “Earlier, the Congress was indulging in goondagiri outside; now it has started it in the house,” alleged some members.
 
 Deputy speaker N H Shivashankara Reddy adjourned the assembly for 10 minutes. As soon as the house met after the break, BJP members stuck to their guns and continued to raise slogans. They didn’t yield to the appeals of Siddaramaiah and Koliwad to resume their seats.
 
 The house reverberated with the slogans against the government over issues like law and order, corruption and illegal denotification. BJP members tore apart copies of the questions to be answered and threw them in the house. After the CM ended his reply, Koliwad passed the finance Bill for the year 2018-19 and adjourned the house sine die.
 
 Scene at council
 
 At the council, Siddaramaiah saw a different approach from the BJP, with the saffron party legislators walking out of the house and the government pushing no less than seven legislations in less than 30 minutes. All the seven were those which were passed by the assembly. 
 
 The BJP claimed they were not given an opportunity to discuss the budget, and that it was for the first time that the upper house didn’t even debate the state of finances and schemes promised in the budget.
 
 Later, glowing tributes were paid to one another by Siddaramaiah, chairman D H Shankarmurthy and JD(S) floor leader Basavaraj Horratti for their cooperation in the past five years of the session. Principal opposition floor leader K S Eshwarappa skipped the last day of the 14th legislature.
 
