The first edition of Hyderabad Times 15 Most Desirable Women on Television 2017 is out — and the gorgeous Varshini Sounderajan has won it. But there are others too who have made their mark on television and have made it to our list. They’re spunky; they’re talented; they’re sexy. Most of all, they keep you entertained day in and day out. Here’s to the hotties who have made it to the first edition of Hyderabad Times 15 Most Desirable Women on Television 2017.

  bhimeneni
 Claim to fame: As the host of comedy show Pove Pora, Vishnu Priya has proven that women can be pretty and witty at the same time. Having won hearts as the funny chica who has everyone laughing till their sides hurt, Vishnu priya, who is also also part of shows like Cash and Anubhavinchu Raja, has emerged as the most sought after television anchors
 Relationship status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: She’s that girl-next-door who’s the perfect mix of nice and naughty. And who doesn’t love a girl who can make you laugh?! 
 
  
  
 Meghana Lokesh
 Claim to fame: 
 After impressing everyone with her versatility in the popular soap Sasirekha Parinayam, this young actress conquered prime time Telugu television by playing a double role in the hit soap opera Kalyana Vaibhogame. 
 Relationship status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Meghana’s USP is that she’s won hearts of both the young and the old. So, while she can be the quintessential Telugu ‘kodalu’ in her on-screen roles, once off it, she’s this PYT with a quirky sense of style and a massive social media fan following. 
 
  
  
 Krutika Singh Rathore
 Claim to fame: Model, actor and blogger, Krutika Singh Rathore first shot into limelight with the Telugu serial Ok Jaanu, which made her a household name. Apart from her work in television, Krutika is also quite the rage on Instagram with her posts on fashion, 
 food and more. 
 Relationship status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: dreamy doe eyes, luscious Rapunzel-esque locks, endless legs and an impish smile — she’s quite the fairlytale princess. But once in front of the camera she can transform into anything — sexy siren or demure damsel, you pick! 
 
  
  
 
 Claim to fame: Telugu
 television’s original pin-up girl, Rashmi has an enviable list of primetime shows to her name, including Jabardasth and Anubhavinchu Raja. She pushed the envelope further with her bold role in Guntur Talkies. 
 Relationship status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Leggy, curvy, feisty, Rashmi sizzles and she isn’t shy about it. Her 3 million-plus followers on social media, sigh in unison every time she posts a new picture pouting, posing or simply being herself.
 
  
  
  Bharadwaj
 Claim to fame: The darling of the small screen, Anasuya needs no introduction. Her shows like Jabardasth, Blockbuster and Jackpot 2, have been huge hits and have even catapulted her into Tollywood. Anasuya’s performance in the recent Ram Charan-starrer Rangasthalam was highly appreciated 
 Relationship status: Married
 Desirability Quotient: This yummy mummy has oodles of sex appeal and she ain’t afraid to flaunt it. With plenty of curves and a smile to kill, she’s made TV sexy with her strappy blouses and racy sarees. 
 
  
  
 SreeMukhi
 Claim to fame: The Telangana ammayi who started her career with the show Adhurs, has gone on to become one of the most loved TV hosts. Sreemukhi’s talk show Pataas, full off double-entendre, has been a path-breaker of sorts. With over 3.4 million Facebook followers, she’s a social media sensation as well! 
 Relationship status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Cute, bubbly and full of chutzpah, Sreemukhi can walk into a gathering of thousands and own the place! 
 
  
  
 Lakshmi Manchu
 Claim to fame: The undisputed talk show queen of Telugu TV, Lakshmi Manchu rewrote quite a few rules and carved a niche for herself! What’s more, she glammed up TV and made it cool, all at once. 
 Relationship status: Married
 Desirability Quotient: With an edgy sense of fashion, this Telugu bidda with an American accent, is a pathbreaker in her own right. And therein lies her sex appeal. A showstopper no matter where she goes, Lakshmi is like fine wine — just keeps getting better with age! 
 
  
  
 Udaya Bhanu
 Claim to fame: The sexy siren of Telugu television, this stunner has acted in many a Telugu film, including Madhumati, and even a Kannada one. However, it is her television stint and her job as an anchor that she’s known well for!
 Relationship status: Married to Vijay Kumar
 Desirability Quotient: Even after being in the industry for more than 20 years, this mother of two seems 
 ageless.
 
  
  
 
 
 Claim to fame: The ‘America Ammayi’ of small screen, Marina is hands down one of the most popular faces on TV. What many don’t know is that she has also acted in two films — one each in Hindi and Telugu — gaining fame as ‘NRI Samantha’ on the show. 
 Relationship status: Happily married to Rohit Sahni
 Desirability Quotient: They call her the Nazriya Nazim doppleganger; but this Goan beauty with her dusky skin and doe eyes is a stunner in her own right.
 
  
  
 Navya Swamy
 Claim to fame: The sweetheart of the Telugu, Tamil and Kannada television industries, Navya shot to fame as the protagonist in ‘Naa Peru Meenakshi’. She began her career as an anchor at just 15, before foraying into acting. Navya’s dream job is to play a negative character someday.
 Relationship status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: With her big eyes, beautiful smile and striking face, Navya is a classic South Indian beauty. 
 
  
  
 Devi Nagavalli
 Claim to fame: One of the most popular Telugu news presenters, Devi Nagavalli is not afraid to speak her mind, even if her views might be 
 unpopular. A two-time Nandi award winner, Devi is a beauty with brains.
 Relationship status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: Don’t be fooled by her happy curls and cherubic smile. Devi usually catches people off-guard when she proves to be more bite than bark.
 
  
  
 Purnima
 Claim to fame: As a news anchor of popular news shows for the past eight years, she has impressed the audience with her versatility and ability to connect with the viewers. Apart from news presentation, Purnima is also know for her reporting skills and hosting celebrity shows.
 Relationship status: Married
 Desirability Quotient: That angelic face and disarming smile notwithstanding, she proves she means business everytime she goes on air!
 
  
  
 Neha Chowdary
 Claim to fame: model, actor, dancer, yoga trainer, VJ and gymnast — Neha is an all-rounder in the true sense of the word. Winner of the ‘best VJ award’ in 2017, Neha is TV’s much-loved ‘Super Girl’
 Relationship status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: She rides big bikes, she does side splits, she runs races and gets her hands dirty while defeating opponents in obstacle runs. This girl can seriously kick some ass!
 
  
  
 Sunandha Mala Setti
 Claim to fame: Known across the Telugu states as Neelambari from Mudda Mandaram, Sunandha is a name to reckon with. What many don’t know is that she once even acted in a film called 4G. She made news recently for winning of the show Maharani.
 Relationship status: Single
 Desirability Quotient: they say bad boys are hot, but this Vizag girl proved that bad girls are hotter still with her mean vamp act in soap operas. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
