Udhagamandalam: The   (HSCT), an   comprising Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) lovers, has condemned the Southern Railway for removing a steel overhead water tank situated inside the   campus to construct a training centre for the railway staff.

 “The structure was around 100 years old. It served the Swiss locos when there was a loco shed in Ooty station long ago. Due to its heritage value, the structure should be refurbished and saved for posterity,” HSCT managing trustee K   said.
 
 According to the NGO officials, NMR is a heritage site recognised by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) and elimination of any object from the heritage site is not allowed. “There was a water column connected to the tank. When it was dismantled a decade ago, HSCT, in the interest of NMR section, reinstalled it near the track and it is in working condition now,” Natarajan told TOI.
 
 Asked whether the tank could be removed from the heritage site, Subrata Nath, executive director, heritage, railway board, said, “Ooty station is an operational railway. For operational reasons, structures could be removed or added. But, if the said structure is found in the inventory list of heritage, then it should be preserved even if it is 50 years old. The Salem division has to look into the matter.”
 
 Divisional railway manager of the   division Hari Shankar Verma said, “The steel overhead tank was not a heritage structure. It was badly rusted and unserviceable. It could fall due to heavy wind. We removed it considering the risk. Also, we don’t need the water tank anymore.”
 
 A letter from the railway senior section engineer, Coonoor, addressed to the DRM, stated that the tank was built in 1962. Heavy corrosion was noticed at the bottom stanchion and also inside. It was removed as it was unsafe.
 
 The whole Ooty Railway Station does not have the heritage tag, Verma said. “Only the track, locos and the building are heritage.”
 
 However, Natarajan said, “NMR enthusiasts will stage a hunger strike in front of the Ooty Railway Station if the railways don’t refurbish and install the old structure for posterity. We will prove it is 100 years old.”
 
 
