NEW DELHI: Lakhvinder Kaur was only 19, pregnant with her second child, and was at home with her five-month-old daughter when the news of a mob killing her husband came. He was at a gurdwara in Pul Bangash when the attackers got him. Kaur is now 50 and a grandmother. But justice eludes her still. 

 On a day the   decided to set up an   to re-examine 186   related to the 1984  , Kaur and others like her found it difficult to feel hopeful. SC has opened a door, but for these women, denied justice for so long, hope would be real only if the culprits are punished. 
 
 “Efforts have been made and assurances for justice have been made, but we are still waiting. Let’s see what happens,” Kaur said, adding that her grandchildren ask her about grandfather’s case. 
 
 She insists that everyone saw who the killers were and yet for decades the widows, mothers and children have been running from courts to different investigation committees for justice. 
 
 Kaur used to live in   when the riots happened. Later, like other victim families, she got a house in Tilak Vihar and a government job. At 50, she is still working as a peon while her daughters are married. The family wants the culprits to be punished severely. 
 
 Nirpreet Kaur was 16 when on November 1, 1984, her father was killed. “If you ask me, the SC decision does not give me any hope. We have seen SITs, commitments for free and fair investigation and repeated assertions for support ultimately end in no result,” she said. 
 
 She was a Palam resident and her father was an influential member of the Sikh community in the locality and ran a transport business. Nirpreet was the eldest of three children. After her father was killed, she became a crusader for justice. Over the last three decades, she has been to courts and investigation agencies to give her version, repeat names of the accused, and demand justice. She runs a small business in Chandigarh where she is married and her younger brothers live in Delhi. Together they are all fighting for justice. Much of their time has gone in courts, so they are now in a ‘wait and watch’ mode. 
 
 The stories of families who lost suffered during the riots are marked by intense pain and anger. Last November, TOI had reported how women had searched for the names of their relatives among 3,000 names listed on the ‘Wall of Truth’ at Gurdwara Rakabganj near the Parliament. 
 
 This monument was last year dedicated by Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee to those who were killed in the riots or died trying to save the lives and honour of others. The memorial carries names of people killed in different states. There is also a wall dedicated to people from other communities who lost lives and property while saving their Sikh neighbours. Another wall is dedicated to those who died but were never identified. 
 
 
