 : The surge in incidents of tigers straying out of   and attacking or killing people has created a fear psychosis in the villages adjoining the forest area. The impact is such that now even mango growers and orchard owners are facing problems as contractors are shying away from bidding for the fruit this season.
 
  Though no tiger attacks have been reported in an orchard, the contractors and their workers who have to camp there through the season are reluctant to do so fearing for their lives. The growers say they may be forced to sell their produce at lower prices than the previous years. Under the circumstances, they have decided to demand compensation from the forest department and state government for the losses they expect to incur.
  
  According to district horticulture inspector  , mango orchards span around 4,000 hectares with per hectare average productivity pegged at 14 to 14.5 metric tons. “The mango crop is quite healthy this year and the branches of trees are laden with fruits. If the weather conditions remain conducive, the production may go up by at least 10 percent than last year’s output,” said Singh.
  
  Explaining the problem, mango contractor  , a resident of village Daulatput under Amaria block, said the orchards in Pilibhit are located amid wheat, paddy and sugarcane fields. These provide an ideal camouflage for tigers to hide in. Therefore, attacks by big cats is not uncommon.
  
  Since 2016, as many as 24 people have lost their lives to tiger attacks in and around PTR. Since January this year, three people have been killed. In this period, several people have been injured in attacks. The maximum killings have taken place in and around Mala range of PTR.
  
  Two woman, Savitri Devi and Zeenat Bi, of Noorpur village were attacked by a tiger on March 18 barely 250 metres from an orchard in Amaria block owned by Iftekhar Ali Khan. He said he is yet to find a mango contractor to buy his produce this year. Five tigers have made this agricultural belt their home.
  
  Another orchard owner  , whose 24-acre orchard is situated in proximity to Mala forest range, said, “As the number of incidents of stray tigers mauling villagers has risen in this area over the last few months, I have been offered the highest bid for my crop to the tune of just Rs 11 lakh as against Rs 23 lakh last year because no one is willing to buy the crop due to fear of tigers.”
  
  In view of the heavy cost of inputs, Bindra said, “My earning this season will not be enough to meet next year’s investments.”
  
  He asserted that he would claim compensation against his losses from the forest department and state government. “If the needful is not done in the matter from either side, I will move court,” he added.
