SHIMLA: The Himachal Cabinet led by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday pulled up DGP S R Mardi over deterioration in law and order after Shimla divisional commissioner's inquiry report indicted police and local administration for murders of assistant town planner Shail Bala and PWD employee Gulab Singh during the Kasauli demolition drive on May 1. 

  
  Narayani Guest House owner had shot government official Shail Bala
 
 The Thakur government also suspended five officials, including then Solan SP Mohit Chawla with immediate effect on Thursday. The then Parwanoo SDPO Ramesh Sharma, Kasauli naib tehsildar Jagpal Singh, Dharampur SHO Madan Singh and Kasauli SHO Dalip Singh are among others who have been suspended. Action against Chawla has been initiated under the All-India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969.
 
 On recommendation of the inquiry report, the HP government has initiated disciplinary action against 14 police and administration officers for negligent, unprofessional and unconcerned attitude while discharging duties during the Kasauli demolition drive.
 
 The Thakur cabinet discussed the inquiry report and the current law and order situation in the state. 
 
 
 
 The Cabinet summoned DGP Mardi and expressed its displeasure over the police's failure to maintain law and order. Mardi was given strict instructions to improve law and order in an efficient manner, according to sources. 
 
 Himachal will also initiate disciplinary action against nine more officials under CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, and action will be taken accordingly. 
 
 Head constable Nagender from Sairy police post, honorary head constable Hem Raj from Darlaghat police station, constables Sanjeev and Sunil along with women constables Champa, Usha, Sharda from Dharampur police station and constables Ishwar and Narinder from Solan police station will face disciplinary action.
 
 In his 136-page report, Shimla divisional commissioner Dinesh Malhotra had pointed out lapses by the police in providing adequate security and ensuring the safety of officials carrying out Kasauli demolition drive on the directions of the Supreme Court on May 1. 
 
 It also pointed out that after opening fire at Shail Bala, accused Vijay Singh Thakur had fled from the spot and was chased by two policemen. However, despite one of the policemen carrying a weapon, Vijay managed to flee.
 
 The incident had raised serious questions about the administrative failure and lack of security provided to the team implementing the Supreme Court's directions. 
 
 
