JAIPUR: In a reshuffle that will have far-reaching implications on   politics in poll-bound Rajasthan, party president   appointed former chief minister Ashok   as   general secretary in-charge of organisation and training in place of Janardan Dwivedi on Friday. 

 Gehlot was relieved of his responsibilities in   where Congress MP Rajeev Satav has been made the new AICC in-charge of the state. Further, former Union minister Bhanwar Jitendra Singh was made AICC in-charge of Odisha, while Lalji Desai was appointed chief organiser of   in place of Mahendra Joshi. 
 
 
 
 
 The organisational reshuffle has cemented Congress state president Sachin Pilot’s position in Rajasthan, which was facing a leadership tussle between top party leaders in the run-up to assembly elections due later this year. Gehlot and Singh getting responsibilities outside Rajasthan was seen in the party circles as central leadership’s yet another move to ensure a free hand to Pilot, especially in the backdrop of recent bypoll victories here. C P Joshi, seen as another competitor for Pilot, already stood weakened because of Congress’s pathetic performance in elections under him in northeast recently and in Bihar earlier.
 
 At the Congress plenary in New Delhi early this month, Rahul Gandhi had told Congressmen to be ready for a shake-up at the top levels. Congress state leaders see the ongoing step-by-step reshuffle in the organisation as Gandhi replacing the old hats with his team of next generation leaders in the field.
 
 “Congress president is implementing what he said at the plenary session. Rajeev Satav, Jitendra Singh and Lalji Desai are all young leaders who have been appointed in place of senior leaders like Gehlot, Hariprasad and Mahendra Joshi, respectively. The message is clear - seniors will have to make way for the next generation,” said a PCC officebearer who did not wish to be named.
 
 At the same time, Gehlot camp saw its leader’s new assignment as a strengthening of his stature in the organisation. His supporters believed the senior leader would now get a say not merely in Rajasthan or Gujarat but in every other state too. The ex-CM was now better placed to influence the central leadership’s decisions, they said.
 
 Gehlot aide and party’s state vice-president Rajiv Arora said, “Gehlot’s new responsibility shows his proximity with Congress president Rahul Gandhi. This is a fantastic scenario for Rajasthan as its leader’s capabilities, which were displayed in Gujarat elections, have been recognised at the national level. With his vast experience, Gehlot will strengthen the party across India.” Speaking about the decision’s implications for the state, Arora said, “The party has already clarified that the coming elections will be contested under the joint leadership of state leaders. Gehlot will help Congress return to power in Rajasthan.”
 
 Pilot congratulated Gehlot on his new assignment. “I congratulate Gehlot on getting a new responsibility. His years of experience will help the party reap rich dividends,” Pilot told TOI. He later tweeted wishing good luck to Gehlot, Satav and Singh. Late in the night, Gehlot tweeted, “I feel truly honoured. I will perform my duty with committment and continue to work hard to strengthen the party. I am thankful to Congress president Rahulji.”
 
 
