GURUGRAM: Three  , working on the roof of a residencian building in the congested   of Sohna, suffered electrocution burns after a low-hanging high tension (HT) cable collapsed on them at around 10 am on Tuesday.

 The incident took place in the house of local resident Devender. The three victims — Girish (42) of Badayun in Uttar Pradesh, Rahul (23) of Sohna, and Islam (30) of Tohla — had been hired to build a first floor over an already existing single storey building. They were working on the roof of the first floor at the time of the accident. The congested Shiv Colony has   dangling low in a maze with cable TV wires and motley other cables over the rooftops. The incriminating cables were held up with a wooden stick used as a temporary pillar. On Tuesday morning, the   suddenly toppled and the live cables fell on the workers.
 
 All three suffered burns from contact with the live wires. Fortunately, there were no fatalities. Girish suffered the maximum burns — over 60%. Both Rahul and Islam suffered around 30% burns. They were rushed to the Sohna General Hospital, who referred them to the General Hospital in Civil Lines, Gurugram, on noticing the extent of their injuries. While Islam was admitted to the   hospital around noon, Girish and Rahul were further referred to Safdarjung Hospital. Islam’s family got him discharged at around 3pm, and said they’d prefer to get him treated near their home.
 
 “Two of the victims have been referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital, while a third patient was taken home by his family. They were electrocuted while they were at work, but couldn’t share more details due to their weak condition,” said Dr Sanjay Narula, medical officer, Gurugram. 
 
 No complaint has been filed in the matter, neither with police not with the power department.
 
 Earlier in August 2017, six children were electrocuted near Kendriya Vihar in Sector 56, when 220kV HT cables attached to an electricity pole snapped after a short circuit, and fell on children playing between two poles. As a result, during the MCG elections in September 2017, some residents had put up posters across Patel Nagar stating they would not cast their votes, till the danger posed by hanging wires was removed. 
 
 Yet, in pockets across the city, the problem prevails, with residents complaining they live a life on the edge. “These cables have been here and in this condition for as long as we can remember. There have been many short circuits here. Older cables keep snapping. It was a disaster waiting to happen. If nothing is done, they will lead to fire and cost lives one day,” said Savita Devi, a Shiv Colony resident. 
 
 
