MUMBAI: Allowing the release of four accused, found guilty of  , on  , a magistrate court reasoned that jail term was unnecessary as it was pertinent to note that admission was secured in the arts and commerce stream and not for medical or engineering seat. The maximum jail term under the convicted sections is seven years.

 The court additionally factored in the facts that that the main accused, Kurla-based Abdul Shaikh, a retired vice-principal, is now 76 while the three students— Hemal Lathewala, Akshay Dongarkery and Shwetang Rathod— were aged only 19 at the time of the forgery in 2001. Further it took into account that the accused had faced trial for 15 years and were had no criminal antecedents. The accused are now employed in various companies.
 
 
  
 
 Allowing their release under the Probation of Offenders Act, the court said, “Instead of sentencing the accused at once, they are released on probation on entering into a bond to keep the peace and be of good behaviour for the period of two years from today, and to appear and receive sentence when called upon during the above period in the event of breach of conditions of bond.”
 
 The three students had secured admission in HSC at   on forged certificates after they failed their class 11 exams at another junior college. The trio produced fake leaving certificates and mark list representing that it was issued by a junior college in Govandi. The principal of the college had registered the FIR on April 11, 2001. He alleged that on August 3, 1999, one student named   had secured admission in HSC. However, on February 17, 2000, it was found that the mark list submitted by the student was bogus. He was called in the office of the education board where he admitted his guilt and subsequently his admission was cancelled. The student, in turn, also told them that between June to July 1999, the three accused named in the case had also secured admission on the basis of forged school leaving certificate and mark sheet.
 
 Among those who deposed during the trial were the principals of the two colleges and the investigating officer. The court relied on the hand writing expert's analysis to nail the accused. "There is no manner of doubt that the leaving certificates have been forged by accused number one (Shaikh) in his own handwriting and under his own signatures and accused had taken admission in Siddharth College on the basis of those forged documents and thereby cheated and caused damage to the reputation of both colleges,” the court said.
 
