HYDERABAD: Sci-fi stories on television are loaded with blue spectrum applications. The chemiluminescence technology has helped police crack a sensational human (infant) sacrifice case in the city in a matter of a few hours.

 After questioning 45 suspects, examining 40 witnesses, analysis of 122 mobile phones, footage of 100   cameras and thousands of pages of call data records, police had reached a dead end in the severed infant head case.
 
 
 
  
 
 Nine days later, a four-andhalf hour search for clues in a room of cabbie K Rajashekar Goud’s house at  , using newly-acquired German-made Luminol and multispectral LED source, helped police find the crucial evidence, blood stains.
 
 Even after wiping the floor clean of blood by the couple and time lapse, Clues Team experts could notice blood stains and   (FSL) experts could extract DNA from the sample. Thanks to the latest technology and with equipment like Superlite MO5, the experts could find stains in blue luminescence, which is otherwise not seen with naked eye. Rachakonda police commissioner   told TOI, “With the equipment, Clues Teams experts, led by Dr Venkanna, searched every inch of the house. They found blood stains in the grooves of the flooring.”
 
 TFSL expert Dr G Pandu could extract DNA from the blood stain and match it with the severed head found on the terrace of the house.
 
 “On February 9, experts picked up the samples and sent them to FSL. On February 14, they gave three reports. In one test, they confirmed the missing baby of Kachiguda couple was not linked to the case. With the scientific evidence, we could crack the case as Rajasehkar was misguiding the investigation,” Bhagwat, who sent appreciation letters to Venkanna and Pandu, said.
 
 “A DNA-friendly chemical was sprayed on the floor and Superlite found blue luminescence on the floor indicating blood as haeme (an iron-containing compound) part of it reacts with the reagent in chemical. We were in pitch-dark room for four-and-half hours without light and fan,” a forensic expert said, adding “our effort yielded a positive result.”
 
