PATNA: The Patna high court on Wednesday ordered the Patna district administration to remove encroachments on and around the three acres of land belonging to National Institute of Technology (NIT) at Golakpur under the Pirbahore police station area within four weeks’ time at any cost.

 While hearing a PIL filed by Vikash Chandra alias Guddu Baba, the division bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice Rajeev Ranjan Prasad rapped the district administration for failing to remove the encroachments despite an earlier court order.
 
 The high court on February 2 this year had ordered the administration to remove all encroachments from the said plot of land. An anti-encroachment drive was taken up on March 16, but the magistrates and police personnel were chased away by the encroachers. Patna sadar circle officer (CO) Mithilesh Kumar and several other police personnel were injured in the attack by the encroachers on the first day the drive, which was left midway.
 
 The district administration, in a counter affidavit submitted on Wednesday, informed the court that after demolishing four to five illegal houses built on the plot, over 100 antisocial elements gathered there and sprinkled petrol and pelted the officials and police personnel with stones. An earth mover and some vehicles were badly damaged during the incident.
 
 An FIR was lodged in this connection with the Pirbahore police station by the CO against 29 named accused and several other unknown persons.
 
 “Is the state unable to deal with the law and order problem. Just 100 antisocial elements came and the administration ran way. We are not satisfied with this,” the court made an oral observation during the hearing.
 
 It also ordered the administration to take strict action against those who created hindrance on March 16 and submit a report. Chief Justice Menon also ordered the administration that any matter related to Golakpur land encroachment, if filed or surfaces before the high court, would be brought before him only for hearing.
 
 The petitioner told TOI the land was originally acquired for Bihar College of Engineering (BCE) in 1950s by the state government and a six-member committee headed by the revenue and land reforms department principal secretary Vyas Ji was formed by the high court around a couple of years ago to ascertain its ownership. It surfaced that it was acquired for BCE, which later became NIT.
 
 
