Since the beginning of school holidays in April, the Kochi Metrohasbeen witnessing heavy passenger movement between Aluva and Maharaja’s College. While a section of commuters choose the   for a joy ride, the others opt it to avoid the congested roads.

 According toKMRL,they havehad an average ridership of 36,500 per day from April 1, 2018. “Before the beginning of summer holidays, the ridership per day was between 30,000 and 32,000,” said   spokesperson. The Metro witnesses an increase in ridership during public holidays and weekends. “On May 1, which was a public holiday we recorded a ridership of 48,000 per day.”
 
 KMRL which was expecting large crowds during holidays had waived off the fee in their parking slots for two months from April 6. This offer is available in all stations except Aluva and Edappally. KMRL expects the move will make make   a more attractive and viable option for commuting in the city. Commuters will alsoconsider theoption of boarding from less utilized Metro stations, as they will get ample space to park vehicles. KMRL managing director A P M Mohammed Hanish said the waiver could attract more passengers during this holiday season and would also help to control unruly parking.
 
 KMRL said the waiver in parking feesis providedonly tothosewhotake Metro rides. Other commuters can park their vehicles in these spaces paying Rs 20 per hour for cars and Rs 10 per hour for bikes.
 
 KMRL revenue has also increased along with the ridership. “We have recorded revenue between Rs 12 lakh and Rs 13 lakh per day since April 1 as ticket fare,” said the spokesperson.
 
 The Metro agency said they have started the process of wrapping advertisements on trains. They have finalized tenders for wrapping 13 sets of trains. The tender has been awarded for an amount of Rs 2.92 crore. “Currently, we have achieved a nonticket revenue of between Rs 12 to 13 lakh per day. This will go up once we finalise tenders for renting out office space and station-naming rights,” said the spokesperson.
 
 
