KOCHI: It was not proper for the police to investigate police, the high court pointed out on Friday while considering a plea for a   probe into the custodial death of S R   at Varapuzha. 

 The observation was made by justice P Somarajan while considering a petition filed by Sreejith's wife, Akhila. The court said it was not proper for the police themselves to launch investigation against police as per a   decision.
 
 It has been alleged in the petition that a CBI probe was essential to bring out the conspiracy and the involvement of top police officers. 
 
 During Friday's hearing, Akhila's counsel argued that Sreejith died due to torture and that high-ranking police officers were involved, whereas only the involvement of low ranking police officers have been identified yet. The role of former Aluva rural superintendent must also come under probe, the counsel alleged.
 
 Further, the counsel argued that a proper investigation won't be conducted as the accused were police officers. It was a custodial death case that was fit to be referred to the CBI, the counsel submitted. Director general of prosecution informed the court that investigation was progressing in the right direction and that four policemen have already been arrested. While deciding to continue the hearing on May 4th, the court directed the CBI and state government to inform its views by then. 
 
 Meanwhile, the   has alleged before the high court that the police officers involved in the case were acting under the directions of   leaders as the deceased was a BJP worker. 
 
 BJP's petition stated: "There was a conspiracy by the rural SP, the circle inspector and other top police officers to take BJP workers into custody, where one Vasudevan committed suicide after his house came under attack. The first information statement made by Vineeth, Vasudevan's son, does not contain Sreejith's or his brother's names. The only reason for arresting and brutally attacking Sreejith was that he belonged to the BJP."
 
 The district police chief and his subordinates were acting as per the directions of the district CPM leaders," it said.
 
