MUMBAI:   has served   for irregularities in structures to   hospital (Bandra) and Kokilaben Dhirubhai   hospital (Andheri).

 Civic officials said a notice was served to Lilavati on February 7 after they found unauthorized constructions in its basement, which were in contravention of the approved building plan.
 
 The notice, accessed by TOI, was served to the hospital director for changing use of land. The hospital has been told to demolish unauthorized structures or apply to BMC’s executive engineer (building proposal department) within a month from receipt of the notice, under section 44 of Mumbai Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act, 1966, for their retention.
 
 The notice lists the unauthorized construction of the physiotherapy consulting room, OPD clinic, surgical stores, toilets, offices, pharmacy, storeroom in basement and approval for vehicle parking, which is in contravention to the plan approved on August 23, 1999.
 
 Assistant municipal commissioner (H west ward) Sharad Ughade said his staff came across the unauthorized constructions during inspection of various basements in the city. 
 
 BMC had taken up a drive across the city against irregularities in basement areas of buildings following the blaze at two eateries at Kamala Mills in which 14 people had died.
 
 Lilavati Hospital vice-president (operations) Ajay Pande did not respond to several calls and text messages. 
 
 BMC’s K west ward office served a notice to Ambani hospital as an inspection showed it did not have facilities for vermicomposting on its premises. BMC has been taking bulk generators to task for not processing waste. Over 1,000 societies across the city have been issued notices for violating occupancy certificate conditions.
 
 Assistant municipal commissioner (K west ward) Prashant Gaikwad said the notice was served around a fortnight back. “We served the notice under Section 53 (1) of MRTP Act, and if no action being taken in a month, an FIR will be filed,” he said.
 
 Dr Santosh Shetty of Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital & Medical Research Institute too did not respond to calls and messages.
 
 
