Actor, director and producer   aka JD, who visited Lucknow with actress   to promote their show  , visited his favourite hangout – the zoo! "No matter how strange it might sound to people, but wherever I go, whether in India or abroad, I make sure to visit the zoo there. I just love nature and animals. And if we visit zoos with our kids, we will bring them close to nature. I feel every parent should visit the zoo with their kids," shared JD, adding, "Even though I have been to the city earlier, I didn’t get enough time to see Lucknow. And this time, since I had some time at hand before the press conference of my show, I thought to make the most of it by visiting the  !"
And it was love at first sight for these two actors when they saw the   Zoological Garden. "I have fallen in love with Lucknow Zoo!" exclaimed Vandana, adding, "The animals are so well kept here and it is so clean. I was most excited about taking a ride in the toy train but unfortunately I was told that it was non-functional because of some technical issues. But nevertheless, I clicked several pictures of it to show it to my friends and family, especially to my children. I don’t even remember when was the last time I came to a zoo."
 Both Vandana and JD took a whole round of the Lucknow Zoo in the electric car. "I made the driver stop near the cage of the chimpanzees. I saw them after a long time. I was told that their names were Nikita and  . I was amazed to see how they were responding to their names and even came to us when we called for them,” said Vandana, adding, “However, the one thing that completely surprised me was that even though it was a weekday and it was really hot,   had come in large numbers to the Zoo, which, I think is a rare sight at other zoos. I wonder weekends pe kya haal hota hoga Lucknow Zoo mein."
 Recalling her last trip to Lucknow, Vandana shared, "While this time I don’t have much time to do what I love doing the most in Lucknow – shopping, last time jab hum yahan aaye thay, some 6-7 years back, I had a blast! I shopped for a lot of chikan from here and also went to old Lucknow with my Khichdi team.The best part was that people in Lucknow gave us a very warm welcome. They knew who we were and we didn’t need to introduce ourselves, and they called us by our screen name. This time also, when we were at the Lucknow Zoo, people came up to us and called us by our screen name, which shows that they used to watch Khichdi with interest."
 
 
  
  JD and Vandana with Range Forest Officer   taking a round of the Lucknow Zoo (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 
 
  
 
