CHENNAI: Chief minister   once again accused the   of supporting Sterlite. DMK allies   and IUML as well as T T   wanted the government to speak to DMK MLAs and call them back to the assembly. 

 After walking out of the assembly on Tuesday and participating in the   convened by the DMK, seven Congress MLAs (Congress legislature party leader K Ramaswamy was absent) and lone IUML MLA Muhammad Abubacker returned to the assembly and participated in the energy and excise departments’ debate for grants. 
 
 Vilavancode Congress MLA S Vijayadharani, Abubacker and Dhinkaran asked the government to recall the DMK MLAs. All the opposition party leaders said that in a democracy, presence of the main opposition is a must. “The present AIADMK government must recall what former chief minister M G Ramachandran did when DMK president M Karunanidhi and others walked out of the assembly,” said Abubacker. But the government was in no mood to listen and instead the chief minister made new accusations against the DMK on the Sterlite issue. Reading from a 2010 reply by   in the assembly as industries minister, the chief minister said it was only the DMK government which allocated land for Sterlite’s expansion. Immediately Abubacker retorted that when the DMK MLAs were not in the assembly, it was not correct to speak against them. This angered the chief minister. 
 
 “We did not ask the DMK MLAs to boycott the assembly. I am only reading from what Stalin had said. Is it not true that 230 acres were allocated to Sterlite by the DMK? When an assembly session is on what is the need for mock assembly. It shows that they are afraid to face the truth on Sterlite in the assembly,” said Palaniswami. “We are taking all steps to permanently close the factory. People know everything about Sterlite and which party gave the nod for the plant in the last few years,” said the chief minister. 
 
 Electricity and excise minister P Thangamani said DMK MLAs had boycotted seeking the resignation of the chief minister. “I can say definitely that DMK MLAs cannot return to the assembly as the chief minister will not resign at any cost,” said Thangamani. 
 
 Later in the evening, DMK working president M K Stalin in a statement reiterated that the chief minister must immediately convene a cabinet meeting and take a policy decision seeking closure of the Sterlite plant in Tuticorin if he wants his party’s MLAs to participate in the assembly debates. “The CM need not advise us on assembly work. If the government is serious about closing the factory, let it take a policy decision in the cabinet so that a permanent solution can be found. We will participate in the assembly session,” said Stalin. “We are also ready for a detailed debate on the Sterlite issue. Is the CM ready for it?” said Stalin. He said the CM has not understood that “we decided to boycott the assembly session as the government was not serious about closing the factory permanently”.
 
 
