Actress   is a popular face of Bengali television industry. The actress made her first stage appearance alongside  , one of the finest actors of Indian cinema.

 In an exclusive interview with 
 .
  , the actress candidly spoke about the memories with the veteran actor, her dream project and why she prefers her name without a surname...
 
 Subhadra, who is presently seen in the serial ‘Satyameva Jayati’, is working for more than 30 years now. She said, “My father Sri. Shanti Gopal Mukherjee was an active member of Utpal Jethu’s (Utpal Dutt) theatre group. I grew up seeing their rehearsals at our Beltala residence. One day I was watching a stage show standing near the wings of the theatre. Utpal Jethu unexpectedly asked me to hold his hands and we entered the stage. That was the first time I stepped onto the stage.” The actress immediately fell in love with acting.
 
 Subhadra’s father is an eminent actor too. He has performed in several theatrical projects of Utpal Dutta, including ‘Tiner Tolowar’ and ‘Titumir’. 
 
 Growing up in a cultural environment has always motivated the actress. She said, “I grew up in a culturally sound environment and I am thankful to my father for that. I got the opportunity to watch so many veteran actors of Bengali film and theatre so closely. Dedication towards this medium of art is what I have learnt from them. And that’s why all my projects are like babies to me.”
 
 The actress shared that she is so involved with her projects that the performance of a serial or film affects her. “I am very much attached to my projects. That’s why I can’t eat properly if my serial gets low TRPs or my film doesn’t perform well,” said the emotional actress.
 
 The actress, who won million hearts with the character ‘Bokul’ in the serial ‘Bou Kotha Kao’, made her small screen debut with ‘Mahesh’ which was telecasted on Doordarshan. She was in class V then. As a child Subhadra wasn’t accustomed to cameras although she was few theatrical projects old. "I was told it was a stage show too. The only difference was that the viewers can see me from the upper level of the studio," chuckles Subhadra sharing her fond memories.
 
 Talking about her current project ‘Satyameva Jayati’, the actress shared that she is thrilled to do a comedy serial, where she is playing the role of a doting mother-in-law. Her character Shantipriya is a constable, posted in the same police station where her daughter-in-law works as a police Inspector. Subhadra said, “I am playing the role of a mother. But it’s different from my previous roles. My character is one of the two female protagonists. I am excited to play the role of a mother who is no less than a heroine.” Actress Rupsha Chatterjee is playing the role of Inspector Jayati.
 
 The busy actress is successfully managing serials and film. She said, “I am fortunate to work with many well-known actors of small screen, television, theatre and elocutionists too. But I regret not getting an opportunity to work with Tripti Mitra. But I definitely wish to work with Shaoli Mitra.” The actress also revealed her wish to do theatre once again.
 
 When asked about the reason behind using her name without surname, the bubbly actress said, “Subhadra means good girl. And a good girl doesn’t need a surname!”
 
