WASHINGTON: President Donald   is preparing to expel dozens of Russian diplomats from the   in response to the nerve-agent poisoning of a former Russian spy in the United Kingdom, two people familiar with the matter said on Saturday.

 
 Trump agreed with the recommendation of advisers and the expulsions are likely to be announced on Monday, the people said, though they cautioned that Trump’s decision may not be final. Trump is prepared to act but wants to be sure European allies will take similar steps against Russia before doing so, aides said.
 
 The advisers reached recommendations for a US response to the UK attack at a National Security Council meeting on Wednesday and honed the proposals on Friday. Trump discussed the issue on Friday with US ambassador to Russia Jon Huntsman, treasury secretary Steven Mnuchin, commerce secretary Wilbur Ross, attorney general Jeff Sessions, defense secretary James Mattis, director of National Intelligence Dan Coats, outgoing National Security Adviser H R McMaster and others, two people said.
 
 All of the people familiar with the discussions asked not to be identified. White House spokespeople declined to comment. Deputy White House press secretary Raj Shah said on Saturday, “The US stands firmly with the UK in condemning Russia’s outrageous action. The president is always considering options to hold Russia accountable in response to its malign activities. We have no announcements at this time.”
 
 If Trump wants European allies to act in concert, he might get his wish, with several European Union countries saying on Friday that they may follow Britain in expelling Russian diplomats.
 
 At a summit in Brussels, 28 EU leaders agreed with Britain that it is “highly likely” Russia is responsible for the March 4 attack on Sergei Skripal and his daughter, Yulia. They remain unconscious in critical condition.
 
 The EU has recalled its ambassador from Moscow for consultations over an incident it called “a grave challenge to our shared security”.
 
 French President Emmanuel Macron said the nerveagent attack was an attack on Europe’s sovereignty that required a “coordinated and determined response”.
 
 Tusk called the bloc’s response “unprecedented”, saying “more steps are expected at a national level” starting Monday. “I am especially pleased that despite tough Brexit talks, EU has demonstrated unanimous and unequivocal unity with the UK in the face of this attack,” Tusk said.
 
 The strong solidarity from the EU — which Britain is due to leave next year — is a victory for British PM May’s efforts to muster international condemnation of a chemical weapons attack on British soil.
 
 Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel both said the evidence presented by May was persuasive — comments echoed by Lithuanian President Dalia Grybauskaite.
 
 As for Moscow, the RIA news agency on Saturday cited the Kremlin as saying that it is uncomfortable about European states’ stance over the poisoning. “It’s a big discomfort for us to have unpredictable and aggressive counterparts,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said.
 
 The UK and Russia have expelled 23 of each other’s diplomats since the attack, which has sparked a diplomatic crisis reminiscent of the Cold War. The UK says the expelled Russians, who left London this week, were undeclared intelligence agents.
 
