Living the age old phrase '  in  ',  , Gurgaon recently hosted a whole week dedicated to different cultures and their learning.Names as ‘World Cultures Week', it had students from class one to five participating in the week-long celebrations. Several activities were organized during the week where children learned new things about different cultures across the world. From food habits and the way of living to culture and traditions, students shared experiences and in the process learned about different cultures.

  
  Parents of class four presenting a Brazilian dance
 
 The week-long celebrations started on Wednesday and saw participation from the parents as well. Parents presented various dances from different countries. Mothers of class one to five participated along with their children.
 Prior to the world culture week, students were introduced to the task of researching about cultures around the globe. Five groups consisting seven members each were formed to research about any culture of their choice from the pool of cultures present in the world. The groups studied about cultures of Sri Lanka, Thailand,  , Brazil, and  .
 
  
  Parents presenting culture and dance of Spain
 
 The findings of the research were presented in a very eloquent manner through different activities which incorporated presentations, posters, animated presentations, traditional dances, among other things. Parents performed traditional dances of the respective regions, portraying the culture of the country chosen by their group. Groups presented the facts about their chosen culture through presentations and artifacts.
 
  
  Mothers presenting the dance and culture of Switzerland
 
 
 “It was a wonderful experience to get acquainted with myriad cultures and their customs and traditions. Such activities play an instrumental role in enabling our wards’ all-round development besides developing the spirit of tolerance towards various cultures,” said Smriti Kaul, a parent who participated in the Culture Week.
 
 “I thoroughly enjoyed researching about various cultures and gaining knowledge about their customs,” said Sunnoske Maitobe, a student of the school.
 
 
