BHUBANESWAR: Alarmed by a  , the   (CB) has decided to sensitize internet users to remain cautious against   The CB is expected to issue a public advisory, containing dos and don'ts, for tech-savvy and gullible internet users. 

 "We will publish leaflets in Odia, briefing the common modus operandi of con men. General public needs to be sensitized against e-frauds," a CB officer said. 
 
 Official sources said the CB has identified at least 25 subjects to sensitize people against cybercrime. The subjects include ATM fraud, telephone calls from imposters asking for bank details, fraudulent withdrawal of money from account, fraudulent e-shopping through credit and debit cards, online lottery schemes, dubious e-job portals among others and misuse of social media. 
 
 Cases relating to cybercrime have shot up in the state. At least 669 cybercrime cases were registered till October 2017 as against total number of 378 such cases reported in 2016. Police sources said nearly 60% of cybercrime-related complaints fell in the category of banking frauds. Cheating committed after collecting debit or credit card details over phone has emerged as a major concern for police. They said the fraudsters make such calls during morning hours as most of the people tend to sleep and the caller takes the advantage of the semi-conscious state of mind of people. 
 
 Director general of police R P Sharma said investigating officers in police stations are being trained at regular intervals on skills to investigate cyber offences. "We have strictly asked police stations not to suppress such complaints. Police stations must register cases and investigate by taking the assistance of the cyber cell of the CB," Sharma said. 
 
 Victims said the police never showed seriousness to crack banking fraud cases. "Even though police received my complaint, they so far made little headway. Police never attempted to track some mysterious mobile numbers used by the con men to cheat me," said Soni Mohapatra of Nayapalli. She lost Rs 17,000 after falling in the trap of a fake online shopping firm. 
 
 The DGP admitted cybercrime has emerged as a major challenge before the police due to easy access to internet. Instances of objectionable videos of girls going viral on social media left the police on their toes. While only 40 such cases were reported in 2016, it went up to 93 in 2017 (till end of September). According to the data, total 93 persons were arrested last year (till September) for allegedly posting vulgar videos of girls on social networking sites. On November 21 last year, DGP Sharma issued a standard operating procedure to the SPs, highlighting method of investigation and relevant sections of law to deal with the culprits. 
 
 
