NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has lost the right to be in power, said   chief Ajay Maken on Friday while demanding his resignation for “corruption”. 

 Maken was reacting to the ‘office-of-profit’ case and said his party would start a campaign from Delhi secretariat to demand Kejriwal’s resignation from Monday. 
 
 “Many   ministers have been removed on charges of corruption, and the 20 MLAs were given facilities equivalent to ministers. If this was not corruption, then what was it? Despite corruption charges, Kejriwal has not resigned on moral grounds. If an iota of morality is left in him, Kejriwal should immediately resign,” Maken said at a press conference.
 
 At the forefront of pursuing this particular case, Maken had submitted a petition to the chief election commissioner in June 2016, seeking the disqualification of 21 AAP legislators. “The Delhi CM is allowed to appoint one   attached to his office as per rule, but the AAP government appointed 21 parliamentary secretaries, thus attaching three parliamentary secretaries to each minister,” he said.
 
 Over a week ago, Maken had called on chief election commissioner   and urged him to disqualify the MLAs at the earliest. 
 
 When asked to comment on the fact that he himself was a parliamentary secretary of former chief minister Sheila Dikshit, Maken said his appointment wasn’t illegal. He countered AAP’s justification for appointing 21 parliamentary secretaries saying that there were administrative orders that reflect that as parliamentary secretaries, the 21 AAP MLAs were getting facilities equivalent to ministers. These included office vehicles, staff, office space and other facilities. Maken said this was a clear-cut case of office of profit. 
 
 In the wake of EC’s recommendation to the President for disqualification, Delhi Congress has sniffed the possibility of making an entry in the Delhi assembly where it has zero representation as of now. 
 
 On Friday, Maken held a meeting with party functionaries from the 20 assembly constituencies where AAP MLAs are facing the threat of disqualification. He asked them to start preparations for a by-election. From January 27, Congress would take its campaign “to expose the corruption of AAP government” to different assembly constituencies where political rallies would also be organised. 
 
 Maken also rubbished the claims of AAP that its legislators were not given any chance to present their cases before the EC. “The   gave enough time to these MLAs to explain their position on the issue, and hearing on the matter went on for nearly two years,” the DPCC chief said. 
 
 
