GHAZIABAD: A deadline of October 2019 has been set for the construction of the Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan— UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s pet project—the construction for which started in Indirapuram earlier this month . 

 The bhawan is meant to provide lodging and other facilities to Kailash Mansarovar and Kanwar pilgrims and its foundation stone had been laid by Adityanath in August last year. The five-storied building is being constructed on 9,000 sqm land in Shakti Khand 4 by a local private firm, which was given the contract for the work on April 27 , 2018.
 
 
  
 The total built-up area of the building, which will have five floors apart from a basement parking facility, is 14,500sqm. 
 
 The building will have a dining hall, a yoga hall and a meditation centre apart from a number of double-seater and four-seater rooms. It can accommodate a maximum number of 280 people at a time. Designed by the UP Rajkiya Nirman Nigam, the construction of the project is being closely monitored from Lucknow by the department of religious affairs.
 
  “At present, we are carrying out excavation work on the plot for the building’s foundation and for setting up a ready-mix concrete plant. The private contractor has been given 18 months to complete the project. So far, the government has released Rs 17 crore after the project was approved by the cabinet,” said a senior official of the Nirman Nigam.
 
 The total cost of the project has been pegged at around Rs 58 crore, which will be released in phases. The funds will also be used for the construction of allied services, such as a power substation and an effluent treatment plant for which the Nirman Nigam has already procured a no-objection certificate from the UP pollution control board.
 
 The Mansarovar Bhawan was initially planned to be constructed in Arthala, on the lines of the   that had been inaugurated by former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav in August 2016. 
 
 However, two days before Adityanath was scheduled to lay the foundation stone for the project in Arthala, the site had to be changed following objections from environmentalists over a portion of a water body being allocated for the building.
 
 
