CHENNAI: New investments into Tamil Nadu nosedived to Rs 1,574 crore in 2017, from Rs 4,793 crore that the state received in 2016, according to data released by the department of   and promotion (DIPP), part of the Union commerce ministry.

 
  
  
 
 The state had signed 62 memorandums with various companies to facilitate investments to the tune of Rs 3,131 crore in 2017, but in reality it could convert only about 50% of the promised amount into actual investments. Interestingly, only nine firms invested in the state during the whole year. 
 
 Among the major states, investments attracted by Tamil Nadu was the lowest. Maharashtra,  , Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh were ahead of Tamil Nadu, which remained the only major state to see a dip in new investments in 2017, compared to the previous year.
 
 In 2016, Tamil Nadu was able to convert 20 memorandums into actual investments worth Rs 4,793 crore. The data covers only non-MSME category of industries. Maharashtra topped the states in wooing investors, by attracting investments to the tune of Rs 18,993crore last year. It was followed by Madhya Pradesh with Rs 11,715 crore, while Karnataka got investments worth Rs 2,455 crore.
 
 Industrialists in Tamil Nadu feel that the state government, due to political instability, lost much time during the past year in damage control exercise. “Since the government introduced the ease of doing business Act in September last year, things are looking up,” said an industrialist. “But it will take more time to attract investment,” he added.
 
  is bullish about the state. “The single window scheme should solve all the problems faced by industrialists in the state. Within 30 days, the industry department is promising all approvals for setting up units in the state,” said Chennai CII president M Ponnusami.
 
 Across the country, the investment mood is low and not many MoUs are actually converted into investments, said   general secretary  . 
 
 “Karnataka has been successful in wooing more investments followed by Telangana, Maharashtra, Gujarat etc. Even There is a stiff competition between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in wooing investors to their states. Tamil Nadu has fallen out with the investors due to a weak state government,” said Rawat. 
 
 Tamil Nadu has failed to attract the best of the investments despite having all facilities like port, rail connections and roads, he said.
 
 
