Moodbidri: P B Acharya, governor of Nagaland, called upon like-minded people to come forward to promote India’s culture as the governments alone cannot do it.

 Inaugurating the 24th edition of Alva’s Virasat, a cultural fest, organized by the Alva’s Education Foundation here on Friday, Acharya said institutions such as Alva’s Institutions have taken the lead in propagating Indian culture through such events. Alva’s Virasat is a forum that brings best of talent on a common stage and thereby help in fostering the culture for the future generation, while reminding the generation of their cultural heritage.
 
 Acharya rued that that most of the educational institutions in India have been churning out unemployable graduates. This is a criminal act, he said, adding that this is the very reason why the Union government is giving accent on making skill development a part of the regular education so that students of conventional degree courses do not feel left out.
 
 India has to cash in on its demographic dividend of having a youthful population compared to the rest of the world, and the youths with skills will only add to the India’s potential of being manpower to the world, he added. 
 
 Later, Acharya accompanied by D Veerendra Heggade, dharmadhikari, Dharmashtala and Dr M Mohan Alva, chairman, Alva’s Education Foundation, conferred the Alva’s Virasat Award on Rajan and Sajan Mishra. Rajan Mishra expressing his gratitude to the foundation for considering them for the award said as an artist, he speaks the language of love that is music. “We performed here 18years ago and hope to perform at Virasat next year,” he said.
 
 In his presidential remarks, Heggade said the foundation has created the base for a generation of cultural lovers with Virasat. Reflecting on the growth of Virasat over the past 23years, Heggade said the foundation with its activities in the field of culture and education has created a mini India and this will help in building a strong integrated nation. He exhorted students at the institution to make use of the opportunities that come their way and grow socially and culturally.
 
 
