PUNE: Two persons riding on a bike on the wrong side of the road crashed into the motorcycle of a teenager on Saturday night near   bungalow, opposite Yerawada police station, and thrashed him with their two accomplices when he demanded compensation for the damage caused to the two-wheeler.

 Jai Tanaji Bharkhumbe (18) got his right hand fractured and broke his tooth in the incident around 10.30pm. He registered a complaint against one of the motorbike riders,  , after he was discharged from a hospital on Sunday. The identity of the three other assailants of Jai, a Standard XII student, is yet to be ascertained.
 
 Tanaji, the father of Jai, told TOI, “Jai and his cousin, Atish Londhe, had a burger at a food joint near the Yerawada post office around 9.30pm. Jai borrowed Londhe’s motorcycle because he forgot his wallet at home. After he took a left turn from the Shastrinagar Chowk on the way home and passing via Wadia bungalow, the two persons riding on a bike in full speed came from the wrong side and crashed into his vehicle. The trio fell off the vehicles.”
 
 He said, “My son got up and saw the handle of the bike twisted. When he demanded compensation from the duo, they abused him and refused to compensate the loss. They then attacked Jai. Two other men on another bike joined the duo in beating him up. Jai lost his tooth.”
 
 Tanaji said, “One of the suspects pulled out a sickle and tried to attack him on his head. Jai took the blow on his right hand. It got fractured and he received stitches. The suspects then sped away but Jai heard the name of one of his assailants as Vijay. He made around 20 phone calls to me, but I missed them because I was sleeping.”
 
 He said, “A passer-by turned out to be a friend of Jai. He took Jai to the police station. From there, he admitted Jai to Sassoon General Hospital. We came to know about the accident from his friend and a subsequent call from a policeman.”
 
 Jai told TOI, “Four men on two bikes were coming from the wrong side. One vehicle crashed into my vehicle. They brutally thrashed me and one of them attacked me with a sharp weapon.”
 
 Investigating officer Sunil Jadhav of the Yerawada police said, “There are no CCTVs at the spot and the injured could not jot down the registration numbers of the suspects’ vehicles. We had detained two men on suspicion, but Jai could not identify them. We are conducting technical investigations.” 
 
 
