CHENNAI:   officials were making an important visit to inspect newly-constructed   tenements in   on Thursday. The authorities thought they had everything covered, ensuring in the run-up that corporation workers diligently collected garbage twice a day and that the buildings in the complex looked — well, as new as they were.

 
 The authorities had on May 2 apprised beneficiaries of the the World Bank-supported project — executed by the   ( ) and commissioned by the government in February — of the impending inspection. They pulled off a good enough job to pleasantly surprise residents with suddenly spanking clean surroundings.
 
 “It has been a lot cleaner than usual for the past few days,” said Bharathi, a resident. “The corporation’s trucks come twice a day to clear the bins, once early in the morning and then again in evening.”
 
 If the corporation’s had made efforts to pull wool over anybody’s eyes, it all began to unspool when the five visiting representatives of the global financial institution, which funds infrastructure projects such as the tenements in Vyasarpadi, interacted with residents and asked them about the living conditions.
 
 “Has your life changed after moving here? Is the rent affordable? Are the services up to the mark?” one World Bank official wanted to know.
 
 “There is no space in the bathroom,” a woman washing clothes in her living room replied, pointing to a dingy toilet. A TNSCB official stepped in and tried to explain that residents were not washing clothes on their balconies like the board expected them to. More yarn unspooled as the officials stepped behind the tenements and between makeshift shacks of corrugated aluminum, and found waste, garbage and heaps of discarded trash.
 
 But TNSCB and the corporation appeared to have done enough to impress the World Bank officials.
 
 “This project is remarkable as the government has made a big investment to provide affordable housing to low-income groups,” a World Bank official told TOI. “We are trying to study how the government has taken steps to help people from these groups. This will help us think up solutions for more people across the state.”
 
 
