NEW DELHI: “The demise of the Left will be a disaster for India.”

 
 These words were uttered not by a member of any of the Left parties. They were said by a Congressman,  , yesterday, a day after one of the two remaining Left bastions in the country came crashing down. 
  out the CPM, which has been running the state for the last 25 years.
 
 Ramesh said the fall of the Left isn’t good for Indian democracy. And implicit in his startling observation was also a criticism of the Left parties, in particular of the CPM and specifically of senior member  .
 
 “The Left has to be strong in India, the demise of the Left will be a disaster for India. We are political rivals, but I am the first to say that India can't afford demise of the Left,” said Ramesh at an event yesterday in Kerala, reported PTI news agency.
 
 Sitting in the audience when Ramesh made these comments was CPI(M) leader and Kerala Finance Minister T M Thomas Isaac.
 
  
  , now the only state in India with a Left government. In contrast, 10 years ago, the Communists were in power in as many as three states, West Bengal,   and Kerala. Not just that, the Left also had a whopping 59 seats in the Lok Sabha.
 
 Ramesh implied that this situation needn’t have come to pass, if the CPM had allied with the Congress - as the latter had suggested – in Tripura.
 
 In fact, in the run-up to the Assembly elections, even CPM general secretary   made a case for a tactical alliance with Congress in Tripura. But one faction of the CPM, led by former general secretary Karat, rejected the idea. Tripura’s own Left stalwart,  , the soon-to-be former chief minister, backed Karat.
 
 To its credit, the Tripura wing of the CPM acknowledged in a statement after its electoral rout that the BJP consolidated anti-Left votes, essentially by “appropriating the erstwhile main opposition party, the Congress”.
 
 According to the Congress's Ramesh, the Left is out of touch with the political zeitgeist. It needs to change its mindset to stay relevant in the current political climate in the country, he said.
 
 “People's aspirations are changing and so is society. The Left also has to change its mind accordingly,” said the senior Congress leader.
 
 Even the CPI, another Left party, believed the CPM failed to adapt to changing times. It said the Tripura results reflect not just the coming apart of the CPM’s electoral and political strategy but also a massive disconnect with reality. That's why the incumbent Left government in Tripura was routed by the BJP, which in the previous state election won zero seats and less than a 2 per cent vote share.
 
 After the results of the election on Saturday, the CPM’s Yechury made no comment about his suggestion of allying with the Congress being shot down.
 
 "The Tripura results clearly show that the Left should have tried to bring all the anti-BJP forces together to defeat the BJP. The Congress had its voters in the state. But we could not give them an alternative. We should have given them the confidence that we could take the BJP on," a senior CPM leader from Bengal who didn’t wish to be named, said to PTI.
 
 
 
