SURAT/RAJKOT: Scores of Dalit community came out on streets in Junagadh and   town of Rajkot district and Surat city on Thursday and blocked roads to protest violence in Bhima Koregaon.

 A number of Dalit organizations held a mass protest outside the district collectorate on Thursday to demand action against the culprits who had attacked participants at the congregation held at Bhima Koregaon. Members of Mahayavanshi Samaj Yuva Manch Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Vihar Samvradhak Samiti, Akhil Bharat Hindu Yuva Morcha and   reached the district collectorate from police commissioner’s office and submitted their memorandums. They were not given permission to take out a rally. They demanded immediate arrest of those who resorted to violence and said the culprits should be tried under the Prevention of Atrocities Act.
 
 Dindoli police also booked unidentified persons for pelting stones at a city bus near   at around 4 pm. The front glass of the bus was damaged, but no one was injured. A group of young men and teenagers threw stones at the bus and escaped. The bus driver came to know about the attack only when the first stone hit the windshield.
 
 Police have registered an offence of rioting and damage to public property. Police investigation revealed that four young men were standing on the road when the bus came. Soon, two other groups of five men joined them from a nearby lane and they together began to throw stones at the bus and escaped. Police have collected   camera footages of the area to identify the miscreants.
 
 “We are yet to identify anyone, but some local youths and teenagers could be involved. We are investigation what was their intention behind this,” said police adding that they couldn’t say with surety if the mob was from Dalit community. In Junagadh’s Vanthali town, a group of dalits blocked roads and shouted slogans protesting atrocities against them in the state. Road traffic movement was affected for nearly an hour. Vanthli observed a complete bandh. Police said that they had adequate personnel deployed to ensure that there were no untoward incidents.
 
 In   town, too, a group of Dalits blocked the Junagadh-Somnath highway for about 45 minutes and shouted slogans demanding justice for the community. A rally was taken out banners and placards. A couple of members protested with bare torsos against Dalits’ oppression. Dalit groups have called for Amreli bandh on Friday.
 
 
