MUMBAI: The loan waiver has hit   by banks in the state, data from the state-level bankers committee ( ) till the end of January shows.

 In 2016-17 till the end of January, the state’s banks achieved 72% of their crop loan target. But during the same 10-month span in 2017-18, they have achieved just 41% of their target. In absolute terms, disbursal has fallen by Rs 15,004 crores. In 2016-17, banks lent Rs 37,099 crore till the end of January. By 2017-18, the figure fell to Rs 22,095 crore.
 
 The reason, bankers say, is that recoveries from farmers have been hit since they are waiting for the waiver payout. Unless defaults are cleared, banks do not extend fresh loans. The new sowing season begins in June.
 
  
 “Disbursements have been slower in the loan waiver year with many expecting to be included in the waiver or waiting for the amount to be credited into their accounts. There has also been a reduction in the pending balance in the books as the money comes in from the state,” said Ravindra Marathe, CEO of   and chairman of the SLBC. This is a coordination forum of the state’s banks.
 
 Farmer groups seemed to concur, saying that owing to the waiver, many farmers chose not to renew their loans which would have made them eligible for fresh credit. Or they did not repay in the hope that they would be included in the waiver despite not meeting the eligibility criteria. “Since the bulk of crop loans has not come, farmers have not even been able to settle loans with private money-lenders,” said Ajit Navale from the Kisan Sabha.
 
 Progress in the loan waiver payout has been very slow. In eight months since the announcement, the state has credited Rs 12,362 crore to the accounts of 31 lakh farmers. That’s just 53% of the waiver amount of Rs 23,102 crore cleared so far.
 
 “The implementation of the loan waiver scheme has been very shoddy. There have been enormous delays and much back and forth. This is because unlike other waivers, the state took it upon itself to construct the list of beneficiaries instead of relying on banks,” said economist R Ramakumar from TISS. “Then it set up stringent eligibility criteria and initially added Aadhaar authentication to the mix,” he added.
 
 The state government claims disbursement of crop loans has been slower this year since farmers don’t need loans. “The farmers who have received loans from the waiver in some cases do not need fresh loans. Or they are waiting for the waiver amount, knowing it will come so they have not asked for loans,” said state cooperation minister Subhash Deshmukh.
 
 Of the state’s crop loan target of Rs 54,221 crore in 2017-18, the highest share is that of scheduled commercial banks followed by commercial banks and then public sector banks. The highest disbursement so far has been of Rs 13,001 crore from scheduled commercial banks. The lowest has been Rs 665 crore from regional rural banks.
 
 
