CHENNAI: The city police are probing the murder of a temple priest’s 23-year-old wife after a neighbour stumbled upon a disconcerting crime scene — the woman,  , beaten to death, her hands and feet tied, her husband also trussed up and gagged as well — in the couple’s house in   early on Saturday.

 Gold and cash were missing from the house but investigators said the brutality of the crime, and the fact that no one in the densely packed two-storey building in which the pair lived heard or saw anything suspicious, made them sceptical that it was a crime for gain.
 
 Vijayalakshmi, who owns the couple’s house and lives opposite them, called the police control room, a little before 6.30am, an investigating officer said. She said she found 27-yearold  , a priest at   ( ), unconscious and with his hands and feet bound with rope, in a common bathroom on the first floor of the building at 6.15am.
 
 
 
 
 “Vijayalakshmi went to inform Gnanapriya about her husband but found the door to their house bolted from outside,” the officer said. “Then she found Gnanapriya’s body in the blood-spattered single room in which the couple lived.”
 
 Prabhu, a priest at the Vadapalani temple on 100 Feet Road for the past five years, told the police two men attacked him when stepped out of his house to relieve himself 1.30 am. “He says he can’t remember anything after that,” the officer said.
 
 After hospitalising Prabhu, investigators pressed him for details about the strangers, but he said he was prone to bouts of epileptic seizures and blacked out. Prabhu has minor head injuries.
 
 Investigators said Gnanapriya died of severe trauma to the head. They sent the body for an autopsy, but a preliminary examination by forensics experts indicated that murder weapon was a blunt object — a club or a rod.
 
 “Her mangalsutra, her husband’s gold chain and ?40,000 in cash were missing from the room,” said another officer probing the crime. “But whoever did this, it is unlikely that it was for gain.”
 
 Nagalakshmi, another occupant of the building, told the police she last saw Gnanapriya outside her her house at 8.30pm on Wednesday.
 
 “Like   and other occupants,   did not see any stranger or hear any unusual sound overnight,” the officer said. “That’s very unusual for such a violent crime.”
 
 Vijayalakshmi rented out the house to Prabhu and Gnanapriya for ?3,500 per month three years ago. “Prabhu and his wife were from Kancheepuram,” the officer said. “They had been in love before they got married.”
 
