The Hero   begins today at DLF Golf and Country Club, Gurugram with a star-studded line-up of top golfers. Since joining the   schedule in 2015, the   has seen a dominance of Indian golfers with   claiming the title twice in 2016 and 2017 and   lifting the trophy in 2015. 

 
 
 While Chawrasia is eyeing the three-peat, Lahiri, winner here three years ago, is aiming to end the his drought at the event.
 
 Writing in his TOI Column, the 30-year-old opined that the event has always been special for him. 
 
 “My last win was three years ago and it came at the Hero Indian Open, wrote Lahiri. “So, it would be nice to end the drought at the same event. And it would make it sweeter, for it is always a very special event, for me personally and for all the other Indian players here,” added the two-time European Tour winner. 
 
 Apart from Chawrasia and Lahri, the one name that is doing the rounds as the favourite is  , who got a special invite from the Augusta Masters and is coming off a solid performance at his first World Golf Championship. And Lahiri also conceded that the 21-year-old will the biggest threat in tournament, alongside Chawrasia. 
 
 “I know all eyes are going to be on SSP (Chawrasia) who has always done well at this event – he won it last two times and he was second in the two editions before that,”said Lahiri. “So that’s two wins and two seconds in last four starts at the Hero Indian Open. It is an amazing record.
 
 “Coming to Shubhankar. It’s amazing to see what he is doing. There are so many kids out here that have the talent and potential. To see someone actually break through and just run away with his confidence and his game, like Shubhankar has, I think it’s a great thing for Indian golf. I think the kind of golf he is playing now. It’s hard to draw parallels, but what Aditi (Ashok) is doing in ladies golf, as a young golfer. I’m no longer young, so we need someone like Shubhankar now to step up.”
 
 Writing about the Indian Open, Lahiri believes that it is a great platform for young Indian golfers to make a mark at the big stage, similar to how he had opportunity to secure his second Asian Tour card in 2009. 
 
 “The event as such is a great platform for young Indians to make a first impression at the big stage. I still remember the year C Muniyappa won in 2009. It was on the old layout at DLF. That was my second year on the Asian Tour. I’ll never forget that round. I shot 64 on Sunday and made eagle to the back right pin on 18 to finish third. That basically secured my card. Everything else was history. I still remember that like yesterday. That happened to me when I was young, and it could happen to someone else this week. Like I said, it’s a great opportunity,” added the 2009 Professional Golf Tour of India Order of Merit winner. 
 
 He went on to say the this year’s Indian Open has the best Indian field he has ever seen and that will make things interesting. 
 
 “I think this is the best Indian field we’ve ever had and it also has the most in-form Indian players ever. Obviously with Shubhankar playing the way he is and Khalin (Joshi) recently had a top 10 in Malaysia. I also know Chikkarangappa is hungry, so there are a lot of hungry young Indian players raring to go. That will make it really interesting. So I’m looking forward to it,” added Lahiri. 
 
 
