KOLKATA: Trouble broke out at AMRI Mukundapur on Friday after a five-month-old infant died there around 5.40pm.

 Hours earlier, the child’s father had lodged a complaint at the  , levelling charges of medical   against the hospital. He had alleged to the police they were “misguided” by the doctors and hospital authorities and that the infant was administered “wrong treatment to inflate the bill”.
 
  
  
 But denying the charge, the hospital said they were in the process of lodging a police complaint. The hospital claimed they had counselled the family about the risks involved in the infant’s treatment. “The allegation of medical negligence is baseless. The child’s family members got agitated today after hearing about his condition. Friends and family who accompanied the parents assaulted some staff members, inflicting serious injuries to some. AMRI Hospitals is in the process of lodging a police complaint,” said a hospital statement.
 
 Rohit and Neha Jaiswal, residents of Jadavpur’s Bapujinagar, admitted their son to AMRI on April 30 with complaint of vomiting after every feed. “When we brought him to hospital, the only problem he had was he would vomit every time he was fed. After three to four days, we were told he had a block in the food pipe and needed a surgery. We decided to take the child to Chennai,” said Aman, the child’s uncle. But, the family alleged, as soon as they requested to discharge the child, the boy was shifted to ICU. The authorities said we could get him discharged at our risk and only after signing a bond, Aman claimed. “We did not want to take any chance with such a small child,” he said.
 
 In the police complaint, the family claimed the doctor, who conducted the operation, said the surgery was successful, but the child had contracted infection and would have to be on life support. “On May 8, they put the boy on ventilation, saying it would not be for more than 48 hours. But he remained there for over a week. On May 16, after my nephew was taken off ventilation, his parents saw him bleeding from the nose and he had bloated. He was put back on ventilation,” Aman claimed. Earlier in the day, the family claimed they had cleared a bill of Rs 7 lakh.
 
 
 
 
 Police rushed to a Park Circus nursing home after the family of a preterm newborn alleged doctors were not giving them any information on the infant, who was on ventilation.
 
 
