It’s been two years since   announced her engagement to US businessman  , and going by their social media posts and pictures, the couple looks very much in love. However, the one question that the actress and her fiancé frequently encounter these days is when they will finally tie the knot.

 “We keep trying to plan our wedding, but fail to decide on anything since both   and I are not staunch believers of the institution of marriage. Also, we already feel that we are married. We celebrate life like one big party, so our wedding will also be just another bash with our loved ones. I have a feeling that one day, we might go on a holiday and surprise everyone with a sudden wedding. I would love to do something like that since I don’t believe in inviting the entire world,” says Shama. Elaborating on her dream wedding, the actress adds, “Whenever we get married, it will be a white wedding somewhere abroad. And it will be a close-knit affair with just friends and family in attendance.” 
 
 Fiercely unconventional,   says that she wants to live life on her own terms. “I don’t need to get married to have a baby. I will proudly call it my love child,” she states. 
 
 Recalling how she met James, she says, “We met at a common friend’s house and I felt an instant and strong attraction towards him. It was as if we shared some past-life connection. I was surprised, because I had just come out of another relationship and was trying to avoid getting close to anyone.” The feelings were mutual. “After our first meeting, we started talking to each other every day. We were in Dubai when he proposed to me in January 2015. A year, later we got engaged, again in Dubai,” she recalls. 
 
 The couple has kept the romance alive in their relationship and tries to spend as much time as possible, together. “Both of us are romantic and we love writing poems for each other; he also sends me flowers from wherever he is. These are small gestures that every girl will love,” Shama says. 
 
 James, she says, has also stood by her in tough times. “I have bipolar disorder, but I started feeling better after meeting James. His love calms me down and he makes me feel safe and secure. He made me believe in myself by just being there for me,” she signs off. 
 
 
