

 
 
 The performance of the   government in the first year of its rule has been disastrous. Amarinder formed the government on false promises. Upon gaining power, his government forgot all the promises made with the people of the state before the elections. Amarinder had promised complete farm debt waiver, jobs in every family and much more. All these turned out to be a fraud just to gain power.
 
 
 
 
 
 He is the biggest culprit of aggrieved farmers and unemployed youths of Punjab. Amarinder had promised complete farm loan waiver which included every type of loan, but he came down to the point where he started talking about waiving loans only from cooperative societies that too for farmers owning up to 2.5 acres of land. In the same way, Amarinder had promised jobs to unemployed youths but now very low-paying jobs in private companies are being offered. All this is sheer cheating.
 
 
 
 Any duly elected government must fulfil promises it has made with the people. Everybody, including me, expected that the newly-formed Congress government will respect its own words, but it has belied all expectations. Now, expecting anything from this government is not wise.
 
 
 
 Punjab is heading towards anarchy. The state is passing through total lawlessness. All the development work of the previous SAD-BJP government has been stopped, even tenders for development work have been put on hold, and money has been withdrawn. All the welfare schemes like atta dal, old-age pension, and shagun have come to a grinding halt. The poor have been hit the hardest. We have never seen such an anti-people government.
 
 The Congress leaders, including the chief minister, have been complaining that the previous SAD-BJP government had emptied the treasury before the last year’s assembly election.
 
 It is not a question of the state treasury being full or empty. Every year budget is prepared, resources are generated and money is spent on developmental work. ‘Empty treasury’ is only an excuse and we never made excuses and have spent money on developmental work and welfare schemes.
 
 
 
 Shiromani Akali Dal has been biggest sympathiser of the farming community in the real sense, but the Amarinder government has fooled farmers by making false promises. The farming community has seen the real face of the Amarinder government and they are highly disillusioned with this government. They were not angry with the SAD-BJP government.
 
 The Congress government was expecting support from the Modi government at the Centre for its debt waiver scheme.
 
 The state government had promised the debt waiver on its own and never claimed that the Union government would support it. Some of the state governments have announced debt waivers for farmers but those governments have not got any support from the Union government and have mobilised resources on their own. This government too should have collected resources on its own rather than expecting or blaming the Union government.
 
 
 
 I never feel bad about losing power. I am in politics not only to enjoy power. I am here to serve the people and it could be done even without power. I am constantly meeting people and stay among them. It is not necessary to remain in power to remain among people. I am happy where I am, but I will surely say again that when we were in power we did what we promised.
 
 
 
 It is inappropriate to comment on this. It has only been a year since the Congress formed the government and they still have four more years to go. It will be wise to comment on this near the end of its five-year term, not now.
 
 
 
 I am committed to the party till my last breath. Whatever the party will demand from me, I will discharge my duties as a committed solider till the end. As far as contesting the next election is concerned, it is premature to comment on it as the elections are four years away. However, I want to make it clear, I will not retire from politics.
 
 
 
 I have already made it clear that I will do whatever the party will demand from me. I will not sit idle. The party is supreme and it is the party which decides the role of every worker. So, I will do as per wishes of the party.
 
 Some of the BJP’s regional allies like Shiv Sena and Telugu Desam Party have growing differences with the ruling party. What about SAD?
 
 Shiromani Akali Dal and BJP have been in a sacred alliance since a long time ago. We have contested many elections together and have jointly won many. Our alliance is rock solid. We will jointly contest the upcoming parliamentary elections in 2019.
 
 
 
 It is a better option. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is thinking over it and let things get clear, but if it happens, it will be good for everyone. Elections in some or other state are held every few months and a lot of money is spent on this exercise.
 
 
 
 Narendra Modi has led India to great heights. His government is performing well. We have high expectations from this government.
 
 
 
 (Laughs) This question should be directed to Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who otherwise is doing well like her government is doing.
 
 There seems to be an indication that Harsimrat Badal may contest 2019 elections from Ferozepur.
 
 This will be decided by the party, but Harsimrat has done a lot for Bathinda in last 10 years. She brought Central University, All-India Institute of Medical Sciences, centres of food processing industry, started the airport and Shatabdi trains. She has done a lot for Bathinda, so I do not think so.
 
 
 
 I never practice politics of personal animosity. I am not bothered about what others say, but as far as I am concerned, I do not like to become personal and make such charges. I love everyone and respect everyone. I do not find it appropriate to react to whatever others say.
 
 Sidhu has alleged that 18 SAD presidents had only 1% of the wealth that your family possesses. Your comment.
 
 Again, I will say I do not like to comment on such baseless charges. I practice politics of positivity and not negativity. What to talk about Sidhu as he has termed the various memorials built by our government with crores as chitta hathi (white elephant). We built memorials for Jang-e-Azadi, depicting religious leanings and valour of Sikhs like the memorials for ghallughara (massacre), Virasat-e-Khalsa, Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, Bhagat Ravidas and Valmiki. The use of inappropriate words for the memorials by Sidhu is not right.
 
 
 
 I am not interested in this kind of politics. Only Sukhbir could answer this, but I will say politics should not be about indulging in blame game.
 
 
 
 It is for everyone to see what is happening over this ‘tax,’ but again I will say I do not prefer to play the blame game.
 
 
 
 Whenever a dignitary comes to our place, we must accord warm welcome to that person holding high office. There must not be any hesitation in it. If our PM goes to any country and gets a raw deal, we feel sorry about it.
 
 
 
 Debate about the blacklist of Sikhs living abroad has been going on for long now. Many of the persons who figured in these lists might have died and others have become old. The Union government should assess the present atmosphere and prevailing situation and only then should it take decisions regarding such issues.
 
 
 
 
 
 The government has spent its first year in initiating concrete steps to salvage Punjab from the mess the SAD-BJP government left the state in. The Congress government has been at it from the word go.
 
 Two procurement seasons without any hitch speak volumes of effective governance and the party’s commitment to the cause of farmers. The farmers who had come to grain markets did not have to wait for even a day. The opposition’s stand shows that they have scant regard for the welfare of the farming community.
 The farm debt waiver is an initiative by the Congress government that has set the ball rolling in the rest of the country. States like Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra have followed Punjab with similar waiver schemes. This is just the beginning and only the first lot of farmers have got the relief and over 10.5 lakh farmers small and marginal farmers will be covered in the state in the coming months.
 
 Parkash Singh Badal’s criticism of the debt waiver scheme is a desperate bid to cover up his own government’s failures and misdeeds of the past 10 years. The Capt Amarinder Singh government had categorically announced its decision to waive loans up to Rs 2 lakh of farmers with up to 5 acres of land and this is being done. The Rs 1,500-crore allocation made for this purpose in the budget was merely the first instalment of the loans that the government would be paying off towards their bank settlement.
 
 Along with the job fairs, skill development training programmes are being organised by the state government to make every youth of Punjab capable of seeking jobs and to generate more employable opportunities for the youth.
 
 
