VADODARA: Six months after a city-based builder was fired upon, the police arrested two persons involved in the crime. The special operations group (SOG) nabbed the duo after they received a tip-off that it was carrying firearms. Investigations revealed that they had fired at Jitendra   on the Sun Pharma Road in November last year.

 The cops said they nabbed   and Shaadan Pathan when they were passing from Tandalja area on a motorbike. When frisked, the cops found two country-made pistols and 11 live cartridges from them. The duo was arrested and questioned about the firearms. “During their questioning, they revealed that they had fired on Agrawal last year. The duo had hatched a plan to extort money from Agrawal and also did recce of his movements. They had planned to demand Rs five crore from him,” said Manoj  , city police commissioner.
 
 The duo zeroed in Agrawal after they noticed a luxurious car parked outside Oasis Avenue building that was under construction. They noted the mobile number mentioned in the advertisement and then followed Agrawal’s movements. In November, when Agrawal was on his way back in a car on Sun Pharma Road, Abdullah, who was hiding nearby, suddenly intercepted him. “Abdullah fired on the car to scare Agrawal. But the bullet hit the builder’s leg following which Abdullah and Shaadan fled from the spot,” Sashidhar added.
 
 They got scared so they didn’t contact Agrawal who had filed a police complaint at J P Road police station. During interrogation, Abdullah said that he had purchased the pistols and 20 live cartridges from Uttar Pradesh from a man identified as Dinesh  . Abdullah and Shaadan then fired some rounds from the pistols at different places for testing the firearms. The police said that the duo that originally hails from Uttar Pradesh had settled in the city over last few years.
 
 The accused duo have completed their SSC and used to do carpentry for a living. “It is their first crime but they were planning to target other builders in similar manner. We will be sending a team to UP to track down Yadav and other persons involved in the crime,” Sashidhar said.
 
 Arrested duo wanted to start own gang
 
 Vadodara: Abdullah Pathan and Shaadan Pathan, who were arrested for firing at a builder, were planning to start their own gang in the city. The police said that they wanted to extort Rs five crore from Jitendra Agrawal and then use the money for hiring people in their gang. The duo was enamoured with criminal gangs shown in movies and hence wanted to have its own gang.
 
 
