TIRUVANNAMALAI: A   charged with raping a minor girl and impregnating her is roaming free, scaring even the police, with apparent  . Fearing the wrath of the godman with immense political influence and money power, the Tiruvannamalai   have failed to bring him to book for over 10 months now.

 The officials of the district social welfare office (DSWO) had filed a case against S Sasikumar, a landlord and resident of Kandiyan Kuppam village, for raping a 17-year-old girl and impregnating her.
 
 The All woman police in Tiruvannamalai filed a case on June 9 last year and invoked Section 376 ( ) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) read with Sections 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault), 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and 17 (punishment for abetment) of Protection of Child from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, against him.
 
 Apart from this, a case was filed against Sasikumar under Section 498-A (Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 506 (1) (criminal intimidation) of the IPC following a complaint from his wife Sangeetha (name changed).
 
 The issue came to light when Sangeetha approached the DSWO, seeking its intervention to reunite her with her husband. She also alleged that her husband had an extramarital affair.
 
 An inquiry into the petition unravelled that Sasikumar had an affair with Valli, a co-accused in the cases. She had also forced her 17-year-old daughter into a physical relationship with her paramour to bear his child, said an inquiry official.
 
 “We rescued the minor girl with the help of the child welfare committee in the third week of April 2017. The medical test held on May 31, 2017, confirmed that the girl was in her first trimester. The girl refused to abort the foetus. She was accommodated in a government home in Vellore district where she gave birth to the baby,” said the official.
 
 In the meantime, the officials of DSWO approached the police requesting to   and file a charge sheet against Sasikumar before the court. But the police shrugged it off stating that the accused was absconding. But in reality he was roaming freely.
 
 “Though the police are well aware of his whereabouts, they are not arresting him. We even tipped the investigation officer (inspector Hemamalini) about the accused, but to no avail,” said the official. 
 
 The inspector allegedly told a senior official of DSWO that she was scared of the godman. “The inspector told me that she was feeling insecure and scared of the godman (fortune teller),” the official said, adding that the accused had political and financial backing.
 
 After the victim turned 18, her sister had obtained her legal custody from the the Madras high court. “Now, the girl is living with the same man (Sasikumar). This makes the whole process of rescuing the victim and the judiciary farcical,” said the official.
 
 Rejecting the allegations, inspector A Hemamalini said that they have tracked down Valli and her daughter, whom Sasikumar got married to and fathered a child. “But they are not cooperating with us and revealing his whereabouts. But we will soon arrest him,” said the inspector. 
 
 Assistant superintendent of police of Tiruvannamalai Ravali Priyagandhanpuneni said two special teams have been formed to nab the accused, while Tiruvannamalai superintendent of police R Ponni said, “We have already reviewed the case. We will soon secure him.” 
 
 
