NAGPUR: A day after senior Congress leader   was expelled by state Congress unit, rival groups in the city unit of the party were holding their cards close to the chest refraining from going public on their next move.

 Soon after landing in the city from Mumbai on Friday night,   was huddled at his   residence with his close associates to weigh the options before them. The group sees it as a vindictive action by   president Ashok Chavan more of a personal vendetta for the fight he had with Chaturvedi during a ticket distribution meeting before the NMC elections. Another meeting started at his place and was inconclusive till filing of this report.
 
 The rival group feels Chavan was taking a revenge as a 70-strong delegation from the city, including five ex-ministers, had met Rahul Gandhi last year and sought his (Chavan’s) removal from the MPCC chief post for failing to end faction feuds in the party. Also the Congress unit in NMC was split and Tanaji Wanve of the rebel camp was appointed leader of opposition in NMC house.
 
 His supporters are expressing doubts if the action has been taken with party president Rahul Gandhi’s consent. More so as Chaturvedi was in Delhi earlier this month and had half-an hour meeting with Rahul in which he explained his position. Sources close to the ex-minister and five-term MLA say the action is excessive, more so as Chaturvedi has ideologically never deviated from the Congress and has been AICC member for many years.
 
 City president Vikas Thakre spent most part of the day in Mumbai huddled with party leaders and reached city on Saturday afternoon. He refused to speak on the fallout of the expulsion and said he would make any statement only after a meeting with his executive body to discuss the matter. Apparently both the groups were playing the waiting game eagerly watching the other’s move.
 
 While there was no indication from Chavan group of going soft or considering a patch-up with Chaturvedi, the latter is hopeful that the party high command would consider his appeal and make Chavan to review the MPCC decision.
 
 Right now the Vilas Muttemwar-Thakre faction in the city is of the view that enough time and opportunities were given to Chaturvedi to mend his ways and adhere to party discipline. But the battle of attrition which started with Chaturvedi-Nitin Raut faction being sidelined when Thakre formed his executive body flared up and the rebel group started holding parallel events on every occasion keeping away from the official functions of the party.
 
 The rivalry attained its peak when Chatuvedi roped in support of sitting MLA Sunil Kedar, several ex-ministers, ex-MLAs and ex-MPs, including Raut, Gev Awari, Ashok Dhawad, Shivajirao Moghe, Vasant Purke and Naresh Pugalia. The climax of the rivalry saw the rebel group holding a well-attended rally in Chandrapur to counter the MPCC rally being held there in which Chavan and state-in charge   were also present. This was taken as an affront leading to the expulsion.
 
 
