BENGALURU: Passengers travelling in   can soon get daily passes through cashless mode. The state-run corporation has partnered with tech startup Series-5 Labs Private Ltd to launch a   —  

 
 Sources said the facility is likely to be launched in a few weeks. BMTC managing director V Ponnuraj said trial run is on. Passengers don’t have to download any mobile app to use the facility, instead they can visit webpage www.nammapass.series-5.com, enter personal details, upload a selfie and pay for the daily pass through PhonePe wallet. Selfie is mandatory to avoid the same pass being used by multiple passengers.
 
 On boarding, the passenger has to show the digital pass ticket on his/her mobile phone to the conductor. The conductor willthen providehis/her ID number to the passenger. Once it is validated, an SMS will be sent to the conductor’s mobile and BMTC server. Then the conductor will enter the Namma Pass number on theelectronic ticketing machine.
 
 Saro Chandra Bhooshan, CEO of Series-5Labs,said: “We are getting good response from passengers for the trial run. We are also in talks with commercial establishments to give discounts and cashback to users.”
 
 He said the cashless mode will help BMTC save 2.6 lakh sheets a day. “The wood of one tree produces 10,000 A4 sheets, which means at least 25 trees can be saved a day by choosing the cashless method.”
 
 A Vajra daily pass costs Rs 147 and there are complaints of conductors not returning the balance (Rs 3) and also the same pass being used by multiple passengers. BMTC officials are hoping such complaints will be reduced once the digital daily pass is launched.
 
 Meanwhile, BMTC’s openloop smartcard, a cashlessfacility launched along with Axis Bank in June 2016, has run into hurdlesduetoReserveBankof India’s tougher know your customer (KYC) norms.
 
 Avail discounts on Vajra bus fares till June-end
 While skyrocketing diesel prices are burning a hole in its pocket, BMTC has decided to extend discounts for passengers of AC Vajra buses till June-end. On January 1, BMTC had announced a 5%-37% reduction in fares on a trial basis. The initiative was targeted at weaning away passengers from cab aggregators like Ola and Uber. BMTC officials said the number of travellers in AC buses increased after fares were reduced but the operationalcost went up.
 
