BENGALURU: Chief minister Siddaramaiah has decided to contest from the ‘safe’ Badami assembly constituency in Bagalkot district of North Karnataka, besides Chamundeshwari in Mysuru district of South Karnataka. The high command is likely to agree to the chief minister contesting from the two seats.

 Siddaramaiah on Thursday held a marathon meeting with sitting   B B Chimmanakatti and persuaded him to vacate the constituency for him. Chimmanakatti, who was reluctant to part with what he considers his bailiwick till Wednesday, was reportedly assured of a nomination to the Upper House in the event of the party returning to power.
 
 “I am vacating my constituency without any condition. I want to see Siddaramaiah as chief minister again, and will take full responsibility to ensure his victory in Badami constituency,” Chimmanakatti told media persons later.
 
 KPCC working president S R Patil, too, was present at the meeting.
 
 Party sources said a section of   leaders, including Mallikarjun Kharge, is opposing the idea of the chief minister contesting from two constituencies, stating it would send out a wrong signal before the elections.
 
 However, the Congress claimed that North Karnataka Congress leaders voluntarily met Siddaramaiah and urged him to contest from Badami, as it would help the party in the region.
 
 “There is pressure from the people of Badami on Siddaramaiah to contest from their constituency. Their feelings will be conveyed to the party high command,” Congress sources quoted Siddaramaiah as saying, indicating his willingness to contest from Badami.
 
 A final decision will now be taken by the high command. Given that Rahul Gandhi, during a recent interaction with media persons in Bengaluru, seemed okay with Siddaramaiah contesting from two segments, the chief minister’s wish may be granted.
 
 If he contests from Badami, Siddaramaiah will become the first incumbent chief minister to contest from two new segments. Siddaramaiah had already announced his decision to contest from Chamundeshwari, vacating his Varuna seat for son Dr Yathindra.
 
 Thursday’s development also gives credence to an intelligence report that Siddaramaiah is on a sticky wicket in Chamundeshwari, owing to the consolidation of Vokkaliga votes in favour of the JD(S). The report, which went viral on social media a few days ago, had suggested four alternative constituencies to Siddaramaiah: Badami, Varuna, Basavakalyan and Shantinagar.
 
 Badami is dominated by the Kuruba community to which Siddaramaiah belongs, and an internal survey of the party, according to Congress sources, pointed out the segment as ‘safe’ for the chief minister.
 
 
 
 
