NEW DELHI: Recently, when the name of the upcoming T20I tri-series in Sri Lanka was announced, the mind flashed back to the last of the awesome decades - the 1990s. The  . Missing was the sponsor’s name of yore - Singer-Akai - but the tournament name immediately resonated and elicited a flurry of images. 

 
 
 
 While for millennials the name may not ring a bell, a generation of Indian cricket fans in that decade should remember the term ‘Nidahas Trophy’ well. The first time it entered cricket’s lexicon was 20 years ago, when a tri-series ODI tournament between Sri Lanka, India and New Zealand was held in Sri Lanka in the summer of 1998 to celebrate 50 years of the country’s independence. 
 
 As expected during that time of year in those parts, three of the ten games were abandoned without a ball bowled owing to rain, and another two called off on account of inclement weather. New Zealand had no chance of making the final after four of their fixtures were washed out, which meant that India, with one win in three completed matches, and the hosts, with three wins out of four, met in the final of the Nidahas Trophy on July 7, 1998 at Colombo’s Premadasa Stadium.
 
 
 
 
 Allow me to offer a bit of context to this clash. 
 
 It was 1998, Tendulkar’s annus mirabilis, when runs flowed like wine. That year, India had already reached the finals of four ODI tournaments, winning three and losing one. This included Hrishikesh Kanitkar’s last-over heroics against Saqlain Mushtaq in Dhaka and Tendulkar’s unforgettable attack on Australia in Sharjah - the Desert Storm series. India had reason to believe they could add a fourth ODI title, such was the mood and Tendulkar’s form in 1998. 
  
  
  
 
 
 That year, Sri Lanka - reigning world champions after the success of the 1996 World Cup - had won eight of 13 completed ODIs, beating Zimbabwe 3-0 and winning two of six matches in a triangular featuring South Africa and Pakistan. The Nidahas Trophy was a shot at winning another trophy in front of the home fans. 
 
 
 
 
 It was the decade of Sanath Jayasuriya pulverising Indian bowling attacks around the world, and the memories of the infamous 1996 World Cup semi-final in Kolkata, when Eden Gardens burned as India’s tournament dreams came crashing down following an infamous collapse, had not been pushed into the background. Though truth be told, the stake was driven into India’s heart by Aravinda de Silva that afternoon at Eden Gardens, when he clattered 66 off 47 deliveries to turn a horror start into position of dominance. 
 
 A little over a year before, in May 1997,   had been bowled first ball by Chaminda Vaas in and ODI at the Wankhede, in which a target of 226 was overhauled almost single-handedly by Jayasuriya’s unbeaten 151 off 120 balls. As 1997 closed, Sri Lanka drew an ODI series in India 1-1. 
  
  
 
 It was not a great cricketing rivalry, but there was plenty of excitement. When it came to knockout matches of ODI tournaments in the 90s, India had beaten Sri Lanka in the finals of the Asia Cup in 1991 and 1995 and the final of the Singer World Series in 1994, and had lost only in the summit clash of the 1997 Asia Cup. Sri Lanka, of course, had the 1996 World Cup to boast about, as well as that league match from the same tournament in Delhi, when Jayasuriya reduced Manoj Prabhakar, in his final international appearance, to trundle in and bowl some variant of spin during the Powerplay to the tune of four wicketless overs that cost 47 runs. 
 
 Back to the match. On the big day, India were driven to a big total - by that era’s standards - of 307/6 on the back of a record opening partnership of 252 between Sourav Ganguly (109) and - who else? - Tendulkar (128). Sri Lanka had pipped India by eight runs in a low-scoring league match of the tournament, but their pace bowling was threadbare without Chaminda Vaas, Ravindra Pushpakumara and Sajeewa de Silva. Tendulkar and Ganguly drove, cut and pulled with authority on a flat Premadasa surface, running the bowling into the ground on a sticky Colombo afternoon. 
 
 
 
 The spinners struggled. Niroshan Bandaratilleke used the new ball and conceded 36 in five overs, with Tendulkar and Ganguly using their feet to hit him over the infield. Kumar Dharmasena went wicketless in ten overs that cost 67. Muttiah Muralitharan took 1/51 in eight overs, Upul Chandana 1/33 in five and Jayasuriya was the pick of the lot with 2/42 in nine. 
 
 In reply, Jayasuriya cracked 32 off 25 balls before he was dismissed by Ajit Agarkar - who finished with a pivotal 4/53 - and then Aravinda de Silva reeled off a sparkling 105 from 93 balls, dismissed by Agarkar in the 44th over. India chipped away and Sri Lanka fell six runs short in what was a memorable final. 
 
 At the time, this Tendulkar-Ganguly association surpassed the previous best opening stand of 225 between the Kenyan pair of Deepak Chudasama and Kennedy Otioneo, scored against Bangladesh in October 1997. Since then, several opening acts have surpassed the Tendulkar-Ganguly stand of 252, but for die-hard Indian cricket fans that day in Colombo will remain forever. 
 
 
 
 
