NAGPUR: A new scam has rocked Nagpur University as an ex-warden of its hostel is believed to have siphoned off Rs20 lakh deposited by students towards mess charges. Confirming this, vice-chancellor   on Tuesday said that NU would lodge a police complaint against ex-warden Prakash   working with its Physics Department.

 NU had appointed a panel under finance and accounts officer (FAO) Raju Hiwase after the fraud came to light. “A chartered accountant was made part of the panel to verify the details. When the panel sought explanation from Shedmake, he failed to satisfactorily reply to their queries and tried to mislead them,” Kane said.
 
  
  
 “The panel clearly indicted him for the fraud. It has also came to fore that he deposited Rs1.5 lakh back into NU’s account in  . We will be filing a charge sheet against him in this regard shortly. He would be granted a chance to defend himself before disciplinary action, including suspension, is initiated against him,” Kane said. 
 
 The VC expressed surprise that Shedmake, who took charge as warden of NU’s lower hostel about three years ago, indulged in the corrupt practice despite earning a decent salary. 
 
 “NU charges Rs2,000 as deposit towards mess charges from students staying in hostels. Usually, that amount is refunded at the end of session after they pay full arrears towards mess. In case of arrears, Rs1,200 are deducted and remaining Rs800 are returned to them,” the VC said.
 
 The wardens are granted rights to refund the money, but Shedmake siphoned off this amount through cheques in multiples of Rs1 lakh and Rs50,000. 
 
 The fraud was noticed by new warden   after he took the charge. He sought details about bank accounts and on noticing the discrepancies, demanded explanation from Shedmake. When the ex-warden failed to answer the queries, Korti apprised his superiors of the matter. Shedmake is beloved to have used the amount for his household expenses. 
 
 It also came to light that Shedmake deposited Rs1.5 lakh in the bank after Korti sought explanation from him and its entry was reflected in the bank accounts. “All these years, only entries of Rs2,000 have been made into that account. This is indeed a serious case of fraud, and NU would set up a panel to probe the case,” the VC said.
 
 Earlier, hostel inmates under   (BASA) requested the VC not to evict them from the premises, as they were preparing for competitive examinations. But the VC denied stated that as per rules they were allowed to stay only till June.
 
 
