GHAZIABAD: A 30-year-old man caught on camera groping two seven-year-old girls and trying to kiss them during   celebrations in an Indirapuram housing society has been arrested. 

 The arrest followed a complaint of   by the twin sisters’ father, a software engineer. The police have registered an FIR under Section 354 (molestation) of the IPC and under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
 
 The accused has been identified as Naresh, an original resident of West Bengal. Police sources said Naresh had been living in a shanty near the housing society and working as a daily-wage labourer.
 
 The police have also recorded the statements of the two girls. SHO, Indirapuram, Sachin Malik said: “The accused was identified on the basis of footage from the housing society’s CCTV cameras. His identity has been confirmed by the girls’ father too.”
 
 The engineer, who lives with his wife, mother and twin daughters in a seventh-floor flat in Risabh Cloud 9 apartments, said he had been watching from the balcony his daughters playing Holi in an open area of the housing society on Friday. “Around 12.20pm, my mother pointed out that a man was trying to lift one of my daughters. When I looked closely, I saw the man had already picked her up in the arms and was trying to plant a kiss on the cheek. My second daughter was hitting him from behind. He then put down my first daughter, picked up the other and tried to do the same. I immediately rushed downstairs,” he had said.
 
 The father had said the accused was aged around 25-30 years, spoke in Bengali and was drunk. 
 
 He caught the man and handed him over to the security guards, who released him when the father had gone upstairs to drop his daughters home. The residents of the housing society had said on Saturday that since most of the guards were on leave for Holi, it was a free run for outsiders who mixed with the society crowd during the celebrations.
 
 “Due to Holi celebrations, some security personnel are on leave. This could be the reason for outsiders entering the society without a check,” Sandeep Pandey, a member of a temporary association of society residents, had said.
 
 
