Mumbai: In a move to strengthen the   board, chairman N Chandrasekaran has roped in former   COO   as  .

 With the addition of Manwani (64), who retires as non-executive chairman of Hindustan Unilever ( ) in June, the total strength of Tata Sons’ board goes up to 12 members. It also expands the total number of independent directors to four. The other three independent directors are Ronen Sen, former Indian ambassador to the United States, Ajay Piramal, industrialist, and Farida Khambata, investment strategist with Cartica Advisory.
 
 Manwani is the second professional from Unilever to join the Tata Sons board after R Gopalakrishnan. Gopalakrishnan, former vice-chairman of Hindustan Lever, was on the board of Tata Sons for 17 years till he retired in 2015. Manwani was reportedly among the contenders for the chairman’s position at Tata Sons following the sudden exit of Cyrus Mistry in 2016.
 
 Besides the 12 directors, Tata Sons has Ratan Tata as its chairman emeritus, which is an honorary post. Ratan Tata is not included in the board of directors. During Ratan Tata’s chairmanship, the board was mostly filled with Tata Group insiders. Today, however, the board is more diverse in thought with a majority of directors being external professionals.
 
 Manwani’s induction reflects the $100-billion conglomerate’s plans to strengthen its consumer and retail businesses, where he has substantial experience, having managed and led businesses for Unilever on a global scale. “His contribution and counsel will be of great value to Tata Sons in its governance as well as in its strategic development,” said Chandrasekaran.
 
 In a recent interview to TOI, Manwani had said that he “would be actively engaged in his retired life” because he likes the idea of working with CEOs and seeing companies grow.
 
 Tata Group would benefit from Manwani’s vast global experience and also from his understanding of the local Indian market, including media-dark rural areas. At HUL, Manwani worked across categories and is credited to have developed a boutique personal products business into a large portfolio for the company. Globally, he has worked across markets, including large regions like Latin America and North America.
 
 Prior to becoming COO of Unilever in 2011, Manwani was president (home and personal care) of Unilever’s North America business and, in 2005, he was elevated to the Unilever Executive as president, Asia & Africa, and the region was later extended to include Central and Eastern Europe. An honours graduate from Mumbai University, Manwani holds a master’s degree in management studies from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies.
 
 
