GURUGRAM: An all-religion   under the banner of Sarva Khap Sarva Dharma Bhaichara and   was held on Sunday morning, with the objective of sending a message of   and peace in Gurugram following the recent controversy over disruption of namaz in open areas.

 The panchayat had 200 participants representing the people of 360 villages and different religious communities, including Sikhs, Muslims, Christians and Hindus. The initiative was led by Congress functionary  . “Gurugram is an international city with a cosmopolitan culture. Such incidents must not be repeated. We’ve come together to express solidarity with   and send a message that people from all religions coexist peacefully in the millennium city,” said Zaildar.
 
 He added that a suggestion was also made to withdraw police complaints against the six men accused of disrupting namaz on April 27. A few Muslim representatives backed the demand, and said when all communities have come together to send a message of unity and forgiveness, the complaint is best withdrawn. “We will meet officials from the district administration and discuss the matter of withdrawing the FIRs in the coming week,” said Zaildar.
 
 Most people who attended the panchayat supported the cause of   harmony and said such incidents would be consequential for the whole city.
 
  “Gurugram is known worldwide today for the business hub it is, and incidents disrupting the peace will impact business and industry for the worse. This will further reduce employment opportunities in the city. We do not want a bad name for the city, hence it’s important for the elders of all communities to send out a message of peace and harmony,” said Naresh Sehrawat of Sukhrali.
 
 Many others agreed with Sehrawat, and said it was only a handful of misguided youths who had been involved in obstructing namaz, while most of the city’s residents believe in living together in harmony.
 
 Amir Abidi, an educationist who has been living in Gurugram for over two decades, was also a part of the panchayat. He said, “Migrants like myself have a huge role in making Gurugram what it is today. Hence, calling us outsiders is absolutely unfair. Namaz is offered in open areas across the world, and it’s out of a need, not because we want to pray in the open even in extreme weather conditions.”
 
 He added that it was important the city recognises the role of migrants irrespective of their caste, religion or colour, adding that people from all communities must come together to help Muslims exercise their right to pray.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that a day after the saffron outfits had threatened to disrupt Friday prayers on May 18, a Congress-backed group called for a boycott of people who are “trying to flare up communal tension” in the city.
 
  Friday prayers were stopped in several parts of Gurugram by Hindutva outfits that went around the city shouting slogans like 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Bangladeshi wapas jao' and disrupted congregations at several places on several occasions. 
 
 
