Mysuru: Traffic between Mysuru and Kengeri crawled at a snail’s pace on Sunday evening, thanks to the heavy rush of people returning — most in private vehicles — to the city after a  . Travel time doubled from three to six hours, despite Mandya district police removing all barricades to ensure free flow of traffic.

 According to travellers, traffic had slowed considerably early in the morning, but worsened after 11am when a steady wave of vehicles from Kodagu joined traffic at Mysuru. “Vehicles which left Mysuru around 12 noon reached Ramanagara around 5.30pm,” said Ramesh Kumar, a cab driver from the city. He was dropping a group of four tourists from Madikeri to Bengaluru. “We were forced to stop every two-three kilometres and wait for five to ten minutes before moving again. I have never seen such a bad traffic jam on this route before.”
 
 Motorists say there was no rush in the opposite direction — between Bengaluru and Mysuru. "But between Srirangapattana and Ramanagara cities, the traffic was hellish,” Ramesh said. “As there are no bypass roads in towns like Srirangapatta, Maddur etc, local traffic further worsened the situation.”
 
 Kushal Kumar, a resident of Malleswaram, Bengaluru, who was returning after travelling to Madikeri on January 24 along with his colleagues, said although the volume of traffic was huge from Madikeri, it was worse after Srirangapattana.
 
 "From Madikeri we faced a lot of problems due to goods vehicles arriving from Mangaluru,” Kushal said. “But it tolerable and we were able to overtake. But after Srirangapattana we really found it very difficult. The whole stretch was filled with vehicle exhaust fumes.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, G Radhika, SP, Mandya revealed that NH 275 was chock-a-block with thousands of vehicles. "It was a long weekend and a number of tourists had visited Mysuru, Madikeri and other places nearby,” she said. “On Sunday they were all returning to Bengaluru. This caused traffic jams. We removed all the barricades to ensure free flow of vehicles. The situation is expected to ease only after 9pm.” 
 
 
