KOTA: A sub-divisional magistrate ( ), posted at Manoharthana sub-division of   district, was arrested by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) from his office for accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000.

 ACB also arrested two of his aides, including the driver and a tea stall vendor outside his office who on his behalf accepted the bribe amount. The accused SDM had demanded the bribe for not taking any action for the heap of sand that the complainant was taking to his home by tractor trolley from Kalikhad river riverbed of the area.
 
 Sawarmal Regar, posted as SDM in Manoharthana subdivision of Jhalawar district and resident of Jaipur district, was arrested for accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000 from one Amrit Lal  , a farmer in Manoharthana town from his office, inspector at ACB  , Ajeet Bagdoliya said.
 
 Two of his aides, including the driver identified as Sunil Jat and Kalulal, a tea stall holder outside SDM office, who accepted the bribe amount on his behalf were also arrested, the ACB inspector told.
 
 The accused SDM during his visit to Kalikhad river riverbed yesterday demanded Rs 20,000 for not taking action against complainant Meena who was taking tractor trolley full of sand to his home for construction purpose, Bagdoliya said.
 
 The complainant Meena reached Kota and lodged a report in this connection with ACB Kota following which after the verification of the complaint, the trap was carried out in the evening same day, he added.
 
 At the time of verification in the morning, the bribe amount was settled at Rs 10,000 and the complainant at the same time gave Rs 3,000 to which the SDM asked him to hand over it to driver Sunil Jat, the ACB inspector said. Later in the evening, the complainant was sent to SDM Regar with reaming Rs 7,000 to which he against asked to hand the amount over to the driver but the driver instructed to hand over the amount to Kalulal, the tea stall holder who accepted the amount, he said.
 
 The bribe amount of Rs 10,000 was recovered from the tea holder’s possession and three were arrested, he added.
 
 The ACB team has been sent for search at his residence in Jaipur and report is awaited, he further added.
 
 The three accused would be produced before the ACB court in Kota on Saturday, the ACB inspector said. 
 
 
