NEW DELHI: Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday decided not to hold re-examination for the   X mathematics paper whose question paper had been leaked earlier. This decision holds good even for candidates in NCR and Haryana, the two regions where the leak allegedly took place. The central government has constituted a high-powered committee to examine the process of conducting the   exams and suggest measures to make it secure.

 On Monday, TOI had reported that the Union human resource development ministry and CBSE were of the view that the leak would not significantly impact the examination and the overall result, so there would be no retest.
 
 Anil Swarup, MHRD secretary (school education), tweeted: “Consequent to the preliminary evaluation of the impact of reportedly leaked CBSE Class X   paper and keeping in mind the paramount interest of students, CBSE has decided not to conduct re-examination even in the states of Delhi, NCR and Haryana.”
 
 Swarup added that the government has constituted a high-powered committee under the chairmanship of ex-secretary, MHRD, VS Oberoi “to examine the process of conducting CBSE exams and suggest measures to make it secure and foolproof through the use of technology. Report to be submitted by May 31.”
 
 A statement issued by CBSE said, “Class X examination is essentially a gateway for Class XI. It, thus, remains largely an internal segment of school education system. It is therefore felt that the Board must address the primary concern of a large section of the students. Keeping in mind the paramount interest of students, the Board has taken the decision to not hold re-examination of Class X maths paper even in Delhi NCR and Haryana…”
 
 “However, wherever it is conclusively established, after due inquiry in specific cases, that undue advantage of the alleged leakage has been taken by certain beneficiaries, action shall be taken as per provisions of the CBSE examination bylaws,” the statement added.
 
 CBSE said that internal inquiries and analysis based on available inputs from the ongoing police investigations indicate that the alleged leak may be confined to a few beneficiaries. “Similarly, the trend or random evaluation done so far for Class X mathematics paper is not indicating sudden spikes or unusual patterns, giving any impression of passing on widespread benefits of alleged leaks to students,” the Board added.
 
 
