KOCHI: A proposal mooted by Cochin   Mission Ltd (CSML), if implemented, could result in the   in the city becoming part of history. A project by   envisages erection of around 500 smart   that would ensure mobile telephony, internet and   across the city.

 The CSML has invited expression of interest for implementing the project. “We would be preparing the request for proposal (RSP) and request for quotation (RSQ) later. The norms for RSP and RSQ can be finalized after the pre-bid meetings. During the pre-bid meetings, we will get an opportunity to learn more about the technological advancements which can be incorporated in the project. The norms can be prepared considering how the technology can be used to suit the city’s needs in a better way,” said a CSML official. “Once the smart poles are erected, it would provide internet, 4G cell phone and Wi-Fi connectivity to the entire city,” the official said.
 
 
 The poles would be set up 400m from each other. “Cities like New Delhi have started implementing smart pole project,” the CSML official said. In areas where streetlight poles and smart poles are to come up, one pole would be enough, the official said. The intelligent poles can also be used to mount advertisement billboards.
 
 As per the notification inviting expression of interest, smart pole is a path-breaking initiative to optimize the telecom infrastructure in the city and to make it effective and efficient. It allows city authorities to set up telecom infrastructure conforming to the looks of lighting poles. The newer technologies necessitate the telecom towers to be closer to ensure better bandwidth, lesser radiation, higher battery life and lesser call drops. Presently, the technology has been implemented in only few cities in the world. Like any other technology advent of smart pole is inevitable. It’s the desire of CSML to be the pioneer of smart pole technology network in India, the notification said. Based on the lead given by some of the smart cities in India, the initial proposal is for erecting intelligent street poles following a PPP model.
 
 The poles erected under the project can be used by all telecom service providers who are having the licence from   (DoT).
 
 “This would be implemented in consultation with various agencies like Kochi corporation. The project is expected to generate revenue for the corporation. The private partner which wins the project should give certain amount for the corporation for erecting each pole,” sources said. The last date for submitting pre-bid applications in response to the expression of interest is April 13, 2018.
 
