ARARIA/PATNA: Police on Friday arrested two youths named in an FIR lodged in connection with a video allegedly showing them shouting ‘anti-national’ slogans on Wednesday after the victory of   candidate   in the byelection in the Muslim-dominated   parliamentary constituency.

 In fact, three youths are seen shouting slogans such as ‘Pakistan zindabad’ and ‘Bharat tere tukde honge’ in the video that went viral on the social media. The duo arrested have been identified as Sultan Aazmi and Shehzad, while police are conducting raids to nab the third youth.
 
 The FIR was lodged by Araria town police station SHO Deepankar Srigyan on Thursday evening on the basis of a self- complaint after he received the video on his cellphone. “The video seems to have been shot in the Islam Nagar locality where MP Sarfaraz has his house,” the SHO said.
 
 Sarfaraz initially said the video was fake. On Friday, he told mediamen that police should take stern action against the accused if the video was authentic.
 
 Meanwhile, locals took out a protest march in Araria town on Thursday, demanding action against the trio. 
 
 It may be recalled that firebrand BJP leader and Union minister   had on Thursday said that Araria would become a ‘terror hub’ as a result of the RJD victory. RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s wife and former CM Rabri Devi retorted that all terrorists of India were sitting in the BJP office. “The slogan show was engineered by the BJP as part of a conspiracy against the RJD,” she said on Friday.
 
 Rabri’s son and leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said nothing could be said about the video until its authenticity was verified. “And why hasn’t a case been registered against Union minister Giriraj for giving such a provocative statement?” he asked.
 
 Though not against Giriraj, an FIR for violation of the EC’s model code of conduct was lodged against state BJP chief Nityanand Rai over his controversial statement at an election meeting on March 9 that ‘Araria will become a den of ISI if RJD candidate wins’.
 
 
