BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh Assembly has refused to divulge information under RTI about the status of minister   between June 23, 2017 and July 28 when he was disqualified by   and later got a stay from the Supreme Court.

 Assembly secretariat denied the information on the status of Mishra as an MLA or minister during the said period on the grounds that it is personal information and have no ‘larger public interest’. Election Commission had declared the election of minister Narottam Mishra null and void in paid news and election expenditure case on June 23, 2017, but a month later on July 28 the apex court granted stay on the orders of EC disqualifying Mishra and ordered Delhi high court to hear the matter.
 
 
 Former   on whose petition EC had disqualified Mishra had sought information related to the ‘action taken by assembly in light of June 23, 2017 order for Mishra’s disqualification, copies of orders and note sheets’ and ‘orders, note sheets issued by assembly after the Supreme court granted stay on ECI orders on July 28, 2017’.
 
 But the public information officer at the legislative assembly denied giving information on two grounds that the matter is still pending for decision and it pertains to personal information and has no larger public interest.
 
 Bharti moved a first appeal with the appellate authority in the assembly, but his petition was again rejected.
 
 On April 20, Bharti had moved the third appeal before the state information commission. “There is nothing personal, the man in question is an elected representative and the orders were passed by a constitutional body,” Bharti claims.
 
 “The question is about the legal position of Mishra during that one month whether he received all the facilities as a minister and MLA, whether he executed all the works of the minister. I feel that no action was taken by the assembly under the pressure of government to provide Mishra with some time to approach court and if possible get respite,” Bharti alleged.
 
 
 
