NEW DELHI:   president Rahul Gandhi attended a rock concert in Meghalaya last month, ahead of the Assembly polls there, but that doesn't appear to have helped his party as anti-incumbency finally caught up with it.
 
 
 The grand old party has been running Meghalaya since 2003, but in what may be a case of familiarity breeding contempt, infighting in the Meghalaya Congress weakened its electoral chances considerably. In December, five MLAs, including former deputy chief minister Rowell Lyngdoh, resigned from the state Assembly.
 
 That may explain why the Congress is ahead in a mere 23 of 59 seats for which polls were held. Sure, that puts it ahead of all the other parties, but a majority still some way away.
 
 Stepping into the breach is a party formed by Congress rebels no less. The National People's Party ( ), formed in 2012 by expelled Congress stalwart PA Sangma, is proving to be a thorn in the Congress's side.
 
 The NPP is leading in 15 seats, the 'Others' category is ahead in 17 and the   is up in four seats. The 'Others' include the United Democratic Party ( ) which is in an alliance with the Hill State People's Democratic Party (HSPDP), and a few others. All these parties combined are ahead in 36 seats. To form the government, a party or alliance needs 31 seats. 
 
 Here's where the UDP and HSPDP could step in to become kingmakers.
 
 Some sources said the BJP is looking for a post poll alliance with UDP to form government in the state. That still may not give it a majority were both parties to win the seats they are leading in currently.
 
 Meanwhile, Conrad Sangma of the NPP told reporters he's open to an alliance with the BJP. That still won't give it a majority were both parties to win the seats they are leading in currently.
 
 The Congress has hurriedly dispatched senior leaders Ahmed Patel and Kamal Nath to Shillong to counter the BJP. They want to avoid a repeat of what happened in Manipur and Goa last year. In both these states' Assembly elections, the Congress won the largest number of seats but were unable to forge alliances that would help get it to power. 
 
 Counting day may end with no clear winner and all signs point to a hung Assembly.
 
 The BJP calls the potential mandate "a vote against the Congress".
 
 "The vote is basically against the Congress if you see the performance of other parties. Leaders will discuss if there can be possibility of a post poll alliance", said Nalin Kohli, of the Meghalaya unit of the BJP.
 
