Phoolkali, Ramdhari, Shammo—three women at different stages of pregnancyare busy discussing changes they are feeling in their bodies. As they exchange notes, amid giggles, looks of concern and nuggets of advice from family elders, there is more than the joy of impending motherhood that unites them.

 All three of them, along with a dozen others, are HIV positive.
 
 The decision to give birth despite the life-threatening condition was not an easy one to take. Each one of them shuddered at the thought of passing on the dreaded virus to her child.
 
 However, getting over their apprehension, these brave women decided to go ahead and experience the joy of motherhood. The reason they could do so was their faith in the programme called Prevention of Parent to Child Transmission of HIV (PPTCT).
 
 The programme, part of the National AIDS Control Organization (NACO), has made it possible for an HIV positive woman to give birth to an HIV negative healthy baby.
 
 What was required from these women was the promise to take all medication timely and ensure proper care of themselves.
 
 “If an HIV positive pregnant woman is under our supervision and follows all medication, there are 80% chances that the baby would be HIV negative,” says NACO deputy programme manager Dr Rohit Pandey.
 
 A bit of care, proper counselling and timely treatment opens the doors for these women to not only deliver a healthy baby but also play their active role in the upbringing of the child, he adds.
 
 As Allahabad is a high-prevalence district for HIV, health department officials not only carry out series of educational and awareness programmes but also counsel HIV positive women to brief them about the possibility of delivering a healthy baby despite their HIV status.
 
 “Most women are illiterate. They hardly know anything about the virus or the consequences of the same. Most of them are either migrants themselves or from areas where male members migrate to distant cities to earn their bread,” says Dr Pandey.
 
 Before telling them about PPTCT, it is important to tell them about getting tested for HIV first. Some women might not even know they are HIV positive and can end up giving birth to children with the virus.
 
 Labourers, beggars, and those indulging in substance abuse constitute a large chunk of those ignorant about their condition. Many of them come from the neighbouring districts of Jaunpur, Pratapgrah and Rewa. A sizeable number is from Allahabad itself, adds Dr Pandey.
 
 “We maintain a close watch on both rural and urban sectors. HIV positive pregnant women are registered with antiretroviral centres for counselling. All their apprehensions are tackled and they are assured that they can be happy moms like any other woman,”
 
 says Dr Pandey.
 
 A child born to an HIV positive woman is administered a drug against HIV within 24 hours of birth. This gives protection if at all the virus is present.
 
 “I would like to appeal to all pregnant women to get tested for HIV. Even if they are negative, both parents should be extra careful throughout pregnancy in terms of needles used and blood transfusion,” says Dr Pandey.
 
 
