KOCHI: Giving a much-needed boost to the expansion of Vyttila Mobility Hub, Kochi   Rail Ltd ( ) has begun the search for consultants for preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for development of phase II. 

 KMRL officials said the phase II development will be passenger centric and will focus on transportation and public spaces rather than real estate. "An element of real estate development required for ensuring financial sustainability of the project will be built into the overall design of the project," said a KMRL official.
 
 The Metro agency has invited request for proposals (RFP) for preparing a DPR for phase II, and the bids will be opened on May 3. After signing the agreement, the consultant will have to submit the final DPR.
 
  KMRL stated the selected consultants will have to provide a preliminary report and validation of traffic surveys and other site analysis within one-and-a-half months, a draft DPR has to be submitted within two-and-a-half months and the final DPR has to be submitted within three months.
 
 "The proposal should be submitted by consultancy firms in two parts," says the KMRL tender document. This includes the technical proposal and financial proposal.
 
 The governing body of   has decided to proceed with the development of the second phase of the hub and entrusted the preparation of the detailed DPR with KMRL. The Metro agency stated that they have reviewed the existing development plans, transportation requirements, viability and sustainability aspects of the mobility hub project in consultation with experts in the field and other stakeholders.
 
 A pre-feasibility report, including the concept plan has already been prepared by KMRL, and it will form a basis for preparing the DPR. "However, the consultant should validate the accurateness," KMRL stated in the tender document.
 
 According to KMRL, the DPR should be "meticulously prepared" falling in line with the various aspects included in the concept plan.
 
 The consultants will have to focus on providing seamless connectivity between various modes of transport like buses, Metro, ferry, autorickshaws and cabs in a passenger-centric manner. They will have to provide provisions for well-planned infrastructure that prioritizes pedestrians and non-motorized transport users and ensures their safety. Pedestrian-friendly connectivity from the Metro station to the bus terminal, boat jetty and rickshaw stand has to be provided to encourage the development of urban spaces and green areas.
 
 In addition, they will have to provide qualitative open-spaces by landscaping the riverfront and the development of a public square. Facilitate entry and exit of all public and private buses, including interstate contract carriage and state-owned buses travelling through the hub. There should be facilities for commuters and drivers, which includes fuel stations, electric charging facilities for buses and feeder electric vehicles as per standard specifications.
 
 
