JAIPUR : The growing pressure from parents over school fees hike in the election year has forced the education department to swing into action against the errant schools. The department has cancelled the proposed fees of two schools—BVB Vidhyashram and St Anselm’s Senior Secondary School, both in Jaipur. Both the   have increased the fees above 20% on account of Seventh Pay Commission which the state stated that the hike was unjust. The district education officers have been asked to follow up on every complaint related to the fees hike. 

 Government sources said that education minister Vasudev Devnani had summoned the management of Vidhyashram School but the latter failed to justify the hike to the minister. “The department in its report find that hike was uncalled for and intended to make profit. Both schools were directed in the notice to keep the fee hike in abeyance and should not charge the revised fees from the parents,” said a government source. Reacting on the notice, the chairman of the advisory committee of the school, Vimal Surana told TOI, “We are examining the notice.”
 
 The school has been facing series of protest by the parents since they have announced the revised fees hike. “I would like to make it clear to all schools that government has zero tolerance policy towards the unjust fees hike. I am repeating again that state will not spared them and will not hesitate in taking strict action from cancelling their ‘No objection certificate’ to axing recognition from CBSE,” said Vasudev Devnani, state education minister. The minister has also hinted that in the coming days several schools may get the similar notice suspending their fee hike. 
 
 Several schools in the state have increased the fees misusing the Rajasthan Private School Fees Act. The Act allows a school level committee of 10 members, including five parents to fix the fees. Here state expected the average rise by schools to be around 6%-10%.
 
 The fee hike followed protest by parents and later Congress also joined the bandwagon. Being an election, state is in no mood to face the anger of parents. State showed urgency and directed the district education officers to take serve notices to schools which have increased fees above 15%.
 
 “Clear directions have been issued to DEO to act on every complaint related to fees hike,” said Devnani. State has over 40, 000 private schools which has fixed the fees as per the act. Majority of schools especially affiliated with   (RBSE) have increased fees up to 10% while schools which has flouted norms are affiliated to CBSE.
 
 
