TRICHY: It is indeed a landmark moment for the two-tier city as the   has reached new heights, generating Rs 1 crore from non-biodegradable waste through its hallmark   process

 Operational for the past 9 months now, the project has 20,000 sanitary workers sharing among themselves the revenue generated through selling non-biodegradable waste every week for their door-to-door waste collection job.
 
 Urban Local Body (ULB) has collected 5,621 tonnes of non-biodegradable waste from households across the city over the past 9 months. Recycling the non-biodegradable waste, such as plastic, metal objects and cloths, selling the waste to scrap stores for a price, the civic body has generated a sum of Rs 1.11 crore thus far. The amount will be fairly distributed among the sanitary workers based on their performance (quantity of waste collected).
 
 Since June 2017, Trichy Corporation, first among corporations in the state to promulgate the practice of segregated waste collection right from the source, has been collecting the non-biodegradable waste only on Wednesdays. 
 
 While on other days, only the biodegradable waste were collected in door-to-door waste collection for which exclusive 40 mini load trucks were procured by the ULB. However, since February 2018, the civic body has been collecting biodegradable and non-biodegradable wastes separately from the households every day which has earned the likes of residents.
 
 “We regularised the segregated waste collection process every day. Once the waste was collected, the workers will ensure that they were properly bifurcated at our collection centres and micro compost yard facilities. Later, the waste would be sold to the scrap dealers,” Corporation commissioner   said.
 
 More than 200 scrap dealers have been roped in to collect the potential reusable wastes in return of a price. 
 
 The sanitary workers earn an additional income of Rs 500 to Rs 800 based on the effectiveness of waste collection every week for the works done.
 
 “The additional income we receive through segregated waste collection is an outcome of the struggle we go through each day. Compared to previous years, residents nowadays are accustomed to segregating waste at source,” said P  , a sanitary worker at the civic body for past five years.
 
 
