MUMBAI:   said on Friday that it has completed the acquisition of Bhushan   even as it continues to fight a legal battle with the financially-troubled company’s original promoter. 

 
 The country’s second-largest private sector metal producer has paid Rs 35,200 crore to the creditors of   for a 73% stake in the company, in what is seen as the conclusion of the first among a dozen high-profile cases that are being pushed for resolution under the new Insolvency &   ( ).
 
 The statement from Tata Steel came even as Bhushan Steel’s erstwhile owner Neeraj Singal has challenged the deal at the appellate tribunal and has sought a stay on the transfer of his 22% stake in the company. The matter is up for hearing on May 21. The completion of the acquisition puts the Singals out of the saddle from a company that had acquired the image of a perpetual loan defaulter that put up plants at a cost that was higher than the industry average.
 
  
  
 
 The Tata-Bhushan deal drew immediate celebration from the government, which has forced banks and the RBI to use the new law that seeks time-bound resolution as part of a “clean-up drive” to rid Indian industry of loan defaulters. While cases ranging from Essar Steel and Bhushan Steel and Power to Binani Cement and Jaypee Associates are being fought across judicial forums, the government expects the successful resolution of Bhushan Steel to speed up a decision in other cases too.
 
 “Fifty-three lenders, domestic and international, recover Rs 35,200 crores under IBC — 76% of the outstanding bad debt. The whole process completed in 270 days from admission in  . Creditors to also get upside from a 12% equity stake now in strong hands,” financial services secretary Rajeev Kumar tweeted. Banks had a loan exposure of Rs 56,079 crore to Bhushan Steel.
 
 Compared to the liquidation value of Rs 14,500 crore, the lenders had managed to realise a much higher value, said  , who is officiating as finance minister while Arun Jaitley recuperates from a surgery. “For the first time, such a large loan resolution has been achieved through upfront payment received by banks through sale of a company,” he said. 
 
 Goyal added, “This is a record step towards resolving the legacy of unprecedented amount of bad bank loans inherited by this government.” Goyal credited Prime Minister   and Jaitley for the insolvency resolution plan. He added that lower NPAs will make loans more affordable, especially for MSMEs.
 
 Besides the Rs 35,200 crore, Tata Steel will be paying Rs 1,200 crore to Bhushan Steel’s operational creditors like Larsen & Toubro over a year. Recently, Larsen & Toubro had objected to the deal on the ground that Bhushan Steel owes it Rs 900 crore and wanted it to be treated on a par with financial creditors. But the court had dismissed its petition.
 
 According to the arrangement between the financial creditors and Tata Steel, the former will hold 12% in Bhushan Steel after they convert a part of the debt into equity. Tata Steel has paid another Rs 100 crore to the financial creditors for “novation of remaining financial debt of Bhushan Steel”.
 
 Tata Steel, which has routed the acquisition through its wholly owned subsidiary Bamnipal Steel, will finance the transaction through a mix of debt (Rs 16,500 crore) and equity (Rs 18,700 crore). Bhushan Steel is Tata Steel’s biggest acquisition since Corus in 2007.
 
 While Electrosteel Steels was expected to be the first among the 12 bankruptcy cases to be resolved after potential buyer Vedanta got the tribunal’s nod, the unsuccessful bidder Renaissance Steel challenged Vedanta’s eligibility to take over the ailing company at the appellate tribunal and the case is listed for hearing on May 28.
 
 
