KOHIMA: A day before the declaration of results for the assembly polls, political parties in Nagaland have started hectic parleys on possible permutations and combinations in case there is a fractured mandate. 

 Leaders of the ruling Naga People's Front (NPF), which has a pre-poll alliance with National People's Party (NPP) and JD(U), seem to be divided over accommodating BJP in case there is a hung assembly. BJP, which was an ally of NPF since 2003, severed ties with the latter over differences in sharing in the run-up to the election. Former chief minister Neiphiu Rio's newly floated   (NDPP) allied with BJP and contested in 40 and 20 seats respectively. Rio has already won from the Northern Angami-II seat unopposed.
 
 For BJP, it is essential to be part of the government as it no longer wants to be a 'fringe player' in Nagaland politics, especially when it has put high stakes in the solution to the decades-old Naga problem. If the solution is accomplished with BJP being part of the government, party sources said the saffron party's prospects in the Christian-majority state will increase manifold. 
 
 When asked if BJP will join NPF in case the ruling party seeks its help, state president of the saffron party,  , said, "Our doors are open. It's up to them (NPF) if they want to accommodate us. Our doors are open. But this kind of situation will not arise because NDPP-BJP will get the majority." Given Rio's influence in state politics and rapport with BJP, central leaders of the saffron party found Rio to be the the most viable option to team up with for increasing the party's footprints in the state. NDPP said it will form government with BJP. 
 
 While NPF president and former chief minister Shurhozelie Liezietsu has virtually hinted at having no truck with BJP, a section of leaders within the ruling party favoured inclusion of saffron party MLAs in case the situation arises for government formation. Sources within NPF said even chief minister   is not averse to BJP's inclusion if the situation demands. They said Zeliang had several meetings with central BJP leaders, including general secretary Ram Madhav, but without any results. 
 
 "This is not the time to discuss whether BJP should also be a part in our government formation. BJP left us despite we were together in three successive elections since 2003. It is BJP which walked away from us over seat-sharing differences. BJP used all its might for being in power in the Nagaland polls. As for the NPF-NPP-JD(U) combination, we are confident of forming government this time," said Liezietsu.
 
 He added that NPF had kept its partnership with BJP even when the saffron party won just one seat in the 2013 assembly election. Sources close to Liezietsu said the former chief minister still nurses a grudge against BJP that allegedly played a role in dislodging him and bringing Zeliang for the chief minister's post. 
 
 
