JAIPUR: The campaign for   parliamentary seat has intensified with both the ruling BJP and opposition   putting in their best efforts to woo the voters while allegations of violations of model code of conduct flying thick and fast.

 Rajasthan chief electoral officer Ashwini Bhagat on Saturday held meeting with the political parties and later held meeting with the election observers in Alwar over violations of the code of conduct. He directed the election observers to deal strictly with cases of model code violations.
 
 Following Congress party’s complaint to the Election Commission, it has issued notice to state women’s commission chairperson  . She was accused of campaigning for the BJP candidate at the government Gauri Devi College in Alwar while holding a constitutional post in violation of the code of conduct.
 
 Dr  , a former chairperson of the Union women’s commission said, “Being the chairperson of the state women’s commission, Suman Sharma should not have participated in the election campaign. She had scant regard for constitutional properties,” alleged the Congress leader. 
 
 However, Suman Sharma while talking to TOI said, “The women’s commission chairmanship is not a constitutional post.” She also claimed that she had not received any notice from the Election Commission so far. The Congress also filed a complaint against BJP candidate Dr   Yadav who in a video which had gone viral promising job to 50 youths within five days after elections for canvassing votes enmasse in his favour. It is to be noted that Jaswant Yadav is also a minister in the Raje cabinet holding labour portfolio.
 
 Congress leader Jagdish Beniwal accused the ruling BJP of blatantly violating election model code and misusing official machinery to canvass votes for the ruling party.
 
 Chief minister   is also joining the election campaign in Alwar on Sunday while about half a dozen ministers including party state president are already camping in Alwar while the Congress campaign is mainly spearheaded by former Union minister  . 
 
  Vyas held meeting with party workers on Saturday. She said, the people are fed up with the anti-people policies of the Central and state governments.
 
 
