KOLKATA: The family of property dealer   claimed that only a death penalty for accused Sk   alias   will ensure justice for the family.  , the victim’s brother, said   was killed despite him “offering a settlement and begging for peace on a number of occasions”. 

 “When you kill an innocent man, you must pay with your life,” echoed Fazlur’s widow Salma Bibi alias Ishrat Begum. The family and the neighbours turned up in huge numbers at Alipore court where Bhola was produced, demanding he be hanged. 
 
 Putting up posters asking for severe punishment, the protesters promised Bhola would not be allowed to return to his neighbourhood. “He was once thrown out of the locality when he bombed the area. This time, he has crossed all lines. Even if he secures bail, we will not let him enter Bright Street,” said a resident. Besides the anger, there was also the question of securing the future of the victim’s family, especially his two children 14-year- old Ehtemas Rehman, studying in Class VI in the Seventh- Day Adventist Senior Secondary School and Sadaf Rehaman, 15, a student of Class VII in Park Point school. Fazlur was the eldest among three brothers and has three sisters. 
 
 
  
 “Ishrat had been helping her husband run his office from home. I am sure she might helped Adil out as the financial pressure will fall on him,” another local said. Adil recalled how the family had moved from one government office to another trying to sort out the enmity between Fazlur and Bhola. “We approached   police, we approached Lalbazar and even approached senior political leaders holding important offices at KMC. And yet Bhola audaciously carried a weapon and shot my brother in front of his family in broad daylight. 
 
 The police could have been more proactive,” said Adil. Cops said Bhola returned from Baghdad on Sunday evening and had an argument with Fazlur on Monday evening. “We had tried many times to separate the two men when they were arguing. This is a major shock for us. Today it is Fazlur, tomorrow it might be any one of us,” one of neighbours told TOI. Bhola’s mother-in-law, though, told TOIthat she was aware of criminal traits in her son-inlaw, but thought he had changed for the better.
