CHANDIGARH: Despite instructions for the removal of   at the motor market in Sector 48 almost one and a half years ago, they continue to thrive, said Chandigarh mayor Devesh  . This, he said, is because of the nexus between   staff and vendors encroaching at the motor market.

 Residents of ward number 22 raised the issue of encroachments near the Sector 48 Motor Market.  , a resident of  , Sector 48 said motor mechanics repair vehicles on roads. He asked who allows them the use of a public road for private business. 
 
 The mayor accused the MC department concerned of failing to act. “I shared a plan of action on how to remove encroachments from the motor market with the department concerned and told them to support the issue since I became a mayor but till date, no action has been taken by the department,” he said. 
 
 Moudgil also said corporation officials should realise that the MC is custodian of the land. “These encroachments did not happen overnight, those responsible for it should be aware,” he said, assuring residents of strict action against encroachments and street vendors. He also linked encroachment violations to women’s safety.
 
 “The area in front of the motor market is typically crowded in school hours. I understand that women driving two-wheelers experience difficulty due to lewd comments and prying eyes in the crowd,” he said. 
 
 Residents also expressed concern over the sharp increase in the number of steet vendors. “The sudden increase in numbers presents a security threat to us. In the last six months, few sections of fencing of the society have been damaged,” said  , a resident of Kendriya Vihar, Sector 48.
 
 Elaborating on the Street Vendor Act of 2014 enacted to protect the rights of street vendors and regulate their activities, he said authorities are taking steps to prevent misuse of the provisions.
 
 “We conducted in-depth surveys of street vendors and the number of vendors came down from 25,000 to 9,000 due to the absence of requisite documents. Vendors have now been assigned specific zones of 4 feet by 6 feet area. Probably, 1,000 to 2,000 more will be shut due to area restrictions,” he said.
 
 
