BHOPAL: In the latest bid to end the Ken-Betwa river linkage stalemate, the Centre on Thursday sent the final draft of an MoU to be signed by chief ministers Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Yogi Adithyanath and Union minister of water resources  .

 The project is stuck on water sharing between Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. On January 19, Gadkari had reportedly warned that the this project would be scrapped if the issues were not resolved. “Bundelkhand region is facing severe water crisis and our intention is to accomplish this project at the earliest,” additional chief secretary, water resources, R S Julania told TOI.
 
 Based on MP’s government’s recommendation, the planning for Lower Orr, Bina Complex, Kotha Barrage projects and additional command have been included in the DPR, say sources.
 
 And, based on comments of UP government, repair and strengthening of Barriyarpur pick up Weir, Parichha weir, Barwa Sagar dam along with appurtenant structure and 7.1km long   to carry water from Barwa Sagar to Betwa River upstream of existing Paricha weir have been included.
 
 It’s decided that 1,700 MCM of water would be allotted to UP. “In case of surplus yield, MP shall have all the rights to use the surplus yield. In years of scarcity, after receiving 2,266 MCM for upstream use in MP and deducting quantities for mandatory flows and reservoir losses, remaining water shall be shared by the two states (as per the 2015 agreement),” reads a clause in draft MoU.
 
 MP will be responsible for implementation of Ken Left Bank Canal, which completely lies in the state, and all sub-canals and distribution network for irrigation and other purposes, plus implementation of Kotha Barrage, Bina Complex and Lower Orr. Gadkari, who took over as water resources minister on September 3, had invited Chouhan and Yogi Adityanath for a meeting to settle the issue. Both states have agreed to go by the 2005 agreement signed by the then chief ministers. It has also been decided that Panna will get a share of water for irrigating 70,000 hectares of land. Apart from sharing of water, there was also apparently disagreement between two states over finance and execution of project. It has been decided that the Centre will bear 90% of the cost, while MP and UP will share the rest, said sources.
 
 Earlier UP was pressing for 2,200 MCM water from Ken River as its share, and MP was opposing it on the grounds that the initial deal was for 1,200 MCM only. PMO had to intervene in July-end and asked both states to end stalemate, but to no avail. After Gadkari got additional charge of water resources, he tackled Ken-Betwa imbroglio on a priority basis. Both rivers originate in MP and flow into UP. The Rs 17,000-crore project got all the clearances but is stuck over a sharing of water between the two states.
 
 When Chouhan and Adityanath were asked by the PMO to resolve stalemate, MP government had dug up a 40-year-old agreement — signed during Shyama Charan Shukla government — to say that the deal was to give only 1,200 MCM water to UP, which wants 2,200 MCM.
 
