PANAJI: Before environment consciousness could sweep through Goa, in 2001, an organization made a quiet entry into the state, starting a movement of sorts among school children, making them aware of the biodiversity hotspot, environmentally fragile region they live in.

 Setting up of the branch of the Centre for Environment Education (CEE), a centre of excellence of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC), marked the beginning of systematic environment education in Goa. Over 500 teachers have been trained by the organisation in the state till date.
 
 “Chidren learn of water as H2O in science,” said Sujeet Dongre, programme coordinator for CEE in Goa, who has kept the organisation’s work alive and relevant in the state for the last 17 years. “In geography, they learn about Goa’s and India’s rivers and in history the context may be entirely different. We help teachers connect all these references to water,” he said.
 
 ‘Goa – Land of Treasures’ and ‘Goa Beyond Sun and Sand’ are two of such teacher manuals developed by CEE, detailing the state’s vast biodiversity.
 
  “Every time a teacher comes across any reference to biology in a subject, they are urged to use the relevant information of the parallel animal or geographical phenomenon in Goa,” said Dongre, under whom the   in   (GEEPS) began. A detailed map of Goa’s biodiversity drawn by CEE adorns the walls of schools across the state, telling students at a glance the creatures that reside in the Western Ghats, the midlands, and the coastal region of Goa.
 
 GEEPS saw 10 NGOs training 40 teachers, starting from 2002, making them aware that environmental issues are not just about ecology but also have sociological relevance. 
 
 And along these lines, CEE began a programme in schools in and around Morjim, Mandrem, Galgibaga and Agonda, where students were educated about the turtle nesting that takes place every year on the beaches around them. This effort has given birth to some of the most dedicated volunteers for the turtle conservation effort in Morjim and   locally.
 
 CEE additionally helps bureaucrats understand crucial environment related legislations like the coastal regulation zone norms. “Regulations are not an hindrance to development, but it is just the opposite,” said Dongre, who works with the system with only three other staffers at CEE to push for sustainable development.
 
 
