Thiruvananthapuram: The per-capita capital expenditure of city corporation is greater than that of London as per the results of  , one of the very few components under financial management where the city corporation can feel good about. 

 The civic body scores 9.4 out of 10 in terms of per capita capital expenditure whereas London manages only 8. The only Indian city which has managed 10 out of 10 in per capita capital expenditure is Pune. Apart from this component, city corporation has very few things to cheer about under 14 components which comprise financial management. The city corporation has got full scores under double entry accounting system, constitution of five state finance commissions and adherence to deadlines. 
 
 One key component which has resulted in poor score for corporation is realistic budget. The civic body has scored zero in terms of presenting realistic budget. It has in fact been a case of concern for most of the Indian cities which were surveyed. Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Surat remain the exceptions which have scored 10 in terms of presenting a realistic budget. 
 
 The city corporation has long incurred the after effects of presenting non-viable proposals in state budget often forcing the ruling council to either abandon the projects or to revise them in the plan document. Amusement park at Vilappilsala, multi-level parking facilities at various parts of the city and modern slaughter house have been one among the few instances where finance standing committee presented unrealistic proposals. 
 
 The corporation also records bad scores in percentage of own revenue to total expenditure of urban local body. The civic body scores 3.4 out of 10 under this component, while cities like Mumbai has scored full points under this component. The variance between budgeted income and actual income also reflected badly on corporation between the three fiscals from 2013 to 2016. The percentage variance of corporation ranged between 75.3% to 64.35% during these fiscal years. 
 
 
