CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has set aside one of the conditions mentioned for the selection of trained graduate teachers (TGTs) in Haryana through which it was mandatory for the candidates to qualify the Haryana Teachers Eligibility Test (HTET) in their 'respective subjects.' 

 With these orders, all those who have qualified HTET in mathematics, science and social studies (SS) would be eligible to be selected as TGT in all other subjects.
 
 The selection process for around 1,900 posts of the TGTs, including science, physical education, Urdu, music and home science through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) had come to a standstill because of litigations on the issue pending before the high court. These posts were advertised in 2015.
 
 In his detailed orders released on Wednesday, Justice Rajiv Narain Raina also directed the HSSC to proceed with the selection process to fill the posts of the TGTs in different disciplines and determined the eligibility of the candidates by discarding the concept of 'respective subject' in the advertisement.
 
 "The requisition sent by the state to the HSSC shall stand amended in terms of this judgment and order. If the confusing expression 'respective subject' was introduced by the commission on its own, then these offending words stand quashed," the HC has held.
 
 The matter was pending before the HC in the wake of a few petitions challenging one of the criteria of selection on TGT posts wherein HTET qualification was mandatory for the purposes of appointment as a TGT. The clause under challenge was that candidates should have passed HTET in the 'respective subject for the post applied.'
 
 Contention of the petitioners was that the condition restricting HTET subject-wise is contrary to the guidelines of the National Council for Teacher Education.
 
 It was stated that as per the prospectus of HTET examination, qualifying HTET from School Board of Education, Haryana (SBEH), Bhiwani would be sufficient for consideration for eligibility for appointment of TGTs in subjects other than mathematics, science and social studies and would cover other subjects which were taught in schools in Haryana.
 
 The petitioners were eligible for the posts of English, Hindi, Punjabi, Urdu, art & craft and physical education.
 
 In its advertisement, issued on June 25, 2015, the HSSC had made it clear that only those qualifying HTET in their 'respective subjects' would be eligible for the posts.
 
 The main contentions of the candidates was that since the HTET for TGT is conducted in mathematics, science and social studies, the commission cannot prescribe the condition of HTET in 'respective subject.'
 
 Allowing the petitions, the HC observed that the words 'respective subject' introduced in advertisement are "foreign to the scheme envisaged in the prospectus of the test and are accordingly quashed being in direct conflict with the scheme of HTET."
 
 
