JAIPUR:   launched a newborn hearing screening of children as a regular programme on Thursday. Now, all newborns brought to the hospital will be subjected to hearing assessment. "Newborn hearing screening is helpful in identifying hearing loss at an early stage. More the delay in intervention more will be the difficulty in getting total speech. We have seen children talking in sign language. They could have had a normal life, if the intervention was done at an early age," said Dr  , medical superintendent JK Lon Hospital. 

 
 In children, hearing problems can affect the ability to learn a language. Brett Lee, former Australian cricketer and Cochlear's Global Hearing Ambassador, was also present at JK Lon Hospital on the occasion. Lee said, "When my son was just five, he had a fall on his head that damaged his hearing. He had a natural recovery, luckily escaped from the surgery."
 
 He said that after the incident, he did a lot of research on hearing loss and decided to get involved in it. He said that every sense is important. "If an infant can't hear, we can change that through implant." He emphasised on the need of hearing screening of each infant born. "Early intervention is important," he said giving example of Kerala, taking a lead in newborn hearing screening. "I would love to see hospitals in the state do the same," he said.
 
 Advocating universal newborn hearing screening (UNHS), former Australian cricketer Brett Lee said that   can help identify and address hearing loss. Dr S Sitaraman, head of the department (paediatrics), JK Lon Hospital said, "We have otoacoustic emission machines at JK Lon Hospital. The machine is useful in diagnosis of hearing loss among infants too. As of now, we were using the machines on infants born with high risk. In Kerala, hearing screening is done, which shows that 6.5% of infants tested had hearing loss." 
 
 Dr  , associate professor, department of Otorhinolaryngology (ENT),   said, "Hearing loss can hinder growth and learning development in a child. UNHS can help recognise indications of hearing disability. That makes treatment possible in the crucial years of a child's development- as early as six months. We have hearing implants to restore hearing ability." 
 
