At an event in the city,   and   based fitness model and entrepreneur  , hosted a session on  . 

 It was an event that busted many myths. London-based fitness model and entrepreneur Ninu Galot and Nawaz Modi Singhania, founder of a chain of fitness centres in Mumbai and recipient of the ‘Wellness Icon of the year 2017’ by a spa group, recently hosted an event on Vitiligo. 
 
 In support of those suffering from vitiligo, Nawaz, Ninu and dermatologist Maya Tulpule and  , the Voice of Vitiligo, teamed up to speak about the condition, encouraging and creating awareness among afflicted self-conscious patients and their families and how a healthy lifestyle including exercise, good nutrition and adequate sleep, can help boost ones immunity playing a positive role in managing vitiligo. 
 
 Ninu, a vitiligo patient herself, commented, “When I decided to do a fitness competition back in London, it helped to raise awareness about vitiligo. The support I got from family and friends was admirable. I found a change in everyone around me and found a lot of support while going through my challenges. Many who didn't know I was suffering with vitiligo, saw me as someone who had everything; a confident and successful business woman. However within, I wasn't happy, smiling for people around me. But now I am smiling for ‘Me’, as I've set myself free by being open about it. Over a period of time, I began realising that people loved me for who I was. The only person who didn't love me, was me."
  
  
  
 
 Nawaz said, “Instead of taking the usual path vitiligo afflicted patients take of being embarrassed and going under cover, Ninu went the other way and decided to come out with it, be honest and actually talk about it extensively and create a support system, both in the UK and in India. As a fitness expert, it made great sense for me to talk about the importance that fitness, health, a good lifestyle, adequate nutrition, immunity building, adequate sleep, hydration etc. all have on this skin condition and how Vitiligo can even be managed to a large extent. I have been working hard to create awareness among those afflicted by the condition, along with their families, to better handle the skin condition. Going forward it is in my endeavour to work with those affected by Vitiligo, to help them bring out the positives in their lives.” 
 
 
 
