BHOPAL: The BJP has roped in   in   where the party has given the slogan, 'get two MLAs for electing one'. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, had in a recent election meeting announced to work as MLA of Kolaras, if the BJP candidate wins the seat.

 As the campaigning for the bypoll intensifies, BJP leaders along with a galaxy of ministers arrived Kolaras and Mungaoli on Friday to fade away the influence of Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia in the region. BJP has roped in Yashodhara Raje to campaign for party candidate Devendra Jain.
 
 The party has also recalled the contribution of late Vijayaraje Scindia, who had played key role in laying the BJP's foundation and development of the region. 
 
 "We want to remind Rajmata Scindia's contribution to the public. Her daughter and cabinet minister Yashodhara Raje is supporting party's candidate Devendra Jain and campaigning in the constituency to confront anti-BJP publicity by the Congress", said BJP MLA and campaign in-charge, Rameshwar Sharma. 
 
 The party is promising voters of two public representatives if its candidate Jain win the election. Apart from Jain, chief minister Chouhan would work for the constituency as an MLA and he himself had promised during election meetings.
 
 Senior BJP leader and union minister Narendra Singh Tomar also addressed public meetings in village Karya, Kumhoura, Rajgarh and Padora in Kolaras assembly, on Friday. Tomar said that Congerss claims of 250 old relations between the public and Scindia clan have fallen flat on development front.
 
 As BJP leaders have intensified campaigning, party state president Nandkumar Singh Chauhan, ministers Bhupendra Singh, Lalsingh Arya, Rustam Singh, Vishwas Sarang, Narottam Mishra among others are camping in the area with senior BJP leaders. 
 
 In Mungaoli, BJP candidate Baisaab Yadav has launched foot-march for door-to-door meeting with the voters. Party's national vice president Prabhat Jha and Vinay Sahasrabuddhe are also reaching Mungaoli and Kolaras to address public meetings.
 
 
