Tirupur: At a time when government schools are seeing more dropouts than admissions, a weaver here is working towards bolstering the thinning strength of his alma mater - a 75-year-old government school at Udumalpet. Meet V Neelamegan of Malayandipattinam, who has started the campaign Thiruvalluvar Kalvi Iyakkam (Thiruvalluvar education movement) to mobilise locals to renovate the Panchayat Union Primary School at Malayandipattinam and sensitise parents to send their children to government schools, instead of private ones. To set an example for the villagers, Neelamegan, 38, withdrew his son from a private school and admitted him to the government school two years ago. “Private schools today are more like factories which suck money out of people. They do not allow children to develop self-thinking and as a result the children hardly get to know anything about the real world. I realised it late, but once I did, I withdrew my son from the private school he was studying in and enrolled him in the elementary school, where my father and I had studied,” he says. Neelamegan stresses that unlike private schools, a government school helps a child learn basic values and understand the small joys of life. “Be it sharing a chocolate among schoolmates or the dedication and concern of teachers towards students, we learned these lessons at the elementary school.” Neelamegan, however, could study only up to Class VIII due to acute poverty. His own failure to complete studies, in a way inspires him create awareness among parents to send their wards to school. At present, his focus is on restoring the lost glory of his old school. The student strength of the elementary school has today nosedived to a mere 45 from more than 400 in the 1990s and around 200 in the 1980s. The school does not have basic amenities like purified drinking water, benches and sports equipment. It is currently run by a headmaster incharge and two teachers, who shuttle between classes I and V. “As part of Thiruvalluvar Kalvi Iyakkam, we have been telling villagers not to send their wards to private schools within a 3km radius. It is difficult for middle class families to save money to send their children to school. Many end up borrowing money and the debts keep growing. We instead request them to admit their children to the government school and tell them that we could improve its facilities with public contribution,” Neelamegan says. Neelamegan and other locals have approached business establishments for help. “One of the traders in the village has donated money to upgrade our village library and I am sure more will offer help for the school,” he says. In a success, two of Neelamegan’s friends have enrolled their children in the government school in the past two years. Neelamegan plans to take out a rally and conduct a door-to-door campaign on Wednesday to create awareness on his mission.