PUDUCHERRY: Four years after a pawnbroker from Rajasthan was murdered and 7.5kg gold jewels worth Rs 1.3 crore looted from his shop in the Union territory, police on Saturday arrested three men for their involvement in the crime.

 The arrested were identified as K Gopi alias Gopinath, 30, of Tiruvarur district, U Arun alias Arul Kumar, 30, and J Jothi alias Suyam Jothi, 29, of Thattanchavady. The three are load carrier drivers. Police have launched a hunt for Gopi’s uncle Gokulakrishnan, who helped the trio in selling and pledging the stolen valuables.
 
 Deputy director general of police (law and order) Rajiv Ranjan said the tactful interrogation of the   (STF), which revisited the crime scene and re-examined witnesses, helped narrow down to the three load carrier drivers.
 
 One of the drivers, Gopi, was working in a cement godown adjacent to the   of Radhe Shyam Dhoot, 50, of Rajasthan, and knew of the routine and movements of the pawnbroker.
 
 The arrested suspects desired to become wealthy overnight and conspired to loot the pawnshop for it. As per their plan, Jothi pledged a piece of gold jewel in the pawnshop on April 4, 2014, by furnishing false name and address.
 
 The next day, around 8am, Jothi and Arun went to the shop to redeem the jewel. When Radhe Shyam went into the   room to fetch the jewel, the duo gained entry into the room and attacked him brutally with knives. The pawnbroker sustained severe injuries in his neck and stomach and died on the spot. The two then robbed some of the gold jewels from the lockers and sped away in a car.
 
 Gokulakrishnan helped them pledge the jewels in banks and in selling them in various jewellery shops. They sold a part of the stolen jewels to a few shops after melting the jewels. 
 
 Gopi absconded from his workplace and settled in his native place Tiruvarur after the loot. He had also purchased a lorry and was running a bakery in his uncle’s name. Arun had also purchased a lorry and a luxury car and was leading a lavish life. Jothi and Gokulakrishnan also led luxurious lives using what they made of the loot. 
 
 The sudden change in their lifestyle created suspicion and the STF closely monitored their movements for several months and nabbed them after gathering adequate evidence against them. Ranjan said the police are taking efforts to recover gold jewels worth Rs 30 lakh that were pledged in several banks and jewellery shops.
 
 The broad daylight   of the pawnbroker and   of his shop in the heart of the town had sent shock waves across the Union territory. Delay in narrowing down on the suspects got the rumour mill going and allegations were rife from several quarters. 
 
 The Pondicherry Chamber of Commerce had charged that the policemen who inspected the pawnshop after the murder stole gold jewels while All India Bar of Advocates’ Welfare Association alleged that police had started harassing innocent people to admit to the murder and looting after failing to nab the suspects. 
 
 Forums had also questioned how the culprits managed to escape with gold valuables when police and revenue officials had been detaining people carrying more than Rs 10,000 during election time.
 
 
