BHOPAL: A 21-year-old Class 12 pass unemployed youth took job aspirants for a ride by making a fake portal using a name similar to a state government website. Introducing himself as district employment officer on the website, he allegedly duped several jobseekers on pretext of providing them job and business opportunities. 

 The accused was earning money from victim jobseekers and also received online ad revenue as victims used to visit his website number of times to check their status. The state cyber cell arrested the accused on basis of complaint filed by a Sehore-based man, who was duped to the tune of Rs 55,000 by the accused in name of helping him get a gas agency.
 
 Investigation officer   said victim Arpit  , a resident of   in Sehore filed a complaint with cyber cell on November 16, 2017. He came across the website www.mprojgar.net on which   had introduced himself as district employment officer. After   registered himself on website for a new business, he fell in his trap. 
 
 Rai said Hanote contacted Dubey, claiming his elder brother was state head in a government gas agency. He lured him assuring that he would help him get a gas agency for his area and fraudulently took Rs 55,000 from him. A fraud case was registered under the IPC and IT Act on his complaint. When it was found accused Mukesh Hanote, 21, a resident of  , was operating the website, he was arrested and interrogated.
 
 During interrogation, Hanote told police he came to the city in search of job in August 2017 and started working at a salary of Rs 6,000 per month as a peon in a firm which was into website development. 
 
 He requested his employer and got a website designed by name www.mprojgar.net on which he introduced self as employment officer. He posted his contact number and email on website through which he used to contact victims. He also provided an online payment gateway on website. Those, who used to come across website mistook it as a government website due to its name. He used to charge registration fees from victims and earned through online advertisements.
 
 
