GURUGRAM: Another day, another referral patient and another   in  .

 
 A 26-year-old woman gave birth to a baby boy on way to Delhi after doctors at Civil Hospital referred her to Delhi’s   hospital on Friday night — the second such incident this week.
 
 On Wednesday, a 29-year-old woman delivered a stillborn in an ambulance after doctors at the government healthcare facility sent her off to Delhi apparently because of some complications.
 
 Gurugram civil surgeon Dr BK Rajora had been “chargesheeted”, and one doctor had been terminated while two others have been suspended in the case.
 
 In the latest incident, the woman, a resident of Arjun Nagar, and her newborn were lucky to survive the agony trip. Sources said the woman had a normal delivery with the help of an emergency medical technician in the ambulance, near Sirhaul border around 9.20pm. Later, the mother and the baby were taken to Safdarjung hospital, where doctors said both were stable.
 
 The woman, who was 32 weeks into pregnancy, had come to the Gurugram general hospital around 8pm on Friday. But Dr Alka Sharma, who was on duty then, referred her to Safdarjung, apparently due to lack of facilities to carry out a C-section at night.
 
 According to the referral letter (a copy of which is with TOI), the patient was not carrying report of any recent ultrasound scan and it was not possible to conduct an ultrasound on her at the hospital at night. Further, the patient was anaemic and she was having a child for the second time. On the first occasion, she had a caesarean baby, claimed sources at the hospital. The woman and her family could not be contacted for a comment.
 
 Pradeep Sharma, the principal medical officer, confirmed a patient had given birth to a child in an ambulance after being referred to Delhi. But he refused to say anything more, saying he did not have the details of the case.
 
 On Saturday, state health minister Anil Vij, in a statement, said Gurugram civil surgeon Dr BK Rajora had been chargesheeted, and one doctor had been terminated while others have been suspended in the wake of the 29-year-old woman delivering a stillborn in an ambulance on Wednesday. “Even though the civil hospitals have all modern facilities, doctors refer patients, even in cases like pregnancy, which shows they are not serious about their duties,” Vij said during an event in Ambala Cantt.
 
 Rajora did not respond to phone calls for a comment.
 
