KOLKATA : Telecom engineer Meghmallar Das had no other option on Tuesday but to borrow Rs 2,500 from a friend for a root canal treatment after a futile attempt to withdraw money from several ATMs. On Tuesday, this was the story for many people, ahead of the two-day   strike on May 30 and 31.

 
 A large number of ATMs went dry on Tuesday following panic withdrawals from customers. Almost 25% of the 11,800-odd ATMs were out of cash across the state as customers withdrew more cash than they usually do. This has assumed signficance because the total cash transaction per day through ATMs in the state is around Rs 6,500 crore, out of which 55%-60% (around Rs 4,000 crore), is done in Kolkata. Incidentally, the two-day strike, called by the United Forum of Bank Unions ( ) protesting against a miniscule hike in salary, may paralyse ATM services as well.
 
 
  
 
 Sandipa Bose, a software engineer, said: “On my way to office, I stopped over at four ATMs, but none of them had cash. I desperately needed the money to pay for something I had bought online. Finally, I had to borrow the money from a colleague.” Teacher   had a similar experience. “I went to three ATMs and all were running dry. I needed cash to buy some stationery products, but I had to defer the plan. I asked my husband to get the stuff on his way back from office. But even he said that the ATMs near his office were running dry,” she added.
 
 A senior SBI official said withdrawals on Tuesday were more than usual, but the bank is replenishing cash in most of the ATMs to ensure that there’s no cash crunch over the next two days. SBI has 3,800 ATMs in the state. However, he indicated that if the employees on strike close down ATMs, the bank cannot do much. SBI, along with some other PSU banks, have already issued circulars saying that respective bank branches should try to ensure that ATMs remain operational. SBI chief general manager Partha Pratim Sengupta said ATMs were being loaded with enough cash.
 
 An official of HDFC Bank, which has over 400 ATMs in the state, also said it was putting in extra cash. But little could be done if the protesting workers close down the ATMs, he indicated. However, Bengal Provincial Bank Employees Association (BPBEA) general secretary   said the ATMs were running dry because the entire service was now being outsourced by the banks. “The agencies have no idea about the cash demand at a particular ATM,” he added.
 
 Ashok Mukherjee, a former deputy chief secretary of the SBI Staff Association, pointed out that considering the plight of common man, ATMs in hospitals will not be affected. He argued that the strike was justifed because banks did not revise the salary despite increase in business per employee.  , secretary of the All India Bank Officers Confederations, argued that basic pay of officers was much less compared to central government officials.
 
 
  
 
 
