GURUGRAM:   will develop a market, which will have around 128 shops, in Sector 31 on the lines of Delhi’s   market, but it will be open only during the day. Sources in the development authority said these shops would be leased out to street vendors.

 Located on the Delhi-Gurgaon expressway, neighbouring Sector 31 has one such market which has shops and offices. The new day market for which Huda has identified half-an-acre land has around 30 trees. The authority has requested the horticulture department to transplant these trees before the development work starts.
 
 The town vending committee had identified several places in city, including Sector 31, to rehabilitate street vendors. “The shops will be given on a temporary basis till further development,” estate officer-II of Huda Vivek   said, adding that the reserve price for the shops have not been fixed yet.
 
 The move is aimed at utilising the land to help vendors who cannot afford to purchase shops in Huda sector market, and thereby preventing encroachment across the city. “Shops and office space in the sector market are bigger in size and they cost crores. This day market will have small shops of 6X4 square feet, and they are expected to cost less,” official said, adding that small traders would also able to purchase shops in this market.
 
 Reeling under financial crisis, Huda is trying to monetise its properties. For this, the authority is conducting e-auction of commercial sites on a regular basis. In last one and half years, Huda has generated nearly Rs 2,000 crore by auctioning plots. Till now, Huda has been selling shop-cum-office (SCO), shops and kiosks in the market area, but has been struggling to find buyers. “One SCO in Sector 29 costs around Rs 35 crore, which is too much for small traders. Hence, only a few came forward for the bid,” said the official, adding that now they were experimenting with developing small shops.
 
 A Huda official, however, claims to have received good responses to the agency’s e-auction. Justifying the authority’s claim, the official said in between April 2016 and July 2017, Huda raised around Rs 924.68 crore from the auction of properties against the reserve price of Rs 737.97 crore. “We received Rs 200 crore above our reserve price for Huda’s properties,” he said. A few months ago, Huda has managed to sell a 10-acre commercial plot to an   for Rs 845 crore.
 
 Huda has to pay more than Rs 11,000 crore to land owners, whose plots were acquired by the urban development authority, but compensation has not been paid. Besides this, Huda needs several thousands of crores for completing several ongoing development projects, particularly the development of civic amenities in new sectors.
 
 The development authority also is trying to get funds from the government or loan from banks for development work. “We have lot of land in prime areas of the city and it can help in raising fund,” said the official.
 
 
