LUCKNOW: Its pages have turned a pale yellow with the passage of time, and are in between stained with   in food once foreign to the Indian platter, but every time the book’s page is flipped, a whiff of French cuisine tickles the senses in a language close to the heart and part of   and heritage.

 Perhaps the only cookbook of French cuisine written in Urdu 99-years-ago ‘Luqma Laziz Bara-e-Farang’ by Syed Ahmad Ali Ambalavi has found its way back into limelight, and will be a part of the Sanatkada festival beginning from February 2. The book’s present custodian, Noor Khan, now plans to translate the unique work — written in conversational style between a master cook and his juniors — from Urdu into English, making the French recipes accessible to more food-lovers.
  
  
 
  With over 450 recipes spread over 13 chapters, with each name written in French first and then in Urdu, and a free flowing prose-style recipe description of the cuisine, the book Khan says landed in her hands just by chance. “It belonged to my family ‘khansama’ (chef) Nizamuddin who gave it to me as a gift six years back, just ayear before his death. It had come to him from his mentor, not just in cooking but in life too, who also served our family and was called Syed Sahab. Where did it come from no one knows,” said Khan, principal of Karamat Husain Girls PG College.
 
 “This clearly shows that against the popular conception, chefs and cooks at that time too did use cookbooks. The presence of French recipes shows that like French influence on art, architecture, literature and culture, it was there on our cuisine also. 
 
 Since the language used is our own Urdu, it proves that there must have been local curiosity in French cuisine.” Khan says she finds many a similarity in preparations and ingredients of Awadhi and  . “It has a unique style, where the master cook seems to be talking to cooks, giving instructions every now and then. 
 
 Most recipes end with direction: ‘Ab mez pe bhejho‘ (Send it out to the table now),” she said. The same words, Khan says she can recall hearing in her childhood when sitting on dining table, as the door to kitchen opened and shut. “I remember eating   and all kinds of souffles, especially  , at home during my childhood,” she said.
 
