CHANDIGARH: A brief spell of rain has exposed the claims of the municipal corporation officials and the other authorities about civic arrangements at the Sector-26  , which along with the fruit market is dotted with garbage and dust. The market authorities claim that the area is cleaned twice a day. 

 The garbage bins are almost overflowing and even the space outside the shops is littered with leftovers. Rotting   and   seems to be scattered on the road. During a visit to the grain market on Tuesday, the TOI team found few of the shopkeepers dumping rotten tomato and potato in the open and on the streets. Due to this, the passersby and customers looking for vegetables and fruits were facing a lot of problems. The market's roadsides were full of dirt, junk material, and garbage.
 
 Some of the vendors had pitched their carts on the muddy patches and their vegetables and fruits witnessed had dirt all over. And many people were buying these items, too. To the naked eye, these items seemed injurious to health. The loading and unloading of trucks was in progress on the main road inside the market, which had jammed this passage. 
 
 Vegetable peels flies into the eyes of the customers and commuters. Even many of the shopkeepers sitting in the ground were found to be uncomfortable because of the stinking environment they had created themselves. Dustbins in the market had not been emptied in days. Most of these were either broken or not in a usable condition. Encroachment around the main gate and the inside main road was rampant. Rows and rows of trucks occupied the middle of the road. The other vehicles didn't have space to even squeeze past.
 
 Sector-26 grain market secretary M K Sharma said: "Every day, we collect garbage in the trollies. This problem recurs after every spell of rain and we had been facing it for the past many years. All problems stem from the disorderly traffic. One of the alternatives is to shift the grain market to Sector 39. Because of the crowd, we are unable to collect waste from each corner. This waste is dumped outside the city. The marked generates waste in bulk indeed."
 
 Bablu, a shopkeeper at the grain market, said: "This market is cleaned twice a day but most of the shopkeepers chuck their waste on to the road and litter the interior areas as well. Even though they are responsible for the problem, most of the big shopkeepers do not accept their responsibility or behave in a disciplined manner."
 
 The customers at the market attributed many problems to all the dirt, garbage, and unpleasant smell generated from the place. Sector 28 resident Sheetal Chaturvedi said: "The market doesn't have toilet facilities. The MC officials and the market committee have not taken appropriate steps for the improvement of civic facilities in the area."
 
 
