Coimbatore: Though IT (information technology) stocks lost ground during trading on Monday, the sector has emerged as the best performer on the bourses in 2018. 

 While markets have slipped in the past few weeks, stocks in the IT pack have made a smart recovery after the fall last year following slow growth and uncertainties over immigration policies in the US.
 
 IT was the surprise package of the earnings season during the third quarter (Q3) of 2017-18. In all, 11 out of 16 IT companies, mostly tier-2 IT firms, exceeded expectations on net profits, analysts tracking the sector said. Both the BSE IT index and mutual funds that invest in IT scrips have topped the performance charts so far this year. 
 
 While the BSE IT index has gained 9.8% so far in 2018, MFs that invest in IT stocks have recorded more than 9% growth. The IT index has retained its top spot in the performance chart despite posting a 1.1% drop on Monday. 
 
 The benchmark Sensex and broad-based Nifty have remained flat during 2018. Most stock indices including the best performing ones in the market rally such as mid-caps and small-caps have seen a decline during the year.
 
 “IT stocks were undervalued. Since these stocks were beaten down, a re-rating was overdue,” said Dhiraj Relli, managing director (MD) and CEO, HDFC Securities. “The rupee depreciation and the overall market fall has helped IT stocks,” said G Chokkalingam, founder and MD, Equinomics Research and Advisory.
 
 Several tier-2 IT vendors have been on a strong growth trajectory. These IT firms have seen a double digit year-on-year growth in revenues during the third quarter (Q3). “Mid-sized IT companies reskilled themselves well,” Relli said.
 
 “Q3 was yet another quarter of (profit) margin surprise. Headcount reduction and further leveraging of utilisation resulted in efficiency improvement. Margin uptick, despite unfavorable rupee-dollar movement, was a reason for delight,” analysts at Motilal Oswal Securities said.
 
 IT majors TCS and Infosys reported a 10 bps (0.1%) improvement in operating profit margins during Q3 despite the seasonal weakness that is typically associated with the quarter. While the TCS stock has increased 12.8% so far in 2018, the Infosys scrip has recorded 9.7% growth.
 
 
