Trichy: Eviction notices have been served on 22 shops at the the Sri Ranganathaswamy temple in Srirangam by the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department. The shops are located in three stone halls (mandapams) outside the temple complex. Besides safety of pilgrims, the decision was said taken as part of the renovation process in the temple.

 Traffic congestion owing to encroachments and poor infrastructure often affects the movement of the visitors, that number at least 50,000 per day, to the temple. 
 
 Among the three major gateways to access the island, entry through Mambalasalai and Ammamandapam attracts more number of devotees. Despite being the most accessed gateway, encroachments and haphazard parking on Ammamandapam main road remains a long standing hurdle. 
 
 Among the plethora of encroachments, HR&CE sources said that as many as 22 shops were established in 16 pillar stone hall and a couple in the four pillar stone halls situated opposite to the Rajagopuram on Ammamandapam main road. Reportedly managed by one of the former trustees of Srirangam temple and to whom the rent of the shops is said to be paid, about seven stalls in the 16 pillar stone hall often chokes the movement of people and vehicles entering and exiting via Rajagopuram.
 
  “The shops situated in 16 pillar stone hall allow their visitors to park vehicles on the road which affects the free movement of cars heading to the temple. Such shops occupying the stone halls should be removed to free the persisting congestion,” said, S N Mohanram, president, Srirangam Makkal Nalasangam. 
 
 Besides affecting the movement of pilgrims, the shops were blamed for the prolonged delay in expanding the width of Ammamandapam road. Meanwhile, as the management of Sri Ranganathaswamy temple has planned to renovate all the stone halls, sources said that notices were served to 22 shops situated outside temple complex on Monday. 
 
 R Govindaraju, a retired government employee, said that temple management should not stop just by forwarding the notice but should also act to solve the purpose. 
 
 When contacted, P Jayaraman, Joint-Commissioner, HR&CE Srirangam said that the shops occupying the stone halls have been marring the architectural beauty of the 72m tall Rajagopuram. “Gradually we will evict the stalls set up under 16 pillar and four pillar stone halls opposite to Rajagopuram. Similarly, after clearing the legal hurdles, about 33 shops established in the temple complex premises will be served notices before going for eviction drive.”
 
 
