GREATER NOIDA: Manveer Singh  , the man who rallied farmers and spearheaded the violent uprising against land acquisition in   in 2011, was on Tuesday arrested in Dankaur, five years after he walked out of prison on bail.

 The   had issued a non-bailable warrant against Tevatia in December last year for not appearing before it in cases related to the 2011 violence in which four persons, including two cops, died.
 
 Farmood Ali Pundir, SHO of Dankaur police station, said, “Tevatia had been hiding at different locations. He had not appeared before court despite several notices. On Monday night, we received information he would be visiting his flour mill at Site 5 in  . We sent a team and he was arrested around 11 pm,” he said. Tevatia was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.
 
 Tevatia, who is from Gulawti in Bulandshahr, is facing charges for instigating farmers, rallying anti-social elements, providing arms, kidnapping government officers, leading the mob which clashed with police and rioting under various sections of the IPC.
 
 Tewatia made national headlines when he led the anti-land acquisition agitation in the two Gautam Budh Nagar villages on May 6 and 7, 2011. Villagers had already been protesting against the   government’s (then in power in UP) land acquisition drive. The violence erupted after local farmers held hostage government officials in a UPSRTC bus that had gone there to conduct a survey of the village land on May 7, 2011.
 
 Police rushed to the village but the protesters turns restive and fired at the cops, resulting in the death of two policemen. In retaliatory fire by the police, two protesters were killed. District magistrate Deepak Kumar also suffered bullet injuries in his leg. 
 
 The state government deployed around 2,000 police personnel in the village and arrested several persons to crush the protest.
 
 Tevatia had managed to escape and hid in Noida and Delhi for two months before being eventually arrested by the special operations group of UP Police from Delhi’s Hauz Khas on July 9, 2011. 
 
 Tewatia spent around nine months in jail and was later released on bail.
 
 
