Kota: Kota police on Thursday arrested a 26 year youth a resident of Delhi from a hotel in Goa for assaulting a businessman in Kota. Police also seized the car used for the crime. The accused was today produced before the court that ordered him for a three day remand in police custody.

 Two unidentified assailants with masked faces on Feb. 7 attacked a Kota based businessman Gourav Jhunjhunuwala (26), a resident of Vigyan Nagar police station area of Kota city while he was standing by a roadside stall near Dakaniya railway station, Vigyan Nagar police told. The two assailants had reached the spot by a red color sports car of which number plate was covered and fled away after the attack by the same vehicle.
 
 Following the report by the victim, police teams were formed to look into the matter, the police said adding since the two accused were masked faces and the vehicle number plate was also covered, police teams collected the CCTV footages of next 24 hours of crime from around 40 places including the toll plazas. The two accused, following the investigation, were traced in Delhi but by the time police team reached Delhi to nab them, they had fled, the police said. Later, location of one of the two accused was traced in Mapusa in Goa, they said and added the accused identified as Ravendra Kumar Jat (37), a resident of Delhi was on Thursday arrested from a hotel in Goa. The other accused, identified as Vishal Singh, also a resident of Delhi is yet to be nabbed, they said. Police also recovered the red color sports car used in the crime in Kota, the police said.
 
 In the initial interrogation, Ravendra Kumar Jat revealed that they were contracted for an attack over Jhunjnuwala by a businessman, the police said adding the indentify and whereabouts of the businessman who contracted the two assailants for attack over the businessman in Kota is yet to be interrogated from the accused.
 
 The accused youth was today produced before the court that ordered to hand him over to the police custody for three day remand, the police said.
 
 
