PATNA: The state government would pay old age pension to around 27 lakh of the total 56 lakh listed beneficiaries not covered by the Centre’s  , chief minister   announced in the assembly on Tuesday. “The budgetary allotment has been made for the 2018-19 fiscal,” he said. 

 The CM intervened in the government’s reply by social welfare department minister Manju Verma to a starred question of   member   who pointed out that the old age pensioners were moving from pillar to post without any solution to their problems.
 
 Pandey, along Bhola Yadav and Maheshwar Yadav of the   and Satyadeo Ram from the CPI (ML), complained that the listed beneficiaries had valid bank accounts, but the old age pension money was not being transferred to their accounts. Besides, the bankers have been raising queries unnecessarily, they added.
 
 As the minister’s reply failed to convince the House, the CM clarified that the money was being transferred into their accounts, but it was not the total Rs1,000 per month. “I also came across such complaints during my recent yatra across the state and also from the MLAs participating in the district-level meetings,”   said.
 
 He said the state has around 56 lakh listed old age pensioners, but the Centre maintained that it would pay the money to only 29 lakh of them. In the situation, the beneficiaries were not getting the full amount, he added.
 
 “I had a high-level review meeting over the matter. Now we have decided to pay the old age pension money to the remaining 27 lakh from the state government’s fund,” the CM said.
 
 Single-teacher schools: With respect to the short-notice question of BJP member Sanjay Sarawagi that each of the 1,500 primary schools in the state had only single teacher, the CM said the education department has been directed to “rationalize” the distribution and presence of teachers in the schools. The department has been asked to quickly depute more than one teacher in each of the 1,500 single-teacher primary schools, so that teaching activities are conducted properly, he added. 
 
 
