PUNE: The district administration has prohibited rain dance events at clubs, hotels and water resorts during this year’s   and Rangpanchami celebrations on March 1, 2 and 6. 

 This is for the third year in a row that the administration has imposed the prohibition to ensure that water is not wasted in the run-up to summer. 
 
 Pune district collector Saurabh Rao told TOI that the administration has directed the excise department, which issues a day’s drinking permit, and the police, who provide licences for using sound systems, to check if the order is followed. 
 
 “We have advised all clubs and hotels to not allow rain dance for any event. This will be the pre-condition for organizing events,” the collector said.
 
 The excise department will verify the pre-condition with the organisers before issuing the permits. Excise department (Pune) superintendent Mohan Varde said they would be checking through their squads and informers if any hotel or club was organizing rain dances. 
 
 Ganesh Shetty, president of the   and  , said there should not be any wastage of water. “We will request all our 850 members to follow the advisory. We will also find out with the collector if recycled water can be used for rain dance,” he said, adding that at least 15 events have been lined up for Holi celebrations. 
 
 The collector has also issued orders to the municipal corporation, sub-divisional officer Haveli, tehsildar, Pune city and the irrigation and police departments to keep a watch on the   reservoir and ensure that the revellers did not not enter the dame and make its water dirty during the three days of celebrations. 
 
 The orders have been issued under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code. “Holi revellers are often found entering the reservoir. This should be stopped. We do not want any such activity ahead of summer. The aim is to keep the sole reservoir supplying water to the city clean,” Rao said. 
 
 Pandurang Shelar, executive engineer of the irrigation department, said the storage of the four dams ahead of summer is at 55%, which is 3% more than what was last year. The total storage of the four dams is now 16.10 TMC as against 15.26 TMC during the corresponding period last year.
 
 
