NEW DELHI: Moving either the high court or the Supreme Court seems to be the only remedy available to the disqualified   legislators. For long recognised as a part of the ‘basic structure doctrine’ of the Constitution, the power of judicial review is expected to kick in as and when Sunday’s decision of President Ram Nath Kovind is legally challenged by the disqualified MLAs.

 Although such a move appears inevitable,   are   of its chances, given that Election Commission, in its 60-page order communicated to the President, has extensively dealt with most of the grounds raised by the ex-MLAs in a clinical fashion.
 
 The first platform available is the Delhi high court where Justice Rekha Palli is expected to resume hearing on Monday on an application by the then MLAs challenging the EC communication. As the President has now endorsed EC’s ruling, lawyers say, the petition has become “infructuous” unless the court allows an amendment of the plea to raise a bigger constitutional challenge to include Sunday’s order.
 
 Former Lok Sabha secretary general Subhash Kashyap sees a dim chance of a legal assault on the presidential order. “The facts are so clearly against them — well laid precedents of the Supreme Court rulings are present — that I doubt if any court will interfere with such a well reasoned order. Need for an oral hearing arises where some facts have to be clarified or more information is required. In this case, documents show public money was spent on them and they derived benefits by exercise of executive powers,” Kashyap told TOI.
 
 A senior jurist pointed out that AAP had failed to realise that the office of profit issue didn’t depend on salaries or perks but on the breach of a fixed cap on how many MLAs can be part of a government. “Just five days after Prashant Patel’s petition, the government tried to pass a law to protect them. It looked more like a cover-up,” he explained. “In other states, such laws have been enacted decades ago to give protection. Even then, the high courts of Calcutta and Punjab & Haryana have struck down appointments.” 
 
 But former Solicitor General Mohan Parasaran saw a loophole in failure of EC to grant oral hearings and intimate a proper date. “EC being an original authority under the Constitution, should have allowed oral submissions. In many cases when you appear in person and try to convince, at least one of the members may see your point — lost in written submissions — and he may even change his view or persuade others.” 
 
 He pointed out that “even in service matters, the persons have the valuable right of being heard. Then how can you deny right of oral hearing to a democratically elected representative?”
 
 
