NAGPUR: City schools are unhappy with the CBSE timetable for STD XII saying it could have been ‘spaced out’ much better. Big ticket papers like English and Physics have just a single day gap while many optional subjects across streams are being held on consecutive days. 

 On Wednesday, CBSE shifted its STD XII physical education (PE) paper from April 9 to 13 but schools are unhappy that status quo is being maintained for the rest. 
 
 Anmol  , principal of Jain International School, said, “The JEE is scheduled for April 8 and CBSE slots PE on April 9, even though many students appear for both the exams. Considering that CBSE itself conducts JEE, this problem should not have occurred in the first place.” 
 
 A CBSE official told TOI that JEE was the reason for shifting the PE exam by a couple of days. The official did not comment on why this problem was not noticed at the timetable planning stage itself. Badjatia added that many students take PE to increase their overall marks. 
 
 Shilpee Ganguly, principal of CPS Katol Road, said, “This timetable is not suitable for students because History and Math are on consecutive days, and Humanities students do opt for the latter. Also Math and Engineering Graphics plus Psychology and Political Science are on consecutive days.” 
 
 The English paper is scheduled for March 5 while the Physics exam is slotted for March 7. 
 
 Senior academician Neeru Kapai, co-founder of Modern School, said, “With subjects being held so close to each other, students will end up focusing on Physics and marks in English may suffer. When spacing is done for other subjects what is the problem in doing it for every other subject.”
 
 Mukta Chatterjee, executive director of CPS, said, “CBSE should have alternated   subjects for better spacing.” Abha Meghe, director of Meghe Group of Schools, said, “While drafting the timetable, group subjects taken by students should be considered. This year many students will be appearing for exams on consecutive days. Like many students have taken economics as an optional subject with Biology and Math. So on this case again students will have two consecutive papers.”
 
 “Sumathi Venugopalan, principal of CPS Wardhaman Nagar said, “No gap has been given by CBSE between options for the same stream of subjects”. Her colleague Kanchan Ukey agreed saying, “Humanities students who have taken Math will not have any gap.”
 
 Anshul Durgapurohit, student of Narayana Vidyalyam, said, “Preparation gap for Business Studies is quite unfair, as it is a vast subject. Preparatory leaves for accounts and economics are fair enough considering the amount of importance these subjects carry for a commerce learner.”
 
 
