PATNA:   CM   on Monday scoffed at speculations in a section of media that he might shift to national politics and that’s why the Centre allotted him a bungalow in the Lutyens’ Delhi.

 “It’s ridiculous. One media report suggested that deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and I have been planning to shift to national politics and both of us will be elected to the Rajya Sabha. Such speculations are rife especially after allotment of a bungalow to me in New Delhi. I have already returned from the national politics after being Union cabinet minister for several years. It is time for going to an ‘ashram’ and not to Delhi politics,” Nitish said in response to a media query after his weekly ‘Lok Samvad’ programme here.
 
 He said the Delhi bungalow was allotted to Bihar CM and not to Nitish Kumar as an individual. He said people having problems with him should know the rules and find out how many chief ministers have been allotted similar bungalows in the past.
 
 As the CM, Nitish stays at 1, Anne Marg while the 7, Circular Road bungalow has been allotted to him as former CM. His main opposition party RJD had raised eyebrows when Nitish was recently allotted 6, K Kamraj Lane bungalow in New Delhi.
 
 Nitish also justified ‘Z-plus’ security to him and said, “It is not in my hands as the security cover is not provided to an individual called Nitish Kumar but to the chief minister of Bihar, based on the inputs provided by the state government and analysis by the agencies concerned. People raising fingers should first learn the basic rules and regulations related to such security arrangements.”
 
 The CM also expressed happiness over the benefits to the state from   in terms of share in tax revenue. “It will not be proper to say Bihar has been totally ignored in the Budget. The state’s share in tax revenue has been put at around Rs76,000 crore. It is more than our own expectations,” Nitish said while looking towards deputy CM-cum-finance minister Sushil Kumar Modi, who was also with him.
 
 Taking a potshot at former JD(U) chief  , who recently held a ‘mahapanchayat’ in Buxar district’s Nandan village where the CM’s convoy was attacked, Nitish said, “They hold ‘mahapanchayat’ in solidarity with those who attack my convoy. Just look at the standards of politics they are setting. If they believe in violence, let them practise it; I will continue following the path of non-violence, peace and social harmony.” 
 
 When asked about Sharad’s meeting with RJD chief Lalu Prasad in Ranchi jail on Monday, Nitish quipped, “They are already together.”
 
 
