CHENNAI: It was a caper straight out of a heist film with a comic twist - up until a 22-year-old itinerant ice cream seller, having robbed a bank in Adyar of 6.35 lakh during business hours, armed with a pistol in each hand, found himself busted at a traffic halt after accidentally firing one of the guns. 

 The armed robbery was anything but funny for everyone involved but at least one person turned out to be as daring as the perpetrator: Mohanraj, 26, a customer held at gunpoint during the stick-up, helped nab the robber, Manish Kumar, of Bihar, giving chase and ramming his motorcycle with his own bike at a traffic signal 500m from the bank.
 
  Investigators said Manish - slightly-built and just 5'5", was wearing a white T-shirt with horizontal stripes and a full-face helmet when he entered an   branch in Indira Nagar, Adyar, at 1.25pm - took less than 15 minutes to menace customers, staff and the manager at the bank at gunpoint and make away with the money from a cashier's till in a sling bag. 
 
  "The suspect went straight into the bank manager's room, acting as if he wanted details about a loan," an investigating officer said. "Seconds later, he was brandishing two pistols and herding the manager, four employees and six customers into a corner." 
 
 
 
 
 Manish, who investigators said had purchased the countrymade pistols in his home state, then led the manager at gunpointto a teller’scubicle andordered a cashier to stuff all the cash in the registers into a bag. Fearing for their lives,theterrified bank employees and customers cooperated, the officer said.
 
 “He calmly walked out of thebankwiththe money, goton a motorcycle and sped away, heading southon Rajiv Gandhi Salai (the IT Expressway),” the officer said.Therewas nosecurity guard on the premises at the time, he said, noting that this, and the fact that the bank had just one security camera, may have emboldened the suspect.
 
 Manish did not count on a customer having the courage to pursue him. Mohanraj, who had come to deposit a check in the bank, followed the robber on his motorcycle and spotted him at the Indira Nagar junction trafficlight.
 
 “Mohanraj smashed his bike at speed against the suspect’s motorcycle, the impact causing thesuspecttofalltothe ground,” the officer said. “In a panic,thesuspect reachedfor a gun, accidentally fired the weapon and then took off on foot. But the traffic policemen and a bystander caught him after a brief chase.” The accidental discharge of the pistol did notharm anyone,hesaid.
 
 Mohanraj later told TOI thatthesightof theManishKumar’s pistols terrified everyone in the bank. Another customer,Poongavanam,said, “He seemedtobespeaking tosomeonethrough a Bluetoothdevice inside the helmet,” he said. Investigators later discounted the possibility that Manish Kumar had an accomplice. “It does not appear from his cellphone call records that anyone else was involved in the robbery,” another police officer said. “We seized four bullets and two country-made pistols from thesuspect,” a senior officer said.
 
 
 
