NAGPUR: Extending celebrations beyond the confines of individual homes,   is set to be celebrated across the city with gusto on Sunday. Falling on the first day of the month of Chaitra, Gudi Padwa is celebrated as New Year in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. 

 The day also marks the beginning of Chaitra or  , so the celebrations continue over the next eight days and culminate with   which falls on March 25 this year.
 
 “The day also marks the return of Raja Ram to Ayodhya after 14 years in exile,” says   who leads the celebrations at Gandhi Gate in Mahal. “At 6.30am we will start with abhishek of Shivaji’s statue after which we will raise the gudi. A rally will be taken out from Gandhi Gate to Chitnis Park and around Mahal area in which we will exhibit the variety of weapons used by Shivaji Maharaj,” he says.
 
 Taking the lead in the city with recitals of Geet Ramayan at 21 avenues spread over a week is cultural organization Sanskar Bharati. “We will begin with a recital of Geet Ramayan on Gudi Padwa at Ram Mandir ground at Pawanbhoomi at 6am. It will also be performed at 21 grounds connected with different temples across the city over the next week. We have roped in local artistes for this,” says Shyam Deshpande, secretary. 
 
 Sanskar Bharati has also collaborated with Paschim Nagpur Nagarik Sangh to organize a four-day discourse on Ramayan by Dr Shankar Abhyankar from Pune.
 
 The celebrations are not confined to just Maharashtrians. “Persons of all communities take part in various events organized by the svayamsevaks in different localities,” says Rajesh Loya, Mahanagar Sanghchalak about events like recitation of Ramraksha Stotra which will be organized at Badkas Chowk on March 25. 
 
 “These activities are taken up to promote awareness towards Hindu religion among the youth,” Loya adds. 
 
 The youth also mark their presence through dhol pathaks. “It is much better than DJ music as we dress in traditional attires and play only Indian musical instruments,” says a member of Shiv Mudra Pathak which will be performing at Sahakar Nagar.
 
 The South Indian community too will be organizing numerous programmes. “The Asthika Samaj will hold four-day activity from March 22 to 25 including bhajans by a children’s group from Chennai and kirtan by Brahmashiri Cuddalore Gopi Bagavadar and group from Mumbai,” says KV Nagarjan, secretary of Sri Bagavathi Sabha Gruha, Trimurti Nagar. 
 
 “A religious discourse by Pandit Kolluru Venkatadri Sharma from Raigadh, followed by a cultural programme will be held at Andhra Association on March 18,” says secretary PSN Murthy.
 
 To draw focus on the evils like drinking and partying on December 31, corporator   has been taking out a women’s rally in east Nagpur one day ahead of Gudi Padwa. “Women from different communities wear their traditional dresses and we walk from Agyaram Devi temple on Subhash Road to Poddareshwar Ram Mandir taking a circuitous route,” Pathak informs about the rally scheduled for Saturday at 4pm.
 
 
