The suave ‘jewel thief’ who targeted newly married couples and wedding guests at   for nearly two decades has been nabbed from Thane.   arrested 46-year-old  , a Vapi resident, two days ago and recovered Rs 30 lakh worth stolen jewellery. from his possession

 In Mumbai, Sejpal lived in  , said police sources. 
 
  
 “Since 2000, Sejpal has committed thefts at starred hotels in 19 cities across the country. He is shown as wanted in 11 cases registered in nine cities,” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said. Sejpal was taken to Hyderabad on Tuesday.
 
 His latest target was a newly married couple from Hyderabad. Posing as their relative, on March 6, Sejpal gained access to the honeymoon suite of Park Hyatt Hotel at Banjara Hills and escaped with jewellery worth Rs 12 lakh. Police analysed CCTV footage at the hotel and identified him. 
 
 On March 9, TOI broke the news about the identity of the suspect and said special teams of Hyderabad police were tracking Sejpal, a resident of Arambh Cooperative Society in Vapi and a native of Jamnagar in Gujarat. 
 
 Apart from Mumbai and Hyderabad, Sejpal had committed thefts at hotels in Visakhapatnam, Kolkata, Raipur, Allahabad, Gorakhpur, Banaras, Ghaziabad, Noida, Jalandhar, Chandigarh, Gurugram, Indore, Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram, Bhubaneswar, Coimbatore and Bengaluru since 2000. After he was released from Agra Central Prison in 2013, he committed 11 thefts till his luck ran out and he landed in police dragnet two days ago. 
 
 Sejpal used to target newly married couples or guests at wedding in starred hotels. “He would enter the hotel during morning hours when guests turn up for complimentary breakfast. He would strike up a conversation with potential targets and spend time near the reception area to gather names and room details of his targets. After getting the information, Sejpal used to convince the hotel staff that he was a family member of the victim and obtain access card to his room,” Kumar said.
 
 “There are security loopholes at starred hotels and using Sejpal’s crime pattern as a case study, we will brief hotel managers on how to improve security,” the Hyderabad police chief added.
 
 
