Nagpur: Singapore-based AAR Corp has announced a joint venture with Indamer Aviation which is coming up with an aircraft maintenance repair and overhaul (MRO) depot, at Mihan-SEZ.

 Indamer has been allotted 30 acres of land in the SEZ and construction is under way at the site, said sources in Maharashtra Aviation Development Company (MADC).
 
 Agencies have reported that AAR has announced the joint venture with Indamer Aviation for a new airframe MRO facility at Nagpur. 
 
 AAR has posted in its website that the facility being built in India is scheduled to be open in fall 2018 with certification from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). This means that the company hopes to start the project by mid 2018.
 
 The world class facility is designed to conduct heavy maintenance on all narrow body platforms including new generation aircraft, says the website post.
 
 “The first phase will have six narrow-body bays, including one for paint as well as component repair shops. Fully aligned with the make in India initiative, the facility will employ Indian residents including some of the existing Indamer workforce. A training school under Indamer’s CAR 147 certification and government of India’s skill development program will allow hundreds of students to gain skill sets and employment in Nagpur,” the website post adds.
 
 AAR’s announcements bring a further boost to development of aviation sector in the city. The state has already come up with a policy to boost defence and aerospace sector with hubs planned in Nagpur as well as other cities.
 
 The Mihan-SEZ itself has MRO for Boeing as well as Airbus planes. Constructed by aircraft Major Boeing it is now run by Air India. After mainly catering to Air India’s in house fleet the MRO has also begun taking third party jobs. 
 
 Indamer on the other hand is claimed to be the first MRO organization in India. It was founded by American entrepreneur Joseph Koszarek in the name ‘Ind’ stands for India and ‘Amer’ for America
 
 
