CHANDIGARH: Amid the ongoing uproar over governance reforms at the  , a number of student issues lined up for discussion could not be taken up in the last few syndicate meetings.

 The meeting scheduled on Sunday would happen a week after the previous meeting that was adjourned since the governing body members demanded the withdrawal of the affidavit filed by outgoing PU vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover.
 
 
  
 
 Ahead of admissions for the 2018-19 session, the issue of 10% fee hike for new admissions in 2018-19 session and 5% hike for the ongoing classes of 2018-19 session was slated for discussion in its meeting on March 30. The item was placed at number 22 for consideration in the meeting. However, of the 50 agenda items, only 19 were discussed. This would be the third time the matter is being placed before the syndicate for a decision.
 
 Since the agenda was not completed, the meeting was deferred for April 21. The meeting witnessed upheaval over governance reforms. PU vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover had filed an affidavit in the   and Haryana high court on governance reforms.
 
 Grover, who in the affidavit had raised concern over “groupism” in the senate affecting the university, adjourned the meeting as soon as it began on April 21, since the syndicate members demanded withdrawal of the affidavit. Not even a single agenda item could be discussed.
 
 Ahead of the admission season at the university, certain issues including clarification on PhD guidelines 2017, need to be discussed in the meeting.
 
 Moreover, before admissions to be conducted under the Joint Action Committee (JAC) in various engineering institutions in the city, there is no clarity whether the integrated BE (chemical) MBA course would continue to be run at Dr SS Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICET) or not.
 
 The integrated courses have been removed by the AICTE and have not received approval from the   (UGC) as well. The matter too will be tabled for discussion in its meeting on Sunday. The syndicate will also have to decide on reducing the duration of the integrated BE (Chemical) MBA course from five and a half years to five years for the currently-enrolled students.
 
 Sunday’s meeting will also have another important issue for discussion. The Panjab University Committee Against Sexual Harassment (PUCASH) has released its report on the assistant professor against whom four complaints of sexual harassment were received. The report seeks strict punishment for the faculty member, who was found guilty of two charges of sexual harassment.
 
 
