NEW DELHI: With the President having disqualified 20   MLAs, the Delhi high   on Monday dismissed an application filed last week by six of them challenging the Election Commission’s communication. 

 The ex-MLAs were likely to file a fresh petition on Tuesday challenging the government’s Sunday notification, official sources said.
 
 “Dismissed as withdrawn”, Justice Rekha Palli said, allowing the six to withdraw their petitions on the ground that no further relief could be given on their prayer, which had become “infructuous” as EC’s recommendation received Presidential assent. “You file a fresh petition, nothing survives,” the court said, after the counsel for EC told the court that the communication had been dispatched to the President on Friday itself, before the court hearing.
 
 Advocate Amit Sharma, appearing for EC, also said that in view of the government notification after the President’s assent, the applications had become infructuous. “In view of subsequent developments, no final order is required,” Justice Palli noted, adding that even the main petition — filed last year challenging an interim EC order — has become redundant.
 
 “In my opinion, the petition (main petition) also becomes infructuous,”   observed, but advocate Manish Vashisht, appearing for one of the AAP MLAs, said the main petition be kept pending as he wanted to examine the notification and urged the court to allow them time to raise a few issues, if needed. HC then posted the case for hearing on March 20, but said that in view of the changed circumstances, there was no need for EC to file its response as directed earlier.
 
 The former legislators had filed the applications in the main pending petition wherein they had challenged EC’s stand to examine a complaint against them for holding office of profit. The petition was filed in HC in August 2017 by the AAP MLAs after EC had commenced hearing on the petition moved by advocate Prashant Patel seeking their disqualification for holding the office of parliamentary secretaries, which he had said amounted to office of profit.
 
 In its opinion sent to the President, EC had said that by being parliamentary secretaries, they held office of profit and were liable to be disqualified as MLAs. The petition before EC was filed by Patel against 21 MLAs who were appointed as parliamentary secretaries by the AAP government. The proceedings against Jarnail Singh were dropped after he resigned as Rajouri Garden   to contest the Punjab assembly polls. In their pleas, the legislators had sought a stay on the proceedings before EC as well as any communication to the President by the poll panel.
 
 They argued that no hearing on the merits of the case took place before EC, and they were not given any opportunity to argue in person by the poll panel. They had also claimed that no evidence was led by complainant Prashant Patel.
 
 
