UDAIPUR: The five-year-old rape survivor from Chittorgarh who was raped on Tuesday night is showing improvement in her physical health condition. However she is still under deep mental and physical trauma.

 The child who is admitted in the intensive care unit is extremely frightened, reclusive and does not let her mother leave her side, unless in sleep, sources claimed. “She is too young to describe what she suffered and hence we won't record her statement, but we will speak to her parents in some time,” investigating officer   of Bhadesar police station told TOI.
 
 On Tuesday night, the child was abducted from her home while she was sleeping with her siblings and grandmother at her home at   under Bhadesar police station. The accused   lived in the same locality and had taken her away around 9.30 pm. He took the child to a secluded spot, raped her so brutally that the child's intestines had come out. The rapist assaulted her for over two hours and later dumped her inside bushes. An emergency surgery was conducted under supervision of a medical board that included a psychiatrist and senior doctors of the   in Udaipur. The child's uterus had to be removed to prevent infection from spreading to other parts of the body.
 
 On Friday, the accused Kishan Lohar was taken to the crime scene by the cops to cross verify the details he had told them in his confession. He was produced before the court later in the evening which sent him to police custody. “There are a few things to be recovered like the clothes he wore on the night. Minutest of details are being recorded and evidences collected so that the accused finds no way to escape after such a heinous act,” Rajawat said.
 
 At Bhadesar, Sarva Samaj held a demonstration and condemned the act. People demanded severe punishment for the accused. A case has been registered under the Prevention of atrocities against the SC and ST Act besides relevant sections of POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses Act).
 
 Meanwhile, at the MB Hospital in Udaipur, the child's parents are too miserable to see their daughter in severe pain. “How can one be so cruel with such a small child, we only want that the accused gets the severest of punishments possible,” the victim’s father broke down before media persons. The man who is a driver, had gone to deliver goods to Gujarat and was shocked to know about the unfortunate incident when he returned the next morning. The couple have two sons and the girl is their second child.
 
 
