Ludhiana: The busy Ludhiana-Jalandhar bypass was shut to traffic from 9am to 12.30pm here on Sunday, as the body of a Dalit youth who was injured in a much-politicized caste clash in Phagwara on April 13 and who died in the morning, was shifted from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital here to his hometown.

 Yashwant Bobby died at 1.45am and his body was moved from the hospital around 9am. While the body reached Phagwara in half an hour, the bypass, which falls on National Highway-1, was shut to traffic for nearly four hours as cops feared a law and order situation.
 
 Police started diverting traffic on the highway from Khanna to Jagraon, from Basti Jodhewal to Rahon Road, and from Ladhowal to nearby villages. Considering that the matter was sensitive, police also tightened security in the city. Traffic on the Ludhiana-Jalandhar bypass was diverted back to Samrala Chowk.
 
 Bobby had sustained a bullet injury in his head in the clash. He had been under treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital here all this while. As soon as they got to know about his death, all top police officials of the district reached the hospital.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police Ashwani Kapoor said the steps, though inconvenient for the people, were required, “considering the sensitivity of situation”. “We did this to restrict traffic from moving towards Jalandhar,” he said.
 
 The unannounced road diversions left commuters harried. Rising mercury added to their troubles, as maximum temperature touched 39°C in the city.
 
 A resident of Mandi Ahmadgarh, Amandeep Kaur, said she was going to attend a marriage function in Jalandhar, but got late because of the diversions. “This is not the first. There is so much inconvenience because of these bandhs and road blockages,” she said, adding that they had to meet their relatives at the bypass, but had to redo their plans because of the diversions.
 
 Pathankot-based trader Om Prakash Gupta too got stuck on the bypass. “I had come to Ludhiana for making a purchase and am going back home. However, the diversion at the bypass has caused a lot of inconvenience,” he said.
 
 The DCP added that there were also traffic diversions on some routes in Khanna, Kohara and Jagraon. Police were deployed in all major chowks and areas with a high population of Dalit community, like Jawahar Nagar, Haibowal, and near Chand Cinema.
 
 The routes were opened after the body was cremated around 12.30pm.
 
 No internet
 
 Internet facility was suspended for mobile phones throughout the day in Ludhiana. Many people who depend on 4G services had to rush to cyber cafes for official work. 
 
 ON ALERT
 
 A police official said there were also traffic diversions on some routes in Khanna, Kohara and Jagraon 
 
 Police personnel were deployed on all major chowks and areas with a high population of Dalit community in Ludhiana 
 
 Among such localities, police deployment was the heaviest in Jawahar Nagar, Haibowal, and near Chand Cinema
 
 
