UDUPI: At 8am, a composed   is fielding invitations from various delegations at his palatial house in Shiroor, a few kilometres from Udupi town. If Madhwaraj is feeling the heat of a tough re-election bid, he is certainly not showing it.

 
 
  
 
 
 One of the richest ministers in the state, Madhwaraj turns away most guests who want him to attend family weddings/housewarming ceremonies and such events. “I cannot attend these functions because of the model code of conduct. All I can do is wish you the best,” he tells a visitor.
 
 The secret of his composure, he says, is preparation. “No matter how much you have prepared for exams, there is always anxiety. It’s the same with elections. I have been preparing for 10 months and have already visited all booths at least thrice.” However, he adds, “I am not confident. It’s because people here vote intelligently. They evaluate various criteria of candidates and hold discussions among themselves before deciding who to vote for.”
 
 He is interrupted by another visitor,   local member  , who has come to invite him for her daughter’s wedding. “I will try attending, if not please excuse me,” he says. “Malla ijji, eerna ashirvada yepala uppad” (No problem, let your blessings be with us), she replies.
 
 “Development and service are my main mantras,” he says. He spends a few moments playing with his pet ‘Romeo’, a Siberian Husky, before heading to campaign.
 
 BJP’s Raghupati Bhat is seeking to upstage Madhwaraj. Shiroor Mutt seer Lakshmivara Tirtha Swamiji, who is contesting as an independent, is not only going to add colour to the campaign but also make a difference to the outcome if he remains in the fray. The seer is yet to start his campaign.
 
 Grassroots activists say the constituency is polarised. Money power does not play a major role, but caste and religious factors could make a difference. They say it remains to be seen which identity prevails: caste or religion. The constituency is dominated by Billavas, Mogaveeras, GSBs, Bunts and Christians.
 
 Bhat does not miss a chance to take a dig at his rival, citing earlier speculation that Madhwaraj was joining BJP. Even if the latter wins, he may end up coming to BJP, says Bhat. The BJP campaign is based on “rampant corruption under the   regime” – as evident in “privatisation” of the government’s women and child hospital in Udupi without floating a tender. Bhat also refers to the waiver of a Rs 12-crore fine slapped by the district administration on a high-profile educational institution. “Udupi BJP is united and we expect a clear victory. Our campaign is focused on the party’s development agenda,” he says.
 
 
