GURUGRAM: A 30-year-old armyman was shot in the   in GURUGRAM on Tuesday while he was chasing two chain-snatchers. He is currently in a hospital and is said to be out of danger. 

 
 Posted in Delhi and residing in Sector 31, GURUGRAM, Vikas Kilhor left his house on his bike at around 8.30am to go to work. After reaching the Sector 31 turn on   road, he stopped his bike when he saw some friends, and was talking to them when he heard a middle-aged women shouting “Bachao, mera chain loot liya (Help, my chain has been snatched)”. 
 
 Vikas spotted two youths escaping on a bike with the woman’s gold chain. He started chasing them on his bike.
 
 The chain-snatchers tried to scare Vikas by flashing a gun and also asked him to stop tailing them. But unfazed by the threats, he continued to chase them for 1.5km and closed in on them near the Jharsa turn. 
 
 At this point, the chain-snatchers stopped their bike and the pillion rider fired a shot at Vikas from close range, hitting his right chest. Vikas fell from his bike and the chain-snatchers fled the scene. 
 
 However, even after being hit, Vikas managed to get up and walk to Cheeranjivi Hospital nearby. He got himself admitted and the hospital staff informed his family about the matter. After initial treatment, he was moved to another city hospital.
 
 Lalitha, a resident of Sector 40, whose gold chain was stolen, said she was going to a mandir in Sector 31 when two youths on a bike approached her. “Today was Vat Savitri, when married women observe a day-long fast wishing long lives for their husbands. I was going to a temple to worship under the banyan tree as per rituals, when they snatched my chain,” said Lalitha, adding she had items for the pooja in her hands and could not do any thing to stop the chain-snatchers. “I started shouting for help and a person started chasing them,” she said.
 
 Vijender Singh, SHO of Sector 40 police station, said they were initially informed about the chain-snatching near Sector 31. “When we started collecting information about the case, we came to know about the chase and the firing,” said Singh, adding that based on Vikas’s complaint, police has registered a case and started an investigation into the matter.
 
 The FIR was registered against unknown persons under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 379A (chain snatching) of IPC at Sector 40 police station. Police are scanning CCTV footage from the area to identify the chain-snatchers.
 
 Sushil Kumar, the brother of the injured armyman, said Vikas “is not scared of anything and he has the habit of standing up against wrongdoings”, adding the family is proud with how he chased down the chain-snatchers.
 
 
