PUNE: Braving the winter chill, a group of village elders gathered at the Yashwantrai temple in Mavadi Kadepathar village, about 60km from Pune, on Friday to say a special prayer for Shivajirao Gaikwad. 

 "He is a son of the soil who made it big in the movies and now he is going to form a political party. He will be a super hit in politics as he is in cinema," say villagers as they leave the temple. When someone still doesn't get it, there is a burst of laughter. "Our Shivaji is your  ," says  , a former sarpanch of the village in Purandar taluk.
 
 As Tamil superstar Rajinikanth prepares for his political debut, the residents of Mavadi Kadepathar are excited. They say Rajini's roots are in the village that is still home to many  , and is close to the pilgrimage spot of Jejuri. For a few kilometres around, Mavadi Kadepathar is known as 'Rajinikanth's village'.
 
 Babanrao Gaikwad, one of the village elders, says Rajinikanth's grandfather moved to   in Karnataka's Vijayapura taluk and then to Bengaluru. The family migrated in search of work about a century ago like many others in the village. Though they had land in the village, the family remained in Karnataka.
 
 "We met Rajinikanth a few years ago when he was in Lonavala for a shoot. We tried to catch up with him during the shoot but were sent away by the security guards. Later, we went to his hotel and waited for him near the lift. We introduced ourselves in Hindi and he asked us to speak in Marathi. We were surprised to know that he speaks fluent Marathi," says Chachar.
 
 Other villages in Purandar taluk and other parts of Maharashtra are trying to lay claim to the superstar.   MLA   in 2016 demanded the Maharashtra Bhushan, the state's highest award, for Rajini. He claimed the Gaikwad family is from Kolhapur. In Khed taluk, villagers say the Gaikwad family is from their locality.
 
 "We requested Rajinikanth to visit Mavadi Kadepathar when we met him and he agreed, but he's yet to come," says Prakash Bhame, another resident, adding that the star had asked what they expected from him. "We said we didn't want anything, just a visit to his native village."
 
 Some have tried to meet him in Chennai in vain, while others call his office often in the hope that he will accept their invitation and visit. Most of them have been to Poes Garden in Chennai to take a look at his residence from a distance.
 
 In 2013, they invited Rajinikanth to inaugurate a Marathi literary meet in Saswad, but there was no response. "But we strongly believe that one day Rajinikanth will come looking for his roots," says Vijay Kolte, one of organisers of the meet.
 
 
