KOLKATA: The 15-year-old girl found bloodied and unconscious in Golf Gardens on Friday morning was possibly not sexually assaulted — there are no injuries on her private parts — but could have been attacked by multiple persons, police suspect. The nature of her injuries indicates she put up a fight. Her family, too, claimed she was trained in boxing and karate.

 Doctors have detected a fracture in the girl’s skull and abrasions in the forehead, arms and legs. But there were no injury marks in the private parts, possibly ruling out sexual assault. “Some of the injuries may have been caused on impact with the road. We don’t know if she was thrown out of a moving vehicle or she fell hard against the road after being struck. But there are no signs of sexual assault yet,” said DC (SSD) Santosh Nimbhalkar.
 
 
  
 
 A police sourced added: “The nature of injuries and scratch marks on the girl point to a struggle between the girl and more than one person. It appears that she had put up a fight before losing consciousness from a blow to the head.” They are on the lookout for a youth who, locals say, had been seething in anger after being dumped by the girl.
 
 The girl’s grandmother, who works as a help in the apartment block where the girl’s battered body was found, is sure that there were multiple attackers. “My granddaughter had trained in karate and boxing. She would have certainly resisted a rape attempt with all her might,” the maternal grandmother said.
 
 Cops on Friday night questioned four youths known to the girl to identify persons she used to hang around with. According to locals, the girl had friends in the neighbourhood and was close to at least two boys. “She had ditched one guy for another. This attack could have been in revenge,” said a local.
 
 Police have also questioned Chanchala Haldar, the newspaper vendor who had first spotted the girl on Friday morning. “I was called to the police station on Friday night and again on Saturday morning. They asked me to show in what posture the girl had been lying,” she recounted.
 
 Attending doctors at MR Bangur had wanted to shift the patient to SSKM Hospital but the family members and locals insisted that she be treated there. “CT scan reports have revealed haematoma in the head. A neuro-surgeon from SSKM Hospital was brought in for detailed investigation,” said M R   superintendent Tapas Ghosh.
 
 The 15-year-old was shifted to the ICU at Bangur Hospital to ensure her security. Doctors said she was still groggy and traumatised and was unable to speak coherently. Two attempts by cops to take her statement drew a blank. Cops said she was unable to even recollect how she landed up in the condition at a spot less than 500 metre from her home.
 
 The grandmother recounted that the girl had left home in school uniform on Thursday. Since other family members also work, they had assumed she had returned home and then gone to acoaching class. It was only when she did not return by 8pm that everyone grew worried. She was found unconscious in the neighbourhood the next morning.
 
 The incident has left the otherwise quiet neighbourhood in shock. Debolina Dasgupta, who works in a private firm, said: “I came to live in Golf Gardens when I was married 11 years ago. I have never seen anything like this. The area was considered safe. Many a times, people return home alone late at night. Now, it will not feel that safe any more.”
 
 
 
 
