VADODARA: Once an adventure sports enthusiast, 40-year-old Aditya Sarvankar is now completely bedridden after being diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (also known as Lou Gehrig’s disease) last year. But even with just one eye, ear and hand functioning, he recently co-authored a book to raise awareness about the disease.

 
 Sarvankar was working as global marketing head of a city-based pharmaceutical company when he was diagnosed with the disease which theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking also suffered from.
 
 “He decided to write the book for three reasons. He wanted to spread awareness about the disease and how families are affected by it. Secondly, he wanted to do something for patients suffering from neurological diseases and lastly for his son,” said  , a life coach, who wrote the book with Sarvankar. 
 
 “As the book was published, we decided that 80% of the royalty will be used for well-being of the patients suffering from neurological diseases. I am in talks with an NGO in Mumbai to take this forward,” Domadia added.
 
 Currently, Sarvankar lives with a caretaker in an apartment in   from where he continues to work for the pharmaceutical company. He got separated with his wife in December last year. “I showed readiness to work even after diagnosis and my company agreed to let me work till I am productive,” Sarvankar said with the help of voice assistant of his tablet. Since he cannot speak and move, he communicates through the tablet using an eye-tracker.
 
 Domadia said that because of his work, he has travelled across more than 40 countries where he experienced adventure sports like rafting, scuba diving, sky diving and mountaineering among others. 
 
 Sarvankar was an ardent bicyclist and used to cycle daily until he was diagnosed with the disease. However, he has dismantled the bicycle and packed it in the box hoping that his son will use it some day.
 
 Acupuncturist Dr   said “With every passing day, his muscles are losing strength as the neurons which control them are dying. Many times, he also suffers from breathlessness but his positive attitude is remarkable. It is very difficult to show such positivity in this debilitating condition.
 
 
