WUHAN: PM Narendra Modi on Friday complimented President   for creating an environment of positivity through the informal summit and the two leaders seemed to hit it off well from the time Xi received Modi at the Hubei Provincial Museum with a folk dance programme.

 
 After a one-on-one meeting, the two leaders took a tour of the Exhibition of Marquis Yi of Zeng Cultural Relics and Treasure, which were unearthed in Suizhou City, Hubei province, in 1978. According to the museum, Marquis Yi of Zeng was the king of a vassal state 2,400 years ago. The era of Marquis Yi of Zeng, both leaders were told, was a little later than that of Confucius, and was contemporary with the later period of Mahajanapada Age of India.
 
 Xi also invited Modi to witness a traditional Chinese tea ceremony on Saturday when the two leaders will meet again over a walk in a heavily wooded stretch on the banks of East Lake. This will be followed by a boat ride in the lake which is expected to last for almost an hour. The tea ceremony is likely to take place on the boat. Modi had a similar 'chai pe charcha' with PM Shinzo Abe when he visited Japan in 2014.
 
 Modi presented Xi with reprints of two paintings of celebrated Chinese painter Xu Beihong (1895-1953) during his stay at Santiniketan during 1939-40. 
 
  
  
 
 Sources said a lot of thinking had gone into deciding the gift to Xi. "Titled 'The Horse and Sparrows' and 'Grass', these paintings are in the collection of Visva Bharati, and their single reprints were especially commissioned by the ICCR on the occasion of the informal summit between the two leaders in  ," said a source here.
 
 Xu Beihong came to Santiniketan and taught at the Kala Bhavana as its first visiting professor from China. "During his stay, Rabindranath Tagore inaugurated an exhibition of more than 150 paintings of Xu Beihong in December 1939," the source said.
 
 Diplomatic sources said the meeting at the museum was an exercise in cultural diplomacy meant to showcase China's soft power. Modi recalled an earlier visit to Hubei province as Gujarat CM when he saw the Three Gorges Dam. "It's important to remember that for 1,600 years out of the past 2,000 years, India and China accounted for 50% of the world GDP," Modi said.
 
 Modi's meeting and dinner later at the East Lake guest house lasted for over two hours. Officials said Xi walked right up to Modi's car to see him off after the dinner.
 
