RAJKOT: Hundreds of farmers growing white onion in Bhavnagar district have stopped the sale at   market yard, the biggest onion trading centre after   in  , following drastic fall in prices.

 This is the third consecutive year that prices of white onion, which is mainly exported, have plummeted. Nearly 20,000 tons of white onion is lying at farmers’ end.
 
 White onion is dehydrated and exported in European countries. Out of the nearly 100 dehydration plants in Mahuva, 70 are in dysfunctional condition. Currently, farmers get Rs 60 to 70 per 20 kg, however, their production cost is Rs 140. According to farmers, they are booking losses in the prices for the last three years as a result of which the production this year has reduced by 25% compared to last year. This year, the production of white onion is nearly 45,000 ton, which was 60,000 ton last year.
 
 Chairman of Mahua market yard   said, “White onion is only exported and there is very little domestic consumption. The owners of dehydration plants compete with each other and sell onions at lowest price in the international market, which is US $900 to US $1200 per ton. However, the onions from other countries fetch between US $1,500 and US $1,800. We want government to fix minimum export price (MEP) for onion for the benefit of farmers.”
 
 India exports 40% of world’s requirement of onion and it’s the second biggest exporter of onion after America, which sends out 45% of its produce. The export business of onion is centralized in Mahuva and white onion of Nashik also come to dehydration plants here.
 
 Former president of All India Dehydration Vegetables Association Vitthal Koradia said, “We export 50,000 to 60,000 tons per year, but since last 2-3 years, we have over stocked because the prices are low. Last year’s stock is also lying in the cold storage and nearly 25,000 tons is unsold for which we are searching market. Our 70% plants are non-functional because they have no capacity to bear more loss.” 
 
 Traders wants government to implement pre-Goods and Service Tax (GST) policy for export. “Before the implementation of GST, we used to get 7% transportation assistance, which has now been reduced to 3%. As a result, the transportation cost is increased. Traders who have huge stock are also paying interest on finance, rent and electricity bill of cold storage. We are also facing tough competition from China and America.”
 
 
