MYSURU: On a hot and sultry day in May 2013 when Siddaramaiah left home to take oath as the 22nd chief minister of Karnataka, it was just another day for his younger son Dr  . A doctor, he left his Bengaluru home in the morning and was asleep by the time his father returned home that night as the CM.

 
 Until two years ago,   was a recluse like his mother,  . But the death of his older brother Rakesh Siddaramaiah in June 2016 changed the political equation in the CM’s household. The CM’s supporters wanted Yathindra to take over. Given his aloofness and disinterest, a nervous CM asked him to test the waters first.
 
 
 It’s been 18 months since then, and 38-year-old Dr Yathindra has been visiting Varuna segment, represented by his father, five days a week and connecting with the residents there.
 
 As the   nominee from Varuna, Yathindra has the onerous task of filling in the shoes of his father who has been a seven-time MLA and has served as the minister under two CMs, as a deputy CM once and the CM for a full term. As he campaigns in the segment, it is his association with his father which has become his new identity.
 
 “It is unfair to even suggest that I will be able to fill my father’s shoes. But his development works have given me a head start,” Yathindra told TOI during campaigning.
 
 At Karya in Nanjangud taluk when he begins the campaign with his father for the first time after his candidature was announced, Yathindra manages to grab attention. Unlike leaders who make a dash to get close to VIPs during roadshows, he has to be asked to be at the centrestage. During the roadshow, when he stood in a corner Chamarajanagar MP R Dhruvanarayana coaxed him to come in the front when people began cheering for him. “Yathindra’s humility in endearing. That sets him apart,” Dhruvanarayana says.
 
 His poll managers say five years projects worth Rs 2,327 crore have been initiated in the segment, which is spread over Mysuru, Nanjangud and T Narsipur taluks. He was instrumental in building 50 Basava Bhavans in the constituency to silence critics who were accusing Siddaramaiah of focusing on Ahinda voters, they note.
 
 Ahead of his political plunge, people close to him say they worked on his image makeover. When he addressed people as ‘Sir’, they asked him not to.
 
 It hasn’t been easy for the doctor who was happy being in the shadows of his father and older brother. Until fate had other plans for him.
 
 Will nurture Varuna: CM
 
 On Tuesday, the CM toured Varuna segment and explained to the people why he opted for Chamundeshwari. “Even if I am not contesting from Varuna, it still will remain my segment,” he stated adding that both Varuna and   are like his two eyes. “I will continue to take care of it,” he told the electorate.
 
