Chennai: When   was retained by   in January, they were showing faith in a player who had been out of India reckoning for almost a year. Since then, Raina might have earned a recall to the Indian T20 set-up and contributed a couple of useful 40s against South Africa and Bangladesh, but he still has a lot to do if he is to cement a regular spot in the Indian limited-overs sides heading into next year’s World Cup.

 
 
 
 
 
 Raina’s last ODI, after all, came way back in October 2015 against South Africa and as Dinesh Karthik showed with his exploits against Bangladesh recently, there is certainly no shortage of competitors in the middle-order either.
 
 
 
 
 
 Having reunited with   – where he notched up a minimum of 400 runs every season barring 2015 – Raina has an ideal opportunity to display his match-winning abilities and steal a march on his closest rivals. During CSK’s net session at Chepauk on Friday, the left-hander showed that he is in the right frame of mind to do so, stepping out to the likes of Karn Sharma and taking every opportunity offered to free his arms. Every time he got a good connection, he earned a big roar from the handful of CSK fans who had gathered to watch their practice, indicating his overwhelming popularity here.
 
 
 
 
 Ambati Rayudu, who will play for CSK this season, has certainly seen Raina’s destructive ability from close quarters during his time with Mumbai Indians and knows all too well what the left-hander is capable of.
 
 “I think it’s the element of surprise Raina carries in his batting that makes him stand out. When bowlers don’t expect him to score or hit a delivery, he somehow manages to put it away for a four or six. We have suffered at his hands several times,” Rayudu said on the sidelines of a Star Sports show Game Plan.
 
 While Rayudu was there at the nets on Friday along with the likes of Raina,  , Ravindra Jadeja and M Vijay, the only foreigner to go through the paces was Dwayne Bravo.
 
 Former CSK director of cricket operations VB Chandrasekhar, who was associated with the team in the inaugural edition in 2008, also believes there is a lot to come from the dashing blade of Raina.
 
 “Raina is far from being finished as a cricketer. He doesn’t always need to be explosive. There is a factor called experience which helps. With experience on his side, he will be motivated to complete matches. I think he will look to stay on and finish games. He has got a lot to offer. He is also an outstanding athlete. It makes him such a huge influence on the field. When it comes to franchise cricket, it is a huge bonus having Raina around. He is someone who has been part and parcel of the team for many years. CSK have really benefitted from his presence,” the 56-year-old told TOI.
 
 However, VB acknowledged that Raina is at a critical stage of his career and will need to deliver significant performances. “While there is a long way to go before the 2019 World Cup, this   is a very important tournament for him. The team really depends on him to deliver and he stands to benefit a lot by doing well from a personal career point of view.”
 
 
