HYDERABAD: Several heritage structures belonging to   have lost their sheen with encroachments coming up all around. Hundreds of acres of prime land belonging to these heritage structures, which are of religious and historical value too, have been gobbled up with the Waqf Board failing to act in time.

 Most of these heritage structures and the landed properties attached to them date back to the   period, a little more than 425 years. According to an inspection report prepared by a team of the Central Waqf Council (CWC) members after a visit to Hyderabad last week, reveals that some of the heritage properties have lost all assets attached to them. Other heritage structures have lost landed properties ranging from 60 to 80%. The land parcels were donated by the Qutub Shahi rulers to these heritage and religious structures for their regular upkeep.
 
 The properties were transferred to the State Waqf Board after Independence. Referring to Koh-e-Moula Ali shrine, the CWC report said the holy site dedicated to   originally had 328 acre and 10 guntas of dry land and 56 acre and one gunta of wet land. This was declared in the state gazette (AP State Minorities and social welfare department SI No. 2893) as waqf land. The entire land has been encroached.
 
 The   at Tirumalgherry, another shrine dedicated to Hazrat Imam Ali, had 210 acre of land at Ammuguda in Secunderabad. It is worth Rs 200 crore. About 70% of the property has been gobbled up.
 
 The CWC report said all the 27 acre and 30 guntas of landed property belonging to Toli Masjid, one of the old mosques of Hyderabad, at   has been under illegal occupation.
 
 About 1,110 acre of prime land worth several crores belonging to dargah of Hazrat Baba Sharfuddin at   was given to   airport. “The compensation is yet to be paid to the board,” the CWC team said in its report.
 
 The entire 1,300 acre of land of Ashoorkhana Naal-e-Mubarak at   is under illegal occupation. The Dargah of Hussain Shah Wali has lost 1,654 acre.
 
 Shia leader and BJP minority cell spokesperson Firasat Ali Baqri accused the Waqf Board of failure to recover the encroached land. “The board should be superseded, and administrator appointed to probe into irregularities and recover prime land parcels,” he demanded.
 
 Waqf Board chairman Mohammad Saleem said the properties were encroached upon during the tenure of previous boards. “We have strengthened our legal team to fight the cases,” he added.
 
