THANE: The lake city has been buzzing with festivites this weekend. While some payed tribute to god and thanking him for the bountiful nature, many will also be ringing in their New Year.

 The Asamese harvest festival Rongali Bihu and Punjabi’s   was observed on Saturday, while the south Indian community will come together on Sunday to welcome their New Year with a puja, followed by an assortment of traditional culinary dishes. Raaman Khurana of Global Punjabi Association in Thane said, “For us, Baisakhi is an opportunity to bring people of the community together and host events. The occasion is important as it was on this day that our 10th Guru—Guru Gobind Singh— laid down the foundation for the order of the Khalsa Panth, which is the order of pure ones. In  , farmers perform rituals to thank the lord for a good   crop.”
 
 Some local associations involved youngsters to plan and participate in the celebrations. General secretary of the   association in Mumbai, Deepankar Borgohain said, “From 3-year-olds to 70 years and above, everyone took part in group dance and other cutural activities. On the second day of the seven-day Bihu festival, we perform the Bihu dance in every household. It is our way of wishing each other a good year. To honour the god, we even take our cattle for a wash. Then a curry is made using 101 vegetables is prepared and everyone is dressed in new clothes.”
 
 Be it a harvest festival or the beginning of a New Year, everyone is gripped with festivities, turning the lake city into a multi-cultural hub.
 
 A resident of Pokhran Road 1,  , said, “For us, Vishu is a festival which marks the first day of the New Year. A puja of lord Krishna is performed at midnightafter which kani is set up. The kani includes all types of fruits out of which mango, lemon, orange and cucumber are a must. Besides fruits, gold ornaments and money of all denomination is kept. Everyone gets up at 4am the next day. It is a custom to be followed by every family member to visit the kani with a blind fold. First the head of the family can see, then the rest.”
 
 
