PUNE: The Wednesday night   of   biscuits worth Rs1.35 crore, which sent Hinjewadi police into a tizzy, turned out to be a hoax.

 While the police had had booked three unidentified men for the robbery after a complaint filed by a jewellery shop  , an attempt to recreate the crime scene by senior police officers revealed several discrepancies with the complaint. The city crime branch officials had also conducted a parallel investigation. 
 
 The police finally concluded that the complainant lodged a fake complaint to usurp with the gold biscuits. 
 
 The complainant, Behraram Shantilal Purohit (31) of Timber Market, reported the robbery to the police around 1.30am on Thursday, three hours after it purportedly took place. 
 
 As per the complaint, he was sent to Mumbai’s Zaveri bazaar by his employer — a   from Raviwar Peth — to procure 45 gold biscuits worth Rs1.35 lakh. Each biscuit weighed 100g. “Purohit, who stuffed these biscuits in his multi-pocket jacket, boarded an MUV which ferries passengers between Mumbai and Pune illegally,” the FIR read.
 
 Purohit, in his complaint, claimed that he got off the MUV around 10.30pm near Balewadi sports complex and hired an autorickshaw to reach Pune. After a few minutes, three men boarded the autorickshaw as co-passengers. “One man held a sharp weapon against Purohit’s stomach, forced him to get off the auto and chased the driver off,” said senior inspector Waykar. 
 
 The suspects first robbed him off cash and a cellphone, and frisked. Finding the gold biscuits, they stole them all, the complaint said. 
 
 Waykar and a team visited the spot on Thursday and attempted to recreate the crime scene many times. They found several holes in Purohit’s version. They were studied CCTV footage from three cameras and found that the spot where the alleged robbery took place was crowded at the time of the robbery. 
 
 The police concluded that Purohit cooked up the story to flee with the biscuits to his native place, and revive his business that had failed two years ago. 
 
 Meanwhile, a crime branch team rushed to Mumbai, as they suspect Purohit stashed the biscuits there. 
 
 
