LUCKNOW: The Centre has sought inputs from states on whether a Singapore model to counter Islamic radicalization, with community involvement, can be implemented in the country.

 “For Indian conditions, among various counter-radical programmes being undertaken by different countries, the Singapore model, (which is) a combination of hard security measures and stringent laws with community involvement, is best suited. Action may be taken by DGP of states/UTs,” says a note sent by Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to police chiefs and home departments of states.
 
 Uttar Pradesh, Kerala and Assam are among the few states from which MHA has sought this assistance.
 
 Instead of taking radicalised youth through a long criminal trial, Singapore model is based on lessons in nationalism and religious rehabilitation with the help of popular scholars and community leaders.
 
 The Centre’s proposal further states that there is a need for “involvement of a dedicated ministry for dissemination of effective counter narratives.”
 
 “There is a need to develop a standard operative procedure (SOP) to deal with radical material and websites along with three-pronged counselling system involving the family, clergy and professionals,” it says.
 
 “The effort is to get back the Indian youth who have got drawn towards organisations like   of Iraq and   (ISIS) in the recent past due to various reasons,” said a senior UP government official.
 
 “There is a need for eminent Muslim religious leaders to come forward with credible counter narratives and alternate narratives,” it adds.
 
 Even as several hundred Malaysians and Indonesians in the neighbourhood have gone to join Islamic State or similar groups in Syria, the Singapore government over the years has tapped unpaid volunteer group of moderate academicians and teachers who offer religious counselling to detained extremists and their families.
 
 
 
 
 The Centre is also learnt to have sought assistance from states to bring together “reformed elements” and “victims of terrorism” in the programme to remove radicalism.
 
 The Centre has also advised the states that a close watch must be maintained on foreign donations of Wahahabi-Salafi doctrinated-outfits.
 
 The same proposal also seeks the cooperation of states to help contribute to a cell in the ministry of home affairs that will deal with “anti-national propaganda.” The government intends to start its own websites to differentiate between 'fact and myth” while saying there have been instances when inflammatory shared posts on Whatsapp, Facebook and Twitter have triggered untoward incidents in parts of India “Rumour mongering on social media could also be effectively countered by creating fact or myth websites.” Government sources said that it has appointed   ( ) to conceive the SOP and discuss with states.
 
 
