Nagpur: Senior economist and former member of Maharashtra state planning board,   says time has come for all to get into a ecological civilization replacing conspicuous consumption and mindless development with reduce-reuse-recycle and sustainable alternatives.

 The senior social activist, who turns 75 this year, has not given up hope and embarked on a campaign called ‘Vasundhara bachav, Manav bachav, Kisan bachav’ (save earth, farmer and humans). As part of it he was in the city having already covered 25 districts delivering awareness lectures on real threat to mankind from environmental disaster. Taking a break from his schedule he spoke to reporters here.
 
 “Having glossed over effective land reforms, Green Revolution strategy of chemical and industrial farming was lapped up in the name of food self-sufficiency. That Punjab model has today become hurdle in the national dream of equitable and sustainable development,” Desarda opined.
 
 “There is hardly any difference between politicians who have little understanding of issues or will to fight them. They have instead kept people engaged in vote-bank driven clashes of ‘Manuvad versus Constitution’, ‘Gandhi versus Ambedkar’. We have to come out of the rut and think of a better alternative model which is now accessible. Like solar power can replace fossil fuels,” Desard stressed.
 
 “Having adopted no-farm resource-intensive methods of cultivation, farmers are forced to borrow money to spend heavily. This is the root cause of prevalent agrarian distress, indebtedness tragic manifestation of which is farmers’ suicides . Palliatives of debt-relief, support prices sans purchase guarantee would not achieve the objective of providing income and livelihood security to 600 million Indian (of them 60 million in Maharashtra),” Desarda opined..
 
 The way forward is to restore land ownership to its actual tillers. Stop diversion of land to non-farm mega construction projects like fancy highways, airports using alibi of development, he says. Desarda also suggests that 50% of the state budget be spent on providing food, nutrition, people’s housing, health and education. “There is overarching need for adopting an approach of low external input sustainable agriculture (LEISA). This alone can bailout farmers,” he says.
 
 Desarda firmly disapproves of the current government’s pet project of Jalyukta Shivar (water conservation at village level) terming it as unscientific approach. He is also against the Samruddhi Express highway connecting Nagpur and Mumbai for its extravagance.
 
 
