Meerut: A day after a woman along with her brother in-law and his friend threw acid on two sportswomen in Lal Kurti area of Meerut, the National Commission for Women (NCW) on Thursday directed the SSP to investigate the matter and apprise the commission about the detailed action taken.   “The Commission has taken Suo Motu cognizance of the incident and has written to SSP, Lalkurti Bazaar, @meerutpolice directing her to investigate the matter and apprise the Commission about the detailed action taken (sic),” the commission tweeted from its official handle @NCWIndia.    Meanwhile, the Acid Survivors Foundation India (ASFI) came forward to ensure proper treatment to the victims. District president of ASFI, Chandrahas Mishra said, “According to a Supreme Court order, hospitals are required to treat acid attack victims free of cost and we are here to ensure that.”    On her part, Meerut SSP Manzil Saini has sent a report to the government for providing monetary assistance to the girls under the Rani Laxmi Bai Mahila Samman Kosh scheme.    On Wednesday morning, two girls — 20-year-old Shalu, a district level boxer and her 19-year-old friend Garima, a district level wrestler — were attacked with acid by Soni Kumari (24), her brother in-law Vijay Kumar and one of his friends while they were on their way to Kailash Prakash Stadium for practice.    According to doctors, Shalu suffered 20% burns, mostly in the back, while Garima sustained injuries on her elbow. Police have already arrested Soni Kumari and Vijay Kumar, and are searching for the third accused. The three accused have been booked under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 326A (voluntary causing grievous hurt by acid)    The attack was reportedly a fallout of an argument between Soni and Shalu outside the district jail, where they both had gone to meet their imprisoned relatives.    Speaking to TOI, SSP Manzil Saini said, “So far the investigation has revealed that in September 2016, Soni’s brother was sent to jail on charges of rape. In November, Soni filed gang rape charges (that appear to be false) against three youths, including the brother of the rape survivor who had earlier indicted her sibling. One of the three accused youths, Rajesh Khari, was a friend of Shalu and was the only one arrested and jailed for gang rape. Soni and Shalu have clashed on several occasions on this issue. Wednesday’s attack on Shalu and Garima seems to be the fallout of this rivalry.”