Kochiites would know   aka   only as the music man who has been livening up parties and events in Kochi for a decade or more with his expert mixes. 

 But at his home in Chembumukku, Savio is another person, who finds peace and calm in non-human company, besides his family. “I always had a craze for pets. Ask me what I don’t have as a pet,” he says with a laugh. His three dogs run around the house while a couple of cockatiels and other birds chirp in their cages. Fish swim in a pond in the premises of the house. They got Diamond, a miniature pinscher, first. He is the eldest of the lot but also the smallest and the most active! “He is small but is a ‘puli’,” says Celine, Savio’s elder daughter. “He can bark the house down and also tries to control the others.”
 
 Dan the dachshund came next into their lives, and soon established himself as the official watchdog. “He doesn’t like to be pet too much and is slightly aggressive but guards the house fiercely. He is let out at night and won’t let a soul enter the premises,” says Savio. Ginger the Beagle was a birthday gift to Celine and she is closest to her, while Diamond stays loyal to his chosen owner, Savio’s four-year-old, Christine! “They are the same size and he is the only one Christine can carry by herself. She bathes him and rocks him to sleep on her lap. She even dances with him. In return, he obeys her more than all of us,” says Celine.
  
  
 Though her dad is away for work most of the time, he finds time to take care of his animals, she adds. 
 
 Interestingly, the three dogs were bought after Christine was born, during her infant years. While a lot of people are against keeping dogs when there is a baby in the house, Savio doesn’t believe in anything of the sort. “It all depends on how well you take care of the dogs. I give them proper medical attention. Their aggression levels also depend on how you bring them up,” he says. “After all the stress of work, you can feel your mind relaxing when you spend time with them.” Celine, who just completed her Class 10, echoes his thoughts. “During exam time, they are a real blessing. I chill with them and all my anxieties and even sadness disappear,” she says.
 
 
 
 
 
 
