NAGPUR: The first stretch of   —   depot to Airport South — is ready and now Mahametro is concentrating on the second one — Hingna depot to Subhash Nagar. Mahametro has set a target of completing this stretch by August.

 A Mahametro official told TOI that the construction work of the viaduct from Hingna depot to Subhash Nagar is 50% complete. “The civil work will be completed by June end. Laying of tracks and erection of electric poles would be done along with viaduct construction. These two works plus installation of signalling and telecommunication systems will be over by August. The five stations on the section — Lokmanya Nagar, Bansi Nagar, Wasudeo Nagar, Rachana T-point and Subhash Nagar — will become functional by then. Finishing would, however, go on for some more months,” he said.
 
 After this elevated section is ready, Mahametro will conduct a trial run on this section and then invite Research Design and Standards Organization (RDSO) for inspection. This will be followed by a visit of Commissioner of Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) and then commercial operations will commence.
 
 Commenting on the next trial run, the official said, “The railway lines in at grade section were laid on ballasted track. Now, we will have to lay it on ballastless track. So, it will be a different experience.”
 
 The next stretch to be commissioned is Airport South to Sitabuldi elevated section. “We have set a target of completing all the works by November end. Once Sitabuldi is connected to Mihan, we will get some passenger traffic,” the official said.
 
 Turning to CMRS inspection for at grade section, the official said, “The safety commissioner has sent a proposal to   for rolling stock clearance. When the Board issues the same, CMRS will plan his visit.”
 
 Meanwhile, a conference of top officials of seven   — Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Kochi, Delhi, Nagpur and Jaipur — will be held here on February 9 and 10. “The managing directors and all the directors of these Metros will come to Nagpur for the conference. It will be first of its kind event in the city. The meetings will be held in the new building of Mahametro opposite Deekshabhoomi,” the official said.
 
 
