CHENNAI: More than 50 years after the idol of  , the most powerful ruler of the imperial Chola dynasty who built the grand Brihadeeswarar Temple (Big Temple) at  , went missing from the temple, the 1,000-year-old bronze statue along with his queen Lokamadevi will be reinstalled in a couple of days.

 Three months of investigation, weeks of meticulous strategising and the last 130 hours of careful execution of ‘Operation D’, led to the retrieval of the two bronze statues — estimated to be worth Rs150 crore in the global market — from the Calico museum in Ahmedabad,  . Four teams including idol wing police, archaeology experts and enthusiasts were involved in the mission. 
 
 Advocate Elephant  , who was part of Operation D, said the mission was kept under wraps for three months. "The last week was crucial for the mission with four teams departing from Chennai by train and air. Interestingly, one of the key members cancelled his flight ticket at the last moment and took a detour to reach Ahmedabad so that none could track the movement of the team members," he told TOI.
 
 All the teams landed at Calico museum in Ahmedabad on May 29 to take possession of the two idols. "With the assistance of the Gujarat police, the curator of the museum returned the idols without any objection," said Rajendran. The final hurdle came when airlines refused to allow the idols to be carried as cabin luggage, and they had to be ferried to Chennai by train, he added.
 
 On Thursday, when the Navjeevan Express from Ahmedabad rolled on to a   station platform with the idols, scores of people gave a rousing welcome with traditional devotional musical instruments being played on the platform. Inspector general of police A G  , who led the team that returned with the stolen idols, told reporters the statues would be installed at the Big Temple within three days. Noting that the idols would be handed over to a court at Thanjavur, he said, "The idols would be placed at his house (Big Temple).
 
 The retrieved bronze idols, measuring 73cm and 53cm respectively, are rare, as there only a few stone statues of the king found in four temples in Thanjavur. The idol wing carried out investigations based on evidence collected from books on antiques, annual report on South Indian epigraphy and stone inscriptions found below the mandapam in the northwestern part of the temple.
 
 At Chennai Central, minister for Tamil official language and Tamil culture K Pandiarajan said steps were being taken to recover more stolen idols from different parts of the world.
 
 
