ITANAGAR: The Union human resource development ministry appointed Hardeo Singh Yadav as the director of North East Regional Institute of Science and Technology (NERIST) on Tuesday following strong protests by the institution's students' union since February 27. The 34-year old institute has been without a regular director since 7 October, 2014. 

 "The appointment committee of the cabinet has approved the proposal, based on recommendation of the search-cum selection committee, to appoint   to the post of director, NERIST, on contractual basis for a period of five years from the date of assumption of charge," said a notification issued by department of higher education of the union HRD ministry on Tuesday.
 
 The students had resorted to rigorous agitation demanding the appointment of a regular director, whose post has been lying vacant since the last four years. A few of the students from the institute had been on hunger strike since March 1, as a result of which two students had to be hospitalized on Monday. Expressing solidarity with the agitating students, the All Arunachal Pradesh Students' Union (Aapsu) on Monday had called for a state-wide shut-down of higher educational institutes.
 
 Yadav is presently serving as the senior-most professor in the chemistry department of the institute. He had also served as the director in-charge of the deemed university from April 19, 2016 to March 26 last year, before being removed by the HRD ministry. Since then, Professor  , the vice-chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University, has been serving as the director in-charge of the institute.
 
 Meanwhile, the students and the employees of the institute have expressed their dissatisfaction with the appointment. "No one is happy with the decision of the ministry as we want a regular director from outside the institute. We will soon call a meeting of all the stakeholders and discuss our future," students' union president   said. NERIST Employees' Association general secretary   said they would go with the decision of the students.
 
 
