In this episode of  , the contestants wake up to the song Main Nikla Gaddi Leke.   and Akash try to convince luv that Hina is his best friend and he should apologize to her and talk to her. Luv refuses to listen to them and says that Hina should be the one saying sorry.

 Bigg Boss then announces that the four nominated contestants will be taken to a mall where there will be ballot voting. The evictions will happen with the votes that are collected in the mall. The contestants get excited and start dancing. Hina says that Shilpa will have an upper hand here as this is Maharashtra. 
 
 The contestants are then given a task where they have to debate about why the nominated contestants should get evicted. Akash accuses Hina of being unfair in tasks. Shilpa says that she has an habit of over reacting, Vikas says that she is active only in tasks and is antisocial. Luv says that she breaks rules as per her convenience. 
 
 Vikas accuses Luv for reacting to petty things. Hina agrees with VIkas. Hina and Luv have an heated argument. Hina breaks down and Vikas consoles her. HIna is deeply hurt by Luv's comments on her. 
 
 Puneesh tells Vikas that he is weak and gets depressed when he loses. Hina asks Vikas why he has become so boring. Luv asks Vikas how he can be so confident that he will win every task. Vikas tells Luv that he plays a dirty game. 
 
 The contestants then accuse Shilpa of being lonely and being in the kitchen all the time. Bigg Boss then calls the nominated contestants out via the main door. Puneesh and Akash think that they are safe in the evictions and are happy. 
 
 Puneesh and Akash sleep in the house while hundreds of people gather in a mall in Mumbai. Akash and Puneesh chill in the Jaccuzi. The fans chant VIkas, Hina, Shilpa and Luv's name.
 
 Due to the crowd being too much to handle, the contestants are sent back the BB house and the voting proceeds after they leave. They come back home and VIkas describes the whole scene to Puneesh and Akash. Luv and Vikas say that they have never experienced such a thing before. Bigg Boss calls the nominated contestants in the confession room and tells them to keep the Ballot box in the living area. The box will be opened when Bigg Boss asks them to open it. 
 
