To coincide with this week’s release of RJ-turned-actor Danish Sait’s Humble Politiciann   (HPN), the film team has launched/will be launching a mobile video game based on the characters from the movie. The game, very much in line with the character of its leading star, will feature a scheming, corrupt Nograj as the protagonist, who tries to escape with public money by overcoming obstacles that come in his way.

  
  
 
 The game is set in the streets of Bengaluru, with many of the city’s famous landmarks, such as Vidhana Soudha, Cubbon Park and  , making an appearance in the gameplay as Nograj eludes obstacle after another. The corrupt politician also enhances his life and points by picking up money and bribes along the way. “The gameplay is very similar to the game Subway Surfer, where the game’s protagonist is constantly running over subways and trying to escape the police, collecting coins, superpowers and health along the way. Here,we will see Nograj doing the same, only the coins will be bribes, the scenery is set in namma Bengaluru and instead of policemen, it will the citizens, who’s money Nograj has swindled, chasing him down. In the game, apart from running, you will even be able to see Nograj’s head swivel as he runs and feature some of his popular, original expressions from the movie,” says  .
 The game, which is available in certain app stores and yet to be rolled out fully, is one of the many innovative ways in which the film team has kept the movie in the news. But this isn’t the first time a Kannada film has had its own video game. In the past, Shivarajkumar’s Mass Leader, Sudeep’s   and Duniya Vijay’s   have similarly launched video games based on the movie to coincide with the launch of the film. “Video games are a very simple but effective way to familiarize the audiences with movie’s characters, especially when the gameplay is not complex. In the future, you’ll definitely see more movies having a video game version,” says the director of HPN,  .
 
