LUDHIANA: Residents are grappling with hot conditions prevailing in the city as the temperatures rise normal in Ludhiana. However, the good news for them is that the met department predicts rain in about a day. 

 As per the met department, the day temperature in Ludhiana was witnessed at degrees on Wednesday which is --degrees more than normal whereas the night temperature was recorded at 22.6 degrees which is five degrees more than the normal. However the relative humidity in the city was lower than the regular measurement and was recorded at 41% which is around 34% lower than normal.
 
 As the day temperature was witnessed at higher than the normal value, the met department forecast will cheer them up. “There are chances of rainfall on Friday and Saturday and the intensity of the same might be light. We are expecting around 10 mm of rainfall these days. The rain should bring the temperatures down in the city,” said director, met department, Chandigarh, Surender Paul. He added that partly cloudy condition is expected in the city on Thursday. 
 
 As per the met department website, the maximum temperature in the city is expected to fall to 33 degrees till Friday followed by an increase to 27 degrees till April 23. The minimum temperature is likely to drop to 20 degrees till April 21.
 
 Meanwhile, residents were seen battling with above normal weather temperatures in Ludhiana.
 
 “It has been very hot for the last few days. Even the nights, which were pleasant till about a week ago, are hot. The result is that we have to use air conditioners round the clock at office and at home due to hot conditions. Also I have to drink water many times as I feel thirsty”, said  , a businessman from Model Town. 
 
 Children too are fighting the hot conditions in the city. “I don’t step out of my home after I return from my school in the afternoon as it is very hot. After taking rest, I study for a while and then I go out to play in the evening as weather is not that hot at that time”, said  , a nine year old from Civil Lines. 
 
 
