CHENNAI: Residents of neighbourhoods around   urged the district administration not to acquire land for airport development at a public hearing held by Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board at Chennai airport on Wednesday. Though the hearing was for modernisation of the airport which will not require land acquisition, representatives of residents’ welfare associations from Pozhichallur demanded an assurance from the district collector of Kanchipuram and AAI authorities that there would not be any acquisition in the future.

 Majority of the residents, mostly from Cowl Bazaar and Pozhichalur areas, told collector P Ponniah who attended the meeting that they were living in fear whether their land would be acquired for the airport project because there were conflicting reports spreading about the need for expanding the airport though the government was looking for a second airport in another location.
 
 J C Arul Dhas of Federation of Residents Welfare Association of Pozhichallur said: “There are around 50,000 people in the village. We are supporting the airport expansion but what we ask is that will we get affected due to the expansion. A similar meeting took place in 2006 and we were assured that land would not be acquired but in 2007 we got notice to give land. So we don’t want that to happen again.”
 
 A few other residents who spoke said that majority of the people who live in the villages are middle class who have built or bought houses using their savings and that they would want a clarity about the land needed for future expansion. This demand came after airport director G Chandramouli said the current modernisation would not need land but AAI had asked the state government for 200 acres of additional land to set up runway lights and safety buffer zone for runways. 
 
 “We had asked for 200 acres but the state government asked us to reduce it to 150 acres and we have agreed to the suggestion,” he added. He also appealed to the residents who live near the airport to build houses after getting NOC because the entire length of the second runway could not be used to because of such buildings.
 
 Ponniah said, “Pozhichalur is not in the safety zone. Land will be acquired from Kolapakkam and Manapakkam and notification have already been issued. Defence land belonging to Officers’ Training Academy will also be taken for hangar and safety lights. We have suggested an alternate site for them. Around 2.98 acre have been acquired already from Cowl Bazar.”
 
 
