Subtle yet expressive, the sound of the   has been synonymous with this musician family for generations. They have not just mesmerised audiences in India, but have also managed to create a loyal base of Hindustani classical music lovers across the globe. Of course,   needs no introduction, but the sarod maestro and composer’s sons   and   have been equally appreciated for their brilliant works of the ancient 
 . Their jugalbandis have always been a favourite with Bengalureans, and their performance at the latest edition of the Times Swarsangam was also quite moving. In a leisurely conversation with 
  ahead of the concert, the brothers spoke about their latest musical collaborations, their fond memories of this city and more. Excerpts:

  
 
 
  
  We have collaborated with British-Indian violinist  . She is performing in India for the first time. We also have the tabla and mridangam. Obviously, the 
  are always played the way they are, but we have improvised on the classical notes for this collaboration. The pieces are planned, and it’s a written score. 
 
  
  It’s always a pleasure to come back to Bengaluru. For this new project, we have come out of our comfort zone to create something new and interesting. The idea is to have a safe landing in a beautiful destination.
 
  
 
 
  
  At the end of the day, you have to perform at a certain level, whether you’re playing solo or in collaboration. It’s always a big opportunity for us to perform with our father. We get his set of audience along with ours; it’s more educative and interactive. More than being an excelling artiste, it’s important to be a loved artiste. We both have been fortunate to receive audience appreciation over the past 30 years. Being the sons and disciples of a legend is not a pressure, but a responsibility. 
 
  
  Every concert is like performing on stage for the first time. More than the musical fireworks, it about the association we have built with the audience over the years. Our first performance in Bengaluru, which was some 20 years ago, was at Chowdiah Memorial Hall. So, it’s like homecoming for us every time we play at the venue. That’s the kind of universal bonding that music can create. 
 
  
 
 
  
  We usually spend our leisure time with friends and family. I also love to travel and catch some fresh air whenever possible. As a musician, that rejuvenation is important to stay focussed and creative. Playing tennis, running and going to the gym are also among my regular activities.
 
  
  Most of the time, we live out of a suitcase. So, whenever we are home we love to spend quality time with family, especially with my sons Zohaan and Abeer. They both are five-and-a-half years old now, and keep asking where we are going and when are we back. 
 
  
 
 
  
  It’s too early to say anything. But they are very excited about the whole prospect of being on stage. They keep watching clips on the internet. Of course, they have a lot of music around. It’s a long journey, and hopefully they will understand the seriousness of it as they grow older. I’ll be happy if they choose music, but they are free to do what they want.
 
  
 
 
  
  When we were growing up, it was very evident that our parents wanted us to take up music. Plus, I was never good at studies. I never enjoyed the Indian education system. Physics and chemistry were very difficult for me, as was maths. It’s an irony that music is all about calculations and aesthetics. And that’s how I got more interested in music, and it made me happy to see my parents happy about what I was doing. That they feel proud to see me perform still gives me a high, pushes me to do better. 
 
  
  Our mother, Subhalaksmi Khan, have always had a great influence in our life. When we were young and our father used to travel with his music, our mother left no stone unturned to convey what music means for the family. It’s has been our wealth, way of life and value system, and not just a profession. I had been interested in playing the sarod from a very young age. But as you grow older, you understand that it’s not just about sitting on stage and looking cute. A lot of factors are involved in it — be it the craft or its magnitude.
 
  
 
 
  
  People are now very selective about what and who they want to hear, thanks to social media and the latest advances in technology. At a time now when any form of entertainment is just a click away, if you are stepping out of your house to see somebody perform means that you really like that artiste. It’s more challenging now keep the attention of the audience. 
 
  
  To perform in front of a packed auditorium, where the audiences are ready with their phones to take pictures and videos that are instantly uploaded on social media, is quite a challenge for every artiste.
 
  
 
 
  
  We are collaborating with Karsh Kale for a new album, titled 
 , which should get released next month. It’s more of electronic music, and meant for the younger generation. There are more shows coming up with Karsh both in India and the US. 
 
  
  We are also performing with the Moscow State Symphony Orchestra at the end of this month, followed by a show with the Bronx Arts Ensemble in New York in April. Cut to music for films, we hope to do music for films in the near future. Interesting movies are being made these days, where there is scope for our kind of music, beyond just taking one 
  from one point to the other.
 
  
 
 
  
  There is a lot of high energy in Bengaluru. Everyone is on a mission here, in a good way. One constantly gets this vibe that everyone is achieving something in this city. Also, there are some lovely hangout joints. People are lively and educated. Compared to some other cities in country, Bengaluru is also safer. 
 
  
  Bengaluru is a beautiful amalgamation of north and south India. We have fond memories of a TV show that we had hosted many moons ago, and it was held at the Bangalore Palace. Some of our most memorable concerts took place in Bengaluru.
 
 
