NEW DELHI:   always has big boots to fill, whether he’s playing for the national team or his   franchise. The powerful wicketkeeper-batsman from Pretoria is South Africa’s second-choice stumper and played second fiddle to England’s Jos Buttler in his first IPL season too. Brought in by Rajasthan Royals to replace the ‘banned’ Steve Smith, Klaasen was bought at his base price of Rs 50 lakh. The Royals scouts were impressed with his match-winning knocks in the ‘Pink-ODI’ and T20 against the visiting Indians earlier this year.

 
 
 
 
 “IPL has been a wonderful experience so far and a great eye-opener. I have never played in front of such packed and loud crowds. The conditions here are so different as well,” Klaasen told TOI ahead of the IPL   match against Kolkata Knight Riders on Wednesday.
 
 The South African revealed that it was a tense Sunday for himself and his Royals teammates as they waited to see if their franchise would progress to the playoffs. “I was just watching the matches on my bed in my room but some of the other Royals players had gathered in the team room of the hotel. There was loud hooting from the team room every time a Mumbai (Indians) wicket fell on Sunday evening. It was quite tense till the Mumbai match but once that was over we knew it was going to be a very tough task for Kings XI Punjab,” the 26-year-old said.
 
 Earlier this season, his South African teammate   revealed that it was Klaasen’s inputs that helped him turn his form around in red-ball cricket. “Actually we got to talking during a game at Benoni between the Titans and the Warriors. I had scored a century there and AB was just finding his way. We both have similar trigger movements, so after talking about our game, I think AB got back to his basics. In fact, reading AB’s thoughts in the newspaper last month helped me as well. I helped me rectify my technique as well when I was struggling for form after the first two IPL games,” he added.
 
 Klaasen impressed with his secure wicketkeeping against leg-spinners Shreyas Gopal and Ish Sodhi on a turning Jaipur track against RCB in the last match. “I honed my game against spin bowling during the SA National Academy tour of Sri Lanka a couple of years back. Coach Shukri Conrad had a big role to play in improving my ’keeping and batting against spin. Wicketkeeping helps me out in picking leg-spinners as well because I am able to grasp the variations better right from the bowlers’ hand,” Klaasen, who hammered a 30-ball 69 against Indian spinner Yuzvendra Chahal and Kuldeep Yadav in a T20I game in Centurion, said.
 
 At the business end of the tournament, Royals will bank on Klaasen’s class to tackle the wily Kolkata Knight Riders spinners on Wednesday.
 
 
