PUTHENCRUZ: A   at Vadayampadi turned violent on Sunday as police arrested 50 persons while right-wing activists shouted slogans against the  .  , children and elderly activists were dragged into a police van and taken to   police station at around 11 am. On hearing the news, a large number of dalit activists arrived at Puthencruz to join the protest.

 The group raised slogans inside the station and protesters in small groups arrived there with a portrait of Ambedkar. Later, the arrested group was released on bail by 1pm. They were protesting against the denial of right to hold functions at an open ground near a temple which NSS claimed was their property. Over 1,000 dalits attended the convention, a day after the collector arranged a ‘settlement’, giving them right of way.
 
 “No prohibitory order was issued against the gathering at a public place 0.5km away from Vadayampadi. We were raising slogans when RSS ‘goons’ – who took up the issue for   (NSS) – made derogatory comments at us. The police were quick to arrest us but they did not touch RSS men,” said a protester.
 
 At least four journalist filed a police complaint that they were manhandled by RSS activists while covering the protests. The protesters were activists who arrived at Vadayampadi at the behest of residents. Nearly 180 dalit families stay in three colonies around Vadayampadi.
 
 “The so called settlement offers us only namesake access through the ground. We have to seek the collector’s permission to hold family functions there. What is the purpose of such a settlement? Is there a guarantee that authorities will give us permission next time,” asked a resident, who stays near the temple.
 
 He added that the dalits here are not empowered enough to continue their struggle. “I run a commercial establishment that caters to everyone and I can’t lose my business. Just because I shared a Facebook post in support of the protest, I am now being tagged as a Maoist by many. Many residents offer support but refrain from actively participating in our struggle fearing ostracization,” said another resident on condition of anonymity.
 
 Meanwhile, NSS Karayogam claimed ownership of the disputed property. They claimed that a wall was constructed as part of renovating the temple. “They know we own the property and had even sought written permissions from us to hold functions. We don’t mind them conducting a function as long as they maintain the sanctity of the temple. We oppose external forces that are trying to take advantage of the residents,” said NSS Karayogam president Ramesh Kumar B.
 
 
