Looks like   did his bit to pretty up for his first show in Vizag. He underwent a root canal treatment! “I did not want to come to your city with bad teeth,” he says flashing a wide smile flaunting his pearly whites. “I have never been here but have family in the Navy and have heard only good things about  ,” says the celebrated stand-up who performed in the city on Republic Day.

 Being funny, it seems, is just a matter of being himself. “It’s about being in my 30s, as I am, questioning who I am and finding humour in religion, politics, love, finances and more. It’s all about how I view the world as an adult coupled with anecdotes from my childhood as well,” he says adding, “But I’d never crack jokes about ‘Mera Bharat Mahaan’. I’m patriotic, so my comedy is very respectful towards the country. But I do talk about our country, the government and more.”
 
 Recently, when a well-known politician said that ‘nobody ever saw an ape turning into a man’ while referring to Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution, Vir Das couldn’t help but shoot back. “Guys. I just wanted to let you know Darwin was wrong. No one saw ape turn into man. No evidence. I mean such a huge event and not one selfie taken? That doesn’t seem right (sic),” he posted.
 
 Making light of controversies is just his way of lighting up the atmosphere. “I think serious situations provide a great scope for humour... after all, funny situations are funny by themselves, ” he explains smiling.
 
 Reports about Vir Das starring in Kamal Haasan’s upcoming film   were doing the rounds recently. Ask him about that and he says, “Talks were on, but I haven’t confirmed the film. I have two other films and web series lined up.”
 
 Whether acting in films, performing on TV or in a web series, it’s all about reaching out to the widest possible audience, he thinks. “For me, they all blend into each other because I feel more like a content creator. The audience these days is able to consume content across various platforms,” he says.
 
 Ten years down the line, Vir Das is still going strong, managing to tickle the funny bones of many. So what’s his secret? He reveals: “I like to reach the venue early and peek at the audience from behind the curtain. I keep in mind who looks fun or cranky or even out of place. I pick up the energy from the room and work on that."
 
 Bidding adieu, we ask him, would he be offended if someone randomly walked up to him and asked him to say something funny? He quips, “I would ask them to buy a ticket to my show, then I’ll say many funny things for a long time.” Touché.
 
