CHANDIGARH: The new notebooks which have the name of school imprint on them are burning a hole in parents’ pockets in the absence of any check by the  . The list of book sets reveals that the prices of notebooks vary from school to school. The notebooks without any school name can be bought from wholesalers for around Rs 20-25. While, those stamped with school names are priced between Rs 35 to Rs 50. The scenario is similar with the uniforms having school logo.

 The   authorities have stated that the notebooks are stamped for uniformity and it creates a sense of belonging to the school.
 
 In the past as well, parents have given representations on the issue to the director of school education several times through   (CPA). However, no action has been taken by the department.
 
 The CPA had requested DSE to issue directions that school uniforms should not display the school’s logo and name in February 2017. Schools should not prescribe the colour and shade of uniforms, so the parents can get the uniforms stitched from anywhere. The same was stated for notebooks.
 
 Only a few schools allow parents to buy notebooks from anywhere and without any logo in UT. “We used to have covers with school’s name imprint on books in our time. The notebooks used to be cheap. But, nowadays the notebooks alone cost Rs 35 to Rs 45. We are glad that our school allowed us to buy notebooks from anywhere this time. We returned these and bought the notebooks from a wholesaler. We got them for as cheap as Rs 22,” said  , a parent of class III and V students.
 
 “The notebooks alone were priced at Rs 50 which according to me is exorbitant. My total expenditure on 13 notebooks was Rs 650 while I had to shell out Rs 150 more on test copies,” said Nisha Bohat, mother of a Class IV student. She stated that the entire set cost her Rs 4,898. “It is unfortunate to witness that education has become a business. Books, stationery and uniforms have become branded commodities. Parents are forced to buy the branded products recommended by schools which do not add any intrinsic value to the education of a child. The schools must explain how a school branded notebook is better than a notebook available in the free market,” said Shilpi Kambo. “Why is this branding needed after all. The schools are using our children for free advertisement and rather charging heavily for this cheap branding and authorities are deaf to it, “ said another parent Jaspreet Singh.
 
 “School logo ensures the organized loot of the private schools because logo materials are available only on designated shops and not available on any other shop. Education authorities must pay attention, “said Ajay bansal, a parent. s“It’s abbout uniformity and same goes for bags and notebooks. Quality control is another issue,” said director of a school that has notebooks with logos, requesting anonimity.
 
 Nitin Goyal, president of Chandigarh Parents Association, said, “Most private schools prescribe multiple uniforms including track suits, t-shirts, blazers and denims citing some trivial reason and then cleverly affix school logo to leave parents with no other option but to buy the same from a few designated shops at exorbitant rates. The education department has turned a blind eye towards this issue, even though we have been complaining for the past 2 years.” ABS Sidhu, vice-president of Independent Schools Association, said, “Students take pride and it also instils a sense of belonging to the school. Uniforms help children feel of a special identity just like army and this is the sole reason. It will also create a sense of solidarity. They (students) will feel that bags and books are made especially for them. The school identity will also become unique as they might feel that the stationary has been ordered for them. It’s like having your own letterhead. But except for the uniform and crest we have discontinued with the rest.
 
 The Science and Maths subject notebooks in senior classes and English and Hindi notebooks in junior classes have the highest price and a complete set costs over Rs 4,000.
 
 
