BENGALURU: Once a premier destination to buy groceries,   in Shivajinagar has fallen down the ladder, thanks largely to the filth and stench in and around the market. Now, if the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara   (BBMP) has its way, the market could get a makeover.

 Residents and traders had complained that waste from other wards was being dumped in the market, a heritage structure. This, along with irregular garbage clearance, poor lighting and accumulation of waste from meat shops, made the market unbearably dirty. However, a recent meeting of members of the traders’ association with the BBMP’s town-planning standing committee and the solid waste management wing offers hope of a long-term solution.
 
 Shakeel  , chairman of the BBMP standing committee on town planning, said the civic agency is committed to ensuring the well-being of the market. The Palike has planned to step up security measures, improve lighting and ensure that no waste is dumped from other areas in the market. 
 
 “The joint commissioner has promised that he will ensure no waste from other wards is dumped here,” Ahmed said. “We will instal four gates, two each at the front and back. We will also instal 15-20 LED streetlights and eight to 10 CCTV cameras to prevent dumping at odd hours.”
 
 Ahmed admitted that people from other areas like Johnson Market, Vasanth Nagar and   were dumping waste in the market. “For a long time, waste from wards 91 (Bharathi Nagar) and 92 (Shivajinagar) was being dumped at the back of the market, making the lives of locals a hell,” he said. “We will ensure this is stopped. The budget for all the work will be around Rs 30 to 40 lakh.”
 
 For  , 60, who has lived close to the back gate of the market all his life, the proposed changes are a huge relief. “The stench is unimaginable,”   said. “All meat waste is dumped here and it is not cleaned regularly. Even the pourakarmikas can’t tolerate the odour. We keep our windows shut all year round. It is also unhygienic as it sits in the sun and rots resulting in a huge mosquito population. The devoted coming and going from the mosque and church have to cover their noses. You can get the stench at the Shivajinagar bus stand itself and even patients at   are affected.”
 
 According to Mohammed Idrees Choudhury, secretary of the Russell Market traders association, the new facilities will solve a 30-year-old problem. “For a place that is so widely sought after by tourists, there was no protection,” Idrees said. “Waste from two wards was being dumped here and the site at the back of the market had practically become a segregation point for mixed waste. There was no way to stop the dumping since it was being done at odd hours. The BBMP’s proposal is a huge relief to people who work in the 475 shops here. From our side, we will station eight security guards to man the gates.” The ward engineer revealed that work could commence in a month’s time.
 
 
 
 
 Idrees claimed if the work is completedon time, the association could resume Market Day celebrations again. Market Day, usually held around Christmas, has not been celebrated since 1983. A feature that had continued from the British era, revelry from the church would spill on to the streets and traders would showcase their best wares.
 
 “Every year weusedto put up a show on December 24-25,” Idreessaid. “There would be a small entry fee and it would be an excuse for the vegetable, fruit, fish and mutton shop owners to bring out their best. This would be judged by the mayor and officials from the horticulture department and medals would be awarded. This is our home and we hope we will be able to celebrate it this yearend.”
 
 
 
