NOIDA: A day after arresting three men for trying to extort Rs 2 crore from a   in Noida, the police arrested the fourth man in the case from  . The gang, which was nabbed after a  , had attempted to extort the money to finance their accomplice Vikas’s marriage, police has found out. 

 On Saturday, the police had arrested Azad Sharma (26), Vikas and Sanju (26) after a shootout in Sector 81. The criminals had opened fire at businessman Umesh Vij’s BMW on Monday night and had threatened him of dire consequences if he did not pay the money.
 
 Arvind (26), the fourth accomplice, who was nabbed on Sunday, was the one who had told his accomplices about Vij. 
 
 Arun Kumar Singh, SP (city) Noida, said that Arvind used to work as a driver with Vij’s associate company in Noida. 
 
 He sometimes visited the businessman’s house and knew that he was well-off. 
 
 In 2015, Arvind fled with a company car to Haridwar without informing his employer. He switched off his phone and made no communication, prompting his employer to register an FIR. 
 
 He was arrested after this complaint.
 
 During interrogation, Arvind said that he met Azad Sharma a few months ago while they were both in Tihar Jail. Azad was in judicial custody in a case of cheating. They were released from jail three months ago. When Azad’s friend Vikas needed some money to get married, Azad expressed his inability to arrange the money. It was then that Arvind suggested that they make an   call to Vij. He shared the businessman’s contact number and other details with his accomplice. 
 
 The accused called the businessman repeatedly from several stolen phones to threaten him. 
 
 “How long will you run the company in police protection? Once the PCR van leaves the company, your wicket will fall,” the accused had threatened the businessman. In a tactical move, the police removed the PCR van from outside the company. The police team then chased the criminals and arrested them in an encounter. A pistol, three country-made guns, four mobile phones, a bike and some used cartridges were recovered from the accused. 
 
 “Sanju and Arvind were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Azad and Vikas, who sustained bullet injuries from the shootout, are undergoing treatment in district hospital,” said an officer.
 
 
