MUMBAI:  ' stellar domestic season culminated in the 17-year-old getting a maiden call-up for India's ODI and T20 squad that left for South Africa in the early hours of Wednesday morning. She scored runs by the bagful, including a double ton (202* runs) against Saurashtra and 178 runs against Gujarat in the U-19 one-day league in November last year. She also claimed19 wickets in the tournament, bowling off-spin. Rodrigues notched up 179 runs (in three innings) in the Challenger Trophy that followed, and literally forced her way into the senior national side.

 Speaking to reporters, hours prior to the team's departure, Rodrigues, who is the youngest member of the touring party said: "I am a bit nervous. But I am really looking forward to the South Africa tour. It's my first trip with the Indian team. Everyone has supported me really well and they have not made me feel like I am a new girl. They have gelled nicely with me. I am a bit nervous, but I am excited too," she said, a pleasant smile writ large on her face.
 
 Rodrigues is part of a dressing room that consists of veterans of the calibre of ODI skipper   and bowler  . And, the Mumbai girl said she is learning a great deal from them. "The first time I saw them, I got very nervous. Mithali Raj is my idol in Indian cricket and seeing her batting and working so hard in the nets is an inspiration for me. The commitment and effort the seniors put in even at their age is amazing. I am glad and looking forward to many more experiences with them."
 
 The skipper too acknowledged, Rodrigues' talent and commitment, saying: "Jemimah scored a lot of runs at the U-19 level as well as in the Challenger Trophy. She is very promising and as a captain my only wish is that she performs whenever she gets opportunity. Also, she is a very good fielder. In fact, she is amongst the best fielders in the team. So, when she is with us, the ambiance automatically becomes chirpy."
 
 Rodrigues believes her entry into the Indian squad is the culmination of pure hard work. So, what were the tips that she picked up in the camp and what was the general atmosphere like? "Everybody was really supportive. Talking about tips, they would come up to me individually in the nets -- like when I was batting with   or Poona di (Raut) and give me some feedback. That's really good. It's fun and exciting to be with the team." 
 
