BENGALURU: After a near two-month break, ace Indian golfer   is looking to continue from where he left off in November. Having begun the new season (  starts usually in October) in fine fashion, with two top-10 finishes in four starts, the 30-year-old gets back into tournament mode at the EurAsia Cup that begins in Shah Alam, Malaysia, on Friday. Thirtieth in the Fedex Cup rankings and ranked No. 68 in the world, the 30-year-old said winning in America was his main target. 

 
 
 
 
 It is a great way to start the year because you have to switch everything on, there is no sitting around and coming out of a holiday mode. Now it is down to business, you have to start performing.
 
 
 I have a decent record in singles but I haven't done so well in the four-balls. I would like to improve on it. Hopefully we can contend for the Cup. It is very important for us to get off to a good start.
 
 
 It wasn't difficult. I was playing well and would have loved to continue playing but the thing is I did have the option of playing maybe in Asia or Europe but I made a conscious decision to not play. I think it is equally important to give your body a break. Despite not having played a tournament in the last 50 days and by the time I get to the US Open in June, I would have already played15 events.
 
 
 We have been chipping away at a number of things. A lot of it had to do with my approach on the golf course. Also, we had to work a lot on making a change regarding my equipment. I will be switching to Callaway from Srixon after 10 years as a pro. Now I am making a massive switch and most of the time in the last one month was dedicated to transitioning, getting everything in order. I have done a lot more short-game work this off-season than I have in the previous years, which is a very good thing. I’m happy that I came down and spent some quality time. I felt like I was 18 again, living out of a bachelor pad and eating and drinking golf.
 
 
 The targets have remained the same over the last two years. I am still pressing for my first win. That is definitely on top of my list. I have a got a little bit of time and I have got to try and chase down getting into Augusta (Masters). There are so many things to do. It is not the Presidents Cup year so at least that is one less thing to focus on but obviously the first win and the Majors will become the target. And also try and move up the world rankings and see if I can better my career-best (No. 33).
 
