Patiala: Facebook handler of Shera Khubban group, who was operating the social media page maintained in the name of the criminals led by slain gangster Vicky Gounder from Cyprus, was arrested by the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of Punjab police from the IGI airport in Delhi after he landed here in the wee hours of Monday.

 The police said a lookout circular had also been issued against Sumit Keshwa by the OCCU after the intelligence wing of the state police identified him as the main operator of the FB page, which was being used to upload various posts glorying the acts of gangsters. In some of the posts, he also tried to spread various ideologies.
 
 Sumit, who hails from Ludhiana, had migrated to Cyprus a few years back and was now settled there. His name has been incorporated in the FIR that had been registered at Rajpura Sadar police station on October 23, 2017, under Sections 392 (punishment for robbery), 382 (theft after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint in order to commit theft), 384 (punishment for extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly) and Section 22 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and Section 25 of the Arms Act.
 
 A police officer on the condition of anonymity said that the OCCU had prepared a detailed profile of all posts that had been uploaded by Sumit on the said FB page. He said that it was through these social media pages that sympathisers of the gangsters tried to glorify their acts by uploading posts from foreign shores. He further said Sumit was being brought back from Delhi and would be produced before a court, where the police would seek his remand to interrogate him further about his links with gangsters and his involvement in various crimes.
 
 After being brought back from Delhi, Sumit was produced before a court in Rajpura, which sent him to five-day police remand.
 
 BOX: The Facebook threat
 
 A senior cop said it was Sumit who had uploaded the threat on the FB page to kill six policemen to avenge the killings of Vicky Gounder and his two accomplices, including Prema Lahoria, who were gunned down in a police encounter in Hindu Mal Kot area on the Punjab-Haryana border on January 26. In the threat, Sumit had claimed “Whatever happened today is unfortunate. Vicky will continue to live in our hearts. We had warned you to take proper action. We had already told you that you will kill one, then we will kill two. Now, six of yours will die. We will let you know how someone’s son is killed. We will surely avenge Vicky’s death.” The message further threatened the cops, “When your own will die, only then you will realise. You did your job, now it is our turn.”
 
 
