KOLKATA: Kidneys from a deceased donor were transplanted in night-long simultaneous operations by two teams of surgeons at   Hospital. The twin operations that began around Wednesday midnight concluded around 5am on Thursday.

  
  
 
 
 The second deceased donor transplant of the year in the state comes only after a month and half and marks a revival of the movement that had gained momentum in 2016 with six transplants before it floundered last year when only one donation had happened.
 
 Sucheta Sarkar (64) from  , who had suffered a stroke, was admitted to   in the wee hours of Sunday and she slipped into coma on Wednesday morning. The hospital’s internal committee assessed her condition and initiated the process of declaring brain stem death. Once the team found the parameters matching brain death, the health department was alerted. The former field officer with   was declared brain dead around 1.30pm.
 
 In the meantime, officials at the hospital apprised the patient’s relatives of an opportunity to utilize her organs through donation for transplants. With the patient’s husband Nihar Kanti Sarkar giving a nod to the proposal, the hunt began for recipients.
 
 “When doctors told me that her organs could save others, I agreed after taking consent of both my family and that of my wife’s. She lived till 64,” Sarkar remarked.
 
 RTIICS as the parent institution (the hospital where the brain death occurred) had a claim to a kidney with the other going to a government hospital. But with RTIICS declining to undertake a transplant given the advanced age of the donor and the marginal condition of the kidneys, the organs were retrieved at RTIICS and transported to SSKM. The liver, however, was not retrieved despite being in good condition due to non availability of a suitable recipient and the heart was not in good condition.
 
 At SSKM, nephrology department identified several potential recipients who were asked to report at the earliest.
 
 “The cross match led to identification of two recipients. The transplant surgery began around midnight and got over only around 5am,” said Arpita Roy Chowdhury, (joint director)   (ROTTO). The conditions of the transplanted patients are still critical. Doctors said it would take a few days before they could ascertain if the kidneys were functioning normally. “The patients are not in bad shape. But given the marginal nature of the kidneys transplanted, we are keeping fingers crossed,” a doctor said.
 
 State organ donation nodal officer Aditi Kishore Sarkar said the second donation at the start of the fourth month this year was an extremely encouraging sign and will boost the morale of everyone associated with the organ donation movement. “People are no longer ignorant of brain death and organ donation. When approached, they are giving their consent. That is extremely encouraging,” he said. Also, the declaration of brain death at RTIICS, the second at the hospital after the last one in 2016, re-ignites the initiative from private hospitals that had taken a lead role in brain death declarations in 2016.
 
 The first cadaver organ donation this year took place on February 21 at SSKM. Two kidneys of Deepshikha Samanta, an engineering student from Haldia Instiuite of Technology, were transplanted successfully to two renal failure patients in the same hospital.
 
