SHILLONG:   in   on Monday, which will witness a face-off between the ruling National People's Party (NPP) and opposition Congress, will determine who claims the position of the single largest party. Both NPP and Congress have 20 members each in the 60-member assembly. 

 Election to the constituency was necessitated after former chief minister   won both Ampati and Songsak seats. He decided to vacate Ampati, which he had won for six consecutive terms, and retained Songsak. Keeping it all in the family, his daughter Miani D Shira is contesting as a Congress candidate. She is going up against NPP loyalist Clement G Momin and the lone Independent candidate Subhankar Koch. While the primary contest is between NPP and Congress, the Independent candidate is expected to cut into the vote share of each party.
 
 Congress, with 21 seats, had become the single largest party in the assembly election. NPP was a close second with 19 seats. However, Congress lost one seat when Mukul Sangma gave up his seat and NPP gained a seat after winning the Williamnagar seat - election to which had been countermanded earlier after NCP candidate   was killed in a rebel attack. This brought both parties to a seat tally of 20, which they hope to cross with the Ampati seat.
 
 NPP, which has been on a steady victory path, appealed to the electorate to make their vote count by choosing the ruling party. Congress, on the other hand, counts on its stronghold to stay loyal to the party. The campaign has been a high-voltage one, with both parties filing FIRs against each other for "flouting the model code of conduct". 
 
 "The constituency has 24,181 voters. All preparations have been made for the election to be conducted in a smooth and peaceful manner," a state election officer said. Security has been strengthened across the constituency to ensure peaceful polling, scheduled to begin at 7am and end at 4pm on Monday. Central forces are assisting the state police to maintain law and order. Results of the byelection will be declared on May 31.
 
 
