

 MOHALI: Even a month after the ministry of road transport and highways imposed a ban on using bull bars and metal crash guards on vehicles, police in the Tricity have done little for enforcement.
 
 With police looking the other way, motorists are freely driving vehicles fitted with barred accessories. Also, sale of such accessories continue to go unchecked.
 
 While the traffic police officials in Chandigarh claimed since they have received the orders, awareness drives will be carried out before challans are issued. The traffic police in   have challaned only 15 vehicles since January 1, which are very less given the huge number of vehicles moving around the city with banned fitments on them.
 
 
  
 
 Mohali deputy superintendent of police (traffic)   said, “We will soon crack down on the menace and the offenders will be also fined.”
 
 Police claimed it takes a while for people and cops as well to understand the new rules. Once it becomes a routine, the violation will not only be checked but removed, they said.
 
 The   traffic police, however, started fining the offenders since January 5, but has a long way to go in order to curb the menace completely.
 
 Surender Singh, station house officer (traffic), Panchkula, said, “Challans are being issued to offenders and action taken against people selling the crash guards.”
 
 In its letter to all principal secretaries and secretaries (transport), the ministry had asked the authorities to act against the violators.
 
 The main reason behind the ban is that crash guards obstruct the usage of airbags at the time of collision, jeopardising the lives of the driver and passengers. Moreover, the bull bar and crash guards can cause major injuries to pedestrians and two-wheeler riders at the time of accidents.
 
 Times View
 
 Motorists get bull bars and metal crash guards installed on their vehicles to prevent damage to the headlights and bumpers, little knowing that these can endanger their lives. The guards are known to impede the opening of airbags in case of a road crash. The use of these accessories may be barred by law, but do most vehicle owners know this? Before the law enforcers crack down on the vehicle owners who have got these guards fixed on their cars, there is a need to create awareness regarding these being illegal.
 
 
 
 
 The bull bar and crash guards, are still available at several shops at motor accessories market in Sector 28, Manimajra, and Sector 48. Shopkeepers, however, claim the demand has come down since the orders were issued.  , accessories dealer, said, “We have not ordered any new consignment of the banned fitment, while the remaining stock is still with us. Some of the SUV owners have removed heavy crash guards .”
 
 
