BENGALURU: A 30-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly stabbing to death a 29-year-old homemaker, his former girlfriend, after she refused to divorce her husband and marry him. 

 On December 27, 2017, Taslima Banu was stabbed to death in her residence in Sunkadakatte by   from Sirsi in Uttara Kannada district, north Karnataka. Mubin was picked up from   recently.
 
  police said  , also from Sirsi, was earlier keen on marrying Mubin, her then boyfriend. A school dropout, Mubin was arrested on theft charges in 2006 and sent to jail in 2009 for two years. 
 
 “Banu’s parents chose a Bengaluru-based man, who runs a welding shop in Kamakshipalya, for their daughter. The marriage took place in 2008 and Banu shifted to Sunkadakatte. The couple had two children including a daughter,” police said.
 
 Mubin, after completing his jail term in 2011, went to Saudi Arabia and worked as a driver before returning to Sirsi in early 2017. Mubin told police that he was in constant touch with Banu and was regularly sending her gifts from abroad. He was desperate to marry Banu but she refused saying she had to take care of her children, police said.
 
 On the ill-fated day, Mubin came to Banu’s home when her husband was away at work and children had gone to school. “After heated arguments, a furious Mubin took a knife from kitchen, stabbed her and fled with gold ornaments,” police said. 
 
 
 
 Mubin had tattooed Taslima Banu’s name on his left forearm and that helped police in identifying the murderer. 
 
 Police, who had spotted an empty cup with traces of lemon juice in it at the crime scene, came to the conclusion that it was not a murder for gain and the woman knew her killer. 
 
 “A neighbour said a youth was seen at the house on the day of the crime. A closer scanning of CCTV cameras from surrounding area showed the suspect had a huge tattoo on left forearm. While interacting with the woman’s family, we came to know about her earlier friendship with Mubin. He had tattooed her name on his forearm and could not deny that he still coveted her,” cops said. 
 
 
