Jaipur: In an inspection conducted in compliance with the Supreme Court’s orders, child welfare committee (CWC), Kota found glaring discrepancies in Emmanuel Mission and its associated institutes in Dadwana area in Kota.

 The CWC alleged that in records, there is just a mention of death of a boy with a registration number R1000766. His father’s name is mentioned as Deepak Patric. But there is no other record of his health and medical records are not available with Emmanuel Mission.
 
 “We have demanded his medical records but they have not provided us the same. Now, we are taking help from the police to find his medical record,” said Harish Gurbaxani, chairman child welfare committee, Kota.
 
 He said that the inspections were conducted in compliance with Supreme Court’s order. The state government has to send details of children in care and protection of the government to the Supreme Court.
 
 Gurbaxani alleged that they have found that the number of children in its (Emmanuel Mission) three homes in Kota are much less in comparison to the number of children actually present in the  . “According to the registration records of Emmanuel Mission, there are 826 children in one home. But when we counted only 564 were available. When we asked them, they told us that they have left the place,” he said.
 
 “When we asked them, with whom the 262 children had left the place, they did not have any satisfactory reply. Now, we will write to child welfare committee and police of the respective states to send report if these children have reached their homes. These children belong to Bihar, Manipur, Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan. Until we receive reports from different states, we will consider these children as missing,” he said.
 
 Gurbaxani said that the Emmanuel Mission is claiming that it is running a hostel but they have mentioned in the websites and other documents as an orphanage. Also, they have affidavits from parents of children mentioning that they were underprivileged and were unable to take care of these children. “In such a situation, these children come under government for their protection and care as per the provisions of Juvenile Justice Act,” he said.
 
 Last week, a state government panel headed by chairman of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Kota sealed the office and room of Emmanuel Mission and its associated institutions in Dadwana area under Bheemganjmandi police station.
 
 The mission management, despite repeated notices and panel’s visit to the institution, had failed to provide registration papers and other relevant documents.
 
 
