HYDERABAD: There are over 50,000   in Telangana who own more than five acres each and have a total of 4.11 lakh acres. But are they  ? Officials said only a few of them are rich.

 According to them, these Dalits may be called poor landlords as a substantial number of these families are sitting on barren land with no income on it while many others own assigned land, which is land they can cultivate but not sell. But if the entire SC population in the state is taken into consideration, most of them are below the poverty line and work as agriculture labourers. 
  
 
 
 A survey conducted by the state government to identify poor landless SC families has revealed that there are 3.3 lakh SC families who do not own an inch of land and need to be covered under the three acres land distribution sop announced by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao.
 
 The survey also brought to the fore other interesting facts about SCs in the state. Over 50,000 SC families own more than five acres. Also, there are 33,089 SC households who own more than four acres but less than five acres, together totalling over 1.5 lakh acres. Another 50,193 SC families own more than three acres but less than four acres, accounting for 1.76 lakh acres together. Likewise, 85,000 SC families own land between two and three acres totalling 13 lakh acres.
 
 Telangana SC Co-Operative Development Corporation Limited general manager B Anand Kumar told TOI that a majority of the land owned by SCs are not fit for agriculture. The TRS government is now giving land on which agriculture can be done. “There could be a few rich SC households but a majority of them are poor and are covered under various welfare schemes being offered by the state government,” he said.
 
 Dalit leaders said that while the TRS government should keep up its promise of distributing three acre fertile land to poor landless SCs, a serious attempt should be made to provide irrigation facilities to the Dalits, who already own land but are not earning anything on it.
 
  working president   said that the survey is a testimony that successive Congress governments have distributed lakhs of acres to SCs in the undivided state covering the regions of Telangana, Andhra and Rayalaseema. “But, the KCR government has so far distributed less than 15,000 acres covering less than 7,000 beneficiaries. KCR had promised three acres and SCs had trusted him and voted TRS to power. However, the party has violated the agreement by not fulfilling its promise. This needs a judicial review,” he said.
 
 
