Pune: The Centre’s claims attributing prevailing cash crunch to higher withdrawals does not find support in the available official data. The RBI data on cash withdrawals from ATMs shows that withdrawal increase has been rather slow over the past two years. Withdrawal data is available only till February this year and it shows the average withdrawal per transaction of Rs 3,447 in the month. This is barely Rs 500 more than what it was over two years ago on January 2016. Some people withdraw multiple times, therefore, averages can skew what happens at the individual level, which is not possible to determine with available data. Besides, the data shows that there is no co-relation between average withdrawal per transaction and the currency notes in circulation. For instance: The notes in circulation as on February 2018 was more or less similar to what it was in July of 2016. However, the average ATM withdrawal increased by about Rs 500 in the 19-month period ended February 2018. Similarly, although the currency in circulation was lower in January 2016, the average withdrawal was higher that month compared with six months hence. Also, even if one accepts the explanation that there has been a spurt in withdrawals in the last fortnight or so (for which, the real data will be available in June), cash in circulation — for which data is available — has shown a marked rise in March and in the first week of April. Most of the explanation as to where the cash went is in the realm of hypothesis. “We really do not know where the cash went. We think people withdrew in huge quantities and we are sure that the money is not coming back as it should,” a top official of a public sector bank said. The veracity of the explanation that cash was withdrawn hugely in the last fortnight will be reflected only when the RBI publishes its bulletin for containing data of March and April. For now, we have to rely on anecdotal evidence. Currency managers who watch this space carefully said they have seen an increase in value of withdrawals in the last fortnight, although the volume has remained willy-nilly the same. However, they said it is not possible to quantify the increase. “I can tell you that even usually withdrawal is higher in April as people head into vacations, farmers withdraw for rabi harvest, among other things… what is perplexing is that why the money is not changing hands,” a currency manager with a PSB said. He added that it is getting tough each day but the real test will be the next long weekend, where banks will go on a 4-day long holiday. “We have been asked to manage as efficiently as possible. For now, we are okay, but let us see how we hold up as days progress,” he said. Data shows that average cash withdrawal does increase in April. In April 2016, it was Rs 3,112 and in April 2017, it was Rs 3,285 – both higher than previous and immediately succeeding months. “But previously, we have not seen such a situation. We think RBI should restrict ATM withdrawals once again till they know what is happening,” said a currency manager of another large PSB.