PUNE: Concerned over the dismal registration figures of realty agents, the Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority has approached the Confederation of Real Estate Brokers’ Association of India to push up the numbers.

 A year after the implementation of the Real Estate Regulatory Act (RERA), only 14,000 real estate brokers are registered with Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority ( ). With more than a lakh of brokers in the state, the number of registration is less than 10%.
 
 MahaRERA secretary   told TOI that the dismal number of registrations was a concern for the authority and they wanted the Confederation of Real Estate Brokers’ Association of India (Crebai) to ensure that all their members registered, either individually or through a company, with MahaRERA.
 
 Prabhu said, “We have directed Crebai to ensure that all their members associated with the ongoing projects register with MahaRERA. Citizens should go for deals with a MahaRERA registered broker only.”
 
 MahaRERA has mandated that any broker who wants to sell apartments in a registered project needs to be registered with the real estate authority.
 
 According to Crebai, MahaRERA has brought a form of regulation for the brokers. But of the 1.5 lakh brokers, nearly 80% are dealing with re-sale properties, who do not fall under the ambit of MahaRERA.
 
 “Some kind of security measure should be given by MahaRERA to ensure that all brokers register. Also, our demands of standardizing the commission should be addressed by MahaRERA,” said  , the president of the Maharashtra branch of Crebai.
 
 “Though we are made liable for any violation, no rules have been made to protect our rights. Many a times, builders and buyers do not pay us our brokerage and there are no provisions to penalize them,” said another broker.
 
 MahaRERA officials stated that they would be following up with Crebai regularly to ensure that the number of registered brokers increased. They would also conduct awareness drives to ensure citizens approach registered brokers only.
 
 
