LUCKNOW: Once rated among the top universities in the country, the nearly century-old Lucknow University no longer figures on the sought-after list of intermediate toppers.

 
 Majority toppers from   and ISC have applied for admissions in foreign universities,   and even institutes in south India while ignoring LU.
 
 
  
  
 
 Among candidates opting for LU are those who scored low marks in Class XII or who dropped a year to prepare for competitive examinations.
 
 LU’s decline has been gradual over the years. The data of past two years show that around 11% students did not take admission in LU even after qualifying the entrance tests. In fact, they had applied in LU as a backup in case they didn’t get through in the campus of their choice.
 
 TOI spoke to some toppers to find out why they preferred other universities over LU.
 
 “Delhi University provides access to modern tools for higher studies like Wi-Fi enabled campus, smart classes, international faculty and student exchange programme. These are missing at LU. Also, there is more competition in DU which helps in grooming students as they compete with best universities like JNU and top colleges,” said UP Board’s city topper Ankush Sonker who has scored 91.8 %. He added that LU fails to maintain on-campus discipline and has various academic challenges like infrastructure and better placement where it loses its battle with DU.
 
 “Even regular courses like BA, BSc and BCom at DU are taught in a professional way and are in sync with the global academic trends. DU offers semester system and honours courses in various streams which ensure regular classes, while LU has adopted the semester system now and both teacher and students attendance percentage is quite low,” said UP Board topper Kirti Singh.
 
 ISC toppers, too, shared similar views. The all India ISC topper Sakshi Pradyumn said the basis of academic preference is made on the basis of the ranking of an institute which is based on overall academic performance. “There is a wide gap between the syllabus taught by other universities and LU. Lucknow University has been teaching the same syllabus for years without any new additions. When Class XII students Google the top 10 institutes or reputed universities in the country or globally, LU does not figure in the list.” The university is yet to get A grade from  .
 
 “Students look for the best option that can land them in the desired job. The academic culture and exposure like oncampus debates, field-based research assignments, adoption of latest technology play a key role in the candidates’ choice for higher education, whereas LU is struggling with the on-campus IT revolution,” said ISC topper Arisha Pathak. Another ISC national topper   said students prefer a university which offers more in every aspect, be it faculty, placements, infrastructure and academic environment.
 
 
