Thiruvananthapuram: When Sasidharan Nair, a 58-year-old farmer of Thalappattumala, near Pullambara came back to his farmland after a day’s break last week what he saw was destroyed crops. All the crops, which he had planted and nurtured with high hopes, were completely destroyed by wild boars. 

 According to Sasidharan Nair, wild boars have been causing huge trouble to the farmers of Thalappattumala – Pullambara regions in the Vamanapuram block for over 18 months. Even after receiving frequent complaints from the farmers, the agriculture department and the forest department haven’t initiated steps to address their woes. 
 
 “Last February, out of four tonnes of spinach cultivated I got only one and half tonnes. The crops are being damaged by boars during night time. Though we have complained to the authorities, they haven’t taken any action yet. We are living in a country that gives much importance to animals than humans,” said Sasidharan Nair. 
 
 Another farmer in the region, Radhakrishnan, had grown Paddy in five hectares and could produce only less than 500kg as rest of the crops were destroyed by wild animals. 
 
 Nellanadu and Thottumpuram wards are other rural areas where the wide boar menace was reported. Plantains, tapioca, colocasia, elephant yam, ginger, and turmeric are the major crops which were destroyed due to animal raids. 
 
 Shanthakumar, a farmer from Nellanadu, said, “The boars mostly attack tuber crops and vegetables including peas, bitter guards, tomatoes etc. Farmers like me used to take farmlands on lease, now we are in crisis,” he said. 
 
  According to the Pullambara panchayat president Azeena Beevi, the panchayat is planning to take on preventive measures to defend the crops from the raids, with the help of Krishi Bhavan. The existing solution with panchayat is BOREP, a pig repellent peptide which can be applied at farms. 
 
 The solution offered by the panchayat is not sufficient to address the issue, feel the farmers. They demand solar fencing for their land. 
 
 Thiruvananthapuram wildlife warden Shaji Kumar said, “Many cases have been reported in the areas bordering forests regarding the killing of wild boars by the locals. It is a criminal offence and under wild life protection act we will file cases against the locals”.
 
 
