THANE: Being part of the Happy Streets this   revelers will have incentives on offer after creating the 3D faces of difference characters which can be one among the exotic decorative pieces in drawing room. 

 The organizers have charted out plans to teach the participants how to create 3D faces for which visitors will get all related materials absolutely free. If this was not enough, the pieces can be carried home as fond memories from the Sunday morning extravaganza. 
 
 “This Sunday we have decided to conduct a unique activity of creating 3D faces at Vijay Suraksha Art Zone. Material will be provided to the revelers to make charming faces of different characters which can be displayed at their homes to relive fond memories at Happy Streets,” said a spokesperson from Vijay Group and Suraksha Realty. 
 
 Self defense workshop by   of Thane Paradise will be yet another lead programme of the day which is designed for people across age groups. Continuing Chinese martial arts demonstration and training for young kids Kung Fu session will also be held for everyone to reckon with. 
 
 “I enjoyed the martial arts exhibition last Sunday and this time I am going to learn something to boost confidence level,” said Aditya Singh, a 13-year-old boy. 
 
 The 1.7km non-vehicular patch between   and   circle will be abuzz with over a dozen activities devised for all sections. 
 
 Happy Streets, is an initiative of Thane traffic police, Thane Municipal Corporation, Vijay Group and Suraksha Realty and supported by TOI where people come up with new ideas and concepts to create wider awareness in the society, on various fronts while being engrossed with activities related to sports, fitness and good health, environment, culture, art and entertainment .
 
 The TOI’s main stage at Khewra Circle will have activities like dance fitness, Bollywood and Zumba, Bokwa, folk fitness, Bollyfit and jazz performance. Joints-n-Motion will continue to conduct activities like marathon training and fitness routines near the main stage with the organisers brining in ladders, cones and hurdle stands to engage kids as well as adults. The sport arena will have skating, football, rent-free cycling, athletics and badminton. Adventure activities will too be part of the show. Patanjali Yoga instructors have arranged special session for people across age groups. Music, street painting, drawing, games and fun activities will be unlimited at the show from 6.30am to 9.30am.
 
 
