Vadodara: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday attached immovable properties worth Rs 1,122 crore owned by Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd (DPIL), that is accused of duping banks to the tune of Rs 2,654 crore. 

 The properties attached are owned by DPIL and its related companies Diamond Power Transformer Ltd, Diamond Projects Ltd, Mayfair Leisures and Northway Spaces.
 
 A fortnight ago, ED officials had raided the DPIL properties in the city and seized several documents after an FIR was filed by the CBI against DPIL and its top management including founder Suresh Bhatnagar, MD Amit Bhatnagar and joint MD, Sumit Bhatnagar. 
 
 The properties attached by ED include the plant, machinery, building and land of DPIL and DPTL (Diamond Power Transformers Ltd) in Vadodara, three windmills in Bhuj, residential bungalows/flats of Bhatnagar family, unsold flats of Northway Spaces, under-construction hotel of Mayfair Leisure and other land parcels held by related companies of DPIL, all located in Vadodara.
 
 “Investigation by ED has revealed that DPIL has indulged into circuitous transactions of huge amounts with various parties including its related parties by issuing fake invoices without any actual sale/purchase of goods. This was done with dual intention of availing CENVAT credit fraudulently as well as projecting increased turnover before the banks in their financial records,” ED’s official release stated.
 
 “DPIL has shown fake/fictitious entries of receivables in their books of accounts of around Rs 1,000 crores from their debtors and on the basis of such books of account DPIL is continuing to get credit from the banks. On investigation it is found that most of these figures are exaggerated. Further, DPIL through its related party was able to gain funds fraudulently to the tune of Rs 261 crore by twisting and manipulating the facility of Letter of Credit (LC) from the banks,” ED officials said.
 
 “DPIL also diverted huge amount of funds received as loan/cash credit to its real estate companies such as Northway Spaces and Mayfair Leisures. Further, the Bhatnagar family through its web of companies and cross holdings were found to be the main decision makers, controllers and thus the beneficial owners of DPIL and all the related companies,” ED officials added.
 
 “Therefore, it appears that there was little genuine business activity done by the Diamond group of companies and most of the business shown on records was from such fictitious transactions and this has resulted into default of Rs 2,654.40 crore to banks,” ED officials said.
 
 
