KOLKATA: Unperturbed by criticism in the US over the   sales drive in India, a dapper   charmed a select audience comprising customers of the upcoming   and real estate honchos at a gala dinner on Tuesday.

 Clad in dark suit with a mauve tie, Trump Jr emerged from the   757 private jet, emblazoned with the family name, at 8.54pm, over an hour behind schedule, and dived into an armoured white SUV that drove right up to the flight stepladder. He then proceeded to the venue under Secret Service cover, with additional security from Special Protection Group, National Security Guard and   commandos.
 
 At the hotel, the crowd broke into an applause when he strode in at 9.38pm. Trump Jr congratulated those who had already booked apartments in the project that carries the super luxury Trump brand. The Rs 600-crore 39-storey property being co-developed by Trump Organisation’s Indian representative Tribeca, Unimark and RDB, is trumpeted as a trophy asset.
 
  
  
 Present in the audience were some of the city’s leading developers who gave Trump Jr a standing ovation. “Donald Trump is first a real estate magnate and then America’s President. His son is, therefore, one of our own,” said a developer.
 
 Critics have accused   Jr of seeking to cash in on his First Family status by offering an exclusive dinner and conversation to investors in Trump properties. Keen to insulate the Trump administration, the US embassy consulate in Kolkata attempted to first distance itself from the “private visit” before acknowledging that it was supporting Donald Trump Jr’s secret service team.
 
 At the dinner, Trump Jr betrayed the frustrations of being under constant scrutiny. “Given some of the visceral attacks, it is hard not to fight back on platforms, like the social media,” he said in reply to a question on how it felt to be the son of the US President. He pointed to the downside of having to take a hiatus from new deals due to his father’s new position. “It has taken a decade to create relationships in India. The irony is that having taken so long to get this far, we can now only complete existing projects and not venture into new ones,” he said.
 
 India is Trump Corporation’s biggest market outside the US with four Trump towers in Kolkata, Pune, Mumbai and Gurgaon. A fifth one — a commercial office— is expected to be launched soon. Though the New York-based company has not invested directly in the projects, it earns royalty from them.
 
 Another developer at the high profile wine-and-dine do said Trump Jr’s visit had put Kolkata firmly on the global realty map: “There are Trump Towers in New York, Las Vegas, Chicago, Toronto, Istanbul and o ther major cities. Now, the world will know about a Trump Tower in Kolkata.”
 
 On Wednesday morning, Trump Jr will visit the project site and meet channel partners — realtors and other members of the fraternity — before leaving for Mumbai and Pune.
 
