TUTICORIN: Four days after normal life was thrown out of gear in   following the anti-Sterlite violence in which 13 persons were killed in police firing, the city showed signs of limping back to normal on Friday. However, bad tidings came around 4 pm when miscreants set fire to a bus on a bridge near Srivaikundam. Three passengers suffered injuries in the incident and were taken to hospital. Bus services from the city were affected following the incident.

 The bus which originated from Udankudi was on its way to Tirunelveli when it was stopped by three unidentified people on two bikes at Karungulam bridge. They attacked a lone policeman posted as security and chased him away. The miscreants then made all the 49 passengers alight from the bus, poured the petrol they brought with them on the back seat and set it on fire before making off. 
 
 The injured persons were identified as Sudalaikannu, 70, from Meignanapuram and his wife Valliammal and  , 25, from Karaikudi. They were taken to the Karungulam primary health centre from where they were referred to other hospitals. Police sources said that only the burn injury of Valliammal was of serious nature and that the bus was completely gutted in 30 minutes. Fire and rescue personnel who swung into action quelled the fire. On being alerted, a police team led by district superintendent of police Murali Rambha rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. Based on the complaint from the driver of the bus identified as Ramesh, a case was registered and a detailed inquiry was under way. Following the incident the district police beefed up security for buses as well as at all sensitive places. 
 
 Meanwhile, more vehicles were seen on the roads on Friday with one of the most important signals in the city, the VVD signal, being switched on indicating a respite to the tensed situation which had been prevailing. However, only around five per cent of the shops opened their shutters. Autorickshaws were seen plying at many places, which was also a sign of normalcy returning as people were seen hailing them.   operated six bus services to Tirunelveli and five to Madurai — much lesser than the normal traffic to these two cities from Tuticorin. However, the euphoria was shortlived and the services halted following the burning incident. The most affected places like Therespuram and Anna Nagar continued to be tense and saw very little traffic. 
 
 Though big shops were closed, many eateries sprung up near the vicinity of the government hospital in Tuticorin. As the district administration had announced that the amma canteen near the hospital would be opened 24x7, many people were seen flocking there. They expressed relief at the food that was being provided free of cost for three days. 
 
 Meanwhile, the burnt and damaged vehicles were moved out of the collectorate premises using earth movers. People coming to the collectorate were frisked at three places including the main entrance and vehicle park, before entering the collector’s office. District collector Sandeep Nanduri also went on his rounds around the city. CPI national secretary K Narayana and senior leader   visited the patients at the government hospital.
 
 Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri has said that the public could call the helpline numbers 94864-54714, 0461-2340101 or 1077 if they had any problem in procuring essential commodities or if they needed any other assistance. As much as 13,000 litres of milk had been kept ready for distribution by Aavin and two mobile booths had become operational. If people had problem in getting milk they could call the number 94426-22232 to get it delivered at their doorstep, he said.
 
 
