CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh bench of   (AFT) has held that the death of a soldier while returning to his unit after watching a movie, shall be attributable to the military service and his family would be entitled to a special pension. 

 The tribunal passed these orders while allowing a petition by Tripta Devi, mother of corporal Vishal Raj of the   (IAF). While posted in West Bengal in October 2009, Vishal, who is from   in Punjab, died in a road accident while returning to his squadron from a nearby city.
 
 The ministry of defence, however, refused to pay the petitioners the special pension meant for soldiers who die on duty and only granted Devi ordinary family pension on the ground that the death of her son was not attributable to the service. Devi approached the tribunal claiming that her son was on active military service and was not on leave at the time of accident. It was argued that before going for the movie, he had made the necessary entries in the records of his unit but died in the accident.
 
 The ministry, on the other hand, argued that he was not performing any military duty at that time as a result of which, the family was not entitled to the special pension. A division bench of the tribunal, comprising judicial member, Justice Mohammad Tahir and administrative member Lt Gen Munish Sibal, however, held that the corporal sustained injuries while he was on duty, which could be attributed to military service.
 
 “Mother of deceased, Tripta Devi, is entitled to special family pension. The arrears of special family pension are restricted to three years preceding the date of filing of the petition – March 1, 2016 because the petitioner has approached the tribunal after a lapse of seven years of her son’s death,” ordered the bench in its judgment released on Monday. The tribunal has also directed the ministry to calculate the family pension and release the amount within three months.
 
 Raj had joined the air force on December 16, 2002, and had met with the accident while coming back to 18 Squadron at Kalaikunda in West Bengal in October 2009. Another airman, Vishal Singh, was accompanying him. While returning from Kharagpur, they were hit by a truck on a railway bridge killing Raj on spot while Vishal sustained minor injuries.
 
 Later, a court of inquiry was conducted by the IAF into the accident, which held that Raj died after being run over by the truck.
 
 
