DUBAI:   heavyweight   and doubles star   welcomed the International Tennis Federation’s proposal to crunch the all-year annual feature into a week-long tournament at the end of the season, saying it was much needed.

 
 The 44-year-old, in the semifinals of the Dubai Duty Free tennis championships, playing alongside American Jamie Cerretani, called it ‘a smart move’.
 
 “From an athlete’s perspective, Davis Cup was getting very long,” Paes, a veteran of 54 ties, said. “Zonals or the World Group, you’re playing in February, straight after a Grand Slam. Top players, who have gone deep into the Australian Open, which is obviously very hot, are playing best of five-sets again (now it is best-of-three), three times in a weekend. Straight after Miami (Masters) in April, again you play (Davis Cup), after Wimbledon you play in July, then in September (after US Open). The two teams in the final, play again in November.”
 
 Paes added, “Also depending on who you’re playing, you can be flying from Australia to South America, Miami to Mumbai.”
 
 The ITF is attempting to shrink the event into a seven-day feature, where the top 18 teams start in November (the week of the Davis Cup final), rather than facing off in five weekends across the year. The proposal for the World Cup of Tennis, endorsed by the ITF board, will be submitted at the AGM in Florida in August, where it will require a two-third majority to come into play, possibly in 2019.
 
 Bopanna, the top-ranked Indian in world doubles at No.20, said the new format would provide a reprieve for the players. “It gives you time to prepare for your other tournaments. Look at us Indians now, we’ll be flying from Miami to China to play Davis Cup, then from China we go back to Europe. That’s a lot.”
 
 Paes, who has a total Davis Cup win-loss record of 90-34, and is tied with Italy’s Nicola Pietrangeli (42-12) for most doubles wins, said there’s time in the calendar to finish the season with a team event.
 
 “If you look at the exhibition events happening in November and December it shows that there’s time in the calendar,” Paes, who will turn 45 in June, said. “I am sure there are some challenges, as they use the format they’ll know. From a player’s point of view, it’s good. Firstly, to make it best- of-three-sets. Someone like me, for 15-18 years I was playing all three days, singles, doubles, singles. Look at Aisam (Ul-Haq Qureshi), he’s doing it. In the World Group Radek Stepanek is still recovering from the wear and tear of the body. It is very tough in the Asian zone itself, you can you imagine how tough it is in the World Group.”
 
 Paes, who thrived in the team environment, especially in home conditions, said there had to be give and take in a journey of change. “I have been blessed to have an unbelievable Davis Cup record, playing home and away. There is a charm to playing at home and away, the Dutch coming to Jaipur, we going to Frejus…That was amazing, but how can you fit that in a 10-day opening? You cannot please everybody.”
 
 Bopanna agreed that scheduling the tournament in the traditional week of the Davis Cup final, in the second half of November, was stretching the season, but said players got back the four weekends (which could stretch to a week) in the course of the year.
 
 “You have an opportunity to rest the body,” he said, adding the home-and-away format would be missed. “But then it will be equal for everyone, it will be like every tournament we play, majority of them are away anyway.”
 
 Paes said he understood where the drive for change was coming from. “At the end of the day, the thought process was about making sure all players play. If you have Davis Cup, best-of-five, five times a year, players won’t play. They’ll get fed up, it’s too much.”
 
