Kolkata:  , the FMCG-to-hotel-to-tobacco conglomerate, is planning to make inroads into Rs 7,000crore   drink market with its B Natural brand in the next few months. Coke’s Maaza is the leader in the mango   market in India followed by Parle Agro’s Frooti and Slice from Pepsico. 

 A little over two years ago, ITC had created B Natural brand primarily for fruit juices other than mango and the company would now extend it for mango drink. 
 
 The mango drink market, which is almost three times of the total fruit   market in India, is growing at 14%-15% CAGR in the last couple of years. The Rs 2,500crore fruit drinks market, too, is growing at little over 15% CAGR. It is regarded as a separate category in India. 
 
 Hemant Malik, the divisional chief executive of foods division of ITC, told TOI that it is likely to enter mango drink market in the next four-five months. “We want to innovate in mango drinks space,” he said.
 
 A company source said that B Natural as a brand has already crossed Rs 100crore mark and it is eyeing Rs 200 crore mark by the end of this fiscal. 
 
 Recently, Coca-Cola, too, has introduced new variants of Maaza in order to keep its dominant position in the mango juice market in the form of MaazaGold and Refresh. As per the industry source, Maaza has almost 40% market share nationally in the mango drink market followed by 25%-30% of Frooti.
 
 “Maaza is our mango specialist and is India’s most-loved beverage brand with the highest consumer love scores. Maaza maintained its absolute leadership in the segment. We continue to invest in building the best consumer experience that will maintain and increase love for Maaza brand and its shelf offtake,” a Coca-Cola spokesperson said. 
 
 Malik pointed out that besides entering a new territory in the form of mango drink, ITC is also eyeing a double-digit marketshare in the fruit juice segment. In the fruit juice category, according to him, ITC would focus on indigenous pulp-based drink rather than imported fruit concentrate. 
 
 According to him, B Natural Juices will shift its entire fruit beverage portfolio to ‘Not from Concentrate’ range. “With this paradigm shift, the brand endeavours to offer its consumers juices that are made from fruit pulp and not from fruit concentrate. This shift towards a ‘Not From Concentrate’ range is in line with ITC Foods’ vision and commitment towards crafting differentiated offerings in this category,” Malik added.
 
 The major players in fruit juice market are: Dabur (Real) and Pepsi. Coke is a relatively new entrant. Dabur has 50% marketshare in the segment, while Pepsico has around 25%. The fruit juice market is largely concentrate-based with only 10% formed by pulp-based juices. 
 
 
