NEW DELHI: With over 3,000 mobile towers in areas under its jurisdiction, the   is planning to bolster its revenues by charging property tax on them. The civic body is likely to move a resolution in this regard. 

 According to a rough estimate, this could mean an additional Rs 15 crore in its kitty annually. In the previous fiscal, SDMC had collected around Rs 650 crore in property tax. 
 
 Last year, the Supreme Court had ruled that property tax could be levied on mobile towers and telecom companies would have to pay the charges to the civic body concerned as these towers came in the ambit of land and building. 
 
 A separate battle between SDMC and telecom companies regarding one-time installation charges for mobile towers is raging in the Delhi high court. “HC had directed telecom companies and SDMC to come to an agreement over the charges. The matter will be heard at the next hearing. The law and building department has been directed to examine legal terms and structural safety of buildings, along with the possibility of declaring mobile towers as building units, to levy property tax,” a senior SDMC official said.
 
 The one-time installation charge was hiked from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 5 lakh by the erstwhile municipal corporation in 2010, which prompted the telecom companies to move court. The case has been pending since then and thousands of illegal towers have come up across the city. Several proposals have been brought to regulate the one-time installation charges, but the three corporations have failed to curb mushrooming of mobile towers.
 
 The official quoted above said: “As per the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, there is a provision to levy property tax on mobile towers. It will not only increase revenue but also help regulate towers being run illegally.”
 
 There are 3,670 mobile towers under the jurisdiction of south corporation, of which 2,537 are either illegal or erected without prior approval. Under the east civic body, there are 2,383 mobile towers, of which 900 stand illegally. Also, there are 2,539 mobile towers under  , of which 1,284 are illegal.
 
 “Right now, the telecom companies directly consult a builder and install a mobile tower. But it can lead to accidents if the building is not safe. The building department will examine the safety needs while erecting a  ,” said a senior official. 
 
 
