NEW DELHI: Experienced shooter   will head to the 2018 Commonwealth Games at Golf Coast, from April 4-15, as a member of the   contingent and will be keen to better his silver medal-finish at the Glasgow Games from four years ago. Sanjeev, who besides securing a silver medal in 2014 also won a bronze medal in the 2006 edition, in his column for TOI on Thursday, mentioned how the amount of time and effort invested in training helped him prepare for the quadrennial Games.

 
 
 
 "The 2018   Commonwealth Games will be my third games. From the bronze of 2006, I progressed to silver in 50m Rifle 3rd Position in the 2014 CWG losing to Daniel Rivers in the final. For this edition I am very well prepared with six to seven hours of training session at the National Camp," Sanjeev wrote.
 
 
 
 The 37-year-old Arjuna awardee will be competing in the 50m rifle 3 position category and enters CWG with a point to prove. Having failed to make it to the 12-member shooting team selected by the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) for the Rio Olympics 2016, Sanjeev shrugged off his disappointment by first winning a silver medal in 50m rifle the same year and then clinched another silver at the 2017 the Commonwealth Shooting Championships.
 
 "In addition to the training, we shooters have been fortunate to compete at international competitions for the last six months. My total focus had been on the trials for the Commonwealth Games and to do well in at the international competitions. I was happy with my fourth position finish at the Mexico World Cup. I was up against the World's best shooters from America, Russia, Europe and Asia," Sanjeev mentioned.
 
 "Akhil won the gold in this event. Many other Indian shooters have been excelling at the World stage including outstanding juniors like Manu Bhaker who won two Gold medals at the World Senior and Junior Championship. Our Russian coach Oleg has also been of great help in our preparations."
 
 Besides Sanjeev, India has 26 more participants in the individual categories. The likes of Jitu Rai, Chain Singh, Ankur Mittal, Anish Bhanwala and others are coming into the event with good performances in the ISSF World Cups and expectations would be immense from them.
 
 "Indian Shooters have always excelled at the Commonwealth level. I am convinced with the recent results India will continue to win many medals in the shooting events at Gold Coast in April," Sanjeev concluded.
 
