CHENNAI:   (CFC) are failing to learn from their mistakes. John Gregory’s boys have lost crucial points due to defensive errors in concentration in the final minutes of their last two home matches. While these errors might not harm them now as they still sit pretty at the second spot in the ISL, it might haunt them in the longer run.

 Much like last season, where CFC lost a few close matches after conceding late goals and failed to make the playoffs, things can get a lot tighter this time if they continue committing same mistakes. It is a trend which CFC goalkeeper  , who was retained by the franchise along with Jeje Lalpekhlua, is well aware of.
 
 Although the 32-year-old custodian is not ready to press the panic button yet, he feels CFC should make amends soon. “Generally, a team concedes goal at the latter stages because of fitness issues or lack of concentration. If the players become tired, they tend to lose focus and the determination to fight till the end. So we are putting extra effort in our training sessions to remain fit. If our fitness levels don’t drop, then we can concentrate on the game for the entire 90 minutes. Hopefully, we will be able to rectify our mistakes and not lose focus and shape during the crucial stages,” Karanjit told TOI in a recent chat.
 
 Karanjit also warned about the complacency factor. “On a lot of occasions, players tend to take it easy and become complacent after taking the lead. They switch off in the last few minutes. So this year, we are trying to address these issues from the beginning. We have been talking about it in the dressing room and team meetings. The target now is to qualify for playoffs. Then we will take one step at a time,” the ’keeper said.
 
 While the defence has been shaky at times, Karanjit has been a consistent performer for CFC. He is fourth on the list of goalkeepers with most saves (22) and feels the onus is also on the ’keepers to help the defenders remain focused.
 
 “If the ’keeper continuously encourages and communicates with the defenders on the field, they don’t tend to lose concentration as they know their job is not done yet. Since I know Mailson Alves for the last two years, it didn’t take much time to develop an understanding. Both   and   have played at the top level in Spain and England so they knew how important it was to have an understanding with the goalkeeper and we actually gelled well. I have been communicating with the on-field players more than the last year. It is also helping me remain attached to the proceedings,” said Karanjit.
 
 
