COIMBATORE: On the eve of the Edappadi K Palaniswami-led government completing a year, the   launched a strident attack on the   regime alleging that the state has been turned into a haven for radical elements.

 “Tamil Nadu is definitely not a haven of peace. It is only a training ground for various fundamentalist organizations,’’ said Union minister of state  . Addressing a public meeting at R S   organized by the BJP on Wednesday to pay tributes to those killed in the 1998 serial bomb blasts in Coimbatore,   launched an uncharacteristically scathing attack on the AIADMK government. Another senior BJP leader and Coir Board chairman C P Radhakrishnan was also vehement in his criticism on the state government.
 
 The comments have come as surprise to even BJP cadres, since the saffron party was considered to have been patronizing Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam-led government.
 
 “There are signs of heightened activities by radical elements in the state. Various fundamentalist outfits have joined hands,’’ he cautioned. “Radicals are working on a 20-year agenda,’’ he alleged.
 
 Pon Radhakrishnan even faulted the jallikattu protests that were held last year. “The jallikattu protest was also orchestrated by radical elements. They used common men and women as shields,’’ he alleged. “The protest was a challenge to the central government,’’ he said. Radhakrishnan had made a similar comment in January last year too when the protests reached a peak. But eventually he took up the issue with the central government to permit jallikattu.
 
 Pon Radhakrishnan also demanded that prisoners should not be released to commemorate the birth anniversary of late chief minister M G Ramachandran. “The Tamil Nadu government should not release any fundamentalist elements out of the prison citing the birth anniversary of any leaders,” he said.
 
 Later, he told reporters that it was achievement of sorts for EPS to have completed a year in government in spite of the odds.
 
 BJP leader C P Radhakrishnan said that if the state government releases bomb blast convicts to mark MGR birth anniversary, it would signal the end of EPS–OPS dispensation.
 
 “They would certainly be removed from the political landscape of the state,” he said.
 
 The comments indicate a marked departure from the stand of BJP towards AIADMK. The AIADMK too over the past few days have been mildly critical of the Modi government in the Centre. 
 
 
