NEW DELHI: Today's   2018 match-up between table-toppers   and fourth-placed   at   has West Indian legend Sir   musing about how   plans to put a stop to CSK's batting might.

 
 
 
 
 When these two teams met in the first week of the tournament, CSK chased down KKR's 202/6 with five wickets and one delivery remaining in what proved a thriller. Since that match, CSK have come within four runs of matching Kings XI Punjab's 197, piled up 204/5 against Rajasthan Royals, made 182/3 to beat Sunrisers Hyderabad by four runs, chased 206 with five wickets and two balls left versus Royal Challengers Bangalore, lost to Mumbai Indians by eight wickets and smashed 211/4 to beat Delhi Daredevils by 13 runs. 
 
 
 
 
 Leading the way have been Ambati Rayudu (370 runs) and   (286 runs), and no total has appeared safe when the pair has batted together. Ahead of today's match, Richards was eager to see how KKR captain Karthik would counter Dhoni and Rayudu. 
 
 "There is no doubt that MS Dhoni has been unstoppable this season, but Dinesh Karthik has brought something new to the table by putting abundant faith in his young bowlers," wrote Richards in his Times of India column. 
 
 "Showing confidence and mentoring youngsters seems to be the No 1 agenda in Karthik's scheme of things. KKR's   went for a lot of runs against Punjab but Karthik played Mavi in the next match and the bowler justified the faith shown on him. Another factor that works for Kolkata is Sunil Narine's role as an opener. It reminds me of [Sanath] Jayasuriya during his hey days. Both teams have a well-rounded squad that knows when to step up, but it will be interesting to see what the boys do on their given day."
 
 CSK sit atop the IPL 2018 points table and can seal passage to the playoffs with two more wins, and Richards believed their success owed to a good balanced squad. 
 
 "Among the teams that hope to occupy the top four slots, Chennai is the stand out side. A team that was frowned upon for being full of retired players, it has stepped up and shown the world what experience can do for them. Each player is aware of his role and executes it to perfection," he wrote. "Ambati Rayudu is their in-form player. Though he has been in the IPL for a while - eight years with the Mumbai Indians - the current season seems have brought out his best. He knows exactly the kind of innings the team needs and he has delivered it too, amassing 370 runs in eight innings."
 
 CSK and SRH have 12 points, followed by KXIP with 10 and KKR with 8. RCB, Rajasthan, Mumbai and Daredevils are the teams struggling to stay afloat. 
 
 "I would say the excitement in this IPL is just about to get higher with the final stage of the league yet to come. T20 is unpredictable and that's what makes the game so exciting; with brilliant fielding, spectacular catches, record-breaking innings, bowling perfect line and length, this season has been one for the books.
 
 With three former champions in the bottom five of the league standings, it's time we knew who will make it to the playoffs," wrote Richards.
 
