NAGPUR: Three days after a person committed suicide at Mantralaya in Mumbai, five dismissed employees of Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) tried to immolate themselves in front of CM Devendra Fadnavis’ official residence Ramgiri in Civil Lines on Sunday morning. Five are among 17 who are demanding their reinstatement in the civic body for the last 16 years.

 NMC general body had decided to recruit 17 persons (one Vinod Sonone passed away in 2015) when Fadnavis was mayor in 1997. In a writ petition filed by one of 16, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, on July 8, 2015, had directed the state’s urban development department (UDD) to decide on their case within three months. Despite 28 months having passed, UDD under the CM is yet to decide on their case according to petitioner Subhash Ghate, who is also a BJP leader.
 
 One of the 16 had called mediapersons on Saturday evening informing about their plan to immolate themselves in front of CM’s residence at   in Dharampeth on Sunday.
 
 Five of them— Vinayak Pendke, Mohammed Yusuf Mohammed Yakub, Suresh Barde, Vijay Hatwar and Ashok Devghade— went to Trikoni Park at around 10am. They found huge police bandobast and diverted themselves to Ramgiri. Pendke’s mother— Asha— remained at Trikoni Park itself.
 
 At around 10.30am, the five reached Ramgiri and two of them— Pendke and Yakud— poured kerosene on themselves. Police arrested the two along with Barde and Devghade. Hatwar escaped but was arrested near MLA Hostel. Later, Asha was detained at Trikoni Park. First four were taken to Sadar police while Hatwar and Asha to Sitabuldi police station. Sadar police registered an offence against all five.
 
 Ghate was also detained by police at Ramgiri but later released. “It is unfortunate that the government is not taking decision despite HC orders. I am a BJP worker so pursuing the matter with the government. I went to Ramgiri when I learnt about my colleagues plan and wanted to make them understand. I will file contempt petition if the government continues to delay the decision,” he said.
 
 These 17 are among 106 employees who were dismissed in 2002. NMC general body recommended reinstatement of all of them in 2011. The government approved reinstatement of 89 in 2012 but case of these 17 were left as cases about them were pending in various courts.
 
 Ghate said all of them withdrew the cases and asked the government for reinstatement on lines of 89 others but nothing happened. Pendke said they were left with no option other than take such steps. “I was recruited in MSRTC as a driver. I left that job and joined NMC in 1997. We were dismissed in 2002. Since then, we are making rounds of courts, NMC and Mantralaya. We are left with no money. I have been driving auto and earning Rs 5,000 per month,” he said.
 
 Barde said his son was removed from junior college for not paying fees. “We have lost everything. My autorickshaw was taken away over loan default. At this age, we have nothing to do for making a living,” he said.
 
 
