Pune: The Pune police suspended two constables — Ashok Masal and Suresh Bansode — on Monday night for accepting Rs 2.40 lakh to facilitate the escape of three alleged kidnappers. The crime branch recovered the money from the locker, which belonged to one of the suspended policemen, at the Katraj police post. The constables have not been arrested.

 Pravin Mundhe, the deputy commissioner of police (Zone II), suspended Masal and Bansode after investigations revealed that they had facilitated the escape of the three men who had kidnapped Rahul Katkamwar, the general manager of a Manjari-based construction firm, and his driver Vijay Navghane for a ransom of Rs 14.30 lakh.
 
 Mundhe said, “I took the call to place the two policemen under suspension after the investigations confirmed that they had accepted money from the kidnappers.”
 
 The constables, posted at the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, had intercepted a sports utility vehicle (SUV) at the Katraj Chowk for checking on the night of May 22. However, they let the five people in the car — Katkamwar, Navghane and their three kidnappers — pass after accepting Rs 2.40 lakh.
 
 The incident came to light on may 25 when Katkamwar registered a complaint with the Wanowrie police 25 saying that he and his driver were on their way to home on May 22 when four men on motorbikes intercepted their vehicle at Sopan Baugh and kidnapped them.
 
 While three of the suspects drove them to various parts of the city, the fourth suspect followed them on his motorcycle. The kidnappers had released Katkamwar at Bavdhan after accepting a ransom of Rs 14.30 lakh on May 24.
 
 Datta Chavan, the crime branch’s senior inspector (Unit V), said, “During investigations, we identified the policemen and questioned them in the presence of their superiors. They soon confessed to receiving Rs 2.40 lakh from the kidnappers. We recovered the money from the locker of one of the policemen in the presence of witnesses. We have also launched a hunt to arrest the kidnappers.”
 
 
