KOLKATA: Life started on a usual note at   on Friday but the locals started to sense tension simmering as hordes of unidentified men started to camp in and around local tea shops. Things slowly started to go out of hands past 8am, when supporters of   and   got embroiled in a pitched battle, leaving local residents and commuters at their mercy.

 Ashok Mishra, a security guard with a small transport company, noticed an “unusual surge” in the number of men drinking tea at his favourite tea shop just opposite Binani Bhavan — the centre of all trouble on Friday — in Jorabagan when he reported for work on Friday. “I knew a number of Gangasagar pilgrims were putting up there. I even saw a couple of cops. But the huge number of party flags made me suspicious,” recalled Mishra. In the next 45 minutes, he would be hit on his shoulder with a bamboo even as he locked the office gate and rushed upstairs to save his life.
  
 Residents said they were worried about the safety of children. “Most of the men had left for work. The party sympathizers were smashing anything they could lay their hands on. There was blood everywhere. Who is to be blamed for such violence?” asked a woman whose red Chevrolet Beat car was vandalized on Friday. 
 
  
  
 Though the supporters mainly trageted those from the opposite camp, locals and passersby were not spared either. The BJP supporters allegedly entered a trading-cum-residential building located opposite the ceremony house and vandalized furniture. The mayhem continued till a huge police force reached the spot.
 
 But the trouble was far from over. The BJP supporters – who were stopped from going towards Vivekananda Road by cops as they felt they might try and enter Vivekananda’s residence — then took their bikes through CR Avenue. As they raced towards BJP headquarters, they damaged a couple of more cars. A number of Trinamool supporters waiting near MG Road and Mahajati Sadan tried to challenge the rallyists.
 
 The TMC supporters claimed the BJP men attacked them first, a charge denied by the latter. As the two groups clashed on CR Avenue, the cops finally resorted to lathicharge to control the situation. Joint CP (crime) Praveen Tripathi led a huge force — drawn from  , north, central and south divisions — to turn CR Avenue into a sea of white. Police pickets were put up at Joarabagan, Girish Park and Md Ali Park. Nine people were detained from the spot. Normalcy on the road returned around 12.30pm, almost four hours after the trouble broke out. With diversions on Vivekananda Road on the occasion of Vivekananda’s birth centenary and the movement of Gangasagar buses, traffic remained gridlocked till early evening.
  
 
