CHENNAI: It was close to a perfectly planned crime. But the final haul of a gang that broke into an Indian   branch in   — the first major burglary in Chennai after a January 2017 heist at a   branch in   — is still anybody’s guess.

 Investigators are yet to make an estimate of the loot. But they said evidence indicated that the burglars, who entered the bank with help from Shabi Lal, 38, a guard from Nepal who lived in a back room on the 1st floor of the building that housed the bank, escaped with just 10 sovereigns (80g) of gold worth around Rs 2.3 lakh and a bag of silver jewellery.
 
 
  
 
 Clues that the burglars left behind also suggested that the execution of the crime did not quite match the diligence of its planning: At the crime scene, police officers and forensics experts found that the thieves had left jewellery strewn on the floor.
 
 
  
 
 “The burglars opened a few lockers with a gas cutter that they also used to get past a window grille and gain access to the vault of the branch,” an investigating said. “But, after partially opening one cash locker, they simply left the money behind.”
 
 
  
 
 A few hours after staff arriving at work on Monday morning discovered and reported the weekend heist, IOB released a statement in which it maintained that Rs 32 lakh and gold ornaments were intact in the bank’s vault. The gang, it said, opened only two lockers (numbers 259 and 654), of customers Maria Anbalagan, of Chennai, and Suchitra, of  .
 
 
  
 
 That did little to quell the apprehensions of customers, however, and by noon a swell of people surrounded the branch, desperately seeking reassurance that the thieves had not stolen their savings.
 
 Police commissioner A K   and senior officers arrived at the spot even as several policemen restrained worried customers outside, some of whom were in tears, others angry, and some at the point of breaking down.
 
 The KK Nagar police, probing the case on a complaint by   branch manager Saroja, are speaking to one customer, Maria Anbalagan, as part of the probe, a senior police officer said. “We have not yet contacted Suchitra,” he said.
 
 Forensics experts have recovered several sets of fingerprints,” the officer said. “We will compare them with those of employees and customers and see if any so not match. We will run those through our database.”
 
 “The guard, Shabi Lal, has been absconding since Sunday,” he said. “He was an employee at the bank for five years.”
 
 
