NEW DELHI: With bugle for the "Battle for Karnataka" sounded on Tuesday,   hopes for a triumphant ride on PM  's charisma, coupled with the Centre's policy initiatives and perceived anti-incumbency against the Siddaramaiah-led   government in the state, in what promises to be perhaps the most keenly fought electoral contest in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. 

 Unlike in 2013 when the saffron party had splintered with party's chief ministerial candidate B S   floating his own outfit, all factions are now united with BJP chief   leading the charge from the front, picking up local issues like farm distress besides allegations of corruption against the Siddaramaiah government.
 
  Badavara Shramikara Raithara (BSR) Congress, led by B Sriramulu, was the other outfit which ate into BJP vote-bank earlier. However, BSR merged with BJP prior to the 2014 Lok Sabha polls in which the saffron party put up a good show. 
 
 Senior party leaders feel a victory in the state will be a major boost to their "Congress-mukt Bharat" agenda as Karnataka is among the only two major states (the other being Punjab) where the opposition party is in power. 
 
 During his two-day trip to the state, Shah set out the party poll agenda as he harped on highly local issues to attack the Congress government in the state. "Message is loud and clear...people of Karnataka want change, people want development, people want BJP," Shah told a press conference in Bangalore.
 
  He referred to the alleged suicide by farmers in the state while launching state-wide door-to-door campaign "Mushti Dhanya Sangrah Abhiyana" to collect a handful of grains from farmers and distribute them among the distressed. "About 3,781 farmers have committed suicide in Siddaramaiah's regime. With this Abhiyan, BJP has taken a pledge to provide justice to farmers by uprooting the anti-farmer Siddaramaiah govt and to bring in pro-farmer government led Yeddyurappaji," Shah said. 
 
  BJP has also worked extensively on the caste chemistry, seeking to consolidate the Lingayat community by projecting Yeddyurappa, perceived to be their tallest leader, as the CM candidate. Besides, the party has tried to make inroads among the Vokkaligas. A large number of them are Nath-panth followers for whom the party plans to rope in UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Many party leaders feel Deve Gowda-led Janata Dal (S) could be a spolier for the Congress. 
 
  Party insiders say Shah has prepared a blueprint to mobilise the campaign as a point-wise ready reckonor has been handed over to the state leaders. 
 
 
