NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Thursday barred the Rohini-based ashram Adhyatmik Vishwa Vidyalaya, where women were allegedly kept in confinement, from using the term , vishwa vidyalaya, in its name.

 It also directed   to take all possible steps to trace the elusive, self-styled godman,  , against whom a look-out circular (LOC) has also been issued.
 
 A division bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar ordered that the ashram cannot use ‘vishwa vidyalaya’ or university in any manner as it violates the University Grants Commission Act.
 
 “Writ petition makes serious allegations against Dixit, who is stated to be heading the institution and criminality has been pointed in the functioning of Adhyatmik Vishwa Vidyalaya. There is extreme urgency to restrain the usage of vishwa vidyalaya. The ashram is directed to forthwith drop it from its name,” the bench noted.
 
 The UGC Act states that ‘university’ refers to an institute established or incorporated by or under central, provincial or state acts. The court found the use the word by the ashram violating the law.
 
 Meanwhile, the bench acknowledged the efforts of CBI to trace Dixit and asked the probe agency to take all possible measures to secure his appearance before the court. It further directed Delhi Police to facilitate a meeting of the family members of the survivors and listed the matter for March 15.
 
 On its part, the ashram maintained that not a single girl was kept in confinement and as per the institute’s rules, only parents were allowed to meet them and not relatives.
 
 CBI had earlier told HC that a LOC has been issued against Dixit. HC was hearing a PIL in which various allegations have been made by an NGO, which claimed that the survivors were illegally confined at the “spiritual university” in Rohini. 
 
 Delhi Commission for Women chief Swati Jaihind was also a part of the panel which in its report told HC that the survivors were kept in an “unhygienic and animal-like conditions with no privacy even for bathing”.
 
 
