NAGPUR: Emotional   (EI) plays an important role to become successful in life for which sustained efforts should be made since childhood, said Shankar Bhusari, a renowned psychologist and counsellor, on Wednesday.

 Speaking on ‘Emotional intelligence and its applicability industry’, organized by the HRD Forum of Vidarbha Industries Association at   Hall, Bhusari said, “Intelligence without emotions is flawed in the sense that a successful person cannot progress by depending on a single element. S/he has to have   quotient to understand what is happening around and act accordingly to the changing situations.”
 
 Any successful person, may it be an entrepreneur, politician or a bureaucrat, has high IQ, but all they need to be emotionally intelligent too, he said.
 
 Recalling the contribution of Goleman and Boyatzis, whose path-breaking studies on emotional intelligence changed the context of the definition of a successful person to a great extent, Bhusari said, “Ability to understand the needs of the other person is of paramount importance”.
 
 He cited the example of kids and said they can be intelligent up to a particular limit beyond which the emotional intelligence comes into picture. Those who can develop it become successful entrepreneurs, politicians, bureaucrats or anyone who show their excellence in their chosen field.
 
 Explaining the process of thinking, Bhusari said “At the age of six months, the brain is developed up to 50%. This is called subconscious thinking. Multiple thinking is gained in the age group of 10 to 14 years. The thinking process starts taking shape only after this period.”
 
 Many aspects of emotional intelligence are still not known to the world and experts will have to dig deep to know where from it comes, he said.
 
 He established a bond with parents of youths by sharing his personal experiences and said minutely observing what is happening around can teach a lot. He spoke about a model on interpersonal and intrapersonal intelligence which was mainly made by his personal experiences that he learned during his research. 
 
 Bhusari said, “Transformation of energy from a state of mind to another is emotional intelligence.” He also discussed the importance of behaviour to become successful, saying that it is but natural that every action has a chain reaction.
 
