AGARTALA: In the first direct contest between the Left Front and BJP anywhere in the country, voter turnout of 79% was registered in the   assembly elections till 9pm on Sunday. Although around 92% voter turnout was recorded in the 2013 assembly polls, the percentage is likely to go up this time as well, since polling was on in at least 100 booths till reports last came in.

 
 "Polling was largely peaceful and the poll percentage may go up significantly," said state electoral officer Sriram Taranikanta, while referring to long queues outside polling booths till late in the night.
 
  
  
 
 In the 2013 elections, the Left Front tally was 50 (CPM 49 and CPI 1), while Congress won 10 seats. Polling was brisk as soon as it began at 7am. In many areas, voting started late due to problems in calibrating EVMs with VVPAT. Voters turned out in huge numbers in all 59 seats that went to the polls. Election to the remaining seat, Charilam, has been deferred to March 12 because of the death of the CPM candidate. "To ensure peaceful election, we had deployed 50,000 paramilitary and other security personnel," the CEO said, adding, "Helicopters were used to keep surveillance on polling stations in hilly areas."
 
 In a tweet, PM Modi asked people to come out and vote. He also called up state BJP president Biplab Kumar Deb to wish him. Altogether 292 candidates, including 23 women, were in the fray. Polling in the 20 Scheduled Tribe seats was also peaceful. Among the key contestants were CM   (Dhanpur), Biplab Deb (Banamalipur) and state Congress chief Birajit Sinha (Kailashahar). Sarkar, who is seeking a fifth consecutive term in office, came to vote at Shisu Bihar ( ) along with his wife at 9.30am. The 69-yearold CM said he was confident of another win. Deb said, "When I was about to enter the booth, I got a call from the PM. He wished me and said BJP will end Communist rule in Tripura this time."
 
 CPM state secretary Bijan Dhar smelled a conspiracy in EVM snags and sought an explanation from the  . He demanded repolling in three booths of Takarjala constituency.
 
 
