Vadodara: Neeraj Bhesania, who since last two years is doubling up as an aspirant as well as a chemical engineer with the Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited on Monday was on cloud nine. He cleared the Common Admission Test (CAT) to get into one of the prestigious Indian Institute of Management (IIMs) with 99.92 percentile – probably highest in Vadodara. 

 “My aim is to get into one of the top three or four IIMs and pursue MBA operations,” said Bhesania, whose father Keshavlal works with GAIL India Limited and mother Geeta is a homemaker. “I am waiting for the IIMs to release their shortlist,” said Bhesania, who after graduating from M S University’s Faculty of Technology and Engineering (FTE) in 2015 was preparing for CAT 2017 himself. 
 
 Like him, Parisha Maniar, who had cleared her computer science engineering in the same year from FTE, bagged 99.72 percentile even as she is working with a software firm in the automotive industry in Pune since last one and a half year. “I will be waiting for call, preparing for group discussions and personal interviews to get into Faculty of Management Studies, Delhi or top IIMs like Ahmedabad, Bangalore or Kolkata,” said Parisha, daughter of soft skills trainer and businessman Rajiv and mother Smita, who works with an NGO. 
 
 A fourth year mechanical engineering student of FTE Deep Shah too cleared CAT with 99.6 percentile. “My career goal is to do MBA finance from IIM Kolkata,” said Shah, whose father Mahendra has retired as a junior clerk from a government school while mother Meena is a housewife. 
 
 Breaking the notion that only English medium student can clear CAT, Nisarg Vyas, who studied mechanical engineering from Marwadi University, Rajkot, cleared the test with 99.62 percentile. “Language never acts as a barrier,” said Vyas, whose father Sharad has retired as a professor while mother Varsha is a social studies teacher. 
 
 With 99.66 percentile, Urjit Agarwal, who graduated in mechanical engineering in 2015 from VNIT, Nagpur, is planning to pursue general MBA. “Now, everything depends on the calls,” said Agarwal, who since last two years is working with Reliance in Vadodara.
 
 Not just those from the engineering background, Tanay Mehta, who had competed his bachelors in commerce from MSU in 2016 and had bagged All India Ranking 45 in CA finals last year, too cleared CAT with 99.26 percentile. “I will opt for MBA in finance preferably from IIM Ahmedabad,” said Mehta, whose father Aatur is a practising CA while mother Dipali is a housewife. 
 
 
