PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited’s initiative of night servicing of buses has come to a naught, prompting a spurt in bus breakdowns.

 
 The transport body recorded over 15,000 bus breakdowns in the first four months of the year. Officials of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited ( ) on Friday admitted that the practice of maintaining the buses at night had stopped.
 
 A senior official, requesting anonymity, said things were not going right when it comes to bus maintenance.
 
 “The number of bus breakdowns has seen a steep rise. One of the main reasons for it is that the night maintenance of buses has stopped. We, too, are concerned about it and some steps are expected to be taken soon to put things in order,” the official told TOI.
 
 PMPML’s chief engineer S. Jadhav did not answer to the calls made to him. Nor did he respond to the text messages sent to him regarding the issue.
 
 A source in PMPML said the centralization of the anti-breakdown vehicles at the   depot did not make much of a difference.
 
 The official said, “All the nine breakdown vehicles were brought to the Swargate depot in April. Earlier, these vehicles were placed in the different depots. But it has not been of much help.”
 
 The problem with the earlier system was that if a bus belonging to the   depot suffered a breakdown near Swargate, the service vehicle there was not supposed to take care of it. “So, a decision was taken to station all the breakdown vehicles at Swargate,” he said.
 
 Whenever a bus is hit by a snag now, a service vehicle is dispatched from Swargate to repair it. 
 
 “However, it seems the system has not been of much help and we need to take some new steps,” the official said.
 
 “We need to think about some steps so that the breakdowns do not happen rather than focusing on steps after a breakdown. During the tenure of Tukaram Mundhe, a lot of technicians were transferred. Wrong people are at wrong place and we are trying to fix that issue at present. Once that is done, the situation will become better. We are planning to get more service vehicles, too,” the official said.
 
 Besides frequent breakdown of buses, fire on vehicles is also a teething problem of PMPML. “Travelling on PMPML buses is actually a headache. Often the buses develop snags and stop midway through the journey. Frequent fire is also an issue,” said  , a resident of Katraj.
 
 PMPML records a ridership of around 10 lakh passengers on 1,200 buses each day.
 
