MADURAI: At a time when elections to the cooperative societies throughout the state is under way, the process in Madurai is mired in accusations of misuse of power by the ruling party and bid to manipulate the elections held to as many as 852 societies in the district.

  from Vellalur village near Melur say that   members have manipulated elections to select the 11-member committee for the primary agricultural cooperative credit society without the need for an election which was supposed to take place on April 2. Election was scheduled to be held to the 230 societies on Monday. However, officials said that the polling was going to take place only for 11 societies as things were settled and committee members announced as having won unopposed to the rest. 
 
 Explaining how AIADMK won seven out of 11 members from the Vellalur society, Madurai district secretary of sugarcane farmers’ association K   said that AIADMK fielded 11 candidates while 14 on behalf of Tamil Nadu Farmers Association and five on behalf of TTV’s Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam party were fielded. Out of 14, nominations of 11 persons fielded by them and four of the TTV’s side were rejected without any valid reasons. While 15 were in the fray now, four ruling party men withdrew their nominations prompting the officials to announce the remaining as winners unopposed.
 
 “First they did not give us acknowledgement for the nomination. When we stood stubborn and staged various protests, it was announced that the nominations were accepted. Finally, to show as if fair process was followed, three seats were given to farmers and one to TTV side. If the 3,000-odd members for the societies got opportunity to vote, they would not have won seven seats,” Kathiresan said. While the elections for the more important societies are scheduled only in the consecutive phases, V Pichai, an office-bearer of CITU has already raised apprehensions. He said that the ruling party using unfair means to manipulate such elections is nothing new. 
 
 Already, clashes had happened between AIADMK and TTV supporters in various parts of the city including places like Ramanthapuram and   in the southern part. Polling for the second phase is to be held on April 12, for third phase on April 16 and fourth phase on April 23 respectively for 206, 192 and 222 societies in Madurai. State coordinator of Save Cooperative, an organisation working for the betterment of the cooperative societies, A  , said that the Vellalur model was being followed in 18,775 societies throughout the state. 
 
 “Over two crore members are there in the cooperative societies in the state, which are making crores of rupees as profit. The ruling party along with the officials are making such vital election a mockery. People are not even aware of such elections being held,” he said.
 
 The repeated attempts to reach joint registrar of cooperatives V M Chandrasekaran went in vain. When contacted, deputy registrar of cooperatives A   said elections were being conducted fairly without any favours. All the nominations are given same weightage. Elections could be held only to the societies where there were more people in fray than the available seats, she said.
 
 
