CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation on Tuesday declared that it would seize unclaimed vehicles on the city's streets and footpaths and auction them to recover costs. 

 The decision was taken at a meeting in   last month. 
 
 Civic body sources said pressure from resident welfare associations and the city traffic police influenced the decision.
 
 Officials will give vehicle owners 15 days to remove vehicles they've left on the roadside.
 
 "If the vehicles are not removed by then, corporation and the police will seize the vehicles," a corporation statement said.
 
 The local body has identified three spots across the city to dump the seized vehicles. In north Chennai (which includes zones 1 to 5), it will utilise a piece of land owned by the corporation on   in Royapuram for the purpose. 
 
 In central Chennai (zones 6 to 10), the hot mix plant compound on Mayor  , near the Gengu Reddy subway, will accommodate vehicles that the civic body tows away. It will use the site of   panchayat's one-time landfill to park the vehicles in south Chennai (zones 11 to 15).
 
 "We will take the vehicles from these spots for auction," said a corporation official.
 
 Unclaimed vehicles have hampered the civic body's efforts to create pedestrian-friendly infrastructure. tThe automobiles have also become spots where mosquito proliferate.
 
 Director of public health   had earlier told TOI that the civic body had discovered that large swarms of dengue and malaria mosquito were breeding in clusters of abandoned vehicles. 
 
 "Owners can approach the three points where these vehicles will be stored and stake their claim before the auction begins. On production of ownership documents, we will release the vehicles with a penalty and warning," another official said.
 
 Residents welcomed the move.
 
 "They must immediately auction off vehicles after seizing them. In most cases, abandoned cars are stolen," T Nagar resident   said.
 
 The corporation is unlikely to seize vehicles that the police have impounded and parked on roads near police stations. "Unless courts dispose cases to which these vehicles are tied, we cannot let the corporation take them away," a senior police officer said. 
 
 
