Abohar: Liquor contractor and former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Shiv Lal  , who is in jail in the murder case trial of Bhim Tank, was booked for allegedly forging property papers of a couple to enhance cash credit limit from a bank on Saturday.

 On the complaint of Dolly Arora, a resident of Abohar, police here booked Shiv Lal Doda, his wife Sunita Doda, son Gagan Doda, brothers Avinash Doda and Joginder Doda, business associates Rajiv Chugh, Inderjit, Rajesh Lakra, Amit Arora, Rahul Wadhwa and Aman Chalana and former branch manager of Punjab National Bank (PNB) Rakesh Raj Utreja and four others. The case was registered under sections 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and Sections 7 and 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 Dolly had submitted a complaint to the Fazilka SSP on December 7, 2017, alleging that her husband Neeraj Arora had suffered a loss in reality business in 2014. She claimed that Doda and his associates approached Neeraj’s father Satpal Thatai, a former Intelligence Bureau official, and offered to bail out Neeraj from the crisis.
 
 Doda was then SAD’s halqa (constituency) in-charge in Abohar. They allegedly forced the Thatai couple to sign some blank papers and obtained documents related to their properties. The family later learnt that their properties had been “fraudulently” pledged with the PNB to get cash credit limits of the liquor business firms owned by Dodas enhanced from Rs 22 crore to Rs 45 crore. Besides, no financial assistance to bail out Neeraj was given to his parents, the complainant alleged. Dodas allegedly refused to return the revenue documents too.
 
 According to information, the police had summoned all concerned persons from both parties to record their statements. While Doda skipped to record his statement, his kin and others involved in the case went to the court to seek anticipatory bail. On January 29, the court had directed the police to issue seven-day notices before arresting the accused.
 
 
