LUCKNOW: With both ruling BJP and combined opposition raring to claim the tenth Rajya Sabha seat, the fight for each vote is going to be intense for the March 23 election. 

 All eyes are on the four independent MLAs who hold the key as their vote will make a difference and tilt the scales. The focus is on powerful Thakur leader  , alias Raja Bhaiya, and it is to be seen if all independents will rally under him and vote en bloc or choose different paths. Then there are disgruntled leaders and the fence sitters. Here's a look at the key men: 
 
  Raja Bhaiya: The independent MLA from Kunda, Pratapgarh, has a loyalist, an independent, with him. So, effectively has two votes. His father was a VHP functionary and Raja Bhaiya himself has strong nationalist feelings. A thakur, could have tilt towards BJP and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Raja Bhaiya had a nightmarish experience of being booked under POTA by Mayawati. He is close to Mulayam and Shivpal, then to Akhilesh. 
 
 But his camp feels Yogi is not able to protect those loyal to him. SP MLC Yashwant Singh, who vacated his seat for Yogi, did not get Rajya Sabha nomination he desired. SP has sent feelers to Raja to support Jaya Bachchan so that SP could transfer votes of its two MLAs to Bahujan Samaj Party.
 
  Om Prakash Rajbhar: Rajbhar heads Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party which has four MLAs. He had been sulking and was in rebellious mood for being marginalized and boycotted all functions marking government's one year in office. Rajbhar was called to Delhi where he had a direct word with Amit Shah and is now unlikely to vote against BJP or abstain. 
 
  Nitin Agarwal: Once a minister in Akhilesh government, now singing   tune as his father   quit joined BJP. Nitin is being used by BJP as a bait to net other SP MLAs. His role will be crucial. 
 
  Amanmani Tripathi: Tripathi is an independent MLA, allegedly involved in criminal cases including murder. The BJP is using him to settle scores with traditional rival  . He has been seen around chief minister Yogi in House and in Gorakhpur functions. He will go by what his jailed father Amarmani Tripathi tells him.   had supported Amarmani in Mayawati regime. 
 
 
