PATNA: With a special CBI court in Ranchi on Saturday awarding two separate sentences of seven years each to RJD chief   in connection with the fourth fodder scam case pertaining to fraudulent withdrawal of Rs 3.13 crore from   treasury between 1991 and 1996, many believe the former   CM, considered one of the state’s most charismatic leaders, may no longer be able to play an active role in national politics.

 Lalu’s back-to-back incarcerations in multi-crore fodder scam has, according to political pundits, thrown a spanner into the efforts of the opposition parties to put up a united front against the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Soon after the pronouncement of judgment by the special CBI court on Saturday, political circles in Patna were abuzz with discussions over future strategies to be adopted by different parties.
 
 Although Lalu’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is the heir apparent to his father’s political legacy, the road ahead for RJD, it seems, is bumpy. Tejashwi, the former deputy CM and now the leader of opposition in state assembly, has proved his mettle after being dislodged from power by Nitish Kumar’s JD (U) last year following sudden turn of events in state politics which saw Nitish parting ways with Grand Alliance and returning to the NDA fold.
 
 It was, in fact, Tejashwi who engineered a split in NDA by convincing HAM-S chief Jitan Ram Manjhi to join hands with RJD during electioneering for bypolls to three seats in the state. Under his stewardship, the RJD won Araria Lok Sabha and Jehanabad assembly seats in the bypolls.
 
 Though Tejashwi has succeeded in proving himself as the heir apparent to his father, many in RJD seem uncertain about the party’s future in absence of the charismatic Lalu. “Tejashwi has no doubt shown promise and even the senior functionaries of the party are rallying behind him. However, he has still a long way to go. If   ji remains in jail for long, it will be difficult to say which way the party will head to,” said an RJD functionary wishing anonymity.
 
 RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari, however, claimed Tejashwi has complete control over the party. “Tejashwi has developed a mass following for himself,”   said.
 
 Meanwhile, the RJD held an emergent meeting at its state headquarters here on Saturday in the wake of Lalu’s fresh incarceration in fodder scam. “The party will chalk out its future strategy under the changed circumstances,” Tejashwi said.
 
 RJD’s ally   too feels that Lalu’s prolonged imprisonment may hit the attempts being made by opposition parties to form a united front against BJP in the 2019 general elections.
 
 “Lalu is definitely a big leader of the Grand Alliance. His absence will no doubt be felt. The RJD chief was spearheading the attempts for forming an anti-BJP alliance at the national level. Though Tejashwi is running RJD quite well, Lalu’s experience will be missed,” Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee acting president Kaukab Qadri said.
 
 JD (U), on the other hand, is of the view that Lalu, in or outside jail, will not have any impact on state politics. “It is ironical that Congress is dependent on a corrupt ally in the name of secularism,” JD (U) spokesperson Neeraj said. 
 
 
