KOLKATA: India pacer Mohammad Shami’s wife   has bought two open tickets to Delhi for her and their daughter to visit the injured cricketer against whom she had brought allegations of infidelity, domestic violence, attempt to murder and marital rape earlier this month.

 Jahan’s lawyer   told TOI on Monday evening that she had bought the tickets on Sunday evening after learning that   had met with an accident. However, she had been unable to fly till Monday night since she was unaware of where he had been put up. “Neither Shami nor his family members were taking her calls. We have learnt that he started from a friend’s house in Dehradun late on Monday evening for Delhi. We, however, don’t know where he will stay in Delhi. Hence, Hasin was unable to fly till Monday. But the motherdaughter duo will reach Delhi the moment she has a confirmation about Shami’s whereabouts,” said Hussain.
 
 On Saturday, Shami was was returning to Delhi from Dehradun to join the   team when his car collided with a truck in the Ahadrohi area in Dehradun. He was taken to a local hospital where he was administered stitches on his head and was released in the evening.
 
 “Their daughter is particularly upset with the news of the accident. Hasin wants to take her to meet him after realizing that the child is the one who is suffering most in their personal trouble. So she bought the tickets,” said Hussain.
 
 An open ticket means that the return date is not fixed. The date of the first flight can also be changed for a fee. Earlier in the day, Hasin visited Lalbazar police headquarters asking if a cop could accompany her on the trip.
 
 “I want to go to Delhi and meet Shami, not with any intent to compromise but only to make my daughter meet him. Whatever has happened between us, he is still my husband and I am worried after hearing the news about his accident. However, neither he nor his family is taking my calls. I will leave for Delhi the moment I get information about his stay,” she said.
 
