AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat government’s new law for regulation of fees in private schools ahead of 2017 assembly elections seems another futile effort in a long list of attempts made by the administration for more than 150 years in the region of Gujarat, from the time it was under Bombay Presidency.

 The debate over school fee structure, in fact, had begun 150 years ago. But the unchecked commercialization permitted by successive governments has festered to a new high which the authority finds tough to control. Had the government paid any heed to the golden words spoken one and a half century ago and now lying buried in bulky government records, the situation would have been different.
 
 In 1968, after an inspection of the existing schooling system in the Bombay Presidency, then director of public instruction, J B Peile wrote about fee hike, "A fair and suitable fee raises the tone of a school; but an excessive fee degrades it, by making it the monopoly of a class."
 
 In the voluminous ‘Report of the   in the Bombay Presidency’ submitted in 1869-70, the   education officials rued a situation in which reducing fees in vernacular schools could not bring students back to school.
 
 Educational inspector of the northern division (Gujarat), T B Curtis reported, "The reduction of fee from one rupee to 8 annas, which took place in 1868, did not lead to any increase in pupils, and in all places except the large towns, this fee is still considered to be high by the people."
 
 He recorded that in 50 schools in different regions of Gujarat, net decrease of students studying English was 143 against an increase of 38 students in classical languages.
 
 The reports of the public instruction department were full of discussion on how to collect fees and to what extent, and how much burden should the government bear.
 
 Peile was of the opinion that at least one third of the cost of education should be borne by the community. But he felt that the fees in Indian schools were higher than those in other countries and advised the government to bring it down.
 
 "Government can compare the scale of fees with those in force in other countries. I believe that the school fees are higher than those in France or Germany. The highest school fee rate in Prussia is £ 4 per annum, and in Switzerland £ 2-8. I hope, therefore, the government will come to conclusion that the public interests are sufficiently cared for in this matter," Peile wrote.
 
 The report mentioned that hiring good English teachers required more money and people did not have the capacity to pay high fees. This led the department to take a decision to close English classes in Gujarat "whenever they contained less than 15 boys paying an 8 anna fee".
 
 This situation posed a question before the director about the quality of education and he was clear that it is good not to have any teacher than to have a bad teacher. He wrote, "It is the duty of the government to refuse to supply any but good English teachers, and, if the people cannot subscribe the pay of a good English teacher, to refuse to allow a bad one to teach in a government school."
 
 
