CHANDIGARH: As ordered by the Punjab and Haryana  , the counselling for MD aspirants was conducted by   ( ), Sector 32, on Wednesday. Parents present with their children alleged that the counselling was being conducted in an unfair manner. 

 
 Early morning, they filed a petition in the high court seeking justice for students. The court in its response issued a notice to the GMCH, asking them clarification on the defiance of court orders and questioning the unfair division of seats. Thursday being the last day of counselling, the court has sought immediate reply from   and Hospital.
 
 The petitioners say that the seats left after all-India counselling are directly transferred to institutional quota, thus exceeding the limit of 50% seats reserved for GMCH students, defying the orders of both   as well as the high court.
 
 Savinder Singh, a parent present for the counselling, said, "GMCH officials are engaging in an illegal practice by adding leftover seats from all-India quota to institutional quota. With this, the GMCH students are at an added advantage which results in an unhealthy competition."
 
 The 17 seats that were left vacant after all-India level counselling have been added to GMCH's institutional quota which leaves a total of 48 seats out of 63 reserved for GMCH students. This clearly exceeds the permissible percentage, 50%. The petitioners want the vacant all-India seats to be equally distributed between domicile as well as institutional quota.
 
 
 
 
 Mukesh Arora, another parent, said, “The vacant seats should either be equally distributed or admission to those seats granted solely on merit basis. Such practices deny meritorious students the chance to study in the institution of their will.”
 
 With the number of seats being increased for GMCH students, the best of all MD specialisations are taken by them, leaving students from other colleges with very few options. Parents allege the lack of transparency in the counselling procedure by stating that the list of selected candidates doesn’t clearly mention the quota he/she has been admitted from. Also, the list of candidates selected for counselling which should ideally be disclosed at least 48 hours prior to the commencement of the counselling was released at 9pm on May 29.
 
 When TOI tried to approach B S Chavan, directorprincipal, GMCH, they were denied access.
 
