
 
 NEW DELHI: The   ruling permitting a ‘living will’ that specifies that a person should be taken off life support if he or she slips into a vegetative state or is beyond medical help is not likely to impact   as most policies are bound to honour their terms after one year of issuance.
 
 A section of senior citizens on Saturday flagged the Supreme Court’s decision, which permitted a person to specify a future medical condition where life support system is withdrawn, to express concern whether death through   will impact sum assured under life insurance policies.
 
 
 
 
 A 65-year old confided about his happiness that a ‘living will’ can provide for passive euthunasia and end suffering during irreversible critical illness period, but was worried if his multiple life insurance policies would be affected if his end is not to be counted as normal death. “Would it not be viewed as suicide by the insurance companies to deny my children the full sum assured in case of death under these policies,” he asked.
 
 His concern was echoed on several social media networks. TOI asked independent financial consultant Mahesh Tanwar, who advises people on investments in insurance and mutual funds, about the life insurance companies honouring their commitment to pay full benefits even if they decide to equate passive euthanasia with suicide, in the worst case scenario.
 
 Tanwar said the standard clause governing suicide in most life insurance policies at present provides - “The policy shall be void, if the Life Assured commits suicide (whether sane or insane at the time) at any time or after the date on which the risk under the policy has commenced but before the expiry of one year from the date of commencement of the policy.” In such a scenario, policy holder’s kin would get no money at all, he said.
 
 He said if a person commits suicide more than a year after commencement of the life insurance policy, then the   is legally bound to make full payment of the sum assured to the kin of the deceased. In the past, the life insurance policy clause used to specify a period of three years- that is no claim payment would be entertained if policy holder committed suicide within three years of commencement of the policy, he said.
 
 However, from January 1, 2014, the   of India mandated the companies selling insurance policies to effect changes in their agreements to make provision for some payment to the kin even if a policy holder committed suicide within a year.
 
 The change in life insurance agreement was applied to two categories of policies, one which is market-linked and the other, traditional life insurance policies. If a person who has taken a market-linked life insurance policy and commits suicide within one year of commencement of the policy, then his nominee would be entitled to receive 100% of the policy fund value.
 
 This means, if a person had paid a premium of Rs 1 lakh for the first year and of which the insurance company invested 80,000 in mutual funds and kept rest for insurance cover, then upon his suicide, his nominee would get back Rs 80,000, said Tanwar.
 
 But, in traditional life insurance plans, there is confusion whether nominee would get any money if the policy holder committed suicide within a year. While some portals claimed that after the 2014 IRDAI directive, the nominee was entitled to 80% of the premium already paid by the policy holder in the event of committing suicide within a year of commencement of the policy, Tanwar maintained that generally no insurance company pays anything in a traditional life insurance policy if the holder commits suicide within one year.
 
 
