MYSURU: The much-needed satellite terminal   for Mysuru at Naganahalli got approved in the recently held  . Once the terminal station becomes a reality, there will be more scope for additional trains to come to Mysuru, especially from Bengaluru.

 Although work on doubling the railway track between Bengaluru and Mysuru has been completed, passengers travelling between the two cities, apart from having a quicker journey by a few minutes, the work doesn’t offer any more benefits, said sources. Despite provisions for operating an electric locomotive along the line being in place, constraints at the Mysuru terminal appear to be in the way of operating a new train between the two cities.
 
 Officials with the South Western Railways (SWR) said additional trains can be operated only once another satellite terminal railway station is set up, since the Mysuru Railway Station is too congested. The terminal station was earlier proposed at   station, but the railway authorities later decided to have a terminal station at Naganahalli railway station, which comes before the Mysuru railway station. 
 
 The authorities estimated that the construction of a new terminal   will cost Rs 700 crore. The railway authorities in Mysuru, after a lot of hard work, finalized the detailed project report (DPR) for the new station, which was sent to the divisional headquarters in Hubballi, before it was subsequently forwarded to the Railway Board in New Delhi.
 
 The station in Mysuru is too congested, owing to which it is difficult to accommodate new trains. Including biweekly and tri-weekly trains, there are nearly 31 trains departing from Mysuru to Bengaluru, and as many arriving on a daily basis. Arrival of trains here entails a lot of work, especially in terms of cleaning. Accommodating more trains means more work in terms of maintenance, which is very difficult under the present circumstances. Once Mysuru gets a terminal railway station at Naganahalli, some of the load of traffic will be shifted to that station. In July, the railway authorities in Mysuru pursued the project aggressively.
 
 Industrialists and the public in Mysuru believe that running more trains between the two cities could lead to overall economic development of the city. SWR developed a detailed project report (DPR) for the railway station at Naganahalli, and plans are afoot to model it along the lines of the Yeshwantpur station in Bengaluru.
 
 
 
