BHOPAL: Construction of a building towards platform number 1 between two FOBs under redevelopment project of Bhopal station began on Friday. Demolition of RMS office, loco pilot lobby and box room at platform 1 has begun. 

 Senior divisional commercial manager   said, “The work has begun. The RMS office will be shifted to type IV quarter, which is identified and approved by the postal department. Loco pilots lobby with box room will be shifted to divisional training centre building and the RPF police station store will be shifted to first floor of PRS building till March 31.” “The tender for construction of station building phase I will open by April 18.”
 
 For resurfacing of platform number 6, a tender was opened and the letter for same was issued on February 27. However, planning for execution of work under non-block and block period is under finalisation and the work is yet to begin.
 
 Senior section engineer (bridge) and senior section engineer (works) station will be shifted to divisional training centre (engineering) by March 30. 
 
 An official, on condition of anonymity, said, “The division proposed projects for station building facade facelift worth Rs 5 crore, improving circulation area worth Rs 5 crore, provision of a skywalk (FOB) worth Rs 12 crore and improvement to platform surface, seating arrangement, which will cost around Rs 3 crore. All these projects are yet to get approval.” 
 
 The design of the new building, which will be constructed at platform 1, is yet to be finalised. Officials claimed it might get finalised in a couple of days and will be revealed once it is approved. 
 
  (IRSDC) has taken up the task to carry out redevelopment work. The IRSDC has a plan to construct two 3-storeyed buildings at platform 1 and 6 and a budget of Rs 5 crore was already sanctioned for the purpose. 
 
 The building will have food zone, lavish waiting halls and a big budget hotel. Along with it, a foot over-bridge (FOB) will be constructed joining the two buildings and commercial shops. 
 
 
