NEW YORK: US President Donald Trump’s daughter-in-law  , wife of Donald   Jr, was taken to a   hospital as a precaution on Monday after she opened an envelope addressed to her husband that contained an unidentified white powder, police said.

 A preliminary test indicated the substance wasn’t dangerous, police said.
 
 Vanessa Trump, 40, opened the letter addressed to the president’s son on Monday morning at their midtown Manhattan apartment, investigators said. She called 911 and said she was coughing and felt nauseous, police said.
 
 The Trump Organisation didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.
 
 Detectives from the New York Police Department’s intelligence division and Secret Service agents were investigating. “The Secret Service and our law enforcement partners in New York City are investigating a suspicious package addressed to one of our protectees received today in New York. This is an active investigation and we cannot comment any further,” Secret Service special agent Jeffrey Adams said in a statement.
 
 Vanessa Trump, a former model, and   Jr have five children, none of whom were home at the time of the incident. Three patients from the household were transported to the NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center for further evaluation, said fire department spokeswoman Sophia Kim. The three included Vanessa Trump’s mother, though she had not complained of symptoms, the police spokesman said.
 
 In March 2016, police detectives and FBI agents investigated a threatening letter sent to the Manhattan apartment of Donald Trump Jr’s brother, Eric, that also contained a white powder that turned out to be harmless. Envelopes containing white powder were also sent to Trump Tower, which served as Trump’s campaign headquarters, twice in 2016.
 
 US authorities have been on alert for mail with white powder in it since 2001, when envelopes laced with anthrax were sent to media outlets and US lawmakers, killing five people.
 
 Donald Trump Jr has been in the public eye for his role in 2016 meetings with a Russian attorney and others where the Trump campaign was offered potentially damaging information about Democratic rival Hillary Clinton. 
 
