NEW DELHI: After 17 years, Bihar state cricket team will be able to play in the Ranji Trophy and other national-level cricket tournaments this year. The Supreme Court on Thursday gave a green signal to its re-entry into the country's cricketing arena "in the interest of the game".

 A bench of Chief Justice   and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud directed the   ( ) to permit the state to participate in domestic cricket championships, witnessed by national selectors to scout talent for the Indian team in all three formats - Tests, One-Day Internationals and T-20.
 
 Bihar was barred from participating in BCCI-organised tournaments at the national level in 2000 when it disaffiliated   ( ) as its full member, a status that was conferred on Jharkhand after it was carved out from Bihar.
 
 BCA has since been more in the courts fighting a legal battle to get back the status to enable its team to take part in national cricket tournaments. The state team had been participating in Ranji Trophy tournaments since its inception in 1935 till 2000 and its best performance was in 1975-76 when it was the runner-up.
 
 Taking note that the third most populated state has been shut out from national-level cricket tournaments, the bench said the state's participation in the Ranji Trophy and other tournaments is in the interest of the game. It directed the BCCI to take appropriate steps to accommodate Bihar's cricket team in national-level tournaments from 2018 onwards.
 
 "Bihar must play in the Ranji trophy and other competitions. Bihar Cricket Association (BCI), which has been elected, shall be in charge of cricket administration," the bench said.
 
 BCCI had opposed the plea for allowing Bihar to participate in national-level tournaments and said only full members were allowed to take part. Senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, appearing for the board, told the bench that Bihar was just an associate member of BCCI and it could be eligible to participate only after getting the status as full member.
 
