CHENNAI: An app launched by the Tamil Nadu Accident and Emergency Initiative four months ago is throwing up numbers that are compelling policy makers to develop policies that will put “safety first” to bring down morbidity and mortality caused by head injuries due to trauma.

 Between November 2017 and February 2018, 70 state-run hospitals received 1.3 lakh trauma cases including more than 25,000 head injuries. Although a large percentage of trauma cases, two in five, were due to road accidents, doctors received a large number of patients after falls and assaults.
 
 “Safety first should be the slogan to prevent  . And it’s not just government’s responsibility,” said neurosurgeon Dr K Sridhar, director of neuroscience, Gleneagles Global Health City. “Helmets can prevent two-wheeler riders from head injuries. Construction workers can be saved if they are given helmets and harnesses,” he said.
 
 Officials said despite nearly 10 years of its existence, the 108 ambulance service was used to ferry only 30% trauma victims. “By not using ambulances, patients lose the crucial first aid within the golden hour,” said a senior neurosurgeon from Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). “For many patients, autos and taxis continue to be the first choice,” he said.
 
 At RGGGH, for instance, 2,204 of the 6,159 trauma cases were head injuries in the past four months, but only 1,003 patients were brought by 108 ambulances. The hospital topped the state for the number head injuries and is followed by Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai.
 
 Tamil Nadu, among the top three states in the country for number of deaths due to road accidents, initiated a programme in 2017 collaborating with international and national experts to bring down deaths and accidents. “It is a multi-departmental effort involving officials from departments of transport, highways and road ways and the police. We are already beginning to see some results,” said health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan. “Different departments are working on different problems. The health department is strengthening emergency rooms and is building a network across the state,” he said.
 
 Strengthening networks will help hospitals decrease morbidity and mortality. “It will improve organ donation rate and the quality of organs from brain dead patients because better trauma care centres will have better facilities and equipment to maintain such patients,” a senior critical care expert said.
 
 The mobile app, launched as part of the initiative, collects data from across state hospitals. Officials are planning to expand data collection to private hospitals. “Although, more than 80% of trauma patients are brought to the government hospitals, we would like to collect data from across private hospitals,” a senior health official said.
 
 
