CHENNAI: The no-detention policy till Class VIII in schools in Tamil Nadu may soon be a thing of the past, with the   recently holding talks to explore the possibility of a common exam for Class VIII students from the next academic year, said government officials.

 At present, students up to Class VIII in Tamil Nadu are promoted irrespective of their academic performance and the state government had not been in favour of the Centre’s proposal to do away with the policy.
 
 The no-detention policy, a key component of the Right of Children for Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, was introduced to ensure all children completed elementary education without the fear of failing. However, several studies conducted to analyse the impact pointed out that automatic promotion had a negative impact on students’growth.
 
 
 
 
 State industries minister M C Sampath, senior officials including chief secretary   and Industries secretary, K Gnandesikan were present.
 
 ‘The chief minister expressed keenness to do whatever possible to   in Tamil Nadu. It was an open meeting and we are very pleased with the way it went. While highlighting the government measures to improve road infrastructure, the CM also explained steps taken with Centre for expansion of Chennai international airport, besides steps to strengthen industrial clusters across the state,” Venu Srinivasan told TOI.
 
 “It was the first meeting of an industry delegation from the state with the chief minister in a long time. We are happy to have been called by the chief minister himself for a meeting as it used to be the industrialists seeking an appointment with the chief minister earlier and not being able to have such an interaction,” said P Ravichandran.
 
 The chief minister sought to know about the impact on industries due to the rolling out of GST and also highlighted the passing of the Business Facilitation Act, enabling industries to apply online for all approvals. About 11 companies have applied so far, for expansion of operations.
 
 “We are easily accessible and we are also open for suggestions to generate employment, the CM said, while assuring that he is willing to meet the industry every quarter to thrash out issues hindering growth and largescale employment generation,” said Cavinkare CMD C K Ranganathan, who added that the meeting went well.
 
 The team wanted the government to speed up the Port-Maduravoyal expressway, speed up acquisition of land for expansion of Chennai and other  , aggressive promotion of   in the state and also make Trichy a hub for solar power.
 
