Luggage trolleys, immigration counters and dutyfree shops are elements you expect at an airport, not at a dock. Now, these can also be seen at the port on the eastern shore as Mumbai is set to reassert itself as a waterfront city.

 The   has finally pulled the anchor on a series of long dormant plans to reactivate the eastern waterfront and the buzzword among planners inside MbPT’s heritage offices is that the city can resemble Miami.
 
 
 
  An already functional international cruise terminal behind Ballard Estate is part of the regeneration of an 11km stretch along the city’s eastern coastline, which will feature a stylish marina, a redesigned jetty with water transport lines to Navi Mumbai and Mandwa, and a maritime museum—all within the next few months.
 
 With the Mumbai Port Trust finally pulling the anchor on a series of long dormant plans to reactivate the eastern waterfront, Mumbai Port Trust chairman   said that by February-end, we will have our first domestic cruise ship set sail.
 
 “The first domestich cruise will take passengers from Mumbai to Goa and Cochin and back,” said Port Trust chairman Sanjay Bhatia, who earlier spearheaded the City and   ( ). The international terminal has been operational for over a year, but its potential is far greater, he said, adding, “A consultant appointed to look at Mumbai’s international cruising potential has suggested that the terminal can accommodate 30 lakh passengers per year.” In the run-up, roads leading to the waterfront are being opened up to ease the expected increase in traffic. An evacuation plan has been put in place with some roads towards the waterfront being marked as one way and addition of traffic signals and other features to ease flow of vehicles. Certain roads will be kept exclusively for fisherfolk and others for cargo, a planner said.
 
 Also, planners want to embrace the remnants of the city’s port activities that still dot the landscape into the new infrastructure and highlight them. For example, a more than 100-year-old stone watchtower used to guage tides will be thrown open for the public. Old cast-iron carriageways, cannons and telephone booths lying around an old boat repair workshop in   will be brought to the domestic cruise terminal area and displayed at a museum.
 
 “The idea is that even people who are not interested in going on a cruise would want to come and hang around here and enjoy the ocean,” says  , a senior planner working on the waterfront.
 
 While the western side of the city has the voluptuous arc of  , the eastern side has remained largely off limits to the public, despite offering lovely seaface views and vast open areas. The eastern waterfront lies between the Central Railway’s Harbour Line and the ocean. This space has historically had a cohabitation of port activities, defence activities and large and small-scale industry, much of which still revolves around marine business. Small units along P D’Mello Road, which runs below the Eastern Freeway, have quaint names like ‘High Seas Engineering’; and stores still sell used truck tyres with holes bored into them so that they can be tied to the sides of boats as floater devices. The area is dotted with names like Powder Bunder (where gunpowder was once unloaded ) and Godi Ghadiyal (Godi, literally means dock, or the lap on which ships rest) Bhaucha Dhakka or Ferry Wharf, which has long serviced fishermen and villagers, is being turned into a state-of-the-art terminal with a roll on-roll off facility that will allow vehicles to board boats and travel across to Mandwa, starting April this year. Across the harbour, Mandwa’s breakwater facility along with a similar jetty is almost complete. If all goes according to plan, Mumbai’s interaction with the sea will be even more poetic and complete.
 
