Nagpur: Three crimes against girls, including a rape, were registered on Sunday at different police stations. In the first incident, a Std I girl was allegedly raped by a minor for nearly a month when she used to be alone at her house. MIDC police have nabbed the 16-year-old boy and produced him in front of the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB). Medical check up of the survivor was conducted on Monday. The eight-year-old used to be with her four-year-old brother at home while her parents went to work from morning till evening. The juvenile, who lives in the neighbourhood, was well acquainted with the survivor’s family. So he used to regularly visit her home. However, a month ago, the juvenile reached the survivor’s house and raped her, taking advantage of the fact that her parents were not at home. The Std X boy then threatened the survivor of dire consequences if she spoke to anyone about the incident. The survivor’s health started deteriorating a couple of days back, and her parents took her for medical check-up. The doctors told her parents about her ordeal, following which the parents approached MIDC police station. In the second incident, a 10-year-old girl was molested by her neighbour while she was alone at her residence. Pintu Shahane, 24, entered the house on the pretext of drinking water, and molested her. Hudkeshwar police have arrested the accused following a complaint by the survivor’s parents. In the third incident, a father caught a neighbour red-handed molesting his 15-year-old daughter while she was alone at home on Saturday. The survivor had left the door open since she was expecting her father to come home. Taking advantage of the open door, accused Akash Kushwah entered her house and allegedly molested her. Kushwah had grabbed the survivor’s hand when her father reached home, and caught him red-handed. Ajni police have arrested Kushwah following a complaint by the minor. In all three incidents, cops have registered cases under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.