CHANDIGARH:The residents of Burail have been pushed behind a seven-foot railing and they are not happy about it. In fact, they now feel like second-class citizens.

 The MC laid the metal structure along the village’s boundary in Sector 45A and B, from AKSIPS to  , nearly five months ago to separate the urban village from the sector. But, with the railing having no exits for pedestrians, residents of the village are forced to walk an extra kilometre just to exit the village.
 
 Though the railing had two 2-foot wide exits in the railing, they were blocked a few months ago. “The   has already started affecting our everyday business. Customers now feel helpless in accessing us from beyond the barrier. But ever since the two exits were blocked, it has become impossible to reach the other side of the road, without having to walk for about half a kilometer till either of the ends of the road,” said Gaurav, the owner of a shop in Burail’s Motor Market.
 
 The issue of not having any direct access to reach the other side of the road has also affected senior citizens of the village, who complain about losing out on easy way to cross to the other side. “What about us or other people with disabilities? How will they walk that far to exit? This is unjustified torture,” said a Burail shopkeeper, who did not wish to be named.
 
 Temple-goers have also found it hard to reach the other side to reach the Pracheen Jawalamukhi Mandir in Sector 45A. The presence of at least three schools in the vicinity has also increased the risk of children trying to cross the road by climbing the barrier and hurting themselves while doing so. “Just two weeks ago, a girl studying at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 45, bruised herself while climbing the barrier. She, anyway, had no other option,” said Priya, a Burail resident.
 
 Villagers have now created a temporary exit by digging out the ground at one point to crawl under the railing. Residents Welfare Association, Sector 45A, which had filed a petition in Punjab and   high court in 2013 for a barrier to separate the village from the city area, has said it was just following the “original plan” for the city.
 
 “Sector 45A co-exists with a village, just like Attawa in Sector 42. There was a provision for separating the two in the city’s plan for 1997; this has also been reconsidered for Master Plan 2031. We are just acting on that,” said  , president of the association and the petitioner in the matter. “There was so much traffic on this road at all times of the day. After the barrier, we have some relief.”
 
