Gurgaon: Green activists on Wednesday threatened to move the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against the district administration for not approaching the forest department to inspect a site in Sehrawan, Manesar, where the   is likely to be shifted. 

 According to green activists, the area has a number of water bodies and a dam, which makes it an important habitat for many wild animals, including leopards, hyenas, blue bulls, jackals, deers, foxes and many birds. “We will move the NGT as the authorities are working on plans to shift the Kherki Daula toll plaza, without involving the forest department. As many as three accidents involving leopards have already taken place on the national highway in Sehrawan. Many rescue operations for leopards had to be conducted in nearby areas. When will the authorities wake up and get the site inspected by the forest department?”  , retired chief town planner and environmentalist told TOI.
 
 The forest department officials said that a rise in the number of vehicles in Sehrawan - an important wildlife corridor - would indeed adversely affect wildlife habitat in the Aravali zone. “Shifting the toll plaza to a wildlife corridor is definitely a matter of concern. So far, we have not been called for any kind of inspection or review of the site. However, if any such proposal comes up, we will recommend at least an underpass or overpass on that stretch to facilitate the movement of wild animals,” said an official. Two years ago, the forest department had built the dam and a pond in the area so that wild animals had access to water.
 
 According to sources, the district administration held a high-level meeting last week, after TOI reported the existence of a wildlife corridor at the site. “The proposal to engage wildlife experts and the forest department for an inspection of the area came up at the meeting. However, nothing has been proposed on paper yet,” said a source.
 
 On January 8, TOI had highlighted the concern of environmentalists, objecting to the decision to shift a toll plaza from Kherki Daula to Sehrawan, saying that a rise in the number of vehicles on the highway would adversely affect the wildlife-rich area. The district administration has already granted 65 acres to   to shift the toll plaza. Five acres are in Sehrawan and the remaining land is spread across villages in Manesar.
 
 
