MOHALI: A topper in his school,   was a brilliant student and scored 10 CGPA in Class X.

 Gurkiranjit Kaur, principal of  ,  , where   studied, said he was quiet, well-mannered and intelligent.
 
 Recalling his school days in the school, the teachers said they remember Karanbir being brilliant in studies and always a topper in every subject.
 
 Born in December 2000, Karanbir joined Shivalik Public School in Class VII in 2011 and completed his matriculation in 2015-16, informed Gurkiranjit Kaur.
 
 Karanbir’s class teacher, who did not wish to be named, said, “I remember Karanbir. He was one of those good-natured and intelligent students who always topped in every subject. Physics and mathematics were his favorite subjects. It is shocking that he will end his life in such a manner. We never found him weak.”
 
 During the results of Class X, various newspapers carried the photograph of Karanbir along with others as top achievers who scored 10-CGPA.
 
 Remembering the day, teachers said the school had also displayed news cuttings on the notice board of the school under outstanding achievers’ category. The school management also said all the toppers, including Karanbir, were also honoured for their achievement.
 
 School director D S Bedi said Karanbir’s suicide came as shocking news to him.
 
 He said, “Parents must give more time to their children. They must talk to them as much as they can, so that parents can read the mind of their child and also must counsel them if needed. The exam days are most crucial and we have been reading news of children committing suicides due to examination pressure.”
 
 Another teacher, who didn’t wish to be named, said parents must spend time with their children.
 
 “In my long career as a teacher, I have seen brilliant students straying from their paths, some getting into bad habits and others taking drastic steps. I think parents must talk to their kids and never leave them alone. Parents must know what their children are going through and stand with them especially in their adolescence.” 
 
 
