BENGALURU: Residents living along  , which the BBMP wants to widen to ease traffic congestion, are caught between the devil and the deep sea. While some are divided over the proposal as their properties are likely to be acquired, many are upset with the civic agency’s TDR-based compensation model and demanding a fair amount.

 On Saturday, the residents will stage a protest against the Palike to seek better road infrastructure and oppose the Transferable Development Rights model. The current width of the road is 18-24 metres and the proposal is to widen it to 45. Many are likely to lose 7-12 metres of their properties, which in most cases, is either a large portion or the entire property itself.
 
 So far, more than 200 objections have been filed by property owners against  . “While some have opposed it, many are against   itself,” said BBMP officials. The Palike conducted a public meeting in Mahadevapura zone a month ago.
 
 Bhagat Reddy, a property owner, felt widening is not needed. “It proposes to improve only Iblur Road Junction, whereas there are four other major junctions — Kasavanahalli, Halanayakanahalli, Doddakannahalli and Carmelaram. Widening is required at these junctions and not the entire stretch. In fact, it hasn’t proved to be a solution on other stretches too,” he said. 
 
 Reddy’s plot, a little less than half an acre, is marked for acquisition near Doddakannahali village. He said they should get fair compensation if the road is indeed widened. “TDR has no market and helps only vertical growth,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 S Naveen Kumar, a resident of Kaikondrahalli, owns a three-storey building on Sarjapur Main Road. The entire structure is marked for acquisition.
 
 “I am against road widening. Traffic can be managed by improving the junctions; widening is not required at all. I have shops on two floors and live on the top floor. Most of those who want road widening only work here and are not affected like residents. Why should we lose our livelihood to make way for traffic movement,” he asked. Naveen is mulling taking legal action.
 
 However, there are some who are vociferously demanding widening of the road. “It’s left to BBMP on how it compensates property owners; the government must ensure it is fair. With increasing traffic on Sarjapur Road, there’s a need to widen it,” said a resident.
 
 Mahadevapura joint commissioner Vasanthi Amar B V said a notification had been issued to report objections, if any, to the project. “We have received objections. The matter is being discussed,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 BBMP proposed to widen the Sarjapur Road stretch, from Iblur Junction to Chikka Kannahalli railway overbridge, and got the detailed project report (DPR) ready in 2016. In July 2017, the agency issued a notification to 248 property owners to apply for TDR certificates in lieu of compensation towards the land they will lose to widening. However, the owners are demanding compensation as per market value of their properties. 
 
 Yelahanka road to be named after Nagrota martyr
 
 BBMP will name a road in Yelahanka after Major Akshay Girish Kumar who was killed in a terror attack in Nagrota in 2016. 
 
 Hailing from Bengaluru, Kumar, 31, came from a family with a long tradition of serving in the armed forces, and was one of the seven officers and soldiers killed in the terrorist attack on an army unit in Nagrota, Jammu and Kashmir, on November 29, 2016. 
 
 The 16th Cross Road stretch from 13th Main to Major Unnikrishnan Road in Yelahanka will now be known as Major Akshay Girish Kumar Road.
 
 The Palike had first taken this decision on August 30, 2017, and invited suggestions/objections on September 16. Since no objections were received, the proposal was cleared at the Palike council meeting on February 19.
 
 
