Dear Ms Swara  , 

 At the outset, Madam, let me congratulate you on the phenomenal buzz your open letter to Sanjay Leela   has generated. For a lot more than fifteen minutes, you managed to steal the limelight away from Deepika’s slender waist, and even more importantly, from radical culture cops avenging their wounded pride, with your head and nose intact. In fact, you managed to shift the attention from heads and noses entirely. 
 
 I cannot laud you enough for speaking up against the vilification and victim-shaming of sexual assault survivors. You said: 
 
 “Women have a right to live, despite being raped.”Agreed. 
 “Women are not just walking talking vaginas.” Agree strongly. 
 “In general, there is more to life than a vagina.”  , yes, yes. 
 “Padmaavat glorifies Jauhar.” Certainly. 
 
 So, you see, I do agree, vehemently even, with all these observations. It is when you make the connect between Jauhar and victim-shaming, Ms Bhaskar, that you squarely miss the point. You see, you understand Jauhar to be a reaction, voluntary or otherwise, to sexual assault. A medieval death sentence forced on   whose chastity was under threat. Women whose life depended on the purity of their vaginas. 
 
 You couldn’t be farther off the mark. Jauhar was not a personal act — it was a military act. A last resort act of defiance, where one chose death over defeat; whereby Rajput women who had lost their men and their battles, still denied the enemy his victory. We are not talking about rape as we know it in a peaceful society here. Rape and sexual crimes have always been part of war, and war strategy, even. Those who chose to jump enmasse into pyres did so not because they were women, but because they were the last line of soldiers who fought to their deaths. And yes, history will remember those who chose death and dignity over defeat. History has that habit.
 Every religion deifies its martyrs and forgets its converts. 
 
 The Christians, who were killed by the Romans, are beatified. Sikhs who laid down their lives refusing to embrace Islam are revered till this day. Every nation thanks its dead soldiers through its living. Kamikaze pilots are deified in  . That’s how it is, and that’s how it should be. That does not mean we reject those who chose a different path. These were never about chastity. There were several Rajput women, who, in fact, did choose to live. One famously went on to become Alauddin Khilji’s favourite wife. Not everyone was so lucky. They truly were the ones who were reduced to vaginas.
 
 Throughout history, people seem to have this inscrutable pattern of choosing to die for their freedom and convictions. Why on earth would anyone choose death over a lifetime of persecution, abuse or servitude, right? Why do even animals want to die free instead of living in captivity? And why do we glorify such people as heroes, when clearly, that is belittling all the other folks who chose to live, right? Do you see how hollow this is sounding? 
 
 I understand how, and why, as a self-professed lifelong fan of Mr Bhansali’s works, Padmaavat(i) affected you the way it did. I understand how you think Padmaavat, as a movie, will speak to the impressionable masses, resurrect banished concepts, and turn back progress by a few centuries.
 The rest of us, who do not share your unbridled enthusiasm for Mr Bhansali’s style of filmmaking, are not all that perturbed. The “stunning visuals, deep performances and able direction” that so impacted you, were, for most of us, not part of a larger dialogue at all. You may be surprised to know that a lot of us do not look up to Mr Bhansali for our daily dose of history. His retellings, replete with dancing kings and queens and barbaric raw meat-devouring villains are, at best, fairytales in historical clothing, horrendously inaccurate clothes at that. The movie got so many things wrong; yet, the one thing it got right, was the depiction of Jauhar.
 
 Mr Sanjay Leela Bhansali will be doing history (and himself) a big favour by leaving history alone. Yet, if he does succumb to the temptation of making yet another historical epic, then he will be well advised to issue this comprehensive disclaimer — No offence intended to any Ranas, Senas or Vaginas. Perhaps then we can all get back to being less open with our letters. Until then, Ms Bhaskar, Good Luck!
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own)
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
