SHIMLA: A 20-million-year-old fossil tree, which is 55-foot in length, has been discovered in the tourist town of Kasauli. This is the longest preserved fossil tree trunk found in the   till date. 

 In 1988, a 15-foot fossil tree was found in   of Solan district in Himachal Pradesh.
 
 Tree fossils, measuring 5 to 15 feet, have been found earlier in Barog and Jagjitnagar, but this is for the first time a tree fossil has been found in Kasauli, said Dr Ritesh Arya, director, water and geothermal wing, International Sustainable Energy Organisation (ISEO), Geneva, who discovered the Kasauli fossil.
 
 The Kasauli fossil will be formally identified at the Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences in Lucknow.
 
 Arya, who is from Kasauli, said the fossil tree should be preserved by the Himachal government at same location where it was found. 
 
 
 
 The Kasauli fossil will be formally identified at the Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences in Lucknow.
 
 Arya said preservation of these fossils will boost geo-tourism and help educate people about life as it existed in the geological past.
 
 According to Arya, thousands of well-preserved silicified fossil trees have been reported in the Kasauli formation. Most of these have been destroyed due to mining and road cutting in the past, he added.
 
 The bark of the 55-foot fossil tree has been preserved, but most of the internal structure has been destroyed due to silicification process in which silica replaces the organic matter.
 
 The discovery of a 20-million-year-old fossil tree in Kasauli means that that it was deposited close to the coast and now established presence of rhinoceros in the area means that the elevation of Kasauli was not more then 200-500 meters above the mean sea level, said Arya.
 
 Presence of flower fossils shows that these sediments were deposited in calm lake environments and seasonal variation had started, added Arya, who has discovered other fossil remains like Garcinia Gluta Combretum Syzygium fern palms.
 
 He said that the presence of massive fossilized river channels with logs of wood embedded in them shows that flooding induced due to global warming was playing a crucial role in uprooting the trees and later transporting them along the course to nearby basins.
 
 
 
