Chennai: It’s 2am, the prime slot, and Aju Mathew is at the top of his game. Focused on keeping up a strong defence, the night’s still young for this 31-year-old HR professional, who dribbles away on a roof-top   facility on Old Mahabalipuram Road while the neighbourhood sleeps.

 A shot of adrenaline   with friends is not restricted to the dance floor for this growing tribe of people that is bringing the party to the playground and redefining the idea of Friday night fever. Making space for their   in between deadlines and projects, these sports enthusiasts have made turfs and grounds their haunts.
 
 Kicking off the weekend on a high, lawyer Mano Mani Ezhil makes it a point to keep the date with his buddies on the second-floor of T Nagar roof-top football facility Tiki Taka every week. "On Fridays we start after midnight and go on for a couple of hours. We are avid football fans, and watch premier league every Saturday and inevitably end up trying new moves that we see on TV in our match next week," says the 23-year-old. The passion for the game has translated into a weekend activity that is a stress buster and a way to stay in touch with friends. But with routine of work life taking over, late nights have become the only time for indulgence.
 
 The growing number of indoor sports facilities across the city has only encouraged this new-found enthusiasm for a variety of sports — from futsal to short format cricket and badminton. While facilities such as Turf 137 in Velachery, Chennai Futsal on OMR and Airmasz   Club in Madipakkam are clear about their graveyard shifts, most others started out with the 11pm closing hours, which are now being pushed further. "The 9 to 5 work hours don’t always allow people to take up a sport. We have seen demand go up for late night slots and they are now popular during the weekends. Sometimes we also keep the facility open longer during weeknights," says Karthikeyan, owner of Airmasz.
 
 Though apparently erratic, the time on court brings a lot of discipline and inspiration to players. "The sport helps me keep it real, especially in the age of social media. Three hours on the court has earned me friends for life," says   player and actor Elvis Alexander. Playing a sport that’s not very popular in the city means Alexander has to travel 11km daily to the corporation ground on Venkatanarayana Road to make lay-ups. Though a few residents have expressed reservations about their midnight matches, the 26-year-old feels it is a way of reclaiming public spaces and making them safer. "As the mornings and evenings are taken up by children, the ground is free for us only after 9.30pm, which works well for us post office," says Alexander.
 
 A cocktail of exhilaration and excitement drives these men on, who don’t mind cutting back on snooze time. "It’s something we look forward to," says Mathew. Taking to the sport in his late 20s after his college days, the 31-year-old, who was in the finale of a corporate league that would take him to Liverpool. Though he lost the game, he came back with loads of determination to play at the competitive level.
 
 After 10-hour long days at the desk, the three nights a week from 11pm till 3am, may sound too harsh for the body and this is where one needs to draw a line, warns sports trainer Ramji Srinivasan, "Sport has a number of pros for physical and mental health but playing late into the night does upset the circadian rhythm. It depends on the individual but a good six to eight hours of sleep is a must, without which in the long term health can take a beating." Cardiac issues, blood pressure fluctuations and diabetes can show. But at the end of the end of the day if it keeps the heart happy, there is no escaping the game mode. 
 
 
