Actor   believes that his faith in Lord Shiva and Ganga keeps bringing him back to Varanasi. “From childhood, I have been going to Haridwar, frequently, and now most of my film projects are based in Varanasi. So I can see some kind of Ganga connect here. Off late, I feel more of a UPite as my parents have moved to Vrindavan. I land in Delhi and go straight to Vrindavan to meet them. I also keep visiting Lucknow, so in the last six months I have done a lot of travelling to UP,” said he when we met him in Varanasi while he was shooting there for a film.
Rajneish says that his UP connect is strengthened further by the characters he essays in films. “In 'Direct Ishq', I was the typical Banarasi guy, who is ready to battle it out on the slightest pretext, while the character which I am portraying in 'Mushkill...', is a happy-go-lucky guy who becomes an intense person after some incidents that happen in his life,” said the actor of the film 1920 fame.
 Mushkill, Fear Behind You, the film he was shooting for in Varanasi till recently, is the third horror-thriller that Rajniesh has done in the recent past. On being questioned about his fetish for such films, the actor laughed and said, “My childhood keeps coming back every time I do a horror film. As a child, I had watched several spooky films. In fact, I have grown up on Ramsay films. I was brought up in a joint family of ten kids and I was the youngest among my cousins, who would force me to watch a horror film. I would be made to sit in the middle without cushions, so that I have nothing to hide my face in when some sinister scenes came on the screen. Working in a horror thriller is certainly stimulating, the reason I have been seen in several of them.”
 
  
  Rajniesh Duggal at   in Varanasi (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) 
 
 
 Though a winner of TV reality show 'Khatron Ki Khiladi', Rajniesh’s recent tryst with TV had some unsavoury moments. The TV show 'Aarambh : Kahani Dev Sena Ki', in which he played dual characters, went off air before time as the show was abruptly wrapped up. “As an actor, I gained a lot from  .... I had a layered character where I got the chance to show all my emotions — a warrior, a lover — all were rolled into my character. It was really unfortunate that a tiff between the production and the channel really messed up the entire show. All the actors of the show got a shock once they got to know the fate of the show. Aarambh..., unlike ' ' and' Maharabhat', about which everyone is aware of, was an unknown story. Unknown stories require some time to breathe and then to grow. But the makers of the show gave it just two months and said let’s finish it in the next eight episodes,” shares Rajniesh.
 “The lesson that I have learnt from this entire sequence of events is that now I will do a daily show and not a weekend show. If 'Aarambh...' had been a daily show, its fate would have been different. The other thing I am wary of doing is an unknown historical show,” says the actor.
 
 
 
