These days, I’m known as Ashita   and not by my original surname, Chandrappa. The kind of recognition I’ve got after the show is incredible,” says Ashita, who is a celebrityparticipant on   5. “Bigg Boss showed the world what I truly am about. I bared my heart and soul as I had had enough of all the negative publicity surrounding me in the industry. I tend to speak my mind and that’s not a trait that is appreciated here,” she adds. 

  With a distributor-producer father, Ashita has been working hard towards making a mark in showbiz for a while now. “I have grown up surrounded by the biggest stars. While my family has been in the movie business for a long time, they never wanted the daughters of the family entering the fray. So, I’ve been swimming against the tide and trying to make it on my own.   was my first tryst with showbiz and I had an unpleasant experience during the making of that serial, as I was blatantly honest and called a spade a spade. It was probably the reason behind the negative publicity around me that I was born with a silver spoon and that I don’t need to work hard,” says Ashita. 
 
  Since then, the actress went about doing serials in other languages. “So, when Bigg Boss came my way, I took it as a challenge and went with the intent to show myself to the world. I’m glad people saw that I’m someone who is totally opposite to the image they had of me so far,” she avers. Ashita adds that of all the contestants on BB5, she has been the most low-key after her exit from the show. “That’s because I wanted to speak only when I had something substantial to talk about,” she tells us.
 
  And her big moment is here. Ashita will soon be seen in an epic television saga titled Devyani. “It is a love story and I star opposite Darshan who was earlier seen in Avanu Mattu Shravani. 
 
  We play childhood sweethearts and the story that follows is really intriguing. Moreover, the clincher for me is that I get to play a princess who belongs to family that is the last surviving of a royal kingdom,” says Ashita. 
 
  The promo of her look in Devyani was introduced recently on Manasa Sarovara. “We will go on floors in April and I’m looking forward to this fresh innings. Being choosy has worked out for the best after all,” sums up Ashita.
 
 
