Panaji:   Fernandes is still trying to figure out why he was sent off and later suspended for the half-time fracas that ensued during FC Goa’s   battle against Jamshedpur FC in Bhubaneswar last week.
 
  Brandon, along with captain Bruno Pinheiro and defender Sergio Juste were all shown the red card and handed three-match suspensions for their role in the tunnel fight that also saw three Jamshedpur FC players receive the same treatment. The suspensions crippled   and, not surprisingly, the Goan franchise lost in the semifinal against East Bengal.
  
  FC Goa had lodged an immediate appeal with the Appeals committee of the   ( ) but their pleas have fallen on deaf ears.
  
  “I still don’t understand the reason why I was sent off. It’s an open secret that I was incensed that the goal was disallowed but I was nowhere near where the reported ‘fight’ took place,” said Brandon.
  
  In his defence, Brandon shows a picture that widely circulated on social media. It shows the ‘fight’ inside the tunnel but Brandon is watching from a distance (bottom left) while Juste too seems unmindful of what’s happening and simply walks away with Jamshedpur defender Andre Bikey.
  
  “First of all, the referee disallowed the goal, after being advised by those who watched television replays. I questioned him about that, and even if the goal was disallowed, he should have awarded us a corner-kick. Even that didn’t happen. Then Subrata (Paul) walked up to the referee and I was discussing the disputed goal with him.
  
  “At half time, after I had turned Anas (Edathodika) away, (Kervens) Belfort came running to me and spoke rudely. I gave it back to him, saying I wasn’t speaking with him. On my way to the tunnel, an angry Belfort confronted me and said, ‘meet me after the game, I will kill you’. Bruno heard this and asked him to take it easy. It was here that the Jamshedpur FC goalkeeper’s coach interfered and there was commotion,” said Brandon, detailing what transpired before the infamous tunnel fight.
  
  Brandon said the CCTV cameras placed just outside the dressing room should present a clearer picture and the Appeals committee should overturn the ban.
  
  “I want to make it clear that nobody manhandled me, and neither did I touch any opponent. I wasn’t involved,” said Brandon.
