Panaji:   The ministry of urban development has made a proposal to the government to reduce the dependence of municipal bodies on government funding, and make them self-reliant by helping them find new sources of revenue earning.    It has been proposed that class ‘A’ municipal bodies be given five years, and class ‘B’ seven years to achieve the new status, said urban development minister Francis D’Souza while speaking to TOI on Wednesday.    “The proposal has been submitted to the government,” said D’Souza who also agreed that most municipalities are not very active in collecting revenue.    In the last few years, the dependence of municipal bodies on the government for financial assistance has only increased and few aggressively tap new sources of income.    “Our plan is that they should have some avenues to earn revenue so they don’t depend on the government for financial assistance,” said D’Souza.    One of the options is that municipal bodies can built theaters with two or three screens and can earn money by renting them. The seating capacity of such multiplexes should be limited to 100 or 150 seats.    Valpoi municipality, D’Souza said has built a theater with a single screen, and it is yet to be auctioned.    “They shouldn’t be as big as Inox theaters,” said D’Souza. This could be one of the options for urban civic bodies to enhance their revenue collection besides, its traditional sources such as house tax and other taxes.    The urban development minister said he has been also after municipalities to set up recovery cell for efficiently collect taxes.    It has been done by Mormugao Municipal council, Mapusa council, Corporation of the city of Panaji and of late, Margao council has formed recovery cell while rest are yet to follow suit.    Urban development minister said basically, and as mandated under the 74th amendment of the Indian Constitution, municipalities are autonomous bodies. “Their dependence on the government for financial aid gives latter a chance to control them,” said D’Souza.    D’Souza said leave alone the grants, yet times, the municipalities are unable to spend their own funds without government’s approval, and several unrelated queries are raised with regards to purchase proposals. This happened in case of municipalities of Margao and Mormugao with regards to purchase of new car for their respective chairpersons, he added.    There have been regular complaints by the municipalities about delays in release in release of grants by the government, and the issue was raised on the floor of the House more than once in 2017.     