MUMBAI: Not a single woman was booked for illegal travel in disabled coaches on   trains though over 42,000 such cases were recorded by the Railway Protection Force ( ) last year. Able-bodied women account for 30%-40% of illegal travellers in disabled coaches, according to activists. On  , only about 2% of the over 14,000 booked for illegal travel in disabled coaches were women.

 The problem is acute as one of the two disabled coaches in each train is located next to a ladies coach. Also, though such cases are brought to their notice, RPF personnel do not book the women due to limited female strength in the force, claimed activists.
  
  
 “In slow CR trains, during peak hours, 50-60 able-bodied women disembark from the handicapped coach at Ghatkopar station alone. The train starts by the time these women alight, leaving no time for handicapped travellers to get off,” claimed activist Nitin Gaikwad of Prahaar handicapped railway commuters’ association. “We have made numerous complaints, but in vain. It is necessary to change the position of the  .” Gaikwad had made a plea under the RTI Act to WR and CR, demanding to know the number of able-bodied women booked last year for travelling in disabled coaches. 
 
 On March 8, Trishala Dhegle was the first woman railway commuter to be booked under the stringent Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act. Activist Fatima D’Souza, who had pressed charges against Dhegle, said arguing with women in disabled coached has become a daily affair. “The most common excuses offered by the women are lack of space in the ladies compartment, or carrying a child or escorting a senior citizen along. Our protests are met with expletives and often, with threats. Male commuters, suffering from a disability, are scared of reporting these women to authorities as they fear being slapped with a counter case,” she said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Government Railway Police (GRP) have kickstarted a campaign focusing on illegal travel in handicapped coaches from March 12 to 17. Offenders are booked under the RPWD Act, which only the GRP has powers to invoke. 
 
 
