AHMEDABAD: The   government has made it mandatory for students to submit the domicile certificate while seeking admissions to medical and paramedical courses in the state. 

 The government has clarified that admissions to medical, dental, ayurveda, homoeopathy and naturopathy courses will be based on the scores of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). Admissions to nursing and physiotherapy courses will be carried out on the basis of class XII marks.
 
 The state government on Tuesday finalized the rules for admissions. Barring the students whose parents have transferable jobs, all students seeking admission to medical and paramedical courses will have to submit their domicile certificate. The certificate is issued to those who have been residents of the state for a decade. There are 4,200 medical seats in the state.
 
 The state government has decided that admissions to medical and dental courses will be centralized even for the management and NRI quotas. The admission procedure will carried out online, as is the case with admission to engineering courses. Officials said that the government has made it clear that only the students who have cleared class X, XI, and XII science stream exams in Gujarat are eligible to apply for   in the state.
 
 The government has formed a committee to oversee admissions to medical, dental, ayurveda, homoeopathy, and naturopathy courses; another committee will oversee admissions to paramedical courses.
 
 The admissions will be processed by the GMERS office in  . The officials said that the decision to introduce the domicile-certificate proviso was taken after a group of parents met government officials and pressurized them to add that stipulation. The parents wanted only those who have studied in Gujarat to be eligible to apply for medical courses in the state. This was the practice earlier, but with all medical admissions being based on NEET scores now, the parents were pressing for eligibility based on domicile.
 
 
