Only three films of hers have hit the screens, out of which two were in Tamil, and one in Telugu, but   foresees a long career for herself. The dusky beauty, who realised that cinema is her calling at a young age, avers she is here to stay, and that she doesn’t want to be just another actress in the business. Quite determined and choosy,   considers herself lucky to have landed projects which belong to different genres. With four Tamil films in her kitty – Tik Tik Tik, Party, Thimiru Pudichavan and Jagajala Killadi — the actress, who is on the lookout for meaningful roles, gets candid about the characters she was offered, her   plans, casting couch, tryst with martial arts, and more, in this chat with us. 

 “I play a lieutenant in a defense space division. Being the first-of-its-kind space film in the country, it was quite a challenge working for the project,” she says excitedly, adding, “I’m a huge fan of Christopher Nolan’s films, and Interstellar is my favourite, among all. That’s one reason I did Tik Tik Tik. I’m eagerly awaiting its release; I’m pretty sure the response is going to be positive. I have put in a lot of physical effort — like doing abseiling and performing stunts using harness for eight hours on several days. It required a lot of stamina from my part. I used to watch the making of Hollywood film Gravity to get a better understanding of working in a space film. The only difference between Gravity and our film is that, the former had computer-generated scenes, while the latter is all about manual work.”
 
 Like every film of Venkat Prabhu, she asserts Party also is a fun-filled flick. She describes it as “a typical Venkat Prabhu film”. “The shooting was in Fiji, and we had a ball on set. Venkat sir is someone who knows how to handle complex situations. For example, the climax required around 10,000 people, but he managed with only 200. I play someone who is very chilled-out, a party-loving girl.”
 
 According to her, Jagajala Killadi with   has a lot of fun elements, too. Nivetha says she tried understanding the nuances of direction during the shooting of the film. “I think almost every artiste directed many scenes of the movie. There were instances when I felt the camera angle or something else should be altered, and I, too, was at the helm, with the permission of the director. I play a NRI girl who comes down to   and uses the character played by Vishnu Vishal to get certain things done,” she says.
 
 Thimiru Pudichavan, in which she is paired opposite Vijay Antony, is a project for which she believes she has given her best to. Out of the 65 days schedule for the entire film, she had to allot 50 days, which had her physically drained. She explains, “I play a cop — I realised how hard it is to be a cop — from standing in hot sun to taking care of the law and order — hats off to them. I would say playing this character made me complete. It is almost as if I’m manly as the hero himself, thanks to Vijay Antony sir. Not all heroes accept heroines who have equal screen space.”
 
 Nivetha says she is unapologetic about ‘no’ to filmmakers if she finds a project uninteresting, “When I listen to scripts, I imagine my character. I see whether I fit into it and if I have dates, I say ‘yes’ immediately. Even if I’m 99% convinced, I do not take up a project. Sometimes, if the narration isn’t interesting... Money factor is not that important for me now.”
 
 Having done a successful movie in Tollywood, does she have any Bollywood plans, too? “No,” pat comes the answer. “In fact, my brother has been asking me to give Hollywood a try. The audition for the next Avengers series is happening now. So, he was asking me why shouldn’t I give it a try. I never thought I would do seven films in Kollywood, so who knows? I have started the preparation and am going to New York in a few months,” says an elated Nivetha.
 
 Elaborating on her Hollywood plans, she says, “Here, in Tamil industry, people accept you the way you are. I have no idea what to expect from Hollywood nor do I have any strategy or concrete plans. But I have enrolled myself in some workshops and am working on different dialects. In addition to mental preparation, I am regularly into jogging, yoga and meditation. I am a martial artiste, too, though I don’t have time now to focus on it. People tell me I have a universal face — they have assumed I am a South American, some ask me if I hail from Brazil; others think I am Thai — so, I think I can pull off any role, thanks to my features”
 
 But then, Nivetha says she isn’t a very social person. “I think it’s absolutely fine,” she smiles, and adds, “Meeting someone on set is more of professional thing for me. I can’t have a conversation with someone just for the sake of it. I need to have something significant to discuss. I’m not into gossiping — it’s not just my thing. This is one reason I quit Twitter because I don’t want to waste time just like that. But I believe in maintaining a cordial relation with my co-workers and meet fans on set. I think face-to-face interaction is better than chatting with someone whom you don’t know.”
 
 A couple of her morphed pictures were doing the rounds on social media some time ago. There were reports of her taking legal action against the miscreants. Quiz her about it, and she says, “For the last one year, I have been coming across fake news and photos of mine. My friends alert me whenever they come across such things. I don’t know what does people achieve by tarnishing someone’s image, not that I have built a huge image, but I just don’t get it. Then I realised that these rumours and fake pictures come up whenever some update about one of my my projects surfaces.”
 
 What does she think of the casting couch episode which shocked the south film industry recently? “I haven’t faced any such thing and I have never heard of such practice from others, either. I’m not desperate for roles nor am I over-keen about acting with a particular star. I’m quite happy with what I get,” she 
 signs off.
 
 
