JAIPUR: In the election year, it remains a challenge for Jaipur Development Authority ( ) in the state capital to acquire   for five infrastructure and development projects as   have intensified their protest.

 The officials are in a quandary to apply force and remove these farmers from their land like they did during the time of taking possession for ring road project.
 
 The JDA has to take possession of land for the development of Ninder housing project, construction of Jhotwara elevated road and flyover and clover leaves of ring road project. The affected farmers and house owners are protesting against the JDA.
 
 Sources in the department said, looming elections may put the brakes on massive demolition drive planned by JDA for the construction of Jhotwara elevated road which is proposed between   at   and Ambabari Junction.
 
 “The process to finalise compensation for affected house owners has been stalled for long. After receiving a loan approval from the   (NCRPB), the JDA had resumed the process. But the proposal is under reconsideration again,” sources said.
 
 Similarly, fresh troubles are brewing for chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s ambitious Dravyavati river project as many farmers whose lands were allegedly acquired have intensifying their protest.
 
 These farmers alleged that more than 600 bighas of private land is acquired without providing compensation and BJP government has proposed to earn revenue after auctioning.
 
 Ashok Mehta, a member of Dravyavati Nadi Kisan Sangrash Samiti, said, “In the past 15 months, Tata firm on the directions of JDA, has destroyed the crop of farmers and demolished the structures, wells on the farm land without issuing the notices. The state government is encroaching our lands without providing compensation. Farmers will not allow the company to work on their land ,” he said.
 
 Many farmers whose land is proposed to be acquired for the greenfield airport project in Shivdaspura have threatened to stage a protest in state assembly , if their matter is not resolved soon. The district administration has to acquire 2,100.8 hectares land in 20 villages for the new airport.
 
 “The development of the area is stalled for past several years as the JDA has banned land conversions in these villages. If government want to construct the airport , it should expedite the process to provide compensation or the ban should be lifted as it’s affecting the growth of the area,” said Narendra Sharma, an affected farmer.
 
 
