BHOPAL: In their Bhopal smart city project push, authorities are overlooking flawed designs at as many as 22 city traffic intersections posing a risk to pedestrians. Engineering section officials said Integrated traffic management system (ITMS), a smart city project is nearing completion. Work on painting zebra crossings began at   on Monday.

 The ‘black and white’ zebra lines are being painted ‘red and white’. The paint material, which costs about Rs 2,000 per square feet has been imported from  . The paint is better than one used on cycle track at  , said a smart city representative at Roshanpura. He admitted that zebra lines design was flawed. “The islands of the intersection are not in a square. We are not mandated to intervene. For a best possible solution for pedestrian, it should be,” he said. In the first phase, about two dozen sites were selected for IMTS, which is expected to provide greater information to the authorities to proactively manage ongoing traffic situation, improve traffic discipline through effective enforcements and increase road safety by preventing accidents and allowing citizens to make informed travel choices.
 
 BSCDCL along with Bhopal traffic police have appointed an agency to set up priority initiatives identified under the Smart City mission, which will include traffic enforcement systems such as echallan, red light violations detection systems, speed violation detection system, variable message sign and information boards and traffic control room. However, the project has ruled out tackling flaws in design of these intersections that result in accidents.
 
 Fault lines in unplanned development of the state capital, are now hindering smart city project. Experts like MANIT professor and traffic expert   have been highlighting the need for transit-oriented development that adds to pedestrian safety. “Roshanpura intersection, like many others, are not in a perfect 90 degree shape. Repainting of zebra crossing is welcome as it was long overdue. However, improper rotaries need to be removed as they are a clear and present danger,” he said.
 
 Smart city spokesperson said the project would be functional in two months, making Bhopal one of the first cities in India to adopt IMTS. However, mounting of pedestrian switch signals and others technology to enhance safety are yet to be seen.
 
