LUDHIANA: Three days after Khanna police arrested one of the two main accused in the murder case of   alias Mindhi, brother of slain gangster Rupinder Gandhi, police are yet to arrest the “main conspirator” who had openly declared his role in the killing on Facebook. 

 Police have already brought Naresh Kumar alias Arjun, who is a sharp shooter and is member of Lawrence Bishnoi gang, on production warrant from Jodhpur Jail.
 
 On August 20 last year, two unidentified armed miscreants on a motorcycle had shot 40-year-old Mindhi, sarpanch of the village, at his fields in Rasoolra village. A day after the murder, Gurjot Garcha of Dhandari in Ludhiana district, who is presently in Canada, had posted a Facebook message claiming responsibility for the killing of Mindhi.
 
 Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP)   said they had already booked Garcha a day after the murder and started procedure for his extradition from Canada. “It is a long process, but he will be brought by Khanna police in the case,” he said.
 
 Police sources said it might not be easy for Khanna police to get Garcha from Canada as getting an accused extradited is not a easy job.
 
 Police said Arjun, during questioning, divulged that his friend and co-accused in the case, Rinda Sandhu of Taran Tarn, had been in jail with him and they were good friends. He added that though Arjun and Rinda might not have taken contract from Garcha for killing Mindhi, they could have done as they were friends.
 
 Police sources said after arresting Arjun, Khanna police were now looking for Rinda Sandhu, who along with him shot Mindhi dead. They added that Rinda was a dreaded gangster, who was also Ainvolved in many criminal cases but police has failed to arrest him for last about three years.
 
 Cops said the rival gangs had developed enmity against Mindhi as he was becoming popular among students. They added that police zeroed in on Arjun from his call details.
 
 Police officials said Arjun was arrested by Rajasthan Police after he had fired at a doctor in Rajasthan and was later housed in Jodhpur jail.
 
 
