One is a celebrated director whose boxoffice conquests can give contemporary filmmakers a run for their money and the other is one of the most sought-after actordirectors in the industry, who juggles filmmaking and acting with equal elan. But what distinguishes Nandita Roy and Churni Ganguly from the crowd is the fact that they wear their achievements nonchalantly on their shoulders. In a tellall mood, the duo sat for a freewheeling chat with us ahead of the release of Nandita Roy-Shiboprosad Mukherjee’s  . Excerpts: Nandita: I don’t think it’s difficult at all. If you have the grit and the determination to do something, you just get it done. I’ve had no problems whatsoever. A person blocking me from doing what I want just because I’m a woman is something that has never happened with me. Churni: I have never distinguished myself as a woman in the industry — I’m always a person. Even in my acting career, it has never really posed a hurdle. As a director, having worked all by myself, I have sometimes had reservations. Things like calling someone at night to get something done or to let your command be accepted — I’ve had problems exerting that power at times. N: I believe it’s been relatively easier because both of us started off working very late in our lives. It might have been difficult had we started in our teens. I directed my first film when I was 50. By then I knew how the industry worked. N: Not at all. C: Creative clashes are bound to happen, but didn’t in our case. I was there to deliver what Nanditadi and Shibu (Shiboprosad) expected of me as an actress and I did just that. It was absolutely smooth. Watching Shibu and Nanditadi work was the take-home for me. They are so organised — sometimes it’s difficult to believe everything is just so perfect on the sets. It makes you wonder if it’s really possible to be so much in sync. N: It still happens, but no longer bothers me! C: I think this importance is instilled in people’s minds. I remember when I directed  , people asked me how much Kaushik (Ganguly) had to help me. It was as if I couldn’t have possibly done it without his help. It was painful that I had to convince people that it was my work and not his. Such things upset me and make me wonder if it’s happening only because I’m a woman. N: It’s because you have a famous husband, Churni. People think you are living in reflected glory. It’s sad this is how society looks at us. C: I’m primarily an actor but there’s also a creative side to me that wants to tell a story. On the sets of  , not for once was I thinking as to how I would have made the film if I were making it. When I watch a film, I take things back with me but when I’m working in one, I’m an actor. I surrendered myself completely to Nanditadi and Shibu. Nandita, your films have always had strong female characters. Is it a conscious decision to write such parts? N: It isn’t. Being a woman, my natural inclination is to portray a strong woman on screen. It’s organic. C: A large part of society still thinks of women as ornamentations in films. It’s pathetic that they feel women have no active part to play in films. But if directors like Nanditadi and Shibu continue to make films with such strong characters, this notion will soon change. Their films always have a message. N: I have been wanting to work with her for very long. Besides, I couldn’t have thought of anyone else who could have done justice to this role. I asked Shibu to get Churni on board and there she was! He is great at convincing people. C: He makes a baby face! I could do with someone like that in my life. Someone who gets work done like magic. N: That’s why Shibu is my soulmate; a part of me. I remember   was shelved for a long time but I told Shibu, ‘I have one request. Just release this film for me’. I don’t know how he did it but it’s because of him that   released. It was miraculous. C: This is why you both make a fantastic team! C: I play an overtly concerned mother. Given the crimes against women in our country, it’s not easy being the mother of a girl child. The character is very relatable. N: Shibu comes up with a one-liner idea. He came up to me one day and said, ‘Let’s make a sequel to  . I started writing it in the pulse of a light-hearted comedy. While I was at it, an alleged sexual assault case at a Gurgaon school came to the fore. I realised the story won’t go anywhere if I don’t include a social message. It became my moral duty to tell a socially relevant story. That’s how I weaved the story. C: The subject was a winner from the word go. I was thinking of making a film on similar lines for long. So when Shibu narrated the story to me, I was willing to be a part of it. The subject felt very close to my heart. I believe, we as adults create the world that children live in. We create perspectives for them and we cannot fail them. The film puts across a point in a refined and subtle way. The beauty of the film lies in the fact that it sends out a strong message through sheer entertainment. N: I enjoyed making this film the most. I love the subject and the actors. Shooting   was like a picnic! As a director, I can do my work with honesty and hope the audience reciprocates with love. C: It’s an amazing film and the audience will love it. Years down the line, people will say, ‘School er oi chobi ta dekho’.