QUEPEM: Occupants of 30 flats of a residential-cum-commercial complex opposite the Quepem municipal market are protesting the digging of a pit for a wheel alignment shop, as the residents fear stability of the building due to the digging, and also the loss of open space.

 Residents of Anjelica Arcade co-operative housing society, led by chairman Mohamad Afzal  , have filed a complaint with the Quepem municipal council ( ), alleging that the pit is being dug illegally, which is facing the inside of the complex and this will effect the foundation of the building.
 
 “As per the plan approved by town and country planning (TCP) department, the builder had reserved space for a garden opposite the proposed shop. The   and municipality have now issued a trade licence to the builder to operate the wheel alignment business. Residents are parking their vehicles in this space. If the authorities issue permissions to operate the shop, we will block their access by developing the garden,” Shaikh said. 
 
 The approved plan also shows parking slots for residents, but there is no parking place available, according to residents. Alleging connivance of TCP and QMC officials, residents said that the shop will have a ramp and this will disrupt movement of their vehicles within the complex.
 
 The builder, Antonio Inacio Savio   said that he is in possession of approvals from both, TCP and QMC. Regarding the parking space for 30-odd flat owners, he said, “There was no provision for it 15 years ago.”
 
 Acting on the complaint and after repeated pleas to the chief officer and chairperson, QMC, on March 20, passed a resolution to cancel the trade licence and other permissions granted to the builder. But the builder went ahead with preparations to set up the wheel alignment shop. Shaikh said the builder illegally dug the pit on the foundation of the building. This will endanger the lives and property of the residents, he said.
 
 On Friday, residents demanded an immediate order be issued to cancel the trade licence. QMC chairperson   issued an order directing the builder to keep the entire work in abeyance till further orders. 
 
 “If any authority revokes my licence then I will approach higher courts,” Gomes told TOI.
 
 
