LUCKNOW: The IAS-IPS turf war in Uttar Pradesh took a curious turn on Friday evening when   DM shot a letter to the district police chief, expressing his reservations over appointment of seven SHOs without his due approval as desired by the government. 

 
 The letter comes a day after the central   tweeted an appeal to chief minister   urging him to withdraw the recent directives from the home department which reiterated that district police chiefs should seek written approval of the district magistrates to transfer and post station officers. 
 
 
 
 
 The tweet said that such government directives showed disregard towards the post of   (district police chiefs) and would demoralise the police.
 
 In his letter, DM Brajesh Narain Singh has referred to a circular issued by principal secretary (home) dated May 9 in which it was stated that transfer or posting of any police station in charge by the district police chief must be done after written approval of the district magistrate as per the provisions of section 6 and 524 of the Police Regulation Act.
 
 
 The DM was apparently irked over the fact that   SSP Ajay Pal posted in charge of 7 police stations and sent a letter for his approval much after they had joined and media was formally informed about the reshuffle that took place on Friday evening. DM Brajesh Narain, talking to TOI, confirmed that he had sent the letter to the police chief. SSP Ajay Pal, however, remained inaccessible.
 
 Addressed to the SSP, the DM’s letter reads: “We have had a talk regarding this issue when we met at the university on May 10 when I had said that you are the district police chief and any such proposal sent in common interest will be approved by me, but implementing the directions of the government is not only in common interest but public interest as well,” the letter reads.
 
 The letter also states that the posting of officers at the police stations without his due written approval was not only in contravention to the government’s directives but also sent a wrong message not only in the administration but the people as well. “In such a situation, I am compelled to return this proposal unapproved as my consent, now, has no meaning,” Nairan’s letter states with a caution that next time such transfers and posting should be duly approved by him.
 
 This is not the first time that the two elite services are face to face over the issue of exercising their powers. In December 2017, a somewhat similar situation arose after chief secretary Rajive Kumar issued a letter directing district magistrates to chair law and order meetings at Police Lines. The letter saw a quick rejoinder from the then DGP Sulkhan Singh, opposing the move. It was only after the issue flared-up on social media that the chief minister’s office intervened and the matter was settled.
 
 
 
