NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Saturday told the Congress-JD(S) combine that the convention of the seniormost MLA being named the   had no legal force and pointed to past instances to reject the challenge to K G Bopaiah’s appointment as pro tem speaker in the Karnataka assembly.

 Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Congress-JD(S) alliance, started with an apology to the bench of Justices A K Sikri, S A Bobde and Ashok Bhushan for causing discomfort by forcing an urgent hearing on a holiday. Sibal, also a Congress leader, said   was unsuited to be the pro tem speaker on two counts — one, he was not the seniormost MLA, who by convention was appointed to the post, and two, he was indicted by the SC for irregularly disqualifying some MLAs who had revolted against B S   during his earlier tenure as CM.
 
 Justice Bobde recounted how Balasaheb Vikhe Patil, despite not being the seniormost MP, was appointed pro tem speaker in 2004 (when UPA came to power). Sis Ram Ola was the seniormost member in Lok Sabha at the time. “Please check this, I don’t want to contradict you,” Justice Bobde told Sibal.
 
 Yeddyurappa’s counsel Mukul Rohatgi cited the 2005 Jharkhand instance where Pradeep Balmuchu was appointed pro tem speaker ahead of seniormost MLA Inder Singh Namdhari and how the UPA was allowed to disrupt proceedings in the face of imminent defeat in the House. Sibal admitted that it was not mandatory that the seniormost member be named pro tem speaker. “But we have a problem with Bopaiah as he has been indicted by the SC and we fear something similar may happen,” he said.
 
 The bench said, “...You want us to consider the bona fide and suitability of Bopiah as pro tem speaker and give a ruling on that? If that is so, then we must defer the floor test, issue notice to Bopaiah, hear him and then give a finding on the issue raised by you.”
 
 The possibility of the floor test being deferred forced Sibal and A M Singhvi to push the panic button. Sibal said the issue could be solved by the SC ordering that the pro tem speaker would only administer oath to MLAs and oversee election of the Speaker and not take up the floor test.
 
 The bench said, “This will be contrary to the order passed at your behest on Friday that the pro tem speaker will conduct the floor test at 4 pm on Saturday. If you want a review of that order, then we will hear you and postpone the vote on confidence motion. The issue got resolved when additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the Speaker had ordered live telecast of House proceedings. The bench said “nothing can be more transparent and fair than this”. However, House proceedings have been telecast live for the last few years.
 
