CHANDIGARH: No considerable gap between the exams of some of the major papers in all the streams have raised the anxiety levels of Class XII   board students and teachers. Worried, a number of parents from the Tricity have written to the CBSE board requesting to revise the examination time table.

 TOI has copies of many such emails.
 
 With negligible gaps between two major papers, the students to be affected most are those who belong to the humanities and non-medical streams in Class XII. The teachers are worried about the students’ performance in the XIIth board exam as the students will get very little time for preparation before their physics and web technology technology exams. Moreover, there is absolutely no gap between psychology and political science, physical education and sociology, legal studies and psychology, with the exams of each of the pairs falling on consecutive dates. Also, the non-medical students will have a tough time with Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) (mains) scheduled a day before their physical education paper.
 
 It was on Wednesday night that CBSE released the datesheet for Class X and XII students, which became the only topic of discussion in all the city-based CBSE affiliated schools on Thursday.
 
 Senior principal of   in Sector 27 Vineeta   said, “The datesheet for humanities student is very bad this time. There is very less gap between physics and english.”
 
 There is a lot of resentment among the parents of children having humanities. “It is difficult to understand that how CBSE could list main combination subjects back to back without breaks. Students do not even have 18 hours to revise 18 subjects. They should know how important this exam is and how tough the competition is with cut offs going up every year,” said  , a parent.
 
 Varkha Bajaj, another parent, said, “The datesheet is shocking. In all the streams, students have enough time for preparation in between but in humanities, the time is so little. It is a serious matter.”
 
 “I had been eagerly waiting or the datesheet. Now, it has come as a major disappointment. It has left me confused about what to study first and what to leave for the end days,” said Ashima Malhotra, a class XII humanities student.
 
 Teachers shared similar disappointment. “They have not given preparatory holidays between even the major subjects in class XII. They used to do this for one or two subjects previously. But, this time they have utterly disappointed us as they have done this for many subjects and that too for major combinations,” said city-based physics teacher Gurinder Pal Singh.
 
 For non-medical students, the main concern is the JEE (mains) followed by the physical education exam. There is also not much time between English and physics paper. “Before JEE, my entire focus would be on it. But, on the other hand, physical education is also important as it is very scoring. There should have been some gap at least,” said another student.
 
 For class X, the datesheet was said to be fine. “The class X students have got enough days in between for preparation. So, it is a good datesheet for them,” said  , principal of Hall Mark Public School, Panchkula.
 
 
 
