THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The police department, on Tuesday, issued a statement defending itself after criticisms arose over the laxity shown during the investigation to locate missing Latvian tourist  , whose decomposed body was found in a small wooded area near   on Friday. 

 In its statement, police gave a timeline, listing events of the day she went missing to show that the police did not delay the search process. The statement said that though she went missing around 7.30am, Liga's sister reported the incident to the police only in the evening. Immediately, a case was registered and wireless messages were passed on to teams. Two teams led by sub-inspectors combed the beach region till 3am in the morning. Inquiries were conducted at as many as 20 hotels to locate her.
 
 On March 15, a special investigation team was formed under Attingal deputy SP with rural shadow wing. On March 19, the city commissioner was made the team leader. Four days later, IG Manoj Abraham took over the investigation, expanding search operations to outside Kerala.
 
 In the meantime, the state government brought expert divers from the Navy to conduct underwater searches in a bid to locate her body. Till date, police have questioned 375 persons and searched 245 hotels in connection with the investigation.
 
 The statement said that police had treated Liga's family with utmost respect and the department had even appointed a deputy SP in the state police chief's team to act as victim liaison officer.
 
 Meanwhile, the police probe into her death is yet to make headway as police are awaiting the autopsy report, DNA test and results of the test on internal organs from the chemical examiner's lab.
 
 Commissioner P Prakash said that several persons were questioned in connection with the case. The probe is currently focussed on the people at Kovalam and Panathura regions, where Liga was last spotted alive and found dead respectively.
 
 IG Manoj Abraham convened the meeting of the investigating officers on Tuesday to review the progress of the probe.
 
 
