NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind   and his deputy,  , who is also in charge of the party’s   affairs, held an over two-hour-long meeting with AAP MLAs from the state over the CM’s apology to Shiromani Akali Dal leader Bikram Singh Majithia that has sparked unrest in the party. The meeting was also attended by five zonal presidents of the party in Punjab.

 However, leader of opposition in Punjab, Sukhpal Singh Khaira, and nine other AAP MLAs weren’t present. There was no confirmation on the fate of the resignations of Punjab unit president Bhagwant Mann and co-president Aman Arora either, but they were unlikely to be accepted by the party’s central leadership. Emerging from the meeting, the 10 Punjab MLAs paraded their “unity” before the media and dismissed the possibility of a split.
 
 At the meeting, sources said, the MLAs were told that Kejriwal was under a “huge burden” of 33 defamation cases lodged against him in 22 states and the apology was aimed at ending the legal battle in Punjab. The MLAs, who were peeved at not being not consulted before the apology, appeared satisfied with the assurances. The MLAs are learnt to have put the onus of taking action against any politician accused of patronising drug trade on Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. They insisted that there was no split in the party and things had changed after Kejriwal shared his view with them.
 
 Talking to reporters after the meeting, AAP MLAs Baljinder Kaur (Talwandi Sabo) and Kultar Singh (Kotkapura) said they understood Kejriwal’s decision despite their initial disappointment. “It was a strategic decision and we understand it,” Kaur said. Sources said Kejriwal had asked the MLAs to keep up the fight against the drug mafia in the state. A few MLAs, however, conceded that Kejriwal’s apology had “put them and the entire Punjab unit in a very tight spot and it will not be easy for them to convince the people about the party’s commitment to fight the drug mafia”.
 
 “The apology certainly hurt the MLAs and volunteers, but at the meeting, we learnt about the huge burden of defamation cases against Kejriwal. All the 33 cases have been put on fast track. The powers that be want to put Kejriwal in jail to ruin his political career. We will not allow this to happen. The party is in touch with the other 10 MLAs and they will also come for a meeting,” MLA Aman Arora, who had resigned from the post of Punjab co-convener,said. 
 
 Arora said the party leadership was reaching out to Khaira and Mann as well. He, however, refused to withdraw his own resignation tendered on the issue.
 
 Sources said the MLAs were asked to individually talk to the media to dispel “rumours” of a split. Sources said some of the 10 MLAs who skipped the meeting were close to Khaira. “I will talk to my colleagues before taking a decision about meeting Kejriwal,” Khaira told TOI over the phone. A meeting of the MLAs is likely in Chandigarh on Monday where the MLAs have been asked to explain the situation to volunteers.
 
 “The other 10 MLAs could not come for the meeting today because of some reasons. They will also come for a meeting in a couple of days, Manish has spoken to them,” Arora told reporters outside Manish Sisodia’s residence where the meeting was held. 
 
 
 
 
 
