Vijayawada: The   rush between Vijayawada and Hyderabad has been unprecedented this year. 

 South Central Railway, in January, is running some 37 special trains from various destinations to Hyderabad city, passing through Vijayawada. In the other direction, some 35 special trains from Hyderabad city pass through Vijayawada to various destinations. This notwithstanding, the number of passengers on the wait list is running into 350 some cases. 
 
 The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is running special buses, and all of them are running with full seating capacity. In both the cases, officials admit they did not anticipate such a rush this year. 
 
 Railway officials said most of the passenger rush was from Hyderabad to Vijayawada. This is followed by passengers going toward Vizag and Godavari districts. Then there passengers, mostly pilgrims, heading for Tirupati. 
 
 Divisional railway manager, R Dhananjayulu, told TOI that most passengers are coming from Hyderabad and coastal Andhra Pradesh districts to Vijayawada. “We have made elaborate arrangements at the station by providing additional ticket counters, and deployed extra staff to clear the rush.” 
 
 When asked about the infrastructural limitations, Dhananjayulu said the railways has deployed special duty staff to manage platform timings to ensure there is no delay compared to previous years. He said that this is the first time they are taking this initiative, after studying the issues that arose during previous Sankranti seasons. On the other hand, the APSRTC, too, has deployed special buses and additional staff.
 
 “We have provided 24X7 drinking water supply, and deployed Swachh staff to ensure cleanliness. Special buses from Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) are also helping passengers,” P Rama Rao, regional manager of APSRTC, told TOI. 
 
 Officials said they have provided transportation to more number of passengers this year, but even that is inadequate. Railway Police Force has been deployed across the station, to help missing children, people, and curb loss of property.
 
 
