NAGPUR: On a day of fluctuating fortunes,   men flattered only to deceive against an experienced Services side while their women cruised along to their third victory on the trot as on Day 5 of the 68th Senior at the   in Chennai on Sunday.

 
 Maharashtra may have been guilty of employing a wrong strategy vis-à-vis their man-to-man marking and substitutions as they failed to give a fight against the experienced bunch of hoopsters from the Armed forces. Services, the former national champions scored a ton and posted a facile 31-point (100-69) victory in the knockout game to qualify for the upper pool.
 
 While Maharashtra men couldn’t stop a coup de grace, there were no such problem for their women’s team as they drubbed last years’ runners-up Telangana by 41-points winning 76-35.
 
 In their last league game, Maharashtra women played perfectly with the plan and after taking a handy six-point (18-12) lead in the first quarter they utilized their bench to the fullest. A dominant second period (14-2), gave Maharashtra an 18-point advantage at the lemon break.
 
 After the change of ends, Maharashtra displayed more hunger to score and stretched the lead further to 28 points by winning the third period 27-17. They sealed Telangana’s fate with yet another dominating display in the final frame (17-4).
 
 All the 12 Maharashtra players recorded their names on the points section of the score sheet with Mumbai North post guard   (15) emerging as the top scorer. Dhule’s shooting guard Karina Suryawanshi contributed 12 points while Nagpur’s lanky post guard Mugdha Amraotkar chipped in with 11 points in her 12-minute stay on the court.
 
 With this easy win, Maharashtra finished second in the group and will now face the challenge of speedsters from   in the quarterfinals on Monday.
 
 The lop-sided men’s qualifying game saw a game-high 25-point effort from Maharashtra’s Aaron Monterio go in vain. Making most of their inside-out shooting Services started the game on a positive note and claimed the initial two quarters 25-13 and 29-15 to take a decisive 26-point half time lead. Services won the third period 30-22 to stretch their lead further while Maharashtra claimed the last period 19-16 but fell short by as many as 31 points. 
 Nikhil (23) and Jairam Jatt (19) did the bulk of scoring for the winners.
 
