PANAJI: The   party on Friday met governor   and submitted a memorandum demanding the dismissal of the Manohar Parrikar-led coalition government and staked claim to form the government, leader of the opposition Chandrakant Kavlekar said.

 “Ours is the single largest party with 16 MLAs in the 40-member House and the governor told us that she will study the memorandum and revert,” Kavlekar told reporters, adding that they have given a seven-day deadline.
 
 “We told the governor that she has an opportunity to rectify her mistake of inviting BJP to form the government,” Kavlekar said. 
 
 The leader of the opposition said the Karnataka governor invited the single largest party to form the government there, and hence the Congress wanted the Goa governor to apply the same rule here. “We have given the governor seven days to give her decision,” he said.
 
  president Girish Chodankar said the party is confident of the governor inviting them to form the government. 
 
 Asked who will be the party’s chief ministerial candidate, Chodankar said this would be decided in consultation with coalition partners. Asked whether the governor has admitted her “mistake”, Chodankar said, “Looking at her body language we felt that she was feeling guilty.” “We are fighting for our cause and the Karnataka governor has justified our cause. Both the governors cannot be wrong,” he said.
 
 All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and Goa desk in-charge A Chella Kumar said the party has the numbers to prove the majority on the floor of the House, but the governor should dismiss the present government first. Asked whether Congress is willing to give the chief minister’s post to a coalition partner, he said, “We will explore all possibilities once the government is dismissed,” Chella Kumar said.
 
 Former   MP and former GPCC president Shantaram Naik said, “The governor said if you (Congress) think that I have committed a mistake then should I again commit a mistake.”
 
 “In the recently concluded elections, despite the Indian National Congress and Janata Dal (Secular), which has more than the required number, staked claim to form the government, the governor of Karnataka has invited BJP to form the government apparently on the precedent that the single largest party is required to be invited to form the government,” the Congress memorandum stated.
 
 “This shows that the decision taken in 2017 in Goa was patently wrong,” it stated further.
 
 
