GURUGRAM: In a development that is likely to jeopardise MCG’s takeover of   1, Ansal API Limited has refused to pay the Rs 92 crore that DTCP has demanded for maintenance and infrastructure upgrade necessary before takeover, based on a detailed project report (DPR) prepared by the agency MCG hired for the purpose. The developer has objected to the fact that MCG wants them to pay maintenance for five years, from 2018 to 2022, when it has handed over occupation to owners in tranches for several decades, and even maintenance to the RWA three years ago. 

 The problem has its origins in the fact that DTCP is yet to deliver a completion certificate for the entire township to Ansals, preferring to give it part-completion certificates for each society within as it got finished. 
 
 Ansal’s reply to DTCP’s notice (which was accessed by TOI), states, “Any decision taken by the government ignoring legal and legitimate interests of Ansal API, and any physical or financial liability forcibly thrust upon us beyond the scope as prescribed under Haryana Regulation of Urban Areas Act 1975, will not be acceptable.” 
 
 It further mentions the developer has the right to contest any such “wrong, injudicious decisions at appropriate executive or judicial forum”. 
 
 A senior government official told TOI, “The developer has reverted to DTCP’s notice. A hearing on the issue is scheduled soon.”
 
 As per norms, the developer is responsible for the upkeep of a residential colony for five years after obtaining a completion certificate. MCG’s estimates are based on the assumption that since the developer never obtained full completion certificates, it is liable to pay up for five more years of operation and maintenance costs. 
 
 The developer has contested this, saying they had applied for completion certificates several times in the past, which were neither accepted nor rejected for “reasons best known to DTCP”. “We’ve not been granted final completion certificates for reasons best known to the directorate. As we’ve been denied the same till now, we undertook maintenance and upkeep of the colony ourselves, till about three years ago, when it was handed over to the RWA,” stated the letter.
 
 In a scathing response to government agencies, the developer has also said neither DTCP nor   — which is also party to the granting of completion certificates — has ever written to them, nor brought to their notice any defects or deficiencies in the development works it has completed.
 
 DTCP director T L Satyaprakash said, “We’d issued a notice to the developer for the takeover, and they have responded with their objections. We’ll hear both parties and take a decision after following due procedure.” MCG commissioner   said, “It’s a matter concerning DTCP, and I wouldn’t want to comment on it.”
 
 A spokespersons of Ansal API confirmed the points raised, and said, “We’ve received part-completion certificates for large parts of the colony, meaning the developer has completed all services as per service estimates and specifications.”
 
 
