A B Biju, who runs an educational institute in Kannur, is the sixth of the seven children in his family. 

 While he was still a kid, Biju was used to seeing his two elder sisters comfortably breastfeeding their babies, without anyone asking them to hide their breasts while in public. However, years later, when his own baby girl was born two weeks ago, Biju and his wife   had to face something they never saw coming — a flurry of advice on why Amritha should not breastfeed in the open. The “atrocious” reasons ranged from ‘it will cause the milk to dry up’ to ‘it’s indecent,’ he says.
 
 Aghast at the attitude and moral policing, the couple decided to react in their own way. A week ago, Biju posted a photo of Amritha breastfeeding their baby, on his social media page and in no time, it went viral. “As expected, the online Malayali aangalamaar (brothers) came up with their shocked reactions and advice, but many were supportive. Basically, I wanted to do my bit to wipe out the stigma associated with this natural process,” he says.
 How did Amritha look at it? “She does not find it anything out of the ordinary. Even yesterday, when she was at the hospital feeding the baby, many women looked uncomfortable by the act, though she didn’t let that affect her feeding our baby girl,” Biju says.
 When is it that Kerala became so narrow-minded about breastfeeding in public? Does it have anything to do with the attitudinal shifts of the modern times? And how can we wipe out this stigma? KT probes:
 
 
 
 Actress Kasthuri, whose photos of breastfeeding her baby had gone viral online sometime ago, says, “It’s funny that in a State like Kerala, where women were topless for the longest time, it’s a matter of shame now. I would say clothes for the upper body are a creation of Christian missionaries and the unnecessary sexual connotation for breasts is a new concept.”
 
 Dr Leela P U, Malayalam faculty of St Teresa’s College, talks about how Malayalam literary works are proof enough that breasts and breastfeeding weren’t always considered ‘indecent’. “In the works of those like P Kesavadev, Devaki Nilayangode and Vaikkom Muhammad Basheer, we often see random references of breastfeeding women as if it was no big deal, whether in the open or not. We can see in our old films too that it was never looked at with a sexual connotation,” she says.
 
 In fact, breasts being exposed were never a problem in the State in the past, she says. “Take the simple example of women who were working on our fields — they wore whatever minimal upper garment and had to bent down, to do the whole work. Similarly, the mundu they wore from the waist down was often raised up much above the thighs and kept wrapped, while standing in the fields to work. It’s now that even young women are expected to watch their cleavage when they bend or cover up those exposed areas while wearing saris. Our dressing style, historically, wasn’t so rigid or conservative and similar was our attitude towards breastfeeding.”
 
 
 
 For many modern women, the reason for searching a ‘place to hide’ to breastfeed is that someone might take their photo and misuse it on social media.
 Anna James, mother of two from Kochi, says, “I feel that open breastfeeding is something that vanished from our society just like the nostalgic ‘kulikkadavu’. Just as the joy of taking a bath with all the fun in the company of other women is lost, the freedom to breastfeed anywhere in public vanished due to the camera phones and the moral policing. How can you counter both of these now, especially when a baby is crying its lungs out? You would rather hide!”
 Many say that it’s in the late 80s and 90s that a sense of unnecessary shame was attached to breastfeeding in public. “Globalisation, more exposure to Western or Middle Eastern moralities and their influence are all reasons for the change in attitude,” explains Dr Leela. 
 
 The best way to counter the unnecessary stigma as Kasthuri points out is to prioritise the baby over anything else. “Be it in a bus or road or the Parliament House, I say mothers should just think about the child and its need to be fed. They shouldn’t wait to get a private room or bathroom – it is not a sin or something to be ashamed of. Your duty is towards the baby that’s depending on you, not the onlooker who might or might not develop nasty thoughts around this natural act,” she says.
 
 Covering the baby while feeding can make it difficult for the baby too, says Amritha, the mother in the viral photograph.
 “I understand the concerns on getting a photo misused but if so, women have to fear cameras everywhere, from hospitals to feeding rooms, and it’s meaningless if we deny our babies milk out of fear. Hiding the baby with a garment also makes it difficult for the little one to have the milk, as the breathing becomes strenuous,” she says. “When many termed my photo and action vulgar, I brushed it off, believing in the cause. I believe all moms should embrace that attitude and only that can bring about a change.”
 
