AMRITSAR: The state government announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of 27 Punjabis killed by the Islamic State militants in Mosul city of Iraq in June 2014. The government also announced a job each to one family member of the victims.

 While talking to media persons, state cabinet minister Navjot Singh, who had arrived at Sri Guru Ram Das International Airport to receive the mortal remains of the 38 Indians on behalf of the   government, said, “Punjab government will give Rs 5 lakh per family and a job to one member of the family as per their qualifications. Chief minister Amarinder Singh had made the announcement on the floor of House that Punjab government would ensure their complete rehabilitation.”
 
  informed that the state government had already been giving Rs 20,000 monthly pension to these families which would continue till a job was given to the deserving family member. “Baap ke kandho par bete ka janaaza, iss se bada bojh koi nai hai (there is nothing more burdensome than a father carrying the coffin of a son),” he said, adding that both Punjab and the   government would bear the burden together.
 
 “The decision to announce the reward and a government job for the kin of victims has been taken under the leadership of chief minister Amarinder Singh. Our government is committed to public welfare and has been striving to provide them every possible help. I have already reiterated that this is not the issue on which anyone should be indulging in politics, but the manner in which the Union government has handled the issue only shows the callousness of the government towards the victims and their families,” the local bodies and tourism minister said. 
 
 About the unscrupulous travel agents, who fraudulently send Punjab’s youth abroad, Sidhu said they were fleecing the people for few lakh rupees. “These persons (foreign job seekers) are not only exploited by the travel agents here in India but also abroad. When they go there, they get meagre wages and many a times their whereabouts are not know for a long time,” he said.
 
 “We should prevent and prepare, rather than repent and repair,” he added.
 
 Union minister of state for external affairs Gen V K Singh (retd) advised that no one should go abroad through illegal travel agents. “I should have not said it, but our 40 persons had no record in any of the embassy. They had gone through illegal travel agents and most of the time no one knows for a along time where they had gone. These Indians wouldn’t have any insurance cover. We have advised every state to take action against such illegal agents,” he said.
 
 Sidhu said they would discuss the issue of unscrupulous travel agents in the assembly as well as with the Centre. “We will take a major step and make the travel agents answerable, as they can’t be allowed to take benefit of someones helplessness,” said Sidhu. He said since the incident of the killing of 39 Indians happened on a foreign soil CM Amarinder had asked him to convey to Gen Singh to give adequate ex gratia amount to the victims’ family members.
 
 
