NEW DELHI:   opened their account in the   season eleven as they beat   by four wickets at the M   in Bengaluru on Friday. 

 
 It was another tight contest as RCB completed their chase of 156 runs in 19.3 overs with four wickets remaining. The run chase was anchored by two South African batsmen,   (57) and Quinton de Kock (45) as they added 54 runs for the third wicket.
 
 
 
 De Villiers hit four sixes and two fours in his 40-ball innings and also put on a valuable 59 runs for the fifth wicket with Mandeep Singh (22 off 19 balls). For KXIP, captain   (2/30) bagged two wickets while Axar Patel (1/25), Andrew Tye (1/27) and Mujeeb Ur Rahman (1/29) chipped in with wicket apiece.
 
 RCB run chase though started on a wrong note losing Brendon McCullum in the second ball of the innings to Axar. While trying an aerial shot, McCullum hit it straight to Mujeeb at point.   immediately took charge of the chase with a four in the first ball he faced. Kohli and de Kock kept the scoreboard ticking by hitting boundaries regularly and took RCB to 32/1 after four overs.
 
 Kohli was in good touch but failed to read a delivery from teenage Afghanistan spinner Mujeeb and was castled in the fifth over after hitting four boundaries for a 16-ball 21 runs knock.
 
 De Kock and de Villiers then revived the RCB chase as they added 54 runs for the third wicket. They welcomed pacer Mohit Sharma by scoring 16 runs in the eighth over and took RCB to 79/2 at the halfway mark. 
 
 De Kock, 45 off 34 balls which included a six and seven fours, was looking quite menacing when Ashwin clean bowled him in the 12th over. Ashwin then removed Sarfaraz Khan with the next ball to reduce RCB to 87/4 in 11.3 overs.
 
 After that the boundaries dried up for the hosts, but de Villiers kept them in the hunt by rotating the strike with Mandeep. Only one boundary was scored between 11-16 overs as RCB needed 41 off the final four overs. 
 
 De Villiers broke the shackles by hitting Mujeeb for back-to-back sixes in the 17th over as he changed the equation to 22 off three overs. De Villiers then smacked Mohit for a six to reach his fifty off 36 balls, but failed to take the team home as he fell to Tye in the penultimate over. But by then RCB needed just 10 more off 11 balls. 
 
 Earleir, pacer   rocked the KXIP innings with a three-wicket burst in an over as RCB bowled out the visitors for 155.
 
 Put into bat, KXIP were reduced to 36 for 3 in the fourth over after Umesh (3/23) dismissed Mayank Aggarwal (15), Aaron Finch (0) and Yuvraj Singh (4) in the space of six balls in his second over. Agarwal edged one to wicketkeeper de Kock before Finch was trapped LBW in the next delivery. Yuvraj was out in the final ball of that over.
 
 Umesh's pace colleague Kulwant Khejroliya and Chris Woakes and off-spinner   then took over in the later part of the KXIP innings with two wicket apiece as the visiting side could not even complete their allotted 20-over quota as they were all out in 19.2 overs.
 
 For KXIP, only KL Rahul put up some resistance as he hit 47 off just 30 balls at the top of the order with the help of two fours and four sixes. Ashwin contributed 33 off 21 balls while Karun Nair made 29.
 
 The visiting side had two periods of batting collapse -- one at the start when Umesh grabbed three quick wickets and the other after Rahul was out in the 12th over.
 
 The KXIP innings, however, began with a bang with Rahul taking 16 runs from the opening over bowled by Woakes whom he hit for a four and two sixes. Rahul's aggression kept the run rate high despite losing wickets as KXIP reached 84 for 3 at the halfway mark. But just as he was settling down with Nair and nearing his half century, Rahul fell to Sundar as he top-edged while trying for a slog-sweep.
 
 Nair did not survive long as he fell to Khejroliya in the 13th over leaving KXIP to 102 for 5 at that stage. Stoinis (11) became Sundar's second victim in the next over before Axar Patel (2) was trapped lbw by Khejroliya for just two runs in the 15th over.
 
 At the end of 15th over, KXIP were 122 for 7 and they could add 33 more runs at the expense of three wickets thanks to Ashiwn's 21-ball 33 which was laced with three fours and a six.
 
 
 
 
