KALABURAGI: After failing to bring Goa to the negotiating table on the   water dispute,   national president Amit Shah on Monday slipped into damage control role by making a fresh promise on the decades-old dispute: the party will work towards resolving the long-pending water dispute if they are voted to power in the 2018 assembly elections in Karnataka.

 “I assure the people of Karnataka that we will find a solution soon after coming to power in the state as it is easier to deal with such a sensitive issue when the same parties are at the helm,” Shah told reporters, wrapping up his two-day campaign to the   region.
 
 If the BJP is voted to power, Shah said there should be a favourable political atmosphere because the Siddaramaiah-led   government had not been taking a pro-active approach to resolve the issue. “They want the issue to remain alive for political gain,” he added.
 
 On the ongoing agitation of tur growers in Hyderabad-Karnatak area, who want the Centre to place a ceiling on procurement of tur, Shah said the Union government has purchased 25.67lakh quintals of tur with support price till now, but the Karnataka government has purchased only 1lakh quintals.
 
 “Both the Union and state governments have equal responsibility in the interest of farmers. Many BJP-ruled states, including   and Uttar Pradesh, have procured foodgrains from their own resource and later claimed reimbursement from the Centre. Karnataka should follow suit instead of playing the blame game,” he added.
 
 On the controversial statements of Union minister Anantkumar Hegde on minority and Dalit communities, Shah said it is certainly not the BJP’s stand. Asked whether the party would initiate action against him, Shah said the party would discuss the matter.
 
 Playing down the rift between BJP chief B S Yeddyurappa and senior leader K S Eshwarappa over a ticket to the latter, Shah said: “The party will decide on that. Mediapersons need not worry about such things.”
 
 Continuing his attack on Siddaramaiah’s government in the state, he earlier said the Karnataka government has “completely failed” in the past five years with respect to law and order, and has become synonymous with corruption.
 
 
 
 Amit Shah hit out at the Congress government for celebrating Tipu Jayanti and Bahamani Divas instead of focusing on developing the backward regions in the state. “They (Congress) don’t do anything, but just chant Tipu Sultan, Tipu Sultan, Tipu Sultan...Now they are even talking about celebrating Bahamani Samrajya (Bahamani Sultanate)…I don’t know what has happened to them,” Shah said.
 
 He also took a dig at veteran Congress leaders from the region, including   and late N Dharam Singh. “The two leaders did little for the welfare of the region, despite getting elected several times. They did nothing other than promote their sons (in politics),” he alleged. He also claimed that the OBCs will teach Siddaramaiah a lesson for his party’s stand on the proposed bill on reservation.
 
 
