NEW DELHI:   may have received the largest share of the budget at 26%, but allocations have not been specified. 

 Deputy chief minister   announced in his budget speech that CCTVs would be installed at all government schools by next January at a cost of Rs 175 crore. “About 150-200 cameras will be installed in each school building,” he said, adding that the projects would allow parents to see   activities live. Sisodia also said that tablets would be given to teachers, and that new language and English academies would be set up. But for most projects, the minister didn’t specify the allocation. Also, the number of new projects would be fewer in primary education, but higher education and sports have seen a greater push. 
 
  
 Sisodia spoke about making Delhi an educational hub, ‘Mission Buniyad’ and empowering school management committees by allotting Rs 5 lakh each. 
 
 But experts said they couldn’t gauge the impact of the budget since so little information was provided. “It’s not possible to assess the budget without having figures of the number of children or the specific allocations for learning enhancement initiatives,” said Professor Janaki Rajan of Jamia Millia Islamia and former SCERT director. “Infrastructure development, allocation for sports etc also have limited meaning if we do not know how many children will benefit,” she added.
 
 Even when talking about his pet project of Happiness Curriculum, Sisodia failed to fix a cost to introduce an “activity-based” curriculum. The government has also planned to construct 12,478 new classrooms, though the allocation for this wasn’t specified. 
 
 What he did announce was self-defence classes for government school girls at a cost of Rs 10 crore, and DCPCR rating the schools at a cost of Rs 15 crore. NDA candidates would be given Rs 2,000 per month during their training. Under the ‘Mission Excellence’ and ‘Play and Progress’ schemes, Rs 35 crore has been allocated while another Rs 20 crore has been allocated to sports in mohallas and colonies. 
 
 Expansion of DTU and NSIT under phase II has been planned, while the phase II campus of Indraprastha Institute of Information Technology is expected to be over by the month-end. The government also wants to start 25 new world class skill centres at a cost of Rs 315 crore.
 
 
