HYDERABAD: This is a story of the victory of love that overcomes insurmountable odds and blurs religious barriers. After his Muslim wife was whisked away by his inlaws and forcibly detained, a 24-year-old Hindu man knocked every door of police for justice. When the trail of trauma continued,   finally moved high court for redressal.

 
 On Tuesday, the courtroom resonated with joy after the police rescued the girl from her house and produced her in court. Despite tremendous home pressure, the girl, Noushin Begum, stood up and told court she was an adult, was married to Ratnakar and wanted to be with her husband. After the hearing, the couple walked out of court hand in hand.
  
  
 
 This inter-faith love story began in 2017 when Ratnakar Goud, a resident of Dilsukhnagar, fell in love with his now 19-year-old Muslim woman colleague Noushin Begum working in the same office.
 
 The girl eloped and got married to Ratnakar in Arya Samaj tradition in May 2017. Knowing about this, girl’s parents lodged a case against Ratnakar in Malakpet police station, alleging the girl was still a minor. Ratnakar was arrested. Later, he came out on bail, but the girl was taken back by her parents. 
  
 
 Noushin had been sending distress messages to Ratnakar, alleging her parents were harassing her and that she was being thrashed.
 
 Noushin also informed him that she was being detained at a house in Borabanda. Knowing this, Ratnakar, with the help of People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), approached   by first meeting deputy commissioner of police (West Zone) A Venkakeshwar Rao to rescue his wife, who was under  
 
 
 
 “The DCP told us to contact SR Nagar inspector Mohammed Waheeduddin, who redirected them to the sub-inspector concerned. When we approached the SI, he surfed the internet and said the address in which the girl was residing falls under   and he cannot help us,’’ Ratnakar’s counsel and member of PUCL general secretary Jaya Vindhyala said.
 
 When they telephoned Kukatpally police, right before SR Nagar police, Kukatpally police said they will get it verified. They also said the victim’s location may fall under Sanathnagar police station. It was then Ratnakar moved a Habeas Corpus petition in High Court.
 
 Noushin, after being rescued and brought to court by Kukatpally police along with her parents, told the court on Tuesday she was forcefully kept away from her husband and wanted to continue her marital life with Ratnakar. The couple under police protection, following court directions, walked free to lead their lives.
 
 
 Kukatpally inspector   confirmed that the girl was reunited with her husband,. The girl did not want to be with her parents, he said.
 
