THANE: Even as the Higher Secondary Certificate ( ) results were announced on Wednesday, it seems the young Thaneites who passed with flying colours are unstoppable, with many already planning ahead, all set to achieve higher goals in lives. While the science students were seen having their heads in the books preparing for an array of entrance examinations, the commerce aspirants were busy purchasing study material on book keeping, accounts etc. Even the humanities achievers were not so far behind with them heading to counselors and teachers to discuss a plethora of   options.

 Seventeen-year-old Mukta Kothari the topper of the Humanities stream at KG Joshi Bedekar College who scored 89.53% said, “I knew I always wanted to take up this stream since I love logic and philosophy. These two subjects are also tough but very exciting once you get a grip on them. I wish to pursue a bachelor’s degree in arts. My first choice would be Ruia College. Later on I might even try out for law and then go on to do my higher studies.”
 
 Determined on achieving their goals, some youngsters had even zeroed in on their junior college right since an early age so as to acquire correct guidance and training.   (18) science topper from   who scored 94.3% said, “I had started preparing for the board exams since day one and that helped me a lot. I knew that I wanted to pursue engineering so I had a college fixed in mind. Now I am waiting for my common entrance test results as I wish to pursue electrical engineering.”
 
 A 87.5% scorer,   (18) who is the topper in the commerce stream at Satish Prasad Dnyansadhana College said, “Whenever I would feel nervous or confused in life, I could approach my parents who are supportive and guided me in every step. They tried to even help me in my syllabus. Knowing that such pillars of support are standing behind me gave me immense strength and confidence.”
 
 The toppers even attributed their success to the teachers and the staffers at the college.
 
 
