Belagavi: Activist   said he was disappointed with the behaviour of prime minister  , and the performance of his government in the last three-and-a-half years.

 Anna said he wrote 22 letters to Modi, regarding farmer-related problems, and 10 regarding the Jan Lokpal, but did not get a single reply from him. “Since I am a fakir type of person, the Prime Minister’s ego might have stopped him from replying to me,” he said, at a news conference at cantonment board guest-house, here on Friday.
 
 “I have written a letter to the Prime Minister and finance minister, seeking a place in New Delhi to hold an indefinite hunger strike from March 23rd, but did not get any reply from him so far. I will keep corresponding with the government. I am ready to hold an agitation in jail on Martyrs’ Day ( March 23rd), if permission is not given, to hold a protest,” the 80-year-old cautioned.
 
 Hazare blamed the Modi government for weakening the Jan Lokpal law, by excluding the provisions making it mandatory for government officials to disclose the assets of their wives and children, along with their own assets, annually. “It’s the need of the hour to prevent corruption in the bureaucracy,” he said.
 
 He said the Jan Lokpal Bill draft included the clause of a Lokayukta in every state, but it was not implemented. “There is no Lokayukta in Gujarat. Narendra Modi appealed in the high court, opposing a Lokayukta, when he was the Gujarat chief minister. He even appealed on the issue in the Supreme Court, after facing a set-back in the high court. He is now talking about eradicating corruption. Big advertisements are being given about eradicating corruption. There is mismatch in preaching and following what is preached,” he said. He said it’s unfortunate that the recent Forbes survey report says India is in the first place in corruption in Asia.
 
 Anna Hazare said situation of farmers is worrying in the country. “Over 12 lakh farmers committed suicide in the past 22 years, because of not getting a reasonable price for their produce. After 70 years of independence, farmers are struggling to get food two times a day, even today. The Farmers   Bill is pending in Lok Sabha since the past several years. It is the need-of-the-hour to give a helping hand to the farmers who have crossed 60. He questioned if the government waives loans of industrialists, why not of farmers?
 
 “I will go on a hunger strike for the implementation of a strong Jan Lokpal law and farmer-related issues from March 23. I have started creating awareness about this and garnering support for it across the country. In the past one month, I have visited Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Karnataka. I will cover the rest of the country in the next two months,” Hazare added.
 
 Responding to the statement of Union minister Anantkumar Hegde, over changing the Indian Constitution, Anna said Hegde should get his brain checked by a doctor.
 
 “The country is running on the Constitution, and laws are made based on it. How can one talk about changing the Constitution? If someone says something like this, their mental balance needs to be checked. Some amendments are made to the Constitution, based on the requirements of the time, but changing the Constitution is not acceptable,” he said.
 
 
