PUNE: The minimum age for admission to standard I will be five years and eight months for the 2018-19 academic year, a state government notification issued on Tuesday said.

 The notification also announced the process for admissions to the 25%   quota. The birth date has been fixed at September 30, 2018 for the age criteria. The state government has said students born after this date will not be admitted for standard I. 
 
 Every year , there has been much confusion among parents and school managements about the exact age to admit a child in standard I. The new order makes matters clear for both parents and the schools.
 
 Last year, the minimum age for standard I admission was five years and four months. The education department intends to increase the age limit each year to attain the six year limit for standard I as per RTE rules.
 
  
  
 
 A number of schools had in the past years rejected admissions of children, on the grounds that they had either crossed the age or were below the age limit as prescribed by the Act.
 
 Last year, the state education department had extended the cut-off date from July 31 to September 30 to enable children who would have had to exit formal schooling for almost a year if they were born between July and September.
 
 Roshni  , principal of a school in Pune, said, "The department has been making changes in the age criteria for the past two years to meet the RTE regulations. But, the decision should come early as many schools begin admissions in December. This rule is applicable for general admissions other than RTE as well."
 
 In January 2015, the education department had issued a government resolution setting an age criterion for school admissions. The move was in line with requirements under the RTE Act, which mandates that all students in standard I must be six years old by 2019.
 
 To begin with, schools with nursery or playgroup as entry level will have to admit students who have completed three years as on September 30. This way, these students will be six years old when they reach standard I in 2019-2020, Santosh  , additional secretary, education department said.
 
 The new rule will apply to institutions under all the boards, including   and CICSE. Gaikwad said parents should fill up correct information and any manipulation in birth certificates if noticed will invite problems for parents of the applicant child. Gaikwad said that the application will be rejected and action would be taken.
 
 In  , the education department has said that a parent seeking admission for a child standard I in 2018-19 academic year must apply only if the child has completed five years and ten months on or before June 1, 2018 .
 
 Admission process under RTE to go on till April 29 
 
 The admission process for the 25% reserved seats under the Right to Education Act (RTE) will be conducted online between January and April for the academic year 2018-19.
 
 The process began on Tuesday and will go on till April 29, the schedule released by the school education department on Tuesday said. A government resolution issued on Tuesday stated that schools refusing to admit students under the RTE will be immediately de-recognised and action will be taken against them as per the law.
 
 Schools cannot reject admissions based on small mistakes like spelling errors in the names of the students in the online application form. The schools will be collecting the required documents from the parents and use them to fill up the forms while submitting the information to the education officer.
 
 The first school allotted to a child will remain final and if a parent fails to secure admission within the stipulated time, the admission will be cancelled and the child will not be allowed to take part in further rounds, the schedule said.
 
 
