NAGPUR: Tourism got a shot in the arm as the gates of coal mines in   district were recently opened to public, which were otherwise restricted to those working in the field. The tourists will now have access to as deep as 200 metres below the ground so that they could see the stockpile in Ukani open cast and Bhandewada coal mines situated near Wani.

 This is the second mine in the region after Saoner to have opened doors to the people.
 
 With the initiative of Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) and Western Coalfields Limited (WCL), people can see mining operations and visit the workshop division. They also will be taken to Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary and   waterfall, among other places of tourists’ attraction. 
 
 Prashant Sawai, regional manager of MTDC, Amravati division, said “The focus is to create curiosity among people about the working of mines as these are like a hidden gem and a treat to watch.”
 
 The mines are located around 134 kilometres from Nagpur and MTDC has clubbed the tour with a package that also includes a visit to   forest and Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary. “The tour will be part of customized packages for which at least five people are required. A resort is also under construction for tourists.” 
 
 M Singh, manager of Bhandewada mines, said, “Mine tourism is an underrated tourist attraction and its promotion should be given priority. The mines are a lot more safer these days and the reality is totally different from what the movies depict. Operators and guides have been trained to help tourists.” 
 
 The tourists will also be shown old and decaying buildings which were once used for mining. “Tourists will get to know the history and be able to understand the age-old methods of extracting coal. The workshops will help them get a better understanding of life in coal mine industry,” Singh added.
 
 Satendra Kumar, general manager (operations), Wani North, WCL, said, “Special arrangements such as chair ride in coal mines and view points in open cast mines are the major highlights of the tour.”
 
 
