NEW DELHI: In a major setback to efforts to reopen the   payoff case that brought down the   government in the 1989 election and long remained a political albatross for Congress, attorney general   has advised against the CBI filing a special leave petition in the Supreme Court.

 The government’s top law officer said that as more than 12 years had lapsed since the acquittal of key Bofors accused by the Delhi high court, any appeal by the CBI was likely to fail on account of delay itself. He also pointed to lack of circumstances to condone the long delay.
 
  
  
 
 After the May 2005 HC ruling, the UPA government and the then attorney general had decided not to file an appeal against the verdict that acquitted the UK-based Hinduja brothers in the Bofors howitzer bribery case. The CBI, which had wanted to appeal, “changed” its mind. The Congress-led UPA remained in office till May 2014.
 
 The case gathered fresh traction with private persons approaching the SC seeking to file a criminal appeal against the Delhi HC order. The matter was also taken up by the   which asked the CBI and the department of personnel and training to state its opinion. BJP MPs raised the issue in Parliament as well.
 
 Now, according to documents understood to be with the PAC, Venugopal has advised, “Any SLP filed before the Supreme Court at this stage, in my view, is likely to be dismissed by the court on account of long delay itself. The record does not reveal any significant events or special circumstances which could be said to constitute sufficient cause for not approaching the SC within the 90 days permitted.”
 
 He said the CBI could still present its views in the ongoing petition in the SC but the possibility of a fresh probe was uncertain as the court had noted that a “third party” did not have a locus standi.
 
 Venugopal also ticked off the government for not taking a view earlier even after the previous delay. “It is worth noting that the present government has been in position for more than three years now. In the circumstances, the long delay in approaching the court will be difficult to satisfactorily explain to the court,” he said.
 
 The top law officer did hold out some hope of the CBI making a case for the need or scope for further investigation, noting that the agency was a respondent in the case filed by petitioners Ajay Kumar Aggrawal and Raj Kumar Pandey in the SC. “Thus, the matter is still live, and the opportunity for the CBI to present its case before the SC is not entirely lost,” the AG said.
 
 Venugopal said the CBI canvassing its stand as a respondent would be better than risking filing an SLP on it own as a dismissal would be a loss of face for the agency and result in political embarrassment for the Modi government. “A dismissal of its SLP could well prejudice its stand as a respondent in the appeals already pending in the SC,” he said.
 
 The investigation into the Bofors scandal was hit by several political and legal roadblocks after a Swedish radio first aired the allegations in 1987. The probe progressed slightly when Congress was replaced by the National Front government in 1989. But Congress’s return to office in 1991 saw the brakes being applied once again. The then foreign minister,  , was forced to resign after it came to light that he had handed over an unsigned note to Swiss authorities seeking to thwart a probe into payoffs to secret accounts.
 
 When the Vajpayee government assumed office, the CBI came close to nabbing Italian businessman Ottavio  , who was supposed to be the conduit for the payment of kickbacks in the purchase of 155 mm Swedish howitzers, in Malaysia but the businessman took advantage of a weekend when courts were closed to slip out. One of the early decisions of the Manmohan Singh government was to de-freeze Quattrocchi’s UK accounts and let him withdraw 3 million euros and $1 million of the suspected slush funds.
 
 
