LUCKNOW: Dr Kafeel  , one of the nine accused in the BRD Medical College case in which a large number of children had died allegedly at the same time when supply of oxygen had been snapped in August last year, has been welcomed by the Kerala government to serve in Nipahhit Kozhikode district.

 Dr Khan had expressed his willingness to work for Nipah patients through social media earlier on Tuesday and was intimated about the Kerala government’s decision in the evening.
 
 “Disturbed with mortality due to Nipah virus. I request Kerala chief minister Mr Pinarayi   to allow me to serve at   to save innocent lives. Sister Lini is an inspiration and I am more than willing to sacrifice my life for the noble”, wrote Khan on his Twitter and followed it up on Facebook. “After sehri and fair namaz..was trying to sleep but couldnt. Disturbed with increase no of mortality...” his FB post added.
 
 ‘Numerous docs toil for the society’
 
 Replying to his tweet, Pinarayi wrote: “Any expert doctor from outside the state can come and join the team to fight Nipah in consultation with DHS (director of health services). Dr Khan’s request to serve in Nipah-affected regions has come to our attention. Even in the face of danger, numerous doctors continue to toil for the benefit of society without being mindful of their own well-being. Dr Kafeel Khan is one among them.”
 
 Kerala health minister   also expressed her gratitude to Dr Khan. Posts from Khan and Kerala Cm office drew several thousand shares and likes within minutes.
 
 The offer has come at a time when UP chief minister   and Vijayan have traded several barbs over health facilities in two states.
 
 While UP government has refused to respond to Kafeel's request for revoking his suspension, he said he was financially broke but want to add to his community service. “One of the reasons to visit Kerala is the common signs and symptoms between Nipah and Japanese Encephalitis and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome,” he told TOI.
 
 “Both have high grade fever and headache on day one. And second, day, disorientation and altered sensorium. Since I am under suspension, I can go there an work for humanity,” Khan said.
 
 The Kerala government has now decided to bear the cost of Khan's air travel and lodging expenses.
 
 The 38-year-old doctor, who is MD in paediatrics from  , however, refused to see his Kerala visit in political colours. “I don’t want get into Hindu Muslim or political debate. Chief ministers are too big people. We are just small souls whom god has been kind to offer opportunities to serve those suffering and in pain. And I will come back to Gorakhpur to serve in my hometown,” he said.
 
