KGF/Kolar: Taking a dig that is bound to turn up the campaign heat further in poll-bound Karnataka, Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said on Saturday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi "lacks the guts to face the Congress in Parliament" and has used NDA allies to stall proceedings in both Houses, which were adjourned sine die without transacting business for 22 days. 

 "Modi knows that we'll tear him to shreds over the banking scams and corruption in his government," he told reporters at Kolar Gold Fields (KGF).
 
  Addressing the last leg of his Janaashirvaada yatra in KGF, Kolar and Chikkaballapur districts, Rahul said: "Time is running out for Modi and his government. The BJP's decline will start from Karnataka followed by Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh and Rajasthan. In 2019, we will remove the BJP from the Centre. Four years ago, people gave Modi a blank cheque hoping that he'll do good for the country. But, he failed miserably. In return, India got atrocities and oppressions against the poor and Dalits. Now, the mood has changed. India doesn't trust Modi anymore." 
 
 Referring to BJP national president Amit Shah terming the opposition party members "animals", he said: "There are two non-animals in the country, one is Modi and the other is Shah. Barring them we are all animals. This is disrespectful." 
 
 He said both Modi and Shah have sensed the changing mood and they are under pressure. "One can easily make out that from Modi's face while Shah is so tensed that he ended up praising Karnataka's roads as the best in the country at a function in Maharashtra recently. It's strange but true that the BJP president is campaigning for the Congress," Rahul quipped.
 
  Search on for person who threw garland at RaGa: 
 
  Police are searching for the "mystery man" who hurled a garland at AICC president Rahul Gandhi during his visit to Tumakuru on April 4, considering it a security breach. Inspector General of Police (central range) B Dayananda said he had asked the Tumakuru SP to trace the person, learn about his background and the purpose of him throwing the garland. 
 
 In a video that has gone viral, Rahul is seen travelling in an open bus waving out to people on the streets of Tumakuru. He was there to meet Shivakumara Swami of Siddaganga mutt, who turned 111 years on April 1. As the bus moved, a person whose face is not visible, threw a garland that landed around Rahul's neck. Rahul looked around and quickly removed it.
 
 
