The BMC's internal report indicates that a female   was on her phone and didn't pay attention when   walked into the MRI room with an oxygen cylinder on January 27. He was at the hospital to see his sister's mother-in-law, who was admitted there. The cylinder, along with Maru, was immediately pulled by the machine's magnetic force leading to his death. The police arrested the male ward assistant along with a doctor for negligence after the incident. 

 The hospital is BMC-run, and a detailed inquiry has been ordered under additional municipal commissioner I A Kundan.
 
 Kundan said, "CCTV footage clearly shows the female ward assistant, attached to the MRI section, not paying attention to the patient. She also didn't make any attempt to stop him when he was entering the room with the cylinder." An official inquiry in the incident stated that Maru, his aunt and two other relatives had gone to the MRI section accompanied by two ward assistants. The L-shape MRI section divided into three compartments and   cameras are installed only in the first one. This CCTV camera shows the assistant busy on her phone.
 
 The footage shows a doctor coming out of the third section and giving instructions to Maru and his relatives. Maru can then be seen collecting metal belongings from his relatives and keeping them with him. 
 
 An officer said, "It indicates he was aware that one cannot go inside with metal and was mentally prepared to not go."
 
 Later on, they are seen walking into the second compartment and taking a left towards the a room meant for relatives to wait during the MRI examination. Witnesses stated that at this stage Maru decided to go into the room (the third compartment) as he handed over the metal objects to another relative.
 
 An officer, who is part of the inquiry team, said, "Both ward assistants didn't warn him that he couldn't enter with the cylinder. The two assistant have been held responsible for serious gross negligence based on the CCTV footage and statements."
 
 
