JAIPUR: As the city’s arterial route ‘Tonk Road’ continues to face  ,   EGIS Rail SA that recently conducted a traffic study of the city has recommend to extend the proposed Jaipur Metro Phase- II corridor by nearly 8 kilometres.

 
 As per the new proposal, the total length of the corridor will be 31km proposed from Sitapura to Vishwakarma Industrial Area, road number-14.
 
 In the existing detailed project report (DPR), the corridor length is 23 km (Sitapura to Ambabari). However, after witnessing the increase in vehicular congestion on the route, the firm has proposed an increase in length of the corridor.
 
 A senior official at UDH said, “We are working to draft a master plan of Jaipur Metro. Even if the construction work is taken up in phases, a systematic study would be beneficial for future planning of the project.”
 
 Since conceptual stage, the Jaipur Metro Phase II has witnessed many alterations in its DPR. The JMRC prepared its first DPR in 2011 during the Congress government’s tenure. The then government intended to link phase-II with the Sanganer airport and other important government buildings on the route.
 
 Following this, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) submitted its revised DPR in 2014 and proposed an underground Metro station at airport near terminal-2.
 
 In the proposal, it was mentioned that the train will run underground till Jawahar Circle after which elevated tracks will be constructed till Sindhi Camp bus stand. The elevated tracks will cross the bus stand and an underground corridor will be constructed after that till Panipech via Collectorate.
 
 In the 2014 DPR, the DMRC had proposed 10-km underground and 14-km elevated corridor. This has increased the cost of the project as DMRC estimated nearly Rs 10,000 crore to construct nearly 24-kmlong corridor. If there is revision in plan in 2018, the number of stations on 31-km route would increase to 24 from 20.
 
 Sources said, “The cost after three years is expected to increase by 40% due to rise in construction cost. However, the actual cost will be learnt from the DPR which is expected to be submitted by the firm on August 3. The traffic study and recommendations have also been forwarded to stakeholders for approval and comments.”
 
 
