Mothers are special and the fact remains that no gift or gesture can replace the unconditional love they have for us. But that does not mean we can’t make her feel special, especially when there is a day dedicated for these super humans!

 Here are five ideas to make your Mother’s Day a memorable affair this Sunday, and let her know how much you love her…
 
 
 
 Let your mother have a work-free day. She has been waking up before you every day and it’s time you surprise her by starting her day with a bed tea. Take charge of cooking meals (at least breakfast) for the day and spend some quality time with her.
 
 Go down the memory lane by flipping through old photographs together, watch a movie, take her to a spa…become her personal assistant for a day. Trust us, there can’t be a better gift for her. 
 
  
  
  Read here : 
 
 
 
 
 If your weekend is off, here’s what you can do. Secretly pack her bag, wake her up in the morning, and head for a small trip without telling her the destination. You both will get to spend some quality time together, away from the hustle bustle of the city.
 
 Else, a day out isn’t a bad option either. Visit a salon, spa or a place where she always wanted to go…you will see her smiling throughout the day!
 
 
 
 If you are out of time, then look for a pretty basket and stuff it with all her favourite things…cupcakes, cosmetics, cookies, et al! Plus, add a hand-written note, and place it next to her bed. Her first few minutes of the special day will start with much-needed TLC.
 
 
 
 If you feel a day isn’t enough, then make a week long plan to celebrate this occasion. Look for some interesting gifts online, and surprise her with at least one goodie every day! You can start with a customised mug with a photograph of you both or arrange a masseuse to visit your place. Next day, surprise her with her favourite perfume, make-up product or tickets of an upcoming event.
 
 For the following days, a photo album, handbag, footwear, books, jewellery, plant, chocolates, clothes, bathe products…all the stuff she would love. And end the week with a hand-written letter, thanking her for everything. This is pampering at its peak!
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Whichever way you plan to celebrate this day, make sure to thank her for all the daily efforts, unsaid sacrifices, and endless love. Tell her how you would have been here without all this, and you will see her swelling with pride and joy. Can there be something better? Nah!
 
 (Images: Shutterstock)
 
 
 
 
 
