Panaji: Goa’s shipbuilding sector reacted with abject disappointment to the cancellation of the Rs 32,000 crore project to build 12 mine counter measure vessels (MCMV) in collaboration with South Korean firm Kangnam Corporation. The deal failed to materialize due to differences in transfer of technology (ToT) and the terms of the contract prompting the defence ministry to scrap the tender.

 As defence minister Manohar   had pushed for Goa Shipyard Limited to collaborate with the South Korean firm to indigenously build the critical warships by acquiring the technology from Kangnam Corporation. Several Goan firms, including Kineco Kaman, Dempo Shipbuilding & Engineering Pvt Ltd, Mandovi Drydocks and the Pai Kane Group had evinced interest in the project.
 
 The decision, which was taken by Parrikar’s successor, has left local industry leaders ruing the setback.
 
 “The company is surprised as we were seriously looking to contribute to this project and we thought that since the project is based in Goa, we would have certain advantage over other players,” chairman of the Dempo Group Shrinivas Dempo said.
 
 The project to build the critical warships was meant to be a game changer not only for the Make In India program but also for the local industry. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) had invited representatives of 28 South Korean companies, which provide the supply chain for the manufacture of the minesweepers in Seoul.
 
 Several Goan companies had explored collaboration with these companies and some firms were on the verge of entering into formal agreements.
 
 “Without doubt, this is a setback for Goa as such a prestigious project would have brought a lot of business. I have spoken to the South Korean company with whom we were in talks and they said that they expected the talks to fail,” a leading Goan firm that was eyeing a share of the Rs 32,000 crore project.
 
 Sources say that the entire rebidding process will take a year if not more and the delay could lead to further cost escalations.
 
 Commercial negotiations with South Korea had hit a road block after Kangnam Corporation wanted to make “deviations from the original request for proposal” based on which the union ministry of defence had picked the company.
 
 While no Goan firm made significant capital investment in the project, Goa Shipyard had invested in development, expansion and upgradation of its infrastructure. “Fortunately we did not make any capital investment though we had held a series of discussions with the South Koreans,” Dempo said.
 
 
