KOLLAM: Six years after the brutal killing of one of Kerala’s first transgender activists — 39-year-old Anil   also know as ‘Maria’ — a local district and sessions court in   earlier this month acquitted all four youths of murder charges. Additional district and sessions judge Asheeda F held that the four accused, Hyder Farooq of Mayyanad, Priyan M of Kadappakada, Vishnu C of   and Nahas N, were not guilty of the offences that they were prosecuted for, including murder and unnatural sex.

 
 The court said that the evidence produced against the accused by the prosecution was not satisfactory.
 
 The judge, however, convicted the main accused Farooq for theft, for allegedly stealing the deceased Sadanandan’s laptop from his house. “(Farooq) pleaded mercy of the court. Even though no previous offence is proved against him, he is sent to rigorous imprisonment for two years for the offence,” the judge said, adding that the sentence can be he is eligible for set off against the jail time he has already served.
 
 Sadanand was a prominent activist between 2010 and 2012 — leading pride marches in   in a rainbow gown. The prosecution had alleged ‘HIV panic’ as the motive for the crime.
 
 According to the police, Farooq suspected that he had contracted HIV from Sadanandan with whom he had sexual relations. Medical tests subsequently had ruled out that either of them was HIV positive.
 
 A 39-year-old government employee working in the Harbour department as a toll collector in Thangaserry, Kollam, Sadanandan was married and had a son.
 
 On the morning of May 10, 2012, a colleague who came to Anil Sadanandan’s quarters to inquire about why he had not shown up at work, discovered his body lying naked in a pool of blood.
 
 Farooq, Priyan and Vishnu, all in their early 20s, were charged with the murder. A fourth accused Nahas N(21), was charged with helping the trio get a new mobile connection.
 
 According to the police, th three accused Farooq, Priyan and Vishnu hatched a criminal conspiracy. They had a party at Sadanandan’s staff quarters and had sexual intercourse before slitting his throat. The postmortem report of the victim had revealed 22 stab wounds.
 
 Advocate G Gopakumar, counsel for the accused, said that they were falsely implicated in the case. The prosecution’s case hinged on the statement of two witnesses, who the police said had last seen the accused enter the quarters. In court, the two witnesses turned hostile and it this proved fatal to the prosecution case.
 
 “The evidence was planted. The Police had not submitted the mobile phone tower records to pinpoint the location of the accused at the time of the murder. Another evidence, including an alleged extrajudicial confession was suspicious,” said advocate Gopakumar .
 
 Special public prosecutor A K Manoj, told TOI, that the state would appeal the acquittal in the high court.
 
 “There is convincing evidence against Farooq, Priyan and Vishnu and the state will file an appeal,” said prosecutor Manoj.
 
 
