JAISALMER: War museum has emerged as the hottest new tourist spot of Jaisalmer. Around two lakh tourists visited the war museum from October to February. To attract tourists, the   will soon start light and sound show here. Moreover, wives of   jawans have been deployed as woman guides in the museum.

 The war museum is a journey through history. It honours the memory of those gallant sons of India who taught us to throw caution to the winds and exhibit unflinching loyalty and unwavering resolve against all odds with undaunting courage and the will to prevail.
 
 
 The idea of establishing the museum was mooted in January 2015 with an aim to showcase the traditional bravery and evolution of the Indian Army since Independence and also to commemorate the heroes, especially from Rajasthan, who have distinguished themselves in the battlefield by their courageous acts.
 
 Today, the museum is a lively, inspirational and historic place to visit. The majestic Indian tricolour has been positioned on a 15-metrehigh mast near the complex to motivate the visitors. It has two informative halls, a fifty-seater theatre, a wellstocked souvenir shop and a cafeteria. Green lawns, with water fountains, display captured war trophies such as tanks, guns and military vehicles.
 
 The ‘Indian Army Hall’ showcases the evolution of Indian Army and is dedicated to the 1948, 1962, 1965 and 1999 Kargil conflicts. The hall provides a brief on various battles, units involved and gives an insight into the memorable events, bravery, courage and sacrifice of our soldiers who put ‘country before self’. The hall also displays various ceremonial dresses along with combat suits which are worn by our soldiers in Siachen and also during a nuclear threat.
 
 The ‘Laungewala Hall’ throws light on the historic Battle of Laungewala. Important events are highlighted with miniature models and write-ups. The exhibits on the walls also include detailed descriptions of   battle. A section of the wall is dedicated to the ‘ParamVir Chakra’ winners of the 1971War.
 
 To immortalise our gallant heroes, busts of Indian soldiers who distinguished themselves in various battles, have been placed. On the Honour Wall are etched the names of awardees of ParamVir Chakra and   who have done us proud and continue to inspire us.
 
 Efforts are underway to retell the war tales of brave soldiers in the museum. Moreover, wives of Army jawans have been trained and deployed as woman guides in the museum. They are being paid remuneration for their work.
 
 Battle X Division Journal Officer Commander (JOC) major general O P   said the war museum is becoming a favourite tourist destination and army has made better facilities for tourists. He said many plans are underway including starting light and sound show.
 
 Around two lakh tourists visited the war museum from October to February and the number is continuously increasing.
 
