A   painting on the wall, if not in the puja room, is a staple for many a Malayali household. But not many would know how much an original work of the artist would cost. A few weeks ago, a relatively unknown work of Ravi Varma titled Tilottama, fetched a whopping Rs 5.2 crore ($795,000) at the Sotheby’s Modern and Contemporary South Asian art auction at New York City. A 2016 auction by another major auctioning agency named Pandole’s had seen the artist’s Lady in the Moonlight fetching `23 crore, the record so far for an original work of his.
 
 Was the artist always coveted so much? Since when did Ravi Varma start figuring on the ‘million dollar’ club in the international art scene? We explore.
 Mohan Shivanand, former editor of a leading publication, says he has heard about a time when original works of the artist were available for Rs 5000, during the 1970s, an age when Ravi Varma’s paintings were massively attacked by the modern school of art. “It was also the post-Independence age. The colonial themes and the western style of his works gave him an additional tag of a colonial painter, much against the sentiment of the time,” 
 says Vijayakumar Menon, art historian.
 
 So when did the change begin? Only in the 90s, when his works kind of burst onto the international art scene, apparently. “In 1993, an exhibition of the artist’s works was held at the National Gallery of Modern Art, New Delhi, curated by Rupika Chawla and A Ramachandran. It was called ‘New Perspective’ and was literally a revival exhibition. Not only did it revive his legacy, the value of his works also shot up, instantly,” says Ganesh Shivaswamy, Honorary Secretary of the   Heritage Foundation, Bengaluru.
 
 India had still not warmed up to the concept of art auctioning until then and sales, if any, were private. “Indian auction houses slowly started picking up at the same period. Tilottama was first auctioned in a Sotheby’s auction in the 90s for Rs 6.5 lakh,” says Ganesh. At the same time, he hastens to add that Ravi Varma never went into oblivion, unlike other artists of his genre.
 
 Ajay Kumar, artist and former dean of Visual Arts, World University of Design, Delhi, says, “There was a re-reading in contemporary cultural studies. His themes spread to multiple streams like calendars, TV screens, film sets, cards and even fashion and jewellery.” 
 In addition, his works have a rare archival value, as they are based on Indian themes drawn more than a century ago in a western style, says Vijayakumar. “The market is very high for such a work.”
 
 Expectedly, there started a scramble for his works in the attics and puja rooms of old houses in Kerala. “Not just his paintings but for his lithographs (print made using a stone block) as well, which were scattered all over the country, made from his own press at Lonavala,” says Ganesh.
 Most of the artist’s major works were housed in galleries in Thiruvananthapuram, Mysore and Vadodara, and very few were available for sale still. However, galleries were slow to wake up to the treasures they were housing, and a visitor recalls coming across the sight of a Ravi Varma original “rolled up and tossed carelessly on the floor” in a gallery in Thiruvananthapuram, dust gathering on it in the early 90s.
 
 So, how many of his works might be available for sale outside the galleries? “We will never know. Buyers and sellers rarely reveal their whereabouts or details of the sales. There might even be works lying unnoticed in some Britisher’s home in England,” says Vijayakumar. “At one point, his original lithographs could be found even in ‘chayakkadas’ in our State. They might still be in puja rooms, worshipped as Gods, as he was the one who gave a form to Hindu Gods in India.” An original lithograph, if well preserved can reportedly fetch up to `1 lakh today.
  
  
 And who are these buyers and sellers? “Not everyone might be an art collector. The value of an original is so high today that a family which owns one might not be able to hand it down to any one of the children. Instead, they will sell it and divide the money between the children. There are also pure businesspersons who watch the prices like in a share market, to buy as well as sell,” says Vijayakumar.
 
 So, will that make Ravi Varma the most pricey Indian artist? “It depends on the season and what the theme of a particular season is in an international auction. But Ravi Varma will invariably be on the top few in a list from India.”
 
 Interestingly, during Ravi Varma’s life time, his works commanded immense value, artistically and commercially, and the amount paid to him by the King of Baroda for two commissioned works was Rs 75,000, an enormous sum at that time, reveals Ajay Kumar. “It was with that money that Ravi Varma constructed his press. His works were never sold but belonged to the kings or Britishers, the only people who could afford to commission works by him. He could never take up all the commissions, and kings from other states used to travel to see his works.”
 
 Regardless of various artists’ opinions about Ravi Varma’s works, all are unanimous in that the works are not preserved as they should be in all the galleries. “Our institutions like museums have not respected Ravi Varma’s legacy and it reflects in the way his works have been exhibited or preserved,” says Riyas Komu, artist. 
  
  
 
 
 
 There Comes Papa Kowdiar Palace, Thiruvananthapuram
 
 The Gypsies Sri Chithira Thirunal Art Gallery,Thiruvananthapuram
 
 Hamsa Damayanthi Sri Chithira Thirunal Art Gallery, Thiruvananthapuram
 
 Sakuntala Sri Chithira Thirunal Art Gallery, Thiruvananthapuram
 
 Sri Rama Breaks The Bow Sri Chithira Thirunal Art Gallery, Thiruvananthapuram
 
 The Village Pond Sri Chithira Thirunal Art Gallery, Thiruvananthapuram
 
 Malabar Lady Jayachamarajendra Art Gallery, Mysore
 
 Jatayu Vadham Jayachamarajendra Art Gallery, Mysore
 
 Bhishma Prathijna Jayachamarajendra Art Gallery, Mysore
 
 Lady in Moonlight Jayachamarajendra Art Gallery, Mysore
 
 Nala Damayanthi Maharaja Museum Trust, Baroda
 
 Viswamithra & Menaka Maharaja Museum Trust, Baroda
 
 Harishchandra Maharaja Museum Trust, Baroda
 
 The Miser National Art Gallery, Chennai
 
 Lady with Mirror National Art Gallery, Chennai
 
 
