Step into singer Najim Arshad’s flat in Kochi and you might be greeted by loud meows from two sources. But Najim has only one cat — a Persian named Jikru. The other is an impersonator, a lorikeet (a small-sized parrot) named Lalu. “He started out by mimicking Jikru but has now moved on to other sounds; our calling bell, and the way I call my wife – Kiki. My wife actually thinks I am calling her when he makes the sound,” laughs Najim.

 
 Najim was always an animal lover and had lots of pet birds at home. So when he set up a place for himself at Kochi, he wanted to take in a cat. “But my family was scared of all animals. It will shed fur, and will bite and scratch, they said. But I knew that no one will be scared of a kitten. I got Jikru when he was just two months old, and he was just too cute to be scary. Slowly he pawed his way into everyone’s hearts. My wife loves him now while my umma often puts him on her lap and pets him,’’ he says.
 
  Around the same time, they got Lalu as well. Lalu was initially scared to approach humans but once he got comfortable with them, there was no looking back. “He was initially put in a cage as we didn’t want him to fly off and get attacked by other birds. But now he doesn’t fly outside the flat and is let loose inside. He loves to perch on our arms.”
 The two pets have struck up an unlikely friendship as well. “Contrary to what we thought, Lalu is the one who irritates Jikru. But Jikru always has an eye on Lalu’s imported bird food and will finish it off unless we are careful.” 
 
  
  
 Jikru is now eight months old, and lives like a king. “We brush him twice a day, and once a month, he is taken to the groomer’s. He eats only certain brands of cat food and has his favourite preparations of fish. There are people here to feed him but when we go to Thiruvananthapuram we take him along in the car. He loves the air conditioner and will sleep happily for four to five hours,” says the singer. 
 
 And there is one huge change that the duo have brought about in his life, says Najim, which is that they have replaced mobile phones. “They are my biggest entertainment now and I don’t need the mobile phone any more to while away time,” he says with a laugh. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
