MANSA:   chief minister   on Sunday formally launched   scheme for farmers. On the occasion, he also allayed fears of the farmers whose names were not in the loan waiver lists. Asking them not to feel disheartened, he assured that farm loans of 10.25 lakh small and marginal farmers of Punjab would be waived in four phases.

 Ten months after forming the government in the state, Amarinder kick-started the farm loan waiver scheme by handing over waiver certificates to some of the farmers. The loan waiver scheme has been started amidst protests by farm organisations and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) that had sought that loans of all farmers should be waive off without any condition of land holding and loan amounts. 
 
 Amarinder, while trying to justify the ceiling on loan waiver and delay in its implementation, said, “We got an empty state treasury from the previous SAD-BJP government and gathered resources to implement waiver. The Union government has declined to provide assistance for farm loan waiver so we have to mobilise resources for it on our own. Now as we have started the waiver despite odds against us we will continue providing assistance and will reach out to all 10.25 lakh small and marginal farmers out of total 17.50 farming families in Punjab.” 
 
 On claims that names of many farmers have not figured in waiver lists, Amarinder said names of only those had not been figured in the lists where some anomalies in names were there and the farmers should approach authorities concerned for corrections and waiver would be provided to the deserving farmers.
 
 On the occasion, Amarinder also tried to project Punjab as the only state that had has implemented the scheme for farmers across the country with biggest loan amount waiver. He said while Punjab was giving waiver of Rs 2 lakh, the Maharashtra government had announced loan waiver of Rs 1.5 lakh, Uttar Pradesh and   1 lakh each whereas   and Karnataka government had announce waiver of Rs 50,000 each. 
 
 Amarinder said, “When the   came to power in Punjab, we had no idea that the economic condition of Punjab was so bad that it was under debt of over Rs 2 lakh crore and due to it there was some delay in implementing the loan waiver scheme. Despite repeated requests to the Union government for assistance, the   government made it clear that no help was being given even to the state governments headed by the  .”
 
 Earlier, rural development and panchayat minister   said Amarinder was like God to farmers for implementing loan waiver.
 
 
