NAGPUR: Public transport in the city may be hit from Tuesday as two out of three unions of drivers and conductors of three Red Bus operators unanimously decided to go on indefinite strikes over uniform wages. 

 The decision to this effect was taken after two rounds of talks between drivers-conductors and NMC-bus operators of the Shiv Sena-affiliated Bharatiya Kamgar Sena Nagpur Union failed to to yield any result. 
 
 Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s transport department, it seems, is planning some serious action against the workers going on strike. A senior   official said the Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) may be enforced on workers who refuse to come to duty from Tuesday.
 
 Recently former MP Prakash Jadhav met municipal commissioner Ashwin   and called for uniform wages across the NMC in keeping with the minimum wages declared by the state government.
 
 President of the union Bhaurao   said the NMC asked all contractors to implement revised minimum wages for their workers on May 16, 2017, itself. “But the civic body has been silent on our genuine demand,” Rewatkar said.
 
 As per the revised wages, skilled workers like drivers and conductors are entitled to get Rs18,398 salary per month and instead being paid Rs9898, he pointed out. 
 
 Apart from demanding revision in wages, the other demand is included setting up of vigilance wings in all companies working for NMC. This will ensure that a proper inquiry is conducted before terminating the services of any worker. The worker should also get half of his salary if he is suspended.
 
 According to the union, the state government and the NMC will be held responsible for any inconvenience caused to the passengers due to the strike.
 
 Though drivers from two operators have decided to go on strike, drivers from third operator are not interested to participate in the agitation. The differences of opinion between the drivers appear not to be restricted to the protest plans alone. A joint meeting convened by labour commissioner’s office here on Friday failed to come into any conclusion. 
 
 A report submitted to Mudgal said that the drivers and conductors were already getting minimum wages as per government resolution issued for industries, power and labour department. “They are getting wages as per employees in public motor transport,” the letter said. 
 
 However, the NMC has already sought guidelines over the union’s demand and also approached additional labour commissioner (Nagpur). 
 
 Transport manager   has also said all drivers and conductors are not ready to participate in the strike, but due to pressure from some mischievous elements, they may go on strike. 
 
 
