
 
  Contestants woke up to a song from the movie Ulidavaru Kandanthe.   said they should have asked them to reveal their faces.   teased   for her Kannada speaking skills.   said it is easy to cook to   which made   to say that her real face has been revealed. To select a captain, a task to burst balloons was given to all contestants and after bursting they have to collect chit in balloon.   Gowda emerged victorious for collecting highest number of chit for which she became the captain of the house for the second time.   while conversing with   said how Niveditha has been changing her stance since the first week. He spoke what Chandan Shetty thinks about being in finale and if   had become the captain he would have saved Chandan and Niveditha.
  
  A task   was given to contestants in which contestants have to garland their co-contestant whom they like and they have to smear black paint on contestant face they dislike. Diwakar garlanded Chandan who is his best friend in the house and smeared black paint on Riyaz face for having indifferences with him after first week. Sameer garlanded Riyaz who making him to follow the rule and smeared black paint on J Karthik for saying he would not to meet some contestants outside the house. Shruti garlanded Diwakar for being transparent in the house and smeared black paint on Sameer for not giving right reasons while selecting best performer and worst performer. Chandan garlanded Diwakar for being his best friend the house and he smeared black paint on Riyaz face for repeatedly saying that he wants to win   show. Niveditha garlanded Chandan for identifying her mood properly even she smeared black colour on Riyaz for taking to personal level during tasks. Riyaz garlanded Anupama for her good nature and he wished good luck to her and he smeared black paint on Sameer to give his best while doing the task. J Karthik garlanded Shruti for not changing her behaviour in the house. He smeared black paint on Sameer. Anupama garlanded J Karthik with whom she speaks a lot. Even she smeared black colour on Sameer requesting him to change his behaviour.
  
  Riyaz to Chandan said why he did not try to solve the differences with him in bedroom area. The contestants who got nominated are Riyaz, Niveditha, Shruti, Karthik, Sameer and Anupama Gowda directly nominated Chandan for being uninspiring in the house. Shruti started blaming J Karthik for neglecting her without giving proper reasons.
