KOCHI: The sub-inspector of   police station Deepak GS kicked   several times to 'make him feel better' as he fell down in the police station due to stomach pain and was unable to get up from the floor, said   SR Sajith on Wednesday. 

 Sajith, who was released on bail for two days to attend his brother's funeral said Sreejith started to complain of pain soon after police officers who came to take him to custody kicked him after he refused to enter the jeep. "They were thrashing me on my back and I slouched down covering my head. At the same time, they were beating up Sreejith as he was questioning them. Near the police jeep, he collapsed while they were forcing him to the jeep," said Sajith.
 
 Sajith said he was friends with some people who were accused of the attack on  's house but both of them didn't go to the house on the day it came under attack.
 
 "Sumesh, who has been blamed for the scuffle with Vasudevan's family, is a friend of mine. I had taken him to a hospital when he got attacked, however I was at North Paravur when the incident took place," said Sajith. He said by the time they reached the police station, his brother was unable to walk and slumped down on the floor after they took him inside. 
 
 "As he couldn't get up, the SI kicked him several times. He stomped on his stomach saying he will help him to get up. We begged him to take him to a hospital but he refused. Sreejith lay on the floor for hours before he was offered a chair," he said.
 
 In the morning, Sajith said they were taken to a hospital in Paravur for medical examination. "I was with him when he was taken to the hospital for the first time. He was given an injection for pain and some medicines as well. But he was brought back to the police station though he was vomiting," said Sajith.
 
 "Other than the SI no other officers beat us inside the station, but we were not given food for at least a day. Sreejith was in pain and was puking the entire night but no medical attention was given to him until he started screaming on Saturday night," he said.
 
 Only the three officers who nabbed Sreejith from his house have been suspended while no action has been taken against the SI.
 
