The ninth edition of the most-awaited drive of the year will flag off on Saturday with 530 cars and 1,600 participants. Times Women’s Drive (TWD) is the biggest all-woman car rally in the world and this year’s special invitee is the ‘Gazelle Rally Team’, an all-women team from Egypt. “It’s my first time ever in India,” says 36-year-old Yara Shalaby, the only female cross-country racer in Egypt. “I’m extremely excited to be a part of this great cause and hopefully we will be encouraging Indian girls to be part of this motorsports world.”

 
 
 Some of the unique features of this year’s drive include Hyderabad participating for the first time; first, second and third place winners from each city winning cash prizes worth Rs 4.5 lakh, Rs 3.3 lakh and Rs 2.2 lakh respectively; and additional prizes for the ‘Best Dressed Team’, ‘Most Stylish Woman’, ‘Best Car Karaoke Video’, and the ‘Best Social Message On Car’.
 
 Through this drive, The Times Group is addressing women’s empowerment, spreading awareness about cancer and educating women that early detection is an effective form of prevention. TWD has been working closely with Tata Memorial Hospital’s Women’s Cancer Initiative since 2009 and a large part of the money collected through registrations will be donated to the hospital.
 
 “Times Women’s Drive has led to more women today being aware about the cancers affecting women,” said  , vice-president of the Women’s Cancer Initiative at Tata Memorial Hospital. “Due to the initiative,   has been able to spread cancer awareness across Maharashtra benefiting many women from remote villages.”
 
 In 2009, this drive had a modest beginning with 250 cars driving a distance of 240km from Mumbai. Pune was added in 2010. After being certified as the biggest drive in the world, TWD doubled the distance and added Bangalore in 2016. On Saturday, this drive will be simultaneously flagged off from Mumbai, Pune, Bangalore and Hyderabad and cover a distance of over 600km to Goa. TWD bagged the   for three years in a row and set a Guinness World Record for most female participants in a motorsport event in 2014.
 
 This year’s registration phase witnessed intense competition as participants scrambled to garner maximum online votes to be selected for the drive. Women participants reached out to friends and acquaintances from across the globe and collectively garnered more than 3 million votes from over a 100 countries to enable their selection.
 
