Madurai: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit presided over the 51st annual convocation of Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) and gave away PhD degrees to 306 candidates and 78 graduates who won various medals in their academics, here on Monday. “I would like to quote Martin Luther King - The day we see the truth and cease to speak is the day we begin to die - injustice and corruption should not be tolerated, and it is applicable to all, students, professors and journalists,” the governor said in his address.  The governor also inaugurated smart classrooms at the university. MKU has established 82 smart classrooms in all the 20 schools at the varsity which offering 41 programmes, with each classrooms for I and II year PG programmes under the financial assistance of RUSA.  He also inaugurated two academic parks - Swami Vivekananda Academic Park at the School of Youth Empowerment and Kavikuyil Sarojini Naidu Women Academic Park in front of the women hostels. The university is bringing out 25 academic parks named after various personalities on its premises. State higher education minister K P Anbalagan, Pro Chancellor of MKU, addressing the convocation said that providing information communication technology enabled quality higher education is the aim of state government and various efforts have been undertaken in this regard. “MKU under its purview has some of the oldest institutions started in Madurai like the American College, Madura College and Lady Doak College. The university is faring better and has found a place in NIRF (national institute ranking framework),” he said. “Under the current regime, Tamil Nadu is performing well in higher education. The gross enrollment ratio of state stands at 46.9% against the national figure of 21.5%. Similarly, gross enrollment ratio for women stands at 45.6% against the national figure of 24.5%,” the minister said. Justice Dr S Vimala, Madras high court, delivered the convocation address where she said that education is a powerful instrument for any change namely economic, political, cultural, scientific and social. “Learning neither begins nor ends in classrooms, it is a lifelong commitment. Graduation is only a concept, in real life, every day one has to graduate, a process that goes on till the last day of life,” she said.