TRIPUNITHURA: Real estate dealers in Tripunithura hint that the demand for apartment complexes in the temple town is going down due to the severe drinking water scarcity. Home buyers are cancelling agreements with builders for flats citing water crisis as the main reason.

 “Many clients, who had booked for 2BHK and 3BHK apartments, have cancelled their agreement. Home buyers prefer independent houses, which have wells to ensure constant supply of water. Even old houses with wells are in demand,” said Nandanan A N, a real estate broker in the town.
 
 There are builders who have dropped projects as they cannot ensure drinking water supply. “We have decided not to go for any new projects in the area due to water crisis,” said a builder, who has completed at least half-a-dozen projects in and around Tripunithura.
 
 A place known for its rich water resources, thanks to the ponds in the region, now a bitter reality stares at the face of thousands of residents in the area especially those living in highrises. Many are dependent on the tanker truck operators for their daily water.
 
 Due to this many have started preserving their wells even as they demolish ancestral homes to build multi-storeyed houses. One such person is  , who said, “Our first demand while signing an agreement regarding the reconstruction work was to maintain and rejuvenate the well situated near the old building. As the initial step the builder revived the well, which provides water throughout the year. Moreover, a temple pond next to our apartment helps in maintaining ground water level.”
 
 Interestingly, amid the thoughtless act of filling of ponds located in the premises of palaces, a member of the erstwhile royal family residing near Statue Junction, Tripunithura has taken up the task of rejuvenating of an old pond. “We have decided to rejuvenate the pond as to maintain the water level of two wells in the palace complex,” said  , a resident of the palace.
 
 It is for the first time an unused private pond situated inside a palace complex is being revived.   is engaged in rejuvenating many temple ponds and a few public ponds in Tripunithura. “Many palaces and ponds have moved way for skyrises. Now, it’s mainly the ponds inside temple complexes that help to retain ground water levels,” said Suresh.
 
 Meanwhile, Tripunithura municipality is making every effort to maintain the public ponds and wells. Chairperson   said, “We are keen to maintain the conventional ground water resources, including public ponds and wells. Last fiscal, we spend Rs 20 lakh for rejuvenating half-a-dozen public ponds spread over Thiruvankulam and Irumbanam. This year the cleaning of public ponds and wells have already started and will be completed by May.”
 
