JAIPUR: Perhaps there is a reason why   is more of a surety in Tests rather than any other format in the Indian team. While he may be an attractive stroke-maker, he defends and leaves the ball well. That style is evident both on and off the field.

 
 On Saturday here, the   captain did take some of the questions thrown at him. For the rest, he was happy to let Royals’ head of cricket   or Rajeev Khanna, vice-president, take strike.
 
 His start, like his batting, was calm as he thanked ‘his family’ (the franchise) for “appointing me as the captain of the side” and that he considered it to be a responsibility and challenge. “I love challenges and am excited about the prospect.”
 
 A good front-foot defence to start with. A slightly tricky one on Smith followed. Was the punishment meted out to Smith harsh?
 
 “I cannot comment on that because it was completely the ICC and Cricket Australia’s discretion.” He left this one, perhaps outside his off-stump. But went on to add: “Whatever had to happen has happened. CA and ICC took their decisions. It’s time to respect Smith as a batsman and as a player. With the kind of record he has, especially in the Tests, that’s best for now.”
 
 Bharucha was more forthcoming. “If you look at the decision historically, it was too harsh,” he pointed out.
 
 There was another question on what position would Royals be at when the   season was done. “You would know that only after the tournament.” If you thought that was his best shot of the day, there was more. “We would try and play good cricket and give our 100 per cent as T20 is a format where the game can change within an over or two. So we would try not to take any game lightly.”
 
 Another one with a straight bat.
 
 And then there was nostalgia too. “It’s a happy feeling coming to Jaipur. I received some positive vibes when I entered the city. The mind now automatically wants to bat. And we have a good record here too. But it’s like a new start now. Surely the home games will be very important but the away games are equally important,” ‘Jinx’, as he is popularly known as, added.
 
 While Rahane has almost always batted as an opener with Royals, but with Smith out and he being their most experienced batsman, would he come at No.3? The answer was clear by now. “Sir, you would know that on the day of the first match,” Rahane signed off with a smile.
 
 
