JAIPUR: The heart of a 23-year-old girl, who was declared brain dead, will be flown to Delhi for transplant. It is the second cadaver   donation in   (SMS) Hospital in seven days. 

 “The girl was admitted to the hospital on March 29. The doctors admitted her and provided her treatment. But she did not regain consciousness. Hospital committee constituted for declaring brain dead examined her as per the laws and declared her brain dead two days ago,” said Dr  , superintendent  . 
 
 For the past two days, the counsellors of SMS Hospital had been talking and encouraging the girl’s relatives and family members to donate her organs. The counsellors told the relatives that if they give consent for her organ donation including her heart, liver and kidneys, she will save lives of four patients who are fighting for their life. After two days of counselling, finally her family members gave consent for organ donation on Sunday. 
 
 Dr Meena said, “Since there was no recipient of heart in the state, we informed National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation in Delhi about it. They found a recipient in   (AIIMS), New Delhi.” A team of   is expected to arrive in the city for retrieving the heart and it will be transported to Delhi by creating a green corridor from SMS Hospital till the airport. 
 
 Besides, the SMS Hospital will take help of doctors from Delhi, wo will also arrive on Monday for liver transplant. Officials said that kidney and liver transplants will be done at SMS Hospital. 
 
 The hospital will harvest organs after teams of experts from Delhi will reach the hospital. “The heart has to be transplanted within 4 hours after retrieving it,” said an official, while expressing need to keep everything ready including transportation facilities so that crucial time is not wasted. 
 
 So far, 25 cadaver organ donations have been done in the state making 43 kidney transplants, 23 liver transplants and 13 heart transplants possible. 
 
 The heart retrieved from 30-year-old person seven days ago at SMS Hospital was transplanted into a 56-year-old patient who was suffering from an incurable condition called dilated cardiomyopathy. The recipient is a government employee and a resident of Ghaziabad. 
 
 
