MUMBAI: A co-owner of  ,   and a hookah supplier were arrested on Saturday night in connection with the December 29 fire that claimed 14 lives.

 The trio—Kamala Mills Ltd director Ravi Bhandari, fire officer Rajendra Patil and Utkarsh Pandey who supplied hookah to 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro—were called to the N M Joshi Marg police station for questioning earlier in the day. Later, they were booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, a charge that carries a maximum punishment of 10 years in jail, and arrested around 11pm. Patil is the first BMC official to be arrested in the case. 
 
 Civic chief Ajoy Mehta had, in his probe report to CM  , proposed criminal action against the mill compound owners for leasing out the open terrace area to the resto-bars. Another co-owner, Ramesh Gowani, has already been booked under the MRTP Act. The trio had come under the spotlight in Mehta’s report. 
 
 Patil is among the 10 BMC officials against whom Mehta had sought a full-fledged departmental inquiry. He had given a no-objection certificate—‘fire NOC’—to 1Above a week before the inferno by attaching old photos showing the terrace where the resto-bars (the other being Mojo’s Bistro where the fire originated) stood was open.
 
 The terrace, in fact, had been completely covered, the panel probing the fire that killed 14 found on inspection of the premises.
 
 If Patil’s role is established, it would be an indication of official complicity. One assistant divisional fire officer and four other civic officials were suspended immediately after the incident. 
 
 “It is practically impossible to construct such a large terrace covering within such a short time as it was totally refurbished on the date of the incident (December 29). It appears very clearly that either the photos were backdated and taken when this structure was not constructed or he (Patil) did not visit the site and trusted the photographs submitted by the owner of the restaurant. In both cases he has failed to perform his duty as expected,” stated Mehta in his report submitted to CM Devendra Fadnavis on January 18.
 
 The inquiry report said Patil had attached pictures showing that the terrace where patrons were serviced had no cover. But “the entire part (of the) terrace in possession of 1Above was found to be fully covered with compartments made by M.S. (Mild Steel) Frames. These compartments and the entire terrace of 1Above was made sound-proof providing sound-proof material sandwiches (sic) between asbestos sheets from both sides,” the report stated.
 
 The terrace was accessible through a small passage near the lift which was also covered by an arch made of steel frame, which the probe panel suspected may have been used as entry to the terrace portion in possession of 1Above.
 
 Unauthorized toilets were found to have been erected on the terrace, and it also had all the arrangements for storing materials required for the resto-bars.
 
 The fire broke out after flying embers from the lighted charcoal segree came into contact with the combustible cloth material used for the curtain in Mojo’s Bistro and very rapidly spread to the unauthorized, highly combustible thatched roof of 1Above, the report had said.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
