Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to launch Tuberculosis (TB) Free Nagpur programme on lines of similar project being implemented in Chennai. Target is to free the city of the disease in seven years. NMC data reveal, TB positive cases have increased in city but deaths came down. Total 2,481 positive cases were registered in 2017, highest in last five years. Deaths from this notifiable disease have come down to 81, lowest in last five years. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal recently sent NMC TB officer KB Tumane to Chennai to know about that city’s programme. Tumane then submitted a preliminary report to Mudgal. Additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare met officials of health department a couple of days ago and asked for a detailed proposal to launch the programme. Tumane told TOI, NMC will seek help of any NGO in implementing the programme. International NGO Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI) is sponsoring and implementing TB-Free Chennai programme. CHAI had selected three cities worldwide for this programme, remaining two being Karachi in Pakistan and Vima in Peru. CHAI gave eight mobile vans equipped with all diagnostic machines, 16 Cartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (CB NAAT) machines, each costing Rs 20 lakh and other equipment. “We will also request CHAI to support us. In case they do not, we will have to take up the project on our own or with help of any NGO,” he said. Tumane said NMC will require four diagnostic vans, 4 CB NAAT machines, volunteers for spreading awareness among patients and their kin and their continuous monitoring. “Central government has given one CB NAAT machine to NMC that has been installed at Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya recently. This is the third machine in city with two being at GMCH and IGMCH. Need is to reach to the citizens and diagnose the disease for success of the programme,” he said. Tumane added sanatoriums for TB patients out of city limit could help prevent spread of disease. “An average patient spreads disease to 14 more. Some people have no idea of their infection despite having the disease. Some unintentionally spread the disease by not taking precautions while going out in public. Target is to identify all patients and treat them and also to prevent spread of disease. Thus we can achieve TB-Free Nagpur by 2025,” he said. Tumane also said TB-Free did not mean no positive cases at all. “Nation’s TB positive cases ratio is 217 per 1 lakh population at present. City’s ratio is 191 per 1 lakh population. TB Free City is declared if ratio comes down to 10 per 1 lakh population,” he said.