NEW DELHI: NEW DELHI: The national   entrance exam (JEE Main2018) was conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education today i.e., April 8, 2018 from 10:30 am to 12:30 pm) for Offline Mode.

 
 Majority of the students were of the view that the paper was moderate difficult and questions from Chemistry were least asked . 
 
 Leena Nandeshwar said, "Chemistry was tough, Maths was lengthy and Physics part of the paper was average."
 
 "There were many questions which were not asked from easy chapter like - Atomic Structure, Biomolecules, Polymer Surface and Metallurgical. It was a kind of biased paper in chemistry as compared to past JEE paper. Questions from Physics and Maths were or moderate difficulty level," said another student. 
 
 "I would not say the paper was hilariously tough. However, mathematics was lengthy and the questions on series were disturbing. One had to really choose questions on physics to score from. Chemistry, concentrated on the lesser important chapters," said Rishabh Ranjan Das from Kolkata.
 
 Aditya Biswas said, "The paper was comparatively tougher than the last 3-4 years. Chemistry and Physics were tough and Maths was very lengthy. I don't know how some students were saying paper was easier than last year. I had attempted last year paper few days back and got 200. In today's paper I will hardly get 140."
 
 Utkarsh Agarwal from Delhi said, "The paper was above moderate difficulty level. Chemistry, which comes easy each year, was tougher and questions were picked from chapters which don't have much weightage. Maths was as usual - hard."
 
 
 Aachkal Achkal said, "As per   circular 2018, there will be proportional distribution of mark from every chapter of the Chemistry, but in reality not even a single question asked in the paper from the topics like Atomic Structure, Polymer Biomolecule, Chemistry in Everyday Life etc."
 
 Harish Saryal, a Delhi-based student, appearing for the first time , said, "I was expecting a tough paper, though it was not. I found Chemistry part of the paper bit hard. "
 
 "The question papers of   comprises questions asked in the entrance examination in the previous years. JEE Main question papers 2018 for paper 1 has questions from Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics," Harish added.
 
 Pooran Singh, who is appearing second time for the entrance exam, said, "Many Physics and Mathematics questions were from previous papers. This paper was easier than the previous year's. I am sure, this time I will be able to make it to the JEE Advanced 2018."
 
 About 13 lakh candidates appeared for JEE Main in offline mode today. The online mode of the paper would be conducted on April 15 and 16 this year. 
 
 Out of these candidates, only about 2.2 lakh candidates would be shortlisted to appear in the JEE Advanced 2018, giving them a chance to compete for 10,000 seats in the various Indian Institutes of Technology or the IITs. 
 
 
 The paper had 90 questions. A correct answer will fetch a student four marks, wrong answer will be awarded with one negative mark.
 
 
 
 
 
