It seems like ages ago, that exchanging hand-written love letters was the hottest dating trend on campus. Or anywhere for that matter. But they say ‘change is the only constant’ and to counter society’s erpetually shifting state of mind, Cupid ensures that lovers too reinvent the way they express themselves, regularly. On  , What’s Up, Campus? decided to get in touch with city students to see what the current crop of dating trends on   is like. Turns out, there’s no stereotyping today’s youth. While short-term dating seems to have caught on in a big way,   still find plenty of takers and long-distance relationships are not dead either. Read on, but remember, ‘judging a person does not 
define who they are. It defines who you are’...
 
 
 A widely accepted dating format today, short-term dating seems to be the choice of many. According to Suraj Jeswani from DES Navalmal Firodia Law College, there’s plenty to take away from this format. He says, “I believe in relationships lasting 
 between two and six months. There is a lot to learn from each partner. You explore the world from different perspectives and learn to respect multiple opinions even if you do not agree with them. It just makes you more knowledgeable, tolerant and helps you evolve as a person. Besides, it is not as if we are not open to long-term at all. If someone is too good to be true, you would not the person go.”
 
 
  
 
 In an age when time is money, does it still make sense to invest years on one person? Mickey Thomas from Christ Institute of Management, will have you know that a long-term partner can still be worth all the time. “I have been in both, a long-term and  , for almost three years now. Some say factors like jealousy and possessiveness creep in. But I say it is the best of two worlds – you enjoy the feeling of being in love and at the same time, I enjoy my space and so does she. There are times when I miss her – especially when my friends get to spend time with their loved ones – but I still like sticking to this,” he says.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 If you thought that dating was only about love, think again. For some it’s as simple as finding a compatible someone (or compatible few) who you can spend intimate weekends with. Like Vishal Pawar from Sinhagad College of Management, who feels that relationships demand too much effort and time. “I study, handle my dad’s business and take classes. This doesn’t leave me with any time for a serious relationship. I’m completely fine with the idea of casual dating and comfortable with social meets as long as the person is not a complete stranger,” he says. And Ishaa Pantsachiv, from Symbiosis School of Photography, says that this especially works if you want to keep things exciting and don’t like the idea of commitment. “People these days are reluctant to commit. It’s been a while since I came across someone willing to commit. So, multiple partners, multiple dates, multiple   is what works for me. I think change is good and it keeps my love life fast and exciting,” she shares.
 
 
  
 
 The year may have gotten off to a good start with the Supreme Court agreeing to review the archaic Sec 377. But still, many of our LGBTQ+ brethren prefer keeping thier love lives under wraps, out of fear. Imana Bhattacharya from Symbiosis Institute of Media and Communication, explains, “Being a queer individual, dating is never easy for me as there are many repercussions to consider. I’ve been lucky to have found love in my best friend for a long time and it’ been wonderful to have faced nothing but acceptance from my friends and colleagues. People in my college are devoid of prejudices like homophobia.” In fact, Shreyansh Sharma from Symbiosis International University, insists that casual relationships are the norm among the community only because homosexuality is still considered criminal. “Since India is yet to legitimise homosexuality, we have no choice but to stick to casual relationships. But given a choice, some of us would love to be in committed relationships,” Shreysnsh opines.
 
 
 
 With the dawn of short-term dating, one might think that long-distance love has long been forgotten. But Neha Oza from Ferguson College says that’s not true. After all, technology has made the world a smaller place. “Changing partners is easy today, but staying together is the real challenge. Being patient – especially in a long distance relationship – is difficult, but it has helped me. Long distance gets difficult since you don’t get to meet your partner regularly, but technology has definitely made things much easier.” Swapnil Rewatkar from Sinhagad College of Management, adds, “I have been in a long-distance relationship for six years now. There’s something to look forward to every day. I would opt for the distance since it makes you value the person and time with them, even more.”
 
 
  
 
 — 
 
 
 
 
