Physical inactivity is the fourth leading cause of death worldwide causing 3.2 million deaths/year. More and more jobs are now sedentary or desk-bound with the advent of the computer.Studies show that long hours of seated work increases the employee’s risk for several conditions such obesity, upper body pain (arm, hand, neck and shoulder) and mental stress.

 On the other hand, even slight amount of   seems to improve the health of such office-goers. However, most off-duty approaches to increasing physical activity have proved unsuccessful.
 
 Researchers tried to assess if an under-the-desk pedalling device improved the health of sedentary workers. A total of 54 employees were divided into 2 groups.One group received emails 3 times a week on improving posture, taking regular breaks fromsitting, increasing physical activity by making small changes to the work environment and tips for reducing occupational stress. The other group received emails along with a portable pedalling device which was placed under their desk and its usage was assessed via an iPod. 
 
 After 4 months, results showed that participants used the pedalling device for 70% of all work days and pedalled for an average of 50.2minutes/day. This translated to nearly an extra 107 kilocalories burnt per day. In fact, at the end of the study, 70% of the employees who were used the pedalling device chose to retain it, which was an encouraging trend. 
 
 Moreover, increase in the number of minutes pedalled/day was associated with positive changes in weight, total fat mass, body fat percentage and resting heart rate. Increased pedalling speed was also inversely related to waist circumference of the participants. Increased usage of the pedalling device was linked to improved concentration at work and less days missed due to physical/mental health problems. Thus improving the physical activity levels of seated employees even by a small amount resulted in better health as well as improved work productivity.
 If you are in a desk-bound job, pedal away to better health!
 
 
 1. Carr LJ et al. Am J Prev Med. 2015 Jul 31. pii: S0749-3797(15)00332-3. doi: 10.1016/ j.amepre.2015.06.022
 
 
 Dr. Dipak I. Agarwal, M.B.B.S., M.D. (Med.), Consultant Cardiologist, Padmavati Hospital, Yavatmal
 
 
 
 
