BENGALURU: Congress leader G Parameshwara’s swearing-in as the deputy chief minister of Karnataka has revived the old debate over whether the oath he was administered was constitutionally valid.

 
 According to constitutional experts, the position of deputy chief minister or deputy prime minister is not technically a constitutional office. It is only used to bring political stability and parity within a coalition government.
 
 “It seldom carries specific powers and the person is as good as any other minister in the cabinet. Earlier, a deputy chief minister would usually be given powerful portfolios such as home, revenue or finance. These days, that too is being compromised,” said former law and parliamentary affairs minister S Suresh Kumar.
 
 The trend of creating the post of ‘deputy’ CM caught the political imagination after Devi Lal took oath as deputy PM in the V P Singh government in 1989, and Karnataka took the lead in appointing deputy chief ministers time and again.
 
 In 1992, the state had a   in S M Krishna (Congress) in M Veerappa Moily’s cabinet in 1992. In 1994, it was J H Patel (Janata Dal) in the H D Deve Gowda government.
 
 Deputy CMs became a regular feature between 2004 and 2013 because of fractured verdicts and part of managing political crises.
 
 Former CM Siddaramaiah holds the record of the longest serving deputy chief minister of Karnataka. He held the post twice: once under J H Patel and again under Dharam Singh in 2004. After Siddaramaiah, Lingayat strongman M P Prakash was made deputy CM for a year in 2006 in the Dharam Singh government.
 
 In the JD(S)-BJP coalition government, B S   was deputy CM. In 2012, two deputy CMs — K S Eshwarappa and R Ashok — took on the role, with Jagadish Shettar as the chief minister. So far, Karnataka has had nine deputy chief ministers, including Parameshwara. The post of deputy PM and CM, in fact, got public acceptance in 1989 after a controversy broke out when Devi Lal took oath as “deputy PM”, audaciously altering the oath for “minister” that was administered by then President R Venkataraman. This was, however, challenged in the Supreme Court by one K M Sharma, alleging that Lal had not taken oath as prescribed in the Third Schedule of the Constitution.
 
 Then attorney general Soli Sorabjee told the SC that the deputy PM position is only descriptive and ornamental for all purposes and Lal is just a minister since there is no constitutional sanction for a deputy PM. The SC, on January 9, 1990, accepted the argument, setting a new precedent. So, even though Parameshwara has taken oath as deputy CM, he will function only as a minister.
 
 
