LUDHIANA: A sewer cleaner died of asphyxiation after he entered a manhole to clear a blockage in one of the pipes on Street No.3, Daba  , here on Tuesday evening.

 Balram, the cleaner, had been hired by a house-owner to clear a blockage in a sewer line of his house. However, as the problem was outside, the sewer cleaner opened the MC’s manhole outside the house and entered it without taking any precaution. He did not emerge out after that. On coming to know of the cleaner entering the sewer line, MC junior engineeer   rushed to the spot and jumped into the manhole to rescue Balram, after covering his face with a handkerchief and tying a water piper around his waist.
 
 However, he could not save the worker and came out with his body. Attempts to resuscitate Balram went in vain. The MC has recommended an FIR against the house owner who hired Balram. MC superintending engineer (operations and maintenance cell) Rajinder Singh said the owner of the house had not informed the MC before making cleaner enter the sewerage system. “There are poisonous gases there. Precaution were neccessary,” he said. “Moreover, private sanitation employees are not authorised to clean sewerage.” 
 
 Kamaljit, the junior engineer who jumped into the sewerage system to save the cleaner, said he tried to save the man, but could not. “I was in there for 45 seconds and managed to pull him out. However, it was too late by then,” he said.
 
 There was no information about the owner of the house at the time this story was filed. The body has been sent to the civil hospital for the postmortem.
 
 JE saved 2 lives last year
 
 MC junior engineer Kamaljit Singh, who jumped into to save the life of a sewer cleaner on Tuesday, has risked his life earlier too. In 2017, he had jumped into a sewer line on Nirankari Street to pull out two sewermen. While one had died, one of them had survived. 
 
 TRAGIC ENDS
 
 December 2017 | Two labourers died of asphyxiation while cleaning the sewerage of a hotel on Dugri Road; three others were hospitalised
 
 September 2016 | Two sewermen were asphyxiated by poisonous gases while cleaning a sewer line at Nirankari Mohalla, Millar Ganj 
 
 January 2014 | A sewerman, Surinder  , died due to asphyxiation in  , near   
 
 July 2013 | A sewerman lost his life while cleaning a sewer lines at Focal Point Phase 5 
 
 November 2012 | Naresh Kumar, a sewerman working with the municipal corporation, died of asphyxiation while his co-worker Shiv Kumar, a contractual employee, was hospitalised
 
 
