 kidhar hai, LB Nagar kidhar hai? Brett Lee idhar aake, Telangana mein, humare ghar me bait kar chicken curry khaaye, khaana-peena bahut khushi se khaaye... This was very… samaj nahi aa raha kaise bolu....!?” gushes 43-year-old   Raju, choking with emotion, even as he smiles. His wife, Durga, pats his shoulder, as he gets overwhelmed. “World mein kisi ko bhi pucho Brett Lee kaun hai, vo janta.utna bada aadmni 
idhar aaya,” he continues, casting a glance at the modest living room of his two-bedroom house. 
 
 It is in this very room that Janardhan, who is known as ‘IPL uncle’ in his locality, broke bread with Brett Lee, when the latter sprang a surprise on him on Saturday.
 For the 43-year-old, that moment was a vindication of his decade-long, religious fanboying of Team Hyderabad in the IPL. Since 2008, every IPL season would see Janardhan transform from your regular office-goer to a “crazy fan boy” who splashes himself with dollops of body paint and waves the home team’s flag enthusiastically. “Call me crazy, but this has been a ritual for the past 10 years. Initially, my two children used to help me deck up for the matches by painting my body in the home team’s colours. With paint on my body, I drive shirtless to the stadium on my scooter. Once, I even went as batman,” says Janardhan, eyes twinkling with pride.
 
 This year, Janardhan took things a notch ahead and hired a professional body painter to get the look right ahead of each of the matches Team Hyderabad played on home turf. It might all look like fun, but it’s an expensive passion, admits Durga. “We easily incur a cost of `2000 for every match, because the paints, tickets, travel expenses, and charges for the painter work up to that much. But it’s his passion; it gives him so much joy, so we all encourage him,” she adds.
 
 It’s not just the money; the whole process of transforming into a walking-talking ‘billboard’ for the   is a time-consuming task. “It takes me a good three hours to get ready,” Janardhan warns us, as he invites us to come have a look. A quick shower later, Janardhan is ready to stand still, as his artist friend,  , begins the work. A thick layer of base coat in bright yellow is applied on his face, arms and torso using a sponge. And then come the detailing, which transforms him into a veritable ‘Eagle’ the mascot of Team Hyderabad. He stands through it all patiently, and then strikes a few poses for our shutterbug. 
 “When I head out on my scooter dressed like this, many people stop me for selfies and cheer for me. In fact, the staff at the stadium also recognise me now,” says Janardhan, beaming. 
 Taking the paint off is an equally tedious process. “Scrubbing it all off takes another three hours; so the whole exercise is a day-long process,” he says. Clearly, he doesn’t seem to mind it at all. Spreading joy and rooting for Hyderabad all he ever wants. “I’ve become a mini celebrity in the process; that’s a bonus,” he chuckles.
 
 While Janardhan’s ultimate aim is to be recognised by Sun Risers Hyderabad as their ‘official fan’, for his son, Sunny, named after Sunil Gavaskar, his dad is already a hero. “My dad got Brett Lee home! What more could I ask for! He even signed my bat. I’ve even taken lots of pictures to show my friends that he sat right here and ate from our plates! If not for dad, this would not have been possible,” says Sunny.
 
 
 
