CHANDIGARH: In a bid to provide the UT municipal corporation with financial assistance, the French government has asked the civic body to prepare a detailed report on how it plans to provide the city with 24x7 water supply.

 The ambassador of France to India, Alexandre Ziegler, on Wednesday visited Chandigarh to discuss the projects under smart city. The officials of the Chandigarh administration, along with   and his collegues, held a special meeting with municipal commissioner   and his team to discuss the water supply project.
 
 The exact financial estimate of the project is yet to come, but sources have revealed that the project cost could exceed Rs 500-crore mark.
 
 The move has come at a time when project management consultant of the smart city has already designed and prepared the first 24x7 water supply project plan for  . The project plan is waiting for an approval from the smart city board.
 
 “A tender will be floated for the project. It will be the first 24x7 water supply project that would cater to such a wide area in the city. Manimajra has a population of over 3 lakh people. The exact financial expenditure of this project is yet to come, but as per initial estimates, the project would cost around Rs 70 crore,” sources revealed.
 
 The civic body has already prepared a consolidated report, but now plans to expand the same with some add-ons.
 
 “The detailed report will have information about the pipelines, detailed survey of each area of the city, machinery, upgradation of the old infrastructure, etc,” sources said.
 
 Water woes
 
 At present, Chandigarh receives 80 millions of gallons per day (MGD), out of which around 60 MGD comes from the   canal through   while the rest 20 MGD from tubewells. The city as of now has a shortage of water supply as demand for water increases to 120 to 130 MGD in summer. The project to bring more 40 MGD water from Bhakra canal is underway. The project is being carried out by Chandigarh administration and the Punjab government. Out of this 40 MGD, 29 MGD water would come to the city, 3 MGD each would go to   and Chandimandir, and 5 MGD would go to Mohali.
 
 
