KANYAKUMARI: About 360 people including five DMK and   MLAs were detained by the police for picketing the district collectorate at Nagercoil to show their protest against the establishment of the proposed international container transhipment terminal (ICTT) at   near Kanyakumari. Nearly 2,000 police personnel were deployed to prevent protesters from reaching the collectorate after permission was denied for the protest.

 Police had erected temporary check posts at 34 approach roads to Nagercoil. Buses from coastal villages to the town were also diverted. 
 
 Thousands of protesters staged demonstrations at 11 places across the district including Colachel, Arockiapuram, Chunkankadai, Kanyakumari and Suchindram to condemn the police for not allowing them to proceed to Nagercoil.
 
 At  , police released villagers detained earlier in the day following protests to release them. While thousands of people were expected to take part in the protest, efforts taken by the police reduced the strength to a few hundred.
 
  Shops were closed and the main gate of the collectorate was also closed.
 
 There was high drama near the collectorate as protesters pushed away the barricades and tried to barge inside. They staged a demonstration in front of the collectorate for about an hour and were detained by the police. 
 
 DMK MLAs N Suresh Rajan (Nagercoil) and T Mano Thangaraj (Padmanabhapuram) and Congress MLAs J G Prince (Colachel) and S   also took part in the protest and were arrested. All of them were taken to a marriage hall and released in the evening. 
 
 MLAs Prince and Mano Thangaraj condemned the government for using the police to curb protests against the schemes of the government that are against the interest of the people.
 
 Inspector general of police for South Zone Shailesh Kumar Yadav and deputy inspector general of police for Tirunelveli range and Tirunelveli city police commissioner Kapil Kumar Saratkar supervised the security arrangements. 
 
 Three superintendents of police and 25 officers in the rank of deputy superintendent of police were also engaged in the security arrangements.
 
 The protest call was given by the DMK stressing on three demands including a commercial port to be established at Colachel insteadd of the ICTT and adequate compensation to be disbursed to the victims of cyclone Ockhi.
 
 
