NEW DELHI: People will soon be able to get birth/death certificates, trade and health licences and other online   in their own wards as the municipal corporations have decided to set up outposts at local   cafes, computer centres and documentation centres for the purpose. This step is being seen to be replication of the   delivery of services mooted by the AAP-led Delhi government.

  Delhi Municipal   has already launched the scheme by inviting cyber cafes for registration. Recently, while announcing the new mayors, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said that the focus of the new team this year would be on delivery of civic services at citizens’ doorsteps under ‘MCD Aapke Dwar’ scheme.
 
 A senior official of east corporation overseeing the implementation of the scheme said, “We have the largest number of unauthorised colonies and JJ clusters. Around 45 lakh residents are not economically well off or computer savvy and we noticed that they are not able to benefit from the online services. Besides, citizens are also not familiar with using online applications and payment gateways. This gap will be filled by these centres.”
 
 The 64 wards of east corporation are divided in two zones — Shahdara North and South. Mayor Neema Bhagat said that each ward will have at least 3-4 such centres. “People will not have to waste time and money on transportation to visit the zonal headquarters for getting work done. Trained staff at the centres will help residents fill forms, upload documents, make online payment as well as get certificate copies,” she added.
 
 The doorstep centres will have to put the boards of east corporation listing services related to registration of birth/death certificates, general trade licence, health trade licence, factory licence, veterinary trade licence and e-mutation being offered there.
 
 “Citizens will not be charged more than Rs 250 for new licences, Rs 150 for licence renewal and Rs 50 for birth and death certificates,” the official added.
 
 Bhagat said that no additional funds will be required by the cash-strapped civic body for implementation of the scheme. Instead, it will help increase revenue by bringing in more people to register for licences.
 
 A BJP functionary said that MCD Aapke Dwar teams comprising senior officials, commissioner, mayor and leader of house will visit localities to sort out local issues. Two such outreach events have already been organised.
 
 
