NAGPUR: Stating that the environment today is more challenging than it ever was, the director of   (CSIR),   has stressed on the need for a multi-disciplinary approach to address problems.

 On vehicular emission of fossil fuels, Sahni said that all expert bodies like the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri), energy institutes, pollution control boards, experts of chemistry, polymer science and other concerned disciplines should collaborate to find solutions. 
 
 Sahni was addressing the scientists on Sunday evening during the diamond jubilee foundation day celebrations of Neeri. As reported by TOI, the CSIR has adopted a new theme-based approach to collaborate different technologies pan-India. The council, which has 38 labs across the country, has formulated eight themes which include multiple labs and their scientists specializing in different areas. Neeri is the coordinator for theme of Ecology, environment, earth, ocean sciences and water.
 
 Stepping into its 61st year, the institute has set four major environmental challenges that needs to be addressed. Neeri director   stated that as many as 96 cities in the country are not meeting the norms of the Central Pollution Control Board ( ) when it comes to air pollution. “Air pollution, climate change and rejuvenation of rivers and water bodies will be the focus areas,” said Kumar. 
 
 Pointing out that India needs to spend around Rs8,000 crore for solid waste management (as per data available), Kumar said that untreated municipal solid waste continues to be a problem in all corners of the country. “As environmental challenges are becoming more complex, we will be using data analytics and information technology,” said Kumar. 
 
 Highlighting that Neeri’s percentage of transforming patents to fields is 75-80, Kumar said that the institute will now focus more on demand-based technology. “After consulting experts and preparing SOPs, we have de-listed many technologies which were not relevant,” he added.
 
 On Sunday, Sahni inaugurated the a technology park at Neeri headquarters. He also inaugurated a nullah treatment demonstration unit which uses a combination of technologies for reviving drains. 
 
 
