COIMBATORE: A city-based activist has filed a contempt petition in the   against IAS officials who granted permission to erect arches and structures on roads during the MGR centenary function in Coimbatore. K Raghupathy, a software engineer, was killed on November 25, 2017 when his bike rammed an arch erected by   workers. Action has been sought against additional chief secretary to the government Niranjan Mardi, Rajeev Ranjan and   and also against the collector T N Hariharan and corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan.

 Daniel Jesudas, in his petition, sought stringent action against officials who indulged in an act of contempt. “We would indeed think that if a high officer indulges in an act of contempt, he deserves to be punished more rigorously, so that nobody would violate the court’s order. May we also say that a public officer, being a part of the government, has a higher obligation than an ordinary citizen to advance the cause of public interest, which requires maintenance of rule of law, to protect which contemnors are punished,” he said.
 
 The petition was filed in the first week of January and will be heard by the court mid-February, said Daniel. Notices will be issued to the officials concerned. 
 
 The petition filed by lawyer Satya Mitra Garg recalls the Supreme Court order dated Septemebr 29, 2009 and January 18, 2013, which said no common man’s life should be endangered or jeopardised by the installation of illegal structures or statues in the middle or along the public roads causing obstructions and hindrances to the traffic movement. “This fear of the court came true in Coimbatore as the 30-year-old lost his life because the officials did not follow their order,” said Daniel.
 
 Lawyer Satya Mitra Garg, who filed the petition, said that as per the court order, state governments cannot grant permission for any constructions of statues or any structures on public roads, pavements, sideways and other public utility places except installation of high mast lights, street lights or construction relating to electrification, traffic toll or for the development and beautification of the streets, highways roads and relating to public utilities and facilities. “The court has in the past, in 1995, punished government officials for contempt,” said a lawyer.
 
 The petition also requested the court to direct the government of Tamil Nadu to strictly adhere to the directions and orders passed by the court and pay adequate compensation to the victim’s family for the act of contempt in the interest of justice.
 
 K Raghupathy, a techie from the US, was on his way to the bus stand when his bike hit the arch and he fell off the bike. He was run over by a truck and died on the spot. The arch had been erected near the Coimbatore Medical College junction on Avinashhi Road.
 
 
