CHANDIGARH: With the advertisement for the post of new vice-chancellor (VC) of Panjab University (PU) to be released by the end of this month, the deadline for receiving the applications for the post is likely to be April 30, said top sources. Moreover, the sources said the search committee is likely to be constituted anytime soon. 

 “The advertisement will be out in the coming week and the deadline of receiving the applications is likely to be April 30 because if it is delayed the committee won’t have enough time to screen the applications,” said a top official. This would be the first time when the post of the VC of PU would be advertised.
 
 Moreover, the chancellor office is likely to follow the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) regulations to advertise the post of the new VC of PU. 
 
 This was the discussed in a meeting held at the VP’s secretariat in New Delhi where joint secretaries, secretaries were also present on March 23. The PU registrar Col G S   (retd) has already submitted the draft for advertisement. The chancellor’s office had sent a communication to the registrar office on March 19 asking the registrar to send a draft to his office about the advertising and appointing procedure of the new VC as per the PU calendar. 
 
 The major difference between following the MHRD regulations and PU calendar is the specification of age as it has not been specified in the latter. The calendar says that the chancellor can appoint anybody for the term of three years and the extension can be given to the VC by the chancellor as per his discretion. However, the MHRD says that the candidates who are applying as on date should be below 60 years of ago. Moreover, as per MHRD, 10 years of professorship is a qualification which is required to become the VC of a university. Such norms are not mentioned in the PU calendar. 
 
 Interestingly, the corridors of the university are abuzz with the prominent names that could be in the fray to be the next VC of the the university. 
 
 Among the emerging names are  , physicist from University of Rajasthan, who was part of a team of Indian scientists to develop one of the Photon Multiplicity Detectors (PMDs) used in the  . 
 
 Moreover, from the Panjab University, the name of former dean university instructions (DUI) Prof   is being speculated for the new VC. Other names who could be the front runners for the VC post includes the name of  , VC of Central university of Punjab, Bhatinda and A D N  , former VC of the Himachal Pradesh University.
 
 
