Visakhapatnam: Young adults in the age bracket of 19 years to 25 years are fast falling prey to hair problems.

 Premature greying, male pattern baldness are now common among the masses. Besides genetic factors, stressful lifestyles, certain illnesses, drugs, nutritional deficiencies, hair styling, exposure to harmful chemicals, pollution and other environmental conditions are playing a key role in this trend fast catching on among youngsters, say city doctors.
 
 Hair is an organ of not just aesthetic importance but it also protects the skin from external factors — weather and foreign particles. Hair helps regulate body temperature and facilitates the evaporation of perspiration. Hair is described as a protein filament that grows from follicles or sacs found on the dermis or skin.
 
 Dr Palakurthi Radha Rani, dermatologist and hair transplant surgeon from Radha International Institute of Hair Transplant, said, “Nine out of 10 patients turning up at our clinic are youngsters in their early and mid-20s. Most cases are linked to genetic causes but certain external factors aggravate the issue. The age bracket for   and premature greying has come down to 20s and 30s. In children too, premature greying is noticeable. This is mostly due to protein deficiency.”
 
 Speaking on non-genetic factors responsible for hair loss and early balding, Dr Radha said, “Some prolonged illnesses, excessive stress, certain medication, hair styling especially permanent straightening using chemicals, frequent blow drying and cosmetics cause mechanical trauma to the hair and adversely affect hair quality. If one is genetically prone to balding, the problem gets aggravated at an early age.”
 
 In women, hair fall is connected to factors such as ovarian cyst, anaemia, hypothyroidism, post-delivery, stress, prolonged illness and medication, crash dieting, bariatric surgery. A strong family history of vitamin B12 deficiency and hypothyroidism are strongly associated with premature greying. It may also be related to other factors causing oxidative stress, such as emotional stress, alcohol consumption, and chronic diseases in genetically predisposed men and women, added the dermatologist.
 
 Also, environmental pollutants and extremes of weather and humidity, faulty diet and lifestyle including smoking have also been linked to hair loss and premature greying, although this has not yet been proven. 
 
 “Hair loss, balding, dandruff, receding hairline and a variety of other hair concerns could arise due to hereditary factors, stressful lifestyles, faulty diets, rising levels of pollution, extreme weather conditions, and exposure to harmful chemicals,” said noted dermatologist Dr SV Satyaprasad.
 
 Dermatologists say hair care methods and transplantation procedures may be the saviours for the ones plagued by hair problems. The main method to prevent hair fall lies in a balanced and nutritious diet that maintains haemoglobin, contains protein, calcium, iron, anti-oxidants and micro nutrients. Chemical fertilizer-free, locally available organic fruits, vegetables and anti-oxidant rich colourful vegetables should be preferred rather than toxic imported ones, as these would not only help minimise hair fall but would also add sheen and glow to the hair.
 
 “Hair grows from the root of the head, which is metabolically very active and follows a growth cycle. Therefore, nutrition is very important. It is necessary to eat green leafy vegetables, minimise intake of red meat. Any drastic dieting or starvation should be avoided as these would cause nutrient deficiency and lead to hair fall. Proper sleep and limiting stress is essential,” said Dr Satyaprasad.
 
 “It’s also recommended to protect hair from the direct sun by covering the head with cap or a scarf as excess heat can cause breakage. Salty sea air, especially in places like Vizag can cause salt deposition leading to roughness or fizziness of hair,” added the dermatologist.
 
 
