Trichy: A breakthrough has been made in realising the long-pending dream of Palpannai and Tiruverumbur residents to get service road facility on a key stretch of National Highways 67 connecting Trichy and Thanjavur districts. 

 Bowing to pressure from the local people, the state government seems to have managed to persuade National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to build a 45-metre-wide service lane in the first phase to be later expanded to 60 metres.
 
 The Tamil Nadu government’s revision of width of the service road from 60 metres to 45 metres was not readily accepted by NHAI thereby leading to the stalling of works. NHAI made the climbdown at a review meeting held here on Monday attended by stakeholders including Member of Parliament P Kumar representing Trichy constituency, local people and officials from NHAI Thanjavur Project Implementation unit (PIU). 
 
 The state government had raised the issue seeking the service road on NH67 stretch with the ministry of road transport and highways in November last year. The government suggested that the NHAI go with 45-metre service lane for the 14.5 km stretch of NH67 left without the facility and later expand the same to 60 metres width. “We want the stakeholder departments to be transparent in fulfilling our demand. As accidents are recurring on the Palpannai - Thuvakudi stretch of NH67, we badly needed a service road to ensure safety of commuters,” S Subramanian, chief organiser, Federation for Retrieval of Trichy-Palpannai-Thuvakkudi Service Road, said.
 
 NHAI sources said that with the state and Union governments settling for 45-metre-wide service road preliminarily, the construction works of service road on about 14.5km stretch could be taken up as soon as the state government completed the land acquisition process. “There is no need to initiate new tenders for laying the pending service road in a stretch of NH67. As soon as we are handed over the required land, we will take up the construction works,” a senior official with NHAI said. The pace of acquiring the required land would decide whether the service road would materialise this year, that is almost six years after the Trichy-Thanjavur stretch of NH 67 was completed.
 
 
