LUDHIANA: A local court has sentenced a person to life imprisonment after finding him guilty for the murder of his wife. The court of additional sessions judge   also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 on the convict. On September 20, 2015,   Police had arrested Chandan Kumar Shah, a native of Bhagalpur in Bihar, who resided in Master Colony in Jamalpur for murder of his wife Rajmani Kumari. 

 As per prosecution, the complainant Joginder Kumar of Bachan Nagar, Kuliawal, had complained to the police that the accused Chandan Kumar, who used to reside on the second floor of a three-storeyed building in the area along with his wife Rajmani and children had killed his wife. 
 
 On the ground floor, there are shops and the first and second floors were on rent.
 
 On September 20, at around 5 pm, the complainant went to collect rent and to look after the rented rooms. 
 
 When he was going upstairs, the complainant saw Chandan Kumar coming down from the staircase. He saw Chandan Kumar had a blood smeared knife with him. 
 
 He was nervous and seemed to be in a hurry. In the meantime, another tenant, also came there. Suspecting something fishy, they reached the second floor and saw that the door of the room of Chandan Kumar was open. Inside the room, they saw Rajmani Kumari lying in a pool of blood. She was in a critical condition. They soon called an ambulance. She was taken to the civil hospital where doctor checked and told that she had died. 
 
 It also came out that there was a dispute between Chandan Kumar and Rajmani Kumari and neighbours knew about it. The prosecution added that the accused Chandan Kumar also suspected his wife of infidelity, which gave him the reason to kill her. There were several injuries on Rajmani's body too. Police had later arrested the accused and produced a challan against him in the court. 
 
 During the trial of the case, the accused pleaded innocence and not guilty. But the the additional public prosecutor for the state sought strict punishment for the accused on the basis of prosecution evidence including the statement of witnesses, the complainant, Rajesh Kumar and the medical evidence. Taking on record the arguements and evidence, the cour held the accused guilty and sentenced his life imprisonment. 
 
 
