UDHAGAMANDALAM: A function held to celebrate the sesquicentennial of the Ooty Government Headquarters Hospital at the Resource Centre for Tribal Culture (RCTC) on Saturday saw the reunion of retired doctors and support staff.

 Over 100 recipients, including doctors, nurses and support staff were felicitated at the function. Patrons such as Rotary Club, Lions Club and   were also honoured.
 
 Though it traces its history way back to 1829, the hospital became full-fledged only in 1867 with a new building, the present heritage block, built at the cost of around Rs 22,000 contributed by the public and the government. It was then named as Bartholomew Hospital. The hospital should have celebrated its 150th anniversary last year itself. But, it was postponed due to quality control programmes.
 
 Started as an Army hospital with 14 beds, the facility saw many changes in administration before it could be taken over by the government in 1920. The hospital, one of the oldest in the state, is housed in a heritage building. Additional constructions took place in recent years. A 50-year-old tribal ward was demolished recently.
 
 Director of the Nilgiris Documentation Centre Dharmalingam Venugopal narrated the history of the hospital right from 1829. “Ooty GH is a rare case of charity hospital from many quarters. Though many initiatives were executed successfully during the colonial period, it is because of the local support what it has become today,” he said.
 
 Convener of INTACH-Nilgiris chapter   made an appeal for installing a heritage board on the hospital premises. “INTACH will sponsor for the heritage board and a history book on the British era hospital if NDC come forward,” she told TOI.
 
 Dr PK Raman said, “The facilities the Ooty GH provides is no less than any private hospital. The hospital, presently ranked 6th, should strive to reach the first place in the state.” 
 
 Former chairman of the atomic energy commission   and joint director of health services   handed over the mementos.
 
 
