AHMEDABAD: If a number of arterial roads of the city are witnessing construction of   lines in full swing, these arteries are getting shrunk further by the vehicles parked on sides of these roads, affecting health of the city’s traffic. 

 The city police have started identifying the trouble spots and have also initiated registering complaints for illegal parking in some instances but experts believe that it’s a long way to go before the city can find answer to its parking woes.   has initiated a drive against buildings flouting parking norms whereas traffic branch is towing away over 150 cars on a daily basis for improper parking.
 
  
  
 
 Traffic branch officials said that the drive is on to identify trouble spots and take regular action to deter citizens from clogging city streets. 
 
 “The towing cranes have been given two responsibilities — to identify the on-the-road parking near commercial or residential buildings that hinders traffic flow and to identify parking within 50 metres of crossroads. Compared to eastern city parts, which report more cases of two-wheelers, western city parts such as Satellite, Anandnagar, Vastrapur, Navrangpura and SG Road report higher cases of illegal parking of four-wheelers,” said a senior traffic branch official.
 
 Anuj  , director of city-based  , said that the issue can only be addressed with a parking model for the entire city. It’s due ever since the introduction of BRTS in the city as there is a transport system but no matching parking space that can encourage citizens to park their vehicles and take the bus. With proposed Metro in the mix, the situation would be more complicated,” he said.
 
 “In many cities abroad, on-the-road parking is five to 10 times costlier than the parking facilities. Right now, we are managing the buildings, penalizing them for not providing parking or freeing up the space. But if we monetize the streets, the demand for free parking will automatically increase. Even if we delay it, ultimately we have to take action to free up our roads,” said Malhotra, adding that the strategy has worked in states such as   and Kashmir.
 
 Amit Khatri, a road safety expert, said that the need of the hour is to revisit the parking norms. “In many older residential and commercial buildings, there is simply no provision for a high number of cars, resulting in spilling of the vehicles on the road,” he said.
 
 Experts also pointed at the possibility of mapping all the zones where on-the-road parking can be allowed with parking charge on the model of CG Road. “With the help of technology, one can even consider booking the spot in advance - a few prototype of such parking applications have already been developed. The need of the hour is to employ technology for the parking solution. With the city adding about 700 vehicles on a daily basis, it will not be an easy one,” said a city-based expert. 
 
 
