COIMBATORE: Though it was nearly four decades ago that the first water meters were installed in the city, the city corporation has so far covered only 30% of the households.

 The civic body claims to have provided a total of 2.70 lakh water connections in the old city area that covers 60 wards. Another 1.45 lakh connections were provided to the added areas in the last five years, corporation officials said. But, social activists and residents said that half of the meters are not functional.
 
 Currently, clerks of the civic body visit the other households and take an average of the quantum of water consumed over a few months and collect nominal charge. “Nobody knows the exact water consumption as it is not metered at all,” said a resident.
 
 As per the Government of India, the local bodies should meter the water and ensure that waste is reduced to 20%. “But currently, more than 40% of the water is getting leaked, which is a huge revenue loss to the government,” said an official.
 
 Not a single house in   — an added area in the city — has water meters, said  , a resident. “We pay Rs 360 per year as water supply charges,” he said. If the civic body makes it mandatory, the residents would buy the meters themselves and install them, he said. “We are ready to invest in good water meters. But, the civic body needs to have an intent. Instead of them buying low-quality water meters that become dysfunctional within a few weeks, we are ready to spend our money on good quality meters,” he told TOI.
 
 A senior water supply engineer, however, contested these numbers and said nearly 70% of the city had been provided with water supply connections. “It is true that the water meters do not function. But the meters have been installed in the homes,” he said.
 
 But, activists said that though the 60 wards in old city have water meters, half of them are non-functional.
 
 Another engineer said that under the Vadavalli-Kavundampalayam Water Supply Scheme and the Added Areas Water Supply Improvement Scheme, more than eight added-areas will have an improved water supply distribution network and water meters will be installed. “In the city’s core area, under the 24x7 water supply scheme, smart meters will be installed,” said an official.
 
 The official also added that in the past two years, water meters were installed for every new water connection. “The numbers are definitely higher now,” said an official stating that at least 70% will be covered. 
 
 Meanwhile, urban experts stressed that more than the metering of water consumption, water leakage has to be metered. 
 
 “That is called non-revenue water. The entire water that is pumped gets leaked and more focus should be on stopping that. We have set up some pilot projects in   tank and also in ward 73 to meter water leakage and water consumption. This will soon be extended to all wards,” said a senior official.
 
 
