MUMBAI: The   on Wednesday targeted the state animal husbandry minister without naming him, alleging in the assembly that tenders for   to prevent   had still not been finalized and cleared though they had been invited seven times in nine months.   Ajit Pawar said the tender process had got cancelled every time because negotiations about the “commission” failed. Mahadev Jankar of Rashtriya Samaj Paksha is the animal husbandry minister. He was not present in the House when the allegations were made.

 The state has over 2 crore cows and buffaloes who have been deprived of the twin doses needed every year – in July-August and January-February. The department initially invited tenders in May 2017, while the last – seventh -- tender was floated in January 2018. No vaccination could hit milk and meat production capacity.
 
  
 
 Referring to a letter received by CM Devendra Fadnavis from Union agriculture minister Radha Mohan Singh, minister of state for animal husbandry Arjun Khotkar said foot-and-mouth disease may lead to a loss of Rs20,000 crore for the country in a year.
 
 Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil, opposition leader, alleged cattle had suffered due to non-availability of vaccine. NCP’s Ajit Pawar alleged, “A person senior than minister of state made demands which were not fulfilled by bidders during negotiations. That is the reason vaccine has not been purchased. This is a serious issue. On the one hand, PM Modi says ‘Na khaugna na khane dunga’, while here is a different situation in the state ministry.”
 
 Khotkar clarified the minister never deals with the tender process and assured legislators saying, “A high-level inquiry will be conducted by the chief secretary as even after the CM’s instructions, no action has been taken by the department.” He said CM had in the winter session ordered officials to take steps to avoid delay in purchase of vaccine. Pawar asked, “CS is junior to the minister. So how can a junior inquire into his senior’s (actions)? The inquiry should be conducted by a retired HC judge.”
 
 Finally, Vinod Tawde, minister in-charge of parliamentary affairs requested the speaker to keep the calling attention motion aside. “It is a serious issue, and the CM is not in town. The CM will reply,” he said.
 
 
