LUCKNOW: Less than a week after BJP's defeat in Gorakhpur and Phulpur bypolls, the party's ally in Uttar Pradesh, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party ( ) chief OP Rajbhar, announced on Monday that he would not mind backing the opposition candidate for the 10th   seat from the state. He cited "year-long humiliation" by BJP as the reason for contemplating support to the BSP candidate, who already has the backing of SP and Congress. 

 BJP rushed its troubleshooter, cabinet minister  , to Rajbhar's residence on Monday to placate him but he refused to meet him or state president Mahendra Nath Pandey.
 
 Rajbhar, who is also a cabinet minister in the   government, said he was furious with the "big brother" attitude of BJP, which had made his party a non-player in both urban local bodies polls held last year as well as the just concluded Lok Sabha byelections.
 
 He said SBSP's votebank, the Rajbhars, were agitated as the state government was yet to arrive at a formula to include them in a sub-category of denotified tribe (DNT) in the other backward classes (OBCs) with a three per cent fixed quota in government jobs.
 
 "When they needed OBC support in 2017, they rushed to me to consolidate their votebank. But later, neither was I consulted in civic polls nor during the Lok Sabha bypolls. As a result, we fought civic elections on our own and salvaged our position by victories in 35 nagar panchayat and 126 corporators," said Rajbhar.
 
 He said he could forget the humiliation in the two elections, "but I am yet to be approached by any BJP minister or MLA on even Rajya Sabha nominations. That was the last nail in the coffin".
 
 "Though none of the three opposition parties (SP, BSP and Congress) have approached me, I may consider their request if the doors with the BJP on consultations for the March 23 Rajya Sabha elections are closed," Rajbhar added.
 
 The SBSP chief alleged that at a rally in Ghazipur recently, Union minister Manoj Sinha did not stop his party worker when he described Rajbhar as a "pimp".
 
 "Their focus is on temples or encounters. Their cops killed a man   who was shown as a criminal, carrying a bounty of Rs 50,000 bounty, with involvement in a small theft just a week before his encounter," he said.
 
 BJP, which has 312 MLAs, has claimed it has 27 spare MLAs (including 13 from Apna Dal and four from SBSP) and will get 10 more votes to ensure that BSP-SP-Congress candidate does not win.
 
 BSP has 19 MLAs and its candidate needs support of 18 more MLAs to win the Rajya Sabha seat.
 
 
