Amaravati/Hyderabad: The   Group, which owns and operates the Emirates airlines, is likely to invest Rs 30,000 crore in Andhra Pradesh, under a MoU signed with the Andhra Pradesh Economic Development Board (APEDB) in Dubai on Thursday to establish a framework for collaboration to support and invest in the development of AP’s aviation sector.

 The MoU includes the setting up a Maintenance Repair and Overhaul (MRO) facility, an aviation training centre and a manufacturing unit of in-flight consumables in AP, which are together expected to bring in an investment of almost Rs 30,000 crore. The MoU was signed by Sheikh Ahmed Bin Saeed Al Maktoum, chairman and chief executive, Emirates Airline & Group, and APEDB CEO Jasti Krishna Kishore in the presence of AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, who was in Dubai to drum up investments from UAE. According to a government press release, Naidu began his day in Dubai with a meeting with executives of the agrifood player Phoenix group, who informed the CM that they are focusing extensively on the Indian market. The CM was told by the Phoenix group officials that they would start a rice mill and food processing plant works as proposed earlier in the month of April. Naidu also asked the Phoenix group to explore locations for peanut farming and manufacturing of peanut butter in Anantapur.
 
 Later, in his meeting with Sheikh Al Maktoum, Naidu recalled how he was instrumental in the expansion of Emirates Airlines in India by persuading the flag-carrier of Dubai to operate an Emirates flight from Hyderabad, now the capital of Telangana. The Emirates group expressed keen interest in operating in Amaravati and other parts of AP once regulations are relaxed by the central government. The number of seats from India for flights to UAE are limited by the agreement with the Indian government and needs to be revised, Emirates officials said. Naidu invited Sheikh Ahmed to Amaravati and explore the possibility of building and operating airports and start a joint venture in aviation with the government. Naidu and the accompanying delegation from AP were taken around 25,000 sft Emirates' Network Control Centre that monitors all their stations worldwide, and air traffic in real time. The centre tracks weather conditions and their impact on flight schedules, and also comprises a Crisis Management Centre that is designed to address emergencies. He asked officials of DP World, which operates 78 marine and inland terminals in 40 countries, to set up a SEZ in AP. The group provides maritime services, logistics and ancillary services. Sharaf group chairman, Sultan Ahmed Bin Sulayem, said that Indian ports must remove bottlenecks in the supply chain and build logistics and industrial parks. “Ports all over the world grew because of these facilities”, he said. Naidu asked them to explore three suitable locations to establish logistics parks, and take a decision in three months. 
 
 The release said Naidu was informed that executives from the Sharaf group have already visited AP to explore investment opportunities and have seen some land parcels for a food processing zone.
 
 Another bilateral meeting was held with Mohammed Ahmed Al Zarooni, director general, Dubai Airport Free Zone Authority (DAFZA), vice chairman and CEO of Dubai Silicon Oasis Authority (DSOA) and director of Dubai Aerospace Enterprise (DAE).
 
 Naidu also met Dixon Technologies chairman Sunil Vachnani, who informed the CM they currently have an electronic goods business in Tirupati which deals in fridges, washing machines, televisions.
 
 Vachnani also told Naidu that Dixon Technologies currently has 2 lakh sft factory in Tirupati that already employs around 500 people with plans to increase it to 2000 people.
 
 
