KOCHI: No industry must be set up without   said the United Nations Environment executive director Erik   referring to the Sterlite protest in  .

 
 “We are extremely sorry for the loss of life in Tamil Nadu. This should not happen. The police should not use sharp ammunition. This is sad and worrying. We hope that a solution can be found,” said Solheim, who expressed his condolences to the victims while speaking at   in Kochi on Saturday.
 
 He said public consultation is central to any major infrastructure project and that if there is discontent against Vedanta's Sterlite copper plant, then it needs to be taken into consideration.
 
 During the event, he said he would be meeting Prime Minister   and other ministers on June 5 in Delhi where he would discuss concerns regarding plastic pollution.
 
 “In the past, there was debate whether the nation should develop or should it take care of the earth. That was a false debate because we know now that we can do both,” he added.
 
 Solheim had visited Kochi to see the world’s first solar powered airport and said that he would look into recognizing this effort officially under the banner of the United Nations.
 
 “Let there be no doubt this is the future. I say this with confidence as last year was the first in human history where we got more solar energy in the global grid than oil, gas, coal and nuclear combined. This is a big airport which caters to around 10 million passengers. It was good to see that they are using the ground to grow vegetables. It is a good use of the taxpayers' money because now, solar energy is much cheaper than coal,” said Solheim, who added after his visit to Kerala he will also be visiting Andra Pradesh to see their unique farming practices.
 
 Cial managing director, VJ Kurian said, “It is a proud moment for the airport when a senior member of the United Nations views Cial as an exemplary project. During our meeting, we discussed the technicalities of the project and also prospects on partnership.”
 
 
