LUDHIANA: The 40-year-old man who was arrested for rape and murder of a six-year-old girl on Tuesday night has sought strictest punishment for himself, while claiming ignorance about the act that he committed in a drunken state.

 Police said the accused however has admitted that what he did was shameful and a heinous crime and he was ready to accept any punishment for that.
 
 The accused who worked with a catering service firm has told police that he was not able to recall how he killed the girl as he was not in his senses.
 
 On Wednesday morning, the body of a six-year-old girl was found merely 25m away from her house from a vacant plot in   area. There were injury marks on the body and the postmortem report confirmed rape and strangulation as the cause of death.
 
 The girl was last seen with the accused late on Tuesday evening. According to police, the accused in an inebriated state had allured the girl on the pretext of getting her a samosa. The girl’s family and police kept searching for the girl whole night and found her body the next morning.
 
 Suspecting his involvement, the residents had already locked the accused inside a go-down on Tuesday night while they were searching for the girl.
 
 On Thursday, the accused was produced before the court which sent him to the one-day police remand. When he was being taken to the court, the accused was heard saying, “I have done a shameful crime and I am ready for any punishment for it. But I don’t know how exactly it happened.”
 
 Asked if he knew the girl earlier, he said he just knew her name and had seen her playing outside her house, but he never spoke to her. The accused said he used to drink about half a bottle of liquor every day, but on that fateful day, he had consumed the entire bottle and was not in his senses.
 
 Inspector   who had been probing the case said ever since he was arrested, the accused had been seeking strictest punishment for himself.
 
 Meanwhile, additional deputy commissioner of police (IV)   said that while raping the girl, the accused stifled her neck so tightly that she could not even scream. After that he strangulated her, he added.
 
 
