THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The police department has decided to exclusively designate one police officer in each police station, who will be trained and would exclusively cater to the atrocities against children, in the wake of increasing   cases in the  .

 
 State police chief   said that the police official who would be of the rank of civil police officer, senior civil police officer or assistant sub-inspector, will be trained by the women and children department on matters relating to atrocities against children and the legal steps that can be taken when such matters come to them. “We have decided to appoint 500   in all the   across the state. We will be selecting the officials for each police station in the next seven days,” Behera said.
  
  
 According to the statistics with the state crime records bureau, the cases that are registered under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, are on the rise over the past few years. While the number of cases that were registered under Pocso Act in 2015 was 1,583, it increased to 2,122 in 2016 and 2,697 in 2017. In the first two months of 2018, 459 Pocso cases have been registered in the state, of which the highest number is in Thiruvananthapuram rural and Malappuram.
 
 The Juvenile Justice (care and protection of children) Act, 2015, demands that every police station should have a  . According to the section 107 of the Act, “in every police station, at least one officer, not below the rank of assistant sub-inspector with aptitude, appropriate training and orientation may be designated as the child welfare police officer to exclusively deal with children either as victims or perpetrators, in coordination with the police, voluntary and non-governmental organizations” 
 
 Behera said that the police were gearing up to equip itself to social policing by specialising on various aspects of social policing. “Social issues have been dominating state’s society of late. Unless specialised on these aspects, the police officers would lose their focus on these matters because of other routine affairs,” he said. 
 
 Police sources said that while most of the culprits in such cases are relatives of the victims, the age of the victims are usually under 14 years. Though Pocso cases are on the rise, the cases have a bad record of getting delayed before the matter is disposed of by the court. Under these circumstances, the police have decided to recommend the government to earmark the Pocso courts in the states as fast-track courts. 
 
 
