GHAZIABAD: When she woke up, she found herself alone at home. There was no one around. Her   should have been there, but where was she? She walked out to the balcony, but she was too short to look down. So, she pulled over a baby chair, her chair. She climbed on it and leaned over the 10th-floor   of her building.

 The guard standing downstairs, at Indirapuram’s  , heard a thud. 
 
 Four-year-old Myra lay sprawled, her face down. But the guards didn’t know then who she was.
 
 It was Monday, around 5.35pm. “Surender, a guard, who was on duty near F-tower heard a sound and rushed to the spot only to see a child lying with her face down,” said  , another guard.
 
 “He immediately flashed the message that a child has fallen down and I rushed to the spot,” added Choudhary. “I took the child in my arms and shook her, there was blood all over her face, head and chin. She did not respond,” Choudhary added.
 
 Surender by that time had grabbed a megaphone and was yelling, “Whose child is this?” “We had no idea who the child was and even the nearby residents who had gathered could not identify her.”
 
 Choudhary then quickly brought his Scooty and he along with Surender took her to nearby Shanti Gopal Hospital. “It was then that Surender identified the child and told me that the child lives in flat number F-1001 and he said he knew the father of the child,” said Choudhary.
 
 Myra’s parents were then informed but the doctors after examining Myra decalred her ‘brought dead’. Dr Anil Kumar, CMO of Shanti Gopal Hospital, said, “The girl was brought to the hospital at 5.50 pm, she had suffered trauma in scalp and internal bleeding, I suspect she was already dead.”
 
 Soon after, Myra’s father Manish Sachdeva and her mother arrived at the hospital. Manish deals in medical equipment and was away at work. Myra was home with her mother and 12-year-old sister Pari. But around 5pm, Myra’s mother had to go out for some work.
 
 “Myra was sleeping when her mother went out, leaving her in the care of her elder sister,” said a resident who did not wish to be named. “Pari was getting late for her  , so she bolted the door from outside and left, leaving Myra  ,” added the neighbour.
 
 Myra must have woken up and finding no one home dragged her baby chair to the balcony and stood over it. “She must have been looking over the balcony when she slipped and fell,” said a policeman. “The possibility of Myra slipping from the chair looks logical as she was wearing socks at the time of her death,” said the policeman.
 
 Myra’s parents and relatives were in a state of shock and did not wish to speak to the media. They refused for an autopsy to be conducted and in a statement to police said that it was an accident. Myra was cremated along Hindon river on Tuesday.
 
 
