It is not often that animals become one’s sole companions in life but that was the case with Dr Madan Mohan, who retired as the HOD of Pediatrics from Thrissur Medical College. During the last years of his life, he lived alone in his house at Kottayam with his pattippattalam as he called them, composed of two Indian dogs — Kunkan and Ponnu — and their posse of puppies. Unlike others who give away or even abandon the puppies born to their dogs,   kept them all, and had nearly 10 dogs at the same time in his house — Pandu, Gundumani, Chempan, Pathrikutty, Kalyani and Blacky among them. At one point, during an anti stray dog drive, Kunkan was poisoned to death, breaking Dr Mohan’s heart.

 For the same reason, it was his ardent wish to register a trust to take care of his own as well as other abandoned and homeless dogs. But a week before he could fulfil his dream, he passed away. “He had initiated the process and asked for my help in preparing the deed. I had written it for him too. But the next thing I heard was the news of his demise,” says Dr Biju, a veterinarian who was a friend of Dr Mohan during his last days. 
 
 Dr Mohan, who was also captained the Kerala Ranji Trophy cricket team, constantly faced issues from neighbours who were averse to having so many dogs in the neighbourhood but he never gave them away. “He could hardly walk during his last years owing to severe swelling and infection in his legs but he would make it a point to visit our dog shelter at Vaikkom, and spend hours there. ‘The kind of pleasure I get from being with the dogs here, I don’t get from anywhere else’, he would say,” says
 Dr Biju.
 
 Sadly, Dr Mohan’s beloved dogs are left orphaned today, a month after his passing. “It was his wish that they should be well cared for after his death. He also wanted his ‘dog family’ to be together, wherever they are. But unfortunately, his family does not wish to keep the dogs anymore and many of them have been given away to different people. The rest are in the house, fed temporarily by the household help but their fate remains uncertain,” says Dr Biju.
 
 
 
 
 
