PATNA: Altogether 170 students pursuing various academic programmes at the National Institute of Fashion Technology, Patna (NIFT-P) received their bachelor’s and master’s degrees from governor Satya Pal Malik at the 9th convocation ceremony on Sunday.

 
 The best academic performance awards were given to Astha Bhatia (master’s in fashion management studies), Priya Singh (fashion design), Riya Mehanti (textile design), Kshama Tripathi (fashion technology), Bhavana (fashion communication) and Ashwariya Gupta (fashion and lifestyle accessories). Shreya Yadav bagged the best academic award with community service, while Pritika Singh became the student of the year 2018. They received a cash prize of Rs11,000 each and citations.
 
 Vivek Kumar Singh, principal secretary to the governor and institute’s director Sanjay Shrivastava also distributed medals and degrees to the students.
 
 Addressing the students, Malik said, “Students should keep themselves abreast with the latest trends and come up with distinctive ideas for people from all walks of life.” He wished them the best in their future endeavours. 
 
 Expressing happiness for receiving student of the year award, Pritika said, “It was my continuous hard work and support of my mother that took me here. I participated in 34 different curricular activities throughout my course of study. Besides the maximum number of participation, I also tried to maintain the best score in my academics.” She belongs to Meerut and scored 10 CGPA in her final semester.
 
 Shreya, who hailed from Lucknow said, “It feels like all my hard works have finally paid off. I participated in a number of fests, including the inter-NIFT fests, and also organized various blood donation camps and events.” She was also the cultural secretary of NIFT-P for the year 2017.
 
 Astha from Delhi received gold medal for scoring 10 CGPA in her master’s programme. “I was very fascinated with fashion industry and now I will be following my dreams. I’ve already been placed in a Bangalore-based firm and want to have my own startup,” she said.
 
 
