BENGALURU: After having declared that it’s espousing the cause of ‘soft Hindutva’, the   government is vacillating over taking a decision on the communally sensitive   Datta Peetha dispute. 

 The Supreme Court had, on September 22, 2017, directed the state government to take a decision on the status of ownership of the shrine — where both Hindus and Muslims pray — on the basis of the Justice H N Nagamohan Das committee report, and apprise it of the same within four months. But the state government has chosen to defer any decision in the matter.
 
 “We wanted to apprise the Supreme Court about the government’s decision on January 15, but couldn’t do so due to lack of time,” said law minister  , who heads the cabinet sub-committee on Baba Budangiri Datta Peetha. “We will convene a meeting of the cabinet sub-committee to examine the findings of the Nagamohan Das committee report and then send it to the cabinet,” he added.
 
 Following the SC directive, the government formed a cabinet sub-committee to look into the matter. The panel, in turn, referred the matter to a three-member expert committee headed by Justice Nagamohan Das, which submitted its report to the government on December 4, 2017. “We finished our job within the given time frame. Now, it’s up to the government to take a decision. It can accept, reject or modify the report,” Das told TOI.
 
 Official sources said with elections round the corner, the government doesn’t want to touch the vexed issue that has remained unresolved for decades. 
 
 “The government does not want to take any decision as it wants the ambiguity to persist. If he is sincere about resolving the issue, Siddaramaiah has to show the political will and tell the Supreme Court his government’s decision,” said   legislator C T Ravi, who is spearheading the agitation of pro-Hindu activists.
 
 “The issue is sensitive and we have to tread cautiously. We had sent the Nagamohan Das report to the department of law and administration, seeking its opinion. Now that it has given its opinion, the procedure will follow,” said Jayachandra.
 
 Meanwhile, officials are preparing to move a fresh application in the SC seeking time. Senior counsel Basavaprabhu Patil, who is appearing for the government in the apex court, has been asked to seek more time. 
 
 “Technically, the government has time till January 22, as the Supreme Court had disposed of the case on September 22. In case no decision is made before that date, we may have to file an application before the court seeking more time,” Patil said.
 
 
