NEW DELHI: A 22-year-old man committed suicide after attacking a   he owed money to. The victim allegedly took the step as he was scared that he might get caught after his parents informed the cops about his whereabouts.

  got a call from the owner of a store in southeast Delhi’s  . The owner told cops that one of his employees, Rohit, had stabbed his mother and fled. While one team rushed to the store and took the woman to a hospital, another team contacted Rohit’s family members and informed them about the incident. They also told them to inform cops whenever   returned home.
 
 According to a senior police officer, Rohit had borrowed Rs 6,000 from his employer and the interest had risen up to Rs 40,000. He, however, refused to return the money as he did not have that much cash.
 
 On Wednesday, when the victim, Premlata   (55), was at her shop, Rohit approached her and attacked her, leaving her bleeding profusely. The woman was rushed to Safdurjung Hospital, where she is still being treated.
 
 Cops said that once Rohit reached his home, his mother informed the cops about it. When a police team reached Rohit’s room, it was found to be locked from inside. The door was broken open and Rohit was found hanging from the ceiling fan with his mother’s saree. He was immediately pulled down and taken to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead. 
 
 Police said that Rohit used to work as daily-wage employee with Gaba for the last year and half. He had not been going to work since the last three days, cops added.
 
 According to the police, the victim had shifted to Delhi with his parents and few years back so that they could make more money than they did in their village. He had borrowed cash from Gaba as he wanted to invest it somewhere. “When he failed to return the same, he attacked her, assuming that he could get away with it,” said a senior police officer.
 
  (southeast)   said that a case under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) of the IPC was registered at the Govindpuri police station and inquest proceedings in the suicide was being conducted.
 
 
