

 
 
 It is only in December that   took over as AICC president. He has been very busy with Karnataka election. I am sure once it is done with, Rahul is going to look into TN. Elections 2019 are approaching and he knows very well that the entire Tamil Nadu Congress has to be revamped.
 
 
 
 
 I am sure there is going to be a change in leadership.
 
 
 
 
 I have no clue. Even as we speak, I am sure several seniors are being considered for the post.
 
 
 
 
 There are several. I am not going to give you the names. It is the high command, who has to take a call on who will be the best person to take the party forward.
 
 Thirunavukkarasar was appointed the TNCC chief only two years ago. Wouldn’t such frequent changes in leadership affect the state unit’s image and prospects?
 
 Let’s clarify one thing — E V K S Elangovan (former TNCC chief) resigned from the post of TNCC president, he was not changed. He chose to resign because he didn’t want any kind of problem.
 
 
 
 
 There was no pressure. In fact, we kept telling him not to put in his papers. But, he had to undergo a surgery. So, he thought he would look after his health first. We need a leader who can take the party forward, but he also has to be healthy. He didn’t want to take the pressure. And, Elangovan, being what he is, upfront and not the kind to mince words, decided to resign.
 
 
 
 I am sure there is going to be. I haven’t spoken to the party president about this. But, every time we meet, we have been talking about how there has to be a change in Tamil Nadu. We need a change of leadership. We have been speaking about that. I am sure there will be. That’s why I said there are a couple of people who are being considered, but I can’t give you the names.
 
 
 
 
 These rumours have been doing the rounds for a while now. You really need someone who has seen elections, who has been on the road. Being an election campaign chief is not an easy job. It requires a lot of responsibility. It all depends on what Rahul Gandhi has in his mind.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, definitely, he could do much better.
 
 
 
 
 PC’s name is being mentioned because he is a very well-known senior leader in Tamil Nadu and people here know him very well. As to whether PC is going to take over as PCC president, I really doubt it.
 
 
 
 
 They are looking for someone who can keep the party united and take it forward for the people. There are so many problems facing the country. But, we don’t see in Tamil Nadu the kind of sound that Congress makes in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh or Maharashtra. The state unit is not utilising that opportunity at the moment and you need someone who can take it forward. You cannot rely on somebody else to do your job.
 
 
 
 
 The minute there is a meeting between a DMK leader and a leader from a different state, such talks start. The DMK and the Congress don’t react to such conjectures. It is a courtesy call. We are not jumping to any conclusions.
 
 
 
 
 I think in a couple of months.
 
 
 
 I am very very happy. I was happy in DMK too. Dr Kalaignar (DMK president Karunanidhi) had great regards for me and I for him. I am still in touch with Kanimozhi and Selvi akka (elder sister). I am still in touch with many leaders in the DMK. I was happy there and I am happy here too.
 
 
 
 
 That is because there is nothing much happening here. If I am invited to the meetings, I am there, otherwise I am not there. I don’t go to my own father’s house if I am not invited.
 
 
 
 If it comes from a source, it is not to be discussed in public. My lips are sealed.
 
 
 
 
 I know Kamal Haasan at a very personal level… again these are rumours.
 
 
