CHANDIGARH: The adjourned meeting of the   senate to decide on the penalty to be imposed on an assistant professor belonging to the scheduled caste category found guilty of   besides other issues, will now be held on May 6. Earlier, the PU vice-chancellor during the last senate meeting on April 1, had announced that the meeting would be held on April 15. However, it was changed since the date was not suitable to certain members, according to sources. 

 A total of four complaints of sexual harassment were made against the assistant professor, out of which he was proved guilty in two cases, one complaint was withdrawn and he apologized in one case.
 
 On April 1, even after four hours of discussion to decide on what punishment should be given to the assistant professor proved guilty of sexual harassment by the Panjab University Committee Against Sexual Harassment (PUCASH), no consensus was reached and the meeting was adjourned since some senate members had defended the faculty member. 
 
 Meanwhile, the   ( ) has sought details of the discussion that took place in the last senate meeting on the issue. In the last senate meeting, a secret ballot to decide whether the assistant professor should be removed from services or demoted to a lower rank took place. As many as 18 out of 50 senate members did not vote for termination of his services. The two-third majority didn’t materialise, since 32 senate members polled to remove the assistant professor with the possibility of future employment and 18 voted for his demotion. 
 
 As per the PU calendar, three major punishments were suggested which included demotion to a lower rank, termination from services with a provision of future employment and termination from service without possibility of future employment. The House had decided that the third option “termination without possibility of future employment” should not be considered. The House also hovered between the first and second options, though the vice-chancellor was clearly against giving preference to demotion of rank over removal from services. 
 
 
