MADURAI: Even as protests against   are gaining ground in   district, the company has knocked on the doors of the Madras high court Madurai bench seeking police protection to its employees, plant and machinery on the premises. 

  (Sterlite Copper) general manager (legal) A   has filed the petition. It is expected that the case would be come up for hearing on Wednesday. The petitioner said that   has been functioning in Tuticorin district for 20 years which has also been an important source of revenue to the state. The company, which operates a 400KTPA copper smelter plant is going to commission a second unit with the same capacity adjacent to the existing unit in the middle of 2019.
 
 The company has started its works after obtaining all necessary approvals and clearances from the ministry of environment and forest and from the departments of pollution control board, fire, health and local planning authority. 
 
 In February, a group of people caused disturbance to vehicle movement in and around the petitioner’s company following which a complaint was lodged with the SIPCOT police. Later, representations were submitted to the police officials including the inspector general seeking police protection to the company and to prevent any untoward incident there. In the meantime, an organisation conducted a meeting. The speakers who spoke in it repeatedly threatened to destroy the properties of the company. Besides, many organisations are planning to hold further meetings against the company. The CPI (M) has planned to lay siege of the plant on April 4. 
 
 There is an imminent threat to the company. The company has employed more than 3,500 people directly and indirectly. The employees are residing in areas opposite to the company. Besides, the company contains sensitive equipment and environment control devices. If they get damaged, they cannot be replaced easily which may also cause irreparable loss to the firm. Hence, it is necessary to give a direction to the district superintendent of police to give protection to the company and its staff, the petitioner prayed.
 
 
