KOLKATA: Bengal’s panchayat election schedule continued to hang fire as the State Election Commission, wary after a   directive stressing the need for “application of mind” while arranging for poll-day security, refused to heed the state government’s “suggestions” for a two-day poll.

 The state government, officials said on Tuesday, “suggested” a two-day poll on May 14 and May 16 (with result declaration on May 18) as the fasting month of Ramzan would start in mid-May. But the SEC, nudged by the Calcutta HC to “apply its mind” when it came to security concerns, insisted on a three-day vote schedule; officials said the   feared that the 58,000-odd security personnel committed by the state government for 58,692 seats on one day might be inadequate.
 
 It was a petition filed by one of the smaller parties, the Party for Democratic Socialism, that prompted the Calcutta HC directive that might have the most significant bearing on Bengal’s rural poll schedule. PDS secretary Samir Putatunda, flagging off security concerns, told Justice Subrata Talukdar: “We do not want to stall the election process. We want the poll to take place. But we fear for our security. The SEC is not listening to our concerns.”
 
 Justice Talukdar then directed the SEC to convene a meeting of all political parties and listen to their concerns. “I request the SEC to apply its mind clearly when it comes to security,” the judge observed. The final security plan, he directed, should be placed before a Calcutta HC division bench, headed by acting  , on May 4.
 
 Grievances, if any, must also be intimated to the division bench on the same day, Justice Talukdar said, adding that he did not want to add to the number of petitions. The division bench on May 4 will take up another PIL filed by   Congress president Adhir Chowdhury, seeking paramilitary forces for the panchayat polls.
 
 With the security measures now firmly under judicial scrutiny, the SEC, officials said, indicated to the state government that it was unwilling to cut corners. The SEC had earlier written to the state government about the need for central forces, something that was mentioned in its deliberations with Bengal governor Keshari Nath Tripathi, and sought from the government a detailed security plan for the panchayat election.
 
 Earlier on Tuesday, state panchayat and rural development officer on special duty Saurabh Das met state election commissioner Amarendra Kumar Singh for more than 50 minutes from 1 p.m. Das went to Nabanna and was supposed to return to the SEC headquarters on Rawdon Street after meeting CM Mamata Banerjee and chief secretary Moloy De. But those plans were upstaged by what unfolded in the Calcutta HC.
 
 CM Banerjee, De and Das then spent the afternoon thrashing out security logistics in a meeting that went on till the evening. Das is likely to call on state election commissioner Singh again on Wednesday with the final timeline.
 
 But the ongoing legal battle that has dogged the panchayat polls from April 10 has left the SEC and the Bengal government with very little room to manoeuvre. The West Bengal   Act, 2003, stipulates that there should be a minimum gap of 21 days between the last day of filing nominations (April 23) and the first day of voting, which means that the earliest the polls can be held is after May 14.
 
 Banerjee herself highlighted the government’s predicament on Tuesday. “We want the election to happen early as weather is a factor in some districts; temperatures may rise above 50 degrees Celsius after May 10 at places in districts like Bankura, Birbhum and Purulia. Ramzan starts in mid-May and we cannot impose an election on a section of the society during this fasting period. The SEC may have its own way of looking at the situation and may differ with us. We will not comment on that as it is an autonomous body,” she said.
 
 Two other court cases came up on Tuesday morning but the Calcutta HC dismissed both; one was filed by Congress’s Ritzu Ghosal and the other by BJP’s Pratap Banerjee.
 
 
