Former surgeon and fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons, Dr   started his research to find the illnesses of which many great composers died. But after studying the post mortem reports and medical notes during his research, he found that many popular composers did not suffer from the conditions attributed to them. Infact their tales of alcoholism, venereal disease and sexual impropriety were simply gossip, reads a report by The Telegraph UK.

 Published by Boydell & Brewer Ltd., Dr Nobel's new book is titled 
 wherein the author states in the introduction: “Many composers’ reputations have been sullied. An objective attempt is made herein to do justice to their reputations.”
 
 The book suggests that Austrian symphonist   has been unfairly maligned by his biographers, as he did not have any drinking problem. He concluded that claims of Mozart’s alcoholism have ‘little foundation', according to the The Telegraph UK.
 
 Talking about his conclusion and book, Dr Nobel said, “I started out really writing about illnesses and trying to find out what these composers actually did die of, but it soon became apparent many didn’t have any diagnosis, their conditions were just hearsay... The chapter on alcoholism is actually quite thin because so few composers actually met the criteria of being an alcoholic. It’s an extremely rare condition. Alcoholism is inconsistent with serious, sustained musical composition... If you’re a true alcoholic, there’s no way you can go around composing operas, symphonies or string quartets... Maybe alcoholism inspires great poetry, but with music you come to a very different conclusion."
 
 He further said that he couldn't find any concrete evidence that proved that famous composers Mozart,  ,  , Mozart,  , or   were alcoholics, though their biographers have said so. Dr Nobel also pointed out that Sibelius, who is said to have suffered from chronic alcoholic, lived till age 90 and had a good family life. “Chronic alcoholics seldom live to see their ninetieth birthdays...Neither typically do they pursue a quiet, and seemingly well-ordered life with their wife of many years," he said.
 
 Similarly, the former surgeon believes that   did not suffer from syphilis. When he studied Benjamin Britten’s medical notes he found that Britten had a diseased heart valve, and was not suffering from syphilis. Commenting on his finding, he said, “For a doctor to neglect to mention a diagnosis of syphilis or not consult a specialist on the matter would be tantamount to malpractice...It’s more likely, on the balance of probabilities, that he simply didn’t have it.”
 
 The Telegraph UK's report reads 'Britten’s doctor also told Dr Noble that his patient had acquired the reputation as an alcoholic from one cardiologist ‘largely on the basis of being an artistic type who liked a stiff drink before dinner.''
 
 
