MUMBAI: In a macabre repeat of the Kamala Mills blaze where many lost their lives after taking refuge in a washroom, two members of an Andheri family died in a bathroom while trying to escape a major fire in their flat “caused by a spark in an AC” early on Thursday. 

 Four of the five-member family died after sustaining serious burns in the blaze in Maimoon Manzil building in  . The chartered accountant, Abbas Kapasi, who owned the flat lost his wife, two children and father. Five others from another family in the building were hospitalized after they showed symptoms of suffocation. They are stable now.
 
 Early on Thursday, the Mumbai fire brigade received a call about a blaze in the five-storey building. It is learned that the power supply had tripped in the area. The blaze reportedly erupted at the Kapasi family’s 2BHK third-floor flat around 1.50am when power supply was restored. At the time of the incident, Kapasi (47), wife Tasneem (43), children Moiz (10) and Sakina (14) and their 80-year-old paternal grandfather Daud Ali were present in the flat.
 
 Moiz was the first to notice smoke emanating from the AC outside his bedroom. He ran to inform his father who was in another room. “Kapasi woke up, saw the fire and ran out of the flat to seek help. But as soon as he ran out, the door of the flat shut due to the wind and got jammed due to the rapidly spreading fire,” said a fire official.
 
 Moiz might have have run back to his mother. By the time the fire brigade and cops broke into the flat, Tasneem and Moiz’s charred bodies were found hugging each other in a bathroom of the flat. Daud Ali’s body was found in the hall and Sakina’s on her bed in the children’s bedroom.
 
 The fire is known to have spread rapidly to the fourth-floor flat right above Kapasis where the Kotharis reside. Their elder son, Hussain (26), was awake as he was studying for his exam scheduled in the morning. He noticed the smoke and alerted others in the family. “We immediately started spraying water everywhere in the house and eventually lay flat on the ground to avoid inhaling the smoke. We were brought out of the flat when the fire brigade officials arrived,” said Hussain. One more resident, Zara Cutteriwala, was injured, but discharged from the hospital shortly after admission.
 
 Police officials said prima facie it appears that the fire broke out in the AC installed in the children’s bedroom of the Kapasis’ flat. “The exact cause of the fire will be known once fire and the other departments submit their reports. Preliminary probe does not point to any foul play. An accidental death report (ADR) has been registered,” said deputy commissioner of police (Zone X) Navinchandra Reddy.
 
 Abbas told cops that he woke up after his son alerted him to the fire outside the window in his room. “On seeing the fire, Abbas rushed out to get help from his neighbours but the door got locked from inside. Kapasi’s son may have gone to his parents’ bedroom again, by which time the smoke and fire may have spread inside the entire 2BHK flat,” said MIDC police senior inspector Shailesh Pasalwar.
 
 The fire brigade, though, said, “The matter has been reported to police for a detailed inquiry from the flat owner who was present at the time of the fire,” said a senior fire official.
 
 “We entered the flat after the fire brigade doused the fire and found Kapasi’s daughter charred to death. His elderly father was found with minor burns and must have died of suffocation while his wife and son were found in the bathroom hugging each other,” said Pasalwar.
 
 The Kapasi family moved into the flat 12 years ago.
 
 Ivor Dsouza, who had lived next to the family in   earlier for three decades, said the Andheri flat was renovated just six months ago. “We learned that Abbas’s son Moiz saw the flames first and alerted his father. The injuries do suggest that they could not escape,” he said.
 
 The autopsies were carried out at Cooper Hospital in Juhu. One of the doctors said all four bodies were completely charred. “The family members sustained 95% to 100% burns,” a source from Cooper confirmed. The bodies were released around 2.30pm, following which they were taken to the Marol masjid. The burials were carried out late in the evening.
 
 A family friend said Abbas was in complete shock. “He was a loving father to his children. His daughter studied in Class VIII and son in Class IV,” the relative said. The children were students of Hasanat High School opposite the building itself. Abbas held back his tears as he tried to complete the formalities being the only surviving member of the family.
 
 Hakim Kapasi, a distant relative, said they were a loving and close-knit family. “His brother lives in the US and is on his way here,” he said.
 
 Surprisingly, except for the two flats, no other flat in the building was affected by the blaze.
 
 
