Panaji: Thousands of taxi operators assembled at Azad Maidan, Panaji on Friday protesting against the failure of the government to address their “grievances”.

 In their list of demands, the protesting taxi operators have asked the government to exempt them from the Supreme Court order of installing speed governors and for RTOs to stop “harassing” them to implement this rule.
 
 “There are over 2 lakh vehicles in Goa, yet the rule for installing speed governors has been only imposed on taxis. The government wants to say that we are the ones responsible for accidents. There are 20,000 taxis in the state, do all of these get into accidents? This rule should be amended,” said president of North Goa taxi tourist association, Vasudev Arlekar.
 
 Responding to warnings by the government that their permits would be cancelled if they indulged in violence, the taxi operators said they would voluntarily give up their permits if the government provided them with jobs.
 
 “We will not let Ola and Uber come into Goa either. The government can go ahead and cancel our voting cards , but we will not let them take away our bread and butter,” said a taxi operator, Sanjay Kolle. “If the government wants to cancel our subsidies, they can go ahead and do so,” Arlekar added.
 
 Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao and Goa Mahila Congress president, Pratima Coutinho arrived at the protest venue to show their support to the taxi operators. “I had met with the CM to discuss this issue and he told me that the installation of speed governors is a Supreme Court order and has to be followed. If so, he should show us the order. My support to taxi operators was always there,” Alemao said.
 
 “The taxi drivers have taken loans to purchase these cars and they are feeding their families with the income that comes with the taxi business. The unconditional support of Mahila Congress will always be there,” Coutinho said.
 
 AAP Goa convenor Elvis Gomes, GFP MLAs Vijai Sardesai, Vinod Palyekar and Jayesh Salgaonkar, opposition leader Chandrakant Kavlekar and Alexio Reginald Lourenco and general secretary of All Goa Private Bus Owners’ Association, Sudeep Tahmankar also appeared at the scene to extend their solidarity.
 
 
