TALWANDI SABO : Nobody was happy in under the Congress regime, not even party MLAs or the state president, claimed SAD supremo   on Saturday. Sukhbir was addressing the Baisakhi political conference of Akali Dal at Takht Damdama Sahib in Talwandi Sabo on Saturday.

 SAD leaders made scathing attacks on the Congress government in Punjab, saying that it was running in the wrong direction of “no development”. Sukhbir and Union food processing industry minister   Kaur Badal said there was a sorry state of affairs in Punjab.
 
 Sukhbir’s brother-in-law   also lambasted the ruling party and demanded resignation of local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu after the state government approached the Supreme Court to uphold verdict of Punjab and Haryana high court convicting him in a road rage case.
 
 Presiding over the party conference, Sukhbir said it seemed there was no government at all in Punjab. “The government has control over the state machinery. Nobody knows whose orders have to be implemented. I never have seen such a helpless administration. There is no money for development and all the welfare schemes running smoothly during previous government have come to a grinding halt. Nobody is happy under this government. Under such compelling circumstances, the state government wants to please the elected representatives by appointing them as legislative assistants. Though this government speaks of austerity measures, the appointment of MLAs as legislative assistants will hugely increase expenditure as they would demand offices and vehicles apart from staff.”
 
 The SAD chief, however, evaded reply on the anti-drug special task force (STF) report against Majithia over his alleged involvement in the drug trade and said the matter was sub-judice. He, however, claimed that everybody knew that STF head was against the Majithia family.
 
 Harsimrat said Akali Dal was for implementation of the Swaminathan committee’s report on fixing the minimum support price (MSP) over 50% of the total inputs and their party MPs had met the Prime Minister who had assured to implement the recommendations. “We have also taken up the matter of waiving off GST on all langar items at all religious places.”
 
 The Akali leaders also remembered the architect of the Indian Constitution B R Ambedkar on his 127th birth anniversary.
 
 
