Nagpur: City’s only amusement park Krazy Castle will soon be history. Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) has decided to follow union transport minister Nitin Gadkari’s directives and hand over the entire 6.4 acre land to MahaMetro. The decision will be formally ratified by the board of NIT in its next meeting.

 MahaMetro will construct a huge commercial complex on the land. If Haldiram agrees, it will be given commercial space in the complex as compensation.
 
 Reacting to the decision, Haldiram owner Kamal Agrawal said, “We fully agree with the state government decision but it would be better for the city if the amusement park continues to exist.”
 
 Krazy Castle had started in 2002 when NIT handed over the land to Haldiram Foods on a 20-year lease. Other than running the amusement park, the concessionaire also used to rent a part of the land for weddings and other functions. Haldiram had demanded Rs162 crore as compensation from NIT for its loss of business in remaining five years — 2018 to 2022. A three member committee under divisional commissioner Anup Kumar will decide the compensation amount.
 
 MahaMetro needs the land as its viaduct of Sitabuldi-Hingna depot stretch passes through it. It also needs to create parking lot for its Ambazari Lake View station. The amusement park land was included in Nagpur Metro detailed project report (DPR) commissioned by NIT.
 
 In September 2017, MahaMetro had sought only half the amusement park land. However, Haldiram objected to the proposal stating the park would lose its charm if its size was reduced by half. It demanded that MahaMetro realign its viaduct to prevent acquisition of the land. If this was not possible then the entire land should be acquired and Haldiram should be paid a compensation for loss of business. At that time NIT decided to adjust this amount against its share of Rs434 crore in the Nagpur Metro project.
 
 MahaMetro rejected the demand to realign the viaduct. It pointed out that the alignment of corridor had been finalized through a gazette notification of central government. It would take another notification to get it changed, which was very difficult. Metro officials then prepared a plan to shift the park rides in a way that they got their land and Krazy Castle also remained functional. A meeting was held between the officials and owners of Haldiram but the latter did not show any interest.
 
 In January this year, MahaMetro decided to seek the entire land from NIT. Gadkari held a meeting on this issue on February 27 and asked NIT to fulfil MahaMetro’s demand. NIT chairman Deepak Mhaisekar decided to act on this directive this month.
 
 Nag river passes through the park land. Haldiram had covered the river while Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) looked the other way. MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit, however, assured that no construction would be done on the river. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal said NMC would ensure that MahaMetro followed all the rules and regulations regarding development on river banks.
 
 
