PATNA: Factionalism in state   once again came to fore on Saturday when a majority of party MLAs owing allegiance to former   Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief   abstained from a crucial meeting convened by the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Sadanand Singh to discuss the "state's current political scenario" in the wake of incarceration of RJD chief Lalu Prasad in a fodder scam case. 

 Congress has 27 MLAs in the state and most of them are loyal to Choudhary. They have been abstaining from the official meetings of the state Congress citing one or the other reason ever since Choudhary was removed from the post of BPCC chief on September 26 last year.
 
  Saturday's meeting was convened by Singh after getting a formal approval from the   general secretary and party in-charge for Bihar C P Joshi. Despite being the senior most and nine-time MLA, Sadanand Singh personally telephoned most of the senior functionaries of the state Congress and party legislators, requesting them to attend the meeting and express their opinion on the issues related to the state Congress's relation with ally RJD, especially in the wake of Lalu's incarceration. 
 
 Though party seniors like former AICC general secretary  , former Kerala Governor  , former ministers Awadesh Kumar Singh and   Jha turned up at the meeting, majority of MLAs skipped it.
 
 Party sources said of the 27 MLAs, only 10 turned up at the meeting which continued for three hours at the residence of the CLP leader, who later claimed that the party's alliance with RJD will continue. 
 
 Besides the CLP leader, the MLAs present at the meeting included Amita Bhushan (state Mahila Congress chief), Vinay Kumar Verma, Awadhesh Kumar Singh, Rajesh Kumar, Bhavna Jha, Amit Kumar Tunna, Poonam Paswan, Siddharth and Bunty Choudhary. Majority of MLAs who abstained from the meeting are considered close to Ashok Choudhary.
 
 Sources said the CLP leader informed those who participated in the meeting that Ashok Choudhary had told him that he was out of the state on a pilgrimage in Odisha and, hence, he would not attend the meeting.
 
 BPCC president incharge Kaukab Quadri said Lalu's son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav had recently invited him to his residence and made a formal request to launch a joint agitation in the state after Makar Sankranti against the Nitish Kumar government. Some Congress netas suggested that the party's proposed 'Aamantran Yatra', which is scheduled to start from January 18, be deferred following prevailing severe cold conditions across the state.
 
 
