NEW DELHI: In the midst of dramatic developments all of Wednesday, which eventually led to this morning's swearing in of BJP leader BS   as  , former finance minister in the UPA government P Chidambaram took a dig at the BJP with this tweet -- "Governor invites Mr Yeddyurappa to manufacture a majority in 15 days. Governor gives Mr Yeddyurappa 15 days to convert the number 104 into 111." 

 
  
  
 With allegations of horsetrading and 'resort politic's already doing the rounds, Chidambaram's tweet came after the saffron party put out a copy of the invitation letter received from Governor Vajubhai Vala, according to which he has given the BJP 15 days to prove their majority on the floor of the House.
 
 Some hours later, Chidambaram tweeted again saying that Yeddyurappa's letter to Karnataka Governor Vajubai Vala will "seal his fate." 
 
 "Mr Yedyurappa's letter to the Governor will seal his fate. There is no mention of a number bigger than 104. The Governor's invitation does not mention any number at all!" he tweeted.
 
  
  
 
 The statement came following a night of dramatic developments which saw the governor inviting Yeddyurappa to form the government as the single largest party with 104 seats although it was currently short of an outright victory by seven seats.
 
  
  
 
 In the early hours of Thursday morning, the Supreme Court in its hearing decided not to put a stay on the swearing-in ceremony of Yeddyurappa, in response to a petition filed by the Congress challenging the governor's decision.
 
 However, the top court did not dismiss the petition filed by the Congress and JD(S), and scheduled a hearing in the matter for Friday at 10:30 am, making it clear that the swearing in and government formation in the state would be subject to the final outcome of the case before it.
 
 To this, Chidambaram tweeted, "I salute the Supreme Court. If I were Mr Yeddyurappa, I will not take oath until the hearing at 10:30 a.m. on Friday, 18th May." 
 
  
  
 
 The BJP leader, however, thought otherwise, having been sworn in a short while ago.
 
