KOCHI:   and  , two 18 – year – old   are on cloud nine as their most cherished dream to set out for a Himalayan Odyssey on their   is finally going to be a reality. Anfy and Anagha are planning to cover a distance of more than 6,000 kilometres in their 18 – day trip to Himalayas which will kick off from Thrissur on June 19.

 “I love riding Bullets. So do my friend Anagha. We studied in the same school since Class I but we became thick friends while we were in Class-VIII and the reason was our love for Bullets. It was our wish to go to Himalayas on Bullet before we turned 19. All this while we were doing our best to make it possible through rigorous training and sheer determination and nowwehave gotthe approval and blessings of our parents too, said Anfy, who learned to ride Bullet when she was 16 – years – old. “From Delhi to Himalayas and vice versa we have to cover around 3,500km and in our return trip, from Delhi to Chalakkudy we will have to cover around 2,600km. We will cover 250km daily,” said Anfy Anfy said that ever since she started riding Bullet, her confidence has increased tremendously.
 
 “Earlier it was difficult for me to look into the eyes of people and talk to them. But after I started riding Bullet it instilled in me some boldness. It’s a different feeling altogether. Also when I am riding Bullet it feels like a joyride atop an elephant. When I used to ride scooty, boys used to pass comments and tease me. But ever since I started riding Bullet, people have started showing some sort of respect, said Anfy, who along with her friend Anagha is undertaking the Himalayan Trip to spread the message of women empowerment as well as to rehabilitatewomen who have been subjected to sexual harassment.
 
 Anfy also owns a 350cc Bullet Motor Bike and said that her parents have always been supportive in her endeavours. “My father sold his five sovereign gold chains to get me a bullet bike. I started cycling at the age of nine. While I was studying in Class VI,I was filled with the desire to learn how to ride a bike and then later a car and even a bus. When I was 16 I decided that I wanted to ride a bullet. I used to rent a bullet to learn driving. Theday I turned 18, I applied for driving licence and since then Bullet has always been a part and parcel of my life, she said. Anfy is a BBA with Aviation Management student Anagha also has a her fair share of thoughts on how she became an ardent fan of Bullet bikes. Despite being short (around 5ft), she has successfully overcome the hurdles when it comes to riding a Bullet.
 
 “It was at first a little bit difficult. But with the support of Anfy and my family I learned it quickly. I wear high heel shoes to ride bullet. I feel very much powerful when I am riding a bullet,” said Anagha.
 
 Meanwhile, Amfy and Anagha are also looking for people who can sponsor their trip as they won’t be able to finance the whole trip on their own.
 
