It is that time of the year again when tiny tots step into their school shoes for the first time in their lives, while others welcome a new academic year in their uniforms, carrying their bags and tales from their vacations.
Everyone would have funny stories to share from their nursery and kindergarten days. We made some of Mollywood’s celebs take a walk down memory lane about their first few days at school and other cherished moments as students.
 
 
 
 
 My lower kindergarten (LKG) experience was different from my younger siblings’ as they always had me to look out for them. I was admitted in school when I was three and a half years old, and my parents were very concerned about me. For almost a week, my mother used to follow my school bus till I reached school, and then would check on me from afar. She would hide somewhere because she was afraid if I saw her I would burst out crying.
 
 Our family friend’s daughter Rithika was my guardian at school. Even though she was just six months elder than me, she used to behave like a mature girl, taking me to my class and assuring me that everything is going to be alright. She was my first best friend and if not for her, I would have made a fuss about being in an alien place.
 
 One of the craziest things I did in LKG was while everyone was sleeping, I took the books, tiffin box and other contents in my classmate’s bag and kept them in mine for no particular reason. The next day, my mother came to school with the cleaned tiffin box and all the other stuff.
 
 
 
 
 
 I remember how happy I was to go to school during my first day as I would get to meet a lot of others. But after two days, I realised the quandary I was in (laughs). Everything was new — be it wearing uniform, waking up early and getting organised.
 Even before I went to school, I used to ask my parents why my sister, who is seven years elder than me, hasn’t returned home yet. It was really tough for them to get me to school during the early days, as I used to doze off while brushing my teeth in the bathroom.
 
 That said, everyone used to adore me as a kid. I used to be studious initially, but as I grew up, I also started goofing around. 
 
 During high school, I used to keep an extra set of clothes in my bag, so that I can bunk classes to watch movies, which I used to love even back then. Whenever the school authorities found out my mischiefs, they would call my parents. Being well prepared, I used to disconnect the extension wire of the landline of the room, where my mother used to be most of the time so that she doesn’t answer the call. I also used to bother my teachers with umpteen questions as a kid.
 
 
 
 
 When it was time to go to school for the first time, I was a cry baby. I never wanted to leave home. My parents started prepping me an hour before the school bus arrived. From what they tell me, it was such a massive task to get me into the school bus.
 I was a naughty child as well. My teachers used to scold me and I even managed to get a beating or two. 
 
 Though I was enrolled in a convent school, I was always the anti-thesis of discipline. Once during my nursery days, I was locked up in a bathroom by my teacher as punishment for being extremely mischievous (laughs). Despite all that, people around me used to love me for my chirpiness, and would be worried if I was silent.
 While I was in Class 8, I used to play with the students of another division in the playground during the physical education period, and the teachers, who happen to see me used to wonder which class I belonged to. 
 
 The only thing that irritated me was the constant shuffling that used to happen every year and so, when the school re-opened I had to start from square one.
 
 
 
 
 
 I never cried, while going to school — be it the first day or the rest of my school life. I was actually very happy on the first day, probably because I was going to a balawadi before I was enrolled in the school. That sort of gave me a solid idea about how things are at a school.
 
 Joining the LKG was indeed a ‘chadangu’ to look forward to. I found crying in class during the initial days was quite contagious, and I used to wonder whether it is wrong not to cry.
 My family and relatives tell me that I was always an attention seeking kid and a showman. Guess this continued to be my trait. I was a poser too. I used to always carry a mask around when I was a kid and made faces at everyone, making them laugh. Even when I felt low, I used to shed tears behind that mask, which my aunt once found out.
 Just like I had butterflies in my stomach before joining my LKG, I still get that at the beginning of every show or programme. But that does not last for long, as it is followed by celebration and a drive to be the cynosure of all eyes.
 
