NAGPUR: In another blatant breach of Maharashtra Public Universities Act, the   (NU) has formed special task committees for exam works of four faculties despite elections and nominations for   (BoS). The BoS are almost complete but the NU has been unable to convene their first meetings, which are crucial to initiate their functioning.

 The special task committee, which was formed in the absence of statutory bodies, for Humanities met on Wednesday while meetings of other three faculties are scheduled in the coming days. 
 
 Besides ignoring qualified and eligible members, the NU has nominated retired professors on the committees constituted for the appointment of paper setters, examiners and moderators for the Summer/Winter 2018-19 exams.
 
 Except the chairman and special invitees, a pool of three elected and nine nominated members in several BoS was available for the NU to pick from for the special task. On the other hand, the NU has been dilly-dallying on holding the first meeting of BoS where the chairman would be elected.
 
 Vice-chancellor SP   agreed that the BoS are nearly complete but said the NU can’t engage their members in any work until the chairman is elected. “The Act says the BoS has to elect its chairman in its very first meeting. For the election process, 21 days notice has to be issued and direction has to be formulated. The BoS are likely to start functioning from June 19,” he said.
 
 When pointed out that retired professors have been named on the special task committee, Kane said, “They can be included. They just have to make recommendations and can’t take decisions.”
 
 A Humanities professor, who has been named on the committee, countered Kane’s claim by asking, “Can the VC approve decisions when his tenure has ended?” He said the work done by the committees has come under scanner before and therefore the administration should have waited for the BoS to become functional.
 
 The VC said the committee can be engaged when there is a need for quick decision. “The committees were never dissolved and very much in existence. Urgent works like exams can’t be held back,” Kane said.
 
 The professor said the administration had dissolved the committees ahead of statutory bodies election in November last year. “This is the reason why the new committees were never notified. The current members are carry forwards from the old list,” he said.
 
 He added that when people who are not in service are appointed there is possibility of nepotism which ultimately cast a spell on examinations or preparation of syllabus.
 
 
