CHANDIGARH: Saksham Sparsh Art Foundation inaugurated its 9th annual art   at the   on Wednesday evening.

 The exhibition, this year, has showcased the artworks of over 50 artistes of national and international repute, which have been chosen from numerous applications sent to the managing committee.
 
 Apart from 32 participants (artists), whose works have been shortlisted by the jury, 16 more eminent artists have been invited by the management to put their work on display. The list includes familiar names like Dattatreya Apte, Bijay Chandra Prasad, Kalicharan, Poonam Chandrika Tyagi, Jiten Hazarika, Jai Zharotia among others.
 
 Artworks by three city-based artists in the student category have also been exhibited in the collection.
 
 The exhibition, that covers all mediums and versions of art including paintings, photographic artworks, digital paintings, sculptures, drawings and mix-media covers artworks across the spectra of popular expressionism, symbolism, portraits, sepia, black and white, pen etchings on papers and even landscapes. The exhibition captures widespread plurality of art, bringing angst, envy, beauty, vanity, human emotions and much more on canvas.
 
 A naked woman, surrounded by darkness, with her face and bosom showered in light, is inches away from a hanging snake by Gujarati artist  , human faces painted in multiple shades with yellow dominating the colour palette and dotted by a flower pot in the foreground by artist Chaman Sharma, and artist Dattatraya Apte’s artwork leveled and shelved by numerous patterns and textures, created with stone-like raw materials were some of the artworks that stood out in the invitees’ section. 
 
 However, a sculpture made of a large wooden block, surrounded by soil with two seemingly-charred portrait of an old man with a wrinkled face and ashes sprinkled all around, by photographer   became a complex riddle. When asked, he said, “My Tayaji (his father’s elder brother) passed away a few years ago. When I visited his family after a few months, I saw that the glass frame of his photo was cracked and was hanging on the wall. I asked them to get it changed, to honour their elder. They assured me of doing so. However, when I visited the house after a few months, I noticed that the glass was not replaced as it was assured. After checking for a third time, I realised that a person is important, even to his immediate family, only till he or she is alive. Once he or she passes away, nobody really cares. This installation (sculpture) is trying to meditate on the same point by showing old people, half burnt and surrounded by soil just as they are, at the time when their last rites are performed.”
 
 The exhibition will go on till April 1, 2018.
 
 
