MUMBAI: A 17-year-old SSC repeater who allegedly circulated four SSC papers from his phone was picked up by police on Monday for questioning as part of the SSC paper leak probe. The teenager, who is the nephew of IT engineering student Awarun Hasan (22) who was arrested by   on March 20, is being questioned by   in connection with the   leak. Police claimed to have found a common link in the two paper leak cases registered with Saki Naka and Amboli police stations. 

 When police reached his   home, the teenager said he was expecting them after Hasan’s arrest. He said he had received three papers—History and Political Science, Geography and Science-II—from his uncle. DCP (zone X) N Reddy confirmed: “The teenager was picked up after going through the phone details of eight students who had got the ICT paper. He circulated the papers. More arrests are likely and action on this student and others will be decided accordingly.” 
 
 The kingpin of the Amboli leak,   (47), had circulated the papers to some of the students through Hasan. On Tuesday, Saki Naka police will seek custody of Khan, Hasan and two others arrested from Andheri magistrate’s court. Police will also issue notices to the eight students against whom action will be initiated. 
 
 Meanwhile, the head of  ,   (67), on Monday admitted that lapses on her part had led to the   between March 10 and 19. Police claimed Khan, a maths teacher at the  , had clicked pictures of the papers and shared them with his aides, who circulated them. 
 
  Shaikh told police that she trusted Khan who convinced her to open the paper bundle seals at 9.15am, instead of 10am. She even gave Khan money “to bribe a board official at Vashi” to expedite the exam centre paperwork process.
 
 But Subhash Borse, in-charge secretary of board’s Mumbai division, said: “Only if a school requests to be an exam centre, they have to pay a minimal fee of Rs 5,000. But, in this case, the Mumbra school was selected to be a centre because a nearby school couldn’t hold the exams.” He added that they will conduct an inquiry if police find board officials’ involvement. The board had approved Kiddies’ Paradise as a centre on education officer’s recommendation. While Shaikh claimed no inspection was done, Thane zilla parishad education officer Meena Yadav said, “We have an inspection report of the centre. Our officials visited the school and checked if it had infrastructure like rooms and drinking water. Only then was the nod given.”
 
 Investigating officer Daya Nayak said they have recorded the statements of Shaikh and her husband, whose roles have not been established in the leak so far.
 
 
