Vadodara: Is the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) compromising with its umpiring standards in the cricket matches hosted in the city? 

 Three members of the BCA umpires committee have alleged that the association management has been giving umpiring to those who have scored less marks in the umpiring exams while ignoring the BCCI level 1 qualified umpires. 
 
 Kalyan Haribhakti, Nilesh Patel and Amit Joshi, members of the umpires committee have shot off an email to the BCA management and sought an explanation. The trio has also opposed BCA’s move of appointing two new non-elected members to the umpires committee. “There are qualified umpires who have cleared BCCI Level 1 exams but they are not being given matches. Instead those who have failed or scored less marks in umpiring exams are getting matches as they support the ruling Revival Group,” Haribhakti told TOI. 
 
 The mail, copy of which is with TOI, states that all decisions related to posting of umpires, which is primary duty of this committee, is taken by the so-called godfathers behind the curtain and all non-qualified or less qualified umpires are given the posting at the cost of BCCI Level 1 qualified umpires. Haribhakti said that not giving umpiring to qualified umpires may affect the quality of the matches and it reflects bad on the part of the BCA. 
 
 When contacted, BCA secretary (in-charge) and convener of the umpires committee, Amar Petiwale denied groupism and said, “There has been some confusion and hence some umpires didn’t get matches. We will ensure that all qualified umpires will now be given matches.” 
 
 Haribhakti, Patel and Joshi, who belong to the Samarjitsinh Gaekwad-led Royal Group, have also objected to the appointment of two new non-elected members, Suhas Sapre and Manoj Kadakiya to the umpires committee. “Any sub-committee can’t have co-opted members. The BCA management is appointing two new non-elected members to get majority in the five-member committee of which only two are of Revival Group. We have sought reply from them,” Haribhakti said. 
 
 The umpires committee will be meeting on Thursday after a big gap of two years. “Sub-committees can co-opt members and the managing committee has appointed two new members. I will reply to their email,” Petiwale said.
 
 
