AURANGABAD: Good times lie ahead for residents of western Marathwada as the ministry of external affairs (MEA) and the department of post are set to start the operations of the   (POPSK) at Jalna and Beed from March 26 and 29 respectively.

 The   is likely to be inaugurated in two other districts in the region— Latur and Nanded— by first half of April, taking the total number of POPSKs in Marathwada to five including the year-old facility at Aurangabad. 
 
 Jalgaon, which comes under the jurisdiction of Aurangabad postal region, will also have a POPSK by next month. 
 
 Aurangabad circle postmaster general Pranav Kumar said while the inauguration dates for the passport facilities at Jalna and Beed have been worked out, the dates for Nanded, Latur and Jalgaon would be declared shortly. 
 
 ”A total of six POPSKs were scheduled to come up in Aurangabad postal circle in the first phase. While the passport facility at Aurangabad is already functional since last year, we are very happy that POPSKs are coming up at Jalna and Beed. The proposed facilities at three other places will become operational very soon,” he said. 
 
 The announcement of setting up POPSKs at four Marathwada districts was jointly made by the MEA and the department of posts in June last year, raising the hopes of scores of people to have a passport without hassles. 
 
 Advocacy group Passport office Aurangabad Action Committee, which has been pressing the demand for setting up a regional passport office (RPO) at Aurangabad, said setting up passport facilities at Marathwada districts was a welcome move but an RPO at Aurangabad was the need of the hour. 
 
 “It is good that POPSKs are coming up at the four Marathwada districts but the region needs a dedicated RPO at Aurangabad. Applicants currently have to travel all the way to Mumbai in case any technical issues arises while processing the passport application,” said advocacy group founder president S Masih. 
 
 Nitin Mantri, a businessman from Beed, said the long wait of residents has come to an end as a POPSK is slated to start operations in his city on March 29.
 
 
