KOLKATA: The last minute information by   about the amendment in the   act, making   (NEET) mandatory for medical aspirants planning to study abroad, has come as shocker for many candidates seeking foreign admission. While MCI notified about the “major” policy change on March 8, CBSE informed students about the same on March 10 on its website. The last day for filling the application form for the May 6 NEET examination is Monday.

  
  
 
 Senior CBSE officials claimed that students should have followed the news and regular information bulletin updates instead of relying only on official circulars and notices. “The parents are sending mails on wrong IDs and are not even checking the FAQs that have been updated from time to time. Moreover, most aspirants should have made India the first choice to study medicine and then foreign institutions. Only a few academically poor students, who knew that they would not make a cut in NEET, aim at skipping the exam and taking admissions outside India. But candidates shouldn’t face trouble since the website is open 24 hours to accept applications,” said the official.
 
 Amiya Maity, a former teacher of SSKM hospital, however had a different take. The veteran teacher said sudden information like this were bound to take candidates by surprise. “Within a very short time all medical aspirants, who would want to keep options open to go abroad for medical studies, will have to fill up their NEET forms which will be closed on Monday. The aspirants who are not in the loop will be in a fix,” he said.
 
 Abdul Aziz, a student who wants to study MBBS abroad, said: “I somehow managed to fill up form after receiving information on media. But several of my friends were reluctant to appear in NEET thinking that the exam may not be made mandatory from this year to go abroad. They are now rushing to sit in the exam. But those who will not regularly check the updates will miss the opportunity.”
 
 Saraswationline.com sends medical aspirants to three countries — China, Bangladesh and Philippines every year. Academic counsellor   informed that they have been bombarded with calls asking for confirmation of the news since the past several months. “The information can’t be confirmed till it’s officially announced. Now that it has been confirmed candidates will face a tough time to register, fill up the forms and then make payments within a short period.”
 
 
