KOLKATA: A 25-year-old woman was molested by her copassengers in an auto late on Sunday between Dhakuria and Jadavpur police station. Shockingly, no one came to her help in what is one of south Kolkata’s busiest stretches, forcing her to jump out when the auto slowed down. She might have escaped a worse fate, but the 120-second auto ride has probably left her with lifelong scars.

 According to the cops, the woman, who works for an NGO, had gone to attend a programme at Dhakuria’s Madhusudan Mancha with a friend. Afterwards, they had dinner before her friend boarded a bus and left. The woman decided to board an auto to the Jadavpur PS, from where she planned to take another auto to her Prince Anwar Shah Road home.
 
  
  
 She found an auto around 10.20pm in front of a popular restaurant on Gariahat Road (south). “There were four passengers. Three were in the rear seat, while the third was sitting to the driver’s right,” said an investigating officer at Lake police station. “Finding the left seat unoccupied, she sat beside the driver. Within seconds, she found someone touching her inappropriately. Initially, she tried to re-adjust her sitting position, but soon realized that her clothing had been slashed by someone, probably with a blade. The woman asked the auto driver to stop, but he paid no heed. Forced to defend herself, she gathered all her courage and jumped off the auto when it slowed a bit in front of Jadavpur PS. She was hurt but she continued her journey back home. She complained to us on Monday.”
 
 The Lake PS has registered a case. But, almost 24 hours after the FIR was registered, the accused — including the auto driver — have not yet been arrested. The cops are trawling through hours of CCTV footage to get leads.
 
 “The passengers in the rear seat harassed her with unwelcome physical contact. We have registered a case in this regard under sections 354A and 354B of the IPC, pertaining to  . We are sparing no effort to identify the vehicle in which the woman was travelling and nab the accused,” said DC (Southeast) Kalyan Mukherjee.
 
 Cops believe the auto involved could be one plying on the Garia-Golpark route. “It is the only auto service on this stretch. But it is possible that it is one that plies regularly on a different route. Statements of several auto drivers who were seen crossing the stretch at that time have been recorded but no major lead has emerged yet,” said an investigating officer.
 
 When contacted, the woman refused to speak to the press.
 
 
