NEW DELHI:   Chief Justice Dinesh Maheshwari’s recent letter reveals his predecessor,  , gave a clean chit to district judge P Krishna Bhat by trashing a woman magistrate’s sexual harassment complaint even as the HC’s administrative committee was seized of the matter. 

 Then CJ Mukherjee’s decision to absolve Bhat, pushing under the carpet the pending inquiry, was quickly accepted by the Supreme Court collegium to reiterate the recommendation for Bhat’s appointment to the Karnataka HC. 
 
 On March 12, Justice Maheswari in a letter to CJI Dipak Misra sequenced events in 2016 relating to the sexual harassment complaint. On March 21, senior-most SC judge,  , accused Justice Maheshwari of “doing executive’s bidding’ and warned the CJI and fellow SC judges of the executive interfering in judiciary by writing directly to the HC CJ to ‘look into’ the sexual harassment complaint. 
 
 The woman judicial officer had complained on June 3, 2016, four months after the SC collegium first recommended Bhat’s name. The HC registered her complaint on July 30, 2016. Justice Mukherjee had assigned the complaint to the administrative committee comprising himself (as the CJ) and four senior-most judges on August 19, 2016. 
 
 It was taken up for consideration only on March 8, 2017. In the meanwhile, on a query from SC, CJ Mukherjee wrote to the CJI on November 14, 2016, saying the sexual harassment complaint is “incorrect and concocted.” When Justice Maheshwari joined as CJ on February 12, 2018, the HC registry told him the woman officer had sent a representation to PMO on December 11, 2017, alleging “Bhat had managed her June 3 complaint” and she had neither been called for inquiry nor evidence. 
 
 “This representation was forwarded... to the HC registrar general on January 19,” he said. When   found the administrative committee had simply ‘deferred’ inquiry into the complaint, he convened a meeting of the committee comprising himself and Justices H G Ramesh, B S Patil, R S Chauhan and Budihal R B. They decided to call for response of Bhat in the pending issue. 
 
 Calling for Bhat’s response appears to have angered  , who wrote in his March 21 letter “the CJ of Karnataka HC has been more than willing to do the Executive bidding, behind our back.” Justice Chelameswar’s letter did not question then-CJ’s propriety in giving a clean chit to Bhat despite the pending sexual harassment complaint. 
 
 He also supported the SC collegium accepting such a clean chit behind the back of the HC committee. Justice Chelameswar had written: “At that time we (the SC collegium) were aware of the allegations but we consciously and rightly disbelieved them. Surprisingly, the government selectively withheld his elevation and accepted that for the remaining five others (junior to him).”He appeared worried about Bhat as his letter stated “if such retaliatory complaints are entertained, no career conscious judge would ever risk disciplining his subordinates.” 
 
 Rattled by the letter, the HC administrative committee on March 23 decided to close the pending inquiry against Bhat.
 
