CHENNAI: If one can afford them, cabs can ensure a comfortable commute within the city and beyond. But despite the convenience, cabs may not be the safest option, as often perceived to be.

 Sample this, taxis, including those operated by app-based aggregators, stood second in the list of traffic offences committed by commercial vehicles across   in 2016-17. Around 43,000 cases were booked against yellow-board taxis for traffic offences including speeding, overloading, jumping signals and drunk driving. Also, state transport department records show that more than 230 people were killed while travelling in taxis and 1,200 injured in 1,470 road crashes during the same period.
 
  
  
 
 Taxis caused nearly 10% of the road accidents in Chennai, said a senior official from the state transport department. Offenders include tourist cabs, app-based ones and shuttle services operated for IT employees.
 
 “Hardly those driving these vehicles obey traffic rules, said G Ramesh,” a resident of  . “The drivers are impatient and continuously honk at vehicles in front of them at traffic signals forcing others to jump the signal.” In fact, 80 taxis were booked for honking in Chennai in 2016-17.
 
 Traffic police sources said most of these drivers hailed from other districts where traffic conditions are different. “They violate traffic rules after seeing some people not adhering to them in the city. While a section of them adapt, others end up causing accidents since they don’t undergo necessary training,” said a traffic police official.
 
 M   from  , a city-based NGO that works on road safety, said most drivers have little understanding of traffic rules. “Though the cab users are given a chance to complain about speeding after they complete the ride, the implementation part is still questionable,” he said.
 
 Studies taken up by researchers in Chennai and other metro cities suggest that nearly 50% of cab drivers suffer from ailments and fatigue due to excess workload, particularly after the advent of app-based aggregators leading to higher number of accidents. Though there has been an increase in vigilance of late, activists said vehicle checks should be intensified in the suburbs, particularly during wee hours when the accident rate in high.
 
 
