LUDHIANA: The health department is in a dilemma over measles-rubella (MR)  , which was supposed to start from April 23 because yet another immunization program is likely to begin on the same day.

 The officials said the picture will be clear by Wednesday in case the MR campaign gets delayed. But if the campaign gets postponed, it wouldn’t be good news for the district-level officials, who have been preparing for this campaign for the past six months. They had made all arrangements for the same and the officials will be disappointed if the drive does not take off on time.
 
 It is for the first time that the Central government’s MR campaign is being launched in  . The purpose of this drive is to eradicate measles and control rubella. The vaccination is to be given to the children from nine months to less than 15 years of age.
 
 At the district-level, the officials had made arrangements to carry out the drive. In the first two weeks of this campaign, the health teams are supposed to visit the schools. The officials even conducted meetings with principals of all government and private schools. Anganwadis, community health centers and other places would be covered under this campaign too.
 
 In the meantime, sources revealed that the Centre has directed to start Mission Indradhanush. The aim of the programme is to reach every kid below the age of two years, who are yet to be covered under the routine immunisation programme. The first round of Mission Indradhanush is supposed to start from April 23 and continue till April 27. The second round will follow soon after that. Sources revealed that MR campaign can be postponed until June or July.
 
 When contacted the state immunization officer, Dr GB Singh, said, “We have not taken a final decision in this regard. We are trying not to postpone the MR campaign. The officials have made all kind of arrangement. The picture will be clear by Wednesday.” He said in the entire state around 75 lakh children will be getting this vaccination. More than 12 lakh children will be given vaccination in Ludhiana.
 
 Measles is a life-threatening disease, which spreads through the virus. It causes disability and untimely death of children. However, Rubella is an infectious disease caused by a virus and it has symptoms similar to measles. It infects both boys and girls. If a woman gets infected early in her pregnancy, it can result in congenital rubella syndrome, which can be harmful to her foetus and new born baby. 
 
 
