JAIPUR: In these cynical times, this tale of humanity may seem like a miracle. It was so on Monday for the family of a mentally challenged 75-year-old-man from   district, who went missing from   village 12 years ago following a flash flood in August 2006.

 
 Dhanna Ram, who was assumed to be dead and belongs to the Bheel community, was reunited with his family, thanks to the efforts of a 27-year-old good Samaritan from   village near Kutch in  .
 
 Reminding one of the Salman Khan-starrer ‘Bajrangi Bhaijaan’, the youth not only took care of the lost Dhanna after he found him wandering near his village in 2011 for seven years, but reunited him with his family in Nitoda after the latter suddenly remembered the name of his village and the family consisting of three married brothers.
 
 The story began in August 2006 when Dhanna, who had taken his goats to graze in his village, was stuck in torrential rains and lost his goats.
 
 
 Family members recognised Dhanna during video call
 
  “He decided not to return home. I don’t know where he spent his initial years, but I found him seven years ago in my village and took him home,” said Laxman Garwah of Dayapura village of Gujarat, who reunited Dhanna with his family. After seven years of being in the care of the family of Garwahs, fate suddenly changed for Dhanna in May this year when he fell ill.
 
 “While he was ill, he started crying every day and said he wanted to go home. He then suddenly remembered the name of his village,” Garwah said.
 
 He surfed the internet to locate Nitoda. “Luckily, in the second week of May, I found a video on the You-Tube in which villagers from Nitoda had shared a video of a newly constructed temple. I also found a mobile number of a photographer. I called him and found a villager who knew Dhanna’s family. I requested him to visit his home and made a video call to the family,” he said.
 
 “The family recognised him during the video call and Dhanna began crying. They requested me to bring him back,” Garwah said.
 
 The entire village of Dayapura collected money for a vehicle to take Dhanna to his village. “Everyone, including Hindus and Muslims, contributed. On Sunday evening, we started from Gujarat and reached Dhanna’s home on Monday morning,” he said. All those who accompanied Dhanna from Gujarat were welcomed by Nitoda residents. Over 200 villagers gathered for the reunion.
 
 Chetan Bheel, Dhanna’s nephew, and his sisters-inlaw were in tears when they saw him. “Humne to maan liya thaa marr gaye   (We assumed the uncle was dead),” said Chetan.
 
 The Dayapura villagers had also handed over Rs 20,000 in cash to Dhanna’s family in the presence of village sarpanch and his three brothers—Sitaram, Komaram and Pooraram.
 
