Trichy: The forest department is planning to turn the lesser known Keezh Karai village in   into a recreational avenue by introducing boating facilities here. A feasibility study is being prepared by the department as the demand has been long pending from the villagers. 

 Forest officials seek to provide employment opportunities to the local tribal community and also create a recreational spot in   with the move. The tank spread across a hectare is presently being used by the 60 odd tribal families in the village for agriculture purposes. 
 
 In the preliminary stage, forest department is planning to survey the entire stretch with the help of panchayat officials to earmark the area. 
 
 Speaking on the plan, district forest officer Naga Sathish Gidijala said that it was the people in   village who came up with the demand to start a boating facility for tourists. 
 
 “Spread over a hectare, the pond falls in a scenic location which is en-route to one of the trekking paths in the Patchamalai forest range. Interestingly, the tank manages to retain water throughout the year. However, we came to know that the land belongs local panchayat,” he said. 
 
 “If everything goes as per plan, we would set up an eco-tourism committee with people from the village. The committee will manage the boating facility for the tourist under the supervision of the forest department, thus creating income for the locals,” said the DFO.
 
 According to local forest officials, people in the village are ready to give their land for deepening and widening of the tank. While this would help increasing the water retention capacity of the tank, it would also help them utilize it during water scarcity. 
 
 According to  , a member of the tribal community from Keezh Karai, the move would provide them employment opportunity whereas now they are entirely depend on agriculture which isn’t very profitable. 
 
 Apart from Keezh Karai, there is a nearby village Sholamaati who also depend on the water in the tank. 
 
 An eco-tourism committee formed by the forest department at   village in Patchamalai has provided employment opportunity to the locals. They are engaged in guiding tourist for trekking and taking care of the forest accommodation and food for the tourists. 
 
 
