KOLKATA: The four-year-old girl, who was allegedly sexually abused by two PT teachers inside her school toilet on November 30, is all set to leave the south Kolkata institution and seek admission to another girls-only English-medium school in the city. Her parents are also considering changing her name by an affidavit to ensure her privacy on the new campus.

 “It is difficult for my daughter to study in the same school. She herself is not willing to go back to the place where she was tortured so brutally. We agree with her decision. We will not feel safe with her being in the midst of teachers and group-D staff who could not protect her,” the girl’s father told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 The family will be approaching the acting principal of the school, after it reopens on January 4, to seek a transfer certificate for their daughter so that she can get admitted to another south Kolkata school.
 
 “I want my daughter to study in a school that, ideally, has no male teacher and has better surveillance, better caregivers and a better overall environment. I have spoken to some schools and all of them said they would be happy to provide admission to my child,” the father said. The lower-infant student has not attended sch-ool since the November 30 incident.
 
 The other significant decision that the family is considering is changing the girl’s name. “The former principal has already made my daughter’s name public by sending letters mentioning her name to thousands of parents. Some papers and TV channels, too, carried her name and photograph in violation of the law of the land, which seeks to protect the privacy of innocent victims like my daughter. The name and photograph were also randomly shared on social media. We just want a better future for our daughter and so plan to change her first name through a court affidavit,” the dad said.
 
 The parents have been trying their best to cheer up their daughter, especially during the festive season, but admit that she has not been her normal, jovial self. “She has lost her smile. She is still in trauma because of the assault and the multiple medical and identification tests and rounds of recording her statement, which have made her relive those terrible moments. We want her to forget the episode and come out stronger. She is trying and I am sure she will succeed in her attempt,” the father added.
 
 The four-year-old girl had returned home from school last November 30, crying and bleeding from her private parts. Her parents took her to a paediatrician who suspected it to be a case of sexual assault. The parents then questioned her and she told them that she had been abused inside the school toilet, which prompted them to lodge a complaint at Jadavpur police station.
 
 Two PT teachers of the school were arrested after the girl underwent a medical test. The school principal also came under scrutiny for initially claiming that no such incident had taken place and then for naming the girl in letters sent to guardians. She was relieved of her duty six days later following pressure from the girl’s parents and other guardians and intense scrutiny from the state child rights protection panel.
 
 
