SANGRUR: The armed   on January 5, in which a seven-month-old pregnant woman was shot in the abdomen, has turned out to be an attempt to  , according to Sangrur police.

 The police claimed the woman's husband had planned the robbery to get his wife and unborn child killed. The woman lost her   in the incident and is still undergoing treatment.
 
 SSP Sangrur MS Sidhu said on Wednesday that Rimpu and her husband Sandeep Singh were returning from her maternal home at Ratta Kheda village in Haryana on January 5 when their Swift car (HR-29-AD-9333) was stopped by some miscreants just short of a bridge on the Ghaggar near Moonak. He said the accused took away Rs 10,000 from Rimpu's purse and Rs 8,000 from Sandeep Singh. 
 
 They also divested the couple of their gold jewellery and fired a shot at Rimpu, which hit her in the stomach.A case of murder and dacoity and under the Arms Act was registered at police station Moonak. During investigations the police found some inconsistencies in the statement of Sandeep, which aroused their suspicion.
 
 Following sustained and aggressive questioning, Sandeep revealed that he along with his friend Rajat and Surendra Sharma had hatched the plot to eliminate Rimpu.
 
 The SSP said they arrested Sandeep and tracked down his accomplices, Rajat and Surendra Sharma. Cops with one of the accused after his arrest
 
 
 
 
 The cops also recovered the .315 bore pistol used in the crime along with bullets, as well as the looted cash and jewellery.
 
 The SSP said the weapon used in the crime was procured by Sandeep, while Rajat and Surender had staged the robbery. During interrogation, Sandeep Singh told cops that he was unhappy with his wife’s appearance, who was older than him, and wanted to get rid of her.
 
 After the robbery, Sandeep deliberately delayed getting Rimpu to hospital by driving her to one farther away in Tohana, from where he called up her brother. He then took her to CMC hospital in Hisar. He did this thinking that delay in getting medical aid would ensure that she died along with the child, the SSP said.
 
