BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister   on Monday ordered judicial inquiry into circumstances leading to mysterious disappearance of the keys of the  's treasury. The development came a day after Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati demanded a thorough probe into the matter. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress too had slammed the state government for its alleged negligence towards development of the temple.

 
 Naveen said a retired judge of Orissa high court will conduct the probe and complete the investigation within three months. The temple’s treasury has two chambers—outer and inner. On April 5, Puri district collector   had made a startling revelation and said the district administration did not have keys of the inner treasury of the shrine. His remark came a day after a 16-member team of experts desisted from opening the shrine’s locked inner treasury, which was last opened in 1985 to fetch ornaments for Lord Balabhadra. The experts had conducted maintenance inspection of the inner chamber of the treasury by peeping through a window of the outer chamber.
 
 “I am shocked that the keys of the inner treasury is missing. How did it happen? A thorough probe is needed,” the Shankaracharya told media persons at Puri. As per the written minutes of a recent meeting of the temple managing committee, Puri king   too expressed shock over the missing keys.
 
 Congress state president Niranjan Patnaik, who called on the Puri Shankaracharya on Sunday, blamed the state government for its alleged inefficiency in managing the shrine affairs. “Neither the temple administration nor the state government is committed for the development of the temple. How could they be so irresponsible towards the temple and Ratna Bhandar,” asked Niaranjan.
 
 The BJP too held a press conference here and sought a reply from chief minister   Patnaik on the ‘missing keys’ issue, involving Ratna Bhandar. Members of Jagannath Sena, a socio-cultural organisation, staged demonstration outside Jagannath temple on Sunday, demanding action against those, whose negligence led to the missing of the inner Ratna Bhandra’s keys.
 
 As per Jagannath temple act 1960, the keys of the inner treasury should always remain in the district treasury. The inner treasury houses bulk of ornaments of the deities. “We searched the district treasury, but did not find the inner Ratna Bhandar’s keys. The temple administration did not deposit the keys in district treasury,” Agarwal was quoted as saying in media on April 5.
 
 Sources said the door of the inner treasury has three locks. During Ratna Bhandar inspection on April 4, talks were doing the rounds that the members of the inspection team failed to open the inner treasury owing to absence of keys. The experts then explained that they did not unlock the room as they could clearly conduct a visual inspection of the inner treasury by standing in the outer treasury through a grille. 
 
 Sources said the temple administration is likely to move the state government, seeking permission to break the locks of the inner Ratna Bhandar. “We already raised the issue in managing committee meeting last month. Members agreed to apprise the government to break the locks,” a temple official said.
 
