KOCHI: For a change, the celebrations at Kochi, to ring in the New Year, got over without much hiccups on Sunday midnight with partygoers vouching for the festive fervour. 

 Police officers maintained that while 1,030 cases were registered in Kochi range for drunken driving, no other major law and order issue - except some minor clashes - was reported in the city.
 
  ACP K   said additional forces were deployed in the city to ensure that no untoward incident happened.
 
 Officers said that 1,250 police officers were deployed in Fort Kochi, 750 police personnel were managing the crowd at   during ISL match while another 1,000 personnel were dedicated for security management in Ernakulam and Thrikkakara.
 
 "Officers were given directives to expect chances of unruly behaviour from the partying crowd as they would be reacting 'under influence'. Personnel were given strict orders not to interfere with the crowd unless a law and order violation happened. Officers managed to maintain security while allowing celebrations to continue without any shortcomings," said Laljy.
 
 Meanwhile, partygoers said that the experience at parties in star hotels were different this year and they had a gala time. "The crowds were different and we saw more family participation. More than the usual crowd, it seemed like more Kochiites had taken interest in these parties," said Abin Durai, an attendant at a New Year party at a city hotel.
 
 Few hotels even came up with various contests at the party so as to retain this clientele.
 
 "A city hotel had offered a foreign trip and free stay at suite rooms to winners of contests at the party. Ticketholders at the party - who danced under a particular fan at the hall - was given a suite room while other contest winners were given merchandises by organizers. The overall experience was fun," said Vishnu Bhasker, another partygoer.
 
 While families preferred parties organized by hotels, youth flocked to Fort Kochi for the carnival. "The crowd had started flowing to Fort Kochi by late evening and by 8pm the entry to west Kochi was restricted. A huge crowd, most of them who had left the ISL match that ended by 7.30pm, assembled at   to celebrate New Year," said an officer.
 
 Meanwhile, officers took strict action against illegal activities that went on during New Year celebrations. The motor vehicles department (MVD) cancelled 37 licences after drivers were arrested for drunk driving and rash behaviour. Various violations, including jumping signal, were fined. Fifteen persons were booked for driving without a licence while a total fine of Rs1,30,000 was collected by   during the drive that started at 5pm on Sunday and went on till 3am on Monday.
 
 The range police registered 180 cases for drinking in public space and 105 cases for creating nuisance under influence. One case for misbehaving with a woman was also registered while three cases were registered for display of obscenity in public.
 
