Guntur: In a shocking discovery, it has come to light that some Guntur Municipal Corporation ( ) staffers have illegally diverted funds from the municipal commissioner’s bank account.

 The fraudsters managed to route Rs 28 lakh and completed the process to divert another Rs 42 lakh from the commissioner’s account in the last week. Sources said a separate amount of Rs 2.85 lakh was also withdrawn by the accused. Shocked by the revelation, 
 
 GMC commissioner Shrikesh B Lathkar instructed the freezing of the account. The commissioner asked the additional commissioner Ramachandra Reddy to   the issue and submit a report by Monday.
 
  The GMC commissioner will lodge a complaint with the police soon after receiving the additional commissioner’s probe report.
 
 The role of two-three employees of GMC and at least one staffer at the district treasury is being suspected behind the scandal. The courage with which the staffer tampered the commissioner’s account has rattled the administration. The senior officials observed that this incident brings to light the deep-rooted corrupt in GMC.
 
 The state government remits salaries of all GMC employees directly into their bank accounts linked with the district treasury. 
 
 However, the PF, GPF, VPF and LIC subscription of the employees are routed into the commissioner’s bank account through the treasury. The accounts department in GMC subsequently diverts these funds into respective employee’s PF, GPF and LIC accounts after obtaining the drawing and disbursal (competent) authority’s approval.
 
 In GMC, additional commissioner, municipal health officer, city planner and superintending engineer (SE) are the competent authorities to route amounts parked in the commissioner’s account through commissioner. 
 
 The treasury allows withdrawals from the commissioner’s account only after obtaining the drawing and disbursal official’s signature on the proposal.
 
 Sources said GMC had given appointment to S Naresh on compassionate grounds and posted him in the health wing in December. His salary account was added to the treasury list in February.About Rs 28 lakh was remitted to Naresh’s account in March.
 
 
