Noida: Even after three weeks of the UP (fixation of fees) ordinance being enacted, parents of students studying in private schools in Gautam Budh Nagar are still waiting for the constitution of the division-level committee mandated in the ordinance to   by schools and hear complaints about the same from parents.

 Most of the parents have already paid the fees hiked by the schools and those who haven't are waiting for the schools to either roll back the fee hike or come out with fresh fee structure according to the fee ordinance.
 
 While some of the schools, including Cambridge and   have sent emails to the parents saying that they have received a copy of the ordinance and are looking into their details. Most of the schools in Gautam Budh Nagar are yet to come out with any such notice.
 
 As reported by TOI on April 8, most institutions have already hiked fees with many resorting to a hike higher than as mandated in the ordinance, which takes 2015-16 as base year for the hike. It states that fee increase can be “equivalent to average percentage per capita increase of monthly salary of teaching staff of previous year provided fee increase shall not increase by latest available yearly percentage increase in consumer price index+ five % of fee realised from the student.”
 
 A meeting of joint directors (education) of three divisions, including Meerut, Agra and Aligarh and 15 district inspectors of schools (DIOS) of the districts falling under these divisions was held under the chairmanship of the additional chief secretary (secondary education) Sanjay Agrawal in Noida’s Sector 58 on Saturday where the implementation of the provisions of the fee ordinance was discussed at length.
 
 While there was no discussion about the objections raised by the parents in the meeting, it was made specific by the secretary that the fee charged by the schools in the first quarter will have to be refunded to the parents or adjusted in the second quarter if it is above that, which is mandated in the ordinance.
 
 On Saturday, a group of members of the   (ANSPA) and parents of Amity School, Sector 44 had met the Secretary and sought more clarity on the ordinance.
 
 ANSPA President Yatendra Kasana told TOI that the secretary has said that they have asked all the DIOSs to take a sample survey of two schools and get it approved from the secondary education department by first week of May.
 
 “Once approved, the same model will be replicated in other schools,” an education department official who was present in the meeting told TOI.
 
 The details of the committee have still not been shared by the Meerut division.
 
 Meanwhile, parents do not know when and how their grievances would be redressed.
 
 “We had met the DM on April 22 and submitted a letter to him describing how exorbitantly, the Amity school was charging fee. A representative had also met the additional chief secretary (secondary education) on Saturday and apprised him of the situation. However, it is not clear whom should we have to take our complaints as the committee is yet to be formed,” said a parent whose child studies in Amity school.
 
 According to the complaint handed over to DM BN Singh, the parents have complained about the “astronomical and unexplained” miscellaneous fees, air conditioner charges, annual charges, computer, sports fee and tuition fee.
 
 “Some of the parents have written to the school management seeking justification on the charges and relevance of the aforementioned components of the fees, but have still not received any response from the management,” reads the letter.
 
 The letter has been marked to the PM, UP CM, Secretary (department of school education & literacy education) and Chief Secretary of UP.
 However, there is no clarity on the fee regulatory committee which is still to be formed.
 When contacted, Meerut mandal commissioner did not respond to queries. 
 
 Renu Singh, Principal, Amity School told TOI that the fee has not been increased this year. "We have not affected an increase in fee this year. We have received the ordinance and a call will be taken on the same by the management," she said.
 
  Principal Dipannita Mondal confirmed that a message had been sent to parents and said that they were studying the fee ordinance. When contacted, Asha Prabhakar, Principal, Bal Bharati Public School, Sector 21 said that she had no comments to make. 
 
 Additional Chief Secretary (secondary education) Sanjay Agrawal told TOI that the committees have been formed in the Meerut division and the details of the same will be shared on Monday. "I will direct the joint directors (education) of Meerut to share the details of members of the committee. If the fee charged is being reduced when the fee ordinance is implemented, the school will have to adjust the remaining amount of fee in the next quarter," he said.
 
