CHANDIGARH: Missing out on berths in the recent cabinet expansion in Punjab last month, three senior   MLAs met party president   in Delhi on Tuesday to take up their grouses against the state leadership.

 The MLAs —   (Amloh), Rakesh Pandey (Ludhiana, North) and Amrik Singh Dhillon (Samrala) — claimed that Rahul assured them of “corrective action” and sought some time for the same.
 
 Meanwhile, Rahul deputed Congress general secretary   to look into the grievances of the MLAs.
 
 Dhillon said besides the seniority criterion that was totally ignored during the cabinet expansion, they also briefed Rahul about the functioning of the Congress leadership in the state. “Many new MLAs have not got a chance to meet chief minister   and if party continues to function like this, it will affect its prospects in the Lok Sabha election next year. The euphoria about Congress winning the election after 10 years seems to have waned already. Other MLAs too feel the same way,” he said.
 
 Nabha said Rahul agreed that it was unfortunate that Congress leaders who come from loyal Congress families had been neglected. “He was kind enough to give us a patient hearing for nearly 20 minutes. It was also pointed out that Pandey came from a family of freedom fighters and his (Nabha’s) family too had made sacrifices for the party,” he said.
 
 Sources said Rahul was unaware that Pandey was a six-time MLA, while the other two have won elections four times. After the meeting with Rahul, the three leaders seem to have dropped plans of further hardening their stance by considering options like resigning from party posts, they added.
 
 Later, the three MLAs met Gehlot and informed him about their resignations from panels of the assembly to register their protest on May 18. “He said that though our anger was justified, there was no need to resign. He later sought some more details from us, which we will furnish soon,” said Dhillon.
 
 Sources said the upset Congress MLAs highlighted the fact that while they were left out of the council of ministers, those who had won elections once or twice had made it to the cabinet. The three waited for the party to reach out to them after the swearing in of new ministers last month. However, the party leaders’ plan to appoint MLAs as legislative secretaries and heads of boards and corporations too failed to generate much enthusiasm.
 
 Pandey was chairman of the recently-constituted committee on public undertakings, Dhillon was chairman of the library committee and Nabha was a member of the committee of public undertakings.
 
 
