Mother’s love is the fuel that enables a normal human being to do the impossible, wrote author Marion C Garretty. These words rang true for Kochi-based  , a choreographer and performer when she converted her mother Sushma’s first poem to a six-minute-long music video. 
“My father passed away last November. While I was going through his belongings I chanced upon a hand-written Malayalam poem  . Later I came to know that it was my mother’s first poem that she had dedicated to her mom,” says Leena.
 
 As her 68-year-old mother is now suffering from ailments, Leena decided to give life to her poem and dedicate it to her on this Mother’s Day. “Love has the power to heal, so through this attempt I wish to present the best gift to my amma to spur her on,” she says, adding that it’s also a tribute to all mothers out there.The 39-year-old is also the niece of director  . 
 
 The music video, which is walk down memory lane for Leena about her mother and their relationship, was the result of two months of hard work, says the trained classical dancer, who has also scripted and directed the music video.
 Elaborating on the concept, Leena says, “In our society, we are only familiar with the ego clashes between teenage boys and their fathers. The same happens with mothers and daughters too. During childhood, every daughter loves their mother’s pampering but when she grows up especially during adolescence most of the girls get irritated by their mother’s interference in their life. The ego is not because of hatred but an outcome of pure love and care for each other.”
 
 The poem was transformed into a melodious song by Leena’s close friends Saumya Sanathanan, who composed the music, and  , who sang it.
 Writer and dancer   plays the mother who is a dance teacher while child artiste Thraya of Alorukkam fame, Leena’s daughter Nakshatra and her student Chatherine Biji play the role of daughter at various phases of her life.
 
 Meera, who is based in Thiruvananthapuram, tells us, “Being a dancer and mother of two young boys, to emote the motherly affection was not a challenge. But there were segments when the mother becomes angry at her daughter who hesitates to learn classical dance and thus the mother throws a wooden stick used to play thalam at her leg. I was hesitant to do that. The song though has a strong message about motherhood and mother-daughter relationship which every daughter can relate to her life.” 
 
