KOLKATA: The commissioning of the advanced version of   (ILS) on Thursday marked the evolution of a grass strip that served as the city’s rudimentary airport a century ago to an all weather facility today. The Rs 100 crore   will enable pilots to land and take off even in dense fog or blinding rain when visibility drops drastically.

 
 Though the services of the technology were not required on a fog-free Thursday when the minimum visibility was 1,500 metres between 7.30am and 8.30am, there was palpable excitement and relief among the   as it will dramatically reduce stress on five-six days every winter when everything went haywire. An hour of fog leaves nearly 2,500 passengers stranded at the airport. Another hour and the passenger count swells to 5,000, putting the facility under extreme strain. 
  
 “On days when extreme fog developed, operations were usually suspended between 5.30am and 8.30am. By the time the flights resumed, the terminal used to burst at the seams. There was a space crunch with not enough seats available. Washrooms turned messy. Outside, the car park got flooded with vehicles. Passengers were hugely inconvenienced, particularly the young and elderly and those with onward connections. The situation put terminal managers and airline officials under huge stress. With  , those harrowing days should be over,” said airport director Atul Dikshit.
 
 For pilots and airlines, the facility is both a boon and a challenge. While flights will no longer get diverted, turning schedules haywire and pushing up costs due to additional fuel, pilots have to be at the highest degree of alertness as the margin of error becomes wafer thin in CAT III operation.
 
 “In normal condition, a pilot gets comparatively more reaction time, and hence, the stress level is low. All CAT III approaches have to be on autopilot. That gives pilot less perspective, leading to higher stress. For any contingency like sudden disconnection of autopilot at the critical phase will require a pilot to be extremely alert and sure of his action,” pointed out veteran pilot Sarvesh Gupta.
 
 For airlines too, it is important to ensure that the crew is well rested so that fatigue does not creep in during critical landing phase. Also, systems checks are even more stringent as malfunctioning of auto pilot can spell trouble when an aircraft is about to land in near zero visibility conditions.
 
 
