

 
  The expressway, which drew thousands of homebuyers to this part of the Millennium City and triggered a massive real estate boom in the area, has ironically become the biggest hurdle before the overall growth of Gurgaon’s new sectors.
 
 Caught in numerous land and legal tangles, the 29km expressway, 18.9km of which is in Gurgaon, is running many years behind schedule, and there’s no clarity on its completion date yet.
 
 Even the national highway status granted by   last year has had no impact on the pace of construction of the road because NHAI is yet to take over the project and is waiting for land acquisition hurdles to be cleared by the Haryana government. People have got possession of their flats but are unable to move there due to the delay in the expressway project.
 
 “The incomplete Dwarka Expressway is a long pending issue, which needs urgent attention” —Anuj Shrimali posted on the Give Gurgaon Its Due campaign site
 
 “Government sold us dreams of metro connectivity and easy link with Delhi through Dwarka Expressway. Even after 11 years, none has materialized” —Prakhar Sahay posted on our campaign site
 
 What to expect: Huda has lately been on a demolition spree, bulldozing several structures in New Palam Vihar and Kherki Daula village to remove obstacles. The ongoing drive was launched following intimation from NHAI, which recently wrote to the Haryana chief secretary expressing its inability to start work on the e-way for the want of land
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The toll plaza has for long been a bone of contention between commuters, especially those who live near Kherki Daula and cross the stretch daily, and the government.
 
 Though the toll plaza operator in 2014 had allowed residents of 31 villages near the toll plaza tax-free passage after several protests, commuters continue to demand removal of the toll booths, which increased both their travel time and expense. Residents of the new sectors along SPR and Dwarka Expressway are exasperated that they should be asked to pay toll twice on their way to work and while returning home every day. The industry association in Manesar has also been demanding the removal of the toll plaza
 
 “Remove Kherki Daula toll plaza from its current location” —Amarjeet Kumar posted on our campaign site
 
 “Remove Kherki Daula toll, it will prove to be a game changer for the development of IMT-Manesar, drawing more business to the area” —Vivek Prakash posted on our campaign site
 
 “@mlkhattar Sir, When will U announce the final shifting of #kherkidaulatoll? Why it’s taking so long to shift a toll plaza placed within d #Gurugram city”—Vikash Pandey tweeted
 
 What to expect: The Haryana government has handed over land in Sehrawan near Manesar to NHAI for the shifting of the toll plaza. But villagers of Sehrawan and environmental activists have opposed the move, citing ecological concerns. Sehrawan is a wildlife corridor, and it is feared the toll plaza will disrupt that
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Scores of residential societies in the new sectors along Dwarka Expressway and Southern Peripheral Road have turned into islands due to lack internal roads or approach roads (the 24-metre-wide roads in the Master Plan).
 
 According to rules notified in 2012, through the Gurgaon Manesar Master Plan 2021, it is the responsibility of private developers to build internal roads. But on the ground, there are several instances of one developer building a portion of a road it was supposed to but another not doing so. Thus, approach roads to many housing societies in sectors 58-115 are just narrow muddy paths. In fact, it’s a common sight to see internal roads end abruptly in these parts of the city.
 
 First of all, the sector roads should be built and should be well lit so that residents feel safe while travelling in odd hours — Pankaj Singla posted on our campaign site
 
 “Proper infrastructure should be there, especially roads,” wrote Mohit. Karishma, another TOI reader, wrote, “We deserve better roads.”
 
 What to expect: Huda officials have admitted the connectivity problem could spell big trouble later, when more people start moving in. “If developers have raised the matter with the government, it will surely be addressed soon,” an official said.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  None of the plush residential complexes, which were sold with the promise of world-class infrastructure and amenities in the new sectors along Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) and Dwarka Expressway, has access to piped water.
 
 People living there are entirely dependent on water tankers and illegal borewells, exploiting groundwater tables that are depleting at an alarming rate across Gurgaon. Reason: the state government started work on laying water pipelines in 2013-14, almost six years after it had started giving licences to real estate developers for projects in the sectors 58-115.
 
 Currently, residents are paying Rs 1,000-Rs 2,000 per month per flat for water even as no one is quite sure about the source and quality of the water being supplied
 
 “Supply water through pipelines, instead of water tankers”—Tarun Puri posted on our campaign site.
 
 “No Govt. Almost all the residential societies (20K+residents) of New Gurgaon are still dependent on groundwater and which is a big threat to #natureenvironment #givegurgaonitsd”—Praveen Malik tweeted
 
 What to expect: Around 35% of work to lay pipelines is held up owing to land-related hurdles, encroachments and litigation. And though the initial deadline was 2017, authorities are not sure when piped water will reach household in the new sectors. Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) has, however, claimed work is on to supply water to sectors 58-67 in the first phase, followed by sectors 80-97
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Most societies in the new sectors are powered by diesel gensets installed by developers, who handed over their projects even before the power utilities could lay supply lines.
 
 Government policy suggests it is not mandatory for a developer to have a power line from the discom to get an occupancy certificate as long as it provides electricity one way or the other. Consequently, many developers, to avoid penalties for delays, handed over possession without waiting for government agencies to develop civic infrastructures.So when the world is trying to move towards cleaner and greener energy options, a large part of the Millennium City is burning millions of litres of diesel every day.
 
 Further, new sectors residents have to shell out almost two to three times more as power bills because of the input cost of diesel, which is factored into their bills.
 
 “24x7 power supply from discom”—Vineet Singh posted on our campaign site, summing up his biggest priority
 
 “New sectors need immediate electricity connections (from discom)”—Debapriyo Ghosh wrote.
 
 “Pitch dark (sector 58/59) road… this is the same spot where a man was found dead recently. Thousands of families live here. Please ensure street lights”—Peeyush tweeted
 
 What to expect: A discom official has said the government has plans to set up 42 substations of 66kV and 220kV to cater to the new sectors. But as of now, only one substation in Sector 72 has become operational and installation work for five others is under way. A tender has been issued for one more.
 
 Currently, the discom is supplying only 500-600 MVA (mega volt amp), and the five new substations will increase the capacity to 1,400 MVA.V 
 
 
  
 
