 will want to carry the momentum of winning their comeback game but they have a tough game against another winner of their first match, the Kolkata Knight Riders. 

 
 
 
 It will be a huge moment for the Chennai Super Kings fans who will get to see their beloved team in action after two years, and you can be sure the M A Chidambaram stadium will be packed to the rafters and there won't be much else apart from yellow seen at the ground.
 
 
 
 
 The Kolkata Knight Riders guys know the feeling, as the Eden Gardens, for their opening game, was also full of the KKR jerseys though there was a fair section cheering for   rather than the  . 
 
 
  
  
 
 Those who feel the franchises haven't quite caught the fan bases as is the case with the international football leagues will be surprised to see the following the   teams have. Also, don't forget that the IPL is only 10 years old and so the die hard fans will take a little time. Still, every franchise has a big following, especially on their home grounds.
 
 Chennai will hope that   fires, for he can take the game away from the opposition in a jiffy. For that to happen, the Chennai team needs a good start. If he is facing the quicker bowlers, Raina tends to look to hit from the first ball by backing away as he does not want to be seen getting out to a short ball. Of course, in T20 cricket, making room and playing through the off-side is a regular shot. 
 
 But, in recent times, Raina hasn't quite succeeded in playing it against the quicker bowlers simply because he is aiming to play it before he is settled. Once he is set then it's hard to stop him.
 
 Dhoni's tactics of going in with three spinners is a good one, as batsmen today are looking for the extra pace to heave the ball over the ropes and the slower the ball comes off the pitch that much more difficult for the batsmen to get the elevation as well as the distance.
 
 Kolkata does not have a big star in their ranks but the younger players are more than making up for it with their energy and enthusiasm. Karthik may have got the final over wrong against the Royal Challengers Bangalore, or more likely, Vinay Kumar got his line wrong. It's never easy to keep wickets as well as captain the team for the thought. 
 
