CHANDIGARH: Adding to the row around BJP president Amit Shah’s rally in Jind on February 15, the state unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has announced to serve him ‘pakodas’ (vegetable fritters).

 Haryana AAP in charge Navin Jaihind said party’s Jind district unit would gift pakodas to BJP chief Shah. “Unlike the ‘pakodas’ of violence and caste divide as cooked in BJP’s kitchen we shall gift him aalu (potato) and gobhi (cauliflower) ‘pakodas’ with a request to tell what he has in mind,” he said.
 
 Jaihind said people might thhink of it as a political statement but they were taking the ‘pakoda’ plan seriously as the Haryana government had pocketed nearly Rs 200 crore collected from over 20 lakh unemployed youths of Haryana.
 
 While citing figures, he said the Haryana government had collected Rs 200 crore as application fee from the 20 lakh candidates who had filled nearly 1 crore applications for 55,000 various posts in the state police.
 
 “This government just advertises the posts. Out of the 55,000 posts, the government has hardly provided employment to around 10,000 applicants. Hence people are forced to sell pakodas,” he said, adding that Shah and all senior leaders of BJP party should ask their children to sell ‘pakodas’ to demonstrate how to feed the family.
 
 Jaihind was briefing newspersons about the ‘Haryana Bachao Rally’ to be chaired by Delhi chief minister   in Hisar on March 25. He also attacked the BJP government for the law and order situation and time taken in action against ex-CM  .
 
 “BJP, Congress and INLD have misled the masses of Haryana over all issues. Let any party come and dare claim about a drop of water they have brought from the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal. So far as CBI chargesheet against former CM Hooda in the Gurugram land acquisition case is concerned, it is BJP’s ploy to bring him in its fold,” Jaihind said.
 
 “Since government has failed on all fronts and is resorting to framing political opponents in false cases, AAP has decided to intensify its stir. Kejriwal will blow the bugle from Hisar,” he said.
 
 
