By: 
 

 CHENNAI : Inspired by the Dandi March by Mahatma Gandhi which triggered a civil disobedience movement across the country, a group of 100 men led by   marched to   and extracted salt from sea water in April1930 to break the the salt law imposed by the British.
 
 But history texts make only passing mention about a salt march that took place in  .  , a Tamil author, has set about making a new generation aware of this historic event, with research she has used in a novel, ‘Uppu Kanakku’.
 
 On her inspiration to write the novel during the launch of its English translation ‘A Fistful of Salt’, at a book shop in Adyar, Vidya Subramaniam said the discipline and the dedication with which they carried out the entire event persuaded her to write the story. “I developed the idea for the novel while watching a documentary on theDandiMarch, and wantedto revivethediminished history of the participation of the south,” she added.
 
 The novel combines fictional characters with real characters and presents history with an interesting plot. The story details a character named Ananth who, on a short vacation at his great grandfather’shousein Mylapore, finds out about his family’s participation in the freedom struggle.
 
 The personal narrtive starts on present-day Mada Street in Mylapore and transports the reader to Vedaranyam and Lahore, spanning several decades — on something akin to a time travel experience.
 
 The chief guest at the event, MLA R Nataraj, said, “Rama Srinivasan has admirably brought out this translated text, holding the reader’s attention just as Vidya did with her Tamil version. The replication of wordslike ‘thatha’ and ‘kolluthatha’ in the English version exhibits the translator’s intention to create a familiarity and express thebeauty of the Tamil language.”
 
 Rama Srinivasan had been drawn to the writings of Vidya Subramaniam. “With Vidya agreeing, I got into translating this book, and I am so happy that I did it”.
 
 “ I am glad that I am able to achieve this dream of mine during my lifetime, by connecting to more audience with this translated text,” said Vidya Subramaniam.
 
 
