The one thing that strikes you when you talk to Abishek   is that he has his feet firmly planted on the ground. He knows that being the son of two popular film actors, he enjoys special privileges, which is perhaps why he also realizes that it takes more than a famous last name to make it big in the film industry. Speculation is rife about him following in his parents,   and Ambareesh’s, footsteps. Putting all gossip to rest, Abishek reveals to Bangalore Times that he is considering a few scripts at the moment and that work on his debut film should start by mid-2018.

 
 
 I only started thinking about it once I finished my post graduation. I was living abroad for a while and when I came back home, I was thinking about what I wanted to do with my life. Films is the one thing that has always intrigued me, but I never wanted to take it up as a profession. I am a movie buff; I have admired many actors and always wanted to emulate them. When I returned to Bengaluru, I thought, ‘OK, let me try this out.’ I am very blessed, and it’s probably easier for me to get these opportunities, so I decided to take it up.
 
 
 
 You get opportunities easier, you get noticed, you have your foot in the door… but that’s only one part of the process. Once you’re in, only your hard work and talent will keep you in the industry. Many people who come from privileged backgrounds don’t do well in films. You can enter the industry from many different paths, but staying on is always because of your talent and hard work. 
 
 
 
 They were quite pleased, but they told me that it is not easy. It’s not just glitz and glamour; there’s a lot of work that goes behind it. They told me that if I was prepared to do that, then I must give it my best shot, and that they will support me. And that’s what they’ve been doing.
 
 
 
 A lot. If I am considering films today, it’s because of them. If I was someone else’s child, I would probably have a 9-5 office job. I have been exposed to the film industry all my life and it’s all because of them, so I suppose that’s shaping it a lot already. We make decisions as a collective unit and they are helping me with my debut film as well. I rely on them for advice and guidance, and they have taken a lot of time out to help me.
 
 
 
 I have an acting teacher here; she is from Bengaluru. A lot of people like to go to Mumbai or New York to learn acting, but I figured if I want to act in   movies, I should learn from someone who has a knowledge of the local industry. My course will last a few more months, but with acting, you never really stop learning. I will continue to do so even after my first film.
 
 
 
 I just returned from a three-month course in martial arts and kickboxing from a premier fighting institutions in Thailand.
 
 
 
 I’d say I’m an OK dancer. I could get better, but I am doing my best.
 
 
 
 No, no. I was a very shy kid, I used to watch movies from afar. I would enact scenes to myself when no one was watching, but not to my mom and dad.
 
 
 
 It depends on my mood. I’ll watch anything from Godfather to The Lion King. I watched Mufti recently and thought it was amazing. I usually watch Kannada, Telugu and English movies.
 
 
 
 I am not eyeing anything as such, but if given an opportunity, I would love to work in Telugu films. But Kannada films will be foremost for me — this is my audience, this is my demographic, this is the place I call home, this is what has made us as a family. I want to make a name for myself in this industry and then think about anything else, if at all.
 
