CHENNAI: A day after 10 people were killed in police firing in   in the wake of anti-Sterlite protests, the   government on Wednesday shunted out district collector N Venkatesh and superintendent of police P Mahendran. 

 
 The transfer order came a few hours after police opened fire again for the second day to disperse protesters near the Tuticorin government hospital. A 22-year-old youth died in the melee, raising the death toll to 11.
 
 Tirunelveli collector Sandeep Nanduri will replace Venkatesh, who has been posted as additional state project director of Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan. Nilgiris   Murali Rambha will be the new  , replacing Mahendran, who will be the new deputy commissioner Chennai traffic (North). D Shanmuga Priya is the new SP of Nilgiris.
 
 Opposition party leaders, who visited Tuticorin and commiserated with the injured on Wednesday, slammed the government for intelligence failure and 'mishandling' of the protests. They demanded the immediate transfer of the collector and SP, holding them responsible for the violence, their failure to anticipate the extent of protests and inability to assess the number of protestors, who marched towards the Tuticorin collectorate before violence broke out.
 
 Sandeep Nanduri was in the news in October 2017 when a labourer, who had submitted several petitions at the Tirunelveli collectorate complaining of harassment from loan sharks, set fire to himself, his wife and two minor daughters on the collectorate premises. All four died of serious burn injuries, prompting the collector to crack down on usury in the district.
 
 Failure to take control of the situation even after several smaller protests took place sans permission in his jurisdiction since February this year, is also seen as a reason behind SP Mahendran being shifted out. Kumarettiyapuram villagers in Tuticorin began their protest on February 12 and once again in a bigger fashion with about 40,000 protesters on March 24 at VVD junction in the city. The protesters further agitated in 20 more places often after the date, all ignored by the SP despite inputs from the state intelligence wing.
 
 They organised a protest at Chidambara Nagar bus terminus on March 24. However, the district SP Mahendran didn't take it seriously and the protesters agitated in 20 more places every day from March 24 onwards. 
 
 
