SHILONG: In the run-up to the assembly election, Christian-majority   saw Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Prime Minister   fighting a pitched battle over religion. Rahul, who tried to stop people from voting for BJP by repeatedly raking up the issue of churches being burnt in faraway Madhya Pradesh and Christians being allegedly attacked for singing Christmas carols during poll campaigning, could not save the day for his party as regional parties didn't lend any credibility to it. 

 Congress played the religion card to such an extent that Modi had to explain at an election rally at Phulbari in the Garo Hills that it was his government at the Centre which had come to the rescue of persecuted Christians of Indian-origin in foreign lands. "I want to tell the people of Meghalaya that my government mobilised all its resources to free 46 Kerala nurses, mostly Christians, from IS captivity in Iraq last year. When Father   was abducted by Taliban in 2015, we rescued and united him with his family members. At one point, his family had lost all hope but we didn't. It was a great moment of joy when we brought him back alive," Modi had said at Phulbari.
 
 When Union tourism minister KJ Alphons had announced a Rs 70-crore package for the development of places of worship across the state, two churches in Meghalaya had turned down the offer. Rahul, while campaigning for his party in the state, had raked up the issue and criticized BJP for allegedly trying to "buy" the Church. 
 
 Though BJP won only two seats this time, it still managed to be a part of the government as United Democratic Party led by Donkupar Roy, Hill State People's Democratic Party, People's Democratic Front and National People's Party decided not to align with Congress which won 21 seats. "Regional parties in the northeast were never close to Congress which failed to keep them in good humour. This is the reason why these parties tilted towards BJP and Meghalaya is no exception," said Daniel Thabah, a Shillong youth. 
 
 Thabah added that religion did seem to work for Congress initially as people were concerned. "But by the last phase of campaigning, most people were simply tired of this rhetoric as the   hardly raised any issue pertaining to its rule or development in the state," he said. Echoing the same view, a political analyst said, "The regional parties, despite having differences with BJP, have come together to form a coalition government in the state. This says a lot about the 'fatigue factor' with Congress." 
 
 Paul Lyngdoh, working president of United Democratic Party (UDP), said, "Congress raised the Hindutva issue prior to the election to deflect attention from the core areas of development in which they have failed." UDP will be the second largest constituent in the new coalition government to be led by National People's Party president Conrad Sangma. 
 
 
