Ludhiana: Khanna-based Tarun Sharma, 26, a son of vegetable vendor, has made the country proud by clinching gold in the World Para-Karate Championship held in Hungary.

 Tarun represented India in senior male handicapped category (50%) and defeated defending champion from Italy in kata fight (demonstration fight) in the final.
 
 Karatekas from 119 countries participated in the two-day world championship.
 
 Tarun, who landed in the city on Thursday, claimed that it was a great feeling to win gold in an international tournament. He was the only player from India to qualify for the tournament.
 
 “I was selected for the world championship after I gave my best in the trials conducted by the Para-Karate Federation of India two months back in Ambala,” he added.
 
 “But it seems that my happiness will not last long as I had to repay a hefty loan taken to bear my travelling expenses for the championship. I got no financial support from the government as well private companies,” Tarun said.
 
 “My father has been working as a vegetable vendor in Khanna for the past eight years. I have been running from pillar to post to get some financial aid or job in a government sector to fulfill my dream of winning a medal in Para-Olympics,” he added.
 
 “I believe the only way to get government attention is to win a medal in Para-Olympics to be held in Tokyo in 2020. But before that I have to qualify for the tournament to bring change in the sport on the ground level,” he said.
 
 His coach Rajesh Joshi said, “It was not easy to win a gold for country. He had covered a long journey to reach this level. He was honoured with best player of the tournament award which is a really proud moment for the country as well.”
 
 “I know him since he was six years old and his father had come to my academy to enrol Tarun in my karate academy. He has a gold medal in an international tournament after 15 years of hard work,” said Joshi.
 
 Tarun’s father Ram Murti Sharma said, “My family is already facing hardship. At a time when meeting day to day expenses is difficult, continuing with the sport at such a level is not less than a battle. Tarun has set an example for others by clinching a medal for the nation. I am proud of my son.”
 
 “I just hope that both the Union and state governments lend him a helping hand now when he has already proved his mettle in the international arena,” he said.
 
 Last year, Tarun had won gold in 18th Milo International Open Karate Championship held in Kuala Lumpur.
 
 
