GURUGRAM: The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning ( ) dismantled the iron   installed on internal roads of   on Monday. The action was taken following a complaint on chief minister’s window portal against the gates, which the complainant claimed to have obstructed the free flow of traffic.

 District town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma said, “Gates installed at the entry and exit points in licensed colonies are   if the RWA has not taken necessary approval in accordance with the prescribed rule. In January 2014, DTCP had issued a guideline for installation of gates in residential colonies,” said Sharma, adding the gates were illegal.
 
 Elaborating further, assistant town planner (ATP) Amit Madholia said, “As per the rule, a committee headed by the deputy commissioner is empowered to approve installation of gates if the RWA is able to prove that gates are essential for security and safety of residents and it will not have any adverse impact on traffic flow.”
 
 As per the rule, only boom- type manned gates are allowed. Installation of unmanned gates are not allowed in any circumstances, said ATP Narendra Kumar.
 
 “A total of six gates were demolished, which were installed in contravention of 2014 policy of the department,” said Kumar.
 
 The residents welfare association (RWA) of Palam Vihar, which had installed the gates, levelled allegations against the department for taking selective action against the colony.
 
 Sunil Yadav, RWA president of Palam Vihar said, “The RWA is managing the infrastructure of the colony, road and sewerage that were constructed with the money of the residents. The government has not spent a penny on our colony so they have no right to remove our facility,” said a furious Yadav, adding that none of the residents of the colony had complained against the gates.
 
 However, the shop owners of  , a market in the area, are happy with the removal of gates. “Installation of gates had affected our business as it had disrupted the connectivity of market with the colony,” said Gaurav, a shopkeeper.
 
 Gaurav added the shop owners are not against the installation of gates and that they are trying to resolve the issue through consultation.“Shop owners are only requesting to keep the gates open from 6am to 10pm.”
 
 
