GURUGRAM: An   response has revealed the clearance from the Union ministry of environment and forest (MoEF), necessary to set up the   waste treatment plant (WTP) in the Aravalis, is still pending.

 “Case is under process,” states the RTI response, a copy of which is with TOI, which had demanded to see the clearances granted by MoEF for setting up the WTP in Bandhwari. Moreover, the forest department appears to have no clue on the acquisition of forest land by MCG to set up the plant. “Proposal under FC (Forest Conservation) Act, 1980 for 34.17 acres in Bandhwari has been applied for diversion by MCG… The area applied for diversion falls under Aravali Plantation and gair mumkin pahad… Aravali 1992 Notification is (also) applicable on the 34.17 acres… [However] no details of land acquired by MCG are available in this office,” states the response by the forest department.
  
  
 The norms state that environmental clearances are required from the Union ministry, as the area falls under the Aravali Notification, 1992. “Permission from the union ministry is necessary, whether to acquire land under the Aravali Notification, 1992, or get permission to set up a WTP on Aravali Notification 1992 land. No authority in the state can issue clearance to run the WTP on land falling under Aravali Notification. It is such a major violation that the   (HSPCB) can prosecute the concerned authority under Section 5 of EPA Act, 1986, and file a complaint in the green court,” said a HSPCB official, requesting anonymity. 
 
 Vivek Kamboj, who had filed a petition in the NGT, demanding reallocation of the Bandhwari WTP from the Aravalis, called it a “criminal act”. “Criminal action should be taken against officials who have been involved in setting up the plant and the waste-to-energy project at Bandhwari without required clearances. All officials should be prosecuted and strict action taken against them, as waste dumping in eco-sensitive Aravalis has caused irreversible damage to the entire ecosystem. Groundwater and aquifers passing from Bandhwari have got polluted. Villagers are forced to live under stink and unhygienic conditions. All this happened when clearances are still pending,” said Kamboj.
 
 Swati Sambyal, programme manager (waste) at   (CSE), pointed out that the waste-to-energy plant, which has already been deemed a failure in Delhi, will make the situation worse. “Bandhwari WTP is located right in the middle of eco-sensitive Aravalis. I don’t think it meets all required clearances under the Municipal Solid Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 2016. 
 
 “The waste-to-energy plant can make it worse, as mixed waste is going directly to the site. Segregation at household-level is very important, like the many residential societies in Gurugram that have set up decentralised waste composting plants. Therefore, having waste-to-energy model, which has already failed in Delhi, doesn’t make sense,” she said.
 
 
