Sancta Maria International School was abuzz with excitement as students observed their first Swachh Bharat initiative under the banner ‘India: I care’. The children went to Golconda fort and campaigned for a cleaner and greener India. Their voice of determination and courage resonated with care for their country. The children later enjoyed an eventful night-out organised by the school.

 
  
 
 The management of Delhi Public School, Nadergul, organized their annual ‘Baby’s Night Out’ for the students of class I. The theme of the event was based on the Delores Philosophy of making students independent and responsible in work, daily activities and studies. This camping experience aimed to foster healthy and positive development in the children. The evening started with the assembly and a variety of activities like horse ride and camel ride for the children. Several fun games were organised in the play zone. The children enjoyed the evening by dancing around a bonfire with their teachers. After dinner, they watched their favourite cartoon movie and enjoyed a magic show. At bedtime, the children listened to stories and a lullaby from their teachers. The next morning, they woke up to the traditional ‘Suprabhatham’ followed by jogging and meditation along with the principal and teachers. The children were then served breakfast and given a gift pack as a token of their first night-out by the school management. The parents thanked the school for organising this event to inculcate a feeling of independence and responsibility among their young ones.
 
 
 
 A‘blessing ceremony’ was organised for the outgoing batches of class X and XII of DRS International School. Teachers showered their blessings on the students and wished them the best for their future. The day started with invoking the blessings of the almighty with a prayer song by the teachers. The outgoing students reminisced their days at the school and shared their memories with teachers and friends. It created moments of nostalgia among teachers, students and their parents. The students were then called upon to light a candle of hope, and walk on to the stage to collect their mementos from their teachers and guides. Principal Muradia blessed the students for their forthcoming examinations. The students made a promise to keep in touch with the school and each other.
 
 
 
 DDMS (AMS)   won the Global Innovative Schools Award, 2018, sponsored by BITS PILANI,  , for its performance in academics, use of technology, cultural inclusion and social awareness. Principal Anjali Razdan received the award at the ceremony in Dubai.
 
 
 
 Students of St Joseph’s School, Asmangadh Palace, Malakpet, celebrated their Sports Day at Lal Bahadur Stadium, Hyderabad. The chief guest was A Dinakar Babu, IAS, vice-chairman and managing director of Sports Authority of Telangana state. The chief guest unfurled the school flag and released balloons to mark the commencement of the program. In his address, he extolled the school management for making sports an integral part of the curriculum. He congratulated the sports champions who carved a niche at the national-level competitions. Head girl T Kavya Priya Reddy was the torch bearer of the event. The guests enjoyed various displays and athletic events. Headmistress UA Sundari and administrative officer U Alexander Reddy congratulated the participants.
 
