Football, it is said, flows in the Goan’s veins. But thrust a hockey stick into his or her hand and the stereotype takes on a whole new hue. Here, though, lies one of sport’s biggest conundrums. Hockey in Goa wallows in the ghetto. But when it comes to the diaspora, the ball-and-stick game fosters Goa as performers on the world stage.

 
  won a gold medal as a member of the Wizard Dhyan Chand’s invincibles at the 1936 Berlin Olympics, thereby making a strong statement about the Goan penchant to present hockey as football with a stick. A versatility that has made Goans a coveted factor in teams worth their salt.
 
  
 
 Came the 1948 London Olympics, five Goans including the legendary goalkeeper Leo Pinto, emulated Karachi-based Fernandes. Walter D’Souza, Maxie Vaz, Lawrie Fernandes and Reginald Rodrigues completed the quintet.   reiterated the Goan claim to fame on a hockey pitch, one of scores spawned by the fabled Lusitanians in Mumbai down the ages.
 
 
 Established in 1909, the club showcased Goan talent that blossomed at educational institutes and work places. In time, the Lusitanians became a revered entity wherever the talk is hockey.
 
 
 The club’s twinkling sticks contrasted fortunes in Goa. Hockey enjoyed no patronage during Portuguese rule that ended in 1961. After Liberation, government support at best has been lukewarm. It told in the lack of finance, infrastructure and most crucially an artificial pitch. The deprivation has ensured Goan teams remaining cannon fodder in national championships.
 
 
 Mumbai-grown Goan players continued to perpetuate the irony. The fleet-footed   won gold at the 1980 Moscow Olympics and the robust Joaquim Carvalho coached India to a second Asia Cup gold medal in 2007.
 
 
 The Goan hockey phenomenon, however, refused to be confined to the subcontinent. Former India coach Cedric D’Souza, a product of Mumbai, presently guides Austria and scores of players have boosted the hockey stocks of their adopted countries down the ages.
 
 
 None more so than Ken Pereira, the now-retired Canada stalwart of 400 internationals, given the honour of carrying his country’s flag at the 2010 Delhi Commonwealth Games.
 
 
 Toronto-born Pereira, whose parents hail from Tivim, formed the hub in a clutch of players of Indian origin comprising Goans and Punjabis. “For me as a Goan, I was very proud to play for Canada and represent my country at the highest level,”
 
 
 said the former sparkling midfielder, reflecting on an illustrious career. “There’s a long line of Goans before me who also have done great things for Canada and I am glad I could follow in their footsteps.
 
 
 “There was no better feeling than to be named flag bearer at the 2010 Commonwealth Games in New Delhi. Leading my country, holding the Canadian flag high above and walking into that stadium in the country my parents were born, was incredible. Something I will never forget,” the 44-year-old said.
 
 
 Wayne Fernandes, Robin D’Abreo, John D’Souza and Luis Mendonca are but a few of other Goan warriors in Canada colours, who went on to boost the country’s coaching effort, their mentoring doing much to boost their sport overshadowed by the national obsession of ice hockey.
 
 
 In another continent across the Atlantic, Goans wielded their sticks and influence with aplomb. Kenya rode on the eminence — and bitter rivalry — of the Goans and vanguards of the game, the Sikhs.
 
 
 Alu Mendonca, an electrifying left-winger presented the elan and enterprise of the Goan on a hockey pitch. Silu Fernandes and namesake Hilary were others among scores of Goan sorcerers wielding the stick.
 
 
 Sadly, though, when Kenya made the 1971 World Cup semifinals in Barcelona for the only time, Leo Fernandes was the lone Goan in the team and just missed out on a bronze medal when India scored in extra-time.
 
 
 Goan women were not going to be left out of the mix. Zulema Collaco De Souza had done much to boost Ugandan hockey. After fleeing from dictator Idi Amin’s tyranny, she took her pedigree as a player, coach and umpire to Canada where she developed the Goan Overseas Association team which produced a spate of international players.
 
 
 In India, Eliza Nelson Mendonca led her team to the 1982 Asian Games gold medal in New Delhi. The Pune-based Eliza was part of a clutch of Goan stars such as Selma D’Silva, Margaret Toscano, Lorraine Fernandes and Donita D’Mello to do the tricolour proud.
 
 
 Back in Goa, it took many from the diaspora to sow the seeds of life for the sport. Ask Cyril D’Cunha, a former Lusitanian player and captain of the first ever Goan team to the National championship. “Several Goan players from East Africa tried to get the game going in Goa during their visits,” he recollected. “Devoid of proper grounds, it was tough going. However, we stuck to our task. Even if it meant transporting the goal posts by handcart to a ground that was available.”
 
 
 Come hell or high water, it appears, exponents from distant lands paraded consummate skills while creating a legacy that still provides a beacon of hope for Goa’s latent talent waiting an eternity for deliverance.
 
