NEW DELHI: After pushing radical reforms in the Indian cricket board (BCCI) in the face of some hostile bowling from state associations, the   on Tuesday agreed to rethink its contentious rules like one-state, onevote that ousted historical cricket bodies in Maharashtra and Gujarat as also Railways and Services from the board.

 
 
 
 The   also said it would rethink its July 2016 judgment capping the number of national selectors at three and the insistence that they must have played Tests. “There are many experienced players like Rajinder Goel and Padmakar Shivalkar, who excelled in domestic cricket yet did not play Tests. We must look for experience, not the number of Tests played by the selectors,” the SC said.
 
 
 
 Going by the one-state, one-vote rule, Maharashtra got just one vote instead of four it had through Maharashtra Cricket Association, Cricket Club of India, Mumbai CA and Vidarbha CA. Similarly, Gujarat was reduced to one member in BCCI instead of the earlier three through Gujarat CA, Baroda CA and   CA.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud displayed fine cricketing sense in dealing with management of the game and assured parties that it would finalise the   (BCCI)’s draft constitution on May 7 and, thereafter, state associations must sync their constitutions with the BCCI’s.
 
 The bench told Maharashtra Cricket Association and other state cricket bodies not to hold elections on the basis of self-amended constitutions till the court finalised the BCCI constitution. The SC asked amicus curiae Gopal Subramanium to prepare a chart of the draft BCCI constitution and seek suggestions from state associations by May 7.
 
 A significant fallout of Tuesday’s hearing was the SC recognising that the Justice R M Lodha panel’s reforms report and the apex court’s July 18, 2016 judgment might have erred by adopting a rigid stance on the one-state, one-vote norm as several cricketing bodies, despite their long association with the sport in India, would have lost their say in management of the game at the national level.
 
 “We may change one-state, one-vote norm. We are not against north-eastern states getting a vote each. They must also come up. When one points out number of no-balls bowled by a north-eastern team in a match, it is an injustice to them. If  , with years of effort and investment, can become a Test playing nation, why not north-eastern states?” the bench asked.
 
 “One-state, one-vote criteria would leave out several historical cricket associations in Maharashtra and Gujarat from having a say in the management of cricket in India through BCCI,” the bench added.
 
 “We are also in principle for inclusion of Railways and Services,” the bench said. These two organisations had been playing Ranji Trophy and other domestic tournaments organised by the BCCI as founder members of the cricket board and recruited a large number of sportspersons every year based on their performance at national level sports tournaments. But the SC’s July 2016 judgment had ejected them as well from BCCI’s membership on the ground that they did not represent any state.
 
 A counsel pointed out, “Vidarbha is Ranji Trophy champion this year, yet Vidarbha Cricket Association is out of BCCI. Mumbai has won Ranji Trophy 45 times, yet Mumbai Cricket Association is ousted from BCCI under the one-state, one-vote norm.”
 
