KOCHI: The changes brought in law that allows   to accept unlimited funding from foreign companies has been challenged before the   in a public interest litigation (PIL). Through such funding, the allegiance of the parties would be to the donors rather than the electorate, the PIL said.

 In addition to the central government and Election Commission of India, Congress, BJP, CPM, and CPI have been named as opposite parties in the PIL filed by   of Kozhencherry through advocate Liju V Stephen.
 
 While there was no provision in the original   of 1956 for making contributions to political parties, it was amended in 1960 to allow up to Rs 25,000 or 5% of average annual net profit. After much debate, donations to political parties was again banned in 1969 through an amendment. But in 1985, the ban was lifted again and the 5% limit was reintroduced. In 2013, the limit was raised to 7.5% of the annual profit. Through the 2017 amendment, the limit on donations was lifted, thereby allowing companies to make unlimited contributions. The amendment to Section 182 was published on the gazette on March 31, 2017, the petition said.
 
 Similarly, Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act of 1976 was introduced to ban foreign contributions to political parties. However, the restrictions were lifted through a new proviso introduced to Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act 2010. Also,   Act of 1951 was amended in 2016 to allow political parties to accept contribution from companies.
 
 The combined effect of these amendments is that the right of citizens to conduct a free and fair election is corrupted or polluted, the petitioner contends.
 
 “The aftermath of the election would be that the Indian corporates and the foreign institutions would have a direct or indirect control over the elected government and the elected representatives, thereby influencing the policies and regulations in their favour and that would be detriment to the welfare of the citizens,” the PIL stated.
 
 The petitioner is seeking a court declaration that the amendments made to Companies Act, Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, and Representation of People Act are unconstitutional.
 
