 is going places, and quite literally so! The actress has been globetrotting for her digital projects and has just returned from the Maldives. Talking about her latest trip, the actress said, “It was a work-cum-pleasure trip. I fell in love with the Maldives. It’s a beautiful place! I was there for a photoshoot and Maldives, with all its natural beauty, had just the right setup. These days, I have been reviewing hotels that invite me to stay and write about them. Other than the airfare, everything else is on the house. I think it’s a great learning opportunity for me. Now, I know so much about the digital platforms and social media,” said our Calcutta Times Fresh Face 2011.

 
  
 
 
 
 According to Tridha, travelling is the best way to learn about people and the socio-economic condition of a place. She said, “Earlier, I never liked to travel alone, but now I enjoy it. I like to travel across the city, sightseeing and tasting local cuisine. That way, I get to learn about the history of the place too. Also, I get to meet so many interesting people. Travelling solo makes you more responsible.”
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Come June and the actress will be travelling to the   for an acting workshop. “Travelling has become a passion for me now. I find it enriching in many ways. It is also a stress buster. In the Maldives, I tried scuba diving, which was an experience of a lifetime. Also, I had various kinds of lobsters, which I’d probably never get to eat again,” said Tridha with a smile.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 On the work front, Tridha will soon be doing a web series with a reputed Bollywood director. “I can’t disclose much about the project now. But I can assure you that it will be one of a kind. Recently, I was offered to play a pivotal character in the remake of the popular Hindi serial,  , but I had to turn it down as serials take a lot of time, which I will not be able to devote right now,” said Tridha.
 
 Any Bengali film in the offing? “Well, talks are on. Let’s see,” Tridha signed off.
 
