Television actor  , who played   in the show 'Ek Shringaar- Swabhiman', is on a break right now. He’s chilling at his home in Noida, and says he likes to play cricket with the kids in his colony in Sector 36. Sahil was born in Delhi and later, his family relocated to Noida, and Sahil says that the city has been lucky for him as he got his first break in Noida.

 
 
 Sahil says, “After my graduation, I got to know that a clothing brand was looking for some models and for which they organised a contest at a mall in Sector 18. I took part in that contest and got selected. I also got my first portfolio made in Noida. So, I can say that Noida has been lucky for me in more than one way.”
 Sahil recalls, “When my father saw my inclination towards acting, he motivated me to go to Mumbai. He gave me two years to accomplish my goals. I struggled for both the years, but when the second year was about to end, I got selected for the show PS I Hate You.”
 
  
  Sahil Uppal
 
 
 
 Sahil was born in Delhi, and had shifted to Noida at a young age. “Main sabse zyada yahan ka khana aur roads miss karta hoon. Roads in Mumbai are not that well-maintained. I love the non-vegetarian dishes of Delhi. Dilli ka khana koi beat nahi kar sakta. Restaurants near   are the best. I love their seekh kebab and chicken curry,” he says.
 Sahil, who did his graduation from  , would rarely go to college. He admits, “Main apne college bahut kam aur dosto ke college zyada gaya hun. I would only go to my college to play table tennis.”
 
 
 
 Delhi holds a special place in Sahil’s heart as a lot of his ‘firsts’ have been in Delhi. “I auditioned for my very first modelling contest in Delhi and ended up winning it in the Delhi circle. My first date was in CP. Jama Masjid was my first visit to a historical site. So a lot of important events of my life have happened in Delhi. I get nostalgic every time I visit the city,” he says.
 
 
 
 Driving is Sahil’s passion, which is why the actor ditched all the regular means of transport and drove to Noida from Mumbai this time. “I love driving. So to make the best of this break, I decided to drive from Mumbai to Noida. During my struggling years, I really wished I could buy a jeep. Later, when I got success in my career, I fulfilled my wish and bought a car,” Sahil says.
 
  
  DIL TOH BACHCHA HAI JI! Sahil relives his childhood days as he plays cricket at a park in Sector 36 
 
 
 
 “When we shifted to Noida, the best thing was the open spaces here. Yahan Sector 36 ke parks mein hum bahut cricket khelte thay. Sometimes, elders in our colony would scold us saying, ‘Agar kahin ball lag gayi ya kisi ke ghar mein chali gayi toh?’ These memories are very special to me,” he says.
 Comparing Noida with Mumbai, the actor says, “Mumbai has no parks. Yahaan toh har sector mein ek park hai. You don’t find this in Mumbai.”
 Sahil adds, “A lot has changed in Noida over the years. Now, it has world-class malls and amazing infrastructure. It is nothing less than Delhi. The traffic is also well-managed here.”
 
 
 
 The actor tells us that he loves all the attention that he is getting after being part of ' '. “After Swabhiman, when I used to come to Noida, people would come and take selfies with me. Sometimes, they would say, ‘Kunal Chauhan, we really love you.’ It feels good that people know your real name apart from the character’s name. I am loving all the attention,” he says.
 
  
  
 
 
 Sahil has never participated in a reality show and says it might take time for him to sign up one. So would he like to be a part of a show like Bigg Boss? “May be not this year. I think I am not ready for a reality show. It’s not easy. I am too young right now and I need to be prepared to handle a reality show,” he says
 
 
