KOLKATA: A call to stop de-listing heritage properties and declare heritage precincts resonated in a citizens’ march on World Heritage Day on Wednesday.

 It was a silent rally that was taken out from   to the   to protest against “systematic destruction” of Kolkata’s priceless heritage. But the message it sent out in strongly worded placards was loud and clear and attracted a lot of attention as did the presence of participants, including actor Aparna Sen, writer Amit Chaudhuri and former bureaucrat Jawhar Sircar. At the KMC, the group submitted a letter, signed by people from across the country and beyond who care about the city’s heritage. Among the signatories were MIT’s Abhijit Banerjee and Esther Duflo, Chicago University’s Dipesh Chakrabarty, Cornell University’s Kaushik Basu, writers Amitav Ghosh and Upamanyu Chatterjee, filmmakers Anik Dutta and Gautam Ghose, and conservationists Partha Ranjan Das and Kamalika Bose. “Rome was not built in a day but destroyed in no time. So is our Kolkata. If we can’t stop the destruction, it will lose its charm,”said writer Kalyan Ray.
 
 
 Even as cities across the world continue to expand their heritage list, the KMC one has quietly been shrinking. “People get awed by Kolkata’s built heritage. It is time to stop its destruction,” said writer Amit Chowdhury, founder of Calcutta Architectural Legacies, which has been trying to convince the state and the civic body against the destruction of houses that lent character to Kolkata neighbourhoods.
 
 Former Union culture secretary and ex-CEO of Prasar Bharati Jawahar Sarkar said the clandestine delisting was systematic as the greed behind was overwhelming. “There are models of turning heritage buildings into viable business initiatives,” he said. Professor Supriya Chaudhury of Jadavpur University relived her memories of chance discovery of charms of life in the old mansions along SN Banerjee Road.
 
 “It is an attempt to bring the government and its heritage bodies to the table for a dialogue with concerned citizens,” said Pradip Kakkar of NGO Public.
 
 Every city that saved its heritage benefited in different ways, such as tourism and cultural regeneration, said GM Kapoor of Intach. “The government can do it if it wants,” he said.
 
