COLVA:   ‘Boy’ Pereira on Wednesday named Canacona PI Rajendra Prabhudessai as the police officer who threatened to shoot him if he did not confess to the desecration of crosses and temples across  . He also named top politicians who allegedly gave him several assurances in exchange for his confession. 

 Speaking to reporters outside the South Goa district court, Pereira disclosed the chronology of events leading to his arrest. 
 
 Beginning the account with his arrest on July 15 last year, Pereira said that early morning on the day, on his way back from the airport, a police vehicle stopped him. “Curchorem police inspector Ravindra Dessai got out of the vehicle and asked me if I was returning after breaking crosses,” he said.
 
 “I answered in the negative and he told me to follow them to the police station in my vehicle,” Pereira said, adding that at the station he was subsequently placed in lock-up. He alleged that Prabhudessai later took him to a room “with no CCTV cameras” where, at gunpoint, he forced him to admit to having carried out the desecrations and to give a written confession. 
 
 Stating that South Goa SP Arvind Gawas also arrived there, Pereira alleged he too asked him to confess.
 
 “Then, chief minister  , TCP minister Vijai Sardesai and Curchorem MLA   arrived. Parrikar said he was under pressure from the Centre to nab the culprit, and ordered me to accept the cases. He promised my nephew a government job and me money. He also promised that the courts would release me in two-three months,” Boy said, adding that he agreed as he thought he could trust them.
 
 PI Prabhudessai said, “Gawas and other police officers were present during the interrogation, which is video recorded. He (Pereira) confessed to the crimes through a casual interaction. He even said that he had desecrated the Mahavir statue in the Miramar Children’s Park.”
 
 SP Gawas said Pereira disclosed 158 desecrations, the majority of which police did not register. 
 
 “We chargesheeted only 56 cases. All his interrogations and confessions are video recorded,” Gawas said.
 
 
