NAGPUR:  , who has performed various roles at   (VCA), is now gearing up for an international assignment. The former Vidarbha skipper has been appointed as   curator and is expected to join it soon.

 
 The 51-year-old former allrounder and wicketkeeper will work with incumbent BCB chief curator Gamini Silva from Sri Lanka. The former Ranji Trophy coach was interviewed by BCB CEO Nizamuddin Chowdhury in early February. Chowdhury was very impressed with Hinganikar’s knowledge.
 
 “The board is all set to appoint another curator Praveen Hingnikar, alongside present chief curator Gamini Silva soon,” Chowdhury had said recently.
 
 It was the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI), which recommended Hinganikar’s name when BCB asked for some good curators.
 
 “The BCB management were happy with him. He has done well as a neutral curator in the last two years. I wish him good luck for his tenure. He was willing to go. It’s good opportunity for him,”  , chairman, BCCI pitch and grounds committee, told TOI.
 
 Hinganikar has done a decent job at VCA. “Hinganikar passed the curators certification exam and also completed a Level 1 curators’ course.
 
 He has done well in the exams conducted by the BCCI. He was always among top five (in India). He is very competent and sensible curators. He deserved this opportunity,” Daljeet said.
 
 Apart from working as a curator, Hinganikar also owns an academy. The cricketers at his club would be missing his vital guidance.
 
 The former Vidarbha skipper successfully filled in the big shoes of Kishore Pradhan, who was one of the top curators of the country, in 2008.
 
 Hinganikar looked after the VCA Jamtha wicket, which was praised by many current and former Indian cricketers. Later, Amar Karlekar replaced him and served a controversial term when ICC rated the Jamtha wicket ‘poor’ after India-South Africa Test in 2015 ended inside three days.
 
 The Jamtha wicket was also on spotlight during ICC Twenty20 World Cup in 2016 when most of the matches ended up being low scoring.
 
 Hinganikar again took the charge last year and tried to settle down the wicket. “I wish him good luck for his tenure. He was willing to go. It’s good opportunity for him. I am sure he will do well there and also learn new things from this stint,” Daljit added.
 
