AHMEDABAD: A doctoral study from Raksha Shakti University (RSU) exploring the relationship between judgements of   high court and scope of forensic science found that the highest mention of forensic evidences can be found in three categories of crime —  , rape and possession of narcotic substances. These three categories consist 78% of the total mentions of ‘forensic evidence’ in judgements delivered.

 In her doctoral study ‘Fidelity of Forensic Evidence in Criminal Trials in India’ conducted under Prof S L Vaya, former director of Institute of Research and Development, RSU, Ankia Patel analyzed 10,478 judgements of Gujarat high court between 1951 and 2015, retrieved from GLHEL-The Laws. Out of the total, 634 mentioned forensic evidence.
 
 “The rate of mentioning forensic evidence has gone up considerably since 2000. Judgements in cases such as murder and rape have higher rate of citing these evidences. Judgements related to murder have nearly half the mentions. In these cases, mix of biological evidences (71%), physical evidences (62%) and medical evidences (57%) was cited,” said Patel.
 
 The study also analyzed the results for dropping evidences at different levels. At investigating agency level, some of the reasons included failure in sending evidences to FSL in time, faulty sealing of samples, samples forwarded without case detail or panchnama and failure to collect important evidences. According to the analysis, where the forensic evidences were appreciated, only 16.38% cases concluded in acquittals. Justice Malimath Committee on Reforms of Criminal Justice System in 2003 had mentioned, ‘The present level of application of forensic science in crime investigation is somewhat low in the country, with only 5-6% of the registered crime cases being referred to the FSLs and Fingerprint Bureau put together.’
 
 ‘The ratio can be improved at multiple levels with better training of police, training to forensic experts in deposition in the courts and knowledge of law and training to prosecution in scientific techniques,’ mentions the study.
 
 “Gujarat fares better when it comes to inter-agency coordination primarily due to the efforts by Directorate of Forensic Sciences (DFS) and   (GFSU) that conducts a number of bridge courses for various stakeholders including police and judiciary,” said a senior state government official.
 
 
