Gurgaon witnessed some unique cricket matches at  , when para-athletes from different parts of the country came together to participate in The  , organised by   (PSF). The three-day competition saw the clash between four teams – Delhi Sultans, UP Strikers, South Warriors and Chandigarh Lions. 
  On choosing Gurgaon to organise the league, Sarvesh Kumar, President, PSF, said, "Gurgaon is a cosmopolitan city and it is the perfect destination to host this unique tournament. Such matches will give a platform to these para-athletes and we hope Gurugrammers will support them."
 
  
  Here goes a six! A player from UP Stricker at the event
 
 
 The enthusiastic players recognised the competition as an opportunity to showcase their talent. Sonu Gupta, a player from Delhi Warrior, said, "We tried to follow all the international cricket rules and regulations. The only difference was that the size of our field was smaller compared to a standard cricket ground. This will prove that we can compete against anyone."
 "I have been playing cricket for the past nine years, but never got any professional training. I was very excited to take part in this tournament," said Vinod Singh Sandhu, captain, Chandigarh Lions. 
 "I started playing cricket as a hobby but now, I play the game like a professional. I wish to play international cricket and match up to the standards of an international player," said Sonu from the Delhi team.
  
  
  Team Delhi Sultans celebrate their victory 
 
 
 
 Dinesh, from South Warriors, said, "I love playing, but travelling in a wheelchair for tournaments gets tough. I have come all the way from Kanyakumari and due to lack of infrastructure and other facilities, it gets difficult."
 "There is almost no infrastructure for us. We also don’t get any kind of government support. We self-train in schools and parks in our cities. This tournament will give us an opportunity to get recognition and show our skills," said Veer Singh Sandhu from Chandigarh Lions.
 
  
   , President, PSA
 
 
 
 Not just cricket, some of the players showed off other skills at the event as well. Vinod Thakur from UP Strikers, who has taken part in many dance reality shows, said, "Dancing is my profession, but I love playing cricket too. Taking part in tournaments gives me the opportunity to travel and meet people," he said. 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 -- Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
