NEW DELHI: He is Kabir, named after the mystic poet. He belies the meaning of his name which is big and magnificent. He is tiny and weighed only 1.3kg  . And he was not named by his parents. In fact, he was abandoned within hours of his birth,   in   near a prominent school in south Delhi’s  . The odds of the newborn surviving the cold and dogs and vermins were very low.

 But fate had willed otherwise. Around 4pm on January 5, residents of Kishangarh village near Vasant Kunj heard the child bawling. They alerted the police who arrived within minutes. The child was rescued and rushed to Fortis Hospital in Vasant Kunj in a CATS ambulance.
 
 The doctors could assess that the child had been out in the cold for several hours. The minimum temperature that day hovered around five degree celsius. He was in a hypothermic state with a placenta attached and there were insect bites all over his body. “The newborn was barely able to breathe. The emergency response team resuscitated him. Then, the baby was separated from the placenta, cleaned and wrapped in warm clothing. Because the newborn’s blood pressure and oxygen saturation were low, he was shifted to the neonatal intensive care unit,” said Dr Rahul Nagpal, director and head of paediatrics at the hospital. 
 
 Dr Nagpal pointed out that abandoning of a newborn male child is uncommon and it is possible that he was born out of wedlock and the mother decided to abandon the child. “I named him Kabir because we don’t know what religion his parents belong to,” he said. The poet is largely believed to have been born in a family of Muslim weavers but there have been other versions too. He, however, was strongly influenced by his teacher, a Hindu Bhakti leader. 
 
 A healthy baby usually weighs around 3 kg to 3.5 kg. “Kabir had low birth weight but his response to treatment was very good. We kept one nurse dedicated to him round the clock and gave all support required to help him survive. Finally, on the sixth day of admission, Kabir showed first signs of significant improvement. He started to show respiratory effort and began opening his eyes,” recalled Dr Nagpal.
 
 The baby was put on infant formula feed on day six and soon after the nutritionists started feeding him directly through mouth. When he started taking a full feed and gained nearly 500 grams, tests were conducted to rule out any infection. 
 
 “There was no infection and the child was stable. So, we decided to discharge the baby. The SHO of Vasant Kunj police station was given the medical update about him. The police and the hospital worked together to locate the parents but failed. So, the child was handed over to an NGO on Monday,” said an official.
 
 “Like a tiny soldier, Kabir stood on the line separating life and death, fought back and came out a winner,” remembered Dr Anjima Das, neonatologist at the hospital, fondly. Now all he needs is a family.
 
