CHANDIGARH: Around 10 to 12 assailants entered Mauli village of Manimajra with guns and sharp-edged objects in their possession and fired three bullets in the air injuring three people on intervening night of Sunday and Monday. One of the injured men is stated to be in a critical condition. The accused fled from the spot after the incident. 

 As per the information given by the cops, the accused persons had come to attack Kallu, a resident of Rajiv Colony, Panchkula, owing to old enmity. They arrived on wedding ceremony of Kallu's sister, which was being held at the community centre of   in Mauli village. The accused came loaded with guns, sharp-edge weapons and iron rods in their hands.
 
 After not being able to find Kallu, the accused got into a scuffle with three acquaintances of the former, who were sitting in a car near the community centre. The accused persons attacked the three identified as Ravi and Sachin, both residents of Sector 28, and Vikas, a resident of Sector 25. It was added that   was shot in the head as he tried to escape, and is currently stated to be in a serious condition in PGIMER. Meanwhile, Ravi and Sachin being treated at GMSH-16. Several villagers gathered at the spot after hearing the bullet shots. Deputy superintendent of police (East) Satish Kumar, along with a large number of cops, rushed to the spot at night and the cops did carried on their investigation till 3am on Monday.
 
 A case under sections 147 (Punishment for rioting), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25, 27, 59 of the Arms Act was registered at   police station against the unknown accused persons.
 
 During investigation, cops identified seven to eight of the accused. DSP (East) Satish Kumar, said, "The accused persons have multiple cases registered against them in Panchkula. One of the accused has been identified and raiding parties have been sent to nab him."
 
 
