BENGALURU: Bengaluru is leading the way in warehousing as demand picks up after the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax.

 The city led   in the   with a 39% share — or 4 million sqft — in the second half of the last year. This is a 30% increase from the first six months, signalling the growing prominence of the city as an industrial hub.
 
 Bengaluru was followed by Delhi-NCR at 20% and Chennai at 13%, while Mumbai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad and smaller cities made up for the rest. Across the country, leasing activity in the logistics and warehousing segment registered a growth of 50% — to 10 million sqft — in the second half of 2017, compared to the first half, according to data from independent property consultancy CBRE.
 
 E-comm, IT, mfg & FMCG firms top in leasing space
 
 The demand for warehouses in Bengaluru is partly the result of the strong presence of   Flipkart and Amazon.
 
 Leasing activity in Bengaluru was mainly concentrated in the western part (68%) of the city, followed by east (19%) and south (13%). The northern part of the city, touted to be the next big zone for commercial office space, reported negligible transactions due to limited availability of Grade ‘A’ warehousing space.
 
 The majority of those leasing space were e-commerce players, engineering and manufacturing and FMCG companies.
 
 A few notable transactions included Flipkart occupying 0.18 million sqft in west Bengaluru, D-Mart taking 0.2 million sqft, and Schneider Electric about 40,000 sqft. Companies such as Embassy and Assetz have moved strongly into the warehousing space, identifying it as the next big opportunity.
 
 “Two factors are expected to drive demand across the country: Consolidation and expansion by existing players, and the entry of new players. As India’s warehousing sector moves towards a more systematic mode of operation, coupled with the implementation of GST, we expect to see foreign participation in the Indian logistics market as well as increased inflow of institutional funding and more formal sources of capital,” Jasmine Singh, executive director (advisory and transaction services), CBRE India, said.
 
 
