NEW DELHI:   the possibility of bringing an   to  , Union minister for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday said that the   filed by   ( ) in   has all the  . He said the municipal corporations will also submit affidavits in the apex court soon.

 “We took the legal way of amending Master Plan for Delhi 2021. DDA is the statutory authority and representatives of all political parties are its members. Everyone put in their thoughts for a solution to sealing. The Centre’s law officer said that the affidavit contains all requisite measures,” Puri said.
 
 The minister added, “The municipal corporations will also submit an affidavit in the next few days. If there are any deficiencies, such as the pending notification of 351 roads for mixed land use, it will be done soon.” He said that by Tuesday, Delhi government will finalise the work on notifying the 351 roads.
 
 Puri said that an ordinance can be challenged and it can only be brought out when Parliament is in session. “We have statutory authority, which we have used,” he added. He was talking to reporters after flagging off the first stretch of Delhi Metro’s Pink Line along with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday.
 
 DDA had submitted an affidavit in SC on Monday containing the amendments to the master plan and the measures taken by it to mitigate environmental and other concerns arising as a result of it.
 
 The land-owning agency, in February, amended the master plan and gave a uniform floor area ratio of 350 to shop-cum-residential plots and complexes, allowed commercial use of basements and rationalised conversion charges. Steps were also taken to address the concerns of residents, such as removing pubs and clubs from residential areas.
 
 Meanwhile, the building departments of the three corporations sealed 61 properties on Wednesday for violations, like misuse of stilt parking, non-payment of conversion charges and illegal construction. South corporation sealed 14 properties, north 23 and east acted against 24 units. The sealing drive was carried out in areas like Azad Market, Naraina Vihar and Paschim Vihar under north corporation, Punjabi Bagh, Vikaspuri and Hari Nagar under south, and Nirman Vihar and Nand Nagri under east corporation.
 
 
