A vidwat in  , a degree in commerce and an IPS aspirant, who had even attended a year’s coaching in a bid to achieve her dream. How did such an individual find her way into television and also become a popular antagonist at that? 
  Hegde, the ‘baddie’ in  , had never in her wildest dreams thought she’d be on Kannada television one day, that too, in a daily soap that is one amongst the most highly rated. “My father was into theatre earlier, so I had a fair idea of what acting entailed. I, too, had done my share of theatre in school, followed by a course in Yakshagana and classical dance. So emoting was not new to me. At the same time, I had never, ever, given acting a thought. I was busy preparing to write my IPS exams,” she tells us. 
 As fate would have it, the editor of Radha Ramana chanced upon her pictures on social media and approached her for a serial. “That serial didn’t take off, but it so happened that  , the director of Radha Ramana, saw my pictures which our editor had and called me for a look test. I had no clue what to do during the audition, but after that I was told ‘you’re selected’. Clearly, I must have done something right,” laughs Anusha. 
 The first day on the set was a harrowing experience, she recalls. “I’m someone who can tear up easily. And being a rookie, I wouldn’t remember my dialogues, thereby leaving my director quite irritated. And when he would reprimand me for the same, I would start crying; there have been many such days on the set,” concedes Anusha. It took her a few months to start enjoying her role. “When I was told I would be playing a negative shade, I did have my share of concerns. But when I finally got under the skin of my character, I began enjoying it,” avers the actor. 
 This was in December 2016 and Anusha was playing Deepika, the antagonist in her debut soap Radha Ramana. Almost one and a half years into the project, Anusha has managed to carve a niche for herself with her turnout. “I’ve had people walk up to me and shout at me for being so evil. One old man in particular once asked me neenu yavaga olledu madakke shuru madtyamma?’ (When will you start doing good?) Women, too have admonished me for being so scheming,” she adds. 
 Anusha’, though, is not offended by these observations. “On the contrary, I feel thrilled. It means I’ve been good at my job. Earlier, when people called me names, it would rattle me; today I couldn’t be happier,” states Anusha. 
 Of course, as Deepika the villain, she’s managed to fetch notice from all quarters. “I have been getting movie offers too. My parents too are elated and egg me on to try new avenues. But as of now, my character in Radha Ramana is keeping me busy. Let’s see what the future holds,” she signs off. 
 
