DHAKA: With monsoon knocking on the door, the Bangladesh government is making arrangements to shift   refugees to the new islands. Approximately 1 lakh refugees will move in the first phase. Currently, there are nearly 11 lakh Rohingyas in camps at Cox’s Bazar. 

 
 
 Bangladesh foreign minister   disclosed this at a media briefing in Dhaka on Saturday.
 
 If the Rohingya issue has hit headlines, so has the killing of Bangladeshi bloggers. Some media outlets have expressed displeasure at the time taken to punish the killers. Responding to this, Ali said: “That’s not true. Things are being done and we need time. It also took us time to punish those who had killed  .”
 
 Ali took questions on India’s role in the Rohingya issue. Dhaka had some “initial misgivings” on the matter. “But India’s foreign minister,  , has said that the country is with Bangladesh on this issue. India has agreed to help in providing support. The Rohingya issue is a humanitarian problem and the world has appreciated Sheikh Hasina government’s efforts in giving shelter to the refugees,” he said.
 
 On Friday, Bangladesh had signed a memorandum of understanding with the UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, on voluntary return of Rohingya refugees once conditions in Myanmar are conducive. The MoU established a framework of cooperation between UNHCR and Bangladesh on the safe, voluntary and dignified returns of refugees in line with international standards.
 
 What if some refugees wanted to stay on? To this, Ali pointed out that Bangladesh was densely populated and would not be able to go on providing shelter. Besides, the nation had accommodated Rohingyas when they had sought refuge. “The refugees are part of Myanmar’s problems. We are only trying to help them. Nobody wants these people to suffer,” he said. 
 
 Besides monetary support, Bangladesh has provided two ambulances to Myanmar. Incidentally, a 15-member team of the   will visit Bangladesh and Myanmar soon. The foreign minister is expecting some positive results after this visit. Though, he did acknowledge that repatriation had its own challenges. 
 
 When he met Myanmar state counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, he discussed how villages of Rohingyas had been razed to the ground. “Most have been renamed. I asked how villages named by the refugees would be identified if they have been destroyed completely,” he said.
 
 Yet, he hopes things will get streamlined soon. He has the same optimism on the Teesta issue. “We have resolved even maritime issues. So, I am hopeful,” he said.
 
 
