HYDERABAD: The decision of the   (AICTE) to bring the   course under its purview has not gone down well with pharmacy college managements who claim that the course is a hospital-based therapeutic subject and is purely clinical.

 The managements also said that it is not possible to follow 1:5 teacher-student ratio as has been prescribed by the council as it would create tremendous pressure on the college and push them into a state of financial hardship. According to the new norm, colleges have to hire more than 30 additional teaching staff to fulfil the criteria.
  
  
 “We are surprised to see Pharma D included in the list of technical education courses as it is a clinical and hospital-oriented subject, which is approved by gazette notification under the ministry of health in 2008. The colleges have to appoint 36 additional teachers for the Pharma D course if we have to follow the council rules. This is highly unscientific,” said K Ramadas, president, T Pharmacy Colleges’ Management Association.
 
 The college managements also requested the   to intervene in the matter and take immediate action to initiate a dialogue with AICTE. They urged that the authorities implement common regulations.
 
 “AICTE in its approval process handbook has overshadowed PCI regulations for B Pharmacy, M Pharmacy, Pharma D and PB courses and has given its own requirements in the process. As a result, the pharmacy colleges are facing severe hardships from affiliating universities and concerned government orders as they are insisting that we comply with both AICTE and PCI norms, which are contradictory. These anomalies have become highly impracticable to implement,” said T V Narayana, member of association.
 
 They said that last year, colleges were asked to follow a faculty student ratio of 1:10 and this year it has been changed to 1:5.
 
 “As per the new guidelines, pharmacy colleges have to maintain a faculty student ratio in 1:5 ratio, which is highly abnormal. There is acute shortage of post graduate and PhD holders in pharmacy education as most of them opt to work in the pharma industry. Also, meeting the required ratio will create tremendous pressure on colleges. So, we request the council to consider a 1:20 staff student ratio, as is the case with engineering, and also include other subject faculty like Maths, English, Computer Science in the said ratio,” said Bhaskar Reddy N, general secretary of the association.
 
