Nagpur: Expressing deep anguish over the abject failure to properly probe the multi-crore irrigation scam, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday slammed the state government for making hardly any progress in all these years, and even remarked that “it needs to wake up from the slumber”.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Gavai and Murlidhar Giratkar also warned of constituting a Special Investigation Team (SIT) if the government was facing constraints of manpower and logistics to probe the scam. Passing several strictures on the snail’s pace of progress, the bench tersely observed that prima facie the government is not serious about investigating the scam though huge amount of public money is involved.
 
 The bench pointed out that little progress has been made into the scam even three years and three months later, after then advocate General Sunil Manohar made a statement in December 2014. He had said that the ACB was conducting an open enquiry of former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, his close aide and ex-water resources minister Sunil Tatkare, and ex-PWD minister Chhagan Bhujbal in the scam.
 
 “If the AG’s statement was made on the instructions of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, it’s a complete breach of those conditions,” the judges stated. They sternly directed chief secretary Sumit Mullick to come up with a positive reply explaining all aspects in detail on an affidavit within three weeks.
 
 The stringent directives came while hearing a PIL by Atul Jagtap through counsel Shridhar Purohit alleging that in four irrigation projects the contracts were awarded to Bajoriya Construction Company, headed by ex-MLC from Yavatmal, at the behest of Ajit Pawar, who headed the irrigation department during the Congress-NCP regime.
 
 After coming under the fire in the last hearing, Mullick filed a fresh affidavit through senior counsel Anand Jaiswal, who was specially appointed to plead on the government’s behalf, giving details about the investigations against Pawar. He made a startling revelation that the NCP stalwart had granted mobilization advance to all the bidding companies, including Bajoriya’s, and the notesheet for work orders had his signature.
 
 “Pawar was also questioned on his role in the Jigaon project by the investigation officer. On March 1, the investigating agency wrote to principal secretary of irrigation department to offer legal opinion regarding his role into government’s ‘Rules of Business’ and its implications on the project. Necessary legal action would be taken after legal opinion and clarification on Pawar is obtained,” the secretary said.
 
 Earlier, senior counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari contended that the vigilance committee had granted clean chit to his client Bajoriya Company, yet the government was impleading everyone into the scam, except Pawar.
 
 
