Panaji: After deciding to interview candidates on a first come first serve basis, in the ratio of five candidate for every contractual post offered, and after hundreds of candidates returned dejected on Monday, the   has now taken a decision to extend the registration for walk in interviews to all the eligible candidates. On offer are 47 lower divisional clerk ( ) posts and 25 data entry operator (DEO) posts.

 Instead of interviewing the first 235 candidates for 47 LDC posts and the first 125 for 25 DEO posts, as was advertised, the North Goa Collectorate will now issue token numbers to all eligible candidates who show up with proper documents on February 5 and 6 at   complex and interview each and every eligible candidate. The interview dates will be announced later.
 
 While the registration for eligible candidates for DEO posts will continue on Wednesday morning at 8am as scheduled, those candidates who don’t get the opportunity to register can do so on February 5 and 6, North Goa Collector   told TOI. 
 
 The decision was taken after seeing the overwhelming response to the advertisement, Mohanan said.
 
 Candidates queued up in large numbers on Monday and when they were told that the first 235 candidates for the LDC posts were already issued tokens, the hundreds of disappointed candidates gathered at the entrance and created a scene, saying they had been waiting in the queue for hours. They disbursed only after repeated appeals by Mohanan. 
 
 Candidates began queuing up late Sunday night and in the wee hours of Monday morning despite 64 jobs on offer being purely on contractual basis for a period of ten months. Only eight posts advertised are to be filled against leave vacancies for a period between two months for ten months. 
 
 Despite standing in the queue, a number of candidates showed up without the proper certificates. Once the registration for LDC posts were full, many wanted to switch over into the queue for DEO since the monthly remuneration offered is the same — Rs 16,756 — but couldn’t do so as they didn’t have the additional typing qualification certificate required.
 
 Candidates who have already registered their names for the interviews and who have already been interviewed need not register again.
 
 
