NEW DELHI: With the threat of Glanders disease looming large over the city, “baraats” and “ghudchadis” could become less glamorous affairs. Delhi government’s move to notify the entire capital as a “controlled area” has put a question mark on traditional   being used for   ceremonies. While there is still no ban on their use for “ghudchadis”, bandwallahs and mare suppliers have been flooded with queries from prospective customers, who are worried about the disease impacting their “once-in-a-life-time function”. 

 Vijender Chawla from Chawla Bands in Tagore Garden said their horses were tested for Glanders and all samples came clean. “We have received over 50 calls from customers. Till now, there is no notification on banning the horses on road. Since it’s a matter of tradition, people are obviously worried,” he said.
 
 The wedding season — the second biggest of any year after November-December — will start from   (January 22) and continue till March 12. “The government should work towards removing the doubt from people’s mind. Till all samples are not in, a ban should not be imposed,” Chawla said. 
 
 Subhash Kumar from  , which specilises in organising marriages and other events, said they were aware of the disease and the government had contacted them to take precautions. “Currently, breeds closer to khacchar (mules) have been affected, but we are going by the government’s recommendations. This is the time of the year when we get our maximum income and, so, we hope that the cloud of uncertainty will be lifted soon,” Kumar said.
 
 Many mare suppliers that TOI spoke to said people were holding back from making advanced bookings. 
 
 Mares/ghodis are an important part of any north Indian wedding. The groom arrives at the bride’s house riding a mare, and the ritual itself is called “ghudchadi”. The barat procession, too, is considered incomplete without the groom leading it on a lavishly decorated mare. There is a sense of despair at Jagdish Prakash & Sons, another company that arranges mares for weddings. “No one from the government has contacted us. With the wedding season just a week away, our livelihood could get hit,” said Prakash, the owner. 
 
 In December, the government had restricted the movement of equines in and out of west Delhi after eight horses at   in Raja Garden tested positive for the infectious disease. 
 
 
