CHANDIGARH: If the UT vigilance records are to be believed, it has failed to find anyone corrupt in any department of the city in 2017. Reason: the vigilance department has registered just a single FIR (first information report) and made no arrests in the year, revealed a reply to a query filed under Right To Information (RTI) Act.

 The RTI information pointed out the number of arrests and registration of FIRs have been going down since January 2012. However, vigilance department disposed of inquiries against bureaucrats and cops.
 
 The RTI information revealed that in the last six years vigilance sleuths have arrested 80 people in 50 cases. In 2012, the vigilance department registered eight FIRs and arrested 30 persons. The figure dipped to 11 arrests in eight FIRs the next year. In 2014, the vigilance registered four FIRs and arrested 11 persons, while 13 FIRs were registered and 15 persons arrested in 2015. In 2016, 16 FIRs were registered and 13 people arrested.
 
 On the other hand, the CBI arrested three cops of the UT police allegedly accepting bribes in 2017. One of them was a sub-inspector. He was caught taking Rs 2 lakh bribe. The other two were head constables — one of them was caught with Rs 5,000 on the first day of the year from Sector 31 police station and another was arrested while taking a bribe of Rs 10,000 from a woman under Sarangpur police station.
 
 On the other hand, the CBI arrested a UT SDM and other bureaucrats of   and   while taking bribe last year.
 
 Sources said not taking action on complaints in a timely manner was the main reason behind the vigilance department losing the trust of people. UT home department should issue detailed guidelines in cases of police personnel and inquiry officer must not be from the same department to avoid direct conflict, sources said.
 
 Ajay Jagga, a senior advocate and an RTI activist, said the vigilance department needed an online system, where action taken by the vigilance is made available. “Pro-active working of the vigilance department is the need of the hour,” he said.
 
 
