Madurai: It was a different cultural exposure to a group of 350 tourists from various countries who took part in the Pongal festivities held at the Mettuneerethan village near Vadipatti in Madurai district on Monday. Israeli couple Liz and Ilan was one of them who were absorbed into Tamil culture as the former started dancing to the tune of the Tappu played by Ilan.  The tourists, who arrived in four buses were received at the village entrance with a traditional welcome of arathi. Followed by that they were taken in a procession across the village with folk music. At the centre of the village, the villagers demonstrated to the visitors how to prepare Pongal for the festival. They were taken by surprise by the ‘Pongal Kulavai’ (sound made by women when the sweet pongal pot overflows), and some of them were curious to learn how to make it. The villagers also explained to tourists about Pongal and its significance. The Tamil Nadu tourism department corporation (TTDC) which organises the event every year, arranged seven types of folk dance performances by local troupes and foreign tourists gingerly participated shaking a leg for local music. The music makes them dance, they said. Kristen Robinson from United States said she likes these kind of festivals. “It is an amazing experience to be a part of the festival in a village. I will be visiting again,” she said. Kristen had come earlier to Madurai to attend a wedding and she had come with her parents for this Pongal festival, she said. District tourism officer, S M Sribalamurugan said that it was great experience for the visiting tourists. “There were four groups of tourists from United States, Canada, Japan and Germany and another 115 individuals from various countries who had registered with tourism department office through email. Altogether 350 foreign tourists were taken to the village visit for Pongal this year. Along with folk dances, we included Bharatanatyam performance also,” he said. After almost three hours, the tourists were taken back to the city. Earlier, they were served Pongal and snacks along with tender coconut in the village.