CHENNAI:   will start his coaching innings with a stint with Karaikudi Kaalai in the forthcoming  . The right-hander will be assisted by former Tamil Nadu player PC Prakash.   — one of the giants of domestic cricket — was pleased to be gearing up for a new innings. 

 
 “I am excited to be part of this challenge. I have been associated with Karaikudi Kaalai right from the first season where I captained the side. Last year, I didn’t feature as a player, but was always available to provide my inputs for the team. The team did have a good season where they finished in top-four. I am very confident that we can build up on that performance in the upcoming season,” Badri told TOI on Wednesday. 
 
 The former TN star already seems to have done his homework and has a fair idea of the players whom he would want to target during the players draft. “I have a few combinations in my mind for the team and it will be great if we get those players who will fit in those slots,” Badri added. Ashok Anand, COO of the group and the team manager, felt they went with Badrinath considering the rich experience he possessed. “He is an experienced campaigner who has the respect of all players and we feel he is the right person to take the team forward,” Ashok said. The franchise retained three uncapped players ahead of the draft — M Shajahan, R Rajkumar and S Mohan Prasath. 
 
 Kaalai to have new owners: The Karaikudi franchise will have new owners for the forthcoming season. The franchise, earlier owned by Chettinad Group, will now be part of the iDREAM Group. “Chettinad Apparels have now reached an agreement with R Murthy, chairman, iDream Group and henceforth the team named as iDream Karaikudi Kaalai will be owned and managed by him,” said a TNCA press release.
 
 Players draft today: The likes of Dinesh Karthik, Murali Vijay, Washington Sundar, Vijay Shankar and   are some of the prominent names who will be part of the TNPL players draft scheduled to be held at a city hotel here on Thursday. R Ashwin was the only high-profile player to have been retained by his franchise — Dindigul Dragons. One of the owners said the move to not retain star players was a well-thought one. “It will provide a first-mover advantage in the draft for franchises which haven’t retained a capped player,” said the owner. The order of the picks will be from Tuti Patriots — the highest bidder —to Karaikudi Kaalai which is the lowest. Rules of the draft state that franchises that haven’t retained any capped players can choose any player in the first two rounds. On the other hand, teams that possess capped players in their retention list can only pick an uncapped player from the list. “This rule will be applicable only for the first couple of rounds. After that, franchises can go for any player they wish to,” said an official. Each franchise can have a maximum of 19 players in their squad. 
 
