NAGPUR: Even as the   ( ) leads in the country after Madhya Pradesh in constituting   committees (BMCs), these committees are yet to be operational. To channelize these BMCs, a 10-year state   plan is ready and will be approved in June first week.

 
 On Tuesday, International Day for Biological Diversity 2018 will be celebrated to mark the 25th anniversary of Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) at the national and global levels. 
  
 As per the National Biodiversity Authority’s (NBA) official figures, till July 2017, MP had 23,406 BMCs while Maharashtra has 20,505 BMCs. These include 20,409 at the gram panchayat level, 41 in panchayat samitis, 43 in municipal councils & corporations and 12 in zilla parishads. The MSBB has a target to constitute 28,279 BMCs.
 
 However, despite the Biological Diversity Act (2002) giving comprehensive mandate to conserve, manage, and share benefits of resources in a fair and equitable manner with villagers, respective institutions are doing little to implement the Act. Staff crunch at MSBB is said to be one of the reasons for slow progress. Only 20 personnel are working with MSBB, most of them on contract basis and outsourced.
 
 A Ashraf, PCCF and member-secretary of MSBB, said that BMCs are operational arms of BDA. “To create awareness among the villagers about the rules, we have chalked out a major programme by organizing 210 ground-level training workshops in 13 districts this year. We have roped in NGOs Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) and Prabhodini for the job,” said Ashraf.
 
 Even as 20,505 BMCs have been set up in the state, only two gram panchayats — Sili and Surewada in Bhandara district — have prepared Peoples Biodiversity Registers (PBRs). PBRs are key documents of biological diversity including preservation of habitats, conservation of land races, folk varieties and cultivars, domesticated stocks and breeds of animals and microorganisms and chronicling of knowledge relating to biological diversity.
 
 “When it will come to sharing monetary benefit by selling resources, the PBR inputs will be of big help. The BMCs will decide about it on basis of PBRs only,” said Ashraf.
 
 MSBB chairman Vilas Bardekar said Maharashtra is far ahead when compared to other states on implementation of the Act. “We have the highest number of BMCs. Over 70 PBRs are in final stages. In June first week, the biodiversity board will meet to finalize 10-year action plan from 2018-28,” said Bardekar.
 
 “Our PBRs are taking time as these are being prepared with the involvement of villagers. In some states, PBRs ran into problem as locals were not involved. In Solapur, NGO Unnati is planning to submit 100 PBRs prepared by BMCs,” he said.
 
 The chairman said three sites — Ganeshkhind garden in Pune which has Alphonso mango trees of Peshwa era, Landhorkhori in Jalgaon and Fossils Park in Sironcha — will be notified as biodiversity heritage sites. Board approval is pending for notification with the government.
 
 When asked about conflict of interests between National Biodiversity Act (NBA) and Forest Rights Act (FRA), Joint Forest Management Committees (JMFCs) and Eco-development Committees (EDCs), Ashraf said, “We expect the Biodiversity Act to be the umbrella Act as it is not specific to wildlife or just extraction of limited forest produce, but conservation of entire biodiversity.”
 
 
