HYDERABAD: The batting might of the Royal Challengers Bangalore came a cropper against the lethal bowling of the   as the hosts yet again defended a low score with aplomb and in the process carved out a five-run win at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium, here on Monday night. The win virtually secured a playoff berth for SRH.

 
 
 
 
 After being bowled out for a modest 146, the hosts looked in a wee bit of trouble as RCB skipper Virat Kohli threatened to run away with the game. The skipper hammered two fours and a six off left-arm spinner Shakib Al Hasan to take his side to 47 for one in the fifth over. However, the Bangladesh bowler had the last laugh as he had Kohli (39; 30b, 5x4, 1x6) caught by Yusuf Pathan at short third man.
 
 
 
 That virtually set the cat among the pigeons as the RCB lost the plot completely. The batsmen looked clueless against legspinner  . AB de Villiers (5) was castled by Rashid and Moeen Ali (10) was caught behind by Wriddhiman Saha off Siddharth Kaul and the visitors were staring down the barrel.
 
 Mandeep Singh (21 not out) and Colin de Grandhomme (33) kept RCB in the hunt with a 57-run sixth wicket stand but SRH bowlers managed to prevent the big hits. RCB ended up with 141 for six.
 
 Earlier, Skipper Kane Williamson (56; 39b; 4x4, 2x6) yet again carried the innings on his shoulder with his fifth half-century of the season. While most of the other batsmen struggled, Williamson was at his masterly best as he caressed the ball to all parts of the ground.
 
 Kohli called it correct and had no hesitation in asking the hosts to bat first. The Sunrisers batsmen haven’t set the stands on fire this season and that must have weighed heavily on the RCB skipper’s mind. It turned out to be a good move as Tim Southee cleaned up Alex Hales (5) to put the hosts on the back foot in the third over.
 
 However, Williamson was in no mood to concede ground as he began aggressively but Shikhar Dhawan (13) continued to struggle and that prevented the hosts from piling on the runs. Siraj put an end to Dhawan’s innings by having him caught by Southee at the fine leg fence.
 
 Legspinner Yuzvendra Chahal and offspinner Moeen Ali took the pace of the Sunrisers’ innings as the batsmen were unable to get the ball into the gaps. The boundaries dried up and the pressure built upon the batsmen. Manish Pandey (5) perished without much ado as the Sunrisers limped to 61 for three.
 
 Shakib and Williamson tried to undo the damage with a workmanlike 64-run stand for the fourth wicket. Al Hasan (35; 32b, 5x4) hit Ali out of the attack with two boundaries in the 10th over and Williamson took it from there on. The first six of the innings came in the 14th over with Williamson hitting a listless  , who, however, had his revenge when he had the SRH skipper caught by Mandeep Singh in the 16th over.
 
