Managing a national football team has always been tricky business and perhaps always will be. Yet, a major championship, especially the World Cup, offers a national team coach an opportunity to leave a mark on the global stage. TOI takes a look at five managers who will come under greater scrutiny than others in Russia

 
 
 
 
 When he was announced as Vicente Del Bosque’s successor after Spain’s disappointing second round exit to Italy at Euro 2016, not everyone was convinced Lopetegui was the rescue act that Spain were in dire need of. And yet, in less than 24 months, the 51-year-old has revitalised La Roja, who once again look like title contenders
 
 
 
 
 The former France captain could only get as far as the quarterfinals in his first World Cup as manager of Les Bleus four years ago. This time though, equipped with a younger and more talented squad at his disposal, Deschamps stands a greater chance of becoming only the second man to captain and coach his national team to World Cup glory after Franz Beckenbauer
 
 
 
 
 Brazil picked Dunga after the humiliation of the 2014 World Cup. Soon after, they turned to Tite in the wake of another humbling blow at the 2016 Copa America Centenario. Tite has sparked a remarkable transformation. The manner in which the former Corinthians boss has blended solidity with style has seen the Selecao emerge as serious contenders for a sixth crown
 
 
 
 
 Having been handed the reins of La Albiceleste in June during a delicate moment in their qualifying campaign, Sampaoli had talisman Lionel Messi to thank as Argentina sneaked into the 2018 finals. But the 58-year-old will be only too aware that Messi’s genius alone won’t be enough for his nation to end their long wait for another title
 
 
 
 
 The 44-year-old Spaniard took charge in August 2016 and passed his first test with flying colours, guiding the Red Devils to an unbeaten World Cup qualifying campaign. However, the bigger challenge lies now where Martinez will be aiming to take Belgium past the quarterfinal hurdle.
 
 
