Mangaluru: Mangaluru City North constituency MLA BA Mohiuddin Bava and KPCC women’s wing general secretary Prathibha Kulai filed separate police complaints against miscreants who shared obnoxious messages on social media which tarnish their image.

 One message, being shared on   and other social media, uses crass language to link Bava and Prathibha in bad light. Such messages started flooding social media after Prathibha, also a corporator and chairperson of the standing committee on tax appellate and finance of the Mangaluru City Corporation ( ), spoke against the Sangh Parivar recently. She had cautioned youths against joining Sangh Parivar at a protest meet organized by the Congress in Karkala. She had said, “Youths who want to get murdered may join the Sangh Praivar. Those who do not wish to work but make merry join the saffron brigade…”
 
 Bava told reporters on Monday that he requested city police commissioner T R Suresh to take stringent action against miscreants who created and forwarded messages about him and the corporator. “Prathibha spoke the truth in Karkala but they could not digest it. She is my sister, but those who could not digest her speech have been circulating messages about us. I’ll quit public life and become a sanyasi if they prove it (unethical relationship between them),” Bava told reporters at his office in MCC.
 
 At a press conference organized by the Dakshina Kannada District Mahila Congress, Prathibha said she has prepared an 80-page document on social media messages shared by miscreants. 
 
 “I’ve been getting life threatening calls and efforts are being made to create a rift between me, my husband and family members. However, my family is very supportive. Hence, I still stick to the statements made in Karkala. Those messages show their mentality and culture. Those who speak about respecting women and Indian culture are doing this,” Prathibha said. 
 
 Mahila Congress president Shalet Pinto said the incident will be taken up seriously. “BJP leaders, including Shobha Karandlaje, will go to any extent while criticizing political opponents. We will give Prathibha moral support,” she added. 
 
 
