LUDHIANA : Ashamed over the incident of rape and abortion of a Class XI student and arrest of three of his colleagues, a teacher of Government Senior Secondary School, here, committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at his house in   district on Thursday.

 The deceased was a contractual vocational teacher in the school and an ex-serviceman. The   police have filed a case under Section 174 of the CrPC on the statement of his wife. Mehal Kalan SHO inspector   said the 48-year-old teacher’s wife has given a statement to the police that due to the controversy surrounding the school, her husband was feeling ashamed and was depressed for the past few days.
 
 
  
 
 The SHO said on Thursday, the family had gone to attend a marriage function, from where the teacher returned home alone and consumed the poisonous substance.His neighbours rushed him to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead while undergoing treatment.Earlier, the Ludhiana rural cops had arrested three teachers of the school in the rape case.
 
 The case is being investigated by the police as well as the district education department. All the probe teams keep visiting the school to take statements of teachers. The deceased teacher had also given his statement to an inquiry team of the education department that had visited the school for identification of voices of accused teachers in a video. In the video, the accused were conspiring to get the student’s foetus aborted.
 
 Meanwhile, all the seven accused were sent to judicial custody on Friday. SHO Rajesh Sharma said the police have asked a doctor of Jagraon civil hospital to scan the records of the private diagnostic centre where the schoolgirl was taken for an ultrasound. The matter had come to the fore after a whistleblower teacher has sent a complaint to DGP   and education secretary   along with other officials of the state government.
 
 
 Besides the compliant the teacher had forwarded an audio clip of 3 minutes and 50 seconds in which two men (allegedly the school teachers) were discussing the way of getting the student's abortion done.
 
