CHANDIGARH: More than 6,000 tonnes of wheat, sufficient to feed more than 14 lakh people for a month, was allowed to rot in  's Dharamkot sub-division for two years. Stored on open plinths without sufficient protection, the grain will now be used mainly to produce manure. 

 In a written reply to a question asked in the Punjab assembly recently, chief minister Captain   said 1.23 lakh wheat bags of 50 kg each (equal to 6,178 tonnes) from the crop of 2014-15, was stored on open plinths. It was eventually declared unfit for consumption by Food Corporation of India ( ). It was only this month that the state government charge sheeted two custodians for the negligence.
 
 The wheat was originally valued at Rs 15.5 crore. But when the damaged stock was auctioned recently, it fetched the Punjab State Co-op Supply & Marketing Federation Ltd (Markfed) just Rs 4 crore. To recover the remaining losses, two salesmen, Ram Swarup and  , were charge-sheeted on March 5.
 
 "The wheat stocks which are stored on open plinths are covered with polythene covers. The concerned officials or custodians were provided with sufficient quantity of polythene cover for safe upkeep of wheat. Markfed's district manager in Moga has directed the concerned custodians to safeguard wheat from rain, but non-compliance of the instructions by the custodians concerned led to the loss," adds Amarinder's reply.
 
 ‘ 2014-2015 wheat stock of all agencies damaged ’
 
 AAP’s  , who had sought details of the case during the assembly session, told TOI that he suspected pilferage from the wheat even as the entire stock was being shown as destroyed.
 
 
 “There is a need to probe deeper into the matter,” he said.
 
 
 Punjab government officials told TOI that a large quantity of wheat stock from 2014-2015 of almost all state procurement agencies had been damaged across the state because the Food Corporation of India (FCI) had shown less interest in procuring wheat. Punjab State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited (PUNSUP) and Punjab Agro Foodgrains Corporation Limited (PAFCL) procure wheat for the central pool on behalf of FCI.
 
 
 “It is the responsibility of the companies to arrange for the safe storage of wheat that is procured and to maintain the health of the wheat stock till its delivery to FCI,” said the report tabled in the assembly last week.
 
 
 
