Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) launched the waste segregation drive with much fanfare on World Environment Day on June 5 last year. But six months on, the project is yet to gain momentum. Residents, as well as   collectors, continue to dump dry and wet waste together, rendering the waste segregation drive redundant.

 Till December 2017, NMC's health department (sanitation) has achieved only 25% segregation of dry and wet waste. Against 1,200 MT solid waste, the civic body is only segregating 290 MT.
 
 NMC had started the process of distributing free dustbins to residents in two colours — green (wet waste) and blue (dry waste). Since the launch of the scheme, as many as 10,000 dust bins were distributed across the city. 
 
 While NMC is laying focus on Swachh Bharat campaign, the garbage is being disposed of by residents in just one bin. Even the garbage collector does not stress on segregation of waste.
 
 Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal admitted that NMC was going slow on waste segregation. Yet, he claimed that NMC was moving in the right direction and currently focusing on bulk generators. “Already, the private firm engaged in collecting and transporting garbage to dumping yard has converted its vehicles by providing two separate chambers for dry and wet waste,” he said. “We are placing two separate bins in commercial areas too,” Mudgal pointed out.
 
 A group of sanitary workers told TOI that they really don’t know how the segregation will be implemented in totality. Unless NMC starts imposing fine on citizens, the scheme of segregation of dry and wet garbage won’t be a success in the city, they said. 
 
 Civic activists said NMC should involve big housing societies to cover maximum residents and large-scale awareness campaign was needed to change the habit.
 
 “We have been talking about segregation of waste since long, but the movement is not getting desired public participation,” admitted founder of a city-based NGO Kaustav Chatterjee. Many times, segregated waste gets mixed up at pickup points as there is only single bin at pickup points. Sensitizing 30 lakh population for something they have never done before is not an easy task, he said.
 
 However, there are many cases, where in spite of repeated requests, citizens are not segregating waste, whereas, the rule says the responsibility of segregation of waste is with the generator.
 
 Chatterjee said, “It’s high time NMC penalizes defaulters.” The implementation may start with market places, street vendors, shops and later switch over to residential complexes.”
 
 “As a part of solid waste treatment, we all are talking of making compost but we need to realize, around 60-65% of solid waste is not biodegradable. We need to think beyond compost. Solid Waste Treatment Plant generating electricity could be a viable option from renewable source of energy point of view,” Chatterjee said.
 
 
