CHENNAI: In a double whammy for the state transport department, the inexperienced, temporary drivers roped in to operate buses abandoned by striking employees caused five minor accidents on Saturday, while the revenue losses across the state soared to 65%.

 Though no grievous injuries were caused in accidents in Chennai, Coimbatore, Thanjavur and Udumalpet, serious damage was caused to buses and other depot properties.
 
 Government records show that eight state transport corporations, which on an average garner revenue of Rs 20 crore-Rs 22 crore, on Saturday managed just Rs 7 crore in total.   divisions in Madurai, Kumbakonam, Coimbatore and   got revenue of less than Rs 1.1 crore.
 
 
  
 
 Chennai Metropolitan Transport Corporation ( ) managed to collect just Rs 80 lakh against its average daily revenue collection of around Rs 2.3 crore.
 
 “The state government in its official release said 66% of the government buses were operated. However, the daily revenue chart suggests two things — the authorities were trying to cover up by presenting baseless figures and people preferred other modes of transport knowing about the strike,” said highly-placed sources in the government.Besides, thousands of passengers continued to be affected. Even as private buses pitched in, public transport remained crippled in most parts of the state, including Chennai.Officials in the state transport department promised to take strict take action against complaints on excess fare demanded by private bus operators, particularly in southern districts.Besides forcing temporary staff to compensate for high rate of absentees, the transport department has issued notices to employees who participated in the strike. 
 
 Armed with a Madras high court order to end the stir and resume work, the state transport undertakings began issuing notices to the agitating workers since Friday night. 
 
 The seven-day notice seeks explanation from the workers for not reporting to work, causing inconvenience to the commuters, and bringing disrepute to the corporations. “At least 100 staff in Chennai and Kumbakonam will face serious charges of suspension for intimidating and assaulting fellow colleagues and disembarking passengers in the middle of the road,” said a senior official, seeking anonymity.
 
 The transport workers unions, on the other hand, announced that they would continue with the strike until their demands, including increasing the basic pay of the workers, most of them employed on a contract basis, was on a par with permanent state government employees (as per 2.57 multiplication factor) and clearing pending dues worth Rs 7,500 crore, were met. 
 
 
