HUBBALLI:   national president   being met by the heads of four branches of Kanaka Guru Peetha at Kaginele in Haveri district and AICC chief   meeting the mutt’s senior pontiff Niranjanananda Puri Swami at the same time in Harihar on Tuesday has kicked off a debate. 

 Justifying his meeting with Rahul, Niranjanananda Puri Swami said he got a call from chief minister   on March 27 and 28 to inform him about the interaction. This was followed by the BJP seeking an appointment at the same time on April 1. 
 
 Kaginele in Haveri district in North Karnataka is the birthplace of saint, philosopher, composer and social reformer Kanakadasa. It’s the spiritual centre for the Kuruba community to which Siddaramaiah belongs.
 
 Shah, before attending the state-level OBC meet at Kaginele on Tuesday, visited the mutt and met four seers. At the same time, Rahul met the the senior pontiff at Belludi in Harihar taluk of Davanagere district. This gave rise to speculation that it was deliberate because the pontiff was upset with the BJP leadership for treatment meted out to former MP C H Vijayashankar, an influential Kuruba leader from Mysuru who was in the BJP and joined the   recently.
 
 The senior pontiff told TOI said the mutt treats all parties equally. “I’m still upset with the BJP leadership for ill-treating Vijayashankar when he was in the BJP. He was a dedicated RSS and BJP worker. He joined the Congress as he was not treated well in the BJP. But my absence at the mutt during Shah’s visit has nothing to do with my disappointment with the BJP,” he said.
 
 “Though the preparation for the OBC meet has been going on for a month, nobody from the BJP had contacted me. I told the BJP I’d already promised to meet Rahul. How could I meet both leaders the same day? I sent the branch heads to meet Shah. As per our mutt tradition, we honour all leaders equally and honoured Shah accordingly,” he said. 
 
 The pontiff also said the branch heads urged Shah to give tickets to Kurubas wherever possible and Shah promised to do it.
 
 
