BENGALURU/KOLAR: A   carrying the   from Kolar toBengaluru was stranded after cops allegedly stopped it on NH-48 on Monday night, citing the   The drama lasted for 15 hours till   intervened and allowed the vehicle to move on Tuesday.

 Muniraju, member of Sri Rama Chaithanya Vardhini Trust, alleged that Bengaluru development minister K J George had tried to prevent the statue’s movement, citing election code of conduct, but the minister clarified he had no such intention.
 
 George said this has been clarified before the chief election commissioner as well. The statue is to be installed in Sarvagnanagar constituency, where George is certain to be the Congress candidate.
 
 Trust members claimed the statue, which stands taller than the Gomateshwara statue (57ft) of Shravanabelagola in Hassan district, will be the biggest Hanuman statue in the world.
 
 Muniraju said the statue is rough-hewn and the final sculpting will be done at the place where it will be installed. Work on Hanuman, carrying Lord Rama and Lakshmana on his shoulders, is expected to be completed by next year.
 
 “The statue is being transported from Byrapura, near Narasapura in Kolar district, where it was carved out of the monolith. We are transporting it on a German-made special vehicle which left Byrapura on Sunday. The statue may take another seven days to reach its destination, as we have to carefully wade through city traffic and narrow congested streets,” he explained.
 
 The monolith, out of which the statue was carved, was found in Byrapura. Weighing about 1450 tonnes, it had to be lifted 4 feet from under the ground to facilitate sculpting. “We searched for such a large stone for three months. About 30 sculptors from Shivarapatna, a village in Malur taluk of Kolar district, renowned for its traditional sculpture, were pressed into service to downsize the monolith to a 750-tonne statue.
 
 At Kacharakanahalli, the sculptors will be joined by other world-class sculptors to complete the task. The statue is expected to be fully ready before next April, and be installed by Sri Rama Navami,” said Muniraju.
 
 
