CHANDIGARH:   have taken a liking to temples in the city. Their love spurred them to strike at two places of worship located just a km away from where former Prime Minister Dr   was staying in the early hours of Wednesday.

 Despite heavy police force patrolling the area near CRRID in Sector 19, thieves broke into the two temples in Sector 27 and stole silver ornaments worth Rs 10 lakh, a day after they struck in Sector 19.
 
 Suspecting the involvement of a gang in the recent temple thefts — five in three months — police said the thieves first targeted Sanatan Dharam temple and then Digambar Jain temple located opposite it.
 
 Sanjeev Sharma, general secretary, Sanatan Dharam temple, said four men scaled the boundary wall around 1.40 am and stole five silver crowns and silver shields weighing around 10 kg. The theft came to light around 5 am, when a helper came to open the doors and found locks broken and ornaments missing. He informed the priests and temple management. At the time of the incident, 11 people were inside the temple, but nobody heard any noise.
 
 According to police officers, CCTV footage showed the thieves left the Sanatan Dharam temple at 2.09 am and after a few minutes two of them entered Digambar Jain temple and fled with the canopy of a 40-foot tall idol of Digambar Jain Muni. The canopy weighed around 8 kg.
 
 CCTV camera footage showed the accused entered at 2.21am and escaped at 2.26 am. The watchman of the Jain temple chased the accused, who managed to flee. The temple authorities informed the police.
 
 On receiving the information, Satish Kumar, DSP (east division) and Jaspal Singh Bhullar, station house officer, Sector 26, reached the spot.
 
 A dog squad and forensic team were called and fingerprints taken from both the crime scenes. Police also collected CCTV footage from both the temples. A police officer said two accused had covered their faces, while the rest were not wearing any masks.
 
 The DSP said the Sector 26 police registered a theft case and the CCTV footage was being scrutinized to get clues about the accused. On Tuesday, thieves had decamped with 10 gold-plated crowns and nine canopies from Sita Ram temple in Sector 19.
 
 BOX
 
 Cops miss them by 2 mins
 
 1.40 am | Four men scale boundary wall of Sanatan Dharam temple in Sector 27 and steal five silver crowns and silver shields weighing around 10 kg
 
 2.09 am | The thieves come out of the temple
 
 2.21am | Two of them enter Digambar Jain temple
 
 2.23am | A PCR vehicle is seen plying outside the temple
 
 2.26 am | The thieves flee with canopy of a 40-foot tall idol of Digambar Jain Muni even as temple guard chases them
 
 
