Bengaluru: Human-wildlife conflict across Karnataka has killed 149 people in the past three years – accounting for almost one death every week. Elephants are at loggerheads with humans the most, followed by leopards, tigers and bears. Most lives were lost in Virajpet (16 deaths) and Madikeri (12), both in Kodagu district. 

 Data on conflict was collated by the forest department from its 36 forest/wildlife divisions between 2014-15 and 2016-17. The numbers showed that after Kodagu, places like Ramanagara, Hassan, Tumakuru and Chamarajanagar fared the worst on human casualties in such conflict. Minister for forests, ecology and environment B Ramanath Rai presented the data in the assembly recently in reply to an unstarred question.
 
 The forest department said it had paid Rs 7.4 crore as compensation to the families of the deceased. “Starting from August 2011, the compensation amount for the families of those who lost their lives in conflict situations has been revised to Rs 5 lakh. We are taking steps to ensure that the compensation amount reaches the family as early as possible,” said a senior forest official. 
 
 The official said conflict was inevitable since wild animals, especially large ones like elephants, need large forestscapes. “However, shrinking habitats, fragmented forest areas and change in land use has led to these animals coming in frequent conflict situation with humans. Also, the crop pattern being followed by farmers in the villages that are located around the forest areas also attract elephants to stray out of the forest,” he added.
 
 As a mitigation measure, the official said, awareness programmes were beind held for villagers from areas bordering forests. “Such awareness programmes include talks about wildlife behaviour, changes in crop pattern and how to react when they see wild animals. We are installing various types of barriers, including solar fencing, trenches and other methods. We are also taking steps to create artificial tanks inside forest areas and ensure vegetation to retain animals inside the reserves,” he said.
 
 
