JAIPUR/ALWAR: Even after three days have passed since fierce dust   affected the eastern parts of Rajasthan, the local administration till Friday was yet to restore basic amenities like power,   supply and even clearing roads from fallen electric poles and trees. According to an estimate as many as 7,000 electric poles were uprooted in the three affected districts.

 Chief Minister, Vasundhara Raje also visited the affected areas in Deeg area in Bharatpur district of the state and reviewed the restoration work undertaken by the government officials. On the other hand as per government figures the toll has risen to 35 with two more succumbed to death, however the unofficial figures say 42 people so far were killed in the fatal storm.
 
 “The officials of Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited(JVNL) and other concerned are burning midnight oils to restore electricity at many villages. It is a herculean task since at many affected villages in  , Bharatpur and Dholpur districts of the state many transformer and power sub-stations were damaged,”said an official who was part of the rescue and restoration work.
 
 Raje visited Jathnoor village and met the grieved families and also assured every possible help to the family and other victims. During the visit the chief minister specially asked the officials to expedite the relief work. Thereafter Raje left for Dholpur and also urged the Bhamashahs to come forward in this crisis time to help the people affected by the deadly storm.
 
 However, terming the chief minister’s visit a “gimmick”, Vishvendra Singh, the Congress MLA from Deeg-Kumar, said, “ The compensation of Rs 4 lakh is inappropriate. Dust storms have not just taken the toll of human life but it has also affected the harvested crop and at many places people have lost their cattle. We as an opposition demand a compensation of at least Rs 10 lakh, a government job for kin of deceased, immediate girdawari and census of lost and killed cattle.”
 
 Similarly in Alwar at many areas the power and water crisis was on the rise. At many localities the trees fallen on the houses are still there and the relief work was yet to expedite.
 
 
