THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   Forest Survey-2017 has placed   after two other southern states –   and Karnataka – for contributing significantly to the increase of 6,778 square km forest cover at the national level when compared to the 2015 data. And, the 1,043 sq km increase of forest cover in the state over the two years has been attributed to plantation and conservation activities.

 However, a closer look at the report reveals that four districts including  ,  , Alappuzha and Kollam had in fact witnessed a significant canopy loss during this period. Besides, the report also points out an overall decrease (21 sq km) of forest cover inside the state’s recorded forest areas (RFAs).
 
 
 The dip amounts to 120 sq km (12,000 hectres) in Wayanad, 74 sq km in Idukki, 36 sq km in Alappuzha and 37 sq km in Kollam. Though state forest minister   rules out any large scale forest land encroachment in the state during the last two years, environmentalists point their accusing fingers at regularization of encroached lands, canopy clearing, loss of plantation cover and recurring wildfires.
 
 “The satellite data on forest cover could be erroneous as it might miss out on young plantations in RFAs. Besides, agricultural activities by tribal people also might reduce the canopy cover inside the forests,” said the forest minister. May be, slight changes might have occurred during re-demarcation of forest lands, but there has not been any major forest encroachment during this period, he added.
 
 But, the canopy loss of 12,000 hectres in Wayanad has startled many environmentalists, and some even doubt whether the data is reliable. “Of course, the department has been losing all EFL (ecologically fragile land) disputes in court, especially in Wayanad district. But this is definitely indicative of the speed with which forest lands or EFLs are getting transformed,” said environmentalist Harish Vasudevan.
 
 According to Jayakumar C, the trustee and one of the founding members of Thanal, an NGO in the field of sustainable agriculture, the canopy loss in Wayanad has several reasons. “The aerial photography (the satellite data) could be misleading, but forest cover is being destroyed in a large scale after the Gadgil report on Western Ghats,” he said.
 
 Wayanad also lost a major coffee plantation cover recently. There’s also haste from those who won EFL cases in court in clearing the land, Jayakumar said. Wildfire, according to him is another major reason for canopy loss both in Wayanad, especially in north Wayanad, and in Idukki.
 
 However, in Idukki, environmentalists blame the loss of forest cover on the government which is ‘regularizing encroachments by issuing title deeds, violating the   verdict’. “The loss of   is the best example. The state has lost forest lands in this manner in a big way during the last couple of years,” Harish said.
 
 Though, this latest biennial forest cover assessment has cited improvement in interpretation due to better radiometric resolution of the recent satellite data from Resourcesat-2, it has listed out various limitations of the assessment exercise. They include obscurity due to clouds and shadows, non-availability of season data, occurrence of weeds like lantana in forest areas and agricultural crops like sugarcane and cotton and young plantations with less chlorophyll or poor foliage which may not be discernible on satellite images.
 
 As per the report, the state currently has a total of 20,321 sq km of forest cover, which is 52.30% of the total geographical area (38,852 sq km), 2.68% more when compared to 2015 data. The current cover includes 1,663 sq km of very dense forest, 9.407 sq km moderate dense forest and 9,251 sq km open forest.
 
