TRICHY: To be a successful farmer, one has to plump for multiple cropping so that he gets a regular income on a daily and monthly basis. M  , 35, a progressive   from Inam Puliyur, has been advocating this widely-accepted but not widely practised method. 

 He cultivates black gram, green gram, paddy, jasmine and banana on his land. But what has ensured him a steady income from his four acres of agricultural land is his decision to grow leafy greens which he even exports. Paddy and banana are the main crops in Inam Puliyur and surrounding areas, but Kalidhas sells around 1,500 bunches of leafy greens every day at Rs 10 per bunch. They were being sold in neighbouring districts and flown to foreign countries through export agents, he said. 
 
 Over the years, Kalidhas has experimented a lot and learned that a little pragmatism is called for on the field. “Basically we should learn how to get the maximum yield with regular income by farming a variety of crops”, says the BSc graduate who also owns a tractor agency. He has been raising a variety of greens like ‘Arai Keerai’, ‘Mulai Keerai’, ‘Siru Keerai’ and ‘Mana Thakkali’, of which the last two are ready for harvesting every 17th day of sowing seeds. The other two mature on the twelfth day. “We can harvest greens every day for six months,” he said. Kalidhas earns Rs 45,000 as profit from an acre of green cultivation.
 
 As they are forced to shell out much for fertilizers and pesticides, he appealed to the government to restore subsidy for fertilizer. These were not freebies after all, he opined. Like many farmers, he has also been sticking to the organic way of cultivation, which was one reason he was able to export his greens. Instead of urea, he uses green manure (Thakkai Poondu) and neem seed or oil as a substitute for chemical pesticides. “Farmers should plan their cultivation in a manner that their efforts fetch returns on a daily basis. In the case of black gram and green gram, farmers can harvest within three months while for paddy the crop period is three to four months. Banana is a one-year crop. Thus, your land should be segregated appropriately before executing cultivation”, Kalidhas said.
 
 He also points out that crops don’t need water every day. “It is enough to water them only when they need it. By using drip irrigation, instead of watering manually, I am able to get a high yield of best quality jasmine, which fetches a better price”, he said.
 
 Kalidhas’s father Marudhu is all praise for his son’s methods. He said that when he was looking after their ancestral land, he was able to harvest only two bags of paddy from an acre. However, after his son took over the responsibility, he was able to produce 60 bags from the same land, he said. “Adopting water management was the main reason for his success. He adopted ‘wet and dry’, method and used cow dung as much as he could, besides bio-fertilizers and organic pesticides. He is using the same for greens also”, Marudhu added.
 
 
