TNN (375 words) Panaji: After Sonshi, Pissurlem village in Sattari taluka, comprising eight wards with a 3,500-strong population, has sought relief to be provided through the district mineral foundation fund (DMFF). The fund, set up in 2015 for the welfare of mining affected people, has largely remained unutilised.  In an affidavit filed before the high court of Bombay at Goa in public interest litigation (PIL), petitioner Goa Foundation said mining activities have taken a toll on agricultural and traditional water sources in the village. Hanumanth Parab, a local, in his affidavit attached to the PIL, has said that before mining started, 80% of the villagers were into farming. Gradually, agricultural activities reduced as farms and water resources were affected. At present, only about 150 villagers are into farming. He said that though mining began about 50 years ago, its ill effects came to the fore only in the 80s when mining became highly mechanized As many as 11 mining companies operated in the area. Parab said, “Water sources have gradually dried up, causing scarcity of irrigation facilities. Even the consumption requirements of villagers have been hit. Nullahs that form a part of the drainage system are completely blocked with mining silt. In fact, few years ago, this led to flooding in the village following heavy rainfall.” Earlier, Pissurlem was a self-sufficient villager with more than 30 functional wells. However, only 15 of these wells survive and are able to provide water during and immediately after the monsoon. They become completely dry during the mining season and in summer. Villagers have to depend on tankers to meet their drinking water needs. Two mining companies supply water with two tankers that make four trips a day. The tankers, Parab said, are old and rusted and hence, the water quality is poor. Also, as villagers do not have proper storage facilities, they use plastic drums and this limits the quantity of water each family can store at any given time. The PWD had laid a pipeline through the village about 25 years ago, but it was damaged and can supply water for only an hour.  The petitioner has prayed that a part of DMFF be utilized to provide water tanks, repair the water supply systems and maintain regular supply in the village.