NEW DELHI: The PMO wants a major change in the policy related to allocation of services and cadre for 1,000-odd candidates selected every year in 
  . It has suggested that their cadre and services should be allocated only after the three-month foundation course. 

 
  The ministry of personnel has written to all cadre-controlling authorities and ministries and sought their comments on the possibility of probationers being allocated the services and cadre based on their performance during the foundation course. This might provide a better assessment of candidates and their suitability to various cadres, it is felt. Currently, civil servants are allocated cadre and services before starting of the course . 
 
 Currently, civil servants for 24 services, including Indian Administrative Service, Indian Police Service, Indian Foreign Service, Indian Revenue Service and others, are allocated cadre and services before commencement of the foundation course, according to their rankings in the exam, conducted by the  . These relate to the states they are attached to even as they serve periodically at the Centre and are under its control in terms of promotions and discipline.
 
 After the cadre and services are selected, the   and   probationers undergo their foundation course at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LSBNAA) in Mussoorie. Probationers from other services are sent to academies in Mussoorie, Hyderabad and Bhopal. A communication sent by the department of personnel and training to the cadre-controlling authorities stated that ".... the PMO has desired to examine if service allocation/cadre allocation to probationers selected based on the examination be made after the foundation course".
 
 Minister of State for personnel Jitendra Singh said: "There was a suggestion to this effect which has been followed up by eliciting the views of all stakeholders. At present, the issue is still in the consultation stage. There is nothing more to it."
 
 The departments concerned have been asked to examine the feasibility of giving due weightage to performance in the foundation course and making service as well as   to all-India services officers, based on the combined score obtained in the civil services examination and the foundation course, the communique said.
 
 TOI spoke to several serving and retired civil servants who claimed that the move has both pros and cons.
 
 An officer said if the foundation course is made mandatory before the cadre/service selection, the probationers will start taking the course seriously. "A lot of newly selected civil servants take the foundation course as just a formality because they know that they have been allocated cadre and services. When their marks and rank in UPSC and performance in foundation course will be at stake, they will take those three months seriously," he said. However, the foundation course being final benchmark for service and cadre selection may have some disadvantages. "If a person who has studied hard to get top rankings in the UPSC exam somehow performs low in the foundation course, and if she is denied the cadre and service wanted or deserved, then it would be unfair for them," said another officer.
 
 
