INDORE: The science teacher of a school in   district found a chilling way to get around the laws against corporal punishment — make the children do it. The teacher allegedly forced students of an entire class to slap three girls for a week.

 Each of the victims was allegedly slapped around 168 times. The father of one of the girl has complained to police, who are in a quandary over who to arrest. They are seeking legal opinion.
 
 What’s even more shocking, the authorities of   in Thandla tehsil condoned the beating, calling it ‘friendly punishment’. “The punishment was meted out by fellow students as teachers are not allowed to give corporal punishment,” said a school official. 
 
 
 
 
 According to the complaint, the three students of Class VI hadn’t completed their science homework on January 11, driving the Manoj Kumar Verma into a fury. “Teacher Manoj Kumar Verma ordered each student to give two slaps to my daughter every day for the next six days,” the father writes in his complaint to Thandla police.
 
 He says that his daughter hadn’t done the homework because she was ill. “The slapping has caused her mental and physical trauma. She is terrified of going to school,” he said.
 
 His complaint put police in a dilemma. “We are talking to government lawyers to see who could be made the accused — the students who acted on the instructions of the teacher or the teacher himself,” Thandla IC Sher Singh Baghel told TOI, adding: “The school children have confirmed that the punishment was given to the victims. There were 2-3 students who were punished by Verma.”
 
 Police are yet to register a case. “The victim was sent for medical examination. No injuries were reported,” Baghel said, adding that their probe shows she was slapped only on one day, not six days.
 
 School principal K Sagar told reporters in Jhabua, “Teachers can’t themselves punish students weak in studies. Thus, Verma made other students execute it. The students did not hit the children hard. It was a friendly punishment aimed at sending the message across.”
 
 
 
