BENGALURU: Namma Metro may have touched a daily ridership record of 4.10 lakh, but poor last-mile connectivity continues to remain a concern.

 The main reason is the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation’s (BMTC) decision to decrease the number of feeder buses along both Metro corridors from 173 to 158. While the number has been reduced from 89 to 74 along the north-south corridor (Nagasandra to Yelachenahalli), it remains the same — 84 — on the east-west line (Byappanahalli-Mysuru Road), where the buses’ frequency has been to reduced to stem losses. 
 
 BMTC officials said they are incurring the maximum losses due to feeder buses plying along the north-south corridor. “The average frequency of feeder buses on both routes is 15-30 minutes now as against the 10-15 minutes earlier. We have taken the step to tide over the operational losses, but we are ready to resume services if there is enough patronage from passengers,” said a senior BMTC official.
 
 Sources said the number is likely to come down further since BMTC’s plea for financial assistance from Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited ( ) has not yielded any results. The transport corporation’s losses from feeder buses stand at Rs 16-Rs 18 crore per year.
 
 “The average daily revenue from feeder services is less than Rs 5,000 per bus. It is not viable to operate them if the sum is below Rs 7,000. At Metro stations like  , there are no bus bays to park the vehicles even for five minutes,” said an official. Most services, except on the Byappanahalli-ITPL route, are running under losses, said officials.
 
 Many users complain the service is not popular due to absence of Passenger Information System boards (which display bus timings) at Metro stations and a cashless ticketing facility, which allows a commuter to use a single smartcard for both the modes. Earlier, BMTC and BMRCL had introduced combo passes to enable passengers to travel in both buses and trains, but they were withdrawn later.
 
  of Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike (BBPV) said: “There is little coordination between the two agencies to ensure last-mile connectivity. BMTC should announce/display feeder bus timings at stations.” BMRCL should extend financial assistance to BMTC to reduce operational costs, he opined.
 
 BMRCL managing director Mahendra Jain said they don’t have any plan to operate feeder buses. “Our focus is on the expansion of Metro lines. One agency is not expected to compensate for others’ losses,” he remarked.
 
 
 
 
 In the national capital, the   (DMRC) operates feeder buses, so passengers can use the same card for both trains and buses. DMRC also charts bus routes and synchronizes them with Metro timings.
 
