MUMBAI: Though the state is yet to pass the Maharashtra Witness Protection Bill, the police have withdrawn security provided to a key witness in the murder of matka king   and six others in 2008. 

 The withdrawal of security to approver Karan (name changed) assumes significance as recently bail was granted to the key accused in the case, Bhagat's estranged wife Jaya Chedda, and her accomplice Suhas Roge. 
 
 While Jaya's bail was for four months on medical grounds, Roge's bail came after he challenged his conviction under the Indian Evidence Act.
 
 Last August, the state government tabled a bill that aimed to provide security and protection to witnesses and their relatives in criminal trials. The bill proposes that the state government form witness protection committees at the state, district, and metropolitan area levels. Such a committee will decide on providing protection to witnesses who complain of threats to them or their families.
 
 Karan's statement played a key role in getting nine convictions, including of Chedda and Roge, who were sentenced to life imprisonment. "I was informed on Thursday night that my security was withdrawn. My bodyguard was asked to deposit his weapon and report to the protection office. I am surprised at the development. How can they remove my protection as there is a continuous threat to my life? I have time and again complained to the police that when Jaya's son Hitesh, alias Chintu, died, she took an oath to eliminate me," said Karan. A senior police officer said he was not aware of the decision on Karan's security and will revert on Monday.
 
 On June 11, 2008, a truck rammed a Scorpio in which Bhagat and six others were travelling, killing all of them. They were returning from an Alibaug court, where the hearing of a 1998 narcotics case had been held. Among those arrested was the truck's driver, Praveen Shetty, who alleged that there was a conspiracy to kill Bhagat. He named  , who said a contract to eliminate Bhagat had been given by Roge, who in turn told the police that Jaya and her son Hitesh had hatched the plot.
 
 Hitesh and nine others, including Jaya, were arrested and tried under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA). During investigations, it transpired that Jaya, who had divorced Bhagat, had allegedly paid a 'supari' of Rs 45 lakh to her paramour and Arun Gawli gang member Roge. In 2013, all accused were convicted and given life imprisonment.
 
 
