KOZHIKODE: Two young men,   and  , from Pondicherry and Payyavur in Kannur respectively, will pose a major threat for defending champions Kerala men when they take on   in the final of the 66th Senior   here on Wednesday. Railways, who lost in a five-set thriller against Kerala in the 65th edition of the event in Chennai in 2016, will be looking forward to avenging their loss through their experienced campaigners Prabhagaran and Manu.

 
 30-year-old Prabhagaran, who is playing his ninth national championship for Railways, says playing against Kerala in Kerala won’t be a big problem. “Volleyball lovers here will support whoever plays well. We know it’s going to be a tough battle but we will fight hard against them. Spectators know Prabhagaran and I am sure they will support me in the final,” Prabhagaran, who is fondly called ‘Kaka’, said on the eve of the final.
 
 Former Indian captain Prabhagaran was in great form against Services on Monday and captain Manu hopes ‘Kaka’ continues his good show in the summit clash. “Prabhagaran is a champion player. He had a great match against Services in the semis. If he can derail Kerala’s defence like this, we will have the advantage over them,” Manu said.
 
 Playing under India’s renowned coach GE Sridharan moulded him, says Kaka. “Sridharan sir helped me in many ways. He suggested some corrections and it helped me become a more talented attacker,” Prabhagaran, who bagged the best attacker award when India finished second behind South Korea in the 2014 Asian Men’s Volleyball Championship held in Almaty, Kazakhstan, said.
 
 After making it to the finals of the senior championship for the fourth time in a row in which they won the title twice, Manu believes the presence of their veteran star and setter KJ Kapil Dev would have been handy when they face Kerala in final. “We have been playing one-sided games. Except in the second set against Services in the semis, we were hardly tested in the event. Kapil’s presence would have been an added advantage,” Manu said.
 
 It has been a delight watching the rapport between Manu and Prabhagaran. They motivate each other always and if both of them find form, it would be a difficult task for Kerala blockers in the final, feels Kerala coach K Abdul Nazer. “They are two great players. Prabhagaran was the difference between Services and Railways the other day. If they find the rhythm early, our blockers will have to put in extra effort to stop them. Hope we succeed in that,” Nazer said.
 
 Manu, who is playing his seventh national championship, is leading Railways for the first time in nationals. Winning the championship in front of Kerala fans would be a big thing in life, feels Manu.
 
