HYDERABAD: While the   has accorded recognition to over 4,000 pre-primary schools for the 2018-19 academic year, managements rue how the state has issued no clear policy on the curriculum and teacher training programmes for these institutions.

 
  
  
 
 The department, however, has made it mandatory for these schools to employ a sufficient number of qualified teachers, trained ayahs and other supporting staff for the safety of children.
 
 While managements acknowledged the emphasis on infrastructure and safety measures, they said that the department should have also looked into the issue of curriculum, textbooks and teacher training for pre-primary sections.
 
 “The pre-primary section is crucial as the brain development of a child happens at the age of two-andhalf years to five years. While the government has accorded recognition, it has failed to acknowledge the need for a uniform curriculum for the most crucial period of a child’s growth,” said S Madhusudan, founder of a 30-year-old private school that recently secured recognition.
 
 Due to government’s failure in framing a uniform curriculum, managements claim, they are forced to adopt the syllabus published by private players. “Private players have framed pre-primary curriculum using the Montessori method, which is adopted by a majority of the schools. Others frame their own curriculum by teaching basics such as the alphabet and numbers,” said  , president of the Telangana State Recognised School Managements Association.
 
 In fact, according to a report on the   in Telangana compiled by  , the absence of standard curriculum has affected the learning levels of children as the quality of pre-school education in the state is inappropriate for a child’s development. “Low school readiness levels in children are clearly related to the quality of pre-school education. The large scale service providers do not use age and developmentally appropriate curriculum, methods and materials to engage children,” stated the report.
 
 In 2016, the Telangana government had proposed the framing of a curriculum for pre-primary classes. However, sources said the proposal has failed to see the light of the day yet.
 
 Seshu Kumari, director of State Council of Educational Research and Training, could not be reached for a comment.
 
