Indore: Thirty five women have received their share in ancestral property   tehsil - the conservative rural belt of Indore where females are seldom given rights to inherit assets. It’s the result of a campaign launched two months ago in the tehsil to generate awareness about rights of women and facilitate the process of getting them inheritance.

 Depalpur tehsil sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Aditi Garg, who launched the campaign, said in most of the cases, women could not avail this right due to lack of knowledge, while many are left out or asked to surrender the property due to family pressure.
 
 “We held camps in villages and also invited applications in weekly public hearing to register names of the eligible women in land records of the family’s inherited property,” she said.
 
 A ban has also been enforced on mutation of the ancestral assets merely on the basis of presenting an oath-certificate on behalf of female members of the family, she said adding, “We have ensured that mutation should only be carried out by attaching a notified relinquishment deed (in case the eligible female members of the family want to surrender her claim).”
 
 Apart from generating awareness, the administrative officials are micro-monitoring mutation process and appeal cases, where the female member of the family was eligible to claim the ancestral property but was denied.
 
 The campaign idea came after a woman accompanied by her two children had approached SDM during public hearing and sought help in getting claim over ancestral property. “After her marriage, the woman had moved to her husband’s village. After his death, the woman’s in-laws denied to give her anything and her brothers also refused to give her share from ancestral property as her name was not registered in the land records,” the SDM said.
 
 “So far, we have managed to help at least 35 women by enlisting their name in the ancestral property (land records). Many other eligible women have also approached us to help them getting their rights and these cases are under investigation,” Garg said.
 
 
