GURUGRAM: Among the thousands of phone and internet calls that keep the US and Gurugram connected for business, scores of sham ones went out daily from an office in a business park set up in the city by techies.

 
 The call centre was bogus but nothing else was — the employees, mostly young boys and girls in their mid-20s and with a degree of fluency in spoken English, were chosen carefully and accent-trained to sound legitimate.
 
  
  
 
 
 An office was set up in Info City 2, near the Hero MotoCorp plant, two floors were taken on lease, work stations installed and the trained employees put on the job. A website was set up too, pitching the company as and end-to-end IT services consultancy. It named a series of MNCs, including two telecom giants and an energy major, as clients.
 
 
 The employees were given a set of American numbers to call. But not to pitch for business or on behalf of clients. These youngsters had to impersonate   officials, concoct a tax evasion story and put the fear of law in the minds of those they were speaking to.
 
 
 Over a period of around eight months, this operation went on smoothly, bringing in, it is suspected, thousands of dollars in swindled money from Americans who got bullied into coughing up money.
 
 
 The call centre was busted late on Monday when police conducted a raid at the Sector 33 office.
 
 
 The raid, which lasted well into Tuesday morning, ended with the arrest of three people associated with the firm, two of whom are BTech graduates. Police are currently assessing the overall quantum of money swindled by the company, and examining bank accounts of the three arrested men.
 
 
 They have also identified more suspects, who are yet to be arrested. One of those still free is likely the mastermind of the operation. According to the company’s LinkedIn profile, it has 65 employees, of whom, 40 were present during the raid. “They used to pose as   officials, and issue threats to random people, alleging they had discovered the victims were evading tax, and forcing them to pay up,” said DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar, adding they had been tipped off by local informers about the fake call centre, upon which, a joint team of   and Sadar police stations conducted the raid. Kuhar said the call centre was involved in a slew of violations, and promised to crack down on all such operations in Gurugram.
 
 
 The three men arrested, all in their late 20’s, are engineering graduates from reputed institutes. They are   and   from Ahmedabad (both BTech holders) and   Yadav of Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh.
 
 
 They were booked under Section 66D (cheating by personation by using computer resource) of the IT Act, and sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of IPC. The suspects were produced before a local court that sent them into three-day remand. Of the three, Vatsal ran the call centre, while Siddarth managed employees and Brijesh provided tech support. They also seized the company servers and computers. The employees were detained, but released after questioning. A police source said several such call centres were involved in stealing sensitive customer data and selling it to other companies.
 
