NEW DELHI: French President Emmanuel   on Sunday announced an additional investment of 700 million euros for global solar energy generation by 2022 to reduce the use of fossil fuels and help combat climate change. France had earlier committed 300 million euros for promoting solar energy around the world.

 He also heaped praise on India and other nations for turning the   (ISA) into a reality. 
 
 Macron hailed the ‘Solar Mamas’, a group of women solar engineers, and referred to the countries which decided to leave the climate agreement. While complimenting the ‘Solar Mamas’, Macron seemed to take a dig at US President Donald Trump when he said these Mamas had not got bogged down by countries which decided to abandon the Paris climate agreement.
 
 Addressing the summit in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Macron said, “Mr Prime Minister, you made a dream and we did it. It was about this International Solar Alliance. It was two years ago, it was just an idea at that time and we decided together to act very quickly.”
 
 “Our Solar Mamas did not wait for us. They started to act and delivered complete results. They did not wait and stop because some countries (US and others) just decided to leave the floor and leave the Paris Agreement. Because they (ISA nations) decided it is good for them, their children, and grand children. They decided to act.”
 
 Macron said the summit would revolutionise the use of clean energy by generating over 1,000 gw of solar power by 2030. He co-chaired the summit with Modi at Rashtrapati Bhavan which was attended by heads of 23 nations and 10 ministerial representatives.
 
 Among those present were UN secretary general Antonio Guterres and Bangladeshi President Abdul Hamid. Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, however, called off his visit at the last moment because of elections in his country.
 
 As many as 60 nations have signed the agreement to join ISA, while 32 have ratified the agreement and made it possible to make it a legal entity in December last year.
 
 “The   will allocate additional 700 million euros to its commitment to solar energy by 2022,” Macron said. This will take France’s total commitment to the solar alliance to 1 billion euros.
 
 “In 2015, we said we will allocate some 300 million euros to support (solar) projects in member countries. This commitment by France was met a couple of months ago,” he added. 
 
 
