KOLKATA:   giant   is planning to invest over Rs 600 crore for setting up an integrated mega logistics hub in West Bengal. This hub, only second of its kind announced by the   after the Bengaluru centre, will cater to the all eastern and northeastern states and provide employment to around 5,000 people here, a top company official said.

  
  
 
 When contacted, Flipkart vice president   confirmed that it is in an advance stage of setting up a 40-lakh-sq-ft high-tech logistics hub near Kolkata. However, he refused to disclose the exact amount of investment earmarked for this project. “We will buy 80 acres of land for it on a   near Kolkata. We have already started looking for land in these areas,” he added.
 
 If materialised, this will by far be the biggest investment by any e-commerce company in logistics in the east.
 
 The proposed nerve centre of the company’s east India operations will house several Flipkart fulfilment and sorting centres. “It will improve supply chain efficiency and reduce costs by deploying mechanised warehousing and intelligent transport systems. It will also generate employment for over 5,000 people,” he added.
 
 Apart from over 5,000 direct job creation, this hub could provide indirect jobs for 15,000 people in supporting logistics activities, trucking, C&F (clearing and forwarding) services and food catering etc.
 
 Kolkata, the biggest city in the eastern India, is ideally suited to serve the whole region owing to its well-developed infrastructure and transportation channels. “The City of Joy is the third largest urban conglomeration in India, which makes it an apt choice for us to set up a logistics hub,” he added.
 
 The company plans to complete the first phase encompassing 15 lakh sq ft in 18 months time. The Flipkart VP believes that the enhanced storage and supply chain capacity is likely to benefit industries in the entire region with faster deliveries at lower costs. “Hopefully, the hub will help attract new investments in the vicinity, giving massive boost to logistics industry,” Jha said.
 
 The e-commerce major will make this logistics hub carbon-neutral and a net power exporter by deploying solar panels on its warehouse roofs.
 
 
