CHENNAI: City residents will not face water shortage this year, assured municipal administration minister   during a review meeting held at the   head office on Wednesday. The current supply of 650 million litres per day (mld) will be maintained until the December, said Velumani.

 “If the northeast monsoon, which commences in October, fails to bring adequate rainfall, we will tap alternate sources and maintain a supply of at least 600 mld,” said Velumani. The minister ordered officials to take up repair of motors to ensure uninterrupted supply of water.
 
 Current storage in four drinking water reservoirs is enough to serve the city for about five more months. The Chembarambakkam, Poondi, Cholavaram and Redhills reservoirs together hold 4.2tmc (thousand million cubic feet) water.
 
 “We are in talks with Andhra Pradesh government for supply of Krishna water,” the minister said. As per an interstate agreement, AP has to supply TN 12tmc water every year. The minister said work is on to get 8tmc water for the period from July to October. Tamil Nadu has so far received only about 2tmc of Krishna water this year so far. AP has to supply TN 12tmc a year. Last year, AP supplied only 3tmc water.
 
 To create alternate sources of water, the minister has ordered sinking of 10 borewells on the Kosasthalaiyar riverbed and five borewells in Neyveli and Paravanar basins. Like last year, Metrowater will draw 30mld from   quarries (near Mangadu). Water will also be pumped from waterways along city lakes for supply upon treatment. Metrowater will also draw water from Porur and Retteri lakes.
 
 To ensure equal distribution, Velumani has asked officials to set up water tanks in deficient areas. The city already has 9,841 water tanks. “Officials will be prompt in attending to complaints related to water supply. Complaints can be registered over e-mail, SMS or WhatsApp.” He also asked officials to supply sufficient amount of water this summer in 12 corporations including Chennai, 124 municipalities and 528 town panchayats in Tamil Nadu. 
 
 Measures to prevent outbreak of dengue across the state were also discussed at the meeting attended by municipal administration and water supply principal secretary Harmander Singh, Chennai corporation commissioner D Karthikeyan and Metrowater managing director G Prakash among others.
 
