Bhopal: The fate of 1,510 enumerators appointed by the directorate of economics and statistics in Madhya Pradesh hangs in the balance following objections from the finance department. These appointments were made on recommendations by the 13th Finance Commission in 2010, aimed at strengthening the statistics units of the country. They were appointed for a period of one year on contractual basis by a committee constituted under chairmanship of then chief secretaries. The Centre had sanctioned a budget of Rs 50 crore for the purpose. In MP, the directorate of economics and statistics extended the contract every year between 2010 and 2015, considering the importance of their work. However, their extension has been pending since 2015 despite repeated reminders by the directorate. Insiders say the state finance department has refused to sanction any money from its coffers for these enumerators after the finance ministry stopped allocating funds under this head. “Our proposal to extend their contracts further with subsequent allocation of funds has been turned down by the finance department,” ACS-finance Deepak Khandekar told TOI. Most of the enumerators are from poor backgrounds. “We are not in a good condition. An enumerator, who was reeling under depression because of this uncertainty, died last week. He is survived by his wife and two young children. Many of us face the same plight. Finance minister Jayant Maliya has asked the finance department to clear this proposal, but we hear the ACS-finance has raised an objection,” said an enumerator, asking not to be named.  “We believe it is an ego hassle between two senior officials. Our proposal for extension has been turned down. We are told that the matter will be taken up with the chief minister soon,” said an officer. From November 2012 to March 31, 2015, these 1,510 enumerators were paid Rs 8.25 crore in all. Their services were discontinued on March 31, 2015, after the conclusion of the 13th finance commission. Several correspondences were made between the directorate of statistics, ACS (planning) and ACS (Finance), but the uncertainty lingers.