BHOPAL: The   and   will test their preparednessin thecrucial bypolls to   and   assembly segments, ahead of the general elections to the state assembly scheduled later this year.

 BJP kicked off preparations for the bypoll as early as in November last year and roped in eight ministers besides, a handful of senior party leaders to tour the dalit and tribal dominated areas. Chief minister   also launched informal campaign by organising tribal and farmers meet in the region.
 
 
 “We are going to wipe out the Congress from the area with our development agenda. Congress leaders including Scindia have lost their clout in the region and BJP would emerge victorious,” claimed   member and national vice-president Prabhat Jha.
 
 BJP claims that it will wrest both the seats despite an anti-incumbency wave in a bid to limit the influence of Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia in his traditional bastion.
 
 In Kolaras, the BJP targeted Saharia tribals while in Mungaoli, the saffron party is trying to woo dalits through its welfare schemes.
 
 Recently, the CM had announced a financial aid of Rs1,000 per month to each woman of Saharia tribe to fight malnutrition.
 
 Recently, the government announced direct recruitment for Saharia tribals into government jobs. Since last 20 year, this provision was only meant for Baiga and Bharia tribes, who are classified as endangered. The amendment in the reservation rule would help Saharia tribals from Sheopur, Morena, Datia, Gwalior, Bhind, Shivpuri, Guna and Ashoknagar get direct jobs in the state government on the post of Class 3 and 4 employees.
 
 Ahead of by-polls in the two constituencies, chief minister made 300 announcements and 425 promises to help the public with measures like digging tubewells, construction of ponds, facilities for BPL families, irrigation canals for farmers and subsidized schemes for poor. New schools, colleges, ITIs and infrastrucutre was also promised by the government in the two constituencies.
 
 Senior officials of the administration were also instructed to tour remote villages to solve public grievances at the earliest possible.
 
 “We are ready for Kolaras and Mungaoli by-poll and sure to wrest both the seats from Congress,” said BJP state president Nandkumar Singh Chauhan.
 
