HYDERABAD: After the sultry heat conditions, denizens might get some relief as the   (IMD), Hyderabad, has predicted light to moderate rainfall and thunder showers during this week across Telangana.

 
 According to IMD, Hyderabad, the weather conditions across the state will remain cloudy triggered by a low pressure area in   and the Kerala coast. “On March 17-18, Hyderabad will witness development of thunder and lightning, with possibility of rain or thunderstorm. The low pressure area will convert into depression, which will be moving towards north-west resulting in clouding,” said YK Reddy, in-charge director of IMD, Hyderabad.
  
  
 “When the weather conditions are cloudy, the maximum temperature will be few notches lower than the normal temperature. After the depression concludes, gradual rise in maximum temperature can be expected,” added Reddy.
 
 
 Private weather forecasting agencies predicted that the city shall experience light rainfall on March 16. “Sky is expected to remain partly cloudy. Humidity levels will also increase over Hyderabad and adjoining areas due to inflow of southeasterly winds from the  ,” read the weather report released by Skymet on Monday.
 
 
 Skymet predicts that relief is in sight as a trough is likely to form over Telangana around March 16. “This trough is expected to increase the cloud cover and with this, scattered rain and thunder showers are expected over Hyderabad and its adjoining areas on March 16 and 17,” read the report.
 
 
 According to Telangana State Development Planning Society, with the prevailing easterly to southeasterly wind, maximum temperatures are expected to be 2 to 3 degree Celsius below normal at many places over the state, where temperatures are in the range of 34 to 37 degree Celsius. “Thereafter, it is expected to rise gradually. The minimum temperatures are expected to be 2 to 3 degree Celsius above normal at many places and more than 19 degree Celsius at most places, which are in the range of 20 to 26 degree Celsius,” read the report.
 
