Nagpur: In a big boost to the cash-strapped Nagpur Municipal Corporation, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has assured to provide financial assistance of Rs245 crore from his ministry to undertake widening of 3.28km-stretch of old   road from   to   T-point.

 In a meeting with a delegation of Madhya Nagpur Vikas Aghadi president  , the organization engaged in pursuing the much needed road widening, Gadkari asked the civic body to submit a proposal with his ministry at the earliest. Accordingly, the   to has started the process, said municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal.
 
 The proposal to widen the stretch was first made in 1965. Widening of the road is in the city’s master plan since 2000. Till early 70s, the road was wide enough for two buses to pass, but over the years, shopkeepers have encroached upon the road.
 
 The width of the road is now 20 feet that hinders smooth movement of vehicles. Even on July 17, 2017, the high court had directed the NMC to take up road widening works within three months. But due to casual approach of the civic body, the road widening work was not started.
 
 TOI too highlighted the issue several times in the past. During a spot inspection, it came to fore that if the road is widened, many shops will have to be demolished. At some places, the road has been encroached so much that the width is only 4 metres. At other places, it is 14-15 metres. The road serves as a major link between central Nagpur and other parts of the city, and also provides access to the Ring Road.
 
 In 2016, the NMC had undertaken a survey and land acquisition for widening the road to 60 feet was initiated. Even the land was identified and found that if the road is widened, 444 houses will be affected. The civic body could provide   and FSI to the affected families. However, no progress has been made since then.
 
 Dadwe said if the NMC widens this road, traffic congestion on Central Avenue will be eased to a great extent.
 
 “Currently, frequent traffic jams dissuade even pedestrians from using the road. More people will be able to visit the city’s old trading hub once the road is widened, he said.”
 
 “Around 90% people residing along the road have violated the sanctioned building plan and have erected structures on the land that was to be kept vacant,” Dadwe stated in a memorandum.
 
 
