Chandigarh: Panjab University (PU) senate on Saturday has decided to include one member of the   (NCW) or a nominee of the   member to the two already-recommended members to be sent to the chancellor of the university to probe the sexual harassment plaint against V-C Prof Arun Kumar Grover.

 On January 10, the syndicate of the varsity had decided to send the names of Jyoti Arora, additional chief secretary of Haryana, cooperation department and ACS, vigilance department and Navraj Sandhu, principal secretary to the government of Haryana, higher education and technical education to chair the committee. Now, one more NCW member would be added to the recommended names.
 
 However, out of the 17 senate members present while the decision on this particular matter was being taken, seven members including Ashok Goyal, Keshav Malhotra, Harpreet Dua, Naresh Gaur among others have demanded an independent committee to be formed by the chancellor M Venakaiah Naidu. It was decided that the biodata along with the names of these people should be sent to the chancellor so that he can constitute the committee. Then the committee will have to complete the probe within 90 days. Since the complaint is against the V-C, the meeting to decide on the names of the committee was chaired by senate member Raunki Ram.
 
 Senate member Shelly Walia said he was certainly not pleased with the names of the IAS officers. He was of the view that academicians should be included in the committee. Senate member Prof Chaman Lal suggested including one member from the NCW.
 
 While some members demanded the chancellor should form the committee and the names should not be sent from the university, senate member Ambassador I S Chadha said that the university cannot violate the   directive since the MHRD had asked the university to recommend names for the committee, which would then be approved by the chancellor. 
 
 The syndicate had earlier recommended the name of the former chief secretary of Haryana, Meenakshi Anand Chaudhary, who had refused to chair the committee since she was not currently employed anywhere, which goes against the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
 
 On this, Ashok Goyal asked if the House had taken consent of Arora and Sandhu now. To this, Raunki said that once the names go to the chancellor, he would himself ask them. 
 
 Meanwhile, Ashok Goyal and Keshav Malhotra said there was a difference between the note circulated and proceedings of the last syndicate meeting, the part where the sexual harassment against the V-C was discussed. On this, the registrar said the V-C had narrated everything from a script and while one speaks and records the things, some difference might be there, which can be amended and was not an issue. 
 
 Raunki said the matter has been lingering since two years and eight months and this is the time it should be resolved. 
 
 
