PUNE: Four persons brutally murdered a 24-year-old man barely a few metres away from the   late on Tuesday night over “old enmity”.

 The deceased has been identified as Akash alias Rayba Tanaji Landge of Chinchwadgaon. He was with one his friends, Prashant Dnyanoba Veer (44) of Chinchwadgaon, when the incident occurred.
 
 
  
 
 Acting on the complaint lodged by Veer, the Chinchwad police examined the CCTV footage recovered from different cameras located in the area and registered a case of  .
 
 “Veer has named two of the four suspects in the complaint. They both are criminals on police records. We are investigating further to ascertain the identity of the other two assailants,” an officer from the Chinchwad police said. 
 
 The police said the CCTV footage has revealed that Landge and Veer were standing near a parked car on a road around 11pm when the attack happened. “The suspects reached the spot on two motorcycles and launched a brutal assault on the Landge,” the officer said. 
 
 He said the suspects were armed with sharp weapons and iron rods. “When Landge started running away from the spot after noticing the four men charging at him, they chased him down to attack him with the weapons and the iron rods. They also picked up cement paver blocks from the road and smashed them on his head. All this happened in just few minutes,” the officer added.
 
 Since the attack was unexpected and so quick, neither Landge nor Veer got the opportunity to act against it. “After the attack, the suspects drove away from the spot on their motorcycles,” the police said.
 
 Veer and the police later rushed Landge to the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Pimpri, where he succumbed to his injuries during the wee hours of Wednesday.
 
 Of the four suspects booked in the case, two were booked earlier in serious offenses and were also externed from Pune city and district limits a few years ago. The police said Landge too was involved in a robbery case. “He was unemployed,” the police added.
 
 
