MUMBAI: After cracking down on restaurants and bars found with illegal constructions and other violations of norms, the BMC plans to inspect theatres and malls. Dedicated officials appointed by the fire brigade are to start visiting such premises starting Wednesday.

 
 The BMC has issued a notice to   in  , Lower Parel, for using excessive space than what was permitted to them. “On Tuesday, when we went for inspection, we found that the encroachments had been removed,” said a civic official. Other places against which action was taken include Sushegad in   and Gomantak in Dadar.
 
  
  
 One official has been appointed per fire station for dedicatedly going around with a team of ward level civic staff and inspect theaters and malls. Following the blaze at two rooftop resto-bars in Kamala Mills Compound on December 29, the BMC went on a spree to inspect restaurants and bars. Notices were issued to those found violating license conditions. A civic official said that just in the last two days, 619 premises were inspected, of which four were sealed. The sealed hotels include Ambika Sweets in B ward (the Sandhurst Road area), a farsan mart in   and Better Homes in Andheri (east). “While action against eateries operating in an unauthorized manner would continue, we would also start inspecting malls and theaters,” said a BMC official.
 
 Following a blaze on December 18 at a snack-making unit at  , in which 12 workers were killed, the BMC decided to form inspection teams in each of the 34 fire stations in the city to check if commercial and residential premises in their jurisdiction followed fire safety norms. The municipal commissioner instructed that apart from the 2,223-odd firemen and officials involved in firefighting operations, it was essential that a dedicated cell be formed at the fire station level to work with ward officials and crack down on erring establishments. In the case of Saki Naka’s  , where the December 18 fire occurred, large amounts of hazardous material were found stored without permission.
 
