PATNA: The first day of   ended well, especially for those who stay away from home. Many   in the city provided them early morning (‘sehri’) and evening meals (‘iftaar’) before and after the fast (‘roza’) on Thursday.

 Eateries in areas like   and Ramna Road prepared variety of dishes, including ‘chana’, ‘pakoda’, potato and egg cutlet, bread ‘pakoda’, onion and brinjal fries, ‘imarti’, fruit salad, for devotees to break their fast in the evening.
 
 “We began preparing the meal from 3.30pm on Thursday and continued till the time of ‘sehri’ in the wee hours on Friday. We are open 24X7 during the holy month to serve those who live alone in the city,” Md Mokhtar, the staff of a small hotel on Ramna Road, said and added mostly boys and girls living in hostels came to eat food at the hotel during Ramzan.
 
 Another restaurant owner at Sabzibagh said, “I start preparing ‘sehri’ from 2am so that the food gets prepared on time. I make sure the ingredients used in the process are pure and healthy. Items made of milk like ‘shaahi tukda’, ‘doodh lacchha’ and ‘sewai’ are popular among customers as they make them feel energetic for the rest of the day.”
 
 While some devotees are trying to eat healthy by consuming food cooked at home, those staying away from home are finding it difficult to look for healthy food options to break their fast.
 
 Gulfashan Ehsan, a postgraduate student of a Pune-based college, said, “I am glad my summer break has started during the month of Ramzan. It is important to have healthy food after breaking the fast, but my hostel canteen does not provide hygienic food.”
 
 Working professionals rued that they did not get much time in office to have proper meal during ‘iftaar’. According to Anam Ahsan, a dentist by profession, “My patients are my first priority. I break the fast with a ‘khajoor’ (date) and some water and take my meal once I reach home.”
 
 Imbesat Imam, a working mother, told TOI, “I keep my food simple and conserve energy as much as possible. As my son’s school is shut, it is easier for me to manage everything at home.”
 
 
