LUDHIANA: The datesheet released by the   (CBSE) has left students worried. Students of the humanities stream do not have leave between a few of their exams. 

 On receiving complaints from students, parents and teachers, CBSE authorities attributed the schedule to cross-subject choices and said they tried to draw up the datesheet to make sure exams end on time so that students prepare for competitive exams. Many schools have written to the board regarding change of datesheet but they haven’t received a reply yet.
 
 Humanities students are riled at the lack of consideration for their revision requirements. 
 
 “Unsurprisingly, like every year, CBSE has made the datesheet without taking into consideration subjects of Humanities students. How can they expect us to write extensive theory papers without a holiday? Even if students are well-prepared before the exams, they need sufficient time for revision and relaxation. It is impossible to go through 18 chapters before the exam. But we are left with no other option but to withstand the burden and study,” said  , A student of BCM school. 
 
 On her plan of action now, she said, “For subjects with less or no holidays, it is important to cover short notes that cover the entire syllabus so that optimum revision can be done before the exam. I will divide my time fruitfully and study two to three subjects which have 15 to 20 days gap in between before exams. I will solve as many sample papers and give maximum tests so that the paper pattern can be gauged. I will identify my weak areas. I will not leave anything to the last moment.” 
 
 Students who have prepared in advance are relatively relaxed. “The date sheet comes as a big surprise for us. But instead of stressing about it, I plan to work hard. I plan to work day and night to finish my syllabus in 1.5 months so that I don’t face difficulties at the last moment. I know it’s difficult, but I’ll try my best,” said Vritika Jain, a student of Alpine International school.
 
 A few students even signed a petition against the datesheet but to no avail.
 
 “The date sheet is a big shock for those of us of the humanities stream who have to appear for the board exams. We signed petitions against the datesheet but nothing has been done. I have just one or two days off before a few of my major exams. I have made a schedule of how to go about preparations and I plan to finish my syllabus before the exams,” said  , a student of Alpine International.
 
 Vipul Budhiraja, a city-based acadmecian advised students to keep calm and focus on subjects with the minimum preparatory holidays. He asked students to make short notes or flows of weak subjects and finish revision by February 20.
 
 
