MUMBAI:   is set to embark on a Rs 56-crore   that involves acquiring a variety of animals from zoos around India and the construction of numerous enclosures. The initiative comes on the heels of the successful completion of the  , which has increased footfalls.

 At the   on Wednesday, the plan to construct enclosures for tiger, lion, swamp deer, nilghai, barking deer, sambar deer and an aviary in the Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan va Pranisangrahalaya popularly known as   zoo received a green signal from the civic standing committee.
 
  
 Zoo director Sanjay Tripathi told the committee that his office was “in talks with various zoos” to acquire animals. “For instance in case of the tiger, we are talking to the Kanpur, Chennai and Aurangabad zoos while for a lion we are in talks with the zoo in   in Gujarat. The Kanpur zoo meanwhile has already agreed to give us a pair of swamp deer,” he said.
 
 Corporators, however, questioned the need to build new enclosures. Bandra corporator and civic standing committee member Asif Zakeria said, “I thought these animals were already available with us and the BMC was then planning to go ahead and make these enclosures.” Shiv Sena corporator Milind Vaidya wondered what would be placed within the enclosures considering that the animals were yet not available. “If the administration is spending crores of rupees they need to be clear on where these animals would come from. Byculla zoo is a huge tourist spot and therefore it’s essential that we implement new works in a way that there is a proper output to it,” said Vaidya. 
 
 The corporators said the contract was being given to a company which had no expertise in such work. “There seems to be no lessons learned from the fiasco that happened during the construction of the penguin enclosure in which the contractor M/s Highway Construction Company claimed to have a joint venture with SIVAT Services which is known to have expertise in the field of aquatic life support systems and exhibits but later it was found that the joint venture was never done. Therefore this time the BMC needed to be extra careful and give the contract to someone having the expertise,” said BJP party leader in BMC Manoj Kotak.
 
 Zoo director Tripathi, however, pointed out that under Central Zoo Regulatory Authority norms, it was essential that the enclosures be ready before the animals are brought in. “The contractor would need to sign MOUs with companies having expertise in various works which are required for the new enclosures like acrylic mesh, rockwork. In case of the same not being done, the EMD (earnest money deposit) of the contract to the tune of 1% of contract cost stand to be forfeited,” said Tripathi. The seven enclosures need to be ready in a period of 16 months.
 
 
