In the latest episode of  , Kartik and Naira worry about the test results. Naira tells Kartik to be positive and says that they have nothing to worry about. Dadi also prays for the couple.

 
 As they are about to go to the clinic to collect the test results, the Singhanias come dancing in a very cheery mode. Seeing the celebrations, Kartik and Naira ask them the reason for celebrations. Naksh says that he had gone to the clinic and got to know that Naira's test results were absolutely okay which meant that they could have children. Kartik and Naira are elated and they hug each other.
 
 The whole family rejoices. Dadi thanks God and says that they should go to the temple and keep an idol of Lord Krishna there. 
 
 Rahul and Suhana pass by the Goenka house and see the celebrations. They say it is time for them to do their work. They decide to go to the temple as well.
 
 Rahul and Suhana search for a lady named Savita. They see her stealing slippers from the temple and scold her. Rahul tells her about Suhasini. Savita sees Suhasini carrying the gold idol and wants to steal it. Suhana takes her away and says they have to give her a makeover before she helps them.
 
 Dadi, Naira and Kartik pray. Savita stands next to them. Once they go, Savita steals the idol. 
 
 Kirti hugs Naksh and says she is feeling happy for Naira and Kartik. Naksh says that their joy has doubled. He feels a pinching pain in his back and sits down.
 
 Dadi, Naira and Kartik get back home. Suwarna wants them to discuss Aryan (Shubham) and Suhana's marriage as the day was auspicious. Manish feels they should wait but Dadi says they should speak with Suhana's family members soon. 
 
 Dadi gets a call from the priest who informs them about the missing idol. Suhana scolds Savita for being involved in petty crimes which could land them in trouble. Savita suggests Suhana to gift the idol to the Singhanias as it could impress them.
 
 The family is very upset about the stolen idol. Naira asks them not to worry. Dadi feels that a bad omen has struck the family. Kartik and Naira say that they will get the idol back.
 
 At the Singhania house, Bhabhi maa and Devyani wonder about the kaada which they were to give to Kirti. Devyani tells them the entire truth. Bhabi maa decides to speak with Kirti about the same.
 
