PATNA: Authorities of many city schools have expressed concern over poor performance of students in the Class X pre-board examinations. The examinations were necessitated following abolition of continuous and comprehensive evaluation (CCE) scheme by the   (CBSE) from academic year 2017-18.

 CBSE, India’s only public national school board, decided to make the Class 10 board   optional by implementing CCE in the academic year 2010-11. Lifting the stress of a public exam off the shoulders of young students was one of the reasons for the decision. However, the CBSE reversed its decision in 2016 and made the Class X board exams compulsory from 2018.
 
 Educational experts, however, apprehend that the poor performance of students in Class X pre-board exams held in January in city schools will have its adverse impact on the Class X board exams scheduled to start from March 5.
 
 Coomar Arunodaya, vice-chairman of Krishna Niketan, said CCE scheme destroyed the education system in the country. “After the inception of CCE, students started taking the exams lightly. Under CCE, 70% of a Class X student’s final marks used to come from internal evaluation and the rest from the board-based exams. In case of students opting for school-based exam, 100% marks used to come from internal evaluation. Thus, the students were only trying to woo their teachers to get good marks. Now 80% marks is in CBSE’s hand. Hence, students are feeling the pressure,” Arunodaya said.
 
  principal Brother   said, “To get good results, parents should understand the potential of their kids instead of pressuring them to obtain high percentage. Since students are not trained to study the whole syllabus at once, it will be a problem for them.”
 
 DAV-BSEB principal V S Ojha said students are not mentally and psychologically prepared for the board exam as they still compare themselves with their seniors, who gave their examinations under CCE when grading system was in place. “Now that students’ results reflect in percentage, parents are feeling the pressure and want their children to study more,” Ojha said.
 
 Abha Choudhary, a senior teacher at Notre Dame Academy, said, “I personally feel that students are stressed as they are doing comparisons with previous batches of CCE. Average and weak students will definitely face difficulties. Parents need to motivate their kids. Students should focus on what they are studying. The sense of achievement and satisfaction on scoring well in board exam will make them more confident as they can evaluate themselves easily at national level.” 
 
 
