NASHIK: Structural conservation of the 17th century Sundarnarayan temple, one of the most frequented temples by tourists, will start after a week. 

 The state archaeological department is currently carrying out documentation work, where each stone is being marked. After a week, the work on replacing stones will start.
 
 Considering the temple’s weak structure, the department has decided to conduct structural conservation. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) completed chemical conservation before  , but vegetation growing around it had weakened the structure. Conservation will be done in a phase-wise manner.
 
 Vilas Wahane, assistant director of the archaeology department (Nashik), said, “At present, documentation is under way. We are numbering each stone. The development plan will also come to us in 3-4 days.”
 
 In July 2015, the ASI’s   circle had initiated chemical conservation work on the temple. However, seeing the large number of cracks in stones of the temple, the ASI halted the chemical conservation work and sought permission for structural conservation.
 
 They said the stones have cracks in them and may loosen or give away over the next couple of years. Removing the surrounding vegetation and chemically conserving the temple was not sufficient as there were cracks in the stones.
 
 The state archaeology department, Nashik had written to its head office in September 2015 to conduct structural conservation. Administrative approval for Rs 4.51 crore and financial approval of Rs 2.5 crore was given for the work.
 
 “After numbering all stones, we will remove them one by one and replace the broken ones. We will fix them and put them back. The temple’s outer layer is damaged. We will do the conservation from the dome till the portion behind the sanctum sanctorum and ‘mandap’ in the first phase. Over the next 8-10 days, the numbering will be over, after which we will start actual work. The entire work will take a year,” Wahane said.
 
 The superstructure (dome) will first be dismantled, after which the stones will be removed.
 
 
