KORATAGERE, TUMAKURU DISTRICT: It is around 11am on Monday. The mercury has touched 37 degrees Celsius at Jatti Agrahara, a small village off the Tumakuru-Koratagere highway.   committee chief G  , 66, contesting from Koratagere constituency, arrives in his MUV to the accompaniment of drumbeats and bursting of crackers.

 Local leaders garland him and guide him into the narrow lanes of the hamlet where Parameshwara, with folded hands, walks up to the doorstep of every household and requests them to vote for him. At a street corner, he stops for a while and villagers surround him. The   state chief reels out welfare schemes initiated by the government and asks them whether their life has changed for good or not. The moment the voters say yes, he asks them not to forget him or his party while voting.
 
 
 
 
 Before the next stop, he takes a briefing from his campaign managers and tells them not to waste time – he wants to cover as many villages as possible.
 
 Voters are surprised by the welcome change in Parameshwara’s campaign style. “During previous elections, I could count the number of villages sahebru visited during the campaign. His visits were limited to hobli headquarters and select villages. This time, preparations began six months ago. After election dates were announced, the campaign gained pace. He has already reached out to areas covered by most of the 250-odd booths in the constituency,” said a Congress worker.
 
 Koratagere is reserved for scheduled castes.
 
 It is obvious that Parameshwara is leaving no stone unturned this time. His loss at Koratagere in 2013 polls to   of JD(S) by a margin of 18,000 votes, his supporters believe, cost him the CM’s gaddi. He has hired a PR agency this time to manage his campaign, document it and give it wide publicity on social media. This team works alongside his army of grassroots workers, cutting across age groups, who know caste dynamics and village politics like the back of their hand.
 
 A post-graduate in agriculture and PhD holder from Australia, Parameshwara hails from a wellknown, affluent Tumakuru familiy that runs a chain of educational institutions. His affluent background does not show as he talks to villagers in their dialect and laces his replies to their angry queries with humour. The fact that he had to keep himself away from constituency rounds owing to the responsibility of handling party affairs for long, might have led to the disconnect which the Dalit leader is trying to patch up hard.
 
 At Damalayyana Palya, a village 6km off the highway, Parameshwara tells people that he accepted with humility their verdict of 2013. “But I have worked hard to help you people in the past five years,” he says, listing out works he got done in the region. He aks villagers whether god will forgive them if they don’t vote for him. “We will all vote for you 100%. We will all vote for the next chief minister,” the crowd roars in unison.
 
 At Navilukurike, another village, Param gets angry with a party worker for dragging him to a Dalit colony. “Do you think my own people (means his community) won’t vote for me. Take me to people who have to be convinced,” he tells him. The very next moment, he realises he may be sending a wrong message. “No, no… let’s visit these people as well,” he pushes himself and carefully listens to the demands of the colony residents.
 
 Every vote seems to be weighing heavily on Parameshwara’s mind and he has no option but to tread very, very carefully.
 
