CHENNAI: A nine-year-old boy on Wednesday night had his life brutally snuffed out by his mother's friend, who kidnapped the child and slit his throat before clubbing him to death with an iron rod in an office in a residential complex in Selaiyur. 

 Investigators arrested E Nagaraj, 27, a marketing manager with a private builder, for the crime on Thursday morning. He told them that he killed   "to teach the boy's father a lesson" - for warning   to sever all ties with his wife, Manjula, 38, a TNEB assistant engineer.
 
 "Nagaraj took Rithesh away from a tuition class in   at 6.30pm on Wednesday," an officer probing the case said.""The tuition teacher, under the impression that Nagaraj was a family friend, allowed the boy to go with him.," the officer said. By the time Rithesh's father  , 38, arrived to pick him up as usual, Nagaraj had taken the boy on his motorcycle.
 
 “Nagaraj said the boy had tosee a doctor for an eye problem,” the officer said. “The tuition teacher, under the impression that Nagaraj was a family friend, allowed the boy to go with him.”
 
 By the time Rithesh’s father S Karthikeyan, 38, an interior designer, arrived to pick him up as usual, Nagaraj had taken the boy on his motorcycle to an eatery in Pallavaram, where he haltedon hiswayto Selaiyur.
 
 The bike broke down near Selaiyur and Nagaraj took Rithesh by autorickshaw to Harini’s Aishwaryam apartments on IAF Road in Indira Nagar, Selaiyur, where the company he worked for had an office on thesecond floor.
 
 “They got there at 7.30pm and Nagaraj led Rithesh upstairs after taking the keys from a security guard,” the officer said. “He locked the door and smothered the boy before slitting his throat with a broken bottle.”
 
 “Nagaraj tried to kill himself by swallowing householdcleaning fluidbut threw up,” he said. “He then realised that the boy was still alive and beat him to death with a rod. Nagaraj leftthebody where itlay and fled the scene. We arrested him in Nesapakkam at 6.30am on Thursday.”
 
 Nagaraj told the police they would find the body in the apartment in Selaiyur.
 
 “Manjula — who got a job with TNEB after the death of her first husband withwhom shehad a daughter, who is now in the care of relatives — tried to assure Karthikeyan that Nagaraj wouldn’t harm the child,” theofficer said. Buthefiled a complaint with the MGR Nagar police.”
 
 “Nagaraj and Manjula grew close as neighbours in Nesapakkam,” he said. Karthikeyan’s warnings had no effecton Nagaraj or Manjula and the woman decided to file for divorce. Relatives helped them patch up. The police arrested Nagaraj when Karthikeyan later accused him of stealing Manjula’s chain. After he got out on bail, Nagaraj moved to Annai Sathya Nagar in Ramapuram, but continued to visitManjula.”
 
 
 
