Nagpur: The roadblock for the public rally in Vidarbha to be addressed by Delhi CM and Aam Aadmi Party national convener Arvind Kejriwal has finally been cleared. After an agitation and sit-in at the police station by AAP workers, the Buldhana district police finally gave its nod on Monday night for the ‘Maharshtra Sankalp Sabha’ to be held at Sindkhed Raja on Friday. Kejriwal has chosen Rajmata Jijau’s birth anniversary to relaunch his party in a big way. The party had garnered good support across the social strata and especially among the youth when Kejriwal made a grand entry in state in 2014. But failure to convert into electoral gains dampened the party leaders’ spirits. Party national spokesperson Priti Menon in a statement on Tuesday confirmed that the ‘Maharashtra Sankalp Sabha’ at birthplace of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s mother Jijau would kick off the party’s preparations in state for the 2019 elections.  “The Congress has failed as the major Opposition party. NCP and Shiv Sena are reduced to opportunists. On the other hand, AAP was responsible in exposing corruption cases in state and leaders like Chhagan Bhujbal and Eknath Khadse were brought to book,” claimed Menon. On the choice of the date and Sindkhed Raja as venue for re-launch, city AAP leader Devendra Wankhade said Rajmata Jijau was a source of inspiration for Shivaji Maharaj to establish Swaraj. “It is the same spirit that guided Kejriwal all through as the chief minister of Delhi where he has provided Swaraj to people by addressing their basic needs,” he added. Kejriwal will be landing in Aurangabad on January 11 evening, stay there for the night and proceed to Sindkhed Raja by road in a large cavalcade the next morning. Meanwhile, on the occasion of Sankalp Sabha, ex-MP and Maratha leader Brig (retd) Sudhir Swant is set to join AAP along with his workers. He is set to merge his outfit with AAP and several ex-bureaucrats and prominent people are expected to join AAP in Kejriwal’s presence at Sindkhed Raja.  There were reports that AAP through Sawant had explored the possibility of ex-MP Nana Patole also joining AAP. But Patole, who quit the BJP and Lok Sabha recently, politely rejected the offer as he was keen on returning to the Congress.