BHOPAL: The state government is in the process of amending Madhya Pradesh  , 1972 (MP Ministers’ Salary Allowances Act, 1972), to pave the way for extending facilities to former chief ministers at par with that of incumbent cabinet ministers.

 An order to this effect was passed by GAD on April 21, 2016 but change in law was necessitated after a law student from  , Raunak Yadav, challenged the legality of this order through a PIL.
 
 Additional chief secretary GAD, Prabhanshu Kamal said, “Yes, the Act is being suitably changed and once it happens, it will be presented before the cabinet.” The PIL moved on behalf of Yadav by advocate S   contended that the April 21, 2016 order should be quashed because it was bad in law, arbitrary, and in violation of Article 14 of Constitution. 
 
 In addition to the government of MP, former CMs Uma Bharti, Digvijaya Sigh and Kailash Joshi were also made party in the petition since they were occupying government bungalows even after demitting office of CM. 
 
 “The petitioner is challenging the order dated April 21, 2016 whereby former chief ministers were granted the benefit of pay scale, allowances and services available to the minister which includes the government bungalow for lifetime after demitting office contrary to judgement passed by the apex court in the case of   Vs state of UP and others,” said the PIL.
 
 The petition pointed out that as per section 5 of MP Mantri Vetan Bhatta Adhiniyam 1972, ministers in MP are entitled to hold furnished government occupation only during their tenure. However, the order passed on April 21, 2016, seeks to give all the facilities and benefits availed by incumbent ministers to former CMs as well including allotment of bungalow for lifetime after demitting office without charging any rent. 
 
 The petition prayed to the court to quash the 2016 order and a direction to the state government to get government bungalows vacated from Digvijaya Singh, Uma Bharti and Kailash Joshi. The petitioner also wanted a direction to follow the   order in the case Lok Prahari Vs state of UP and others.
 
 Appearing on behalf of the state government in the case on December 20, 2017, additional advocate general  , sought four weeks’ time to enable the government to amend the MP Mantri Vetan Bhatta Adhiniyam, 1972. 
 
 The case is listed for hearing on January 22. In the meanwhile, GAD officials are busy changing laws so that former chief ministers can retain the status and facilities of a cabinet minister.
 
 
