Marking its inception in Doon, the   (FLO) organized a   with the theme - 'save the girl child'. Celebrating the spirit of womanhood, the city's first ever women's car rally saw around 60 beautifully decorated cars zooming across city's streets, spreading awareness about the need to save the girl child. The rally was flagged off by Chief Minister   from his official residence and he was accompanied by Doon-born director and screenwriter  . The rally saw cars crossing the Clock Tower, Rajpur Road and it culminated near a senior living home in Purukul.

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said, "Today women are financially independent and more powerful than ever before. They are holding high offices and doing well in all walks of life. Time and again they have proved their mettle and it is high time that in our society, they get their due in the form of respect and equality."
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 Shilpi Arora, chairperson, FLO, Dehradun, said, "Our prime focus is to create awareness about the safety of girl child in the society. Through this rally we have tried to create awareness about women’s safety in public transport and in public places. We also want to break 
 the stereotype that women are not good drivers. A woman can be as good a driver as a man and they should not be judged on the basis of 
 their gender."
 
  
  Rally winners Jyoti, Meetu, Sonal and Archana pose after the event (BCCL/Taresh Dutta)
 
 Nazia Izuddin, one of the participants, said, "I was really excited to be a part of this one of a kind of rally. It was fun to drive through the roads of Dehradun with the help of my friend Manina, who was my navigator. This rally shows that women are no less than men in any field. I'm looking forward to taking part in more such upcoming car rallies."
 
 Kavita Nagpal, another participant, said, "I, along with Ruchi Jain as my navigator, successfully crossed all the seven check points and reached the venue on time. All the participants went home happy."
 
 Meetu Bansal, the winner of the rally, said, "It's a proud moment for me and my teammates to have won the first prize. My husband and I are big time car enthusiasts and we’ve been part of rallies before."
 
 - Taresh Dutta
