KOLKATA: The   Yuva Morcha motorbike rally,  , to coincide with Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary starts with a Calcutta High Court nod on Monday after it was called off amid streetfights two days back.

  president   will flag off the rally at Swami Vivekananda’s ancestral home on Bidhan Sarani. It will head towards Nadia’s Krishnagar for an overnight rest before resuming its journey towards Cooch Behar.
 
 “The rally will be on schedule. We have the HC’s order. Should police — or Trinamool Congress leaders — try to stop it, we will knock on the high court’s doors again. Trinamool ministers and MLAs took to the streets to stop us on Friday. Today, they cancelled bookings at the three guesthouses in Krishnagar where the rallyists were to stay. We had to arrange makeshift accommodation,” said Ghosh. He and BJP leader   will flag off the rally at 10am.
 
 Police sources said the rally would take the following route in Kolkata: Hatibagan crossing-Aurobindo Sarani-Khanna crossing-Gouribari-Muchibazar-Ultadanga main road-Bidhannagar railway crossing-Hudco crossing-Durgapur bridge. Sources said they are expected to take the VIP Road and Jessore Road route from there on the way to Krishnagar. Police said the rally would trigger traffic disruptions when the rallyists pass through the earmarked routes.
 
 Friday’s streetfights had attracted the HC’s notice after its special officer, Rabi Shankar Datta, submitted that his car was vandalised and he suffered minor injuries near Mohammad Ali Park that morning. The HC had appointed Datta to oversee the rally after giving its nod. It then directed the BJP youth wing to suspend its programme for two days and resume it on January 15. It also directed the judicial magistrate and its special officer to jointly supervise the rally from January 15.
 
 Friday’s clashes had turned parts of Pathuriaghata and Central Avenue into a war zone and cast a shadow on the already fraught relations between the BJP-led Centre and the Trinamool-led state, prompting the state BJP to demand President’s Rule in Bengal and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari to cancel his visit to Bengal Global Business Summit (BGBS), the state government’s annual showpiece event, which starts on Tuesday.
 
