LUCKNOW: Two days after anti-terror squad (ATS) additional superintendent of police, Rajesh Sahani, allegedly shot himself in his office, an inspector posted with the ATS chief resigned after accusing IG Asim Arun of mentally harassing the officer. 

  
  
 
 Inspector   had posted his resignation addressed to DGP on  . "I feel Sahni died because some senior officials, including IG ATS, were constantly humiliating him. I have received gallantry medal for bravery. Some officers have a tendency of extorting money by initiating preliminary enquiry and then disposing it after taking hefty amount," stated Sharma in his post, late on Wednesday after Sahani's body was cremated. 
 
 He took it down after it created a lot of flutter. However by then damage had been done. Sharma had already sought transfer from ATS and written to DGP headquarters. On Thursday morning he was summoned to the DGP headquarters. He met   Sanjay Singhal, assistant to DGP, said sources. According to sources, Sharma had sought transfer to the  .
 
 Before leaving the office, when Sharma was questioned by media persons, he avoided to comment on the matter, just saying that "I have confidence in senior officers and I will get justice. I have to reach ATS office and am in a hurry."
 
 When asked whether he stood by what he had written on Facebook, Sharma replied, " Jo mere man mein peeda thi who maine uspe likhe tha (I expressed my pain)". 
 
 He also said that if his family or he suffers from some damage or harm, IG Asim Arun should be held accountable. "I am in ATS office and will not be able to say anything at the moment," Sharma told TOI over phone.
 
 Efforts to reach senior officials for comments including Arun turned futile.
 
 Late on Thursday evening, however, Sharma, posted a fresh post on Facebook saying that he emotionally overwhelmed after Sahani's death and posted his views online. But realising the commitment with which his mentor   worked for the department, he, too, wanted to discharge his duties in the same manner.
 
