Vijayawada: Commissioner’s task force (CTF) sleuths nabbed two   peddlers after a Tollywood film-style   when the accused sped away in their vehicle without stopping at the check-post at Pottipadu toll gate, near Vijayawada, late on Sunday night. The incident took place at about 11 pm.

 According to CTF officials, they received a tip-off saying that two smugglers were transporting ganja from Visakhapatnam Agency to Hyderabad. In an apparent attempt to evade the police, the accused travelling in an Innova car bearing registration number AP 05 BP 4992 refused to stop at the check-post and sped past. In the process, the car rammed a police vehicle. Soon, a high-speed chase ensued for the next three hours even as the car was driven rashly on the highway. Finally, the smugglers were intercepted at Kanuru village and they were taken into custody.
 
 While conducting checks, the CTF officials seized around 300 kg of ganja packed in polythene covers from the vehicle.
 
 “About 300 kg ganja worth of 50 lakh was seized and we also impounded the car. We are interrogating the accused. Investigation is still on,” said a senior CTF official.
 
 Meanwhile, sources said that the gang was involved in the illegal trade for some time and has been notorious in supplying ganja to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.
 
 The police said the accused were also involved in circulation of counterfeit currency. A case was registered against them under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. The CTF have been delegated to crack down on ganja smuggling in the city. Vijayawada stands as a major transit point for the smuggling in the recent years, however cops said that consumption is much lesser in the city. Recently, even the directorate of revenue intelligence too caught a number of major cases in Enkepadu area and other places where they have seized tonnes of Ganja this year. This isn’t the first time the CTF are chasing down ganja smugglers in a dramatic fashion, four months ago they did nab a speeding truck near Nandigama area where they seized more than 900 grams of produce hidden amongst tomatoes. 
 
 
