MYSURU: Notwithstanding his advanced years, 86-year-old  , former Prime Minister and JD(S) president, has been at the forefront of his party’s campaign during the assembly elections. Having worked indefatigably for the past few months, Gowda is eagerly looking forward to a break after the polls.

 The former PM said that he would visit Kerala once the election results were announced. Gowda said that he would unwind, and improve his fitness levels, besides undergoing Ayurvedic treatment during his sojourn in the neighbouring state. 
 
 Exuding confidence of an impressive performance by the JD(S) in the upcoming elections, Gowda said, “We will emerge as the single largest party in the assembly elections, and will form the government with the support of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and others.”
 
 Gowda said that the feedback for the JD(S) had been positive in all the places where he had campaigned. “After campaigning in Hunsur, where Adagooru H Vishwanath is contesting, I am confident that our party candidate will win. I can say the same for Chamundeshwari and Chamaraja segments, where GT Devegowda and KS Rangappa are contesting respectively,” he added.
 
 ‘Bhatkal MLA has threatened our candidate’
 
 Gowda voiced concerns over two Muslim candidates that the JD(S) was fielding allegedly being threatened by Bhatkal MLA Vaidya. “He has threatened our Muslim candidates saying that they will face consequences if they contest the election. The two candidates have spoken to me, and I have, in turn, informed the superintendent of police to initiate action against Vaidya,” Gowda said.
 
 Dismissing speculations of the JD(S) allying with the BJP or the   in the event of a hung verdict, Gowda said, “I personally met BSP chief Mayawati, and sought her support. There is no question of allying with the BJP or the Congress. It is far from the truth. Telangana CM K Chandrashekar Rao, and Andhra Pradesh CM N Chandrababu Naidu too have assured us of their support.”
 
 ‘Ambareesh and I are good friends’
 
 Brushing aside rumours of actor-turned-politician Ambareesh joining the JD(S), he said, “It was HD Kumaraswamy who brought Ambareesh into   by getting him to contest from Ramanagaram constituency. Ambareesh and I are good friends. If we talk to one another, it does not mean he is joining our party.”
 
 Queried about chief minister Siddaramaiah’s persistent taunts aimed at the JD(S), Gowda said, “Aane kala hoithu, note kala banthu (It’s no longer the age of promises, but money).”
 
 
