CHENNAI:   upheld a government decision to scrap the 2017 recruitment exam conducted by   ( ) for 1,058 posts of lecturers in government polytechnics in view of large scale malpractices in selection process.

 Justice SM Subramaniam, on his trademark hard-hitting order, said the fast development of the nation had been paralysed by corrupt activities in public services, said: “Corruption is a great evil, spreading like cancer in our great nation. Corruption is an enemy to the developmental activities. "
 
 After perusing a report submitted by the government Justice Subramaniam said: “It is pertinent to note that several money transactions were found, and the outsourcing company has tampered the hard disks and the original OMR sheets. Thus, it is very difficult to segregate the tainted and non-tainted.”
 
 It is not only the irregularities and corrupt activities, now after investigation, it is found that even before the commencement of the examination, there were conspiracies to commit such malpractices and corrupt activities. Thus, in the progressed investigation, the authorities found that there is a   and corrupt activities in respect of the process of selection, Justice Subramaniam added. 
 
 "Constitutional courts across the country, time and again emphasized that there cannot be any leniency or misplaced sympathy in respect of the corrupt activities. In the event of showing any such misplaced sympathy in such cases, the same will cause not only larger implications, the young minds of this great nation will result in frustrations. Thus, in the event of identifying certain largescale corrupt activities in the process of selection, then the courts have no option, but to take a decision that fresh selection alone will be the best solution," the judge said. 
 
 The issue pertains to a batch of petitions moved by persons who appeared for the exam seeking direction to the government not to cancel the entire exam, but to segregate, only the candidates who are found to be involved in the malpractices. They claimed that genuine candidates should not be penalised for the wrongs done by corrupt few.
 
 On February 22, the   of the court while partly allowing a batch of similar petitions set aside the government’s decision to cancel the entire exam and ordered it to segregate the candidates who involved in malpractices.
 
 When the present batch of petition came up for hearing, the additional advocate general submitted that the government could not provide a clear picture of the magnitude of the scam before the Madurai bench since the inquiry was then in the preliminary stage.
 
 However, as of now, there is a considerable progress and the police officials have given large scale inputs in respect of the corrupt activities. Thus, we are filing a confidential report in respect of the preliminary investigations done by the investigating authorities, the additional advocate general said. 
 
 
