KOLKATA:  , who is regarded as one of best chess players that England has produced, is in city to take part in the   meet. The 52-year-old GM, however, has a bigger battle on hand as he prepares to contest the   that will take place on October 3 in Batumi alongside the Chess Olympiad. With Short throwing his hat in the ring, the   presidential election will see be a three-horse race as incumbent   and the current deputy president   have also announced their candidature for the top post.

 Short spoke about Fide and his vision for world chess during an exclusive chat with TOI.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I feel chess deserves a better choice than the two candidates who are in the fray. I hold them responsible for the deplorable state of the game. The rift between the two presents a good opportunity and it prompted me to step in.
 
 
 
 
 I find it astonishing that a world sports body can close its account and not disclose where that money is. (Fide treasurer on Sunday revealed that the money was transferred to two fiduciary accounts).
 
 Can you imagine the situation if something similar had happened in cricket? It would be a big scandal. I find people have become numb as they feel things cannot be changed. But I believe it can be changed, should be changed and must be changed.
 
 
 
 
 It would be a completely different situation in a three-horse race. If I get the same number of votes that Kasparov got last time, I should easily make it to the second round. I will also place Makropoulos as the favourite ahead of Kirsan this time. I feel finally Kirsan is about to become history. But in my opinion, Makropoulos is Kirsan’s candidate. It was he who had kept Kirsan in power.
 
 
 
 
 I have spoken to him and he supports me 100 per cent. I will go on a seven-nation tour of Africa backed by Kasparov Chess Foundation. It will be a short campaign.
 
 
 
 
 I can only say that I know how to open a bank account and how to keep it operational. That puts me way ahead of the other two (laughs).
 
 
 
 
 There is so much to do. I want to set a minimum standard of governance in national federations. All federations have to have statues, elections and accounts which sadly are missing in many. I also want to cancel the Agon contract immediately which has been a disaster for Fide and cost the body millions of dollars in sponsorship. In 2017 there was $10 million on offer for three World Championship cycles which was much more than that what Kirsan is currently bringing in. But strangely Makropoulos turned down that offer. Fide loses millions of dollars in sponsorship because of its poor reputation.
 
 
 
 
 There is a history of intimidation in chess where, with pressure, the voters change their stance. But this time Kirsan is short on money and people have realized the gravity of the situation. I will go there with dozens of votes behind me. The idea is to get to the second round, and then anything can happen.
 
 
