NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council ( ) has   the work to   50 cycle stations under the “bicycle sharing” project to offer people an alternative way of commuting.

 The cycle stations will   cycles starting at  , from where people can drop it off at any other station. Senior officials claimed that the idea is to encourage non-motorised mode of transport and provide an alternate way to control the rising level of pollution. The Delhi Master Plan 2021 has suggested cycle tracks on all roads but in the current scenario, hardly any dedicated cycle tracks can be seen across the city.
 
  
  
 
 NDMC chairman Naresh Kumar said that private organisations have been made a part of this project and all important places under the jurisdiction will be linked. “We will develop 50 stations in the first phase, and will expand it further, based on reviews for the first phase. The project will be initiated on ground by mid-May,” said Kumar.
 
 The council is planning to link places like metro stations, office complexes, markets etc, where the footfall is high. Connaught Place will see multiple cycle stations connecting the outer and inner circle. “Metro stations, office complexes, market and tourists places will be linked in the first phase, and cycle tracks will also be developed gradually,” he said.
 
 Kumar pointed out that taking a cue from Noida, footpaths and service lanes will be used as cycle tracks. “The   can be taken from a station and people can deposit them at any station near their destination. It will be beneficial for both their health and the environment. Cycling is a habit and these projects will help bring behavioural changes in people, which is the major idea behind this project. We have taken example from Noida, and will develop service lanes and footpaths for cyclists,” said Kumar.
 
 The Mysuru City Corporation was the first city in the country to introduce public bicycle sharing service in 2016, followed by Chandigarh in February 2017. NDMC had conceived the project earlier this year and it was in the pipeline to get the nod from the council.
 
 Senior officials claimed that the service will be extremely beneficial. “The cycles will be available at a minimal cost of Rs 10 per hour and people can drop the cycle at any of the 50 stations. Soon we will also issue cards to the public on similar lines of metro card,” said a senior NDMC official.
 
 “Cycle stations will be constructed near metro stations including — RK Ashram Marg, Patel Chowk, Central Secretariat, Udyog Bhawan, Lok Kalyan Marg, Janpath etc,” said the official.
 
 
