VADODARA: Makarpura police inspector D I Mahida was booked for wrongful confinement and voluntarily causing hurt to a government officer following an altercation with   deputy colllector Dr Dr Apurva Sharma.

 Sharma registered an FIR against Mahida in his own police station alleging that Mahida and some other cops pushed him out of his cabin and later confined him.
 
 On Thursday, police commissioner  , transferred Mahida to anti-human trafficking unit, a sidelined posting where he won’t even have a cabin to sit or an official car to use. Also, a departmental inquiry has been ordered against him and police constable   who allegedly misbehaved with Sharma. 
 
 On Wednesday evening, Sharma had gone to the police station to deposit his father’s licensed pistol. Sharma first went at about 4 pm but Mahida was in a meeting so he went and met the police station officer (PSO). The   referred him to another cop who wasn’t at her table. Sharma was told to come back after an hour. He left and returned to the police station with the licensed pistol.
 
 Sharma met Mahida and told him that he wanted to surrender the pistol as its license period was over. Surprisingly, Mahida told Sharma to submit the weapon in regional transport office (RTO). “When Sharma asked him about the RTO’s location, Mahida got up and pushed him out of his cabin. Sharma told him not to manhandle him,” said police sources.
 
 Sharma then tried to record the misbehaviour of Mahida and other cop on his mobile phone but he was stopped from doing so. During the scuffle, Sharma sustained minor injury on his hand and he was later confined in the PSO’s cabin. Sharma then gave his introduction and showed his identity card.
 
 He was allowed to leave but he immediately called up the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) and later the police control room. When Sharma didn’t get proper response, he contacted Sashidhar.
 
 “I inquired about Sharma’s complaint and found out that Mahida had misbehaved with him. We have zero tolerance for such behaviour as the police have show courtesy to citizens. I don’t approve of what Mahida did. Sharma said he wanted to file FIR against Mahida and therefore he was booked,” Sashidhar told TOI.
 
 Police control room  , A A Vacheta has been given charge of Makarpura police station.
 
 When TOI contacted Sharma, he slammed the phone saying he was not authorized to talk to the media.
 
 PI’s penchant for rash behaviour
 
 Police inspector, D I Mahida, has a history of behaving rashly with citizens. Police commissioner Manoj Sashidhar said, “I had received many complaints that Mahida didn’t meet the complainants and his behaviour was poor. I had warned him a couple of times. The action against him is a stern message to every police officer to behave properly with citizens.”
 
 
