LUCKNOW: Even as the feral dog menace remained unabated in Sitapur, there is a growing number of experts who claim that children were being killed by wild animals and not dogs. In fact, it has led to a war of words between veterinary doctors of Lucknow and   district administration.

 
 
  
  
 
 While Sitapur administration has reiterated that dogs were behind attacks on children for the past seven months, doctors at the   in Lucknow where 22 dogs from   — the worst-hit area of the neighbouring district — have been kept under observation, claim that these canines were normal and could not attack humans.
 
 Sitapur DM, on the other hand, lashed out at the media reports which claimed that dogs were not behind the attacks on children. “All the dogs that were sent to Lucknow were seen attacking children and cattle before being nabbed,” she said, adding “We have eye-witness account of villagers and also the police to verify our claims. No other wild animal can stay in such thin vegetation and attack during daytime,” said Verma.
 
 “The noises they make is of barking unlike any other wild animal. I have personally asked a team of the   (WWF) to visit Sitapur and show a correct picture,” she added “teams of police, forest and administration have been combing round-the-clock since May 1 and nowhere have they spotted any other wild creature so far.”
 
 
 
 
 
 However, doctors at Kanha Upvan contradicted these claims. Dr Shyam Mohan Dubey the upvan who has been keeping a watch on 22 dogs nabbed from Khairabad said that only insane dogs attack humans, while they do so only when alone. He also added that those children killed were attacked on the neck and the spinal cord region.
 
 “Dogs never attack a person above thighs or hip and have a fixed territory. The area of attacks has spread over an area of above 50 km which cannot be covered one pack of dogs. Also, the photos of those attacked show a larger chunk of flesh being eaten away which cannot be done by the dogs,” Dr Dubey.
 
 Meanwhile, animals rights activist   claimed that hyenas were behind attacks. “Soon after the first attack had taken place in November, we had dispatched a team to Sitapur to look into the killings. The team had clearly suggested that it was done by a wild carnivore creature, probably hyena. Eye-witnesses said the creature had a bushy tail and black-spots, also a bigger snout,” said Pandey. “The then DM Sitapur was also apprised about the same. But the administration turned a blind eye and now when the killing of children again started they began hunting dogs,”she said.
 
