LUCKNOW: Students and staff of   For The Hearing Impaired in   were panic-stricken on Saturday when a   and hid itself in the basement of the assembly hall. The animal was rescued after a five-hour operation by a team from the zoo. After a medical check-up, it will be released in the forest.

 Afaq Ansari, a businessman who lives near the school and saw the animal first, said, “Around 3.30am, I woke up to receive a tractor. As my friend Shubham and I walked towards the school, we saw the   trying to jump into the premises. It succeeded in its second attempt.” The school was closed for winter vacation but 60 students were present in its two hostels. Afaq and Shubham ran towards the school to inform the staff and knocked on the gate but no one heard them. They then got some locals to help them in waking up the staff. The group rattled the gate but no one responded. By 9am, word had spread and people from nearby villages gathered around the school.
 
 Around 9.30am, school in charge Sister   saw the leopard running around. When she shouted to alert the staff, the leopard ran towards the assembly hall’s basement and hid inside.
  
  
 The staff, of six sisters, immediately closed all doors of the verandah and classrooms. Sister Josiah contacted police and inspected CCTV footage.
 
 According to school staff, police arrived around 11am. Officers of the forest department and Dr Utkarsh Shukla from the zoo were also roped in. Around 1.30pm, Dr Shukla’s team arrived with tranquillisers. The team installed a cage at the entry to the basement and struggled for three hours but failed to get the leopard. Then the team drilled a hole in the assembly hall floor to get a better view of the basement. After another two hours, the team sedated the big cat. Around 6.30pm, the sedated animal was removed from the basement with a net.
 
 Dr Shukla said, “I had to use two shots of tranquiliser; this shows the animal is young and healthy. It is a male of around six years of age. It could have come from near Kakori because that area is full of overgrown trees. The animal has injuries on its paws. It must have come in search of food.”
 
 Sister Josiah said, “Initially, we didn’t tell the children about the leopard but they found out later because of the crowd and the zoo team. However, they stayed inside the school. We were relieved to learn the animal had been taken away.
 
 In 2012, a tiger had strayed into   in the outskirts of the city. It was on the prowl for three months before being caught by a team of forest department.
 
 
