Actress  , who has completed a decade-long journey in the Hindi film industry, said she chooses good work over fame and stardom. The daughter of actor-producer   ventured into the world of filmmaking in 2005 as an assistant director for  's movie 'Black'.

  
  
 She made her acting debut two years later in 'Saawariya'. Ever since her debut she has featured in over a dozen films comprising commercially successful ones like 'Khoobsurat',   and 'Prem Ratan Dhan Payo'.
 
 Asked if she feels that stardom comes with a price tag, Sonam told, "I have never gone for fame or stardom. I have always gone for good work. So when you are not seeking something out, there is no price tag attached to it. It just comes naturally."
 
 Sonam has featured in films of a variety of genres like romance, comedy, drama, biographical thriller and biographical comedy-drama among many others. But she said it was never a conscious choice to do genres of films as different as chalk and cheese.
 
 "I don't think about this is a masala film or this is a 'this' film.... I think it is just the kind of film that I want to do...the character I really enjoy doing and working in," said Sonam, who received the National Film Award - Special Mention for 'Neerja' in 2016.
 
 After 'Neerja', which got her universal acclaim, does she feel pressurised in selecting films?
 
 "I don't take any kind of pressure. It's just a matter of what makes me feel passionate about. It could be anything," said the 32-year-old actress.
 
 She had a terrific start in 2018 with 'Padman', which was very well received at the box office. She will next be seen in her upcoming home production 'Veere Di Wedding', which also features  ,   and  .
 
 On why she did not take the title role, Sonam said, "I don't believe that I need to play the central character. It's the character I wanted to play the most and I had the choice and I chose  . It worked out really well.... If I had chosen to play the central character, I don't think any other mainstream actress would have done the film."
 
 Sonam's character is a lawyer, who is not getting married. She is a girl who comes from a simple middle class family of a single mother. The 'Aisha' actress has a busy year ahead and will be seen in films like 'Sanju', a biopic of actor Sanjay Dutt,   and a film adaptation of Anuja Chauhan's book 'The Zoya Factor'.
 
 Talking about her upcoming slate of work, Sonam said, "So, where Raju (filmmaker  ) Sir's films are concerned, we signed an NDA and we cannot really talk about it unless they give a go ahead."
 
 "So, unfortunately I cannot speak about it. I am really excited about the slate of films that are happening."
  
  
 
