COIMBATORE:   has been the epicentre of several controversies in the last one year alone during the tenure of vice-chancellor A  .

 In July last year, Association of Self-financing Arts, Science and Management Colleges of Tamil Nadu submitted a writ petition in the Madras high court against the functioning of the Bharathiar University’s unauthorised distance education centres outside the state. The HC had ordered the university to shut down those franchisees outside the state, and the university had agreed to it.
 
 But, despite the court directive, the university’s franchisees continued to function, leading the association to hold a protest on July last year against vice-chancellor A Ganapathi. Following this, Ganapathi had assured to shut the centres in 15 days. He had then told TOI, “We cannot close down the centres immediately as we had finished making admissions. We have promised the court that we will close down the centre from the next academic year (2018-19).”
 
 On August 31, the Indian consulate in the   issued a warning to parents against admitting their children to the university’s distance educations centre at Sharjah, following which parents withdrew their children’s admissions. Six distance education centres had been functioning in the UAE. Ganapathi had then said he had ordered the closure of the centres and the university would not be responsible for awarding degrees to the students.
 
 On November last year, the Vadavalli police registered an FIR against Ganapathi under the Schedule Castes and the Schedule Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act 2015, for allegedly discriminating against a dalit woman,who had applied for the post of an assistant professor in the department of biotechnology. The woman, N  , had alleged that though she was eligible for the post, the university had scuttled her chances.
 
 Prabha said her father-in-law’s agricultural land was acquired by the university in 1986 and it had promised her family a job in the university. 
 
 However, she was not given an opportunity and the university appointed another candidate for the post, she said.
 
 On November 23 last year, students of the university, through a petition had alleged that faculty of the university had been using the university buses for their personal use. Ganapathi had confirmed to TOI that one such issue had come to his notice and he would initiate an inquiry into the issue.
 
 
