VISAKHAPATNAM: The biggest and busiest   in the state — the   — still has no   in its premises. 

 The authorities concerned have floated tenders for the setting up of a pharmacy in the airport, but surprisingly, there have been no takers so far. Since August 2017 till date, tenders have been floated thrice and had to be cancelled each time as not even a single bidder came up.
 
 According to sources, the first   was published in the e-government portal in August last year and after finding no takers within the deadline, the authorities extended the deadline, only to meet with the same response. A fresh tender was floated in October 2017, and again there was no response.
 
 In an effort to attract bidders, a third tender was issued with some changes. Keeping in view the requirement of a medicine store in the airport, the reserve licence fee was also reduced. The tender was again published in the e-government portal in December 2017. Since there were no bidders within the stipulated time, the dates were extended but the end result was the same and the tender had to be cancelled for the third time in five months.
 
 Speaking to TOI, airport director   said, “The airport has been witnessing a steady growth of passengers over the last two-three years. A pharmacy has become a necessary requirement, both for visitors and passengers. Although we have been trying to set up a pharmacy in the concorde area for visitors, there has been no response so far from prospective bidders.”
 
 He, however, added that a fresh tender, for the fourth time, will be floated soon. “We will be holding discussions with pharmacists and other agencies for establishment of the facility. The loopholes will be discussed with the representatives following which a fresh tender will be issued,” Reddy said.
 
 Sivasagar Rao, president of Andhra Pradesh Air Travellers Association (APATA), said they have also submitted a representation to the airport authorities for setting up of a medical store at the airport.
 
 
