MUMBAI: After the Chief Information Commissioner’s post lay vacant for a year, chief minister   recently appointed veteran bureaucrat Sumit Mullick as the new  , but there are fears that he too may not be available for disposal of more than 5,000 pending appeals following his appointment on a judicial commission set up to probe the Bhima-Koregaon violence.

 
 Fadnavis had on February 9 set up a judicial commission under the Commission of Inquiry Act to probe the violence on January 1. While former Chief Justice JN Patel will preside over it, Mullick will be a member.   activists have taken objection to the appointment of Mullick, saying he should quit the CIC assignment and take the job under the Commission of Inquiry Act.
 
 Ex-Central Information Commissioner   called Mullick’s appointment untenable, unethical, bad in law and bad for the government. “I am shocked. There will be clear conflict of interest, since in the future questions on the Bhima-Koregaon probe may be raised before him in his capacity as CIC. In my opinion, in the larger public interest Mullick should give up one of the two posts,” Gandhi said.
 
 Pune-based RTI activist   said the appointment of Mullick as member of the judicial commission was illegal. “Under provisions of law, a CIC cannot take up any other assignment as it’s a quasi-judicial assignment. If he continues as a member of the judicial commission, it will be a mockery of the landmark RTI Act,” Kumbhar said.
 
 Kumbhar said at a juncture when more than 36,000 appeals are pending across the state and 5,288 before the CIC, it was wrong on the part of Mullick to take up another assignment. “My information is that Mullick’s new assignment will be a full-time job, so he may not be able to devote time as CIC,” Kumbhar said.
 
 Mullick defended himself, saying he will ensure there is no injustice done to his role as CIC. “I will do justice to both assignments. I will sit for more hours and ensure that pending appeals under the RTI Act are disposed of in a time-bound mannter,” Mullick said.
 
 Justice Patel too defended his appointment, saying the commission’s work schedule has been drafted in such a way that CIC’s routine work will not be affected. “We will sit on Saturdays, Sundays and on public holidays. We will complete the probe in a time-bound manner,” Justice Patel said.
 
