In 2009, connoisseurs of   were heartbroken on reading reports that  , an acclaimed singer of the Gwalior gharana and son of illustrious  , was found begging at a temple in Bhopal and had to be rescued. Reams were written about his stormy past — spars on stage, loss of dear ones, battle with alcoholism…

 But it was a warm, wise smile with which the musician greeted us — a smile that showed he was ready to chart a new course — a day before he performed at Kalakshetra on April 15. A musician who can deftly steer his notes among the styles of the Gwalior, Jaipur and Agra gharanas, Shivputra learned Dhrupad-Dhamar from Pandit K G Ginde, and Carnatic music from M D Ramanathan. The concert at Kalakshetra which paid tributes to M D Ramanathan and K N S Nambiyaar, was the third of six concerts of ‘Gandharvagaana’ — his south India tour to raise funds for setting up a gurukul in Mumbai. Excerpts from an interview with Samhati Mohapatra 
 
 Did you develop a new perspective towards Carnatic music after learning it?
 
 I always had a deep reverence for Carnatic music and I returned with the same respect although my training under the tutelage of M D Ramanathan in 1977 was a brief period of six months. Even though the audience here is more attuned to the compositions, lyrics and laya (rhythm), I fell in love with the tunes. The tradition has a few ragas similar to Hindustani music like Arabhi (Durga) and Hanumathodi (Bhairavi), but the rendition is so much different. The tradition has also unique ragas like Varali which Hindustani music doesn’t.
 
 I haven’t consciously tried incorporating these aspects in my singing, but who knows if they are at play somewhere beneath (laughs).
 
 Where does Carnatic music score over Hindustani music and vice-versa?
 
 Such conclusions cannot be drawn. When someone learns music to understand it, he or she is just gathering information. The real challenge is in pursuing it with passion, dedicating your life towards it and going to the depth of the genre. A student who crosses these hurdles emerges out as a musician, which is a rare breed. The complication doesn’t lie in the musical form; it lies in imbibing it.
 
 Who would you pick for a Hindustani-Carnatic jugalbandi?
 
 I don’t believe in jugalbandis. The beauty of classicism is best captured in solo performances, not in  , choirs and orchestra. That’s because classical music is mostly about melody, which is diluted when rendered with another musical form. Jugalbandi may work when the singers are twins or siblings, because their styles more or less would be the same, like for instance the Dagar brothers. But it should end there.
 
 Does Hindustani music need promotion here?
 
 Of course. But it cannot be achieved with concerts alone. We have to produce more students and researchers trained in the guru-shishya parampara. Educational institutions should give equal emphasis to the promotion of Hindustani music to help students develop an interest towards it. But it finally rests on the student on how he/she would take it forward. When I was here in Chennai in 1977, one of my classmates was Arabic by birth, was brought up in France and lived in the US. But he still had come to India to learn about an alien music form. Why? Because he didn’t see boundaries and his mission was driven by passion towards music. We need that passion here.
 
 Do you believe in traditions and gharanas (schools of music)? It is said that your father didn’t …
 
 I have nothing else to believe, but in tradition. It’s not that my father didn’t believe in gharanas, he didn’t believe in just learning one. Even in his final days, he learned the singing style of the Jaipur gharana and gave performances in it. I am trying to do the same, by gathering inspiration from several forms, be it folk and Carnatic music or Vedic shlokas. Eventually, you end up creating a new style. 
 
 What was the biggest lesson your father taught you?
 
 To be truthful, in all dimensions, at any cost. He was deeply hurt whenever someone failed him. I try to be truthful, spiritual and keep my father’s words.
 
 You are often dubbed a "man without an address" or been quoted as saying that "music is your home"…
 
 No man can be without a shelter. Have you seen a musician standing in the sun, playing his sitar, violin and tanpura? But, yes it is also true that when the heart breaks, no house is enough to provide you shelter. Now, with music by my side, I want to teach more and do fewer concerts. I aspire to fulfill that dream through my gurukul.
 
 Does coming back to Chennai evoke any memories?
 
 I am coming here after 15 years. The city has changed; there are more roads and flyovers. One thing I won’t forget about my past visit is how much I longed for rotis made of wheat. Once, my quest for rotis grew so intense that I walked from Mandaveli to Mount Road with a map in my hand to locate a north Indian restaurant — only to be disappointed with rotis made of refined flour. But things look brighter today.
 
 
