PUNE: The   (SIT) probing the   will examine the role of officials of six banks, most of them nationalized, for allegedly ignoring the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines and advancing or restructuring loans to the DSK group even after existing dues were rendered as non-performing assets.

 A supplementary chargesheet in the case is expected to throw light on this aspect, special public prosecutor Pravin Chavan said at a media briefing called by deputy commissioner of police (economic offences) Sudhir Hiremath.
 
 Hiremath said, “Of the Rs711.36 crore worth loans raised through banks and financial institutions, Rs477.76 crore was raised for DSK group’s Dream City project and barely Rs150 crore of this has been spent on it. The remaining money was siphoned off to other sources.”
 
 Referring to the state government’s recent notification for attachment of DSK’s properties, Chavan said, “Post-notification, the competent authority under the MPID Act will move the special court for a notice of attachment and the process of auctioning these properties will be held thereafter. The depositors and suppliers will come much later in terms of clearance of dues as government debt, secured creditors and employees of DSK will take a precedence.”
 
 Chavan said, “Banks are required to take utmost precaution while lending money to business houses as the money belongs to public. The RBI has issued guidelines and notifications from time to time, asking banks to follow specific norms, particularly while dealing with borrowers with accumulated NPAs. In this case, the officials who lent money to DSK’s firms appeared to have ignored these norms and kept giving money to DSK and his firms. It is a matter of common sense that loan is not granted to a borrower who has a high amount of NPA. Why the banks kept giving money despite obvious signs of financial distress?”
 
 Investigators are probing 269 bank accounts held by DSK and others named in the chargesheet.
 
 Chavan said, “Some of these bank account details showed that the money borrowed for developing business was diverted to purchase costly saris, footwear, milk and other household necessities. This aspect is also being probed,” he said. 
 
 
