GURUGRAM: A 25-year-old automobile   bought a piece of land from   through e-auction on May 27 last year and subsequently received its nod to mortgage the plot for availing bank loan, got the possession certificate as well as   deed, all within four months. Finally, he got the approval for his building plan on September 25, only to be told a week later that he could not start construction on the plot.

 
 
  
 
 For, Huda, after allotting the plot and eventually completing all other formalities, realised that the 55sq-yard plot in Sector 23A it had allotted to   Verma, the automobile engineer, was owned by an individual and did not belong to the development authority.
 
 Now, for the past four months, Verma, who had paid Huda Rs 28 lakh for the said land, has been making rounds of its office and coughing up Rs 31,000 per month as EMI for the loan he had availed against the plot. However, Huda is yet to allot an alternative plot or give any deadline to fix the goof-up it has committed.
 
 “Instead of taking a plot from a private developer, I had opted for Huda’s e-auction hoping that everything will be fine,” said Tarun, who currently lives in Old Gurugram. “Everything was done… Huda had given me the allotment letter, offer of possession, letter of mortgage, possession certificate, conveyance deed and even permission for a water connection. The construction was to begin in a few days, when they asked me to not start the work, on October 2,” he recalled.
 
 He said he had taken Rs 40 lakh loan for paying for the land as well as building his dream home. “No one is giving me a satisfactory reply. Even mails to senior officials have failed to resolve my problem,” said Tarun, who claimed to be the lone earning member of the family with three sisters and an ailing father.
 
 “How can Huda auction a plot which doesn’t belong to it? Had it been done by a private developer, the government would have booked him on charges of cheating,” said Tarun.
 
 Interestingly, according to the rules, if Huda fails to give possession of a plot within 30 days from the date of its allotment, the authority will have to pay an interest of 5.5% per month. “But I am paying an interest of more than 8% on my loan amount. I am paying the price for a mistake committed by Huda,” said Taurn.
 
 Huda estate officer 1 Sanjeev Singhla admitted that it was mistake on part of Huda and said they were trying to resolve the problem. “Due to a mistake by a junior engineer, the plot was listed for e-auction. We have sought an explanation from the official concerned.” He said Verma would get an alternative plot and that Huda had already forwarded his file to its head office for the approval.
 
 About the compensation, Singhla said he could submit a formal application in this regard. “We will forward it to the chief administrator who has power to approve it.”
 
 
