In a desperate attempt to be heard by the government of Maharashtra, around 50,000 farmers from across the state walked into Mumbai yesterday. The demands of the farmers, who gathered at  , include an unconditional waiver of loans as well as electricity bills, implementation of the Swaminathan Commission recommendations, along with an announcement of minimum support price for agriculture produce and a pension scheme for farmers. 

  
 
 
  People from all age groups have been a part of the protest. Eighty-year-old farmer Vishram Yeshwant Lilake from Dindori (Nashik) has come with the sole hope that his ancestral property, which has been a source of income for his family, will be transferred to his name. “Our main demand is that we want the land in our names and we will not move from here till it happens,” says a visibly weak Lilake adding, “We all have come walking from very far. Many of us have hurt our feet in the process, while some also fell ill on the way, but we will not give up.”
 
 
  
 
  Echoing his thoughts is Murabai Bhimrao Bhavar from Gopegaon. Her land, too, is not her property on paper. “We want our land to be in our names, we want houses and ration cards. We will continue the agitation till our demands are met,” she says.
 
  The march, which started a few days ago, has seen participation from even youngsters. Sixteen-year-old Mahesh Ramdas Kharpare from Shahpur says that education and water are on top of his priority list. “I have been walking for five days for a reason. We, too, have a right to educate ourselves and for that, we need schools. We also want our other basic needs met like water, light and proper roads. There is no water to tend to the farms as rivers and wells have gone dry.”
 
  Balancing a solar panel on his head, Nathu Nivaruthi Udar shares his story. He is neck-deep in debt and the bank he had taken a loan from isn’t showing any leniency. “I have a loan of Rs 3 lakhs and want it to be waived off. Our main demand is that farmers’ loans should be waived off.If our demands are not met, I have decided not to move from here!” About the solar panel, he says, “I tried solar charging and it has turned out to be useful for me. I can now charge my mobile even during a power cut.”
 
 
  
 
  Balasaheb Shantaram Naikode from Pune, who had come to support the march, says, “The final product that comes out of our agricultural fields does not get the market price it deserves. 
  work hard the whole year, but get nothing in return. As far as waiving off of loans is concerned, the farmers have been told that the banks will waive off debt up to Rs 1.5 lakhs. But how will farmers who have taken loans worth Rs 2-3 lakhs repay the remaining amount? The deadline to repay loans without any interest is till July 30, but when the farmers go to the banks, they are asked to show guarantee. Where will these farmers show guarantee from? I am here to fight for their rights.”
 
  
 
 
  The farmers are garnering support from people from different walks of life. Mumbaikars, including celebs, have tweeted in their support. Says Radhika Nair, a bank official, “They are protesting quietly without causing any disruption. Their issues are genuine and it is time the authorities come up with a viable solution.” Various organisations too distributed water bottles and a medical van was stationed at Azad Maidan. Says Qari Mohammad Ayyub, whose NGO was distributing free water to the farmers and their families, “We want to extend help to our farmer brothers. They have been subjected to injustice for ages and that has pushed many of them to commit suicide.” The farmers, who have unique stories to share, maintain that this time they will not go back home empty-handed.
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  Vijay Kadam, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Azad Maidan, told BT, “It is a mammoth task, but it is also our duty. We have been on duty for the last 48 hours and till the demands are met, I don’t think things will get back to normal. However, they have maintained decorum and not upset daily life for people. Traffic, too, has been running smoothly.” 
 
  Praveen Dixit, retired Director General of Police, said, “The farmers marched overnight into Mumbai to avoid obstruction of traffic during the day. Also, they have been highly disciplined and haven’t created any chaos or disturbance for residents. This speaks volumes for the thousands of farmers who are here right now in Mumbai. They are patiently waiting for the authorities to hear them out and agree to their demands. The police force is on duty and they will be doing their best to keep things under control.”
 
 
 
 
