GURUGRAM: Thirty-three men, including a Ghana citizen, were arrested as police said they had busted 10 fake   in the city. 

 The call centres have allegedly cheated numerous “customers” from America,   and the UK, among others.
 
 Police also seized over 100 laptops and computers, two dozen mobile phones and other electronic devices during the raids through Monday night at these centres running illegally for months in Sector 17/18.
 
 Though police are still interrogating those arrested to find out their modus operandi, preliminary probe suggests that these employees would call customers and offer them cheap loans. Sometimes, they used to tell gullible customers that they had won huge sums in lottery, which many people found hard to ignore. Once a customer fell into the trap, he would be asked to transfer a ‘nominal’ amount via mobile wallets to get the prize money or loan.
 
 Sources said the police got a whiff of the racket in December last year and put the centres and their employees on the radar. After month-long preparation and surveillance, 10 teams, led by   (crime)  , raided the centres simultaneously.
 
 “One of the arrested accused is a national of Ghana. He could not produce his passport or visa. We doubt that some more foreigners are also involved in this racket,” said ACP Singh. He said there were more than 300 employees working for these fake call centres and raids were on to arrest others. Seven FIRs have been filed at Sector 18 police station in this regard.
 
 Another senior cop said the employees used to call with fake names and cheat people, especially foreigners, with mind-boggling offers in the name of providing revenue services and technology export services. “None of the call centres had licence from the departments concerned,” he added. The employees used to get salaries of Rs 20,000-Rs 25,000 in cash.
 
 “Most of their clients were from countries like America, UK and Australia. But it is not clear yet how these people got details of the foreign customers. Probe is on to identify the main operators and find out when they started these fake call centres in the city. We are also trying to find out how many people were duped or how much money was extracted from them. We are on the job and many more people will be arrested soon,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon. 
 
 
