GAYA: The proposed bifurcation of   and creation of   to be headquartered at Patna has gathered momentum following the constitution of a seven- member committee to frame the modalities for distribution of financial assets, liabilities and manpower.

 The process for appointment of a vice-chancellor (VC) and pro-VC of the proposed university is already underway as the new varsity is likely to be in place before the commencement of the academic session 2018-19.
 
 MU registrar   on Friday issued a notification for the constitution of the committee comprising financial adviser, dean (students’ welfare), inspector of colleges (science), head of Botany department Nalin Kumar Shastri, Professor Shamsul Islam and section officer (Budget) Navlesh Kumar Sinha. Shailesh will be the member-secretary of the committee, which has been asked to submit its report within a fortnight.
 
 As per the terms of reference of the committee, it is mandated to identify the issues involved in the bifurcation process. The committee is also tasked to assess the assets and liabilities of the truncated university and prepare a blueprint for future growth of the institution of higher learning.
 
 It has also to formulate the procedures to be followed in transfer of human as well as financial resources to the proposed university. The committee has been given the liberty to go beyond its term of reference and make out-of-the-box recommendations in the varsity’s larger interest.
 
 In the light of the bifurcation exercise, the university's larger part is going to be severed from the parent varsity and attached to the newly created university. 
 
 As of now, the 44 constituent and four government-funded minority institutions of MU are spread over seven districts, including five districts in   division and two in Patna division.
 
 Sources said at least 25 of the 44 constituent colleges and three of the four government-funded minority colleges would be attached with Pataliputra University. Nearly three lakh of the five lakh students enrolled in different courses in MU will be transferred to the new varsity, the sources said and added nearly 60% of the more than 500 MU HQ employees would be transferred to the new university.
 
 
