KOCHI: The average number of cases reported under the Narcotic   and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) in the city has increased by as much as 174% in the past four years. 

 According to the district crime records bureau, the monthly average number of NDPS cases reported in 2015 was 54 while the average in 2017 became 139 and continuing the trend in the first two months of 2018, as many as 50 cases on an average were recorded by the city police.
 
 In 2015, the total numbers of cases recorded were 654 while the number of cases recorded in January and February of 2018 was 301. A total of 1,164 and 1,673 case were reported in 2016 and 2017, respectively.
 
 Officials said that they have been keeping regular watch ahead of the vacations to curb sale of ganja among the youth.
 
 "On Thursday we caught two engineering students with over 2kg of ganja. Though they had claimed that it was for personal consumption, it was found that they intended on selling it among their friends. As the summer vacations have begun more students are likely to purchase and peddlers are trying to make use of this opportunity," said S Dwijesh, Ernakulam South sub-inspector.
 
 Shadow police officials said that another trend that they have been observing recently is sale of the contraband among tour guides by peddlers.
 
 "We have arrested a few peddlers, who had connections with tour guides, hotels and homestays. Details of such homestays supplying ganja to tourists are being collected and they will soon be nabbed," said an officer with the shadow police.
 
 Sources with   said that the statistics include all kind of NDPS cases, including possession and consumption of the contraband along with its peddling.
 
 "In most cases, the drugs involved are ganja and hashish. Drugs like cocaine and   also are being abused in the city. Amphetamine seizures were also reported recently," said an official. Meanwhile, excise special squad circle inspector T S   said that it is hard to stop the flow of the contraband into the city as the restrictions for the same in other states are not as strong.
 
 "We have ensured that there is no more mass cultivation of cannabis in the state. Cultivation can be properly monitored through satellite imaging as the patches would be visible when forests are cleared for the cultivation. The contraband is flowing into the state from other states and even if carriers are nabbed these rackets somehow find new ones," said the excise officer.
 
 "What we have done recently is to make a network of police officers assigned only for hunting down drug peddlers in the city. Such officers are there in every police station and they work in tandem with the shadow police for better results," said North circle inspector K J Martin.
 
 
