LUCKNOW:   taking   from the blood bank in   will now have to pay Rs 200 more, over the current Rs 400 per unit. The price hike has been effected because the department of transfusion medicine has been facing problems since the cost for conducting one test - the Nucleic Acid Test ( ) - a molecular technique for screening blood donations to reduce the risk of transfusion transmitted infections in recipients, costs around Rs 1,000. 

 Though the cost of NAC test per one unit of blood is around Rs 1,000, KGMU will only charge Rs 600 for a unit. KGMU would also not hike the rates for certain categories of patients. The department of transfusion medicine has sent a proposal of Rs 19 crores to the   (NHM) for pre-transfusion testing, but it has yet to get a written approval for the same. 
 
 "NHM has, in principle, accepted the proposal but there is no confirmation on how much money will be provided to us and when. Around 50% of our blood units are given for free to critical patients and it is only the remaining 50% that we can charge to make up for budgetary requirements," said head of the department, Prof Tulika Chandra. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Even in these 50% cases, a number of patient categories would still be charged the old price of Rs 400 per unit. These categories include patients of diseases like cancer, thalassemia, HIV, the destitute, BPL and critical patients.
 
 
 “We have tried to keep the hike minimal. Even after the hike, the cost borne by KGMU for NAC testing on one unit is still more,” she added.
 
 
 On an average, the blood bank at KGMU gives 200 units of blood per day to patients for transfusion.
 
 
 Titan screen method in 2 months: In another two months, KGMU will start the Titan screen method of blood testing to eliminate presence of harmful antibodies in mutli-transfusion and elective surgery patients. “SGPGI is theonly medical facility in the state that currently does testing by this method, though it is done on manual mode. KGMU would be the first to do automated Titan screening of blood,” said Prof Chandra.
 
 
 
