KOCHI: 'Wealth out of Waste' seems to be the motto of all those associated with   collection, transportation and treatment. 

 The attitude of waste collecting workers and corporation officials is to generate income for themselves from handling the garbage and the latest example is repair charges of 10 refuse compactor trucks and the diesel bills for vehicles transporting garbage, most of which have been in the workshop for the past several months.
 
 The routine annual repair charges of these 10 trucks prior to annual fitness test is a whopping Rs 16 lakh. The routine annual repair charges for 23 mini-trucks (Ape) come to Rs 8.65 lakh.
 
 For repairing two tipper trucks, the local body spent Rs 2 lakh. "Mismanagement and corruption have been causing the corporation huge loss. Most of the vehicles used for waste transportation have been under repair or in abandoned conditions for the past few years. We have been raising the issue in the council on a regular basis, the corporation didn't heed to our call though," said  , secretary,   party, Kochi corporation.
 
 As per the corporation records, the diesel bills for vehicles transporting waste from west Kochi side alone for eight months come to Rs 56 lakh. Interestingly, most vehicles are under repair for the past several months as per records. "As the corporation authorities repeatedly failed to give reply to our questions regarding the whereabouts of those vehicle, we conducted a drive to locate the vehicles. According to the officials with the corporation, only one refuse compactor truck, 8 trucks and 8 mini-trucks had been operating in west Kochi area. The corporation authorities should explain why such a huge amount had to be paid as fuel bills for these vehicles. A probe should be ordered in to the issue to unravel the corruption involved in the deal," he said. "As per the corporation records, the diesel bills for these vehicles would be Rs 20,000 a day. Given the fact that an ordinary tipper truck would conduct only one trip to Brahmapuram from west Kochi, the diesel bill of Rs 20,000 a day is high," he said.
 
 At the same time, corporation has been spending up to Rs 60 lakh a month for hiring private trucks for transporting garbage. "Given the maintenance charges, labour charges and fuel price required for maintaining corporation's own trucks, it is profitable for corporation to hire private trucks. The private truck owners are supplying old trucks and they won't provide us adequate number of trucks. That's why we are forced to operate our own trucks," said  , chairperson, heath standing committee, Kochi corporation. She said there is no discrepancies in the fuel bills of the corporation vehicles. "We maintain registers of the fuel bills. Anybody can check it," she said.
 
 
