Nagpur: Finally, the Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) on Wednesday gave a nod to Mahametro for the corridor and station works being carried out at Ambazari Lake embankment. Mahametro began works 12 months ago at the 145-year-old earthen embankment without permission from the committee and other departments. Following a complaint by MLC Prakash Gajbhiye, HCC’s two members, architect Ashok Mokha and structural engineer PS Patankar, visited the site and inspected the ongoing works. The members also inspected works along the 500 metre stretch of embankment toe. Mokha told TOI that the committee has found no violations by Mahametro. In fact, they had taken all safety measures and precautions suggested by Nashik-based Dam Safety Organisation. (DSO) There should be no issue if construction is being done as per expert recommendations, he said. A Mahametro senior official said all recommendations suggested by DSO are being followed. While allotting 408.459 sq m space at Kasturchand Park to Mahametro, the condition of proper care and repair of the ground was put forth. However, Mahametro has expressed its inability to maintain Kasturchand Park, and instead suggested that it would help NMC to maintain it. The proposal of Mahametro paying remuneration to NMC for this work has been approved by the HCC. Along with this, the committee has asked Mahametro to install a 5 meter long and 6 meter wide projection screen at the metro station to be built alongside KP Ground, which will aid in spreading awareness about the heritage site. A total of nine subjects were discussed in the HCC meeting attended by former Neeri director Tapan Chakraborty, Shubha Johari, Supriya Thool, assistant director of town planning (NMC) Pramod Gawande, NIT superintending engineer Sunil Gujjalwar, and architect Ashok Mokha. The committee gave a nod to a marathon to be organized from Kasturchand Park on August 20 to mark Samwidhan Diwas. Conditional permission was also granted to hold the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Jayanti programme at the venue. (With inputs from Tanuja Ratnaparkhi)