LUCKNOW: A woman from   tried to immolate self near the chief minister’s house in high-security zone on Sunday alleging that police were not acting on her complaint against local BJP  , who, she said, raped her last year. The security personnel present there got hold of the woman before she could light the fire after pouring kerosene oil on her body and handed her over to the local Gautam Palli police.

 The woman alleged that BJP MLA from   in Unnao, Kuldeep Singh Sengar, and his aides had raped her in May 2017, but police took no action on her complaint. The MLA on the hand tol d media persons on Sunday that some rivals were at work to tarnish his image and he had also appealed to the police for a thorough probe. “She was trying to implicate some local youths and I supported them,” he said.
 
 The woman said that after Bangarmau police didn’t pay heed to her complaint, she moved court under Section 156 (3) of CrPC. Meanwhile, upset with the continuous efforts of the woman’s family to target the MLA, Sengar’s supporters allegedly barged into her house on April 2 and bashed up his father and brother. After this, an FIR against MLA’s younger brother Atul and others was registered for violence. Sengar, too, was named as a conspirator.
 
 On Sunday morning, the woman, in early 20s, along with three women family members reached Lucknow and went straight to the CM residence on Kalidas Marg. Before security men stationed there could react the woman poured kerosene oil on her body. However, policemen overpowered ger and handed her over to Gautam Palli police station.
 
 ADG, Lucknow zone, Rajeev Krishna, said that the woman was escorted to her village and instructions had been passed on to Unnao SP to ensure her safety. He said that the FIR registered after April 2 incident would be probed by the crime branch of Lucknow police since the woman’s family claimed that Unnao police could be influenced by MLA.
 
 “Also the rape charges she has pressed were being examined. A report would be sent to government after probes within a week and woman would be informed about the progress,” said Krishna, adding “though has been found that both the parties are in a dispute for the past 10-12 years.”
 
