PANAJI: Every single day, the   (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, sees three new   patients register for treatment. According to data from Goa’s premier healthcare institute, a total of 190 new cancer patients were recorded visiting various departments for cancer treatment between November 15, 2017, and January 15. 

 Medical superintendent Dr   said that breast, stomach, and   cancers are the most common the hospital sees. More than 40% of all new cases were reported by the department of surgery, that sees a high number of breast and colon cancer cases. 
 
  
  
 
 In the urology department, that accounts for around 20% of the cases, three cancers — kidney, urinary bladder and prostrate — continue to be more prevalent than the others, which include testicular and penile cancer. 
 
 Head of the urology department, Dr Madhumohan Prabhudessai, said that the hospital is seeing an increasing number of both male and female patients between the ages of 20 and 35. “Earlier, we received patients above 40-50 years old. The trend in kidney cancer has now shifted towards the younger population,” he said, adding that it is difficult to attribute this change to one particular factor.
 
 The pick-up rate for prostate cancer patients has increased, he said, with many patients visiting the hospital in the early stages of cancer. “The PSA (prostate-specific antigen) test has helped vigorously detect prostate cancer,” Prabhudessai says.
 
 As a result, the department today receives a fair number of patients diagnosed with early cancer.
 
 One of the factors responsible for the higher number of cancer patients the department receives could be that the detection rate has increased in Goa. “Once detected early (stage 1 or stage 2), cancer patients can expect recurrence-free survival, depending on the type of cancer.
 
 Around 10% of new cancer cases have been recorded by the pediatrics department. Here, leukemia and solid tumours are the most common, with a number of children treated for lymphoma also. Patients from the state as well as those from Sindhudurg district of Maharashtra bring their little ones to GMC. Leukemia patients are often in the age group of 2-10 years. 
 
 Meanwhile, commenting on trends in breast cancer in the state, oncologist Dr Shekhar Salkar says that it is on the ride, thanks to late marriages, fewer mothers breastfeeding their children, and late menopause. While 70% of cancer patients he treated three decades ago were stage-3 and stage-4 cancers, today, a majority of them are stage-1 and stage-2 patients. “Early detection is the key,” he says. “The survival chances are 80% in stage-1 and stage-2 cancers.” 
 
 However, the state hasn’t fared as well when it comes to colon cancer. Salkar attributes this to the high number of red meat eaters in the state. “Our diet is almost like that of an American,” he said. “Vegetables are rarely part of our meals.”
 
 
