NAGPUR: The paediatrics department of   and Hospital (IGGMCH) submitted a proposal to chief minister   a few days ago regarding setting up of an ‘Institute of Child Health’. The CM has agreed to the proposal in-principle.

 The work for the project, however, began in December 2016 when Dr Viral Kamdar, director of Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Institute of Medical Science, Research and Human Resources, and adviser to Union minister  , wrote a letter to Gadkari.
 
 Later, Gadkari wrote a letter to state medical education minister Girish Mahajan and Union health minister   in January 2017. Nadda referred the project to state in February 2017. The detailed proposal was, however, only presented to the state about a fortnight ago.
 
 The proposal says that the present mortality rate in the paediatric ICU (PICU) and neonatal ICU (NICU) ranges from 18-22 % to 21-30 %, respectively. This is very high as compared to the neonatal mortality of 17% in the state. This can largely be linked to the lack of infrastructure including manpower, equipment and space.
 
 Several patients are referred for specialized care including neurosurgery, interventional radiological procedures, paediatric gastroenterology, paediatric surgery, paediatric endocrinology, paediatric orthopaedic treatment, paediatric cardiothoracic surgical management, speech therapy, occupational and physical rehabilitation etc, all of which are not available under a single roof in Central India.
 
 Patients are referred for these facilities in government or private sector in the city and Mumbai.
 
 Hence, there is a need to bring all these super specialities under one roof in the city itself. The institute can serve as a Center of Excellence for paediatric health care and function as a nodal centre for innovative research and training with international standards.
 
 The centre can also run courses in these super specialities. The project also includes a ‘Human Milk Bank’ to promote optimal feeding practices among hospitalized babies.
 
 
