They’re single, getting on in age, but it’s not going to be a lonesome life of Solitaire for this lot. Meet the JOY Club (Just Older Youth) — a small group of strangers on Facebook who are getting to know each other now so that, one day, they can all live together as neighbours.

 The club has about 30 single men and women in their 50s and 60s who intend to move en masse into a retirement community in the near future. It was started six months ago by Nishi Malhotra, 58, a former consultant editor with   in Washington DC. She created a Facebook page with the intention of forming an offline alliance that would collectively prepare for retired life.
 
 
 “I know friends, particularly single women in their 50s and 60s, who are taking care of old parents and starting to think about their own future. What’s going to happen to us after our parents pass away, they wonder,” says Nishi, who lives with her mother in Noida. “I have seen single aunts end up with relatives, and if they were lucky, they were looked after well, or they ended up as babysitters.”
 
 Having decided to one day move into a retirement community herself — for their healthcare and assisted living facilities — Nishi reached out to other singles who have planned to do the same. Why not get together and buy or rent houses in the same retirement complex? They would then move in with the muchneeded emotional support required of such a life-changing relocation. “You start to think a lot about loneliness as you grow older, a concern felt more strongly by single people than couples,” Nishi points out. She makes it clear it’s not a dating group. Every potential member is vetted to know if their objectives and attitude are in sync with the group. “It isn’t about finding like-minded people, but like-hearted people,” she insists. “When you need to go to chemotherapy, you want someone who’ll be willing to accompany you to the hospital; someone who’ll bring you food when you’re ill.”
 
 Before they take the leap, the JOY Club has been getting to know each other better, on Facebook, WhatsApp and at their monthly meetings for dinner or a play. Most of their members happen to be in NCR, but they also have members in Chennai and Baroda. Their discussions weigh retirement housing options across the country, savings, health, the news, the Budget, while becoming acquainted with each other’s interests and personalities. Nishi believes friendships will eventually close around common interests, and subgroups that form may opt to retire together to different communities. “That’s ok too,” she says, “As long as you’re moving in with friends.”
 
  would rather live alongside friends than relatives. “The heartbreak is less if friends don’t step in to help,” reasons the 52-year-old. A few years ago Bharati gave up her job to look after her ailing mother, who counselled her to move to a retirement community when she grew older. “People who have not seen the decline of age up close may not understand the significance of having a support system and the need to start planning ahead early, while they’re able to take decisions,” says Bharati, who is relieved she has a group to move in with.
 
 The JOY Club has already started conducting recces to retirement communities in different cities, weighing them for proximity to urban life, amenities, atmosphere, and budget.
 
 Parimal Gandhi, 64, is keeping an open mind about the proposed move. The HR corporate trainer from Baroda says, “If living with the group doesn’t work out, at the least it will be a real-estate investment.” But he likes what he sees in the group. “There’s a common love for food and having a good time. It’s a civil group,” he says. He hopes to find among them people who share his love for travel, classical music and theatre. “I have friends with similar interests in Baroda, but they are not single. And they can’t always go out when you want to,” he explains.
 
 Parimal, a three-time cancer survivor, says living alone can lead to bouts of depression. “It’s not a pleasant thought, picturing your body lying around undiscovered should some fatality strike,” he says. “That is why I would like to have people around, and be around people I can help. The idea of friends living around each other appealed to me.”
 
 
 
 MAKING THE MOVE: Two of the members of the JOY Club, Bharati Manchanda and Vineeta Arora, on a site visit to a retirement community under construction.
 
