CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh district court acquitted five persons in a case related to rioting and trespassing. The acquitted persons have been identified as Sohan Singh, Mohinder Kaur,  , Jeet Sigh and Jaspal Singh-all residents of  , Chandigarh. 

 Another accused Ganga Singh died during the pendency of the case after which proceedings against him were dropped. All the accused were booked under sections 147(Punishment for rioting),148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (Punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 452 (House-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restrain) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. The court acquitted all of them as the witnesses turned hostile and prosecution failed to prove their case.
 
 The matter dates back to May 26, 2011 when the accused were booked by the police. As per the complaint made by Jiwa Singh, on the aforementioned date around 7am he was returning to his house from   Sahib. There was a dispute regarding unauthorized gate and sewerage connection due to which accused Ganga Singh and his family members attacked him with a sharp weapon on his head. It was only after raising an alarm that Jiwa Singh's son Pavitar Singh and his wife came to his rescue. Meanwhile, Ganga Singh and his family members also attacked the complainant and his family. On hearing the hue and cry of the latter, neighbours gathered at the spot after which the accused fled away before threatening to kill them. 
 
 On the basis of the complaint, an FIR was registered. During investigation, site plan of the place of occurrence was prepared. Statement of accused persons were recorded. Weapons were recovered from the possession of the accused, which was taken into police possession. During the trial many independent witnesses also turned hostile and failed to identify the accused. 
 
 
