Salem: With state and private participation, the country has scope for sustained growth in its academic programmes and to achieve the status of knowledge superpower, said B Chandrasekaran, director of central leather research institute, Chennai.

 “Information technology coupled with such knowledge resources would be areas of future studies in fields like agriculture, transport, alternative fuel, communication, medical and manufacturing sectors. Besides, artificial intelligence, augmented reality, 3D printings are some of the complementary areas that could change the total perception of our lifestyle,” said Chandrasekaran, who was the chief guest at the 17th convocation of Periyar University, Salem, on Tuesday.
 
 Addressing the gathering, he said India has 17% of the world’s population and about 65% of India’s population are less than 35 years and 50% is less than 25 years. “This means not only the future but the present is also in your hands,” he added. 
 
 Lauding the prime minister Narendra Modi’s effort on development, Chandrasekaran said India needs more revolutions in the front. “Make in India and Skill India programmes link vocational and academic courses, which are the need of the hour as they call our attention to nurture industry-institute interactions,” he said.
 
 “Today, agriculture and agro-based industries such as textile, leather and other crafts provide us the largest employment opportunities but they are yet to be fully exploited,” he said. Further he said the textile and leather industries in Tamil Nadu are the model for the country as they focus on Zero effect and Zero Defect (ZED). 
 
 “As the government is providing skills to youngsters via incubation centres, students are sure to find jobs and would provide jobs for others too,” he added.
 
 Earlier, governor Banwarilal Purohit awarded 128 students who secured first rank with gold medals and other 380 students with degree certificates. Also, Doctor of Philosophy was presented to 380 candidates apart from 66,574 certificates to graduates in-absentia. 
 
 Tamil Nadu higher education secretary Sunil Paliwal, vice-chancellor P Kolandaivel, registrar M Manivannan, members of the syndicate, teachers and administrative staff members of the university parents, and students have participated in the function.
 
 
