The competition on   is getting tougher and the contestants are going all out to ensure they put their best foot forward.

 
 The following week is a special one. Grooving to the theme of “Salaam Cinema”, the master dancer duos are all set to enthrall you to a well-choreographed chain of tributes to the who’s who of Kannada Cinema.
 
 
 The master dancer duos will put up performances of hit on screen pairs like Dr. Rajkumar and Manjula, Dr.Vishnuvardhan and Dwarakesh, Anant Nag and Lakshmi, Kokila Mohan and Hema Chowdary. A tribute to the legendary actors Ambareesh, Srinath, Lokesh, Ravichandran is also on the cards. One of the more popular duos from Davengere, Rahul and Naveen are paying a tribute to the one and only, Shankar Nag.
 
 
 Nostalgia all the way, the contestants have curated interesting throwbacks including a tribute to the comedians in the era and more recent stars like Puneeth Rajkumar and his brother Shivrajkumar’s chemistry with Sudharani. An aesthetic touch with costumes and some mind-blowing performances are all in store. 
 
 
 The TV show, which has been a hit ever since it premiered, is now inching closer to the finale. With every passing week, the masters as well as the dancers are trying new styles and genres to keep the audience thoroughly entertained. 
 
 If you thought it is only about the theme...then hold on. It is going to be a double whammy as contestants will be rewarded for their performances. Vijay was given the best master medal of the week for his act with his partner. 
 
  
  
 
 That is not all. Going by the performances of the contestants as well, little master dancer Durgesh was given the best dancer medal, too, for his contemporary act. 
 
 Judge   went on to add that the dance was one of the most stylish performances on the show so far.
 
 Shruthi Hariharan, too, commented on the act and was all praises for the little boy.
 
  
  
 Well, going by the performances there is no doubt that the dance level will only get better and tougher in the coming weeks. 
 
 A walk down memory lane, the theme of retro will be celebrated on all three days – March 26th-28th.
 
 
 
 
 
