KHARAGPUR: For a little over a year, architects from   Kharagpur have been walking the lanes and bylanes of Varanasi’s oldest parts in search of hidden treasure. They have now found the footprints of the Ganga as it flowed by the town thousands of years ago. And therein lies a secret that can transform Varanasi into a smart city with native wisdom.

 
 Prime Minister   is keeping tabs on the progress report and the team is routinely sending the   draft searches.
 
 IIT-Kgp’s quest partners are University of Columbia, IIT-Banaras Hindu University and  . The idea is to retrace the Ganga’s old route and assess if portions of this can be revived to bring back a river eco-system around which ancient Varanasi thrived. The team has found the channels that fed the city are not only alive in the layers underneath but can be activated in portions to solve water scarcity and drainage/sewerage issues that dog the congested city.
 
 The project is a part of ‘Sandhi’, a science-culture initiative in the IITs being promoted by the HRD and culture ministries. It is being anchored by IIT-Kgp and includes a wide spectrum of departments. For the Varanasi water urbanism project, for example, the architecture and civil engineering departments have teamed up.
 
 “You can trace Varanasi’s history from Vedic times, when it was one of the 16 Mahajanapadas, to the time of the Jain Tirthankaras and later to the time of the Buddha, when he records it as a bustling metropolis. Throughout this long phase, Varanasi is seen as a water-fed economy, where all entry and exit points, for business or travel, depended on the Ganga. We took that as the starting reference point,” said Joy Sen, head of the IIT’s architecture department and its Sandhi coordinator.
 
 While scouring the depths of Varanasi, the team stumbled upon several water spouts that have remained alive for centuries. These are in the deepest parts of Varanasi and are called kunds, far removed from the river bank. “We studied the source of these kunds, went as deep as the bed and found they are connected with the Ganga. Over this period, Ganga changed course several times and moved kilometres away to where it flows now, leaving its footprints behind. We mapped this change of course through the city by joining the dots left by the Ganga in these kunds,” Sen said.
 
 In doing so, the team concluded that despite the change of course, the river is still active underneath in the form of an unused water table that can be activated to resolve the drinking water crisis and water requirements of the handloom-handicraft industry — the mainstay of Varanasi’s economy. “The city is actually sitting on a well-networked waterflow system, which has been unused for centuries. Together with our partner institutions, we have devised a plan on how to activate it without disturbing the overground structures much,” Sen said. This plan will be incorporated in the efforts to make Varanasi a smart city.
 
 A sub-part of this quest is another map being drawn up to trace the mythological sage Rishyashringa’s   (as mentioned in ‘Ramayana’) and find out if it extended to Buddha’s Sarnath, as is often claimed by historians.
 
 
