NAGPUR: The second day of the HSC Board exams saw many happy faces outside the centre as the   was not a tough nut to crack for many. Students were delighted to find an   question paper which didn’t pose many challenges. 

 According to experts, the pass percentage would be high for the Hindi paper. Kiran Mishra, Hindi teacher from Tata Parsi Junior college said, “The seen passages for comprehension were extracts of very simple chapters. All the questions were to the point and in fact the letter was the most easy part where they asked to write a leave application. Even the essay topics were very predictable and basic too.”
 
 Om Khungar from Mohta Science college said, “All the questions were picked up from the textbook and we were well acquainted with it. This helped us save time in thinking and we could write the answers quickly. Even the multiple choice questions were a piece of cake.” 
 
 Thalif Taji from Mohta Science college was among the students who heaved a sigh of relief after going through the creative writing section which can be tricky at times. He said, “I didn’t expect the exam to be so simple. After seeing the topics, I felt confident and went ahead with a cool mind. After finishing the letter writing segment I knew that I can hope for a really good score.” 
 
 There were also some like Vidhi Gour of LAD College who found the speech writing segment tough. Rohini Zalak from RS Mundle believed that the question set was very different as compared to the previous year’s papers. “Overall the paper was easy to understand and solve but I personally took a lot of time in poetry and advertisement part.” 
 
 Class XII students had appeared for their English exam just a day before on Wednesday. According to Zalak, the board should give ample time to study during the exams just like CBSE. 
 
 Test series, prelims and other pattern of exams which are conducted as mock test before the actual boards help students in improving their speed and prepare them for the real challenge. Yash Khandelwal from Mohta Science said that he took those tests seriously because of which he wrote the paper effortlessly.
 
 Ritik Motghare from Mohta Science could finish the paper 20 minutes before as he was totally engrossed in the interesting grammar and creative writing section which he finished in one go. 
 
 
