INDORE: The state education department this year will allot streams to students in   with an interest test through a mobile application, ‘MP Career Mitra’. 

 Students of government schools studying in Class X in Indore and other parts of the state on February 15 and 16 appeared for the interest test on the smartphones of their teachers. 
 
 The government school teachers were asked to download the app on their smartphones and were given training to use this app for the test. “It is exactly like the aptitude test that is conducted for Class X and XII students to know their inclination and aptitude for a subject. On the basis of this test the streams will be allotted to the students in class XI,” said district education officer SS Kaushal. 
 
 The state school education department has signed a MoU with Pune’s Shyamchi Aai Foundation for three years under which it will conduct interest test and career counselling free of cost. The   has also been developed by a few students from a college in Pune. 
 
 The state education department had asked all the government school principals to ensure availability of at least one smartphone on every ten students in a class. Every student had to answer a set of objective type questions on the app and submit it along with the personal details of the student including name, roll number, address etc. 
 
 The data gathered through the test will be analysed by a team of subject experts, who will be suggesting streams on the basis of the test, for students. The suggestions will be then passed on to the students through the school principals resulting in finalisation of streams. 
 
 According to the officials of the state education department, selected teachers from each government school will be trained for career counselling and they will do career counselling for the students in the month of May and June. 
 
 The result of the test will be declared on April 2. Earlier in the absence of career guidance, the students studying in the government schools most of the time remained confused about the   to be chosen in Class XI and higher education alternatives along with career options in the future. 
 
 
