HYDERABAD: The   (NAS) has revealed that class 8 students from government and aided schools in Telangana are far behind their peers from other southern states in academic performance.

 NAS, conducted by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), collated the learning outcomes of students from classes 5-8. Learning outcome covers what a student should know and demonstrate, as well as knowledge gained at the end of a course. As many as 1,50,340 class 8 students were surveyed across 31 districts in Telangana.
 
  
 Analysis of southern states reveals that 63.27 per cent of students from Kerala and 62.33 per cent of students from Karnataka performed well in language. In comparison, performance of students from Telangana in language stood at a dismal 45.28 per cent.
 
 Similarly, in mathematics, 50.34 per cent of students in Karnataka and 49.83 per cent in Andhra Pradesh could play the number game. In Telangana, a meagre 32.63 per cent could solve mathematical problems while many faced issuesin drawing and interpreting bar diagrams and pie charts, adding and subtracting algebraic expressions.
 
 Students in Telangana scored only 34.78 per cent and 32.85 per cent in science and social studies respectively, with many having problems applying scientificconceptsto everyday life and locating important historical sites on an outline map of India.
 
 Experts claim that the NAS highlights the need for more qualified teachers.
 
 “There are vacancies in subject teachers in government and aided schools. For example, if English is taught by a Telugu teacher, it will certainly affect the learning outcome of students. Therefore, there is a need to understand the quality of teaching being undertaken at government and aided schools,” said K Laxminarayana, organising secretary of the Save Education Committee.
 
 Others attributed the low learning level of class 8 students to rote learning. “Without explaining concepts and clarifying doubts, teachers often ask students to do self-study who then resort to rotelearning. The methodology in schools needs to be evaluated before we draw conclusions,” said Ranjitha Kalukuri, a retired teacher of a governmentaided school.
 
 The average performance of class 8 students in districts such as Hyderabad, Nizamabad, Warangal, Ranga Reddy among others was less than 40 per cent. In few districts such as Adilabad, the average performance of students in mathematics and science was even worse at 28.60 per cent and 28.71per cent respectively.
 
 
