PATNA: All the 16 presidential candidates for the   Students’ Union ( ) took part in an open house debate to explain their vision to the electorate at   on Thursday. Students will cast their votes on Saturday.

 In the allotted 10 minutes’ time, each candidate addressed the audience one by one. Most of them vowed to fight for central university status to Patna University (PU) and for ensuring proper security to girl students. They expressed grave concern over the acute shortage of teachers and demanded immediate filling up of all vacant posts.
 
 While some pleaded for creating placement cells in all the colleges and postgraduate departments, others demanded better infrastructure for sports and cultural activities. One contestant opined that better facilities be provided to the visually impaired scholars residing in hostels and payment of appropriate stipend to the research scholars. “All is not well with this 100-year-old university and we will force the authorities concerned to take better care of our alma mater,” said one contestant.
 
 The would-be leaders, who addressed the students, included Akash Sinha, Chandani, Divyanshu Bharadwaj, Gautam Kumar, Hrishav Kumar, Kumari Shashibala, Kunal, Md Sufiyan, Mitu Kumari, Mukesh Dayal, Mukesh Kumar, Priyanshu Priyadarshi, Radheshyam Mishra, Rahul Roy, Sangeeta Sharma and Vivek Kumar.
 
 Even though the PU authorities had asked the candidates and their supporters not to wear caps, scarves and display flags of any party, volunteers of different student organizations were seen flouting the rules. Volunteers of some organizations reached the venue in processions, shouting slogans in support of their candidates. Students owing allegiance to the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, Chhatra Janata Dal (U), All India Students’ Federation, All India Students’ Association, Chhatra RJD, NSUI, Chhatra Lok Janshakti and other organizations were present in full strength to listen to their leaders. Some independent candidates also impressed the audience.
 
 PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh initiated the discussion and asked the contestants to present their vision in 10 minutes’ time. “PUSU election will be the role model for other universities,” he said. 
 
 Chief election officer  , students’ welfare dean N K Jha, proctor G K Palei, registrar   and some senior teachers were also present on the occasion.
 
 Campaigning for PUSU polls ended at 5pm on Thursday, but the candidates were seen making personal contacts with the electorate in hostels and lodges till late evening. 
 
 Meanwhile, the venue for counting of votes on Saturday has been changed from Magadh Mahila College to Patna Science College.
 
