Ram Charan's latest rural drama 
 , which released amid much fanfare on Friday, has stormed the box-office — both domestic and overseas. The film opened to rave reviews, with critics hailing  's performance, many calling it his best ever, and the audience lapped it up, resulting in a stupendous show at the box-office in the worst weekend. The film has collected more than $800, 000 at the overseas box-office in just two days. Given that the film has released at the start of Summer, when school children have holidays, trade analysts have predicted that the film's collections could continue to increase as the week progresses. 

 
 
 Giving a breakdown of the Ram Charan-starrer's box-office performance in US and Australia, noted trade analyst Taran Adarsh tweeted, " Telugu film #Rangasthalam is EXTRAORDINARY in USA and Australia... 
 USA Thu previews $ 706,611 
 Fri $ 556,625 
 Total: $ 1,263,236 [₹ 8.23 cr] 
 Note: Updated numbers for Thu previews and Fri @Rentrak 
 AUSTRALIA 
 Fri A$ 165,991 
 Sat A$ 72,088 
 Total: A$ 238,079 [₹ 1.19 cr] @Rentrak (sic)"
 
 Trade analysts have also shared that ' ', which is directed by  , has already entered the top 10 of the best performing Telugu films at the US box-office. Made on a budget of approximately Rs 60 crore, the film's theatrical rights were said to have been sold for around Rs 80 crore, the highest for a Ram Charan film. 
 
 
 
 
  "With Premieres and 2 Days, #Rangastalam enters All-time Top 10 at the #USA Tollywood Box office.. $1,828,755.. At 10..(sic)," trade analyst Ramesh Bala posted on Twitter. He later followed it up with another tweet, listing out the entire top 10.
 
  
  
 'Rangasthalam' tells the story of Chitti Babu, played by Ram Charan, and shows he transforms from a gullible villager to someone who stands up to save his village from his oppression. One of things that enamoured the audience to Chitti Babu is the fact that he is semi deaf, and the character has a sense of innocence and humour attached to it.   Akkineni plays his love interest Ramalakshmi, while   plays the role of the vicious village President. 
 
 
 
 
 Produced by Mythri Movie Makers, 'Rangasthalam' also features   Bharadwaj as Rangammatta, another role which has received widespread acclaim. 
 
 
 
