CHENNAI: Two Carnatic artists will now feature in a music   which has brought together musicians from across the world. ‘Maitree’ (Friendship) will have songs based on Carnatic ragas, Irish music, jazz and music from the Middle East.

  exponent Nirmala Rajasekar and   player Thanjavur Murugaboobathi were selected to be part of the CD, funded by the Minnesota State Arts Board. "Musicians from various countries came together and composed the pieces, all of which have retained the local flavour. For Carnatic songs, the gamakam, or embellishments, used is important. So, all the pieces based on Carnatic ragas have gamakam not only in veena but also in other instruments played by the foreign players for the piece," says Nirmala, who has sung and played the veena for the CD.
 
 Many practice sessions were required to ensure coordination. "Except for Nirmala and me, other artists were not familiar with Carnatic music and for us, the other forms of music were new," says Murugaboopathi. All the artists were also particular about protecting their own forms of music. "We had to learn the nuances of the foreign instruments and the music played," he says.
 
 Other musicians featured include Pat O Keefe (saxophone and clarinet), Michelle Kinney (cello) and Tim O Keefe (daf, banjo, harmonica). "Of the 10 pieces, six are in Carnatic ragas. They include Annamacharya’s ‘Nanati Baduku’ in Revathi raga, Kanchi Paramacharya’s ‘Maitrem Bhajatha’ in Ragamalika and one piece in Vasanthi raga. A piece in Mallari raga was also composed for an Irish piece," says Nirmala.
 
 She says that ‘Maitree’ is not a fusion CD. "It is different as each musician has stuck to his music but played the song based on a Carnatic raga. That was the difficult part and we needed several sessions to perfect it." 
 
 The veena player wants to popularise the instrument on the world stage. "I have been playing the veena at various world forums and the present CD is one way of making the instrument known to the world," says Nirmala. 
 
 The CD, named after ‘Maitrem Bhajatha’ sung by M S Subbulakshmi at the UN General Assembly in 1966, will be released in March this year.
 
 
