INDORE:   caught his own breath in disappointment when Ishan Kishan threw his wicket. The skipper looked slightly up, bent a little, gathered his willow and headed straight to take the guard in search of a win. 

 
 The skipper had Hardik Pandya in company but the latter once again threw his wicket. Rohit tensely looked at the giant electronic screen which reflected   require 50 off 24 balls. The task was tough and Kings XI sensed a chance after putting 174 for 6 on the board.
 
 
 
 But, the rampaging Rohit and equally destructive   had other plans. They reduced the equation to 16 off 12 by walloping   1, 4, 1, 4, 4, 6 in the 18th over. Krunal, who was carrying his team’s hopes, finally gave a knock-out punch to the rivals as Mumbai Indians lived to die another day. 
 
 In the end, the defending champions recorded an easy six-wicket win over   at the Holkar Stadium on Friday. The way Mumbai engineered this win shows they just can’t be written off. 
 
 Chasing 175, Mumbai reached the destination in 19th overs scoring 176 for 4 to ensure Punjab suffer third loss overall and first on their adopted home. 
 
 This was the third win in ninth game for the Rohit-led outfit. They can’t afford to lose any of the upcoming five games in order to stand a chance of qualifying for the play-offs.
 Just before the Krunal and Rohit weaved a match-winning partnership, Surya Kumar Yadav (57), Ishan (25) and Hardik (23) played a vital role in the champion’s victory.
 
 KXIP's five win out of seven matches have come on the back of some stupendous performance from the top order. On Friday, their openers, Chris Gayle and KL Rahul, did put the runs on the board but they weren't off to a flier. It was Karun Nair and Marcus Stoinis who provided the late flourish as the hosts posted 174 for 6.
 
 The top-3 of the Punjab line-up were back in the hut by the 13th over with the score not over 100. Smelling blood, Mumbai Indians started tightening the screws. They also benefitted from some weird batting promotions by KXIP skipper R Ashwin. 
 
 Yuvraj Singh, who has struggled in almost all of his six innings this season, was sent ahead of Nair. Once Yuvraj departed after a scratchy run-a-ball 14, Axar Patel was promoted ahead of Mayank Agrawal. All this hampered the Punjab innings as they stuttered to 135 for 5 by the end of 17th over. 
 
 MI skipper Rohit Sharma looked a happy man after Jasprit Bumrah, Ben Cutting and Mitchell McClenhagen did a fantastic job of restricting the KXIP innings in the death overs. The trio gave away just 29 runs form over number 16 to 19.
 
 That was when Stoinis came to Punjab’s rescue. The Australian smacked two sixes and as many fours off the last over bowled by Hardik. Stoinis' blitzkrieg provided the push Punjab’s innings needed. With 22 runs coming off the final over, Punjab finished on 174 for 6. 
 
 
