Every day 63-year-old Arockia Gnanaolivu, reaches ‘Puthuyuga Valibar Threga Payirchi Salai’ (new age gym) in Madurai’s Palanganatham area sharp at 6am. He picks up a heavy shovel and starts digging a dirt pit in the campus. Although the task appears simple, it requires enormous energy. For Gnanaolivu, it is just a warm up exercise before he could start his ‘kusthi’ (wrestling) practice. Gnanaolivu is one among the last of a league of wrestlers, who are struggling to keep the sport alive in the city today. His kusthi ground, which is more than 70 years old, is the last surviving   schools in  , which had more than 12 such schools between 1940 and 1980.

 Palani, 92, the wrestling master of the school says, unlike earlier days, the youth today join the school for bodybuilding purposes. With only a few opting for wrestling, the sport at the school is limited to elderly wrestlers like Gnanaolivu. Keeping in mind the waning demand for wrestling, the school’s trust upgraded it into a gymnasium in 1990. "Youth mostly come here to train for police selection and army entrances," says Palani.
 
 But, Palani liked the earlier days better. Interestingly, wrestling schools in the earlier times were affiliated to political parties, which used them as platforms to induct cadres. "Those days, people looking for work required physical fitness as Madurai was known for its textile mills, and wrestling every morning appeared to be an attractive way for youngsters to tone their bodies. Almost all parties including DMK had wrestling schools. The boys training here also proved their value when there were political clashes," says Solomon, 62, a wrestling master.
 
 Muscle power was also put to use in constructive work. "My boys those days were sturdy and we dug channels to bring drinking water to the locality. We have also laid roads and done all sorts of public works. Physical well-being was an asset, a tool for public service," Palani says. 
 
 The wrestling schools used the most unconventional result-yielding methods to hone skills of young wrestlers — digging the wrestling pit, climbing a nearby hillock and swimming the breadth of the village tank are a few to name. 
 
 A Ramu, 83, gingerly joins Palani when asked to demonstrate their prowess in the arena. "It was a lot of fun those days. With us, the last of wrestlers will disappear."
 
 Palani says the interest towards wrestling diminished among the youth with the growing craze for bodybuilding. "More than training wrestlers, we prepare young boys in the locality for defense and police forces. At least six to 10 boys training here clear the exams," he says. "The job requirement now is more of brain power than muscle power. Also, the muscle power that was used for public welfare soon transformed into rowdyism, discouraging many youngsters against wrestling," he adds.
 
 
