SHIMLA: Opposition   staged a walkout from the assembly on the second day of budget session on Wednesday on the issue of mass transfers, especially in the education and health departments, by the BJP government. Congress leaders alleged that even dead and retired were shifted out in the last two months as over 20,000 transfers had taken place in the state. 

 The opposition members resorted to protest inside the House when speaker Rajiv Bindal did not accept the notice they wanted to give on the issue under rule 67 before staging a walkout. Chief minister   said the opposition was acting in an irresponsible manner.
 
 Congress legislators wanted to know that how many transfers had been done by the government up to February 15 and sought district-wise details. 
 
 Bindal said he was informed about the adjournment notice by   Harshvardhan Chauhan around 9.40am, saying the opposition wanted to know about transfers in education, health and other departments under rule 67. The notice was signed by Congress legislators Jagat Singh Negi and Nanda Lal. 
 
 Chauhan claimed mass transfers were happening despite the cabinet decision on February 3 to ban them. He said the new regime in the state had transferred over 20,000 employees. He said teachers were being transferred even during the time of examination. Congress Legislature Party leader Mukesh Agnihotri said that even dead and retired people were transferred. 
 
 Speaker Rajeev Bindal clarified that the matter cannot be raised under rule 67 and that they could take up the issue under some other procedural rules like a calling attention motion. 
 
 Parliamentary affairs minister  , who also holds the education portfolio, said the government was ready for a discussion but not under rule 67. This angered the opposition and after raising slogans, the members staged a walkout. Later, CM Thakur said in his 20 years as legislator he had seen those making a lot of noise in the House never returning to the assembly. He said a BJP legislator had raised a question on transfers under the Congress regime and not received a reply in five years. 
 
 “If we compare the transfers in first two months of the previous and this government, the figure would be much more, almost double or triple, in case of former,” he said. “We are ready for discussion on any issue, provided there is properenvironment for discussion,” Thakur added.
 
 
