HYDERABAD: Over half of the women in the state (51%) and a little less than half of the men in the state (46%) are malnourished (either too thin or are overweight to obese) despite a reduction in under-nutrition over the last decade.

 In fact, the state has seen a huge jump in over-nutrition, which is aggravating the  . This   has been underlined in the National Family and Health Survey (NFHS-4), India's biggest survey of social indicators that was released recently.
 
 
 Compared to the previous survey carried out in 2005, obesity in   has gone up by over 10%, which is a worrying trend,   In fact, more men and women were found to be overweight or obese than thin, with 28% of women and 24% of men being overweight or obese.
 
 “While this increase in obesity in women may be primarily due to a sedentary lifestyle, the jump has been significant. During the last survey, it was around 12-14%. Moreover, even as anaemia and under-nutrition is on the decline, over-nutrition has seen a huge jump. This means that the overall number of people who are malnourished remain the same,” explained Dr Avala Laxmaiah, director grade scientist, National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) Hyderabad.
  
  
 
 Another alarming trend is that 57% of women in Telangana have anaemia, including 37% with mild anaemia, 18% with moderate anaemia, and 3% with severe anaemia.
 
 “Anaemia is particularly high for women belonging to scheduled tribes and  , but half or more women are anaemic in every subgroup, except those not belonging to a scheduled caste, scheduled tribe or other backward class,” read the NFHS 4 (2015-2016) report.
 
 Surprisingly, boys were found to be more likely to have anaemia than girls but with age the anaemia prevalence decreased. In comparison to 62% boys having anaemia, 59% girls had anaemia. Experts ascribe the high levels of physical activity in smaller boys to the phenomenon but rule gender bias in food being a reason.
 
 However, “children whose mothers are anaemic have a much higher prevalence of anaemia (65%-73%) than children whose mothers are not anaemic (54%). Although anaemia levels vary according to most background characteristics, at least half the children in every subgroup are anaemic, except children age 48-59 months. In this oldest age group of children tested for anaemia, 44% are anaemic,” the report said.
 
 Meanwhile though undernutrition has gone down by 10% (as compared to the previous survey) 23% women and 21% men in Telangana were reported to be too thin. However to be able to reach the Sustainable Development Goals (SGD) set by the   (WHO) the rate at which under-nutrition is reducing must double, indicated experts.
 
