NEW DELHI: A city court acquitted Delhi CM   in two defamation cases — one filed by Union minister   and the other by advocate  , son of   leader   — after he tendered written apologies. Kejriwal had earlier apologised to Akali leader B S Majithia. Though the “sorry” spree has drawn flak from within and outside the party, Kejriwal seems determined to apologise his way out of the over two dozen defamation cases he still faces.

 
 Deputy CM   said the party wasn’t interested in “ego fights”. He, however, did not clarify whether Kejriwal also planned to apologise to Union finance minister Arun Jaitley.
 
 Sisodia too tendered his apology in the Amit Sibal case and was acquitted. In Gadkari’s criminal defamation case, additional chief metropolitan magistrate Samar Vishal observed, “In view of the joint application, accompanied by the letter of regret and the statements of counsel of both the parties, this defamation case under Section 500 IPC, filed by Nitin Gadkari against Arvind Kejriwal, stands compounded and accused Kejriwal stands acquitted…” Gadkari had filed a criminal defamation case against Kejriwal for alleging that he was involved in corruption.
 
 In his apology letter dated March 16, Kejriwal wrote, “Both of us are in public life belonging to different political parties. I made certain statements without regard to its verifiability, which seems to have hurt you.... I have nothing personal against you. I regret the same. Let us put the incident behind us and bring the court proceedings to a closure. I suggest we should put our energy to serve the people of this country, in the spirit of mutual respect.”
 
 Gadkari, through senior advocate Pinki Anand, and Kejriwal, through lawyers Rishikesh Kumar and Mohd Irshad, filed a joint application seeking withdrawal of the former's defamation complaint.
 
 In the other defamation case filed by Amit Sibal against Kejriwal, the court took on record a joint application filed by both parties.
 
 Complainant Amit Sibal informed the court, “Kejriwal and Sisodia had acknowledged that I was hurt and the allegation which they made against me and my father, at the press conference held at Constitution Club on May 15, 2013, were unfounded. Both of them have withdrawn all their statements and allegations... and apologized… they have regretted the damage caused to me and my family’s esteem, friends and wellwishers and regretted the hurt and loss caused to us.”
 
 Amit Sibal, however, added that was without prejudice to the “averments made in my complaint” against other accused persons — Shazia Ilmi and Prashant Bhushan— and his right to pursue the complaint against them. “The proceedings will continue against Bhushan and Ilmi,” the court said.
 
 “In view of the joint application, sworn affidavits of Kejriwal and Sisodia, copies of letters of apology, and statements of complainant and counsel for Kejriwal and Sisodia, this defamation case filed by Amit Sibal... stands compounded and Kejriwal and Sisodia stand acquitted,” it said.
 
