PUNE: The district administration has said it will need at least a year to acquire land needed for 11 new   (STPs) in   limits.

 About seven hectares of land is needed for 11 STPs at Warje, Vadgaon Budruk and Mundhwa, but the acquisition process has been affected by several technical glitches.
 
 
 The project was proposed on January 13, 2016 and a loan agreement was signed with   (JICA), in a bid to remove pollution from the   by January 2022.
 
 The Japanese government agreed to provide a soft loan of Rs1,000 crore for the project for a 40-year period. 
  
 
 The project will increase the city’s sewage treatment capacity by 396 million litres per day (MLD). At present, Pune has the capacity to treat only 567 MLD.
 
 A land acquisition officer, who did not want to be named, said there was first a delay in the sanctioning of funds, which were further delayed as there was no IFSC code linked to their   (PLA). Once this was sorted, they were hit by the issue of encroachments in Warje and other problems related to measurement. “We are yet to hear from (the officials). We have raised several queries regarding the land acquisition,” the officer said.
 
 The PMC had given the district administration Rs245 crore to buy the parcels of land from private individuals.
 
 “Once the queries are answered, we can measure the land. We have requested the district collector to appoint an administrator as per the new land acquisition policy. Unless there is clarity on the measurement and encroachments removed, the process will be delayed,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile Jagdish Khanore, superintending engineer with PMC’s drainage department, told TOI that the civic body has initiated action against illegal structures on the land reserved for STPs. “We are hoping that the land is acquired at the earliest as it is a priority for the city,” stated Khanore.
 
 He further said if the queries are answered by the PMC, then they can declare the land for acquisition and pass on the awards and even compensation as per the new policy.
 
