Panaji: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education is a step closer to its long-awaited new premises, as the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) is preparing to float a tender for the construction of the new building. The structure is going to be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 25 crore, and a deadline of two years has been set for its completion, officials said.   The new premises will be built in the open land next to the board’s current premises, which is in Porvorim and occupies around 8,000 sq m of land. The new building is expected to have rooms to carry out the confidential work of the Class X and Class XII public exams, as well as conference rooms. The cost of Rs 25 crore includes furnishing. It will also be fitted with state-of-the-art computers before being handed over, as the Goa Board is increasingly shifting its work online.    “The new structure will be a hi-tech building on the lines of the new education department premises,” Goa Board chairman Ramkrishna Samant said.    Although the current building is less than 30 years old, it began showing signs of deterioration due to its poor construction. The issue of the poor condition of the building was even raised in the state assembly in the past. The building has also proven inadequate to carry out the board’s work like correction of answer papers. The structure also experiences water seepage during the monsoon.    Around eight years ago, plans were floated to construct a Pariksha Bhavan, which was solely to be used for the purpose of paper corrections, marks compilation, and other such examination-related work. But the plan did not materialise for want of funds.    New study    The current Goa Board building was opened for use in 1993    By 2010, the state government had to consider renovating the structure as it was fast deteriorating    Last year, Goa Higher Secondary Teachers’ Association protested, stating that as the Pariksha Bhavan sanctioned by the government has not materialised over the years, teachers are the forced go to different institutes to correct papers, where they do not have basic facilities like clean toilets and comfortable seating    The association had demanded that the Pariksha Bhavan complex be constructed at the earliest.     