MUMBAI: A day after the announcement of a re-examination for   class X mathematics and class XII economics papers, several city schools participated in a   for online distribution of papers.

 Schools, which are exam centres, were on Thursday asked to prepare for a mock drill by making arrangements for a duplex printer and photocopier. 
 
 The schools had to print 150 copies of four sets of dummy question papers.
 
 Principals are, however, unsure about the feasibility of an online system. “Internet connectivity is not uniform in schools and servers might not take the load when schools across the country log in at the same time,” said the principal of a school in Navi Mumbai.
 
 Similarly, the large number of students could make it difficult for schools to print and bundle all question papers before the exam. “The exam begins at 10.30 am, which means we will have to start printing and stapling hours in advance since we have over 850 students taking the test from our centre,” said the principal of school in the western suburbs. Schools had to submit to the CBSE a report of the time taken to print papers.
 
 Meanwhile, resentment among students and parents about the   continued to grow. Several students started an online petition against the decision and also wrote to the Prime Minister’s office. Principals and students want the re-exam to be conducted as early as possible to ensure it doesn’t clash with the competitive exams. “We are preparing for entrances and other competitive exams which are scheduled from the last week of April to May. A re-test should take place in the first or second week of April so that we can divide our time judiciously for the entrances as well as revise economics,” said Mihika Bahety, a class XII student.
 
 The re-exam will also delay class XI. “We were supposed to start the class XI academic year on April 9. With the re-exam dates not out yet, we might have to put those plans on hold. The board should conduct the re-exam as early as possible,” said Avnita Bir, principal, RN Podar School, Santacruz.
 
 Rumours about exams dates kept social media abuzz, but CBSE did not make any announcement.
 
 
 
