Long traffic jams during peak hours and frustrated commuters trying to find a way to avoid them – there is nothing new to this story in Gurgaon. But there is one particular part of Gurgaon where long jams are causing major grief to people, and it has been like that for a while now. The HUDA City Centre   Station is one of the most crowded in Gurgaon, especially during peak office hours, and the huge number of autos and cabs parked right outside have been creating chaos. The waiting autos and the cabs cover a major portion of the road, leading to jams, which are sometimes so long that commuters say they have had to reschedule meetings or find alternative routes. “I have been taking the Metro since the day it first started in Gurgaon. The autos parked all over the road has made commuting a problem. There is no crowd management and in the morning, even reaching the Metro station is a task,” says Maria Assuntha, a resident of Sector 45.
 However, the autowallahs parked outside the Metro station say that the jams are caused by people who illegally park their vehicles on the road, despite the presence of   officials. Those who drive prepaid autos say that this chaos is also eating into their business, even though they park only in the lane designated for them.
 
 
  
  Haphazardly parked autos take up more than half of the road 
 
 
 
 Gurugrammers say that since the haphazardly parked autos and cabs take up more than half of the road, they’ve been stuck in jams for so long that they’ve had to face the wrath of angry clients and bosses. Rishabh Sharma, a South City resident who takes this road everyday, says, “It has become a regular affair for autos to break traffic rules and cause inconvenience to the public. Once, I had a meeting in the morning near  , but all the parked autos and cabs left barely two lanes for cars to pass by, and that led to a huge jam which took about 40-45 mins to clear. Because of this, my meeting got cancelled.” 
 Some even dread taking the route in the mornings and have found alternative ways to reach their workplace. Bhaavan Goswami, another Gurgaon resident, adds, “There’s a huge chaos at the red light at the   during office hours daily. Due to the mismanagement between the auto drivers and the traffic police, the autos cover almost 60% of the road. I’ve had to cancel so many of my meetings because I got stuck in traffic jams there. Now, I take the road going via the IFFCO Chowk Metro Station. Although I have to take a little detour, it’s better than wasting my time stuck in jam.”
 Yaman Rekhi, a Sector 40 resident who works in Galleria Market, says, “Getting down at that Metro station or even crossing the road outside it is a pretty bad experience. Normally, it should take 10-15mins to reach   from Sector 40, but thanks to these autos, I spend 15 minutes just on that 500m patch of road.”
 
  
  Most of the autos are parked at no parking zones
 
 
 
 South City resident Lakshay Sahni says that although the main cause of the jams are the autowallahs, commuters coming out of the Metro station in huge groups also add to it, because they don’t use the foot-over bridge. He says, “I cross the road between Huda City Centre and Unitech Business Park everyday. There’s a foot-over bridge over there that people refuse to use. So during peak hours, apart from the autos, the huge number of people crossing the road adds to the traffic snarls and increases the chances of accidents.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The drivers of prepaid autos parked outside the Metro station say that it is the regular autos that cause the jam by parking illegally on the road. Sunil Yadav, a prepaid auto driver stationed outside the station, tells us, “Hum logon ke toh prepaid autos hain, so there’s a list that we’re a part of. But these autowallahs who park on the road come from the other areas of the city to pick up commuters, they jam the roads because they park outside of the designated lane.” So what happens when the traffic policemen come? “These guys take a U-turn, park on the other side of the road, and wait for them to leave. After which, they come here again and create chaos,” he adds.
 Mahesh, another autowallah stationed outside the station, says that since people are always in a hurry and they don’t have the time to wait for prepaid autos, they take the ones standing outside the lane as it’s faster, which ultimately affects their business. He tells us, “Hum toh apne number se chalte hain (since they’re prepaid autos), par log joh Metro station se bahar aate hain woh jaldi mein hote hain. So they usually end up taking the autos standing on the road. So these autos not only create chaos, they also affects our business.”
 
  
  
 
 
 A traffic police constable outside the station tells us, “These autowallahs have created a huge problem for the commuters. Whenever we come here, they run away, but they come back as soon as we leave. So what we’ve started doing now is that we stand at a place from where we’re not visible, and when we see any autowallah standing outside the area designated to them, we issue challans and sometimes even impound their vehicles. On some days, we end up impounding 10 autos.” 
 Talking about how it’s not only the autos, but also the commuters and the cabs waiting outside the station that cause jams, ASI Bijender Singh says, “Not just autos, even the cab drivers park their cars on the road, which leads to jams. Pedestrians also refuse to use the foot-over bridge, and put their lives in danger. Once, we challaned a cab driver parked on the road, after which he said, ‘Ab aapne challan kar diya, ab toh main yahin khadi rakhunga gaadi poore din,’ and he wouldn’t budge. So we had to call a crane and have his vehicle impounded. That added o the chaos. Now we make sure that we stay here till evening to clear the traffic and stop these autowallahs from parking illegally on the road.”
  
  
 
 
 -- Shambhavi.Modgill@timesgroup.com
