CHANDIGARH: Wild and free-ranging birds of   have been counted over the decades at an estimated 135 species, but just a handful of them from a single species dare share the fruity breakfast put out for Indian Crested porcupines that adds on yummy cut veggies and roasted peanuts. 

 The birds that mingle with porcupines, and even sit on their quills, are half-a-dozen Rose-ringed   that have colonised the Peepul tree growing within the precincts of the porcupine enclosure.
 
 While certain birds and mammals do share food in the wilderness, such as peacocks and langurs on fruits, the porcupine-parakeet feasting party at the zoo is unusual because it will not arise in the natural state. Porcupines are nocturnal feeders, while parakeets are denizens of sunshine. But in the zoo such behavioural aspects get diluted. "Other examples of wild birds coming and feeding with our zoo specimens include Cattle egrets, which flock to the crocodile and gharial enclosures. Egrets not only look for small fish, but also scavenge from the remains of the big fish eaten by crocodiles/gharials. We have peacocks visiting the elephant enclosure and picking from the leftovers of special elephant diet such as black gram," zoo education officer   told TOI.
 
 Another fascinating aspect of the porcupine-parakeet feasting is that not all the parakeets living in the vicinity venture close to these intimidating mammals. Though largely herbivorous in their dietary preferences, porcupines are nasty customers when challenged. They are known to cause deaths of leopards, Rock pythons, tigers etc by inflicting their quills on the adversary when threatened. 
 
 Porcupines do not "fire" quills like arrows, but reverse gear into the adversary at speed, leaving quills embedded deep in the flesh. The adversary dies slowly because the animal cannot take out the quill, which infects the body and impairs movement, or even puncture the lungs. Some famous man-eating tigers and leopards were discovered to have taken to human kills because quills were lodged in their limbs.
 
 "Only a handful of parakeets venture to eat with porcupines at the enclosure, the rest of them stay away," revealed Singh. 
 
 Recounting his personal observations while photographing the porcupine-parakeet feasting at Chhatbir, wildlife photographer Darshan Sidhu told TOI: "Porcupines were cool... parakeets were enjoying... there was no conflict. It reminded me of my karate lessons....if you can beat someone let him go free...fight with someone who equals your capabilities....I also got the feeling that parakeets seemed happy as they were free and porcupines were expressionless."
 
 
