LUDHIANA: With just two weeks to go for the elections of the managing committee of Ludhiana Effluent Treatment Society (LETS) on March 17, the rival groups United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) and Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) are once again gearing up to give a tough fight by fielding their own candidates or supporting the candidates of other business associations.

 As of now there are 15 candidates in the race for different posts including one post each of chief executive officer (CEO) and secretary, and three posts of director. However, all eyes are now on the Monday, which is the last day for withdrawal of nominations. According to members of both the associations, there is a high probability that LETS elections might not take place as both the sides may come to a compromise and a team might be chosen unanimously. Even on Sunday, negotiations were underway between the prominent businessmen belonging to UCPMA and FICO regarding which associations’ representative should be made the CEO. In the wake of the present scenario, the role of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) (which until recently has held control of LETS before its former president   passed away) has become very important as it has not come out openly in support of any candidate, ever since the nomination papers of one of its prominent member SC Ralhan for the CEO post were rejected due to discrepancies. 
 
 Speaking to TOI,  , the UCPMA’s candidate for the post of CEO said, “I have filed my nominations as per wishes of the large number of businessmen belonging to different business associations. Though I have filed my papers and am ready to fight the elections, I am not against the decision to choose the managing committee of LETS unanimously, if it is acceptable to all groups and stakeholders. I do not think there is any harm in it as its in the interest of the industry and will unite different associations on one platform.”
 
 According to chairman of FICO K K Seth, who is leading the efforts of compromise between the warring factions, said on Sunday, “I am trying my best to avert the situation of elections and choose a body unanimously with consent of all the associations who are stakeholders in LETS. Me and majority of other members of my association do not want that there should be any kind of factionalism in the industry and therefore we are trying for unanimouty. Tomorrow is the last day of withdrawal of nominations and by 4pm. It will be clear whether we are heading towards elections or towards unity by choosing candidates unanimously.”
 
