NOIDA: Inspite of the high marks scored by toppers at the   Class X exams this year, there has been a sharp dip in the pass percentage of students in Dehradun region. Keeping with the national-level trend, the pass percentage dropped by 16% in the Dehradun region which includes the Noida &   districts. The pass percentage this year dipped to 81.89% from last year’s 97.27%.

 At the national level, the pass percentage has dipped to 86.70% from 90.95 % recorded last year.
 
 Although, the pass percentage had dropped by about four points at the national level last year too, the Dehradun region had gone against the national trends, registering an increase in pass percentage by a few points. Experts and officials attribute this to the re-introduction of the board exams and the CBSE doing away with the grading system, which they say will have a positive effect on the overall education system.
 
 Ranbir Tomar, regional officer, Dehradun region of CBSE, told TOI that earlier, the evaluation system was divided into two parts.
 
 “For the exam, 30% of the evaluation was done through CBSE, while 70% used to happen at the school-level due to the  . Many schools did not opt for board exams at all after it became optional. This will also help check the schools who do ensure proper mark distribution as there will be a uniform system of mark allocation now,” he said.
 
 Officials said the CGPA had restricted students to the grading points.
 
 “Students scoring in the range of 99 and 91 would be restricted to 9.5 grade point as there will be no disclosure of marks. This will help check deterioration in a student’s performance,” said another CBSE official.
 
 Students agree that they have to work harder now as earlier most students used to opt for exams within the schools as it was convenient.
 
 “No school would like to spoil its result for obvious reasons,” said another CBSE official. Students from Noida-Ghaziabad, however, continue to attain top positions in the region. Out of the total 26 students who have bagged the top five positions, 13 belong to Noida and Ghaziabad.
 
 The   have emerged with the best pass percentage in the region of 99.31%, followed by the government-aided schools with 98.52% and   with 96.51%.
 
 The pass percentage of girls is 87.97, almost 9% above the boys’ whose pass percentage is 78.29%.
 
 
