PUNE: The Maharashtra   Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA) has in a first-of-its-kind ruling stated that it can supersede oarbitration applications as well as issue order to complaints filed by a co-purchaser.

 MahaRERA said this while hearing a complaint registered by a buyer here against D S   Developers for the delay in possession of a flat in DSK Mayurban project at Pirangut. 
 
 MahaRERA clarified that it has the jurisdiction over the arbitration applications as Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA) was enacted after the Arbitration and Conciliation Act of 1996. The provisions of   have an overriding effect over the provisions of section 8 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, MahaRERA said, adding that they get can get the jurisdiction to adjudicate upon disputes related to an arbitration deal.
 
 A MahaRERA bench directed the developer to pay a 10.05%interest on Rs 4.54 lakh from July 1, 2017 till the date of handing over possession. The bench held that as the developer was paying the EMIs on the amount provided by a finance company, they did not have to pay any interest on it to the buyers. The developer also has to pay Rs 20,000 towards the complaint cost.
 
 The bench of B D Kapadnis and the adjudicating officer was hearing the complaint of Ganesh   against DSK Developers, which was developing DSK Mayurban and was to hand over the flats by June 30, 2017. The company failed to meet the deadline and the complaint was filed under section 18 of RERA. The complaint had also sought directions to the developer to pay the   to the finance company, with which there was a subvention agreement till possession.
 
 The developer’s advocate held that as per the deal with the buyers, they were supposed to move the arbitrator and not MahaRERA. The advocate added that the flat was booked in the name of Lonkar and wife,  , and only one of them was party. 
 
 MahaRERA said a complaint filed by one of them was “maintainable in law”. The adjudicating officer said the “necessary party” means “a party without whose presence a matter cannot be adjudicated upon effectively, completely and in a just manner”. 
 
 The order said the case “clearly comes” under section 18 of RERA as the extended period to hand over the flat expired on December 29. 
 
 
