NEW DELHI: Apart from the comfort and safety it offers, another reason that many prefer   to buses is its  . Unlike most metropolises around the world, passengers in Delhi have no way of knowing when they can expect a bus on their route to arrive. The reason why it’s not possible for the   to share   is that DTC itself doesn’t know the exact location of its buses. 

 While all 3,944   on road have GPS devices, these are non-functional. In this regard, the cluster scheme buses run by the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) have a better track record, as all its 1,612 vehicles have functional GPS devices. However, commuters in Delhi have no way of knowing the timetable or movement of the 5,500-strong public transport bus fleet in Delhi. GPS devices in DTC buses were placed on the roof and were encased by a metal structure, which resulted in their poor performance. In some cases, the devices have reportedly been stolen. 
 
 Things, however, are likely to improve with DTC planning to reinstall GPS devices — this time inside the buses — and it plans to float a tender soon. According to sources in the Delhi government’s transport department, DTC will also come up with a call centre from where the movement of all its buses could be tracked.
 
 “The location and movement of DTC buses was supposed to be tracked by DIMTS, for which it has been billing DTC since 2010, but it has failed to provide real-time data to DTC,” a transport department official said. “The monitoring of data from GPS devices in DTC buses was being done by DIMTS, but the result was not satisfactory. As a result, the agreement with DIMTS has been terminated,” he said. “DTC is now free to install GPS devices in its buses on its own. It will set up a call centre to track movement of buses and the modalities of operation of this control room would now be worked out,” he said.
 
 With the new GPS devices, DTC will hopefully be able to track its buses better and pass on the information to passengers. It may also be able to properly rationalise its bus routes.
 
 
