The Leaders Accelerating Development (LEAD) programme of Deshpande Foundation, Hubballi, which fosters innovative and entrepreneurial thinking, kicked off LEAD Prayana 2018 — a 14-day journey of leadership. Through this programme, a group of 120-plus young minds will travel together to various places, attend inspiring role model sessions, participate in innovative activities, learn about fellow members cultures, and much more. The programme began earlier this week with pomp at   ( )  , with over 150 participants.

 Held and hosted by VTU, the first day began with a yoga session. After the cultural night the previous evening, day-one was kicked off by special guests, LEAD co-founder Jayashree Deshpande, Satish Annigeri, Raj Belgaumkar and Jayanth Humbarwadi. The session was handled by Naveen Jha, CEO, LEAD, who infused enthusiasm into the participants through an ice breaker session. Satish spoke about his vision of education. Jayanth and Raj helped the participants figure out what path to choose and how to deal with their thought processes.
 
 After the inauguration, the participants moved to the next destination,  , which supplies aircraft parts to major airlines across the world. The tour of the 250-acre property gave participants a lot of exposure, through which they gained technical knowledge and also got to interact with the workers at AEQUS. LEADers then moved on to the Mahesh Foundation, where they met HIV+ kids. Through the month-long journey, LEADers will travel to Belagavi, Dharwad, Hubballi, Doddaballapur, Bengaluru, Mysuru, Manipal, Udupi, Dharmasthala and Kuppam on the first route. On the second route, they will visit Hyderabad, Warangal, Siddipet, Sircilla, Nizamabad and Kuppam; in route three, they will go to Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and other parts of Karnataka with an objective to motivate students to come out of their comfort zones and mingle with the group, to help them develop an insight, give plenty of experiences and to impart learning in an innovative manner. At the end of Prayana, all participants from the three routes will gather at  , which is to be held in Hubballi. Over 10 business tycoons, including  , will interact with students and will review their projects.
 
 — Sunil Patil
 
