Ghaziabad: As many as 15 boarders of a two-storied hostel housing students of IMS and   colleges in   had a narrow escape on Saturday night when a major fire broke out on the ground floor and spread quickly after two gas cylinders kept in the canteen exploded. 

 While most of the students jumped across to the terrace of the adjacent building, five boarders who were sleeping in their room were rescued by fire fighters. Officials said the situation could have been much worse had all the 26 students allotted the hostel been there — only 15 students had been staying in the building on Saturday. 
 
 It took four fire tenders almost two hours to douse the flames. The students said they had no option but to flee to the terrace and then jump across to the adjacent building as the ground-floor exit was blocked because of the flames and smoke filled the stairs.
 
 The five students, who were asleep in their room on the first floor, had to be brought down using ladders. Fire department officials said a short circuit could have sparked the blaze.
 
 Chief fire officer Sunil Kumar Singh said: “We received a call about a fire at Royal Hostel, located opposite IMS College, around 11.20pm. We rushed to the spot with two fire tenders. Later, two more vehicles were brought.”
 
 “The situation was quite grim because of the presence of inflammable materials like gas cylinders and edible oils in the kitchen. Two cylinders had already exploded. We conducted a rescue and dousing operation simultaneously. Fortunately, none suffered any major injury,” fire safety officer   said.
 
 The ground floor, which was completely gutted, housed a mess for the hostellers, a small restaurant and four rooms, separated by plywood walls, where some of the students and a teacher stayed. The students said they lost academic documents, cash, laptops and mobile phones in the fire.
 
 Vimal Kumar, an IMS student, said: “Altogether 26 students stay in the hostel, but only 15 were present at the time of the fire. The situation could have gone horribly wrong had more students been there. Most of us had just returned to our rooms when one of us suddenly spotted the flames on the ground floor. By the time we could escape, the flames had engulfed the entire floor.”
 
 Arjun Bhatnagar, a caretaker of the hostel, said the hostellers had been temporarily shifted to a nearby building.
 
 
