MUMBAI: Over-enthusiastic civic officials have begun targeting commercial establishments — even small shops with two plastic bags tucked in acorner — though the government has granted three months’ time to everyone to get rid of all banned plastic items.

 On Wednesday, four civic officials landed up at two shops in a bylane at   in Andheri (East) and asked the keepers to pay a fine of Rs 5,000 each, according to the new  . In one case, after they found two plastic bags, officials even threatened to take away the licence of the pharmacist at the medical store.
 
 
  
 
 “I have ordered an inquiry to ascertain the facts. There is a clear direction from the government that coercive action against anyone for violating the new plastic ban will be initiated only after three months (June 23). We are not taking any action against anyone till them. We will use the time to create awareness among people, will work towards providing alternatives — cloth and paper bags — and collect plastic for recycling,” said   commissioner Ajoy Mehta.
 
 Aperson present at a shop during the inspection said: “They searched both shops repeatedly. After digging out one or two plastic bags, they made the owners pay the fine. The officials showed us a receipt book and said they had collected penalties from many shopkeepers. They added that they have been given targets by their seniors to penalise shopkeepers using plastic.”
 
 Senior civic officials sniff something amiss in the enthusiasm of the four junior staffers. “There was no direction from us to act against violators because we don’t want to create panic and confusion among citizens. We suspect that the four officials acted on their own to harass shopkeepers,” said a senior civic official.
 
 They suspect the four officials will take shelter behind the 2006 law that bars use of plastic bags thinner than 50 microns during the inquiry to be conducted by deputy municipal commissioner  .
 
 The harassment in a small bylane in Andheri came out in the open as the receipt issued by the four officials to one of the shopkeepers went viral on social media, forcing the BMC to sit up and act. After the plastic ban, the BMC anticipated misuse of the law and that’s why it has given a clear directive that penalties will start only after three months, and has decided to assign specific uniforms and ID cards to its special inspection teams.
 
 
  
  
 
