Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court on Friday summoned director general of police (DGP) OP Galhotra for inordinate delay in criminal investigation and frequent changes in the investigating officers.

 The court asked the DGP to put in place a monitoring mechanism to avoid such pendency leading to unwanted litigation and also to chalk out norms for changing the investigating officers.
 
 The single bench of Justice KS Ahluwalia was hearing a petition by former minister Virendra Meena seeking a fair investigation against the charges of manhandling levelled against him by a constable attached with the security of another politician Dr Kirori Lal Meena in 2008.
 
 HC said, the courts are flooded with applications seeking fair probe as investigations are inordinately delayed and the investigating officers are changed midway through the investigation leading to further delay in probe. The court asked what is the criteria for changing the investigating officers and if any monitoring mechanism is in place to monitor the progress of the investigation. The court said it is high time the police department set its house in order by put in place a monitoring system on the progress of the investigation and also spell out the reasons for changing investigating officer to reinforce the faith of the public in the law and order machinery.
 
 In the petition in question Constable Bholuram filed a complaint at Lalsot police station in Dausa on February 16 2008 against then MLA Virendra Meena accusing him of abusing and manhandling him. He said the incident took place on February 15 2008. He was accompanying Dr Kirorila Lal Meena MLA to Lalsot. He said Meena’s his convey stopped on the way at Samwasa to give side to a vehicle coming from the opposite direction. Suddenly a Bolero coming from behind hit the vehicle and when the security of Dr Kirorilal Lal Meena tried to stop the vehicle he abused and and assaulted. 
 
 He later learnt that the person in the Bolero was Virendra Meena MLA and filed an FIR against him.
 
 The Rajasthan High court had issued notice to then Dausa district superintendent of police Anshuman Bhumia in 2014 for the reason for the pendency of the investigation and asked him to file an affidavit. Bhumia in the affidavit said there is a court stay on further investigation but the court found there was no stay.
 
 The court on Friday directed the police to complete the investigation within on a month with the petitioner had the liberty to approach the court if the investigation goes against him. 
 
 
