Mysuru: Removal of private vehicles parked inside the zonal office of the   (MCC) led to a spat between BJP   for Agrahara ward BV Manjunath and MCC zone one   Poornachandra.

 Accompanied by MCC’s Abhaya team, Garuda personnel, KR police, and a mobile police patrol vehicle, Poornachandra tried to get private vehicles parked within the premises of MCC’s zonal office removed. However, not too pleased with these actions, the residents brought the issue to the notice of the ward corporator Manjunath, who rushed to the spot.
 
 While the duo entered into a sparring contest, MCC commissioner   intervened, requesting both parties to remain calm. Jagadeesha assured the aggrieved parties that the problem would be resolved by Tuesday.
 
 Poornahcnadra told TOI that he moved to remove vehicles from MCC zonal office premises in the wake of complaints from the public about youngsters parking their vehicles there and indulging in illicit activities. “Around four to five vehicles have been parked within the premises for the past one month, and the office premises had become a den for illegal activities. So, with permission from the MCC commissioner and with police support, I tried to get the illegal vehicles removed. But the ward corporator objected to this. I have asked police to find who the owners of the vehicles are, and initiate legal action against them,” he added.
 
 On the other hand, corporator Manjunath told TOI that residents had taken to parking their vehicles inside the MCC’s zonal office premises since road and drain projects were under way in their locality, leaving them no space for parking. “Since there is no place to leave our vehicles elsewhere, resident, including myself, have been parking our vehicles inside the MCC office premises. On Sunday, when Poornachandra came to work, he did not find any shade to park his car. He subsequently had the tyres deflated, and called the Abhaya team to get other private vehicles removed. When Poornachandra refused to listen to the problems of the public, I had to raise my voice. I have spoken about this to MCC commissioner Jagadeesha, and sought Poornachandra’s transfer,” Manjunath added.
 
 Jagadeesha said that he had asked both Manunath and Poornachandra to remain calm. “Since Monday is a holiday, I have informed them that the issue will be resolved by Tuesday,” the MCC commissioner said.
 
 
