NEW DELHI:   Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) started a three-day satyagraha and hunger   on Monday “to clear the lies” being spread about the university. 

 Teachers also claimed that their struggle against the arbitrary decisions to replace the chairpersons of seven schools and a dean would be taken outside the campus. 
 
 The replacement, they alleged, was done by the administration to create “compliant bodies with no room for dissent”. According to the university, the teachers were removed for failing to comply with the compulsory attendance rule.
 
 Three teachers and around a hundred students started a   on Monday. The association is trying “to expose the lies being generated by the administration in order to cover up its repeated violations of decision-making procedures”, said JNUTA secretary Sudhir Kumar Suthar. JNUTA also accused the administration of “tarnishing the image of academic excellence and agenda of social justice that the university has espoused”.
 
 Speaking at the “lockdown”, Sonia Minhz, JNUTA president, said, “The satyagraha is a challenge to the pattern of autocratic decision-making. Since 2016, we have been seeing an attempt to institutionalise inequality.”
 
 Sucheta Mahajan, one of the chairpersons to be replaced, claimed that only eight of them were targeted “because we have a high number of faculty positions advertised in our centres and the administration wants to transfer our posts to the newly announced School of Engineering and Management and want a pliant chairperson who would let them do that”.
 
 JNUTA also claimed that this replacement would change the composition of Academic Council (AC). “Earlier we would observe what would go on in AC and resist and dissent, but now no one will even witness what the administration is doing,” said Kavita Singh, the former dean of School of Arts and Aesthetics.
 
 Refuting the administration’s claim that only “a few students, teachers, JNUTA and JNUSU” are protesting, Suthar said “the administration should tell us who else is left in the campus”.
 
 
