KOLKATA:   (CU) on Thursday conferred on   the honorary   (DLitt) “for her special contribution in the field of social service and literature”, prompting the Bengal chief minister to recount her days of struggle that had “brought her to this dais”. 

 The Calcutta high court is hearing a PIL against the university’s decision; the next date of hearing is Friday. Retired vice-chancellor   has moved the Calcutta high court, along with copetitioner Abu Taleb, opposing the university’s decision. 
 
 The decision also prompted criticism from some political opponents and an emotional defence from the CM. “There are some who are born with a golden spoon and some who never have anything except neglect, disrespect and insult, which await them at every juncture of life. But one should take all this in stride as this is harsh reality,” Banerjee, while accepting the certificate, said. “A person should not be known for her lineage but should be remembered for her work. I never imagined that I would be standing on this dais today and delivering the convocation address,” she added.
 
 Banerjee referred to the “inner conflict” in accepting the honour. “I was asking Partha da (state education minister Partha Chatterjee) why he was forcing me to come here to accept this honour. I am just an insignificant student of this university but I love this institute. I am a very simple human being and believe that I am not worthy of such an honour,” she added.
 
 But she also said she felt proud that CU had decided to confer this honour on her. “My life is one of neglect and disrespect. I am being humiliated by a section even as Calcutta University is conferring this honour,” she said. “But, whatever one may say, my name is registered as a student of the university. I want to go to places where there is respect for me,” she added.
 
 Some in   and the Left Front, however, did not think highly of the university’s decision. “It speaks low of the state education system,” CPM politburo member Mohammad Selim said. Congress MLA and leader of the opposition in the Assembly Abdul Mannan said: “Her dream has finally come true. She has got more than what she had to give up after the old PhD controversy.” But Mannan’s party colleague, Omprakash Mishra, saw nothing wrong in the university’s move.
 
