SONAMURA (Tripura): The Muslims in Sonamura, who constitute 40% of the population in this constituency, are a divided lot as to which party they will vote for (BJP or Left) in the coming assembly election. 

 "We have been with the Left front but we are looking for a change now. That is why BJP is more appealing to us this time. As far as Sonamura is concerned, people are now going with BJP," said Abdul Malik, one of the many Muslims who attended Prime Minister  's election rally here on Thursday.
 
 Amid call of 'chalo paltai' (lets change) and 'bharat mata ki jai' from the crowd, Abdul and others got immersed in the slogan-shouting spree at the venue of the rally. "So far as Muslims in Tripura are concerned, there is nothing significant that we got from the Left front government.   is not capable of challenging the Left. So, BJP is the only alternative. If the state comes under BJP rule, I think development will pick up pace," said Jahidul Alam, another participant at the rally.
 
 However, a CPM supporter from the minority community said majority of Muslims in Sonamura are with the Left. He added that the Left Front's presence and penetration is strong enough to stop BJP's inroads in the constituency.
 
 The CPM, which is leading the Left Front government, is unfazed with BJP saying that the saffron party's oraganisational base in Tripura is taking roots, particularly among the Muslims. According to Left leaders, people from the minority community are wary of BJP because of violence perpetrated against Muslims in various parts of the country in the last three years.
 
 "The Muslims are aware of BJP's stand on the minority community. Muslims of Tripura are very much with the Left because they do not want the prevailing harmony to be disturbed," said CPM spokesperson Gautam Das. 
 
 BJP's Tripura incharge Sunil Deodhar said only a few people from the minority community could clear the Tripura   and   exam in 25 years of Left rule. "BJP is going to the community with the mantra 'religion is yours, development is for all," he added. 
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing a gathering at Sonamura, said India is full of diversity and respecting it will help the country progress. 
 
 
