 and her fiance,   walked down the aisle on May 19th while the world watched the two with love and affection. The adorable couple has been getting congratulatory messages from people across the globe. The royal wedding was no less than a fairy tale dream coming alive. The two tied the knot at the   Castle.

 Meghan Markle looked extremely beautiful as she flaunted her sheer grace and confidence in a Givenchy boat neck fit and flared long sleeve gown which she styled with a gorgeous long veil that had intricate embroidery on the border.
 
 The Late Late Show host and his wife were among the 600 guests invited to Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding at St. George's Chapel in Windsor. While the lucky guests at the royal wedding were having a gala time cherishing the wonderful day,   was focused on not letting a sneeze ruin a quiet moment.
 
 Corden reportedly said that he has known Prince Harry about seven years now, and it was wonderful to witness him getting married to Markle. He even added that it was one of the most beautiful ceremonies that he has ever been to and that it was gorgeous.
 
 But interestingly, Corden also spilled the beans on why he looked grumpy in a majority of the pictures. He reportedly said that in his defense what people wanted him to do. He quipped, “What do you want me to be doing, like [rocking out]?" He further added that wedding was   at its finest. It was a picture-perfect day.
 
 However, he did add what could have gone worse. He reportedly said that there were flowers everywhere—the most beautiful flowers anyone would ever see. But he went on to add that he’s quite allergic to flowers in such close proximity, so for a lot of the ceremony he just needed to sneeze. He added that few people even told him to not sneeze. 
 
 He even jokingly said that it’s even weird to imagine people attending such a beautiful ceremony that the entire planet actually wants to watch your wedding video and here he would instead be ruining it with sneezes. 
 
  
 
 
 
