NEW DELHI: A panel headed by a former CEC and comprising top international and Indian academicians will shortlist India's best higher educational institutions which will then be primed to have a shot at international glory. 

 The University Grants Commission announced on Tuesday the four-member empowered expert committee (EEC) which is being entrusted to conduct the appraisal of the applications for shortlisting the 20 institutions of eminence (IoE). N Gopalaswami, the former chief election commissioner of India, is the chairperson of the committee, which comprises Tarun Khanna, Jorge Paulo Lemman Professor, Harvard Business School; Pritam Singh, former director of IIM, Lucknow and MDI, Gurugram; and Renu Khator, chancellor, University of Houston System. The government is likely to announce the names of the selected institutions by April 2018. The committee was constituted by the   post the approval of central government as per the UGC (Institutions of Eminence Deemed to be Universities) Regulation 2017 and UGC (Declaration of Government Educational Institutions as Institutions of Eminence) Guidelines 2017. 
 
 While the government has already received 103 applications from government and private higher education institutions, the application deadline for the same was extended to February 22, 2018. The previous deadline was December 31.
 
 One of the flagship project for internationalisation of Indian campuses, the ministry of human resource development rolled out the scheme on September 2017. By March-April 2018, 20 (10 each from public and private category) institutions will be accorded the status of 'Institutions of Eminence' with a mandate to achieve world class status over a period of 10 years. As per the guidelines issued by the UGC, those institutions in the top 50 of the National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings or those who have secured ranking among top 500 of the Times Higher Education World University Rankings, QS University Rankings or Shanghai Ranking Academic Ranking of World Universities are eligible to apply.
 
 
