LUDHIANA: Adhering to the guidelines by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), affiliated schools in Ludhiana have appointed counsellors and psychologists to help students deal with exams stress and pressure. 

 BCM Arya Model School has set up a counselling cell on its campus to help students with sensitive issues like exam pressure. Three psychologists have been appointed for three batches - kindergarten, classes V-VIII and classes IX-XII.
 
 “Lives of students these days is very complicated. They sometimes can’t handle things own their own. They need help, assistance and guidance. Sometimes students hesitate to discuss problems with their parents and teachers. When a teacher notices any change in the students, we take the help of psychologists,” said principal  .
 
 “It’s important to have counsellors in school as students these days are very sensitive. We already have a counsellor in our school who assists students when needed. Peer pressure is one of the reason why we need a counsellor. Not only this, students also have personal smartphones and computers that have negative impact on them. They are always busy in that. Also, they have a lot of stress and don’t know how to manage their time. So, counsellors are required in a school to help students on emotional as well as social level in their teen years,” said  , principal of  .
 
 “As of now we have a part-time counsellor. We will have a full-time counsellor hopefully by next week. I think counsellors are required these days due to behavioural problems of students, who are not able to manage their emotions on their own. Students face from learning disabilities that go unnoticed and need to be tackled in a right way. For that we need a counsellor. When a teacher feels that the child in nursery class is facing some problem or notices some change in a student, he/she immediately puts this forth to the counsellor and then one-to-one session is conducted with the parents. From Class V onwards, counselling is done with the child only,” says Harmeet Kaur, principal of Nankana Public School.
 
 “I feel that there should be a regular counselling sessions for the students. These days there is a lot of peer pressure. Not only this, some movies and television put a negative impact on the young and impressionable minds. Counselling is required regularly to know what’s going with the students,” said  , a mother of a school-going child. 
 
 “Having a counsellor in a school is a nice way to help students with their emotional issues. Every year we hear news of students committing suicides due to exam stress. As exams are nearing, having a counsellor is very helpful,” said Neeta, another parent. 
 
 
