PATNA: Fourteen departments will exhibit their tableaux at   on 
 , showcasing social messages against child marriage and dowry and in support of prohibition.

 The women development corporation (WDC) and information and public relation department’s joint tableau is based on the theme against child marriage and dowry. “The tableau will carry a live action scene showing police raid on the groom’s family demanding dowry and involved in child marriage. The people responsible for the child marriage will be shown landing in jail,” said WDC nodal officer Purushottam Prakash. An artificial tree with a signboard informing people about the eight major government schemes for women development would also be displayed on the tableau, he said.
 
 
 
 
 The theme of the health department’s tableau is ‘Bal vivah se dur rahenge, jachcha-bachcha swasth rahenge’. “The tableau has been made as a wooden toy truck. Two girl puppets will be standing on the front. One will be giving the message of marriage only after 18 while the other is shown saying ‘no’ to child marriage. One portion of the tableau will depict a live action scene showing a girl married before the age of 18 getting pregnant and bearing an unhealthy and weak baby. Another live action scene will show the bride of 18 years and the groom of 21 getting married and making a happy and healthy family,” said state health society’s administrative officer Khalid Arshad. 
 
 Education department’s tableau will on the fight against dowry with education. Jeevika has themed its tableau on ‘Women empowerment, prosperous Bihar’.
 
 Industry department has made development of handicrafts in   as its theme while heritage structure   is the theme of art, culture and youth department.   department has focused on ‘Empowerment of panchayats through awareness of villages and wards’. 
 
 Urban development and housing department will have its tableau on ‘Har ghar nal ka jal’, ‘Har ghar tak pakki nali aur galiyan’ and toilet in each house.
 
 The tourism department’s tableau is based on ‘Mount Mandar and the progress of other areas’ while excise and prohibition department has its theme on prohibition.
 
 CCTV cameras at Gandhi Maidan 
 
 Patna DM   and SSP   reviewed the security measures in and around Gandhi Maidan on January 26. They said all the police officers and armed forces would be stationed at their marked places by 6am on Friday. It has been decided to install CCTV cameras at all the gates of Gandhi Maidan. Two video cameras will also be used near the main stage. Police officers have been asked to verify among themselves to ensure that no person impersonating as police officer enter the venue, they said.
 
 
