CHANDIGARH: For the first time after many years the UT education department has derecognised a private school owing to its anomalies in admission process. On the proposal of district education officer, director of school education has approved the withdrawal of recognition of classes XI and XII of   20, Chandigarh. The school had landed in trouble in March 2017 when Class XII students of the school did not get their roll numbers for appearing in   exams. 

  
  
 
 The education department had formed a committee and conducted an inquiry. In the letter district education officer ( ) had referred to the same committee's report and had stated that "there is total mismanagement of the record and lots of anomalies are visible in the admission process." It was also stated that the school authorities had not informed the parents of the students regarding the norms for board classes. It was further stated that, "There is malpractice found in general administration of the school." The report was submitted by the committee in 2017. It had proposed to review the recognition of the school with effect from March 31, 2018 and also to review the affiliation from  .
 
 (DEO   confirmed and said, "We had proposed that recognition be withdrawn for classes XI and XII from next academic session of 2018-19 and the director school education did so." The copy of the letter regarding the same is with TOI.
 
 A showcause notice was issued to the principal of the school and keeping the reply in view, education department had first written to CBSE to withdraw the affiliation but the Board had written back asking the education department to withdraw the recognition first. This was reported by TOI in July 2017.
 
 Thereafter, the department had again written to the school after which the DEO once again wrote to the director of school education to "withdraw the recognition of the school of senior secondary level from the current academic year (2018-19)".
 
 According to sources, the school has also been warned that if anomalies are found in Class X result this year, the school will be downgraded further to a lower level.
 
 
