Thursday mornings for   begin with an early visit to the   along with his friends. Trekking is a shared passion.

 But a tree-lined trekking trail may have been a sight to behold, if only there were no eyesores such as discarded plastic and drinking water bottles fluttering in the morning breeze.
 
 As responsible citizens,   and his friends started picking up the plastic bottles. And what started with the will of five friends has today taken the shape of a movement involving 150-200 people. Conservation group   was formed five years ago by businessmen, IT and corporate professionals.
 
 "Members visit Sinhagad Fort every Thursday and Sunday to collect waste that has been discharged carelessly within the fort and along the walking trails leading to the fort," says, Patil, a resident of Pimpri.
 
 The group's work was inspired by  , another non-governmental organisation. The announcement of the Swachha Bharat Abhiyan gave them the boost to implement the idea.
 
 "Before we started with our own initiative of cleaning the fort, we worked along with   to clean Dehugaon. We went there every week to the clean the entire town and educate people there about cleanliness. We also saw, first hand, what change consistent efforts could bring about and that encouraged us to start with the fort cleaning initiative," says Patil, who runs a tools-manufacturing company in the city.
 
 Apart from the clean-up, the members of the group also contributed to a plantation drive that was held at   by Nisarg Mitra. Approximately 200 saplings were planted at Ghoradeshwar. To make the villagers a part of the initiative they were given the responsibility of caring for the plants by watering them and keeping them pest free.
 
 "We have set up almost 40 dustbins at various locations at Sinhagad Fort. Earlier, there were hardly eight to ten dustbins. The waste collected in the bins is sent for recycling," he adds.
 
 Patil claims efforts by the group have been fruitful as littering at the fort and surrounding areas has considerably reduced.
 
 "I can say the littering has reduced by almost 50%. Apart from the installation of dustbins, the group's move to involve the vendors and shopkeepers in the initiative has contributed to the idea's success," Patil said.
 
 However, making the locals a part of the initiative was not a cakewalk. 
 
 The vendors, who had been operating there for several years, initially refused to listen to the "outsiders". "We had to befriend them over a period of time. During every festival, we took food and small gifts for them to make them feel like family. Subsequently, we were able to convince them to advise tourists to throw the waste in the bins. We also asked them to collect the waste at one location, which would make it easier for Vrukshavalli Pariwar to collect it," he said.
 
 The group's members are now planning a tree plantation drive at the fort after taking permission from the forest department. The group also plans to take inputs from environmentalists in and around the city to help them plant trees that would be suitable to the fort's terrain and the weather around the area. 
 
 When asked if the group is planning to take the initiative to other forts in the region, Patil says their aim currently is to make Sinhagad Fort a plastic-free zone. 
 
 "Once we are successful in that mission, we will take our movement to cover other forts. For now, a clean Sinhagad Fort is our aim."
 
 
