Vijayawada: It’s the season of exams, but it not deter children and youth from participating in Happy Streets in huge numbers. Hundreds of people took part in the weekly event, played fun games, participated in cultural events and cheered others.

 The TOI, along with AP Tourism, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC), and Vijayawada City Police, have been organising Happy Streets in the city at Mahatma Gandhi Road near Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium.
 
 The youths, who gathered at the venue before sunrise, participated in a special yoga session designed to help students reduce stress during the examination season. Students participated in great numbers for the yoga session. Viswateja M, a Class X, said, “Happy Streets is helping us tackle stress during examination season. This weekly event is helping us overcome examination fear. Yoga and meditation help us increase concentration.” 
 
 Home-maker A Vanaja Sri, said: “Happy streets has become a favourite weekend activity for my kids, and they eagerly wait to participate in fun games and sporting activities. Children have almost forgotten to play with their friends and classmates because of electronic gadgets, and events such as Happy Streets are helping them get some physical activity.” 
 
 ‘Bachpan Zone’ sporting activities, which include volleyball, badminton, archery, and cycling, received a huge response from adults too. P Rajendra Prasad, an advocate in the city, said, “I was a district level badminton player in my college days, and it has been almost 10 years since I stopped playing. I was very happy that I played badminton with the youths during Happy Streets, and it took me back to my college days.” 
 
 K Naveen, a techie, said: “Events like Happy Streets are adding to the fame of the city. It has become a hangout place for youths. Zumba dance with fast beat songs on the road is a thrilling experience. We hope this event will continue forever in the city as it bonds people.” 
 
 Happy Streets will be organised in the city for next 11 Sundays, from 6 am to 8.30 am on Mahatma Gandhi Road (Bandar Road), from Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium to the DCP Bungalow.
 
 
