GURUGRAM: The  , Gurugram, has referred the issue of flawed building design and “unwarranted” construction of a tennis court in the green area of  ,  , to the senior town planner (STP). 

 The move has come as a relief to residents who are miffed with the builder for turning the green area in front of E Tower into a tennis court and have been complaining of seepage of water into the basement of D Tower and subsequent weakening of pillars on which their apartment stand.
 
 In a letter to residents, the DTP has informed, “Your complaint is being forwarded to the STP for examination... The complaints of falling of plaster due to weak structure and other issues are being forwarded to the builder for comments.” 
 
 Residents of Tower D have been reeling under the fear that the pillars on which their apartment building stand could collapse any time as water is seeping out from the ceiling of its basement over which a garden is spread. “The issue has been pending for one-and-a-half years. We began noticing seepage at many places in the basement. We constantly wrote about it to the developer. Finally, nearly three months ago, the builder sent a team to fix the issue. But we are still grappling with this problem,” said Singh, adding, “We are now realising that it must be a design flaw because we keep fixing one seepage after the other and yet they eventually show up.”
 
 Residents have also alleged that the builder did not ask for their permission for a tennis court in an area marked as a green belt in the original brochure they got during purchase of the property in 2013. “For the past three years, they have been constructing this tennis court on what was supposed to be a green area in front of my house,” said  , a resident of E Tower.
 
 Residents said the tennis court, along with the badminton and basketball courts, was meant to be built in another area. “However, the builder turned that area into an open parking and is planning to sell it off and the tennis court is being built in the green area. When we enquired about it, the builder said the township would still have the amount of green area mentioned in the brochure. But how can they make this arbitrary re-alignment without taking our consent?” asked  , another resident.
 
 Somika Chandhok, another resident, who filed a petition in the matter with the NGT in January 2017, said, “We kept going from one authority to another but to no avail. We want the RWA, which is still with the builder, to restore the green area.”
 
 TOI tried to contact GPL maintenance head Sunil Sahai who did not return calls. 
 
 GPL Eden Heights is spread over 11 acres and has nearly 580 units with nine towers.
 
 
 
