VIJAYAWADA: The   ( ) is planning to come up with end-to-end   soon. The state owned corporation which is facing serious financial troubles is now searching for new sources of revenue. 

 Until now, the APSRTC was offering only point-to-point logistic services which means that both the sender and the receiver have to go to nearest bus station of the business facilitators to send or receive their packages. This was a problem for the APSRTC as people were opting for private operators providing end-to-end services.The APSRTC bosses have decided to expand the present point-to-point logistic services to end-to-end with the help of new technology and by taking delivery service providers on board. 
 
  
 The APSRTC has large connectivity across the state including the rural areas. To make full use of its connectivity, the APSRTC is going to take the delivery service providers on board. Tenders are going to be called soon inviting the interested players to associate with the end to end logistics services. 
 
 The APSRTC is planning to start end-to-end service from May onwards. The state run corporation is also planning to expand its logistic services base. 
 
 The deputy chief traffic managers (Dy CTM) were asked to go to industries, commercial organisations and markets to explore the opportunities to increase logistics revenue. Executive director (ED) Vijayawada, A Ramakrishna told that a detailed market study is being conducted to capture the market. Many people do not know about the logistic services of APSRTC. The field visits by Dy CTMs is to identify new markets as well as to make people aware about the faster services being provided he added.
 
 Presently the APSRTC is generating about Rs 4 cr average revenue per month through point-to-point services. “We are expecting Rs 10 cr revenue from logistics by providing last mile services,” said a senior official in the APSRTC. 
 
 Transportation of food products which have famed in a particular area and has demand all over the state like Tapeswaram Kaja, Bandar Laddu, Atreyapuram Putarekulu, pickles from Vijayawada, cashew nuts from Srikakulam and other agro-products which needs faster delivery are being targeted by the APSRTC to improve its revenue.
 
 
