NAGPUR: A week after the Kohchade scam came back into focus, following expose of Sunil Mishra’s alleged bogus mark sheets, Nagpur University is all set to lodge a police complaint against him on Tuesday. Along with him, NU will also name then Board of Examination (BOE) members for being part of the alleged conspiracy to save the CIIMC director.

 Confirming the development, vice chancellor VC Kane said the decision to lodge a complaint was already taken, so the roots of the controversy were revealed, which may reopen a can of worms. “We were waiting for the legal opinion. The lawyers have said NU administration and VC are authorized to take action as per probe panel’s report. The complaint would also mention role of BOE members, who failed to apply their mind before accepting Mishra’s proposal to surrender his bogus mark sheets, thus becoming a part of the conspiracy,” Kane told TOI.
 
 The VC also clarified the confusion among top NU officials on who will formally lodge the complaint with Sitabuldi police station. He said   (BOEE) director Neeraj Khaty would officially file the complaint while registrar Puran Meshram and other top NU officials would accompany him.
 
 Even the preliminary probe against   was conducted by Khaty on VC’s directives. There was confusion among NU officials on who would bell the cat, as no one wanted to go against Mishra, who is well known for filing a flood of   queries against officials.
 
 The VC charged the former BOE members with blindly accepting Mishra’s proposal, along with that of Pradip Motiram Rathod, who according to him was a “dummy candidate”. “Investigations revealed a shocking lapse on the part of BOE members, who allowed his proposal to surrender his MA (Sociology) first year mark sheet on the basis of his letter. However, his results had been withheld by NU at that time for simultaneously appearing in MA Political Science second-year exam. The BOE members failed to even take the pains to verify this fact, thus giving rise to suspicion of their alleged involvement,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 NU has convened an emergent meeting of the   on Tuesday, where it will place the probe panel report of retired industrial court judge BC Chandrikapure. “The report is about scholarship scam in Mishra’s CIIMC. The panel was constituted on the basis of host of student complaints. The MC members would decide next course of action against CIIMC and its director,” the VC told TOI, adding that NU had already frozen CIIMC’s admissions, and would soon start its disaffiliation process.
 
 TOI had on December 8 reported how aggrieved CIIMC students approached VC with a demand to lodge police complaint against Mishra, accusing him of not handing over transfer certificates (TCs), and not depositing their exam fees with NU, which led to their results and degrees being withheld.
 
 
