CHENNAI: Here’s a shocker. Nearly half the students in four   departments, a majority of them having scored more than 90% in the Class XII board exams, failed the semester test in November-December 2017.

 The students are from  ,   and School of Architecture & Planning, all on the Guindy campus, and Madras Institute of Technology (MIT), Chromepet.
 
 Several students, requesting anonymity, cited the change in examination and evaluation patterns among the reasons for such a high failure rate.
 
 In 2014-15, the university introduced a Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) and relative grading, dispensing with minimum pass mark. Under the system, the highest score in a class was taken as the baseline and grades awarded to others based on this.
 
 
 
 
 
 The overall pass percentage increased, but standards came down as even those with single-digit scores of 100 managed to secure top grades.
 
 In one instance, sources said, students discussed among themselves the night before an exam and came to an understanding that none would score above 10. As a result, even those with scores less than five got top grades.
 
 In the 2017-18 academic year, the university reverted to the old practice and set 50 % as the minimum pass mark for all university departments. Unable to adapt to this change quickly, many failed in the  .
 
 The overall pass percentage came down drastically, from 80% in 2016-17 to nearly 60%. Among them, students of the Schoolof Architecture and Planning fell behind terribly, with less than 20% of the second and third year managing to pass. Besides, some students said, limiting the number of courses a student can reappear for in a particular year has left many sceptical about finishing the course on time.
 
 Each student takes on five or six lecture (maximum four credit (score) points) courses and a lab course (maximum two credit points) a semester and can . register for a maximum of 32 credits.
 
 “Of this, nearly 22 credits are consumed by current semester courses and we have only 10 points for reappearance (formerly called arrears). This means we can reappear for a maximum of three papers at a time,” a student from MIT told TOI, requesting anonymity.
 
 “With many students failing in four or more papers this year, how can the university expect us to clear all backlogs on time so that we can attend campus placements,” he said.
 
