LUDHIANA: The  ,   and   of an 8-year-old girl in   district has horrified and shaken the entire nation. This is another case that has sparked conflict across the country. 

 City residents have been protesting in the light of the rape case and have also taken out candle march. People have expressed shame over the existing evils in society and over not being able to make their women safe. “I feel so ashamed that I share a society with such evils. The rate of rape incidents has increased,” said Amneet Kaur (22), a resident of Model Town. 
 
 People are feeling ashamed after the Kathua rape case. “Today, we have failed as a nation and humans,” said Monika Bhandari, a resident of Civil Lines.
 
 While some people are calling it a symptom of oppression. “The eight-year-old Kathua rape victim is a symbol of oppression, injustice, inequality, organized religion, sexism, and patriarchy—all manifested in our daughters’ bodies,” said Kanika Sharma, a resident of  .
 
 “It’s sad that in our standard of living, the term ‘rape’ has been brought into common usage. The defence says that we should educate people to curb rape culture. Well, even the educated masses commit rape. India is a country where if you want to put something in public’s mind, you have to do it by force, instead of posts and letters and candles. The most shameful thing a man can do is, rape a girl to fulfil his lust,” said   (24), a resident of New Model Town.
 
 It’s imperative that we understand the intersectionality of this crime but it’s also important to understand that rape permeates through social constructs. Rape is a crime of power. The easiest way to look at this would be based on facts that we live in a country where a young girl was brutally raped, drugged and killed in a temple. I realize and understand that crime has a social context. The death penalty is not a solution and statistically not even a deterrent. The death penalty will not change this very mentality that we need to change. As we progress economically and politically as a nation, the world and India are becoming a increasingly unsafe for women. These constructs, however were something the eight-year-old victim wouldn’t know of and understand. I can’t seem to understand what sort of monstrosity it takes to subject anybody to such brutality,” said Nandini Sharma, a resident of Sarabha Nagar. 
 
 “Boys need to be taught that they don’t entitle a woman’s body,” Said Himanshi Nayyar (25), another resident of Sarabha Nagar.
 
 “ I can’t stand the fact that I am not safe even when I am trying to be where I live. People do so much in the name of religion and this is just disgraceful. Girls are not allowed to enter a temple when they are on their period but, it’s fine to rape an 8-year-old girl inside a temple,” said  , a resident of Dugri.
 
 People are also signing online petitions to seek death penalty of the murderers. “I am signing the petition because I want justice. I want India to change.” 
 
 
