AHMEDABAD: On the lines of the exit examination for the MBBS, the   (PCI) has approached the health ministry for approval to introduce an exit examination for students of the two-year pharmacy diploma. The exit examination will be required for a registrable qualification.

 B Suresh, president of PCI, who was in the town addressed a series of meetings with principals and directors of pharmacy colleges and representatives of chemist and druggist associations of Gujarat at   (GTU). Suresh said the council feels that student who clear their two-year diploma examination should be registered with PCI only after they clear an examination. He said this was required to improve the quality of pharmacy education.
 
 The chairman said the exit examination will be online and will be implemented from this academic session. “To meet the growing requirements of practical knowledge and to overcome problems faced by Indian pharmacy graduates in practising the pharmacy profession in foreign countries, the PCI has approached the health ministry for approval of the exit examination,” he said.
 
 He further said that PCI envisages a need to set up  , jointly by PCI and the pharma Industry as centres of excellence which will produce high quality pharmacists to suit industry requirements. A committee of experts has been constituted to frame an action plan for making the proposed   a reality.
 
 Addressing a meeting, he said “We are uploading and verifying data and from next year, everything under pharma education will be made available online. Details of faculty members will work like a passport. Whenever any professor changes an institute a specific number will help to identify the faculty member. Some details will be variable and can be changed after such migration.”
 
 “Even though pharmacy colleges are regulated by PCI, the syllabus is according to university requirements. A uniform syllabus all over India is needed and we are working in that direction. We are also trying to introduce the latest subjects like 3D printing and nanotechnology,” said Suresh.
 
 He added, “Although inspections and approvals will remain, we will ensure that no institute will suffer due to regulatory actions.”
 
 
