To contain the damage caused to river ecosystems as a result of illegal and indiscriminate  , southern states have already geared up to import sand from overseas. While Puducherry chief minister   recently discussed about sourcing sand from Malaysia with his cabinet and officials last week, neighbouring   has similar plans on the cards. 

 But, unlike its southern neighbours,  , one of the most urbanised states in the country, seems to have failed to tap the potential of imported sand to overcome the acute shortage of the key construction material, which is crippling its construction sector. Attempts by private players to import sand has been stonewalled with the state government announcing stringent guidelines that make the public works department the sole authorised agency to sell imported sand.
 
 Recently, Malaysian river sand bound for   was diverted to Mangaluru after Tamil Nadu government’s guidelines made it virtually impossible for the consigner to offload the shipment. The key construction material was of superior quality that was proposed to be sold at a reasonable price. Sources associated with shipping agencies say the river sand ferried from the east coast of Malaysia was used for constructing about 200 high-rises in the Southeast Asian country.
 
 "It was fine sand that would have suited the construction needs of the state. The consigner was offering to sell the sand at `2,500 per metric tonne, which was cheaper when compared to the sand that is being sold in the Tamil Nadu market," a source says. Now, the vessel carrying 58,616 tonnes of river sand would be marketed in Karnataka. "It will be the second time the consigner will import sand to Mangaluru. The first was on January 7," says the source, under condition of anonymity. The importer is waiting for the Karnataka government’s nod to transport the sand out of the port.
 
 Sources in Tamil Nadu’s construction sector say the state has missed an opportunity in importing sand, which could have come in handy to slash the skyrocketing cost of sand, meeting the shortage of the key construction material and protecting river sources from over exploitation.
 
 Developers in Tamil Nadu say diversion of sand was unfortunate as it has come at a time when the state was facing acute shortage of sand, pushing the prices of the key construction material to a new high. While the government is promoting M Sand, builders face practical difficulties in using the alternate for river sand. While in some cases quarry dust is sold as M Sand, supply of the alternate sand variety doesn’t meet the demand in the construction sector, say experts. 
 
 Confederation of   Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) Chennai chapter president   say that exporters in Malaysia are ready to supply quality sand to Tamil Nadu at much cheaper rates. "Quality river sand imported from Malaysia could be made available at `100 per cubic feet, which is less by nearly `50 compared to sand scooped from our quarries. We could have got the sand for construction purposes at 40% lesser rates, but Tamil Nadu has missed an opportunity," he says.
 
 The Builders’ Association of India’s Southern Centre, Chennai observes that individuals have become victims of shortage for sand. Its honorary secretary   charges that inadequate sand has led to distribution of adulterated sand. "With the sand prices skyrocketing a section of individuals, who are constructing their houses are falling prey to the adulterated sand," he says.
 
 Against the backdrop of efforts by Karnataka and Puducherry to import sand, associations in the construction sector have demanded the Tamil Nadu government to take a cue from neighbouring states. Panneerselvam, president of the Federation of Tamil Nadu Sand Lorry Owners Coordination says that the government can directly import sand and market it in the state. "But, authorities must ensure the quality and price," he adds.
 
 
