GURUGRAM: They were due to perform in the UK on Sunday night but the   chose to stay back for an engagement with Gurugram. For a third straight year, ‘The Sufis of Nizamuddin’ left a city audience, sat out under the stars at the Aravalli Biodiversity Park, mesmerised.

 For Rathin Mathur, the man whose labour of love it has been to bring the magic of   to Gurugram, the dargah, its music and its humanism, is a spiritual and national treasure. “They who can’t go to Nizamuddin, we’ll bring Nizamuddin to them,” Mathur never tires of saying. Gurugram, the city of millennials, has formed an enduring bond with the steeped-in-mysticism vibe of the dargah of Mehboob-e-Elahi.
 
 Incidentally, the qawwali that is heard and enjoyed today was once, for many centuries, only heard in the ‘khanqahs’ (shrines, from the Persian) of South Asia. Thus, has it come to be known as the Khanqahi Qawwali. But taking it out of the shrine has in no way robbed it of its sacred energy. If anything, it has made many devotees out of it, and out of the philosophy that is its beating heart, Sufism.
 
 On Sunday, when the heat of the day had given way to a cool breeze becoming of a spring evening, Ghulam Sabir and Ghulam Waris Nizami, and their ensemble of fellow qawwals and instrumentalists, opened their hearts to the gathered, singing of the love that Sufi saint-poets like Amir Khusro and Fariduddin Ganjshakar (Baba Farid) articulated so persuasively all those centuries ago.
 
 Classic qawwalis, delivered with the full-throated vigour qawwals are celebrated for, held even the nonbeliever spellbound. But if one listened as if in prayer (or in a trance), you could intuit a vein of classicism with which the Nizami Brothers had imbued these songs of devotion. And that is when the soul twined with the music. And, of course, no night would be complete without Ghulam Sabir and Ghulam Waris declaiming, memorably and wittily, about the omnipresence of love.
 
 ‘The Sufis of Nizamuddin’ demonstrated yet again that the popularity of this form of devotional music, as soaked in the spiritual traditions of this land as any, is unlikely to fade from hearts and minds. For, in a world that often seems as if it has lost its soul, the soulful renditions of Hindustan’s qawwals offer a sanctuary, a place to escape from the troubles of our times.
 
 Certainly,   would be happy that the language of love continues to be embraced so joyfully.
 
 
