NAGPUR: The ghost of the infamous Kohchade scam has come back to haunt   in the form of Sunil Mishra’s bogus mark sheets. Vice chancellor SP Kane said, on Tuesday, NU will lodge a police complaint, and also probe the role of former officials in accepting the mark lists.

 TOI had on April 9 first exposed the then Board of Examination’s (BOE) allegedly “illegal” decision to accept Mishra’s bogus mark sheets, even though his case was pending with the special court investigating the “bogus mark sheets and revaluation scam” that rocked NU in 1998-99.
 
 TOI’s news report was based on RTI Activist Ankita Shah’s queries to NU about minutes of BOE meeting of November 13, 2006, which accepted Mishra’s offer to surrender his mark sheets of LLB Part I (1995), Part II (2000) and Part III (2000). Two months later,   was convicted for cheating and forgery and awarded 12 years and six months of rigorous imprisonment along with fine of Rs42,000. His conviction was later upheld by the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on July 3, 2008, but his jail term was reduced to six months after he pleaded that he had already surrendered his mark sheets.
 
 The BOE, under then VC SN Pathan and pro-VC GS Parasher, had never bothered to enquire how Mishra submitted his mark sheets when they had been seized by the courts, said Kane.
 
 It has come to fore that Mishra didn’t submit mark sheets of 1995, 1996 and winter 1998 exam of LLB I, II and III, where he was failed, to then BOE. He only submitted duplicate mark list No 87 for roll no. 1535 of 1995 attempt, along with that of 2000, where he didn’t appear in any of the papers.
 
 After TOI’s expose, the VC directed BOEE director Neeraj Khaty to place all documents related to BOE’s 2006 meeting before him, while attaching TOI’s report. “The director, however, couldn’t go deep into the matter due to limitations. We, therefore, handed over the probe to our administration, which roped in noted lawyer   to help them. He recently submitted a report strongly recommending an FIR against Mishra,” Kane said.
 
 During Tuesday’s meeting, however, the BOEE couldn’t take any decision against Mishra, as Humanities dean   pointed out that it was out of the purview of the apex examination body, since the case was not related to any exam. The VC tried his best to convince the members in a 45 minute speech, but the members were reluctant to move ahead over Komawar’s concerns.
 
 “The members then suggested granting all powers to the VC to take a decision, so I asked them to empower the administration. All of them unanimously came to the conclusion that the issue is serious and sensitive, and detailed investigations would be needed to get to the roots. We would also be taking legal opinion,” Kane said.
 
 Denying all the allegations, Mishra told TOI that the court had only seized record of tabulation register, and original mark sheets were with him. “I’ve even verified my mark sheet by paying Rs100 to NU. The VC should have properly investigated the issue. But I thank him for reopening the Kohchade scam, where 108 other accused were acquitted in collusion with NU officials. Now, I will bring their cases to the fore as well along with other scams,” he warned.
 
 
