HYDERABAD:The free   order that became effective from April 1 applies to all commercial establishments and institutional buildings including single screen cinema theatres and hospitals across the state, clarified the municipal administration department on Tuesday.

 
 
  
 
 
 The clarifiation came in the wake of few commercial establishments, particularly single screen theatres and hospitals, continuing to levy parking fee. In a press release, the department directed the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and urban local bodies to initiate necessary penal action against violators as per the relevant municipal Acts.
 
  department had issued a GO on March 20, 2018 directing multiplexes and malls not to collect parking free from any visitor for the first 30 minutes and no fee up to one hour if the visitor produces a copy of the bill as proof of shopping or movie ticket in multiplexes.   rule came into effect on April 1across the state.
 
 Arvind Kumar, MAUD principal secretary, tweeted on Tuesday that despite the GO, some malls, institutions, theatres, hospitals and multiplexes have been collecting parking fee . While some theatres and hospitals said the orders are not applicable to them, some commercial complexes said they have not received any orders. Some multiplexes started collecting parking fee outside their premises through their contracting agencies.
 
 Arvind Kumar said as per the New Building Rules issued in 2012, adequate off street parking space would have to be provided by the owners of commercial establishments, malls and multiplexes to meet the demand generated by the employees and visitors. He asked the civic bodies to take a serious view if there is any violation of the government orders.
 
 “Visitors will have to show valid documents such as tickets and out-patient slips in case of hospitals to the building owners and managements. People can bring any violation to the notice of deputy commissioners, zonal commissioners and GHMConline,” the principal secretary said.
 
