MUMBAI: With two more witnesses refuting the prosecution's case on Monday, 35 of 53 witnesses called so far have been declared hostile in the trial on the alleged fake encounter of  .

 The two latest witnesses denied the suggestion that they were deposing falsely to protect the accused. The two were panch witnesses whose statements were recorded in connection with articles recovered from Shaikh's body after his death in 2005. 
 
 In alleged statements made before the   in 2010, the duo had said that on November 26, 2005, they had visited a temple at Ahmedabad and while returning home, were stopped by a person near the Gujarat anti-terror squad (ATS)'s office. They were told that the body of a person was sent for post mortem and certain items were found on him. The items were required to be seized in their presence. The witnesses had told CBI that there were then taken to the ATS office where policemen including the accused, NH Dhabi, were present. They said they were told that Sohrabuddin was killed in a police encounter early that morning. 
 
 Among the articles found on Sohrabuddin which were produced for seizure, they said Dhabi, an inspector with the ATS, showed them seven live cartridges. Each was valued at Rs 100. In addition, there were 92 notes of Rs 500 amounting to Rs 46,000, a necklace valued at Rs 5,000, a railway ticket from Surat to Ahmedabad, two visiting cards including one of Shaikh, Shaikh's driving license and a mobile phone. 
 
 In court on Monday, the first of the two witnesses identified only one article, a train ticket. The second too identified the same ticket, and then looked at the necklace presented by the prosecution and said it was similar to one shown to him at the time of the seizure in 2005. 
 
 The duo, however, did not identify Dhabi who was present in court. The second witness also denied that the name of the dead person was disclosed to him. He said he did not remember if the other articles were shown to him. With the duo partially retracting on their earlier statements to the CBI, the prosecution moved the court to declare them hostile. The defence declined to cross-examine the duo. 
 
 However, a third witness, an onlooker from the scene of the crime where Sohrabuddin's body lay after he was shot, stuck to his earlier statement. A panch witness, he deposed on the point of articles recovered from the scene including soil, a bike and a revolver. While he identified the soil and revolver presented by the prosecution, he described the bike. The defence did not dispute the identification of the bike. 
 
