NEW DELHI:   president   promised to give a “new, shining” Congress with a vision on Monday even as he accused Modi government of abetting religious hatred in the country and failing to create jobs for the ever increasing entrants in the job market.

 In his first trip abroad after taking over the reins of AICC, 
  that Congress was not an ordinary institution but a party which had beaten the British out of the country. “I assure you that Congress has the power to defeat   in 2019 elections,” he said in response to a question from the audience.
 
 While saying he accepted his mistakes, the Gandhi scion said Congress was active on the ground and BJP had “barely scraped through in its stronghold of Gujarat” in recent polls. “We may be fighting BJP but our focus is to provide a vision for India. If we give a new Congress party to India, it is not a big task to defeat the BJP… We are working on it. You will see dramatic change in Congress and you will see leaders you can have trust in,” he said. Rahul sought six months to reinvent Congress, saying the party had the faces and “we will give you a new shining Congress”.
 
 
  
  
 
 Targeting the Modi regime, Rahul said BJP government’s “signaling was wrong” which was encouraging violence in the name of religion and cultural differences. “The starting point is what is in your heart, ‘neeyat’. I cannot even imagine an India where all our people do not feel part of India. So the starting point is that you believe that everybody, regardless of religion or status, is Indian… now, when there is violence or somebody is threatened, there is a silence.
 
 There should not be silence, government should make its position clear,” he said. As in Berkeley during his US trip, Rahul said the twin challenges facing India were rise in sectarianism and failure of the government to create jobs. He alleged BJP was diverting the anger among the youth over joblessness towards religious hatred.
 
 The Congress chief said China was creating 50,000 jobs every day while India was creating only 400, adding that job creation was at an eight-year low while new investments were lowest in 13 years. He said Indian diaspora had lost hard-earned money because of policies like demonetisation.
 
 
 
 
