VADODARA/ANAND: All eyes in Gujarat’s dairy sector are set on the board meeting at Anand-headquartered Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation ( ) – the apex marketing body that markets Amul products - where elections for chairman and vice-chairman’s posts are scheduled on Monday. 

 It was in August 2015 that amidst hectic politicking Sabar Dairy’s chairman Jetha Patel had got elected as GCMMF’s chairman. The 2015 election for the chairmanship had split the dairy sector in two camps as Panchmahals-based Panchamrut Dairy’s chief Jetha Bharwad had staked his claim for the post with the support of chairmen of dairy unions mainly from Saurashtra. 
 
 Later in December 2015, as part of compromise formula, Bharwad, the BJP MLA from Shehra, was unanimously elected as the first vice-chairman of GCMMF as the board members had brought in a change in its bye-laws to create the special post for the first time since its inception in 1973. 
 
 The election on Monday will be held as the two-and-a half years tenure of Jetha Patel is coming to an end. But unlike the earlier elections, this time, heads of all the 18 district dairy unions in the state, who are board members in the federation, have their affiliation with BJP which is in power both at centre and in the state. 
 
 A day before Monday’s board meeting, chairmen of 15 out of 18 milk unions attended a meeting at Gandhinagar where senior BJP leaders Kaushik Patel and Bhupendrasinh Chudasama took “sense” from the co-operative leaders. Chairmen of three milk unions including Baroda Dairy, Valsad Dairy and Rajkot Dairy however did not attend the meeting citing pre-occupation due to personal reasons. 
 
 Sources sid Mehsana-based Dudhsagar Dairy’s chairman Asha Thakor did stake her claim for the top post. Thakor is considered as protégé of   strongman Vipul Chaudhary, who had to relinquish his post after fighting ugly legal battles with the state government, . 
 
 TOI has learnt that in presence of the two BJP leaders, Thakor stressed that a female board member should get a chance to head the federation. 
 
 The final decision on whether to bring in a change on the posts or repeat the two ‘Jethas’ now lies with BJP national president Amit Shah who has kept his cards close to his chest. 
 
 “Everybody will accept the decision that the party takes,” said a senior dairy chairman, adding that the party will issue its mandate an hour before the meeting. 
 
 All the 18 heads of milk unions are scheduled to reach Amul Dairy’s premises at around 11 am – an hour before the board meeting in which GCMMF’s managing director and district co-operative registrar will remain present. 
 
 The elections this time however are being held in the backdrop of the recently concluded Gujarat assembly polls where the big guns of the sector had to taste defeat. 
 
 Traditionally, heads of top dairy unions of Gujarat – Banas, Sabar, Amul and Mehsana – are considered to be the strongest contenders for the top post. 
 
 Both Banas Dairy’s chairman Shankar Chaudhary and Amul Dairy’s chairman Ramsinh Parmar (who had left Congress to join the saffron fold ahead of the state assembly elections) were considered to be front-runners in the race for GCMMF’s chairmanship. 
 
 Shankar Chaudhary, who heads Gujarat’s largest dairy and thereby enjoys the largest number of votes in eventuality of an election, however had lost the state assembly polls from Vav seat. 
 
 Parmar, senior-most amongst all the dairy chairmen, had also lost the poll battle from Thasra. 
 
 Sources suggest that BJP’s top brass will take the decision keeping in mind the impending Lok Sabha polls next year. 
 
 
