KOLKATA: Arrival of green piped gas in the households of the City of Joy is no more a pipe dream. 

  (GCGSCL), a state PSU for gas distribution, has bagged licence from Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board (PNGRB) for supplying gas to Kolkata and five adjacent districts - North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas,  , Hooghly and Nadia. This was disclosed by state commerce and industries minister   at the Assembly.
 
 The state gas firm has 458-km-long pipeline in the city and adjacent areas covering Kolkata, both 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly. It is now supplying gas to some parts of central and east Kolkata and total number of consumers is around 15,000-16,000. Later, Mitra said that GCGSCL has got permission for supplying gas to 14.2 lakh homes in the state. "This is a huge breakthrough we shall for us," he added. 
 
 According to him, Gail has evinced interest to supply piped gas to 2 lakh homes in the begining by forming a JV with the state gas utility. Gail has already undertaken a project to set up gas pipeline from Jagdishpur to Haldia which would pass through Bokaro and Dhamra port. "Gail has indicated that supply of gas through this pipeline will be initiated from end of 2020," Mitra added. 
 
 He also indicated that besides Gail, the state is exploring other avenues of green fuel as well.   and   have started production of coal bed methane (CBM) in Asansol-Durgapur belt but the quantum is still not enough to bring it to Kolkata. A Hiranandani Group firm is also planning to set up an offshore LNG terminal near Digha coast to bring gas to Bengal and other eastern states. The total investment in the project will be over Rs 1,200 crore in the first phase, which is likely to scale up to Rs 7,000 crore in the next few years.
 
 Hiranandani had earlier said that the group is planning to build and operate a world-class floating storage re-gasification unit with the ultimate capacity of six million tonne per annum. This unit will gasify liquid gas. He was confident that in two years from now Kolkata will get clean gas.
 
 Hiranandanis would supply gas for city gas network as well as for transport in two years. In the second phase, it is planning to roll out city gas distribution in four other cities - Durgapur, Asansol, Haldia and Siliguri, he added.
 
 
