 surprised everyone when she revealed her marital status in January this year — that she tied the knot with longtime boyfriend   Thakker in   in 2015. Most actresses are known to settle down in marriage after making it big in showbiz, but Surveen chose to follow her heart and take the plunge early on in her career.
Talking about her marriage for the first time since it was announced, the actress says that nothing has changed in life since. “In fact, it has gotten only better,” says Surveen, asking, “Why does it shock people that I got married? Those days are gone when an actress would achieve her professional goals first and then get married. Many actresses achieve great professional heights even after marriage now. Just because I was perceived as a go-getter and an ambitious person, it did not mean that I had no intention of getting married if I found the right guy. Marriage and career are not interrelated and people should understand that. Just like any professional woman who continues to work after her marriage, an actress should not wait when she finds the right guy.” Surveen, however, stresses on the importance of understanding and compatibility with the partner before taking the plunge. 
 Known for her bold and confident outlook, Surveen confesses that she was reluctant to get married at first. “I had gone through many ups and downs in my relationships, so I was quite reluctant to get married untill I was 
 doubly sure of the person. Besides, it is also a question of hormones, so it is only right that you get married at the right age.” She adds that she is in a happy space with her husband. “I could kiss my co-actor or even go nude on screen, I can do whatever the 
 script demands in a film and my husband will not say anything about it. That’s the kind of understanding I have with him. When I have this kind of comfort level with him, why would I wait to get married? My husband is supportive of my work and I got a companion for life, what more can a woman ask for?”
 She continues, “Marriage is a natural progression for any man or woman and if you find a partner who only enhances your life, I don’t think actresses should wait. When I get a good film project, it is Akshay who says, ‘Go for it’. That’s what partnership is all about. Today, many actresses get married, have babies and make a comeback. The perception with married actresses is changing and it will change further in the future.”
  who was last seen on the show '24' on TV, will be part of the soon-to-be-aired Copy, one of Sujoy Ghosh’s three short features, 'Teen Paheliyan'. She, however, has no intention of returning to daily soaps. “Kabhi bhi nahi. When it comes to TV, I worry about the content as it tends to get regressive. If it is a film project like the one I have done, then it would be interesting. More than the platform, I think the content plays an important role in accepting a project,” she elaborates. 
 The actress also adds that bagging films projects is not easy at all. She says, “It is a game of patience. I was bombarded with erotic films after Hate Story, but then you have to be choosy about your work. And for God’s 
 sake, a kiss on screen does not mean that you are only doing erotic films.”
 The actress, who has never minced words, feels every individual must strive for better things. She says, “I wanted to do bigger and better things. In fact, I am on the way to achieving my goals slowly and marriage has only made my life more beautiful.”
 
