CHENNAI: The central government seeking two weeks more to put in place a   has evoked strong reactions from the state government as well as political parties in Tamil Nadu, with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami stating that the government is taking all steps to safeguard the state's interest in Cauvery. "We have approached the Supreme Court already and we will not give up our rights to anyone. We will seek proper direction from the apex court," Palaniswami told reporters in Salem on Friday, on Centre seeking two more time to work out the   scheme. 

 Earlier in Chennai, senior minister D Jayakumar termed it as unfortunate and condemnable and the one that caused anguish. "We will express strong objections before the court," he said, hours after the BJP government filed the petition.
 
 The Supreme Court in its February 16 verdict ordered the Centre to come up with a scheme in two months. On a contempt plea moved by the Tamil Nadu government against the failure of the Centre to act within the time prescribed, the bench led by Chief Justice Dipak Misra directed the Centre to file a draft scheme before the court on May 3.
 
 Stating that delta was in distress due to non-availability of the Cauvery water, Jayakumar said the state government would not allow the Centre to delay any further. "The court has confirmed the tribunal award that ordered management board and water regulation committee to implement the orders. The chief minister will consult with legal experts and take further course of action. This delay is unnecessary," he told reporters.
 
  The minister said the government was confident of getting justice from the court and establish the state's rights in the inter-state river.
 
 Dubbing the Centre's move as betrayal to the state, DMK working president M K Stalin said it only proved the Centre's intention is to not set up the board.
 
  "Every Tamil gets to know the anti-Tamil policies of the Centre, which ignores the final award of the tribunal and that of the court order but keeps in mind the political gains in election-bound  . Time will soon come where the Centre will understand that people of Tamil Nadu and farmers are not fools," the DMK leader said. He took a dig at deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam for siding with the Centre and telling to "wait till the court deadline ends."
 
 PMK leader S   said the move only exposed the "evil intention" of the Modi government, as the latter feared defeat in Karnataka polls slated for May 12. "If the draft scheme is not submitted before May 3, water release for Kuruvai crop cannot be made. Farmers will be affected extensively," he said. 
 
 
