TRICHY: As absence of leisure centres were frequently cited as a letdown for the landlocked city,   in its budget for the fiscal year 2018-19 has emphasised on constructing new parks and renovating existing ones. Expenditure projected in the budget saw a 43 per cent hike against the expenditures in the previous budget. The Urban Local Body ( ), tabling its second consecutive budget in the absence of elected representatives, has projected a surplus budget of Rs 83 lakhs. 

 Going by the figures, the total revenue in the fiscal is expected to be at Rs 494.62 crores against the expenditure estimated at Rs 493.79 crores. Stating that the civic body was particular in tabling a realistic budget, official sources said that the ULB was not interested in giving a fancy and unrealistic promise in its budget for the people. “We are expecting more funds to flow from state and central governments that were expected to reach us earlier. Hence the expenditure as well as income in the new budget has been hiked. Improving recreational facilities was one of the main aspects of the budget tabled,” corporation commissioner   told TOI.
 
 Among the works prioritised for commencement in the fiscal, corporation has listed commencing the works for phase-II Underground Drainage System (UGDS) works which would cover around 43,000 houses in 25 wards. “At an estimated cost of Rs 2.64 crores under   scheme, 4 new parks in the city are being established. At Rs1 crore from general funds, four existing parks will be renovated. Similarly from AMRUT funds, new parks will be opened at an estimated cost of Rs 2.53 crores,” the commissioner added. Trichy Corporation in its budget has also assured to commence the works for smart city project both under Area Based Development (ABD) and pan city works. Two new commercial complexes in   and near   police station are planned by the civic body respectively to generate revenue. Besides, other activities such as monetising the corporation properties including sanitary complexes have made the civic body to table a surplus budget for 2nd consecutive term.
 
 
