BHOPAL: After playing Mamaji and  , chief minister   on Monday donned another hat. This time, it was of a career counsellor. Interacting with students, the chief minister exhorted students to take up a career of their choice.

 
 When a student inquired about becoming a politician,   cited example of Prime Minister  . “If chai wala (tea seller) can become prime minister and if a person from an ordinary family can become chief minister of Madhya Pradesh then nothing can stop you from pursuing a career in politics,” the chief minister replied to the student during live counselling session.
 
 He also spoke about drawbacks of political career saying that “politics looks attractive from outside. But inside, it is not so. One has to be upright to face allegations and lies,” he said. Chouhan was addressing students of Class 12 during the inaugural ceremony of career counselling initiative ‘choolenge aasman’ at Model school TT Nagar, Bhopal.
 
 Sharing his experience with more than 70 students here, the CM said while he was interested in philosophy, his parents wanted him to become a doctor. “I first opted for science subject as per my parent’s choice, but faced problem as I failed to dissect a frog. That day I made a choice and pursued philosophy from Bhopal University and also won a gold medal,” Chouhan told students. He told students he wants to see children prosperous so that they could create a  .
 
 “In order to make PM Narendra Modi's concept of building new India a success, we have to create new Madhya Pradesh and it will be possible only when students will do well in studies,” he stressed. Chouhan enlightened students on three purposes of education. “Education fulfils three key purposes — to impart knowledge and good values, and employment-oriented training,” he said. “Advance planning is very important to achieve goals. We need to inculcate a sense of dedication and passion in pursuing a career,” he said. He informed students the state government would bear fee of around 1,12,625 students, who have passed Class 12 MP board exams by securing 70% or above per cent marks.
 
 He urged students to explore other fields besides going for NEET, IIT, JEE exams. Chouhan said higher education is not compulsory for success and cited example of cricketer Sachin Tendulkar. Many people in the world had not been highly educated, but but achieved major success like Sachin Tendulkar,” he said. He also urged parents not to pressurise children to pursue a specific career. “Help them to select a career according to their interests and tendencies,” he said. At the start of programme, CM inaugurated an employment portal ‘MP employment portal’. He informed the portal would be a platform, which offers around 180 job roles available in 38 sectors.
 
