MUMBAI: The builder who bagged the redevelopment rights of nine civic markets and failed to complete work despite two extensions has been given yet another chance to redevelop   in Bandra, awarded to him in 2005. 

 This is the third extension given to Manthan Developer in eight months to rehabilitate 59 licensed vendors and shopkeepers. The builder has got an extension till April 30. Locals alleged that the   had given a long rope to the developer despite the builder failing to deliver. Pali market located below the upmarket residential enclave of Pali Hill is the most lucrative of the municipal market plots to be redeveloped.
 
 Developer Abhijeet Rane was not available for comment. A senior civic official, justifying the extension, said, “The market portion is complete and interior and electrical work is going on. It will be handed over to BMC by April 30.”
 
 The civic official added that the commencement certificate will be given to the builder only after he hands over the podium parking and the rehab component of the market. 
 
 “The assistant commissioner (markets) is confident that the builder can complete the redevelopment,” he said.
 
 “It has been only due to our pressure that the builder is doing work in fits and start,” said Madhu Poplai of the Pali Hill Residents’ Association, which is helping with rehabilitation of licensed vegetable vendors. “The Pali Market project has been languishing for a decade. The BMC keeps giving extension after extension instead of taking action and cancelling the contract,” she said.
 
 Last year, local BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said he would ask the municipal commissioner to terminate the permission given to the developer if he is unable to complete the work.
 
 Local   corporator Asif Zakaria said it was evident that the builder is not inclined to complete the project. “Last September, we had a meeting with civic officials and a final three-month extension was given to the builder to complete work by December 31. It was decided that the deal would be cancelled after that. The BMC seems to be helping his cause instead of sending a strong message,” he said.
 
 A civic official said throwing out the builder now may lead to litigation and further delay the redevelopment. 
 
 The developer’s website shows an 18-storey luxury residential tower, Manthan Embassy, on the plot. Two years ago, activists complained to the BMC that the developer was trying to sell space in the free sale portion even before completing work. The developer was forced to pull down the billboard announcing the launch of the luxury tower.
 
 Meanwhile, licensed vendors have lodged a complaint at Bandra police station alleging that the builder had directed the bank to stop payment of cheques to them for alternative accommodation.
 
 
