MUMBAI: The   on Monday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party ( ), this time using Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat's 'enlightening' speech in Raigad on March 30.

 "Corruption has increased in the country. This is the reason why there are so many anti-corruption agitations all over India. Instead of doing soul-searching, it is being ignored," the Shiv Sena said, quoting Bhagwat's speech at the Raigad Fort.
 
 Among other issues, the RSS chief said the country's polity had weakened and women's safety was not guaranteed. He also praised the Maratha warrior king Shivaji who ruled without any religious discrimination against his subjects.
 
 "These days, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is carrying out a 'Halla-Bol' in Maharashtra against corruption. It appears that Bhagwat briefly grabbed the reins of the agitation, and pushed down corruption from the Raigad hill top," the Sena said in edits in the party mouthpieces 'Saamana' and 'Dopahar Ka Saamana'.
 
 Referring to the 2014 general elections, the Sena said it was on the issue of corruption that lakhs of RSS workers toiled hard to evict the erstwhile (UPA) government.
 
 "Despite having Narendra Modi as the Prime Minister, corruption has gone up in the country, and this is declared by Bhagwat himself. Corruption is being discussed all over, the opposition paralysed Parliament for a week on this issue, Anna Hazare carried out a week-long agitation in New Delhi on the same," the edit pointed out.
 
 The edit said Bhagwat was compelled to raise the tough question: "Why social and political organisations are carrying out such agitations - Because corruption has snowballed."
 
 "The RSS is the 'parent' of the BJP and its views are significant' However, if there's anybody who feels that RSS chief is talking nonsense, let them dare to step forward and say so," the Sena said.
 
 On Bhagwat's comments on Shivaji's no to discrimination against any faith, the Sena said in PM's home-state Gujarat, a Dalit man was killed for owning and riding a horse, violence erupted in West Bengal during Ram Navami celebrations and swords were flashed in Ayodhya where the promise to construct a Ram Temple remains unfulfilled.
 
 The situation today is marked by inflation, undermining of the education system, corruption and poor administration, it said.
 
