COIMBATORE/SALEM: Hitting out at the   for escalation of the   imbroglio, chief minister Edappadi K   expressed hope that the Centre would constitute the Cauvery Management Board.

 Talking to reporters in Salem on Sunday,   also hoped that the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee will be set up as per the orders of the Supreme Court. “The apex court has categorically said that the Cauvery Management Board and Cauvery Water Regulation Committee should be set up within six weeks. The President’s approval should also be obtained within the stipulated time. We hope the Centre would definitely implement the order,’’ he said. 
 
 On the apex court reducing the quantum of water for Tamil Nadu, EPS said that the state government would decide on appropriate course of action after consultation with legal experts.
 
 Later in the day at the Coimbatore airport, EPS came down heavily on DMK for doing little to solve the Cauvery dispute. On DMK leader Duraimurugan blaming the AIADMK for reduction of Tamil Nadu’s share of Cauvery water in the Supreme Court order, the chief minister said the DMK was responsible for the Cauvery imbroglio.
 
  “The role of DMK in finding a solution to Cauvery dispute was nil. Rather, the DMK was the cause of escalation of the controversy,” he said.
 
 Palaniswami said the Cauvery water sharing agreement between the Madras Presidency and the princely state of Mysore in 1924 lapsed in 1974. “DMK was the ruling party then. But the DMK government did not take steps to renew the agreement,’’ he said. 
 
 The non–renewal of agreement resulted in hardship for farmers of delta region for decades thereafter. Even when Karnataka started constructing Kabini reservoir, the DMK was the ruling party. “The DMK could have stopped the construction of the dam if they had legally taken up the issue,’’ he said.
 
 On the other hand, the AIADMK government took concerted efforts to fight and ensure the rights of Tamil Nadu over Cauvery.
 
 “When the demand for publication of the final award of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal in the Union government gazette was not heeded, Amma (J Jayalalithaa) took it up legally and got it published,’’ he said. The Centre did not comply with the direction to constitute the Cauvery Management Board. “Amma’s government took it up legally again and has now found a solution through the apex court order,’’ he said.
 
 On the contrary, the DMK did not take any steps to get the tribunal order published in the Union government gazette when they were in government, he alleged.
 
 
