THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a move that could benefit hundreds of expatriate students in their homecoming, the   has relaxed norms for the admission of such students in CBSE-affiliated schools in  . 

 As per the revised norms under ' ,' initiative, schools in Kerala are free to admit   up to the month of November, on their own. If the admission is sought after November, they can admit students after obtaining prior permission from the CBSE regional office here.
 
 Generally, April 15 is the last date for schools to complete admission procedures. The strict compliance of the deadline used to pose difficulties for parents and students who return from abroad, especially from   countries. 
 
 "Many students and parents approach CBSE office seeking guidance for admission to CBSE-affiliated schools, after the April 15 deadline has passed. Since schools abroad, especially those in Gulf countries, follow a different academic schedule, the April 15 deadline is a challenge for those seeking transfer to schools here. The relaxation is expected to help several such students. Though the circular speaks only about students from Gulf countries, it would be applicable to all those coming from abroad," Tarun Kumar, regional officer, CBSE, said.
 
 The regional office has also appointed city coordinators for providing guidance to parents, children or schools regarding admission to expatriate students. 
 
 "In case a Gulf student is coming from any other foreign board, equivalency of the course already passed vis-a-vis equivalent qualifications in India is required to be established in accordance with the Examination Bye-Laws," the CBSE circular said.
 
 "The CBSE's move is a welcome one. Several people have been forced to relocate to Kerala and since schools in Gulf countries predominantly closes for annual vacation in June /July months, joining a school back in Kerala, without losing a year, was very difficult," said K Sasikumar, chairman of the Sree Buddha Foundation, which runs several educational institutions, including CBSE-affiliated schools in   and Alappuzha.
 
 
