NEW DELHI:   dubbed the   a “big let down” and “defeatist” as it accused the government of throwing in the towel instead of making belated efforts to solve problems while the Left said initiatives for the poor were an acknowledgment of deteriorating ground realities.

 Congress president   tweeted, “4 years gone; still promising farmers a fair price. 4 years gone; fancy schemes, with no matching budgets. 4 years gone; no jobs for our youth. Thankfully, only one more year to go.” And former finance minister   said the government failed to boost exports, agriculture, healthcare, jobs, investment and provide tax relief.
 
 At the same time, Congress which had pushed entitlement programmes like rural job guarantee and food security, will have reasons to be wary of the potential appeal of the ambitious health insurance and farm price support programmes.
 
 Regional opposition parties were also critical with BJD leader Bhartruhari Mahtab saying the emphasis on direct intervention in 115 districts was an infringement of the authority of the states. He said health insurance was a welcome step but much will depend on implementation. 
 
 BSP supremo   also dubbed the Budget presented as anti-poor and pro-capitalists. She claimed the government showed little concern for the poor, labourers, farmers and the working class as a result of which unemployment is rising and the chasm between the rich and the poor widening.
 
 “The government has run out of ideas to boost exports. The finance minister has imposed additional customs duties to restrict imports. The Prime Minister’s speech at — and the spirit of — Davos has been forgotten within a few days,” said Chidambaram.
 
 “There is nothing to indicate that farmers’ real income will rise. Farm sector distress will continue and deepen, putting in peril the lives of a majority of people primarily dependent on agriculture,” he added and said the maths of the health insurance will be staggering and unviable.
 
  attributed the FM’s speech in Hindi (in parts) and the budget’s focus on agriculture to the government’s belated realisation of ground realities. 
 
  MP Mohammed Salim said, “The party which talks about   and Ramayana, forgot Eklavya; social outcasts still remain where they were. The Budget has nothing for minorities, and SCs, STs and OBCs have also not been prioritised.”
 
 RJD MP Jaiprakash Narain Yadav said there is nothing in the Budget for Bihar, and that the promises made were hollow. “BJP magic is over. In the next elections, people will give BJP a ‘shampoo wash’ — the party will be wiped out,” he said.
 
