After spending more than 25 years with   where she handled various responsibilities including treasury, corporate finance, project finance and strategy, Shilpa Kumar took over as the MD of  . She spoke to TOI on various areas of  . Edited excerpts: 

 You have been at the helm of affairs at ICICI Securities for more than a year now. What are your plans?
 
 ICICI Securities is a player in various parts of the   space,  ,  ,   and  . When we look at the industry and the way it is expected to grow, one underlying theme is in terms of how access to financial services is available in the country. Only 10% of financial household savings is invested in shares and debentures. The fact is as India grows, financial savings will also grow. There is an opportunity for investors to diversify their savings beyond fixed returns, and hence this participation in both direct equity as well as managed debt and equity ( ). To that extent, ICICI Securities through   enables investors to better allocate assets and to manage savings on the platform. This is something that we would continue to do.
 
 Also, there are a large number of companies in India that either have good business models wanting to head to capital markets,   looking for better capital composition, or companies looking at  . We find such companies through our investment banking arm and are able to participate to fulfil some of these objectives for these companies as well.
 
 How do you want to help mid-cap companies?
 
 There are entrepreneurs who are at stages where they might want PE investments, they are looking for consolidation (M&As), or companies that are looking to access the capital markets. As an investment bank, that’s something that we would really be doing — working with them and helping them fulfil their objectives.
 
 Recently, we witnessed unusual volatility in the stock market, mainly due to some fundamental and technical reasons. Where do you see the Indian market from here on?
 
 At more than 7%, India’s GDP growth rate is something that is really differentiating with the rest of the world. Second, going forward, the quality of growth will be better given the structural reforms like rollout of  , demonetisation,  , etc, that have taken place. Additionally, an important thing is that corporate earnings are also finally beginning to respond. So far, corporate earnings have borne some part of the effect associated with the whole structural reform process like   and GST. Now, as we see in the Q3 results, earnings realignment is already happening. So, I would say that fundamental growth is there and on top of that, maybe finally, we are beginning to see earnings growth as well.
 
 In the debt market, the 10-year yield had shot up by 43 basis points from 7.17% to 7.60% in about a month. That’s almost like two rate hikes of 25 basis points each. What’s leading to this spurt in yields?
 
 The market is probably responding to two sets of news: The fiscal, and the perception about inflation. On the fiscal front, I think one should not respond too dramatically to this number in the current year. This year, the fiscal deficit figures have jumped primarily because of less-than-estimated GST collections. Given the fundamental structural changes, if there are efforts to make sure it pans out in the desired direction, we will get the results we want.
 
 Now, even if you look at next year’s fiscal deficit number, a lot of people are worried that maybe there would be a lot of spend on the so called ‘perceived revenue’ items of  . Once again, if you go back to the quality of the fiscal number and not the quantity of it, I think the government’s efforts are to spend a lot in the areas of health, education, jobs and also in the rural and agri areas. The broad construct of spending like these is that the money reaches the intended beneficiaries. By spending on these areas, we have a better educated, healthier workforce, which could only be good for the economy. While investing in   is important, the bigger point is that it has to reach the intended beneficiaries. That is to be watched out for how the   ( ) works. If it reaches these intended beneficiaries, then I would not think of this as loosening of fiscal purse strings.
 
 Now on inflation: One part of the inflation story was indeed expected to play out due to the HRA (house-rent allowance) numbers. Then the debate about how this MSP (minimum support price) construct works out. The jury is out on how food inflation will play out. Broadly, what one has seen so far with this government is the focus on inflation and I do hope that stays because, indeed, that is something — where if there’s lack of focus — that could affect our macros in a much more significant way.
 
 How do you see the growing competition from discount brokerages?
 
 If you look at industry reports on this, there is a shift from smaller brokerages to bank-owned brokerages. One of the reasons for this shift is the efficient digital experience. While you have companies that compete on price, it is also true that bank-owned brokerages like us give a lot of information, efficiency in terms of managing customers’ liquidity — which really in a sense gives a more holistic experience to the customer.
 
 
