TIRUPUR:  , the district has secured the second position in class XI board exam conducted by the state school education department,  

 Students from the district have performed well in all three board exams this year. The district has improved pass percentage in both class XII and class X board exams compared to the last year. It entered the top five list for the first time and came third in the former, and retained seventh spot in the latter.
 
 According to school education department officials, 24,903 students from the district from 204 schools appeared for the exam and 24,007 cleared it. As many as 96 schools secured 100% pass, including five government schools, five government-aided schools, six self-financing schools and 80 private schools.
 
 The department has hailed the efforts of the headmasters and teachers for the performance. “Apart from the students, who put in hard work and the parents who supported them, I would like to applaud the efforts of headmasters and teachers. They were more dedicated and helped the students perform well. The department gave them full freedom to ensure that all the students clear the exam,” district chief education officer (CEO) S Shanthi told TOI.
 
 “Collective efforts taken by teachers to motivate weaker students to achieve victory have paid off. Realising that many students found Mathematics difficult, we gave more attention on the subject,” the official added.
 
 “There was healthy competition among the headmasters and teachers of various schools to produce a better result,” said headmistress of the Peruntholuvu Government Higher Secondary School M Ananthi.
 
 Headmaster of Nanjappa Corporation Higher Secondary School K Palanisamy said, “In terms of the overall pass percentage, performances of the schools with more student strength would play decisive roles. Many such schools have improved their performances in the recent years. For instance, my school has improved performance from 76% last year to 84%.”
 
 “Like the private schools, state-run schools conducted special classes even on weekends and holidays, and also conducted motivational classes. The government schools in the district found the route with the guidance from former CEO,” he added.
 
 Shanthi expressed hope that the victory will spur schools achieve good result in the coming years.
 
 
