LUCKNOW: Women piloted express trains in Lucknow division of both Northern Railway and North Eastern Railway on the occasion of International Women’s Day on Thursday.

 
 At reservation counters, too, it was women on duty for the day. The all-women staff on   included one assistant loco pilot, five travel ticket examiners (TTEs) and sanitation staff. The train was flagged off by divisional railway manager (DRM) Northern Railway Satish Kumar from Charbagh station around 7.30am. At NER station, Gorakhpur-Nautanwa Express was driven by a woman assistant loco pilot. With four women TTEs, the train departed from Gorakhpur around 11.30am.
 
 
 According to Kumar and DRM NER  , this was the first time in the history of NR and NER’s Lucknow divisions that maximum operational work, including piloting the train, ticket checking and reservation, was carried out by women.
 
 
 For assistant loco pilot  , it was the first opportunity to pilot an express train. A graduate from Gorakhpur, Mamta said, “It was a dream come true. Since childhood, I had wanted to drive a train. It felt daring to take such a responsibility.”
 
 
 TTE of Lucknow-Prayag   Vijayalaxmi said, “I have been a TTE for five years. For the first time, I have seen an all-female staff on the train.” TTE   said, “Incidentally today, there were around 150 female passengers on my reservation list. I felt like all women had come out to support us. I am thankful to the railways.”
 
 
 Riyansha, who had come to board the train for Prayag, said, “When I woke up this morning, my husband wished me for women’s day. At the station, I saw women everywhere, even my loco pilot and TTE were females. I felt very proud.” Gulnaaz, another passenger, said, “My friends and cousins had planned to celebrate women’s day in my hometown. On knowing that a woman will pilot my train, I immediately sent a message of thanks to railways on social media.
 
 
 Rahul, who had no reservation and demanded Mundri Devi a seat, was turned by her. “I have realised that not only at home, but even outside, women uphold values of honesty and integrity. I will have to adjust in a general coach, but I also proud somewhere,” said Rahul.
 
