With an aim to pay tribute and inspire all women’s around the globe, International Women’s Day is celebrated every year on March 8. This day also focuses on the importance of gender equality. 

 This year, Times of India honours all women, who stand shoulder to shoulder with men. TOI salutes the unsung homemakers and celebrates their efforts to keep everybody at home happy and contended.
 
 TOI also salutes women entrepreneurs who are making Ludhiana proud.
 
 
 
 Born into a family of professionals and married into a business family, Mridula Jain worked from home for 10 years teaching students. A creative idea struck Jain when she realized the demand of Pashmina and Toosh shawls, which were becoming rare and expensive. She then threw a challenge to her friend, “I will create something that will make you forget Pashmina and Toosh.” In 1987, Shingora Shawls was born. Jain started her unit with 8 handlooms while her husband helped in marketing her creations. Her next initiative was Wool Woollens Export Promotion Council. As chairperson of the Shawl club of India, she has worked on in various important issues and is now a member of the steering committee of handloom and handicraft sector for 12th Five-Year Plan in the Planning Commission.
 
 
 
 Rajni Bector, founder of Cremica brand, was born in Karachi. Her family moved to Delhi after Partition where she completed her schooling. At the age of 17, she was married into a business family from Ludhiana. Rajni started her career by taking up social service projects through Lions Club. She was also the pioneer of Lioness movement in Punjab for women empowerment. Later, her love for cooking made her enrol in a baking course at PAU. No sooner did she start with her career in baking, her ice creams, cakes and cookies became the talk of the town. With support of her friends, Rajni started making ice creams and put up stalls at local fairs. She started with her business by making an investment of Rs 300 and put her heart and soul, but ended up incurring loss. Then her husband stepped in to help her. In 1978, with an investment of Rs 20,000, Rajini set up a small ice cream manufacturing unit in the backyard of her house and brand Cremica was born. She faced many obstacles but eventually turned Cremica to turn into their major business. With time, company diversified from ice creams to breads to biscuits and finally to sauces.
 
 
 
 Tejbir won first runner up Navy Queen beauty pageant in 2017. She spent 25 years of her life in Ludhiana and completed her schooling from Sacred Heart Convent School. Later, Tejbir worked as a headmistress of Naval Kindergarten School, INS Chilka, and has been posted at Kochi, Kerela, Chilka, Odhisha and Karwar.
 
 
 
 Starting her career at a tender age of 16, Aarushi is one of the sought after makeup artist in Ludhiana. Aarushi has an experience of 9 years and has worked at Sephora, Lancome and Mac. By now, she has dolled up more than 1,000 brides. She has done a designing course and got into makeup during a summer course. 
 
 
 
 Paramjit Kaur is a 76-year-old women entrepreneur, who runs a fine arts institute in Model Town by the name of ‘Petals’. An inspiration for many, Paramjit started her career at the age of 16 in Mumbai. She now claims to have the best art work that can’t be found anywhere in Ludhiana. From making homemade perfumes to Tanjore paintings (made with gold), Paramjit has indeed mastered her art to perfection. 
 
 
 
 Born in 1971, Sonu Gandhi is one of the most famous fashion designers of Ludhiana. A fashion diva,Sonu did her graduation from PAU and won beauty pageant in Kolkata. From there she started with her career in the fashion industry. She has organized fashion shows in Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, New Orleans, Dubai and Singapore. Now, Sonu has her own studio in Sarabha Nagar. She has rubbed shoulders with national-level designers like Ritu Kumar, Satya Paul, Mona Pali and many more at Chandigarh Fashion week as well as Punjab International Festival. She believes that clothes should be an extension of one’s own personality. 
 
 
