Tirunelveli: BJP state president Tamilisai Soundararajan distanced herself and the party from their national secretary H Raja’s comments on razing down Periyar statues in Tamil Nadu. Raja made the comment after the statue of revolutionary communist leader Lenin was razed down in Tripura, after BJP formed the government by defeating CPM, which was in power in the north-eastern state for 25 years.

 Talking to reporters here on Tuesday she urged journos to ask Raja about his comments and made it clear that BJP does not endorse his views. She also denied allegations that BJP projected their party as Bharatiya Jesus Party to win the Tripura elections.
 
 “People voted for growth (in Tripura). We are forming the government in the three north-eastern states. Saffron has come to power in 22 states and is trying to form government in Tamil Nadu as well. We won’t come to power through the backdoor, but through our proactive politics,” she said.
 
 She alleged that the DMK is trying to politicise the Cauvery issue by spreading false information that the Cauvery Management Board will not be formed. “It has to be done systematically and not approached politically. I have spoken to Union minister for water resources Nitin Gadkari and minister of state Arjun Ram Meghwal about it. They said that work has already begun to constitute the board,” she added.
 
 Talking about her visit to Tirunelveli as part of her State wide tour to strengthen the party, she said that she and local leaders are meeting booth level leaders to strengthen the party at the grass root level. “At the end of the yatra I will also submit a report on the needs of people across the state,” she said.
 
 About requirements for Tirunelveli, Tamilisai said that she would be pressing for speedy completion of the surplus water project that is pending despite funds allotted by the Centre. We will also make a representation on denying permission to conduct cultural events at temple festivals beyond 10 pm in Tirunelveli. Police have been registering cases against the organisers,” she added.
 
 
