 authorities have issued show cause notice to thousands of its employees asking them to clarify why they did not report for work for the past five days. 

  The Coimbatore division, under which Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur and Erode districts falls, has 2,911 buses and more than 14,000 employees. According to sources, more than 11,800 employees from  , Coimbatore, participated in the strike. 
 
 "We issued them show cause notices and advised them to submit their explanations without delay. Otherwise, stringent action would be taken against them," said a senior officer.
 
  TNSTC officials in Coimbatore district recruited 520 drivers and 350 conductors for the past five days on a temporary basis and operated 70% of the buses on Monday. The officials also requested people who have licences to drive heavy vehicles to approach them officials at the   bus depot for immediate recruitment. Bus conductors also will be recruited.
 
  The Kumbakonam Transport Corporation has issued notices to about 9,000 employees across six regions - 2,500 in Kumbakonam region, 1,400 in   region, and an equal number in Trichy, Karur, and Karaikudi regions.
 
 Meanwhile, a section of the DMK-affiliated Labour Progressive Front (LPF) in Trichy threatened to operate fleets free of cost if they were forced to return to duty.
 
 In Madurai, TNSTC buses driven by temporary workers were involved in two accidents. However, no major injury or casualty was reported. Police have registered cases and are conducted inquiries.
 
 In an incident near Uthangudi, a TNSTC bus which was on its way to the MGR Bus Stand from Trichy rammed a private college bus from behind. A few passengers in the government bus and some students sustained minor injuries.
 
 At Tirunagar, a bus that departed from the Periyar bus terminal lost control and hit an electric post. A case was registered with the Tirunagar police station.
 
 A large number of school and college students were left in the lurch in the absence of adequate buses in the city. Share auto rickshaws and mini buses came to the rescue of many students and general passengers. Compared to the first four days, the number of buses that operated in the city on Monday had improved. While only 50% of the fleet was operated on Sunday, on Monday it was 60%.
 
 
