NEW DELHI: After Kolkata Police charged India pacer   under several sections of the   on the basis of a complaint filed by his wife,  , alleging domestic violence and infidelity, today claimed that had she not found Shami’s mobile phone, the cricketer would have divorced her. 

 
 “I tried to convince him that he should accept his mistake, I have been trying since very long. He would've run away to UP by now if I did not catch hold of that mobile phone, he would've divorced me till now if I did not have the mobile phone," said Jahan. 
 
 
 
 
 
 "He's making up all sorts of things to save himself from allegations. Why didn't the media investigate even after I gave them all the details? Till the day I took to social media, I tried to convince him to save our marriage. If he tries to come back I may still consider,” she added. 
 
 
 
 Reacting to the allegations, Shami was quoted as saying by ANI : "If this matter can be solved by talking, nothing can be better than that. Only patch up will do good for us and our daughter. If I have to go to Kolkata to solve the matter, I will. I am ready to talk, whenever she wants."
 
  
  
 "There have been many accusations which are increasing day-by-day. I don't want to give an explanation about it and I want it to be investigated thoroughly," he added.
 
 
 
 Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) had withheld his contract and is currently looking into the matter but Shami isn't worried. "Have full faith on BCCI, whatever decision they take will be after much deliberation and investigation. I have no tension regarding that," Shami said.
 
 The 28-year-old Shami was charged under various non-bailable and bailable sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), following a complaint filed by his wife. He has been also charged under section 498A, which amounts to cruelty to a woman by her husband or his relatives.
 
 The other charges recorded against Shami are under Section 307 - attempt to murder, Section 323 - punishment for voluntarily causing hurt, Section 376 - rape, Section 506 - criminal intimidation, Section 328 and Section 34.
 
 Hasin Jahan created flutters after claiming that Shami abused her physically and mentally apart from being involved in several extra-marital affairs. Besides accusing the cricketer of abusing her, Hasin further said that she will drag the pacer to court for cheating on her.
 
