GUWAHATI:   Investigation Agency ( ) has chargesheeted the military chief and deputy chief of the National Democratic Front of Boroland (S) -   alias Bishnu and M   alias Binod - in connection to the killing of five Adivasi villagers at   in   district in December 2014. 

 Two others of the NDFB (S) outfit - Swadwb Brahma alias Swmdwn Rava and   alias Saolen, who has already been arrested - have also been named in the supplementary chargesheet. The NIA had earlier filed chargesheets against a total of 14 persons in the case.
 
 According to the investigation, at least 14 heavily armed NDFB(S) militants belonging to the ' ' descended on Pakriguri village under Serfanguri police station on the evening of December 23, 2014 and started firing indiscriminately, following orders issued by Bidai and Batha. Five persons, including women and children, died in the firing and another four persons were injured.
 
 The NIA chargesheet said, "One of the militants, Mithinga (chargesheeted earlier), along with others, reached the house of one Adivasi villager in the area in which two children and a woman were residing. Mithinga asked them to come out, but they were scared and hid inside their kaccha house. Immediately, the militants shot around 30 rounds with AK56 and HK33 rifles. Two persons died on the spot, including the boy."
 
 The chargesheet added that another militant leader, Sibiyari, led a group in attacking other houses, showering bullets indiscriminately for about 10 minutes before leaving the village. 
 
 "The arms were thereafter buried in the nearby jungle before the militants fled away to different safe hideouts. The hidden arms and ammunition were later recovered," NIA said.
 
 On December 23, 2014, the NDFB(S) killed over 70 people in several areas of Bodoland Territorial Area Districts in a series of attacks upon the Adivasi community. 
 
 Following the incident, security forces launched a massive operation against the outfit, in which around 50 cadres were killed and 873 others were nabbed. At least 15 AK56 rifles, 10 AK47s, two M16s, two HKs, seven Insas rifles, 495 rounds of ammunition, 21 grenades and 81kg of explosives were seized during the operation. 
 
 However, Bidai and Batha continue to evade arrest and are suspected to be hiding somewhere in Bhutan.
 
 
