AHMEDABAD: The state of the   science results indicate that half of the   colleges in the state will not find students for their bachelor of engineering courses. There are 67,000 seats in 141 engineering colleges in the state, while only 44, 545 students have cleared their HSC science examination from the   board with mathematics among their main subjects.

 Education department officials said that going by the past year’s calculations at least 38,000 seats are likely to go vacant. Last year, there were 33,000 vacant seats, while this year there is possibility of another 5,000 going vacant. This will mean that around 57% of the seats will remain vacant.
 
 Explaining the calculation, an officer said that assuming that all students who have scored 40% marks take admission in engineering courses, there would still be nearly 33,000 seats left vacant. Also, there are nearly 1,000-odd students who opt for admission in NIT and IITs from Gujarat.
  
  
 Officials in the state government said that it has been observed that not all students who qualify for admission apply in the state’s engineering colleges. Even among those who apply for admission, around 80% students pursue their courses, and another 20% drop out.
 
  Around 10,000-odd students from CBSE have appeared for Gujarat common Entrance test examination, the qualifying examination for admission to engineering and pharmacy courses. However, they may not make a major difference.
 
  the former vice chancellor and principal of LD Engineering college said, “Looking at the figures, I estimate that more than 35,000 seats will go vacant. Not only these, but there will be several colleges, especially in rural areas, which will not get students in double digit.” GP Vadodaria, member secretary of Admission Committee for Professional Courses, said, “ Last year 33,714 seats had fallen vacant and we expect this number to increase this year. We ask the students not to make a rush for management quota.”
 
  the president of  , said, “Having an industry-friendly syllabus will help students to get easy placement. If the trend continues we would see several colleges, especially in the rural or far off areas, close down.”
 
 
