MUMBAI: In a significant interim relief for students fighting against “high fees”, the   on Wednesday stayed till   a state government decision allowing a medical college in Palghar run by a private company to charge Rs 14 lakh as fees.

 The high court was hearing a petition filed by 74 first-year MBBS students of  , Vedantaa Hospital and Research Centre, a unit of Vedantaa Institute of Academic Excellence Pvt Ltd.
 
  The students’ lawyer Aparna Devkar argued that though the brochure said that the collection of fees would be subject to the decision of the fee regulatory authority, which had capped the fees at Rs 6 lakh, the institute was not refunding the fees. The students had challenged a   (GR) of April 10 which essentially said that since the college was being run by a private company, it would not be governed by the fee regulatory authority.
 
 The   has been allowed to charge Rs 14 lakh as fees on the grounds that it is run by a private company and hence, entitled to “profiteering”. 
 
 A division bench of Justices B R Gavai and Bharti Dangre heard the matter on Wednesday. 
 
 V M Thorat, counsel for the medical college, argued that since the Medical Council of India has brought in changes to its rules, the fees being charged are legitimate. He sought time to file a reply.
 
 The high court granted the private medical college time to file an affidavit by June 13. The bench was of the prima facie view that the impugned government resolution was in contravention of various Supreme Court judgments, the latest being Modern Dental College versus State of Madhya Pradesh in 2016. The high court stayed the government resolution till June 13. The institute has been directed to file a reply by the next date.
 
 In 2017-18, the private company sought permission to start a medical college with 150 seats. In May 2017, the Indian Medical Council granted permission and in next month, the Maharashtra Institution of Health Sciences gave affiliation to the respondent. The government granted permission in July 2017. 
 
 
