BAREILLY: Early Sunday morning, around 2am, a dreaded criminal sustained bullet injuries in a police encounter in   after he reportedly shot at a farmer in Sarsawa area and looted Rs 1 lakh from him.

 Ahasan aka Salim was taken to the hospital where he died during treatment. Sub-inspector Sachin Sharma also sustained bullet injuries. 
 
 The police had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for Ahasan, who was wanted in 50 cases, including murder, robbery and kidnapping among others. 
 
 Another dreaded criminal, Shravan Chaudhary, was also neutralized in Noida. The UP and Delhi police had announced rewards of Rs 50,000 each for him. 
 
 An AK-47 was recovered in the Noida encounter. 
 
 Police have neutralised 46 dreaded criminal in encounters over the past year.
 
 Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Saharanpur, Babloo Kumar, told TOI, "This is the third dreaded criminal in Saharanpur who has been neutralised over the past six months during police encounters. One of our officials, sub-inspector Sachin Sharma, also received bullet in his stomach and has been admitted to the hospital."
 
 The SSP said that around midnight in the intervening nights of Saturday and Sunday, Nawab Singh, a resident of Manhora village of Titaro police station area was returning home from Yamuna Nagar carrying cash with him when two miscreants stopped and robbed him near Husainpur of Sarsawa police station.
 
 "Upon opposing the robbery bid, the bike-borne criminals shot the farmer and fled the scene. On getting information, Dial-100 immediately reached the spot and flashed the message. Both miscreants were spotted on Ambala road moving towards the city. When one of our patrolling teams tried to stop them, they opened fire. During gun battle, one criminal sustained bullet injuries while his accomplice managed to flee the scene taking the advantage of dark."
 
 Police recovered the bike, a bag with the stolen Rs 1 lakh cash, and a .9 mm pistol from the accused who was rushed to the hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.
 
 Ahasan was a resident of Jhinjhan area of Shamli and an active member of Nasir gang. 
 
 "He had been in Saharanpur and Shamli jails in the past in several cases of murder, rape, robbery and kidnapping. We are collecting all details from Shamli police about him," he added.
 
 
