NEW DELHI: Next time cops come across a lost child or start a  , there will be a better chance of tracing them back to their families.

  is in the process of procuring facial recognition software that will help them match an unidentified person/child with the photograph of a missing person on record. At present, cops can use the database only if they have the details, like name, age, etc, of the missing person. Police sources said that the new facial recognition software is being procured in the wake of a directive issued by Delhi high court.
 
  
 The software will also function through a mobile app, which will be developed for iOS and Android. It will also factor in the ageing during the identification process. Explaining the features of the software, a senior police officer said: “The system will be capable of processing live videos with feeds from over 100 live cameras simultaneously. There will also be provision for online matching of missing persons using Android and iOS mobile applications. The software will be able to distinguish facial images of people of different race and ethnicity.”
 
 Police sources said that the proposed   (FRS) will be capable of enrolling facial attributes and then providing the best matches for any given image. It will also have the technology to determine the changes due to ageing while performing the match because several children are often found after months or years. The FRS software is capable of searching over 2,000 face images per hour, added the officer. Once functional, the software will also act as a valuable repository of images, which can be used by investigative units and state police through the CCTNS network.
 
 In February, Delhi high court had directed Delhi Police to use such a software on a trial basis for two weeks and then file an affidavit with the results of the test. The direction had come on the submission by NGO  . The court asked the Union ministry of women and child development to re-examine its stand after it said that the government had been dealing with a Kolkata-based firm for developing the software to track missing children. “Waiting for the perfect software to be developed with an open-ended timeline does not serve the purpose of addressing the issue of missing children on an urgent basis,” the court had said.
 
