LUDHIANA: A 55-year-old man in a village near Ludhiana murdered his married daughter and the man she was in a relationship with, allegedly because he was ashamed of their live-in relationship. 

  The accused,   of   village axed his daughter  , 35, and beheaded her partner  , 40 with a sword while they were sleeping in a room on Monday night. He then took their bodies to a village square in a cart and left them there for everyone to see. 
 
  Police said the bodies were mutilated as Gurmail kept hitting the two with the axe even after they had died. He told cops that the couple had brought "disrepute" to the family. ADCP   said, "Gurmail has confessed to the killing. He wanted to behead his daughter as well but couldn't find the courage." 
 
 Police officials told TOI that they were surprised at the brutal manner in which the couple was killed in the latest case. Gurmail, in a fit of rage, kept hitting the two with the axe even after they had died, leaving the bodies badly mutilated. He told cops that he believed the couple had brought disrepute to the family.
 
 According to the FIR, Balwinder had married an auto driver, Harminder Singh, about 17 years ago and had two children with him, a 14-year-old daughter and a 12-year-old son. Kuldeep, also an auto driver, was separated from his wife and was a close friend of Harminder. Over time, he came close to Balwinder.
 
 Police officials say that Balwinder was not happy in her marriage and in 2013, moved in with Kuldeep after developing a relationship with him. Embarrassed over the affair, Gurmail left his village and started living in a gurdwara in Fatehgarh Sahib returning to meet his family occasionally.
 
 Gurmail’s neighbour, Kulwinder Kaur, said that Balwinder had returned home with Kuldeep a few days back and things seemed to be returning to normal. “Late on Monday night we heard Gurmail’s eldest son, Gurpreet, screaming that the house was splattered with blood and it was empty,” she said. “He suspected that the couple had killed Gurmail. But when we reached the village square, the two bodies were lying there in a cart.”
 
 ADCP Rajveer Singh Boparai said, “Gurmail has confessed to the killing. He wanted to behead his daughter as well but couldn’t find the courage to. Balwinder and Kuldeep had stayed away from the family for the past five years. A month ago Balwidner talked to her daughter and said she was living in Rewari, Haryana. One of the brothers then went to Rewari to bring her back. Even Gurmail supported the move at the time. Family members claim that they had no idea Gurmail was still angry and that he would kill the two.”
 
 
 
 
