CHENNAI: A  , who had allegedly collected a bribe of Rs 68.91 lakh from the managing director of a company running a   by threatening him with arrest, is in the net.

 The   ( ) has booked A Mohammed Balulullah, former DSP in the economic offences wing-II (EOW) unit and who is at present working as DSP in   ( ) in Tiruvarur, under the provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act. The FIR, registered on Thursday, has accused him of collecting cash and electronic goods from the company as bribes.
 
 The action was taken based on a discreet enquiry conducted by an additional director-general of police in September, 2014. In 2013-14, the EOW was investigating a case pertaining to M/s  , started by S S Sundaram and Mahadevan, registered as a firm in 2011.
 
 The firm collected deposits from public and invested them in capital market and real estate. It spawned four eponymous companies as well. They had issued advertisments to collect deposits from public, guaranteeing a monthly return of 10% up to 24 months with 100% capital guarantees in forex and commodities trading. 
 
 They also announced referral income similar to multi-level marketing (MLM) and incentives in the form of laptops, bikes, cars and villas.   had collected information and referred the guarantee of abnormal returns to EOW, which investigated the issue.
 
 The case came to Balulullah, who collected details and copies of documents and initiated an inquiry against the firm, DVAC said. EOW found that between September 2013 and August 2014, Balulullah collected a sum of Rs 68.9 lakh as cash and household articles on various occasions from managing director of the firm, S S Sundaram, through his administrative executive Mohamed Rizwan. This was allegedly done by threatening Sundaram with a case and arresting him for collecting investments from public without proper approval from regulatory bodies.
 
 Based on this, DVAC conducted a detailed inquiry against the DSP and the then in-charge superintendent of police, an IPS officer. 
 
 The latter had forwarded the complaint against Grow Rich Foundation to the accused for taking necessary action.
 
 
