NEW DELHI: At the halfway stage of  , we take stock of which players with hefty pay packets have failed to translate that into worthwhile performances. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Short, the leading run-getter of the 2017-19 Big Bash League and who this year broke into Australia’s T20I squad, went for 20 times his base price with Rajasthan Royals spending Rs 4 crore for him. He was picked, ostensibly, on his sensational BBL form for Hobart Hurricanes, breaking the mark for most runs in a season and the highest sore in the BBL. Despite being one of the most sought-after uncapped overseas players at the auction, the 27-year-old has struggled in the   with scores of 4, 6, 11 and 44 at an unacceptable strike-rate of 97.01. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 At Rs 9 crore, Maxwell was Delhi Daredevils’ costlier buy of the player auction. Three other franchises took plenty of interest in him, but a late bid from Daredevils upped the stakes from Rs 7 crore and the GMR-owned franchise eventually won the Australian allrounder. Maxwell’s poor form has been directly co-related to Daredevil’s awful performance this season (they sit at the bottom of the points table): scores of 17, 13, 47, 4, 12, 27 and 6 with the bat, and four wickets at an economy rate of 7.22. 
 
 
 
 Rs 11.5 crore was an insane amount of money to be purchased for, but then this is one of the most skilled Indian fast bowlers when it comes to Twenty20 cricket. No doubt the left-arm pacer’s form in the previous IPL was the swinging factor in his gigantic pay packet (24 wickets in 12 games for Rising Supergiants, striking every 11.4 deliveries while conceding runs at 7.02 per over). However, that kind of accuracy and potency has not been forthcoming, and Rajasthan Royals have struggled to bowl out teams. Unadkat has played all seven matches but has just four wickets to show for, at an exorbitant economy rate. 
 
 
 
 
 Here’s a stat that you should take note of. Since May 24, 2015 Pollard has bowled 7.5 overs in the IPL. That means that Mumbai Indians are playing him purely as a batsman and fielder. Bought back by the defending champions for Rs 5.40 crore with one of their Right-to-Match cards after Delhi Daredevils bagged him, the West Indian has had little impact with innings of 28, 0, 5, 21*, 9 and 13. His strike-rate during this time? Just 108.57. 
 
 Pollard’s IPL value is underscored by the fact that when he gets to the 50-mark, Mumbai win 75% of their matches. But when he’s not getting anywhere near and batting too low, is there a point playing him? And he has yet to bowl an over. 
 
 
 
 Finch’s pedigree as a limited-overs opener for Australia fetched him a price tag of Rs 6.2 crore, from a base price of 1.5 crore, but he has yet to make one score of note. His IPL began with two golden ducks, then came an unbeaten six-ball 14 to help centurion Chris Gayle end KXIP’s innings on a bang, followed by two single-digit scores. Part of the problem has been that Finch has not had a permanent spot in the KXIP batting order - he’s batted at 3 and 5, despite being an opener - but such flimsy returns are not what the owners would have had in mind when they spend big bucks on him.
 
 
