AGARTALA:   released its 28-page ‘Vision Document’ on Sunday, promising employment opportunities for every household, free education for women up to the graduate level, a college in every constituency and, in a push to its Digital India initiative, free smartphones for youths. 

 “The manifesto reflects Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s development agenda,” Union finance minister Arun Jaitley said, releasing the document. Besides promising brick housing for those who don’t have homes, free health insurance for all BPL households and drinking water for everyone, the party said it would implement the 7th Central Pay Commission for state government employees, regularize all contractual government employees, and provide minimum social security pension of Rs 2,000 and minimum wages of Rs 340. 
 
 Bringing those accused in the Rose Valley scam to the books also features on the party agenda. The focus is on sector-wise development — connectivity, mobility, infrastructure development and urban amenities — to invite more investment opportunities to the state. 
 
 Dormant sectors will be revived and new industries will be set up. The party has also promised it will fill up more than 50,000 vacant state government posts. “We are committed to bring transparency in public employment policy, which is lost today because of nepotism under the Left Front rule. 
 
 If a BJP-led government comes to power, the state and the Centre will work in a coordinated manner, so the state can prosper,” Jaitley said. Criticising   for underdevelopment in  , Jaitley said the main opposition of the region had betrayed the people of the state, which helps BJP to grow in northeast as a whole. 
 
 Reiterating his party’s stand on development of the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council, Jaitley said the PM and home minister, in a meeting with IPFT leaders in New Delhi, had made it clear that a committee would be formed to look at the socio-economic, cultural, linguistic and educational issues, but in no way would the party division of Tripura.
