PATNA: An annual sports carnival of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) kicked off with a badminton doubles competition at the   indoor stadium on Friday.

 Shweta Kumari and Fariya Perween defeated Sneh Lata Singh and Soumya Suhasni by 24-25, 21-23, 21-12 in the girls’ group. In the boys’ category,   and Prabhat Kumar Singh defeated Abhay Kumar Singh and Avinash Bhardwaj by 21-11, 21-09.
 
 Litera Valley School: The three-day ‘Third Super Smash Interschool Badminton Tournament’ organized by Litera Valley School (LVS) on its campus concluded on Friday with a prize distribution ceremony. 
 
 In the junior boys singles’ category, Kartik of The Tribhuvan School got the winner’s trophy while the runner-up trophy was bagged by Sumit Kumar of Asha Deep School (ADS). Zainab Nazir of Raza International School (RIS) was the winner of the junior girls singles’ category and Kajal Singh of LVS got the runner-up trophy. In doubles for boys, Binit and Sumit Kumar of ADS got the winners’ trophy while Don Bosco Academy’s Satyam and Adi Athar walked away with the runner-up trophies. In doubles for girls, RIS’ Zainab and Sara won the winner’s trophy and the runner-up trophy was bagged by Kajal Singh and Namrata of LVS. 
 
 Prateek of DAV-BSEB and Yash of Radiant International School got the winner’s and first runner-up trophies, respectively in the senior boys singles’ category. In the girls singles’ group, Namaswi of LVS got the winner’s trophy and Akansha of S R Vidyapeeth was declared the runner-up. In doubles for boys, DAV’s Prateek and Navneet were declared winners whereas the runner-up was Dr G L Dutta DAV Public School’s Shubham and Ravi. In doubles for girls, Tripti and Namaswi of LVS were declared winners and the runners-up were Kendriya Vidyalaya’s (Bailey Road) Richa and Priti. 
 
 Prizes were distributed by   secretary Neeraj Kumar, who was the chief guest on the occasion. LVS director Amit Prakash, principal Sharat Kumar Singh and academic head Shabnam Bhowmick were also present at the prize distribution ceremony.
 
 Gorakhpur University former dean Jagdish Singh inaugurated a national conference on ‘Civil Engineering and Sustainable Urban Development’ at   on Friday. Urban development department principal secretary Chaitnaya Prasad was the guest of honour on the occasion.
 
 
