PANAJI: The recently-launched mobile library van service by the Goa state   has received an overwhelming response with over 600 books having been issued to citizens in remote areas of Goa. Motivated by the same, the Goa state central library is gearing up to procure six more vehicles that will be custom-built to nestle a library inside a bus and shall operate in the state.

 Library authorities have thus written to the   (GAIL) to provide them with five such buses to further their cause. They have also written to Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) to equip them with one bus. The first bus that was launched as a mobile library van was built by Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd (ACGL) and funded by the Rotary Club of Panaji Mid-Town.
 
 “Like the first bus, these following buses will also be custom-built to accommodate a library inside it,” said curator, Carlos  . “The cost per bus may go up to Rs 25 lakh. The fuel, driver’s salary and maintenance of the bus is managed with state government funds,” he said.
 
 The mobile library van saw its first audience in the Dhangar community after its launch at Bhuipal, Sattari, in December. Since then, the bus has been going around in remote areas of the state, going as far as places like   and Nagargao, in a mission to take books to people’s doorsteps.
 
 The van stations itself at a central location at every village after connecting with a panchayat member or prominent resident through whom the message of their visit is spread.
 
 “We have received a good response from children and senior citizens for this service. Many have suggested that we also have competitive books like NET/SET in this collection. We are in the process of providing the same, once the new buses arrives. The new fleet will be stationed taluka-wise on alternate days,” Fernandes added.
 
 This library has novels, critiques, biographies, encyclopedias and magazines in Konkani, Marathi, English and Hindi. Any identity proof is enough in order to avail a book. This can range from students’ school ID cards to their parent’s voter’s ID or Aadhar card.
 
 Gfx:
 
 Books-on-Wheels
 
 Professionals, non-professionals and other members of the community can issue books of their choice
 
 A day-long programme will be held in each village of Goa wherein, per day, one village will be visited by the van. The vehicle will return to the same village after 15 days to collect the books that had been issued during the last visit
 
 A flatscreen television has been placed inside the vehicle to provide audio-visual services to the villagers. Librarians will show films of moral studies and value education to children in villages
 
 The bus will return to the state central library premises in   by the end of each day
 
 
