LUCKNOW: The first roza of the holy month of   will be observed by Muslims on Thursday after confirmation of moon-sighting by both Shia and  .

 
 
 While   of Shia Markazi Chand Committee made the announcement, citing sighting of the moon in Chennai, the head of   Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali also confirmed this by saying the moon was sighted in various cities.
 
  
  
 
 The clerics made attempts to catch a glimpse of the crescent from atop the Satkhanda and  , respectively, but couldn’t sight it. Then the announcement was made on basis of confirmation received from other cities.
 
 Senior Shia cleric and vice-president of All India Muslim Personal Law Board Maulana   had earlier in the week made predictions based on astronomical observations that Ramzan would begin from May 17 and Eid will be celebrated on June 16.
 
 Meanwhile, health experts suggested suitable diet plans for iftar and sehri as days during Ramzan this year would be long and hot.
 
 Professor at   Dr Kausar Usman said, “There will be a gap of more than 15 hours between sehri and iftari. People will need to maintain temperature of body with fluids, grains, fruit, vegetable juices, soup and dry fruits. As nights will be shorter and there will be minimum time of around four hours between taraweeh (night prayer and recitation of Quran) and sehri (predawn meal), it’s important to pay attention to health and balance in sleep time. People must avoid tea, coffee, salt and fried food.
 
 Professor at Era’s Medical College Dr Shakeel Ahmad Qidwai said, “Middle-aged people prefer to sleep after taraweeh. They must get up early after three-four hours of sleep. It’s not possible for them to have heavy diet. It is advised to start sehri diet plan with dates and fruits with high water content and then wait for at least 10 minutes to have high-fibre food. One must have juices and plenty of water.”
 
 Diabetics are not advised to observe fast. If anyone with diabetes wants to fast, they should take fluids, plenty of water, grains, sprouts and medicine. Similarly patients with heart, blood pressure and other endocrine problems are required to take doctor’s advice.
 
 Senior consultant physician at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital Dr   said, “Hypertensive patients must follow their medicine chart. Also fluids, grains and plenty of water are strongly recommended.”
 
