HYDERABAD:   will soon lose the opportunity of   Come June and all households now served with   will get drinking water from the  . Works pertaining to laying of 44.5 km of a water trunk main between   (MBR) and Patancheru are going on at a brisk pace and are likely to be completed by June.

 The state government has decided to supply Manjira water to villages under Mission Bhagiratha. Thus, the areas in Hyderabad that are served with Manjira water will get Godavari water from June. This in effect means Hyderabadis will not get Manjira water any more. Only Godavari and Krishna water will be supplied in the city. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWSSB) is executing the pipeline works.
 
 At present, the water board is supplying 48 million gallons of water per day to Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills, Hydernagar, Patancheru, part of Seri Lingampally, and Ramchandrapuram (RC Puram).
 
 According to a detailed project report (DPR), Godavari water will be tapped from Ghanpur MBR, which is located in the city outskirts, and supplied to service reservoirs at Patancheru through an inter-linking system. The water board has designed to lay 44.5 km of water trunk main between Ghanpur MBR and Patancheru.
 
 “The water board is spending ?398 crore on the project. Till date, nearly five km pipeline has been laid. The board has planned to complete the pipeline works by June, four months ahead of the schedule. We will supply 78 MGD of Godavari water once the work is completed,” HMWSSB director (projects-II) D Sridhar Babu told TOI.
 
 The board came across difficulties in land acquisition to lay the water pipeline. It had to secure permission from the Roads and Buildings (R&B) and the National Highways. It has already constructed service reservoirs at Patancheru and peripheral circles to supply the Godavari water.
 
 HMWSSB, project division-V (Sahebnagar) general manager B Shivaraj said, “Over 15 to 20 lakh people in Patancheru, RC Puram, part of Seri Lingampally and Hydernagad will be benefited”.
 
