“About 1 in 10 people have some degree of CKD. It can develop at any age and various conditions can lead to CKD.”

 Kidneys play a significant role in   filtration. They eliminate waste products and extra fluid so that they can be flushed out of the body as urine. When your kidneys don't work right, wastes build up in your blood and make you sick. This function is performed by   cells i.e. nephrons and when they are damaged, the process is also affected leading to Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD). Chronic kidney disease may be caused by diabetes, high blood pressure and other disorders. Patients with CKD have an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases; hence they should be cautious with their blood pressure, medications and other risk factors like high blood lipids.
 
 Recent research shows that among their many burdens, patients with CKD live with both a reduction in physical strength and a diminished capacity to exercise—they struggle to do what their healthy, age-matched counterparts take for granted. Patients with advanced CKD, especially those on long-term dialysis, often suffer from muscle wasting and excessive fatigue. Physical inactivity among adults with CKD is a long-standing clinical problem and a scarcely investigated issue. Clinicians and researchers confirmed this problem to be a grave one and have conducted studies for same. Through the studies, it became evident that the truth of exercise limitation in CKD was far more complex than anyone had envisaged two decades earlier.
  
 Another study was conducted on 63 patients with Stage 1–5 CKD. Along with exercise various other kidney parameters were also examined in those patients. The results of this study state that exercise limitation in CKD begins at a much earlier stage than perhaps previously recorded. The findings from the study help us to understand the burden of physical inactivity in patients with CKD.
 
 To maintain the well-being and functional capacity of patients with CKD, attention should be directed towards maintaining strength and aerobic fitness as well as focusing on renal function.
 
 
 1. McMahon LP. Exercise limitation in chronic kidney disease: deep seas and new shores. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2016 Dec;31(12):1975-1976. Epub 2016 Aug 8.
 2. About Chronic Kidney Disease. Available at: https://www.kidney.org/atoz/content/about-chronic-kidney-disease. (Last accessed April 2017).
 
 
 , M.D. (Med.), D.N.B., D.M. (Nephro), Consultant Nephrologist, Vidya Hospital Kidney Centre, Raipur
 
 shubhadubey32@gmail.com
 
 
 
 
