When it comes to the matters of the heart, flowers are still considered to be the most popular way to express one's feelings. And topping the list is the red rose. However, this Valentine’s, Mumbaikars seem more inclined to floor their lovers with a Chinese   (rose) than a desi one. And they are buying it in kilos to serenade the women of their dreams. A fact that came to light, when BT took a stroll down the city’s flower markets – Dadar Phool Gully and  . Usually awash with buds and flowers of almost every hue, they will wear a red-pink look today. 

 
 
 
  
  
 
 You won’t need a map to head to the flower market at Dadar, it is right outside the station and under the flyover. If nothing, your nose will lead you to the area, which filled with flowery fragrance. Be prepared to haggle a little, for this is a street-style market. “
 ,” says a woman, handing out the green stems with closed purplish buds. You are informed that they may seem this way, but will bloom in roughly six hours. Clearly, you also get a little know-how as part of the buying fun! Among the dahlias, marigolds (better known as 
 ) and the liliums, the place is enveloped by  , of different colours. It’s the flower 
 and the stalls here expect to have a sell-out! But wait, it’s not the 
  that will rule the money ledgers and your hearts, today. Shop owner Nitin Raghunath informs, “
 popular Chinese 
 , 
 (four times) 
 business 
 . 
 , Valentine’s Day party 
 Smaller than its 
 cousin, the flower has its advantages. As another vendor Ashok Veerathappa Yeri says, “The Chinese flower lasts over a week, while the 
 one dries up in a few hours, that’s why customers prefer it.” He also has pink ‘
 ’ 
 that make for a pretty picture. “People like to use them in gift boxes and hampers and place them in large holders in the house. But the red rose is what is presented on this day.” 
 
 
  
  
 
 The flowers at the market are not just fresh, but also reasonable. So, if you don’t want to break the bank today, you needn’t fret. From a bundle of pretty 
 (chrysanthemeum) for `20, half a kilo of Chinese 
 for ` 80 and pink 
 for ` 200, it’s an affordable buy. Looking to say it with a single stem? Ask for the ‘loose red’ rose that comes from Poona, Sangli and Kolhapur, that starts at about ` 60 a kilo. "This is a larger, more open rose. We sell a lot of these on Valentine’s Day, roughly about 300 kilos of it,” adds another vendor Shyam Bhagat. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 If you want pretty arrangements, then go to Matunga, at the intersection of Bhandarkar and Telang roads. The place is abuzz by 5 am and by the time you read this, they will have already readied different bouquets. Stall vendor Lalu Bhowmik prepares roses with tetris arrangements. “People come here for ready bouquets or we custom make them as per their choices.”  , that come from Bangalore, also make for a V-day buy. “They are usually the second bouquet that a customer presents to someone. They last for 4-5 days,” says flower seller Sujat Mait. 
  No Valentine? No problem! We suggest dropping by the markets and treating yourself to a beautiful bundle instead.
 
 
 
