CHANDIGARH: While the tree cover of Chandigarh has witnessed a rise, there has been a trivial fall in the forest area, reveals the latest state of forest report which was released by   (FSI) With a tree cover which sprawls over an area of 10 square kilometers, Chandigarh stands second amongst all the union territories (UT). The tree cover accounts for 8.77% of total geographical area which gone up from 7.80% of the area recorded during the previous report released by FSI in 2015.

 There are a total of seven UTs — Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Delhi. Daman and Diu tops the list with 9.01% of total area under tree cover, which was 9.18% in 2015. Goa with figure of 8.73% is ranked third on the list. Chandigarh is the third smallest among UTs with a total area of 114 square kilometers. Lakshadweep is the smallest spread over an area of 32 square kilometer followed by Daman and Diu with total area of 102 square kilometer.
 
 
 The tree cover has increased relatively due to sustained plantation drive carried out by the Chandigarh administration in last few years. Around 2.5 lakh trees have been planted in different parts of the city in the last one year.
 
  
 The UT administration plans to plan around 3 lakh saplings for the next financial year as per the Greening Chandigarh Task Group.
 
 Tree cover is defined as patches of trees on area which is exclusive of one hectare of the forest area. It includes all plantations in residential areas, roadsides, parks and gardens. The term forest cover refers to an area which sprawls over one hectare having dense plantation.
 
 As per the report, the forest cover has been recorded at 21.56 square kilometer, which was 21.66 in 2015. The report has attributed development activities for the menial negative graph of 0.10 square kilometer in the forest cover. Out of the total forest cover, 1.36 square kilometers is in under purview of very dense forest (VDF). The VDF cover hasn’t changed since it was recorded in 2015. The moderately dense forest cover (MDF) has come down from 13.92 square kilometer recorded in 2015 to 13.82 square kilometer in 2017. The open forest cover also remained constant at 6.38 square kilometer.
 
 The forest area in Chandigarh includes areas like Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, City Bird Sanctuary, Sector 21, lake reserved forest, Sukhna choe reserved forest and Patiala-ki-Rao forest. It also includes compensatory afforestation sites of Maloya and Sarangpur.
 
 City has also recorded an increase in water bodies within the forested areas. From 1.45 square kilometer, the water bodies have gone up to 1.49 square kilometer.
 
 
