KOLKATA: Nearly 70 environmental action groups from across the state have joined forcestocombatthe assaulton greenery. Led by Sabuj Mancha, an open platformfor peoplesupporting environment, the organisations will hold a conclave on April 26 at   tochalkout a protest action plan on the streets to force the government to act upon its concerns.

 “NGOs in the green space and activists have been individually drawing the government’s attention to policies and actions that are anti-environment. But it has failed to elicit any response. Enough has been said. It is now time to act. We have decided to collective pile up pressure to force change,” said Sabuj Mancha convenor  .
 
 In Kolkata, the government is attempting to bulldoze through the opposition and push a flyover proposal through the  , wiping outseveralwaterbodies. In several parts of the city, trees have been hacked down and shrubs planted in their place as part of beautification drive.
 
 The activists have consciously scheduled their protest ahead of panchayat elections to highlight that environment does notfigure in the agenda of political partiesthat arebusy with many issues. “Campaigns, debates, violence are all on the rise. But none is bothered about the sad state of environment. Thecrisis isdeepening aslargescale destruction continues unabated,” said former environment law officer Biswajit Mukherjee.
 
 The organisations that will participate in the conclave include Nespon-Darjeeling, Uttar Banga Jana Shramajibi Mancha, Dakshin Banga Matsajibi Mancha,Atrei BachaoCommittee, Jhargram Paribesh Dushan PratirodhCommittee,Paribesh Bandhab Mancha-Barrackpore, Chakdah Vigyan SanskritikMancha and a clutch of organisations from Kolkata including Sabuj Macha, Disha andNagarikMancha.
 
 A strategy will be worked out to exert citizen’s right to clean air, clean water and clean environment. “The government and its agencies are flouting norms and ignoring the orders of National Green Tribunal with inpunity. We have to step up against the all-round attack on the environment,” said former   professor Sujoy Basu.
 
