NEW DELHI: Four days after six policemen from the   police station in northwest Delhi were suspended and the SHO was sent to the   for allegedly thrashing and assaulting four persons, including a local BJP functionary and his wife, police have registered an   for various offences, including theft and assault. 

 All the accused policemen were suspended soon after the case was reported to senior officers. Aslam Khan, DCP (north west), said, “As soon as we received a complaint, disciplinary actions were initiated. A senior officer has been asked to probe it and a report would be submitted.”
 
 The FIR was registered under Sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person), 379 (punishment for theft), 354 (B) (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.
 
 The complainant, Surender Agarwal, stated in the FIR that on Sunday evening a team from the Rani Bagh police station impounded his younger son Gaurav’s scooter from outside their house and forcefully took it to the police station. When Gaurav went to the police station to get it back, he was asked to pay Rs 200 to get the vehicle released.
 
 Gaurav refused to give them any cash, after which the officers asked him to pay Rs 1,000 if he wanted his scooter back. “My son told them that whatever they were doing was illegal, following which one of them attacked him,” said Surender in the FIR.
 
 Meanwhile, Gaurav’s brother Tushar reached the police station looking for him as he was not responding to calls. When Tushar asked about Gaurav, he was detained at the reader’s room and was thrashed. The duo alleged that they were injured in the thrashing. “There were five   and the driver of the QRT who were involved in thrashing us,” the brothers said. Their phones were also allegedly taken by the officers when they were being thrashed.
 
 The brothers said that the cops also misbehaved with their parents when they reached the police station. “One of the policemen held my wife’s hand and pulled her towards the room in which my sons were locked up,” Surender said in the FIR. 
 
 “They threatened to book us under the NDPS Act if we did not pay up. When I tried to intervene, the policemen attacked me as well,” said Agarwal. However, by this time he had called PCR to inform them about the incident.
 
 
