The 75th annual Golden Globes Awards took place at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills, California. This year, the award ceremony was much more than the usual stuff! The elite Hollywood celebrities brought style in solidarity and were seen wearing black for a cause. The movement #TimesUp supports anti-harassment and this year Golden Globes turned out to be the perfect platform to create awareness. Making a very powerful statement in black, the stars didn't disappoint us with their red-carpet outfits. From Kate Hudson to Kendall Jenner, here are the best-dressed celebs at the event:

 
 
 The actress was seen wearing a black Gucci gown. The velvet gown featured a sparkling train behind embellished back. 
 
  
  
 
 The supermodel was seen wearing a tulle black gown. And there's no denying she stole the thunder in the high-low gown by Giambattista Valli.
 
  
  
 
 The actress was seen in a custom-made gown by Zac Posen. The actress, who is mostly spotted in bright colours sizzled in a black gown with a flattering silhouette. 
 
  
  
 
 The actress stunned in a sheer gown by Valentino. She styled the plunging neckline gown with a pendant and sparkling earrings. 
 
  
  
 
 The actress also wore black for the solidarity. Looking beautiful in a sharp gown, she flaunted her baby bump. 
 
  
  
 
 The Golden Globes blackout supported the #TimesUp movement, an initiative founded by 300 women in the entertainment industry. Jennifer Aniston, Reese Witherspoon and Eva Longoria are among many prominent women, who have formed this anti-harassment coalition. The movement's website reads: "TIME’S UP is a unified call for change from women in entertainment for women everywhere. From movie sets to farm fields to boardrooms alike, we envision nationwide leadership that reflects the world in which we live." 
 
 
 The long-overdue movement will help to connect people, who have experienced sexual harassment with attorneys who can provide legal assistants including a free consultation. The Time's Up Legal Defense Fund will subsidize legal support for such individuals. While the group will also give access to prompt and comprehensive legal and communication help.
 
