NAGPUR: Taking cognizance of the TOI report on ‘Despite HC no, NMC continues to install fibre-based  ,’ the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) chief engineer (CE) Vijay Talewar has issued a notification stating no speed breaker would be constructed without the nod of District Road Safety Committee headed by chairman and district collector Sachin Kurve.

 The CE directed all the executive engineers, assistant municipal commissioners, EEs (traffic and hotmix departments) to construct speed breakers only after the nod from the district road safety committee and also by following the norms of Indian Road Congress-99 guidelines.
 
 Mentioning Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court orders in this regard, the CE stated that if any speed breaker application comes, the zone office should conduct a site inspection. In the second stage, the office should submit their opinion to the executive engineer (traffic department) and later the same report should be forwarded before the road safety committee for its nod. Only after the panel’s nod, the executive engineer (hot mix department) should go ahead with construction of any speed breaker as per IRC guidelines. 
 
 As per a study done by the ministry of road transport and highways in 2016, at least 30 accidents occur across the country daily due to faulty speed breakers and have claimed over 3,000 lives. In most cases, it was due to faulty design and placement of the speed breakers.
 
 According to data, since January 2017 till March end this year, the DCP (traffic) office has permitted to construct 91 speed breakers in Zone-I of traffic police.
 
 In Zone-III of traffic police, there are about 32 speed breakers, 20 in zone-IV, 14 in Zone-II and one in zone-V, respectively.
 
 In almost all the cases, the speed breakers are not painted with the prescribed marking and there are no signboards. It can be gauged that the NMC had constructed 120 speed breakers in the last one year, while precautionary boards were erected only in 21 places. At some places, lighting is also poor.
 
 There are a few roads in the city where the authorities have overdone the use of speed breakers and are causing a lot of inconvenience, said motorists.
 
 Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal has asked all assistant municipal commissioners to remove illegal humps from city roads.
 
 
