KOLKATA: A score in excess of 85% in Class XII boards exams may not be enough for students from schools affiliated to   or   to get through prominent city colleges this year. The competition is likely to get tougher as seats won’t increase, while the number of   candidates as well as those securing above 90% have gone up, overtaking last year’s figures.

 
 
 
 Nationwide, 10,098 out of 80,880 ISC candidates have scored above 90%, while in state, the figure is 3,082 among 23,000 examinees. Last year, 9,355 candidates among 73,633 had bagged more than 90% across the country, while in Bengal, the number was 2,844 out of 21,283. The surge in marks is a fallout of reducing long answers and replacing them with multiplechoice questions. Principal of a reputable college pointed out that with more and more students scoring above 90%, popular subjects would see a fierce competition for seats. “With the number of eligible candidates shooting, many will be left heartbroken,” he said. English could be the only stream in   to have fewer applicants. The number of students scoring 90 and above in English has fallen from 2,360 to 2,223 in ISC.
 
 
 With the CBSE results not even out yet, state board students are already under pressure. “When I was the principal, we used a method, called the percentile equivalence, to maintain parity among students from various boards. Under it, if a state board student got 70%, his/her percentage of marks would be made equivalent to the scores of students from other boards, even if they were higher,” said educationist and former principal of erstwhile Presidency College Amal Mukhopadhyay. Most colleges admit students, based on the last public exam score. But without an admission test, ISC students would have an unfair advantage over HS ones, he said.
 
 
 The state HC council has made the marking system lenient, but the disparity remains. Most boards have done away with moderation of marks this year. As a result, if the scores of candidates take a hit even slightly, HS students will be affected. “In some Delhi colleges, the cut-off was 100% last year. So, we are afraid that even 99% or 99.5% may not be enough. Whoever is allowing students to get such marks should rethink. If you believe more students can be encouraged to take up higher education through higher grades, it is wrong. It will only encourage all the boards to follow a similar pattern and students will suffer,” said an education department official. He added if 90% is made the cut-off for college admission tests, the boards awarding high marks were diluting the Class XII exam.
 
 
 The government may make it a must to hold admission tests or follow the Presidency system, which admits students based on boards marks and admission tests. “But this system, too, could be questioned by those who have scored high in the boards but failed to do well in admission tests,” said the official.
 
