AHMEDABAD: The   encounter case has lost one of its two petitioners. M R   - father of Pranesh Pillai alias Javed Ghulam Shaikh, who was among those killed in the 2004 encounter - died on Friday. Gopinath Pillai succumbed to injuries sustained in a road accident that occurred on Wednesday morning in Alappuzha district of Kerala. 

 Pillai, 77, was the petitioner in the case with Ishrat's mother, Shamima Kauser. On their demand, a   probe had been launched, resulting in the arrest of seven officers of   Police. Even four central intelligence bureau officers were implicated in the case.
 
 Pillai, whose the son was accused of being a terrorist, had earlier claimed that his son had been working for a "desh bhakt" (patriot) officer and was a police informer. "My son told me that he helped the police, and in return, the police helped him," Pillai had told TOI when he was in Ahmedabad for a court hearing in 2013. "I did not know who that senior cop was. But my son said that he had very good relations with that officer. He said the officer was a desh bhakt." 
 
 
 
 
 It was Pillai who appeared for the judicial inquiry that was initiated in 2009. Though all potential witnesses were summoned, only Pillai deposed before judicial magistrate S P Tamang, whose report declared the encounter as ‘murder in cold blood' and termed the cops as a ‘triggerhappy lot'. However, this report was shelved by the Gujarat high court.
 
 As Shamima Kauser’s plea for a CBI probe was pending in the high court since 2004, Pillai had first approached the Supreme Court in 2008 for a thorough probe. Since then, he had been consistently pursuing the case. He had demanded further probe and had pushed for implicating the then city police commissioner, K R Kaushik, and former state home minister Amit Shah. Pillai’s demand was made on the basis of the CBI chargesheet in which police officers involved were quoted referencing instructions from “Kali dadhi” (black beard) and “dholi dadhi” (white beard). The CBI court rejected this demand and imposed a fine of Rs 500 on Pillai.
 
 Pillai’s advocate Shamshad Pathan said, “We opposed the way the CBI probe progressed in this case. We opposed the discharge plea filed by police officer P P Pandey as well as the IB officers’ quashing plea. But the scope to keep the probe agency’s actions under check has gone with Pillai.” Now, only Shamima Kauser has got a say in criminal proceedings in the case.
 
 Pillai’s family members do not suspect any foul play in his death. His nephew, Anush M N, said: “It was an accident. A truck hit the car he was travelling in.” Anush said the car jumped over the divider and collided with another truck coming from the opposite direction. “We do not suspect anything else in this case,” he said.
 
 However, Kerala Police is probing all aspects of the accident. Kerala DGP Loknath Behra told TOI, “Full investigation will be conducted to determine whether it was an accident or murder.”
 
 
 
