KOCHI: A majority of women opposed the idea of nightlife and shopping in Kochi due to the presence of anti-social elements and the lack of proper lighting after dark, found a study that was recently-published in the journal of   in Bengaluru. The study was done by  , a faculty at St Xavier’s College in  . She surveyed 200 people in Kochi for her study and half of her respondents were women.

 At present people go out for movies or dining at night, stated the survey. It concluded that nightlife, which can increase tourism returns and ensure more revenue for the city, remains a distant dream for Kochi, despite having its own Metro.
 
 Only 30% of the women welcomed the idea of nightlife while 40% were sceptical about its success. Rest 30% rejected the idea as they found it unsafe. But, around 85% men welcomed the idea and only10 % were sceptical about its success and 5% fully opposed the idea.
 
 “Men gave more weightage to moral policing followed by ‘city not equipped for night economy’ as reasons to oppose the concept. Among women, the maximum weightage was given to the presence of miscreants which discouraged them to accept the concept, followed by lack of proper lighting,” the survey said.
 
 “When Kerala Shopping Festival was held during Onam, merchants kept their shops open till midnight. But this stopped after the festive season,” said Mohan.
 
 She had presented her findings at a conference in the city and the university journal selected her study for publication. She said cities and metros are developing into 24-hour places and Kochi cannot be left behind.
 
 Nightlife has manifold potential as it could be extended to sectors like tourism, lighting companies, entertainment, art and culture and other sectors. Employment opportunities and income generation are other promised benefits. Corporation had planned to introduce nightlife in   following the proposal submitted by   (KMCC) and even a memorandum of understanding was signed in this regard. But nothing happened after that. The local body and   spent around Rs 20 lakh for beautification of Broadway keeping in mind the nightlife potential.
 
 “The main challenge is that shops lack boarding facility for staff in shops during night and the lack of transportation. Besides, lack of parking space is another problem. The road transport authority banned parking at the entrance of Broadway. But there was no follow up after that,” said  , general secretary of KMCC.
 
 “The other challenge is clearing street vendors inside Broadway. Their huge presence on footpath is a deterrent for window shoppers. Nightlife can be implemented only after preparation and coordination between various departments” he added.
 
 
