AURANGABAD : Students from 3,577 villages in five districts of   are set to get benefits of the central mid-day meal scheme even during the coming summer vacations. 

 The villages are part of total 14,679 hamlets in   that have reported less than 50 paise   (a measure of crop yield in the farms) during the 2017-18 kharif season. The state government has ordered certain measures to extend a helping hand to the people of these villages in the wake of an agrarian crisis and extension of the mid-day meal scheme benefits is one of them. 
 
 In its latest directives, the education department (primary) has asked the schools concerned to share their requirements related to foodgrain and other items in advance to have smooth continuation of the scheme. 
 
 Offering a helping hand to the students from areas where agricultural output was low, the school education department has been providing mid-day meals during the summer vacations. The central scheme will continue till the schools reopen in June, a senior education department official said. 
 
 Official data revealed that a maximum 1,354 villages from Aurangabad district had reported Paisewari less than 50 paise, followed by Nanded (1,168), Parbhani (849), Latur (171) and Jalna (35). Schools from these places will have implementation of the central scheme during the summer vacation. Three remaining Marathwada districts — Hingoli, Osmanabad and Beed — did not have any village having less than 50 paise Paisewari.
 
 The centrally-sponsored programme of the mid-day meals serves freshly cooked khichdi as a meal to children studying in classes I-VIII in government and government-aided schools and special training centres among other institutions supported under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. 
 
 Maharashtra has over 87,077 schools where the mid-day meal scheme is being implemented. Nearly 65 lakh school children from primary section and another 39 lakh from upper primary section are covered under the mid-day meal programme. Authorities said zilla parishad schools, along with the aided and partially-aided institutes, were expected to serve ‘khichdi’ in schools during the vacation. 
 
 Principals of the schools and their respective management committees are expected to shoulder the responsibility of serving the food to children. 
 
 Authorities said a meeting of the block education officers target districts would be convened soon to apprise them about implementation aspect of the MDM programme during vacations. 
 
 Pravin Mule, a zilla parishad teacher, said the extension of MDM scheme during drought of 2015 had evoked satisfactory response from students. “We did not witness cent per cent attendance but the number of students turning up for eating ‘khichdi’ was good. Students who went outstation during vacation did not benefit from extension of the scheme. We expect same response to the scheme during approaching summer vacations,” he said.
 
 Relief and welfare measures for farmers and adequate supply of drinking water are some of the other measures which are planned by the government in villages where Paisewari for last Kharif season was less than 50%. 
 
 Marathwada, which had witnessed drought in 2015, had shown certain deficiency in rainfall after having roller coaster ride of Monsoon from June to September during previous summer. The region had reported highest (118%) June rainfall among six divisions in the state during current monsoon season but later it registered lowest (37%) normal rainfall in July. 
 
 The revival of monsoon after the second half of August resulted into the region again recording a surge in rainfall figure (107% of normal rain), followed by the certain slump in September with rainfall figure of 74%. 
 
 
