NEW DELHI: The officers of the   will now get 'washing allowance' of up to Rs 21,000 per annum, almost equal to a composite dress and   granted to the   (SPG) and more than what the officers of the Army, Air Force and Navy get every year for their dress and its maintenance.

 
 
 At Rs 10,000 a year, the soldiers of the   and the paramilitary forces,   and  , get far less to buy their uniform and wash them. Unlike the troops, the officers of the Supreme Court, including the top-ranking secretary general, will now get a washing allowance of Rs 1,750 per month.
 
 According to an order issued by the finance ministry, the non-clerical staff of the apex court will get a washing allowance of Rs 1,350 a month and remaining staff of the SC will get Rs 1,250 per month. The washing allowance to the SC staff will be effective from December 14, 2017.
 
 After the seventh pay commission award, the government merged the washing allowance given to soldiers and officers along with the money granted for buying uniforms. As per the new scales, the composite dress and washing allowance to the SPG officers was fixed at Rs 21,225-27,800 per annum, the highest among all services.
 
 
  
 
 The dress and washing allowance to the officers of the Army, Air Force and Navy has been fixed at Rs 20,000 per annum. The officers of the Delhi Police and DANIP service get dress and washing allowance of Rs 15,000 annually.
 
 The washing allowance granted to the SC staff came after much haggling with the government arguing that all such allowances have been discontinued after the seventh pay commission and allowed only in case of troops where it has been subsumed with the dress allowance.
 
 Prior to the pay panel award, soldiers and officers were allowed several allowances in the form of clothing allowance, initial equipment allowance, kit maintenance allowance, robe allowance, robe maintenance allowance, shoe allowance, uniform allowance and washing allowance. All these have now been subsumed in a single dress allowance.
 
 Last year, a bench of the apex court had directed the government to look into the demands made by the staff of the SC for a washing allowance. The court had asked the government to take a decision as the request was pending since 2013.
 
  
 
