TNN

 Mumbai: It is likely that plans to widen the scope of   (EL) and impose it on a wide range of digital transactions — such as downloading of music or apps, or payments for cloud computing, et al — may be put on the back burner for now. If the scope of the levy is widened at all in this  , it will not be all-encompassing and may cover one or two additional services and restricted to only B2B (business-to-business) transactions.
 
 EL was introduced from June 1, 2016 in a limited way. Currently, an Indian payer is required to deduct 6% on payments (if in excess of Rs 1 lakh a year) to a non-resident for online advertisements in a B2B transaction. The EL also does not apply if the online advertisement contract is between an Indian subsidiary of the foreign company and the Indian advertiser.
 
 Since EL is outside the scope of   treaties entered into by India with other countries, the foreign company cannot claim a tax credit in its home country. While EL is ostensibly a charge on the foreign entity (say, Google or Facebook), the actual burden of such levy tends to shift to the customer in India by way of higher pricing. The brunt is being borne by startups who rely heavily on online ads, say tax experts.
 
 A committee set up to examine the imposition of this levy on e-commerce transactions had proposed in February 2016 that, in addition to online marketing and advertisements, EL at 6-8% should also cover cloud computing; website designing, hosting and maintenance services; digital platforms for sale of goods or services, online content including GPS and maps, and even download of software, music, books and apps.
 
 However, to ensure that the common man was not impacted, the committee proposed that the levy should be imposed only on payments exceeding Rs 1 lakh made by an Indian payer to non-residents. This high threshold would keep almost all B2C (business-to-consumer) transactions as well as a large number of B2B transactions outside the scope of the equalisation levy and limit its impact. 
 
 According to government officials, the scope of widening EL from covering B2B online ad payments currently has been discussed in the run-up to the Budget. While India is keen to garner its fair share of tax revenue from the digital economy, they point out that EL was introduced as a pilot and various inefficiencies are yet to be ironed out.
 
 For instance, the government is aware that it is the Indian consumer who is actually bearing this levy. A solution has not yet been introduced to enable actual payment of this levy by foreign entities via, for instance, payment gateways. Even the administrative burden of depositing this levy and documentation is borne by the Indian payer.
 
 A Lok Sabha reply shows that collections from the date of its introduction till December 2016 were Rs 146.50 crore. According to sources, as of March 2017, collections stood at Rs 320-odd crore and this trend is likely to continue.
 
 Earlier this year France, with a few other EU countries, called for introduction of a temporary EL. The EU council, in its meeting on December 5, highlighted the urgency of agreeing on a policy at an international level and for close cooperation with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) — a think tank which is working towards a road map for   in the digital era. This development may also result in India adopting a wait-and-watch approach, instead of widening the scope of EL in the coming Budget.
 
 
