KANYAKUMARI: Nungu sarbath (ice apple with essence) is a delicacy that is highly in demand during the summer. Attractively served in transparent glass tumblers with nannari syrup and pineapple flavour, it is a favourite of the locals and tourists who prefer this natural coolant to beat the heat.

 But this summer, the delicacy is priced at Rs 50 per glass, due to which not many locals prefer the drink. This leaves hundreds of nungu sarbath sellers across the district to depend on tourists for sales to go up. “Price of a glass of nungu sarbath was Rs 30 last summer, Rs 40 after   and Rs 50 now,” says  , 40, who runs a shop at Thotiyodu.
 
 Ice apple sellers said that cyclone Ockhi left many   trees in the district broken or resulted in the fruits falling down. This was because the trees were dry without water due to the drought for close to two years. 
 
 But the damage caused to palmyra trees was not seen as a major issue at that time, as thousands lost their houses and more than 70 lakh cultivated rubber and banana trees were destroyed.
 
 Palmyra trees on the other hand are more of a border crop that accidentally grows without input like other cultivated cash trees like coconut or rubber. Aralvaimozhi in Kanyakumari district and   in nearby Tirunelveli district are the prime palmyra hubs from where ice apple is supplied to Kanyakumari district.
 
 “Last summer we got 300 to 350 ice apples a day but due to the impact of Ockhi we are getting only 100 to 150 ice apples a day and its price too is higher,” says  , 37, of Parvathipuram. 
 
 Driving from Nagercoil to Thiruvananthapuram one cannot miss over 50 temporary palm leaf sheds selling nungu sarbath between Parvathipuram and Thotiyodu.
 
 Though they were only selling nungu sarbath, due to the current scenario some have started selling other low cost natural coolants, such as watermelon, sugarcane and mosambi juice. 
 
 Due to the price hike of ice apple juice, many locals have turned to other options. Tender coconut is also not preferred much as it is also priced at Rs 40 a piece post Ockhi.
 
 However tourists, especially foreigners don’t bargain and are ready to pay the price for nungu sarbath, making them the preferred customers. 
 
 “When there are no tourists we sell two to ten glasses a day. But when one bus with foreign tourists stop, we easily sell 25 to 30 glasses. We are waiting for the annual examinations to conclude. Only then more tourists will come to the tourist district and we will have good business,” adds A Kumaresan, a vendor.
 
 
