KOLKATA:  , who had inherited   from her mother   in 2005, left for good at 6.30am. The hotel that her family called its own for over 80 years got its new owner, a branch of the Oberoi family, on Tuesday.

 It was the end of an era as the teary-eyed staff bid Fowler farewell, waving till her car turned the bend and drove out of sight. A couple of hours later, a new beginning dawned on the   boutiqe hotel with a colonial charm—literally—as a formally dressed woman receptionist, Subrataa Nandi, walked in to take charge, the first female employee at the establishment. A few more are set to join soon.
 
 
  
 Fairlawn did not have any woman among its staff for so long. The nook below the staircase that served as the reception was managed by male stewards or managers who took turns to answer phones, hand out or receive room keys and take orders from guests. There was no dedicated receptionist. However, the Elgin group of hotels, run by Diamond Oberoi, is not used to functioning like this. Woman receptionists in a period-themed area is the hallmark of the Elgin hotels at Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Sikkim. The group is not willing to be any different here.
 
 Nandi, who belonged to the group’s corporate office on Park Street and handled reservations there, now managed the show at Fairlawn. Two more women are likely to join before the week is out.
 
 The next big change that the hotel will don is the addition of the name, “Elgin” after “Fairlawn” on the new boards, indicating the handover. The changes notwithstanding, the Oberois, according to their agreement with Fowler, have retained all the 34 staff members of the earlier regime. Five employees have, however, resigned and the reasons were not clear. “We are sure the new management will ring in changes and we will try our best to live up to their expectations. We were used to working in a particular style, that might change now…. It is too early to say how that will work out for us, but we are sure the new management will take good care of us,” said Syed Asgar Ali, who has been a steward here since 1985. Steward Ashanur Rahman reflected the same emotions. Nervous excitement was palpable among all.
 
 While the façade, architecture and inventory of the hotel, the hundreds of old, framed photographs of the former owners and furniture will be maintained, the establishment will witness a revamp to add to its period regalia. “We restored the property of the Cooch Behar royal family in Darjeeling to design Elgin there. After the elaborate restoration is over, we will apply for a heritage hotel tag from the tourism ministry,” said Viraj Oberoi, director of the hotel.
 
