GHAZIABAD: A 23-year-old woman has posted on  , saying she “harassed” two policemen in Ghaziabad’s Masuri. Since being uploaded two days ago, the video has been watched by 54,000 people and shared over 9,000 times.

 In a post accompanying the video, the woman, a Delhi resident, said she was going to her friend’s place along with her brother when they took a wrong turn on NH-24. Even as they were sitting inside the car and trying to figure out the way using Google maps, a policeman and a driver came in a patrolling van with Masuri police written on it and started questioning them, she said in the post.
 
 Even after being told the two were siblings, the policeman allegedly spoke to them rudely and cast aspersions on their identities. The woman said it was not the cops who harassed them, but it was she who “harassed” the cops back. The video has been posted with the headline — “That is how I harassed the police”.
 
 Narrating the incident, the woman wrote: “The first question they (police and his driver) asked was ‘who is she?’. My brother answered, ‘she is my sister’. He (the driver) said sister to nahi hai (she isn’t your sister).” 
 
 The woman claimed the cops asked for their Aadhaar cards and their father’s phone number, which they declined to share. She said she was dismayed over the fact that the policemen were more interested in their relationship rather than finding out why they were there or whether they were in any problem or not.
 
 “Even if I am travelling with my boyfriend or brother, how does it matter to them? Who are they to question us? It may happen to anyone of you. Please do not give them any proof of whether you are with your brother or boyfriend. This should not be their matter of concern. Serve them with harassment if they try to do the same with you,” she wrote further. Hundreds of people, who commented on the post, have expressed solidarity with the woman. SP (rural) Arvind Kumar Maurya has ordered an inquiry. “Appropriate action will be taken,” said circle officer (Sadar) Raj Kumar Pandey.
 
 
