NAGPUR: It was mixed fortunes for Vidarbha Youth Krida Mandal, Katol team on the third day of the Khasdar Krida Mahotsav’s kho-kho tournament at the New English High School ground, Congress Nagar, here on Wednesday.

 
 The senior men’s team of Vidarbha Youth KM registered win but sub-junior girls side lost the match.
 
 Vidarbha Youth KM men downed Yuvak Mandal, Nagpur 18-7 by an innings and 11 points. Ajay Panchbhai, Faizan Pathan and Suraj Kavte were the main architects of Katol victory. Panchbhai was later declared man-of-the-match.
 
 In the senior women’s section, Shriram Krida Mandal, Musewadi got the better of Vidarbha Krida Mandal, Nagpur 10-5 by an innings and five points. Darshana Uikey, Naina Salame and Monika Kullarkar performed well for the winners. Darshana, who beat three players and held the fort for two and half minutes was named best player.
 
 Yuvak Mandal, Nagpur edged out Vidarbha Youth Krida Mandal, Katol 11-10 in sub-junior girls section. Player of the match Tanmayi Purke, Rehebi Quresbi and Ashwini Kanojia were the top performers for Yuvak Mandal.
 
 In another match, Nav Maharashtra Krida Mandal dismissed Maharashtra Krida Mandal 15-8. Player of the match Sakshi Hirneshwar, Anisha and Prajakta Gaidhane dazzled for Nav Maharashtra KM.
 
 Vidarbha Krida Mandal, Katol pipped Nav Maharashtra KM (8-7) by a solitary point in the sub-junior boys category. Vedant Nimbalkar was declared as the best player.
 
 Meanwhile, Sanjay Neware and Ashwin Masram sailed into the men’s open singles fourth round in the tennis tournament of   here on Wednesday.
 
 In the U-14 boys category, total 32 matches were played in the second and third rounds. Fancied players like Kashit Nagrale and Ameya Dhanwatay have made it to the fourth round.
 
 Earlier, the tennis tournament began on a rousing note at three venues. MSLTA Tennis Academy in Ramnagar is hosting most of the boys U-14 matches, CP Club in Civil Lines had the men’s open singles, while Gondwana Club is the venue for men’s open singles as well.
 
 Tournament supervisors are Santosh Chaterjee and his daughter Supriya Chatterjee, while chief umpire is Ashok Bhiwapurkar. Vikram Naidu is tournament secretary and tournament coordinators are Vijay Naidu and Darshan Dakshindas.
 
