CHENNAI: Caught between the pincers of shortage and pressure from the Medical Council of India (MCI) to have one cadaver for every 15 students of anatomy, private medical colleges in the state are shopping for bodies for research in neighbouring Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. 

 Unlike in government medical colleges, private institutions in Tamil Nadu are not allowed to receive cadavers for education directly from families. They either have to procure bodies from the state at a cost of Rs 1 lakh per body or from medical institutions and mortuaries in other states that charge `25,000.
 
 The supply depends on the needs of the respective states. "We get cadavers only if they are in excess in the mortuary," said the senior administrative staff of a   in Salem. "We have to haggle. If the demand is more, they give it to institutions that quote higher prices."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 TN has 49 medical colleges, 21 of which are state-run — the highest in the country. Besides MBBS students, who do anatomy in their first year, postgraduation students also use it to practice surgery. While private colleges struggle for cadavers forcing some to switch to simulation and many to teach dissection from textbooks, government institutions say they are seeing a gradual increase in the number of people signing up to donate bodies. Last year, Madras Medical College, which churns out 250 graduates and around 400 postgraduate students every year, received 15 bodies that were donated. Another 140 signed up to donate. 
 
 Officials in the directorate of medical education said 15 to 20 bodies are given to private medical colleges for a fee every year. "Priority is given to government colleges. We supply if we have excess," said Dr Narayana Babu, director in-charge of medical education. Dr Babu said the money is used for development of mortuaries. Recently, a private   in Kancheepuram had to wait for a year before they bought 10 cadavers from the state. 
 
 Former directors TOI spoke to said private colleges have for long struggled with cadaver shortage. "The government is aware of this dearth but can’t go on an overdrive as we have storage facilities only for a specific load," said a retired official. Some of the private colleges who are turned down by the government source cadavers from St John’s Medical College, Bengaluru, and Osmania University, Hyderabad. He said during his tenure, he was aware they were also sourced from smaller private institutions. "Wherever they get it from, the government has to be notified," he said, adding that this is not strictly followed. 
 
 Not all registrations translate into donations. Doctors at Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute, the only private institute allowed to accept voluntary donation in TN, said they receive bodies from only around 10% of the registered donors. "We’ve had lots of instances where the families have accompanied the volunteer to sign consent forms. But when our team arrived to take the body, they refused," said Dr P  , vice-principal and head of forensic medicine, SRMC. 
 
 
