PUNE: A 21-year-old final year engineering student, Anupam Vilas Patil, fell to his death from the   of his   in an upscale housing complex in  . The incident took place in the wee hours of Monday when Patil and his four friends had gathered for a late night party on Sunday. 

 Senior inspector Dayanand Dhome of Chatushrungi police station said, “Patil lost his balance while he was trying to sit on the balcony’s railing. Prima facie, we suspect that Patil may have been in an inebriated condition and lost his balance while trying to climb on the balcony’s railing. The suspicion arises as liquor bottles were found in the flat where the students were meeting.” The post-mortem report is awaited, he added. 
 
 A student of a city-based engineering college, Patil was staying with his parents and younger sister at Elite Empire Housing Society in Balewadi. His father works as an engineer in a state government department. “Patil had left home on Sunday after telling his parents that he was going to a friend’s birthday party,” Dhome said, adding, “When asked, his four friends in the flat told the police that none of them had a birthday on Sunday and that it was a routine party.”
 
 Patil along with his two friends had gathered in the rented flat of their two collegemates, which is located on the 13th floor in ‘A’ wing of 43 Private Drive Housing Complex. 
 
 Dhome said one of Patil’s friends told the police that Patil went to the balcony around 2am. He was holding his cellphone. “While talking with his friends, Patil tried to sit on the railing which is made of steel and glass. He lost balance and fell down in the garden on the first floor of the building,” Dhome added.
 
 “Patil was bleeding from his nose and ears after the fall. His friends rushed down and alerted the security of the building. They called for an ambulance, when it took time to arrive, his friends rushed him to a nearby hospital in a car. Patil was declared dead on arrival,” Dhome said, “Doctors said he died due to internal injuries.”
 
 A case of accidental death has been registered. The body was handed over to his parents after the post-mortem. A security official said students frequently have parties at the flat. A maid working in the flat told police that she had seen Patil several times sitting on another low wall in the balcony. 
 
 
