CHANDIGARH: The   in contemporary times have transformed into a place where the elderly, willingly step in for a better life and company of like-minded people while leaving behind the monotonous life of a family. One such place —Sri Sathya Sai Sewa Center, an old age home in Sector 30 houses almost 15 elderly people, has been serving this purpose for the elderly from more than two decades. The residents living here feel that the home is abuzz with activity throughout the day. They feel that old age homes make them feel independent even at this stage of life.

 Bhagwan Das, 80, decided to join the old age home for company as he had no duties of children. “Life has changed drastically since I moved into this place. The place gives me a homely feeling. We live like a close-knit family of friends here,” he said.  , who hails from   has been living here for more than 10 years.
 
 Unlike other old age homes, senior citizens live here peacefully without any botheration of a fee to pay for medicines, electricity and accommodation. “We only have to pay Rs 5,000 for food which too can be negotiated for the ones who are financially weak,” said an inmate on the condition of anonymity.
 
 While many find peace at home, there are others who felt the other way and came under its purview. A couple, on condition of anonymity shared that they left family of their own will as they were not happy despite the comforts. “We have now found peace,” the couple stated.
 
 Various activities like health awareness camps keep the residents occupied all day long and some of them have also pledged their organs to donate. B P  , 80 decided to come to this home after he lost his wife. “The fading family ties forced me to walk out of the home to look for alternative housing. We are comfortable, get peace of mind and in company of people who share the same story,” he said. The people residing in the home told TOI that celebrating festivals and chanting spiritual songs together with people of similar age makes the dwelling as a big joint family.
 
 This old age home is run by   organization which was formed in 1970. RK Soni, the manager of the facility said the inmates are happy and nobody wants to leave this place. “We are not paid workers. Rather, we are donating handsomely and look forward for better infrastructure so that we can lure more citizens in our abode,” he said.
 
 
