CHANDIGARH: It hid behind clouds at first, but then kept its date. Though delayed, Chandigarh got a treat of an 85% lunar eclpise and a blood moon on Wednesday evening.

 City residents in hundreds flocked to the   to witness the rare astronomical phenomenon, following the total lunar eclipse in the presence of senior astrophysicists and research students from IISER, Mohali. The phenomenon, which was visible in the city after 7.15pm, was showcased with the help of telescopes. While many parts of the world were witness to a super blue blood moon, the city missed out on the super and   because of the cloud cover.
 
 The rare event is said to have happened after its prior occurrence in 1886 and is expected to happen in 2019 as well, according to Professor  , a former proefessor of the department of physics, Panjab University, and the chief of Society for Promotion of Science and Tehcnology. 
 
 City residents from all walks of life attended special demonstrations of the eclipse with the use of balls, plastic towers and a white board. Visitors were educated about causes behind the super blood blue moon. “The earth today has come in between the sun and the moon, hence the light from the sun will not reach the moon, because Earth will block it and it will cast its shadow on the moon and when it is in the penumbra state, it will be visible to us,” said Avinash, a PhD scholar in astrophysics, IISER (Indian Institute of Science, Education and Research), Mohali. “The idea behind promoting awareness about science and technology is for cultivating an attitude towards. We organise many such events around the city, in schools and in Karnal, with our equipment van to help people see the marvels of the universe,” said Dr  , while speaking to TOI.
 
 Ankit, another PhD scholar in astrophysics at IISER, Mohali, said they used an OSA optic state telescope, with a 4.5-inch reflector telescope, to view the moon in its various forms.
 
 The difference between types of telescopes and the origin of Newton's reflector telescope was also explained to the crowd. “ am trying to see the position of moon from the horizon, while using as easy application called   and understand when will we be able to see it. Anyone can download this on their phones,” said Avinash.
 
 When asked about the myths and superstitions surrounding eclipses, Prof Dharamvir emphasised on creating a scientific temperament and referred to herself and her team as “myth busters”. “All these superstitions about food and having a bad omen are false. It is a beautiful natural phenomenon and people should come out to see it, and enjoy it,” she said. She also refuted the idea of sun and moon emitting radiations during eclipses and called them “false notions”.
 
 
