LUDHIANA: A local court on Saturday reserved orders on the plea of a Delhi-based architect to become a party in the   case. On Saturday, the court of sessions judge Gurbir Singh heard the arguments on Suneel Kumar Dey’s plea n, whereas accused Captain Amarinder Singh’s counsel argued against it. The court reserved its orders on Dey’s plea and adjourned it until February 3.

 On November 3 last year, Dey — who claimed he was one of the architects in the Ludhiana City Centre project —had pleaded before the court that before the closure report was accepted and verdict pronounced, he should be heard, as he had vital information about the case. The Captain’s counsel Trilok Sood however argued that Dey had no ‘locus standi’ in the case, and he should not be allowed to become a party in the case now. He added that Dey was a stranger to the proceedings, on the basis of a report filed by the prosecution into the matter, because he was neither an informant, nor had any concern with the case. A similar plea filed by Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simrajit Singh Bains, requesting the court for becoming a party in the case is also pending before the court. 
 
 On September 16 last year, Bains filed an application in the court through advocate  , 
 
 Challenging the closure report filed by the   in the case Bains through his lawyer Kanwar Harpal had requested to become party in the ongoing case. Claiming that it was a corruption case — which is an offence against the general public — Bains had argued that, he had the right to challenge the closure report. On August 19 last year, the Vigilance Bureau — ‘contradicting’ its own initial enquiry report — had filed the closure report in the court. It had claimed that there was no scam at all, and no proof was found against the accused, including chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, his son Raninder Singh, son-in-law  , and 33 other accused, after a ‘re-investigation’ into the case.
 
 CASE BACKGROUND
 
 In 2007, the Vigilance Bureau had filed a case against 36 accused, including Captain Amarinder Singh, his son Raninder, and son-in-law Raminder for allegedly favouring a Delhi-based firm for the City Centre project. Of the 36 accused, four — including the then Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) chairman Paramjit Singh Sibia, and former minister Jagjit Singh — have already died. Captain had announced the project in 2003 when he was the chief minister. Practically launched in 2006, the ‘dream project’ of Captain Amarinder was to have shopping malls, multiplexes, and residential apartments. 
 
 
