The  , who confronted and reported the man who tried to molest her in a train recently, was honoured by State Police Chief Loknath Behera on Friday, at the Police Headquarters in Thiruvananthapuram. “Let this incident be a reminder to people that they should change their attitude towards someone in distress. They should think about others and not live only for themselves. We need co-existence in our society today, with both genders helping each other. Those who were with her that day should realise that they could have done something to help her. It could happen to your sister another day,” Behera said.

 Behera also complimented the actress' parents. “This young girl has shown what courage and presence of mind can do and how to handle a crime. Her parents should be congratulated for bringing up a courageous daughter. I appreciate her on behalf of Kerala Police. I am proud of her and her parents. I also congratulate the two people who came forward to help her, a very sensible move. Let this be a beginning and hope she inspires other girls of her age,” he said.
 
 The actress was travelling to Thiruvananthapuram on the Maveli Express, when she was molested by one Anto Bose, a native of Kanyakumari. She caught the attacker and though her co-passengers did nothing, scriptwriter Unni R and a co-passenger Ranjith came to her help and she sought police intervention. “There was no one to help me though there were women too in the compartment, when I cried for help,” she said, adding, “Activism is being restricted to social media nowadays. Everyone is enthusiastic to take videos or photographs of incidents, upload it on social media and feel sympathetic. But in a real-life situation, they don’t react or help the victim.”
 
 Also a civil service aspirant, the young actress said, “I am preparing for the civil service. Following this incident, I received lots of messages from girls who said they have also faced the same issues but didn’t react.
 
 I’m here to encourage them and urge them to react. I want to ask them to fight when faced with something like this. The selfish attitude of our society must change. For a society which is secure and safe for women, the current generation should develop a helping mentality.”
 
 Meanwhile, commenting on her daughter’s boldness, her mother said, “She is a brave child. She also takes care of her little brother. Though the mother in me got scared when I heard about the incident, later I felt happy that my daughter’s act will help other daughters to have the courage to react when somebody tries to harm them.”
 
 
