CHANDIGARH:   Arun Kumar Grover’s remark that people are robbing the university with the help of disgruntled varsity professors is a sign of turbulence below the surface.

 Admitting to the detrimental effects politicking on the functioning of the university, senate member, ambassador I S Chadha said, “People take a stand on issues based on their political affiliations, not on their merits. There have been accusations and scandals but it is impossible to do justice because the wrongdoer is protected by someone influential.”
 The two main groups in the university are the   group and   group. The present syndicate has a majority of the Navdeep Goyal group and two members of the Ashok Goyal group.
 
 On the question of politics affecting the varsity, senate member Navdeep Goyal said, “A few people want the University to run in accordance with their whims and fancies. If the vice-chancellor opposesit, they resort to arm-twisting and create trouble for the University.”
 
 Keshav Malhotra, member of the Ashok Goyal group said, “When people at the helm of affairs decide to function with closed minds or personal agenda, the institution is bound to suffer. Unfortunately, competence and integrity has taken a backseat.”
 
 Groupism was not a feature of the University’s governing bodies till 1988. After that, a rotation group was formed with the idea that the group members would be part of the Syndicate on rotation basis. The group comprised Rajinder Deepa, K S Arya and AshokGoyal. This marked the beginning of groupism in the University. Then there were two groups, the Chatrath group and the rotation group. “Panjab University is a very old institution and has a democratic system of the senate. If you ask people in other universities of Punjab, they would say the vice-chancellor is supreme. At least, here you have a body called senate which can exert pressure on him. Everything has its pros and cons. This politicshas been misused by the VC himself to run the university, which has damagedit,” allegedPUTA president Prof Rajesh Gill.
 
