MUMBAI:  , which like most small towns across India is battling a perennial shortage of specialist doctors, is trying an innovative idea to provide wholesome healthcare to its 2.2 lakh population. 

 
 Leveraging its tag as a ‘weekend getaway’ equidistant from Mumbai and Pune, the town’s administration wants doctors to drive down in groups to conduct camps in Karjat’s sub-district hospitals on Saturdays and Sundays. In return, these ‘weekend doctors’ will get gratitude and free stay in the picturesque town’s hotels.
  
 “We tried this on a smaller scale in Matheran, which has no vehicular access, and met with success,” said   collector Vijay Suryawanshi. He said hotel associations in both Matheran and Karjat are willing to provide free rooms for the doctors to stay over the weekends.
 
 Considering that a survey published on Wednesday in the medical journal, The Lancet, placed India 145th among 195 countries in healthcare access and quality, such innovations are the need of the hour to ensure healthcare for all. India has a poor doctor-patient ratio of 0.62:1,000 as against the World Health Organisation’s recommendation of one doctor per 1,000 population.
 
 
 
 
 Incidentally, the ‘Karjat idea’ went viral when  , a doctor whose NGO Armman works with the Raigad collecterate in the field of maternal and infant mortality, posted it on social media sites Facebook and Twitter on Wednesday. Asking her colleagues from Mumbai and Pune to volunteer to spend one weekend, Dr Hegde wrote, “All patients who need tertiary care need to be referred to hospitals in Panvel which are expensive. And so high-risk factors get missed and patients end up getting transferred to Mumbai too late, leading to mortality.”
 
 
  
 
 She told TOI that private doctors in Karjat are not available over the weekends, making it difficult for patients. “Karjat is just two hours from Mumbai and Pune. Even if specialists such as cardiologists, orthopedic specialists or plastic surgeons come to the sub-district hospital for camps once in three months or so, it would be a great idea,” she said. She has got confirmations from two city doctors to help out at the sub-district hospital.
 
 The sub-district hospital has eight full-time doctors while specialists such as a gynecologist and an anesthetist visit it once a week, but this is far from enough. Most people have to rush to Panvel or   for healthcare. 
 
 Collector Suryawanshi said, “We spoke to doctors’ associations last week and they were willing to volunteer in Karjat.” He said even check-ups as against full-fledged operations would be a big deal for people of Karjat.
 
