GURUGRAM: The long-talked about metro link between Gurgaon and Dwarka in Delhi will not materialise any time in the near future.

 The Manohar Lal Khattar government has approved one of the two proposed routes for the metro line extension but changed its mind yet again and decided to terminate it at Gurgaon railway station, instead of taking it all the way to Dwarka Sector 21 as was suggested earlier.
 
 The approved route starts at Huda City Centre, crosses the NH-8 at Hero Honda Chowk via Subhash Chowk and Netaji Subhash Marg, and goes up to Gurgaon railway station through sectors 37 and 4.
 
 Last year, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had submitted reports suggesting two alternatives — one a 12km route from Huda City Centre, currently the terminal station on the Yellow line, to Gurgaon railway station and the other a full-length corridor right up to Dwarka Sector 21, where DMRC’s Blue and Airport Express lines converge.
 
 The second proposed route was a 27km route, which just like the approved one, was to start at Huda City Centre and go up to Dwarka via Hero Honda Chowk and the railway station. “The government, as of now, has decided to extend the metro services from Huda City Centre to Gurgaon railway station. It feels that the ‘missing link’ (between Dwarka and Gurgaon) can be achieved by connecting the railway station, via sectors 104 and 105, with another proposed Metro corridor that will eventually come up along the Dwarka expressway. However, this can only happen once the diplomatic enclave proposed in Dwarka Sector 24 takes its final shape,” a senior district official told TOI.
 
 The government’s decision has disappointed both Gurgaon and Dwarka residents, who were looking forward to a seamless ride between the two places. Last November, the Haryana government, through the Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), had invited suggestions from the residents, before selecting one of the two routes proposed by DMRC.
 
 Understandably, a majority of the residents were in favour of the route that went up to Dwarka, covering large parts of old Gurgaon.
 
 After a series of consultations with the residents, GMDA had suggested that the proposed route be tweaked a little to avoid crossing the railway tracks at Palam Vihar. Crossing the tracks would require permission from the railways, which it felt, would be a time consuming process that might delay or derail the entire project.
 
 Nevertheless, GMDA officials upset with the government’s decision to terminate the Metro route midway as they believed the link could have been extended till Dwarka without crossing the railway tracks. “A Metro link between Gurgaon and Dwarka is the need of the hour. Apart from daily commuters, it would have also provided a convenient commuting option to Gurgaon residents going to the IGI airport. The city has an abundance of regular air travellers as well flight crew members,” said a senior GMDA official.
 
 He added Noida, which is around 50km away from the IGI airport, was at the cusp of getting a direct Metro connectivity to the airport. 
 
 On the other hand, Gurgaon, despite being so close to the airport, has been waiting indefinitely for this crucial access. “This is a retrograde step. The Metro link with Dwarka would have helped address the traffic problems faced by this city every day,” he added. 
 
 
