In the city for the first time after his wedding to Lucknow girl  , actor   made the most of his three-day visit here. "We are coming here for the first time since our wedding. The last time I was here was to talk about our wedding with Pankhuri's parents," shared an excited Gautam, who was last seen in the mythological drama ' '. Telling us more about the visit to his sasural, Gautam added, "We came to Lucknow for a small pooja that was organised for the two of us by Pankhuri's parents. Even though I have been to Lucknow earlier for professional reasons, I never really got the time to explore the city. And this time when I did, I must say I was really impressed by the cleanliness here, which can rarely be seen in other cities. I went to a cafe in Gomti Nagar with Pankhuri and every where I went, I saw the roads so clean. Also, thankfully, when we came here, the weather was also pleasant because of the sudden thunderstorm and rains."

  
  Pankhuri Awasthy showing something to hubby Gautam Rode at her old school, the La Martinere Girls’ College (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
 However, the most memorable part about Gautam's visit was visiting Pankhuri's alma mater   Girls' College. "It feels so nice to come back to my school with Gautam. I was just telling him that studying in this school was a like a mandate for us as in our family – my grandfather, father, brother, sister, all of have studied in La Martiniere schools," said Pankhuri, who was last seen in the serial ' ?'
 The two went around the school where Pankhuri showed Gautam the classrooms she had studied in, the basketball court and also the tree where the school gong was hung. "The school is really grand, just like Lucknow," exclaimed Gautam while strolling about the campus. "I wish I could ring this bell but the classes are still going on," laughed Pankhuri, as the two posed for us near the bell.
 And while Pankhuri showed him the school in all excitement, Gautam was mostly quiet as he went around with his wife. "Between the two of us, Gautam is the extrovert. But he has many facets to his personality. And it all depends on his mood. But we both handle each other's mood swings quite efficiently," laughed Pankhuri.
 Both Gautam and Pankhuri have been missing from the small screen for quite sometime now. When asked about their future plans, the couple said that they are working on a project of their own. "I am working on concept tentatively titled Mitti with a Sanjay Wadhwa, a producer friend of mine," said Gautam, adding, "The backdrop is Kashmir, sports and patriotism. It is my concept and not only will I be acting in it, I will also be the key creative producer. Everything is done now and I just need to sell the concept to a GEC. Pankhuri is definitely a part of the show in many ways. Creatively we have been working together on the show. Not many people know that Pankhuri is very good at writing, she is very good with lines. So one of the major lines of this particular show is given by her."
 
  
  Gautam Rode and Pankhuri Awasthy at La Martinere Girls’ College (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
 Talking of collaborating creatively, we wondered if the newlyweds have a creative tiff, ever. "Of course we do have a lot of tiffs while writing for this show. But the best part about being actors and married to each other is that you can discuss work and take feedback from each other. My partner is very upfront about her feedback. So I can add and subtract a lot of things going by her suggestions," said Gautam. 
 Both Pankhuri and Gautam met on the sets of Suryaputra Karn. When asked if they will be sharing screen space in this serial, Gautam replied, "That all depends on how the girl's character in the serial shapes up. But we still have to decide if Pankhuri will be acting with me or not," he added. 
 — Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
  
 
 
