Mumbai: The gems, jewellery and diamond ( ) industry in the country, with exports in excess of $40 billion (about Rs 2.6 lakh crore), is moving to a self-regulation mode to regain some of its lost reputation due to the Nirav Modi-Mehul Choksi scam. 

 Gems & Jewellery Export Promotion Council ( ), the premier industry trade body, is reaching out to stakeholders in the government, banks, outside suppliers and customers, to apprise them of the various steps that the GJD industry is taking to weed out the rogue elements who have made a major dent in the industry’s reputation. 
 
 GJEPC has especially approached   to help them with the valuation of inventory of precious stones and diamonds. The members of the council are also negotiating with banks about the magnitude of collateral the lenders could ask for from industry players under normal business conditions. According to GJEPC VC Colin Shah, unlike gold and silver, valuations of diamonds and precious stones are a tricky process, and hence bankers are extra cautious about lending to the GJD industry.
 
 “We are going to apprise the bankers about specific risks which emanate from the (GJD) industry given the nature of industry,” said Shah. Some of the council members and top officers will also work with banks to smoothen the process of flow of money from banks to industry players. “One of the main objectives is to work closely with banks and to plug loopholes in the system from the inside,” Shah said.
 
 The council has also put in place an exhaustive database christened My KYC Bank that has information about all the players in the GJD industry — from across the globe, their subsidiaries, affiliations to industry associations, and their financial and registration antecedents. This database is being used by all its members to gather information about their counter party abroad before entering into any trade transaction. 
 
 GJEPC executive director, “The council will also give all the relevant data to the banks. This, along with the use of My KYC Bank, is going to mitigate risks for our members while they enter into export-import transactions.”
 
 
