BENGALURU:   on Tuesday upsized the scale of fraud committed by a   to Rs 400 crore as at least 200 people turned up at JP Nagar, Jayanagar and Basavanagudi police stations alleging they had been cheated by the company.

 “We have decided to register FIRs based on each individual complaint against Vikram Investments. We’re expecting hundreds of FIRs from Wednesday and have asked our stations to swiftly register them,” a senior police officer said. Police said the firm is suspected to have cheated 1,776 persons.
 
 “The fraud amounts to around Rs 400 crore. This is if investors consider the returns they got and treat it as part of the principal they had invested. Else, the fraud will be bigger,” another police officer said.
 
 Vikram Investments founder-director Raghavendra Srinath, who would get people to park huge sums of money in his firm, had been paying the promised high returns to old investors from fresh investments. “He said he had invested a part of the money he collected from investors in onion, chilli, copper, zinc and gold, among other commodities. We’re not sure of the quantum of this investment yet,” the police officer said.
 
 Quoting preliminary investments, the officer said the firm took investments from celebrities through above-the-board online transfers. He said they’re checking whether celebrities from other fields, including the film industry, had also invested.
 
 Police confirmed that Srinath had no licence to trade in commodities. They had no RBI permission too, police said, adding that income-tax officials are likely to join the probe soon. According to them, Srinath paid his wealth managers a 12.5% commisson on investments they brought.
 
 The case may transferred to the CID, which has a designated wing for economic offences, considering the huge money involved in the case. As per procedure, any cheating case involving Rs 5 crore or more has to be investigated by the CID. The case may be transferred to the CID after March 17, when the 14-day police custody of the accused ends.
 
 “Three police teams are investigating the case. We’ll reveal the outcome within a few days,” SD Sharanappa, DCP (South division) said.
 
 
