MADURAI: As many as seven people died and several others suffered injuries in two road accidents in Dindigul and Theni districts of   on Sunday.

 The first accident happened in the early hours of Sunday. Two people who survived a road accident involving an omnibus and a man who was helping the passengers were fatally knocked down by another omnibus near Dindigul around 1am.
 
 Police said an omnibus with 39 passengers was going from Kerala to Bengaluru. The driver of the bus allegedly slept at the wheel when the bus reached   in Dindigul district around 1am, and the vehicle overturned. All the passengers managed to escape from the vehicle. Some of them sustained minor injuries.
 
  Jose,28, of Mundakayam in Kottayam in Kerala, and his friend Ani, 49, who were travelling in a van behind the omnibus, stopped their vehicle to help the injured passengers.
 
 Jilumon, the rescued passengers and others were standing on the roadside when another omnibus that was going from Kanyakumari to Bangalore hit them.
 
 Rajan,70, of Nariamparai in Kerala and Biju S,35, of Sithalakattu near Kollam, both passengers in the overturned omnibus, died on the spot. Jilumon died on the way to Dindigul Government Hospital.
 
 Ten people, who sustained injuries, were admitted to Dindigul Government Hospital.
 
 The Vedasandur police registered a case.
 
 In the second incident, four people died and several others suffered injuries when a car collided with a van at Thimmasaranayakkanur in Theni district on Sunday afternoon. The accident happened when one of the tyres of the car burst.
 
 The deceased have been identified as car passengers Jayalakshmi,42, of Arapadidevanpatti and Suvitha, 19, and passengers in the van Ramar,21 and Chellamuthu,29, of M Kallupatti.
 
 The passengers in the van were returning to Madurai after attending a wedding at Allinagaram in Theni district. The car was going from Madurai to Theni.
 
 The injured were admitted to government hospitals in Theni and Madurai.
 
 
