CHENNAI: Even as the government deputed its ministers across the state to explain the rationale behind the steep bus fare hike, which it said was triggered by severe losses suffered by transport corporations, spike in prices of spare parts, and a wage revision that had hit the bottom-line, chief minister   on Saturday said the 'inevitable'   comes seven years after diesel prices rose nearly 50% over the same period and sought people's cooperation. At least 65% of the fleet operated in the rural areas make losses, he said. 

 While all the opposition parties - including the DMK that has planned to hold agitations at district headquarters on January 27 - condemned the hike, confusion reigned among passengers and staff, with even some conductors of government and private buses unsure about the new fares. 
 
 In Chennai, passengers of a   bus bound from   to   entered into a verbal brawl with the conductor after coming to know about the increase in fare. 
 
 Many of these daily-wage labourers had to be asked to get down as they did not carry enough money to pay the revised fare, said a police official. 
 
 Sporadic demonstrations were reported in and around Chennai besides protests by political parties in the suburbs, particularly in Tiruvallur. 
 
 
 
 
 Some MTC conductors issued multiple tickets to account for the new denominations as the new set of tickets was yet to be printed.
 
 However, conductors using electronic ticketing machines had no problems as the devices were re-calibrated on Saturday morning, said an MTC official. “We are not planning to print tickets for revised fares anymore. Soon, ETMs will be provided to all MTC buses,” he said.
 
 There was also uncertainty over the validity of MTC season passes. Those with monthly (Rs1,000) or weekly (Rs
 
 300) passes (under the Travel As You Please scheme) can use it till they expire with no additional cost, said an MTC release.
 
 In 2011, the last time bus fares were hiked, such pass holders were asked to pay the additional cost, sparking an uproar.
 
 On Saturday, daily passes (Rs 50) were not available at all ticket counters and passengers dependent on them had to take a local train to reach an intermediate point before boarding MTC buses.
 
 Many passengers were taken aback by the increase. “A ride from Ambattur Industrial Estate to Lucas, hardly 5km away, used to cost Rs 7. On Saturday, I had to pay Rs13,” said D Kannan of Padi.
 
 An MTC official said the confusion would end within three days, adding that conductors were told not to argue with passengers and instead explain the revised rates to them.
 
 
 
