Vadodara: Jayesh Patel, founder and former president of Waghodiya-based Parul University, who is in jail for allegedly raping nursing student of the university, was denied bail by a sessions court here recently. Patel had applied for bail on January 6 saying that he had not been keeping well and circumstances in the case have changed since the trial has progressed. In his bail application, Patel had told the court that he has been in judicial custody since 18 months during which 22 witnesses out of total 123 have been examined in the course of trial.  It was also submitted that he had not been keeping well and suffering from hardships and was ready to follow the conditions that will be put forth by court. Patel also assured in his plea that he will not tamper with evidence. During the hearing, Patel’s lawyer argued that important evidence in the case has been recorded and considering his freedom and status, his client be allowed bail. The special prosecutor in the case, opposing the application argued that Patel has not produced any evidences regarding his recent medical treatment. It was also argued that the father and fiancé of the girl are yet to be examined and never the prosecution tried to prolong the trial. The court while deciding on the plea also observed that at the time of framing of charges, Patel was not ready for it and had given application for adjournment. The court, while turning down the plea, also mentioned in the order that the trial of the case is not progressing slowly and the advocate of Patel has been asking for date as per his convenience and since material witnesses are yet to be examined there is no ground in favour in Patel. In the past too Patel had filed bail in the sessions court which was rejected and then in the High Court on the medical grounds which was also rejected. Girl examined during trial During trial in the rape case, court has so far examined 22 witnesses out of 123. The complainant girl too was examined during the hearings. However, what had transcribed during her examination has not been known. In the upcoming hearings, the court will also examine the girl’s father and her husband who was her fiancé when the crime was committed.