HYDERABAD : For the first time, the question paper of the  ,   ( ) will be made available in   besides English and Telugu.

 
  
 Speaking at the schedule release of Eamcet 2018 — to be held between May 2 and May 7 — the officials said keeping Urdu medium students in mind, they decided to include the option of the language. If students opt for the option, they will get questions in English and Urdu instead of English and Telugu.
 
 As per the scheduled released, online submission of application forms will begin from March 4 and last date to apply without a late fee is April 4. The candidates can correct online application data from April 6 to 9 and hall tickets can be downloaded from April 20 to May 1.
 
 “We are expecting about one-and-a-half lakh candidates to appear for the exam. As we have resources to accommodate only 25, 000 candidates at one time, the exam will be conducted in different slots between May 2 and May 7. Also, unlike every year, we are going to conducted Agriculture and Pharmacy (AM) exam this year before Engineering stream so that students can also appear for NEET on May 6,” said T Papi Reddy, chairman,   (TSCHE), adding TCS has been given responsibility of conducting the exam.
 
 The officials said that just like in other online exams, ‘normalization formula’ will be used to rank students and said that more information about said method will be placed in the website so that students will know how they are ranked.
 
 The convener of TS Eamcet N Yadaiah said provisional key will be released two days after the exam and added students will get their response sheet on the same day.
 
 “This year, we made it compulsory to have an email id to apply for Eamcet and will be communicating all the information via mails to students. Response sheets (question paper, along with the answer the student has marked and correct answer) will be sent to students on May 9 and three days will be given to raise objection,” said Yadaiah, adding that results will be declared in second or third week of May.
 
 Keeping the increasing cost of conducting the exam in mind, it was said that registration fee for AM and engineering stream has been increased from ₹250 to ₹400 for SC/ST students and ₹500 to ₹800 for other students.
 
 Schedule of Ecet 2018 and Pgecet 2018 were also released at JNTU on Monday.
 
 
