HYDERABAD: A 45-year-old Hyderabad woman continues to languish in Pakistan despite external affairs minister   ensuring she got a visa from the Pakistan government to fly back to India and promising to take care of her airfare.

 Mohammadi Begum’s mother Hajra Begum and father   are now worried about the safety of their daughter, who lives in Sialkot, Pakistan, as their son-in-law has been reportedly threatening her with dire consequences if she persisted in her efforts to leave him and go back to India.
 
 “A few days ago, my daughter called up and wept copiously. Her husband is troubling her a lot. Officials of the Indian High Commission in Islamabad should go to the place where she lives and rescue her. They should take the help of the local police if necessary. That is the only way my daughter can hope to be freed from her husband’s clutches,” Mohammadi Begum's father   told TOI on Thursday.
  
  
 In 1996, Mohammadi Begum got married to Mohammad Younus, with the nikah being performed over the phone. Thereafter, she flew to Oman where Younus was residing then. However, later she found out that he was a Pakistani national.
 
 After residing in Oman for 14 years, he took her to Pakistan, where she has been living since. Once in Pakistan, the man allegedly started abusing her.
 
 Mohammadi Begum, who has five children, recently put out a   video narrating her tale of woes. After TOI reported about her plight, the Indian external affairs ministry got Pakistan to issue her a visa so that she could visit India.
 
 The visa was issued on November 9, 2017, but expired on December 16, 2017. Two days prior to the visa expiry,   Swaraj had also said that Mohammadi Begum’s air ticket would also be taken care of if money was a hurdle to her return to India.
 
 “After saying that he was not willing to pay for her air fare, Younus is now even refusing to send her back. We are not aware if the Indian High Commission in Islamabad can go to their house. My daughter is not allowed to come out of the house and is not aware if anyone came at all,” Mohammad Akbar said.
 
 Asked about the expiry of the visa, he said his daughter would have to get her visa extended again so that she can travel to India. Her Indian passport too had expired and she would be able to travel on an emergency passport but her husband was unwilling to let her go.
 
 Meanwhile, some Pakistani citizens also said they were willing to pay for Mohammadi Begum’s air tickets, if required. On Twitter, one person said he was willing to meet the expenditure and gave his telephone number. Nawab W Ejaz, another Pakistani citizen, said: “Pakistan government will help your daughter. Some people are bad, not all Pakistan. I request Pakistan government and Punjb government to help Mohammadi Begum,” he said.
 
 
