INDORE: District administration will carry out re-densification of  , increasing facilities for public and bringing offices of different departments under one roof.

 A proposal in this regard was cleared by chief secretary (CS) BP Singh on Friday, collector Nishant Warwade, who held a meeting in Bhopal with CS, told TOI.
 
 As per the plan, MP Housing and   (MPHIDB) will develop a ground + three-storeyed building of tehsil office and will make available the required furniture for office use.
 
 “The building will incorporate the offices of additional superintendent of police (ASP), woman and child department, treasury, agriculture and other departments concerned. Besides, the building will have proper sitting facility for the visitors and provision for record room,” SDM, Pratul Sinha told TOI.
 
 He said that the board will also develop quarters for officers and Class III, IV employees and existing quarters, which are in dilapidated condition, will be demolished.
 
 “As per the plan, there will be two blocks i.e. office building and residential quarters at the same compound in Tehsil Colony. Against the entire re-densification of Mhow tehsil’s office that will cost around Rs 20 crore, the board will get a land and will develop a commercial market to recover its cost,” Sinha said.
 
 He said that administration has availability of around 5 hectare land. Half of it will be used for commercial-cum-residential project of Mhow tehsil office while the remaining part will be handed over to the housing board for building the commercial market.
 
 “After getting nod from the district level committee, the proposal has also been passed by a committee in Bhopal. A detailed project report (DPR) will now be sent to the state government and after receiving its nod, the work will be started” Sinha said.
 
 Similarly, the senior administrative official gave their nod for re-densification of a land, situated in Siyaganj, of excise department. The construction work will be carried out by the housing board.
 
 
