NOIDA: The impending change in the management of the   with the state government’s decision to take it over and the slow progress of the construction of a new building have stalled several projects at the facility.

 Although the Noida Authority is supposed to fund the operations of the Sector 30 hospital till March 31, after which the government will take it over, it has stopped paying for some ongoing initiatives. Officials said it had also scrapped the tender for installing a blood-component separation unit in July.
 
 Sources in the hospital said the installation of the blood unit would have helped patients get blood at a much nominal cost. The Authority had in 2016 issued the tender for the blood-separator unit, which is expected to cost around Rs 50-60 lakh, but scrapped the process after the government decided in December last year to take over the hospital. “The Authority has scrapped the tender process. We have written to the Authority in this regard but haven’t received any reply,” chief medical superintendent of the hospital Ajay Agrawal said.
 
 For the lack of tenders, even low-cost projects, such as buying coloured bedsheets, are also stuck While government hospitals in Lucknow and Meerut have already ensured that the beedsheets are changed every day, state health minister   had pointed out during an inspection in August last year that the district health facility was lacking in this aspect. With the Authority allegedly reluctant to issue any new tender in the wake of the impending change in management, the progress of the new building at Sector 39, where the hospital is slated to shift, has also been affected. As a result, officials said, the hospital is still awaiting an accreditation from the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals. According to sources, the hospital will have to apply afresh for the accreditation, even after spending Rs7 crore in the earlier process. The new building has already missed an earlier deadline of May 2017, and officials fear the project might not be completed even by December this year at the current pace. “It took over a year to issue tenders for electrification and air-conditioning and there are several others that are yet to be placed. Even if the tenders are placed in the near future, it will take at least six months to complete the process. At the current pace, the hospital will take another two years to shift,” an official said.
 
 Started in 2014, the new building was supposed to complete in three years.
 
 Officials in the Authority denied scrapping the tender for installing the blood-component unit. “I am not aware of any such issue,” said Manmohan Mishra, the financial controller of the Authority.
 
 Told about the delay in the construction of the new building, Authority chief engineer Hom Singh Yadav said: “The project has been delayed because two separate divisions — civil and electrical — have to complete the tender process. We were getting very high tenders. We were not getting a go-ahead from the state government.”
 
 
