 CHINCHWAD: Nearly 20 days ago,   Shaikh’s life came to a standstill. Soon after admitting her to the intensive care unit (ICU) of the   (YCM) Hospital in Pimpri, her husband   abandoned the family. 

 He even left behind her young children — a nine-year-old boy and a seven-year-old girl. With no one to take care of the kids, they would have to be sent to an orphanage. Ruksana, a resident of Vaijapur in Aurangabad, was left shattered.
 
 On Thursday, however, the 35-year-old had a reason to smile. Thanks to a sustained effort by the police, a social organization and the health department of the  , the children were reunited with Ruksana’s family members from Aurangabad.
 
 MA  , chief trustee of the social organization Real Life Real People, shared, “Ruksana was admitted to YCM Hospital on April 28 by her husband. He later abandoned her as well as the two children. Ruksana has been admitted to the ICU as she is suffering from uterine cancer.”
 
 With no one around to take care of the two children and Ruksana, Real Life Real People stepped in to help. “We are looking after the children and their ailing mother. We have contacted the Vaijapur police to get in touch with her family members,” said Hussain.
 
 The organization also coordinated with hospital officials and PCMC’s additional medical officer of health Pavan Salve to help give Ruksana the best treatment. 
 
 “We had decided to wait for a few days so as to locate Ruksana’s family members and hand over the children to them. If we had failed to find the family members, we would have to sent the children to an orphanage as per the law.”
 
 In the meanwhile, however, the Vaijapur police also swung into action and managed to trace Ruksana’s mother as well as brother. They also located her former husband Raju Solase, who is the father of the two children.
 
 “Ruksana’s family members informed us that they are very poor and could not afford the travel expenses to reach Pimpri. They said that they would readily accept the responsibility of the children,” said Hussain. Real Life Real People then ensured Ruksana’s family members were able to travel to the city and meet her at the hospital. “We will also take care of expenses related to Ruksana’s treatment,” informed Hussain.
 
 Salve added, “We will try to provide all medical as well as other help to the ailing cancer patient.”
 
 
