NEW DELHI: The next time you visit the Red Fort, you would walk through a grand arcade. The ceiling of the historic  , which was once adorned with the most exquisite paintings, is getting some of its former glory back. 

 This original   art is being painstakingly exposed and conserved by the science branch of Archaeological Survey of India. Conservation of the paintings started in early October last year, and it would take a few more months to complete. The beautiful floral and geometric patterns had been covered by multiple layers of lime plaster laid out over the years. 
 
 But the process to peel off the plasterwork is not easy. Unless it’s done with complete precision, there is risk of damage. “In each painting that is being exposed, up to seven layers of lime coating have been found at some points. And each layer has to be very carefully removed to ensure the original painting is not harmed in any way,” said an official. 
 
  
  
 ASI officials report that the frequent use of lime coat over the years in the fort, particularly during preparations for August 15, and painting work by the shop owners of Chatta Bazaar, hid the paintings. “We trace impressions of the paintings wherever we can see or detect them, and then slowly work to remove the layers of lime to expose the paintings. And the plaster is slowly peeled away,” said an official. 
 
 Exposing the facade of Chatta Bazaar was planned in an effort to bring out the original design of the citadel. A major challenge here is to decide which layer of the painting should be exposed. “Some paintings have single layers. But some paintings also have multiple layers. In such cases, we usually keep the uppermost layer exposed even if there are more layers beneath. After all, each layer of painting is part of the fort’s history. Every effort is made to preserve whatever is available,” said an ASI official.
 
 Exposing each painting depends on the condition of the lime plaster. At some points, the plaster is thicker and at others it’s thinner that makes scraping it away easier.
 
 ASI hopes to unearth new, hidden information about the Red Fort from these exposed paintings. Through the centuries, Red Fort has undergone many changes. Historians say the fort is witness to many historical events, and each change within the fort is monumental to look back. “The paintings over the Chatta Bazaar are similar testaments to many years of being under different rulers. Each painting tells a different story and we would like visitors to be able to view these paintings as well,” said an official. 
 
 
