JANAAGRAHA SURVEY

 Chandigarh: The quality of governance in Chandigarh has been rated one of the worst among 23 Indian cities in a  , the results of which were made public on Wednesday.
 
 Of the 23 cities, Chandigarh has been placed at the bottom at number 22, scoring 3.1 marks out of a total of 10, in the annual survey of India’s city-systems (ASICS), 2017, conducted by the Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy, a Bengaluru-based non-profit institution.
 
 While Pune has been ranked number 1 with 5.1 marks, Bengaluru is at the rock bottom, with a score of 3.
 
 Chandigarh has been given one of the poorest ratings in the annual survey that evaluates the quality of governance in Indian cities primarily on the basis of three factors — decline in revenue generation, lack of city sanitation plan and lack of autonomy for Chandigarh municipal corporation in budget approval process.
 
 The report states that the municipal corporation’s revenue generation has been one of the lowest among all the Indian cities and this has impacted the quality of governance in Chandigarh.
 
 “If the local bodies don’t earn enough, they will have a problem in running the administration smoothly and Chandigarh MC’s revenue has been dipping for years now. The MC has also failed to create fresh sources of income,” said Anil Nair, head, advocacy, Janaagraha.
 
 The Chandigarh MC has been facing its worst financial crisis ever with its revenue dropping from Rs 169.68 crore to Rs 107.06 crore in 2017 and its fixed deposits (FD) coming down from Rs 448.62 crore to Rs 154.77 crore in 2017.
 
 The report goes on to say that besides decreasing revenue, a lack of autonomy in deciding annual budget allocations for its projects.
 
 The MC has been raising this issue for a long time and has accused UT administration of being biased in allocating funds many times, stating this hampers the MC’s developmental and other initiatives, including improving quality of governance.
 
 The Janaagraha report further states that the Chandigarh MC also doesn’t have a proper sanitation plan unlike other cities and is one of the reasons why it fared so badly in the survey report.
 
 Last year, the MC had spent around Rs 2 crore for buying dustbins for its source segregation initiative but failed to implement it till date despite several awareness campaigns.
 
 Also, the MC had fought a battle with JP Associates over garbage processing at its plant in Dadumajra resulting in the closure of the plant for some days. Even the work on a compost plant for processing bio-degradable waste ordered by the National Green Tribunal inside the garbage processing plant is yet to start.
 
 The report also gives poor marks to Chandigarh in other survey parameters including transparency, accountability, a lack of legislature, weak local body, and lack of citizen participation etc.
 
 When contacted, MC commissioner Jitender Yadav refused to comment saying “I am not aware of any such report.”
 
 Box: Why at the bottom
 
 Lack of proper sanitation plan
 
 Dipping revenue and failure to generate fresh sources of income
 
 Lack of autonomy in deciding annual budget allocations for its projects and initiatives
 
 Lack of transparency
 
 Lack of accountability
 
 Lack of citizen participation
 
 Very unfortunate: Mayor
 
 I will like to first go through the report and then make any comment. But if it is so, then it’s very unfortunate. But we have done remarkable job in terms of generating our revenue in past few months, and in the field of sanitation. Besides, we will take public feedback for better results
 
 Davesh Moudgil, mayor, Chandigarh MC
 
 Top 5
 
 City Score Rank
 
 Pune | 5.1 | 1
 
 Kolkata 4.6 | 2
 
 Thiruvananthapuram | 4.6 | 3
 
 Bhubansewar | 4.6 | 4
 
 Surat | 4.5 | 5
 
 Box
 
 Bottom 5
 
 City Score Rank
 
 Bengaluru | 3 | 23
 
 Chandigarh | 3.1 | 22
 
 Dehradun | 3.1 | 21
 
 Patna | 3.3 |20
 
 Chennai | 3.3 |19
 
 Total parameters | 89
 
 Cities: 23 from 20 states
 
 
