QUEPEM: More than two decades after water from the   dam started flowing from taps in houses of thousands of residents in  , those displaced by the project are yet to receive adequate water supply.

 After the Selaulim Irrigation Project was initiated in mid-1970s, displaced villagers from Curdi and other small villages on the southern and south-western side of the catchment area were rehabilitated in the dam’s eastern areas, especially Vaddem and Valkini. 
 
 Having already lost their houses and agricultural land, the villagers are deprived of even the basic requirement of water, despite living about 5 to 8km from the project area. The dam caters to most of South Goa talukas and 20% of  .
 
 “Water was being brought in tankers till sometime ago. Though we have a pipeline, water flows for hardly half an hour,” said Prakash Naik, a resident of   No 1.
 
 Independent MLA from Sanguem, Prasad Gaonkar, said no legislators from this constituency had been given a ministerial berth nor had they been able to tackle the water scarcity issue. 
 
 “People have sacrificed their houses and agricultural land for the dam, but their conditions haven’t improved,” Gaonkar said.
 
 His rival in the last assembly election and   candidate, Savitri Kavlekar, said “Water supply in 50% of the areas leaves much to be desired. There was a proposal for a 5-MLD plant, but we have heard that there are plans to reduce it’s capacity to 2-MLD,” she said.
 
 In nearby Valkini, the fate of the rehabilitated persons is as bad. “We do get tap water supply, but face problems on a daily basis as it is irregular and inadequate,” said   a resident of Valkini Colony No 2.
 
 Though most of the displaced villagers have been allotted land to build houses and for cultivation, many are yet receive their due, Gaonkar said. He added 89 displaced families, who have not received their land, have their files pending before the government. The government had promised each of the families a 400 sqm plot for housing and 10,000 sqm agricultural land. 
 
 Gaonkar said every household in Sanguem should receive water from the Selaulim dam and not bore wells.
 
 
