GURUGRAM: Bakhtawar Chowk became a test junction on Tuesday for a group of road engineers who attended the Vision Zero  . 

 Their analysis revealed a few   errors, including extending median space, lack of reflectors/bullnose barriers to guide   at night, modifying footpaths, making junctions compact, zebra crossings hindered by high medians among other suggestions. 
 
 The idea behind the workshop was to suggest design changes at the traffic junction keeping in mind the convenience of motorists, pedestrians, including eldery people and differently abled. “The extra spaces near the left turns are unnecessary,” said an engineer from MCG who had joined the workshop that saw the participation of 60-odd engineers from different government departments. 
 
 
  
 The facilitator,  , who works with the sustainable cities programme of WRI India, said the extra spaces near the left turns could be used as a refuge island for pedestrians where they could wait before crossing the road. A couple of engineers observed that if the police check post — which stood in the middle of the road — could be removed, vehicles would move in an organised manner. 
 
 Another observation made by the team was the tendency of   drivers to take an illegal turn (where the medians end) and drive on the wrong-side of the road. “If these medians are extended till the crossing, these illegal U-turns can be checked,” said another engineer.
 
 An MCG engineer, minutes into visiting the junction defined two major infrastructural problems affecting pedestrian movement. One being the median height which is a feet in height at the intersection of two zebra crossings and no pedestrian time included in the traffic signal cycle. 
 
 Some of the other issues observed were the road alignment, need for bullnose or reflectors on the median edges and reducing the height of footpaths. 
 
 However, the  , which was organising the workshop along with transport department, said that the engineers’ suggestions would be kept as a reference.
 
 
