Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has directed the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) to complete the investigation in the two-year-old case pending against former mining secretary Ashok Singhvi and   officials in the alleged irregularity in the rock phosphate mining in Udaipur by March 21. 

 The single bench of Justice Bhanwarilal Sharma gave the direction during the hearing of a petition by lawyer Ajay Kumar Jain.
 
 In September 2015, an ACB probe had revealed that IAS officer Ashok Singhvi, the then mining secretary (arrested then in the multi-crore bribery case) had allegedly benefitted  , a subsidiary of Vedanta-owned Sterlite Industries.
 
 Later, ACB registered an FIR in the matter based on its own preliminary probe. Lawyer A K Jain later filed a petition in the high court alleging that despite a preliminary enquiry and a subsequent FIR, the investigation in the matter has not progressed at all.
 
 The ACB probe found that on November 1, 2006, Singhvi first ordered revocation of a lease granted to Hindustan Zinc Ltd (HZL) when it was a government of India-owned company. The next day, the mines department took possession of the mine.
 
 When HZL, which had by then been acquired by Vedanta’s Sterlite Industries, moved the high court against the government’s order, the mining department put up a solid defence with a caveat.
 
 But in October 2008, Singhvi allegedly prevailed on his department to withdraw the government’s case from the high court and restored the lease to HZL “causing the state government a direct loss of over Rs 600 crore,” stated the report on the probe conducted by ACB.
 
 While rock phosphate in the state can only be mined by   and Minerals Limited (RSMML), the state government had granted one mining lease to HZL, when it was still a state-owned company, on the “condition that it would only sell to Rajasthan State Mines Minerals Ltd (RSMML), a state government undertaking.”
 
 However, on April 11, 2002, shortly after the lease was renewed for 10 years, HZL was acquired by Sterlite Opportunities & Ventures Limited, promoted by Sterlite Industries India Ltd, a subsidiary of Vedanta, under the then NDA government’s disinvestment drive.
 
 According to the ACB’s preliminary probe, HZL violated the government’s lease terms, including operating without environment clearance and inviting bids for mining and sold 1 lakh metric tonne of rock phosphate which was the sole right of RSMML.
 
 
