Visakhapatnam: Marine environment experts have warned that block plantations of  , which were once used as buffers against cyclonic winds along the East Coast, could actually be responsible for large scale   of the Visakhapatnam beach coast.

 The experts believe that casuarina block plantations, which are found on the Visakhapatnam, Bheemili coastline, could be responsible for beach erosion, and pointed out that nearly 50 per cent of the coastline stretch (extending over 28 kilometres) was full of casuarina block plantations, covering over 3,000 acres along the beach stretch.
 
 Marine environment expert Panchagnula Hareesh Chandra, who did his research on marine environment from Andhra University, said: “Casuarina block plantations were originally done because they could act as wind-breakers in cyclone-prone areas. To that extent they were okay. However, these plantations have a tendency to desertify, reducing the water table levels drastically. More importantly, they loosen the beach soil texture and do not allow for vertical piling of sand.”
 
 Chandra said research on the ill-effects of casuarina was conducted in  , where it was planted extensively to serve the purpose of wind-breaking. 
 
 “The studies revealed that casuarina is directly responsible for beach erosion as is now being seen in Visakhapatnam,” he added.
 
 Prof A J Solomon Raju of the Department of Environment Studies, Andhra University, observed that the damage done by casuarina plantations had far reaching consequences. “Causarina plantations deplete water levels, resulting in seawater seepage into the inland area. More importantly, after the plantations are cut down seasonally, much of the loose beach soil is consumed by the sea as casuarina wipes out all native vegetation on the dunes, being an invasive species,” Prof Raju said.
 
 Chandra further said that as a result, casuarina directly aids in soil erosion, apart from abetting seepage of seawater into freshwater aqueducts, just off the coast. He pointed out that casuarina plantations have played an important role in wiping out estuaries and mangroves on the Bhimili coastline. The experts pointed that 80 acres of mangroves along the Vizag-Bhimili coast have been destroyed along with the low-lying wetlands, partly because of the invasive nature of casuarina. 
 
 
