KOTTAYAM: The   will announce a national   after taking into account the concerns of the farmers,   K J Alphons Kannanthanam said here on Sunday.

 Addressing a gathering of farmers and representatives of organizations in the rubber sector, Kannanthanam said the Union minister for commerce, Suresh Prabhu, would convene a meeting with farmers here before framing the policy.
 
 Most participants, however, objected to the announcement of another meeting.
 
 The   has been a long-pending demand of the farmers.
 
 The junior minister, however, did not set a specific timeframe for the meeting or the announcement of the policy.
 
 “The officials will take note of the suggestions of farmers and stakeholders and will brief the minister,” Kannanthanam said, while rubbishing reports about a move to repeal the Rubber Act.
 
 Several suggestions, including one to raise the minimum support price of rubber to Rs 200 a kilogram, came up before the minister on Sunday.
 
 Jose K Mani, MP, and former chairman of the Rubber Board, P C Cyriac, advocated for applying the safeguard duty to protect rubber farmers.
 
 Majority of the participants voiced concern over the proposed import of cup lump rubber and urged the government to withdraw from the move, which they felt would ruin the natural rubber farming in the country.
 
  Kannanthanam was accompanied by a joint secretary-level team comprising joint secretary (ministry of commerce) Santosh Kumar Sarangi and director of plantations Anita Karn.
 
 Other issues raised included distribution of subsidy for rubber planting and re-planting, exempting rubber producer societies from GST, restriction of import, making rubber an agricultural product, filling up the post of chairman, secretary and rubber producer commissioner in the rubber board.
 
 Objecting to Kannanthanam’s announcement of another meeting with the Union commerce minister, participants said a similar meeting was held here on November 11 last, in which the same issues were raised.
 
 Cyriac told the minister that the farmers were not interested in more meetings and they needed action.
 
 
