Pune: The decision to build Shivsrushti on a biodiversity park (BDP) land in the Chandni Chowk area has stoked the debate if construction should be allowed in the restricted area. “If the government uses BDP land for constructing Shivsrushti, there should not be any injustice to the individuals having land in the biodiversity park. They should also be allowed to construct on their plots,” said Sudhir Kulkarni of Nagari Hakka Samiti, a citizens’ group. He said the state government had taken a decision to restrict construction within a 100ft area around hilltops and hill slopes. This decision should be withdrawn, he said. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday announced to allot 50 acres land for the Shivsrushti project — a permanent exhibition depicting the life of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. The land would be given in the biodiversity park area in Chandni Chowk. According to the elected members of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the project would be executed on survey 99 and 100 — currently under BDP. A group of elected members earlier demanded that building permissions should be given in the restricted areas. The environment activists opposed the demand. “The issue of BDP should be sorted out in such a manner that local landowners don’t suffer. At least 10 % construction should be allowed and the biodiversity loss can be mitigated by planting trees. If the land is left vacant, it will lead to encroachments,” said PMC corporator and former chairman of PMC’s biodiversity committee, Sachin Dodke. Aneeta Gokhale Benninger, an urban planner, said, “The (Shivsrushti) project is good. We are not opposing it. But at the same time, the BDPs should be protected. Some solutions, such as shifting the project to other location, can serve both the purposes and should be done.” Ranjit Gadgil of Parisar organization said, “Green spaces are a must for the health of the city and citizens. If constructions in the BDPs are allowed, it will create concrete jungles there. It is harmful for the future.” Mayor Mukta Tilak said the decision regarding the BDP will be taken soon. “A meeting regarding the BDP’s future is being planned at the state-level. It will clear the air about the pending BDP project,” she said.