Let us love’ and ‘Love is not a crime’ were some of the slogans taking over Kolkata’s streets in the wake of the Monday night incident, in which a couple was beaten up by fellow passengers for hugging each other inside a Metro train. The incident has since gone viral on social media. 
And city youngsters are reacting passionately to the incident and standing by the couple. Some of them created Facebook events to gather in front of Metro stations to   against this regressive behaviour of the mob.
 
  
  
 
 For starters, a group of around 200 people gathered in front of Dum Dum Metro station on Tuesday to protest against the shocking incident of moral policing. “I take the Metro almost every day. And it’s not at all safe for girls. I wonder what’s wrong with a guy hugging a girl? What about the molesters? No one protests against them. I think freedom of expression is just a phrase now,” said Abhishek Kar, one of the organisers of the event. They also lodged an FIR demanding a proper investigation into the incident. “Nowadays, everyone is trying to imitate what they are seeing elsewhere in the country. My city was never like this. It’s really hard to believe that Kolkata is going that way,” added Rimjhim Sinha, one of the protestors.
 
  
  
 
 Another Facebook event created by Rahul Chakraborty with the hashtag,  , saw a gathering of about 100 people at Tollygunge Metro station on Wednesday. With music, posters and slogans, the protesters gathered to spread love. “We took the Metro from Tollygunge to Dum Dum and performed outside the Metro stations. We received overwhelming response from fellow Metro riders,” Rahul added. “Moral policing has increased so much that it doesn’t feel like Kolkata anymore. People who are older than us think they are always right, which is absurd!” added Kheya Chattopadhyay, who was present at the event. Actor Aditya Sengupta, who was also present, added, “Clearly, our previous generation is not progressive enough. We are adults, let us love. Progression is missing from the city.”
 
 
 
 
 ‘I may hug my boyfriend in a crowded Metro if I cannot hold on to anything for support. Now, which law says that I can’t do that? On the other hand, those people took the law in their own hands’
 — Nandini Dasgupta, student, Future Institute of Technology
 
 
 ‘The incident was heinous in every way. Not everyone thinks in a similar way. One may consider hugging in public something unacceptable. But who gave the people the 
 audacity to beat up the couple?’
 — Aparupa Majumdar, student, Bhawanipur College
 
 
 — Shrutanwita Chakraborty
 
