God help you if you are poor, afflicted with a serious illness, and living in our part of the world. Or if you are in Chandigarh, there is hope in a group of college students in blue T-shirts.

 In 2006, when Orkut was more popular than Facebook, a   in Sector 10, Harpriya Kaur, took up a cause, not to get likes on her social-media page but to step out and help people with all her heart. She spoke to her teachers, Ravinder Chaudhary and  , and the-then principal,  , and NavSankalp took shape on November 2 that year.
 
 On January 24, 2007, NavSankalp held a fundraiser in the college, where in-house band Bhumii opened the show with a hit song of those times, ‘Aadat’, by Jal. The college had just turned coeducational and all performances were by its students. "We raised Rs 60,000 and donated Rs 40,000 to  , who was just four-and-a-halfyears-old at that time, and had an atrial septal defect (hole in his heart)," says Harpriya.About 12 years on, the NGO has spread to all colleges of Tricity and grown into a university affair.
 
 
 
 On a cold and rainy January afternoon, nearly 50 members of NavSankalp stayed back after college to interact with The Times of India. Seated in a lecture hall of the DAV-10 science block, the blue gang greeted the TOI team with warm smiles and open hearts, before talking about how helping others has helped them grow as individuals.
 
 Amardeep, who joined NavSankalp two years ago, is first to get up and explain his association with the NGO’s PGI branch. “My job is to arrange money and sponsorships for the patients who are from poor families, and to be on the lookout for them,” he says. “Even the smallest contribution to saving a life brings you a happiness unexplained.”
 
 By the time   finishes, Sakshi Thakur, a final-year student of BCom, raises her hand to speak. This correspondent feels like a teacher for a second. She talks about NavSankalp’s other unit, Rakht Sanchar. “Its members collect blood for the patients in need,” she says.
 
 The oldest student in the NavSankalp family is Hemlata, who is pursuing a post-graduate degree in computer applications. “We enroll students at the start of every academic year,” she says.
 
