NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday decided to offer Delhi’s   with an   of up to   fully paid pilgrimage to several places. Under Mukhyamantri Tirth Yatra Yojana, around 77,000 Delhiites will be taken on such trips every year from all 70 assembly constituencies.

 The beneficiaries can choose one from a list of five trips — Mathura-Vrindavan-Agra-Fatehpur Sikri, Haridwar-Rishikesh-Neelkanth, Ajmer-Pushkar, Amritsar-Wagah Border-Anandpur Sahib and Vaishno Devi-Jammu.
 
 Any Delhiite above 60 years will be eligible for the scheme but s/he should not be a working or retired employee of central, state, local government or any autonomous body. 
 
 “Those selected will be allowed to be accompanied by an attendant above 18 years whose expenditure will also be borne by the government,” said an official. Each applicant will have to give a self-certificate that they have not availed the scheme in the past. Each of them will also be covered by an insurance of Rs 2 lakh. 
 
 Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the government would bear all expenses related to travel, lodging and food. Each tour will be of three days and two nights and 1,100 senior citizens will be selected from each constituency every year. On an average, the scheme is likely to incur a cost of Rs 7,000 per pilgrim.
 
 The tours will be organised through Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation and funded by Tirth Yatra Vikas Samiti from its existing funds. The pilgrims will travel on airconditioned buses.
 
 The application forms, which will be available online on a dedicated website, can be submitted through the office of the MLA concerned, the office of Tirth Yatra Vikas Samiti or the office of the divisional commissioner. They will be selected through draw of lots and the respective MLA will have to certify the residents as belonging to Delhi. 
 
 The proposal will be sent to the LG for approval. The first pilgrimage trip will be organised by the end of January or early February if the LG okays the proposal.
 
 
