CHANDIGARH: Soon after his acquittal in the 1988 road rage case, Punjab local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu messaged   president Rahul Gandhi, “I am now at the disposal of the party 24x7.  .”

 After a brief meeting with Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh here, he left to meet Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 Amid political leaders making a beeline to meet him at his official residence in Sector 2, a beaming Sidhu said, “I received messages from Congress president Rahul Gandhi and chief minister Amarinder Singh. Besides, Priyanka Gandhi too conveyed her wishes. I was overwhelmed. I replied to Rahul, saying that I am now at the disposal of the party 24x7.”
 
 Minutes after the judgment around 11.10am, Sidhu received a text message from Rahul, which was followed by calls from Amarinder and Priyanka. Sidhu went to meet his lawyer R S Cheema before leaving for Delhi. He said he would meet Rahul and Priyanka and thank them for their support. “I will tell him that my life is now devoted to Punjab, so that the state could regain its lost glory,” he said, adding that he would now work for the welfare of Punjab with renewed vigour.
 
 Asked about his detractors within Congress, besides the opposition, Sidhu said, “I will not point fingers. In politics, there is always the difficulty of being good. When you are good, mediocre people gang up and try to put you down. But you have to focus on your own work. I have faced similar opposition in the past as well.”
 
 “It’s a victory for people who wished me well. The Almighty has listened to them. Prayer has great strength and I bow down to those people,” he said.
 
 On Punjab Congress government’s stand in the apex court in the case of culpable homicide against him, Sidhu said after the SC verdict, all these things did not matter.
 
 Reacting to AAP’s charge that his own party tried to do him in, Sidhu said he respected AAP leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, but he should focus on his own party.
 
 Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar met Sidhu and later accompanied him to meet Amarinder. Earlier, Congress leaders including cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Parminder Singh Pinki and Gukirat Singh Kotli met Sidhu. 
 
 
 
 In an informal chat with mediapersons, Sidhu said he was not nervous ahead of the verdict in the road rage case. “I had a sound sleep, got up and meditated. I played with my dogs for almost an hour,” he said. Denying any no hard feelings, he said he had forgiven everyone who criticised him. To a question whether he regretted the episode, Sidhu replied, “A life was lost, and everybody will regret it. But the court says it was an accident. I had submitted to the majesty of the law and whatever the court says I abide by it.”
 
 
