MUMBAI:   on Tuesday said   ( ) must give wide publicity to public notices mandated under law for seeking suggestions and objections before cutting trees. The court questioned placing such notices in publications with a narrower reach and questioned whether on one road or project there was a practice to present fragmented proposals to bring down the number of tress to 25 or less to avoid the tree committee.

 Since last year, the civic chief had been empowered to approve   proposals when the count is 25 or less, else the rules require a Tree Authority to grant permission after seeking objections and suggestions.
 
 A bench of Justices Abhay Oka and P N Deshmukh told senior counsel Joaquim Reis, appearing for BMC, to produce by Wednesday a list of publications it publishes such public notices in and the leading dailies it can in English, Hindi and Marathi, to reach a wider audience. “Is it not your responsibility to ensure the advertisements appear in leading newspapers, so that larger number of people know what you are doing,” the bench told BMC, asking for a list of leading publications, before going ahead with proposals.
 
 The bench was hearing a PIL filed by activist Zoru Bhathena, who raised questions about a trend to bypass legal requirements and get tree-cutting approved even in large projects. His advocate Sonal pointed to a list of proposals last month to show they did not have a wide readership. She said there were 49 proposals last month to cut 800 trees; 43 proposals sought to cut almost 400 trees in batches of less than 25 each. One slum rehabilitation project had two proposals for cutting 29 trees, split into 20 and 9 trees, she said. There were seven other proposals, also for 400 trees.
 
 The bench said such acts could not be tolerated and the authorities must ensure rules and procedures involved in granting permission must be followed properly.
 
 Bhathena challenged the validity of a 2017 amendment to Maharashra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, which conferred special powers on the civic chief to decide proposals seeking permission to remove, fell or transplant up to 25 trees. He pointed to a large number of such proposals along Mumbai roads even in projects such as the Mumbai   and slum rehabilitation.
 
 The court wants BMC to inform what procedure the municipal commissioner follows and on Bathena’s suggestion that expert help must be sought by the civic chief. “No doubt, power has been conferred on the commissioner, but if he grants permission without such advice, the trees will be gone forever,” said the bench.
 
 The court was informed that last year BMC expedited hacking of trees along S V Road, in Andheri (W) “in the garb of transplantation”. The rate at which sanction for removal of roadside trees was sought, was also alarming. From January 1, till date, BMC Tree Authority has called for hearings for 16 tree-removal proposals affecting 162 roadside trees, including 35 in Chembur, 18 in Vile Parle (E) — one of the few green reserves of western suburbs — said Bathena’s affidavit.
 
 The   will hear the matter on Wednesday when Reis said he would place information on the procedure and publications.
 
 
