NEW DELHI: The long wait is about to end. In less than two months, south Delhi areas like Greater Kailash II, Chittaranjan Park, Alaknanda and Pamposh Enclave will get direct   connectivity for the first time. The Greater Kailash metro   on Outer Ring Road — which is part of the 38.22-km long Botanical Garden-to-Janakpuri West Magenta Line — is being given the finishing touches. While the first 12.64-km long section of this line between Botanical Garden and Kalkaji Mandir was opened in December last year, the next 25.58-km long section between Kalkaji Mandir and Janakpuri West is likely to be opened by March-end or early April.

 At present, the Nehru Place and Govindpuri metro stations on the Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Escorts Mujesar) are the only ones close to this part of south Delhi. With the opening of the   station, not only will metro come to the doorsteps of the residents but also give them direct connectivity with Noida on one side and west Delhi on the other. And with the upcoming Hauz Khas interchange station on the Magenta Line just two stations away, they will be able to easily switch to the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre), shortening the journey towards Gurugram and central and north Delhi.
 
  
 The underground station is located on the northern side of Outer Ring Road and will be connected to the southern side, where most of the residential areas are located, through a 68-metre long subway. The two entry and exit points to this subway, however, are likely to throw up new traffic challenges.
 
 The road near DT Cinemas (earlier Savitri Cinema), which leads to Greater Kailash I, Chittaranjan Park, Alaknanda and many other colonies, besides many schools, is already a traffic bottleneck. With the opening of the entry and exit points of the station here, it is likely that it will get further choked by e-rickshaws, autorickshaws and cycle rickshaws that will appear for providing last-mile connectivity. This will prove to be a big challenge for the traffic police.
 
 “The slip road near the cinema hall was five-metre wide when we started work and has been widened to 6.8 metres,” said a   ( ) official. “However, there was a requirement of bays for rickshaws at this point to segregate non-motorised vehicles from other traffic which couldn’t be constructed since there is no land. We had planned a drop zone for cycle rickshaws near this entry point but couldn’t acquire land.” They have, however, provided two drop-off areas, each of 40 square metres, on Outer Ring Road where the subway emerges.
 
 Multi-modal integration, however, is not an issue on the other side where the underground station is located. “A long slip road has been created for autorickshaws along the perimeter of the station, which will function as a drop off zone. We have also created bus bays near the station, where buses can enter from the main road, pick and drop passengers and move out to the main road,” he said.
 
 The surface of the underground station has been designed as a plaza with ample greenery and sitting area for commuters.
 
 Creating the subway from the station was a big challenge for DMRC as many utilities had to be shifted. “There were high-tension power lines, gas lines, telephone lines and stormwater drains, which had to be moved to create the subway through ‘box pushing’ technique as construction couldn’t be done on the busy road,” said the official.
 
 DMRC has focused on giving the station a unique identity through artwork based on the theme of fashion.
 
 
