GUWAHATI: The   ( ) on Saturday sent exam centre observers and superintendents under its Guwahati zone to check   footages of the places where the mathematics paper of Class X and economics paper of Class XII board exams were stocked for safe custody. 

 While sources in the CBSE said the board hasn't yet received any proof of question   from the northeast, officials engaged in exam duty by the board have been sent to review the CCTV footages to ascertain safe handover of question papers to exam centre officials as the board is leaving no stone unturned to unearth the source of paper leak.
 
 A centre observer, on condition of anonymity, said CCTV records of question paper handover to exam centre officials were reviewed in various parts of the northeast simultaneously on Saturday. Centre observers and superintendents visited the places where the papers were stocked, he added. 
 
 "First of all, it has been reviewed whether question papers were safe in sealed packs when they were handed over to respective exam centre officials. Secondly, centre observers and superintendents have assessed under what conditions the question papers of the upcoming exams are being kept," said the observer.
 
 While the move of the CBSE in the northeast is aimed at exploring a new angle to question paper leak from the region, sources in the board said there is no evidence of any CBSE question paper leak from the northeast till date. "There is hardly any possibility of any question paper getting leaked from the northeast. There are no such reports with the regional office of the CBSE. But the board is extra cautious to thwart any nefarious plans of unscrupulous elements as some papers are still left," said a CBSE source.
 
 This year, the risk of conducting re-examination was more as the board's question papers were the same all over the country unlike previous years. "All centre observers have been put on alert so that fresh controversies don't disrupt the remaining exams," the source added. 
 
 
