JALNA/BEED: Two years ago, 31-year old   Golde lay down in the heart of his shattered grape farm and swallowed a bottle of pesticide. A hailstorm had destroyed his harvest worth Rs4 lakh, and he simply could not face his creditors.

 “He was unconscious. I dragged him out on time and took him to the hospital. We ran up a bill of almost Rs2 lakh,” said his brother Babasaheb   from Jalna’s Revgaon village. The family finally paid off all their debts last year. But hailstorms struck again ten days ago.
 
 Now Babasaheb sticks close to Sunil, afraid that a moment alone might propel him once again to take that fatal step.
 
  
  
 
 This time, the family had struck a deal with a trader to sell their grape crop for Rs10 lakh. “In ten minutes, massive hailstones the size of lemons came hurling down. Most of our grapes fell off the vines,” said the disheartened Sunil. Only 10% of the crop is now left.
 
 Unseasonal rains and hailstorms have claimed around three lakh hectares of crops in north Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha over the last ten days. The state is conducting panchnamas so it can compensate those affected, many of whom are horticulturists.
 
 But compensation, according to the National Disaster Relief Fund ( ) norms, will fetch grape farmers like the   only Rs18,000 for their one-hectare field. The national weather-based crop insurance scheme would have entitled them to a payout of Rs93,000 for hailstorm damage, but they were not entitled to apply for it. The scheme is part of the PM’s crop insurance scheme.
 
 For eligibility under the crop insurance scheme, a crop has to be notified in a revenue circle. In the case of fruit crops, a minimum of 20 hectares is required to be cultivated in the revenue circle for the crop to be notified. In and around Revgaon village, the grape crops of small farmers like the Golde family do not add up to 20 hectares.
 
 “We spent Rs 2 lakh on the crop. I tried so hard to get crop insurance but had no luc k,” said Sunil. Even the compensation they were awarded two years ago under NDRF has not come through, they said.
 
 In Beed’s Majalgaon taluka, papaya farmer   has also lost out on crop insurance for another reason: papayas are not covered under the scheme in Maharashtra. “We looked after these papaya trees for the last eight months. The crop had already been sold for Rs2 lakh, we were just waiting to pick the fruit when the hailstorm struck,” said Bhapmare. They had tried hard over the last year to register for the crop insurance scheme but were turned away.
 
 Ironically, just a few months ago, the Bhapmares had thought themselves lucky. They had escaped the cotton farming crisis caused by the worst-ever infestation of pink bollworm, which has affected 80% of the cotton crop in the state. Now, both   and his wife will work as farm labourers. “At least we can hope to earn Rs 400 each on the days we find work,” he said.
 
