Mumbai: Over 100 companies from 10 sectors headquartered in 24 countries and regions joined the inaugural 2018   Gender Equality Index ( ). Among the total 19 companies listed in APAC this year, there’s one Indian company — Dr Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL). This is the first year that DRL is included in the index, according to a press release. It is also the only healthcare company in APAC that made it to the list.

 The reference index measures gender equality across internal company statistics, employee policies, external community support & engagement, and gender-conscious product offerings. The 2018 GEI has also expanded globally so that the 24 countries and regions include firms headquartered in Belgium, Chile, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Singapore and Taiwan for the first time. The companies range from a variety of sectors, including communications, consumer staples, energy, financials, materials and technology.
 
 “We commend the 104 companies included in the 2018 GEI for their efforts to create work environments that support gender equality across a diverse range of industries,” said Peter T Grauer, chairman of Bloomberg and founding chairman of the US 30% Club (the members of which aim to have women accounting for a third of their boards). “Their leadership sets an important example that will help all organisations innovate and navigate the growing demand for diverse and inclusive workplaces.”
 
 The 2018 GEI members have a 26.2% representation on boards and women in GEI member firms hold 26% of senior leadership positions, 19% of executive officer roles, and earned 46% of promotions in 2016.
 
 The percentage of executive level positions held by women in GEI member firms increased 33.5% from fiscal year 2014 to 2016. While 67% of members evaluate all advertising and marketing content for gender biases prior to publication, 65% are signatories to or members of organisations advocating gender equality.
 
 Kiersten Barnet, deputy chief of staff to the chairman at Bloomberg, said, “As investors continue to seek more information on companies’ approaches to environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors, the 2018   allows investors to compare companies’ commitments to gender equality across industries. More data and greater transparency in this space will allow investors to make better-informed decisions and help companies better understand their own progress towards gender equality.”
 
 
