GUWAHATI: Union minister for civil aviation P   and chief minister   laid the foundation stone for the new international-standard integrated terminal building of the   here on Sunday. To be completed by 2020 at a cost of Rs 1,232 crores, the ambitious project is being seen as a major boost to the aviation sector in the northeastern region. 

 A bhumi puja ceremony on Sunday marked the beginning of the construction work of the new terminal at the most happening airport of the northeast.
 
 Expressing the Centre's commitment to connect Guwahati with major global destinations, Union minister Raju stated that the civil aviation sector has recorded phenomenal growth both internationally and domestically in the last three years under the NDA government.
 
 "From being not even in the reckoning, we now have the fastest growing aviation sector in the world and we also register the third highest domestic traffic among all countries. Our aviation team works hard at all levels. Till the time the NDA government came to power, only 73 airports in the country were connected in terms of commercial flights. Within the last three and a half years, 18 airports have already started functioning under the present government," said Raju.
 
 Calling the modernization of the airport here a milestone for future generations, chief minister Sonowal exuded confidence that the efforts to give a major facelift to the airport would help in realizing the potential for growth in the state and forging better economic ties with the southeast Asian countries. He also urged Union minister Raju to transform the airport into an all-weather airport.
 
 "Transportation and connectivity are the two most important means for economic prosperity. The government of Assam accords top priority to improve communication and wants to engage in faster development of road, rail and air linkages as well as internet connectivity," said Sonowal.
 
 "We have 800 million people in and around us in the southeast. This is a great market and through the implementation of the Act East Policy we want to take development forward," the chief minister added.
 
 The new integrated terminal building, spread over 90,000 square metres, will be equipped with world-class passenger facilities and will have the capacity to handle 3,100 passengers during peak hour. The interiors of the building will depict local handicrafts, murals and popular tourist destinations of Assam, giving the passengers a glimpse of the varied culture of the northeast. A small forest, bamboo artefacts and a craft village have been integrated into the overall design of the terminal.
 
 The new terminal building will conform to GRIHA (green rating for integrated habitat assessment) 4-star rating.
 
 
