MANGALURU: The coastal city’s first   became operational at   on Thursday. On Friday, a technical   forced it out of action.

 Sources said that the station had both internet, as well as power connectivity issues, which will be sorted out soon. The Karnataka State Pollution Control Board ( ) is in the process of erecting a huge display board to give citizens a sense of how the air quality is within the measurable radius of the station. This board will come up within a fortnight.
 
 The station, though centrally located, may not be in the best location to give optimum data of air quality in the city. It is located in a green zone beside Kadri Park. The Mumbai-Kochi National Highway is located less than 500 metres from the station, and is flanked by an arterial road on one side. The cost of the station is about Rs 1.40 crore.
 
 The location, KSPCB admits, is not the best one, but will give baseline data of the air quality in the city, according to Rajashekar Puranik, environmental officer, KSPCB, Mangaluru. The KSPCB wanted the station at Hampanakatta near Town Hall, perceived to be one of the areas with the highest density of traffic in the heart of the city, but was shelved since the required amount of land was not available.
 
 A study done by Anti-Pollution Drive (APD) Foundation 'Shudda Gaali' in their #StopSmokyVehicles campaign, assessed the air quality of Mangaluru city, and compared it with the ambient standards in India.
 
 Last year, APD had selected 12 locations in Mangaluru city, and the timings of air quality at each location was decided based on peak hour traffic, and was carried on for a duration of eight hours after this. Of the six parameters measured, PM2.5 (particulate matter less than 2.5 micro metres in diameter) , PM10 (particulate matter 10 mm or less in diameter) and lead have been observed to exceed the permissible limits in a few locations.
 
 The study found the overall air quality was good in most locations in the city, especially with respect to SOx (sulfur oxides) and NOx (nitrogen oxides), which were well within the permissible limits. But PM2.5 and PM10 were found to be high in three of the 12 locations (Bunts Hostel, Mahaveer Circle and Baikampady), and PM2.5 alone in six of the 12 junctions (PVS junction, Bunts Hostel, Bunder, Lalbagh, Mahaveer Circle and Baikampady).
 
 
