NEW DELHI: Reversing a slowdown, revenue collections from the goods & services tax (GST) rebounded in December with a 7.3% growth rate and bringing relief for policymakers ahead of the 2018-19 Budget, which will be unveiled in   on February 1. “The total revenue received under   for December 2017 has been Rs 86,703 crore,” the finance ministry said in a statement.

 The reversal in the slowing trend comes amid the series of steps taken by the government to stabilise the new tax reform measure and plug evasion. December collection is also likely to help reduce some of the uncertainty over revenue receipts in the current financial year.
 
 The declining trend in GST collections started in October, slowing to Rs 83,346 crore from September’s Rs 92,150. It slowed for the second consecutive month in November to Rs 80,808 crore, triggering some concerns about revenue receipts.
 
 The number of taxpayers registered under GST topped 1 crore up to January 24, of which 17.1 lakh are composition dealers, which are required to file returns every quarter. The finance ministry said 56.3 lakh   3B returns have been filed for December.
 
 The government expects GST collections to rise by 20-25% after the introduction of electronic way (e-way) bills, which will track the movement of trucks and help check revenue leakage.
 
 Tax experts said the December numbers showed that the system was stabilising. “Increase in revenue collection is on expected lines and means that gradually GST is stabilising and impact of transition issues is waning. This, coupled with few antievasion measures being taken by government, is likely to result in further increase of revenues in January-to-March quarter,” said  , indirect tax leader at consulting firm PwC.
 
 However, some economists said the extent of increase may not be enough to halt a shortfall in indirect tax revenues.  , principal economist at ratings agency  , said, “It is encouraging that sequentially there is an improvement in collections but the magnitude of improvement may not be big enough to eliminate concerns about a shortfall in indirect tax revenue collections this year.”
 
