 (PMC) officials claimed that the civic body has completed the development plan of   and suggestions and objections have been sought from residents of the area.

 “We are now going to conduct the public hearing on these suggestions and objections. A hearing committee has to be constituted for it. The names of committee members representing the state government have been finalised. We have to now identify and finalize representatives from the civic administration’s side will have to be finalised,” city engineer (PMC) Prashant Waghmare told TOI.
 
 
 He added that a proposal to finalize the names has been tabled before the general body of the civic body for taking the final decision.
 
 A visit to Yevlewadi revealed that the main road was clean and well maintained. But the roads in the internal parts were not maintained. Several buildings have come up or are nearing completion. Huge tracts of land have been purchased by builders. Old house have been demolished and re-constructed. Plotting has been done on the hills maintained by private parties. The area has ancient temples and a health centre for sanitation staffers.
 
 What tops the residents’ demands is water. Businessman   said, “We want regular supply of water. It is supplied for two hours, sometimes at 12am or 1am when most of the people are sleeping. This leads to massive wastage of water. An overhead water tank has been constructed and we want PMC to make it functional. Many people have not paid property taxes after the merger. PMC has issued exorbitant bills without conducting assessment of properties. We want the civic body to make budgetary provisions for internal roads, hospital, dispensary, garden, community hall and an independent tax office, among other facilities. The ‘ghanta-ghadis’ should be introduce to keep the area clean.”
 
 Developer   said, “Development in the area is fast because of rapid urbanisation of Yevlewadi. PMC has laid an 18inch water pipeline, while work for laying an underground drainage line up to a distance of 4km Yevlewadi and   is on.”
 
 Hadapsar MLA   said, “The 40ft-wide Kondhwa-Saswad road passes through Yevlewadi. We have installed street lights, laid drainage line and resolved the water crisis the villagers were facing since 15 years. We have major projects worth Rs 100 crore in the pipeline like constructing a ring road, reserving land for constructing grave yard and widening the   bypass. The projects will be executed after the development plan pending before the state government is approved. Yevlewadi has now got a new look after it was merged into PMC.”
 
