LUDHIANA: Even though there are only a few modern sports parks and   in different wards of the city, none of the political parties are seen talking about a sports park in their election campaign. This remains a major concern for sportspersons and sports lovers in the city, who will step out on Saturday to cast their vote in the Municipal Corporation elections.

 Issues like water supply, sewerage, roads, and streetlights are commonly featured in every candidate’s election campaign, but no one has spoken about the need for modern sports parks in every city ward, which will be the only way to remove the drug tag on the youth of Punjab. There are several wards which do not contain even a single park for the youth, senior citizens, and children, which forces them to make use of roads for their games, exercises, and walks, leading to several mishaps.
 
 Jagbir Singh Grewal, a member of the district hockey association, said: “A person belonging to the sports fraternity would always support the decision of making sports parks in most wards of the city, as this would be the only way to change the direction of today’s youth in Punjab indulging in delinquent habits like consuming drugs.”
 
 Teja Singh Dhaliwal, a member of the basketball association, said: “Sporting activities are being carried out in every age group these days, but lack of sports parks and poor infrastructure puts off many people who would have loved to do some physical exercise. Sports parks are the need of the hour, as Ludhiana city counts among 20 of the world’s most polluted cities. With construction of modern sports parks, the city’s green cover will also improve, and city people will get some relief from the increasing pollution levels.”
 
 Prem Singh, a member of the district athletic association, said: “There are several sports projects which could not be completed by recent governing bodies in the Municipal Corporation, such as an all-weather swimming pool, the Indoor Stadium, and squash court. Whichever political party ensures their completion in future will find sports lovers voting for them on Saturday.”
 
 Ankit Kapoor, a resident of Ward No.76, said: “Our wards do not contain even a single sports park. I will give my vote to only those candidates who give us an assurance of building a sports park in our ward, as due to the non-availability of a sports park, children and youth of our wards have to travel long distances to participate in sports activities, or make use of roads for the purpose.”
 
 Gurpreet Singh Gogi, Congress candidate and district president, stated: “I do not know much about the campaigns of other candidates, but our party will ensure modern sports parks along with open gyms, in which a proper badminton court would be placed, a path constructed, and sitting arrangements made for senior citizens. I know this is one of the major concerns for sports lovers, and the Congress party will re-start all stopped projects for the betterment of the sports community,” said the Congress Committee district president.
 
 
