Ukhrul, a non-descript village in  , holds a rare treasure of the forgotten struggle for India’s Independence waged by Subhash Chandra Bose’s   in World War II. And its proud custodian is the 84-year-old YA Shishak, one of the last veterans of INA, who still welcomes rare visitors to his humble home in the remote village and proudly shows off to them the INA’s legendary Tiger Springing Flag. This is the same flag that was hoisted for the first time in liberated India by Bose’s war-hardened and jubilant Indian soldiers, nearly seven decades ago, before they fought the bloody battles of Kohima and Imphal as they tried to bring freedom to the motherland by breaking into British strongholds in the North East.

 The enthusiastic INA troops, who marched forward singing Vande Mataram and Dilli Chalo, had hoisted the Tiger Springing Flag at Moirang on April, 14, 1944. Shishank remembers every last detail of that day. “I was just 14 when I joined INA to fight for Netaji and India and I vividly remember the enthusiasm in my village on the day the flag was hoisted by the INA Army. It was hoisted by Colonel Shaukat Hayat Malik, commander of INA’s Bahadur Group. Moirang was the first Indian territory captured by the INA, and the Japanese Army. That night, we came under a heavy artillery attack from the British and we were forced to retreat, leaving the flag at the flag post. But, I sneaked in that night and retrieved the flag. Since then, the flag has been with me and I have kept it safely locked in an iron trunk in my home. I open it only when historians or visitors reach my remote village,” recounts the freedom fighter. 
 
 In fact, Shishak has converted his humble home into a museum of World War II. And that’s how INTACH Odisha coordinator and Bhubaneswar-based historian, Anil Dhir, stumbled upon his story. “It was after a week-long journey in the North East, that I found him, thanks to stories told by the locals about a man who is a ‘living museum of World War II and INA’. I had to go meet him then! When I did, what I discovered was mind-blowing. His house is a treasure trove of WW II and he has over hundreds of war memorabilia, including Japanese Samurai swords, helmets, artillery pieces, bullets, shells and photographs. His visitor’s book has scores of entries including testimonials from Japanese, British, Indian and even German visitors,” Dhir tells us.
 
 Shishak’s passport shows that he had travelled to   twice, and he claims, he was honoured for his war efforts by the Japanese government as well. “However, the Government of India still does not recognise me as a freedom fighter. I am not entitled for a pension, despite dedicating my life for freedom and for preserving the flag. The Commissioner at Ukhrul is not even sending my file to Delhi with his recommendation,” he rues, bitterly.
 “Shishak is ready to part with his cherished flag, if the officials recognise him and give him his due,” says Dhir, who is striving to get him some kind of recognition. “The Battle for Imphal and Kohima have been considered as Britain’s greatest battles by contemporary historians. They were one of the gravest wars; it is estimated that the British lost 16,500 lives while the combined casualties of INA and the Japanese was around 53,000 soldiers. The fight for Imphal lasted nearly six months, while the Kohima battle was on for three months,” Dhir adds.
 
