CHANDIGARH: Ten persons were killed and 58 injured in separate accidents in   and Haryana on Wednesday. In two separate road accidents reported from Shimla district, five people were killed and 57 others injured on Wednesday. Four people, including two woman and a child, were among four killed in a car accident at Banuti near Shimla, while a woman was killed and 53 others injured in an HRTC bus accident at   in Rampur subdivision.

 In Banuti incident, the Alto car was carrying around eight passengers, including the driver. When the car reached Banuti, it skidded off the road and fell into a deep gorge. Police team with the help of local people launched rescue operation and took the injured to   and Hospital Shimla.
 
 Those killed in the accident have been identified as car driver Devender (30), Gayatri (35), Poonam (33), Hemant (4). Those injured have been identified as Chunni Lal (65), Sachin (5), Kavya (5) and Narvada (28).
 
 In another incident, HRTC bus on its way to Darkali from Rampur met with an accident at Siyarla near Taklech. At the time of accident 55 people were travelling in it, sources said. Sources said that bus skidded off the road as the retaining wall along the road caved in. So far death of a woman has been confirmed.
 
 In another accident in Hisar, five persons, including four members of a family, died on the spot when a speeding car rammed a Haryana roadways bus on the   road on Wednesday morning. The incident occurred when the ill-fated car was going towards Agroha medical college for the treatment of one of the occupants, who had complained of chest pain.
 
 According to information, when  , a resident of Fatehabad, reported of chest pain, his sons Parveen and Radheshyam, along with his brother Raghubir, rushed him to the hospital in a car owned by Vikas of Fatehabad. The car was at high speed and when it reached the Agroha-Durjanpur overbridge, one of the tyres burst and the car hit a roadways bus coming from the opposite side. Thereafter, the car rolled thrice and hit a bridge wall.
 
 All occupants died on the spot while two bodies got stuck in the car. The bodies were handed over to the families after post-mortem .
 
