 has made inroads into Bollywood with films like Singh Saab The Great, Sanam Re and Great Grand Masti. This Friday’s release Hate Story IV saw her slipping into the role of a strip club dancer, who goes on to become a successful supermodel. In a candid chat with BT, the actress talks about how she doesn’t want to limit herself as an actress when it comes to choosing varied roles, how she has turned down roles opposite big stars in the past because she had little to do in those films and why she has no time for love. Excerpts... 

 
 
 My character, Tasha is the hero of the film. I play a strip club dancer who becomes a supermodel. As an actor, I want to keep evolving and doing challenging roles. This is the fourth installment. I liked my character in the film and I didn’t see the earlier films in the franchise so that this one wouldn’t get affected. Hate Story IV gave me the opportunity to prove my talent. The film also has a social message about women taking a stance for the crimes committed against them.
 
 
 
 It takes a few films to understand what one is good at and what one needs to work on. I don’t like limiting myself and I am open to doing every kind of role. I was also offered a film from a leading production house when I was preparing for Miss Diva pageant. Even though it was a leading role, I don’t regret my decision of turning it down because at that time, the pageant was my focus. In my first film, Singh Saab The Great (2013), I played a village belle. After that I kept getting similar roles, but I didn’t want to get stereotyped. Hence, I opted for the glamorous role of a socialite in Sanam Re (2016). In Great Grand Masti (2016), I played a ghost and in Hate Story IV, I am playing a completely different character. The tags given to an actor are not permanent. In fact, I have let go of many films opposite big actors because I had nothing to do in them. I didn’t want to be a prop in a film. Also, every actress is not offered a female-centric film. The actresses who are cast in such films have screen presence and the ability to carry the film on their own shoulders. Actors like Priyanka Chopra, Kangana Ranaut, Vidya Balan and Rani Mukerji have that ability. Hate Story IV is the first film that focusses completely on my character. In earlier films, there were many senior actors with whom I shared screen space. But for the first time, I am carrying a film on my own shoulders. I am nervous. Initially, I thought doing a film like this was a little too early in my career, but then I made up my mind to take it on as a challenge.
 
 
 
 In the past, I have been told that I was too pretty to play a certain role. Many directors think that a pretty face cannot act. It’s unfortunate that beauty becomes a deterrent in getting good roles.   is good-looking, but he also embraces the characters that he essays completely.
 
 
 
 Thankfully, I have not faced it. I have heard about it happening to other people and have tried to learn from their experiences. The   scandal was a clear indicator of the situation in   and I cannot say that it doesn’t happen in Bollywood. But I am a strong girl and nobody has ever dared to misbehave with me. When you become a pageant winner, you become a known face. So, winning a pageant helps us in making inroads into the industry. Women should not let anybody take them for a ride. If they face such things, they should talk about it.
 
 
 I want to do a no-holds-barred action movie next. I want to be able to use the skills I have learnt, like mixed martial arts, gymnastics, taekwondo and kick-boxing. In fact, I would love to do a sports film since I am also a national-level basketball champion. My parents have always encouraged me to play sports. I am first an athlete and then an actor. 
 
 
 
 I have no time for love as work takes up all my time. A lot of men show interest in me and they try hard, but I don’t have the time. I can either focus on doing my job to perfection or concentrate on other aspects of life. I am a romantic person, but I would opt for an arranged marriage.
 
  
  
 
