MUMBAI: A fraudster pretending to be a former consul general of   posted a   car for sale on an e-commerce website, but couldn't carry the sale through as an alert prospective buyer sensed something was amiss. 

 When   businessman   got in touch with the person who had posted the ad, the latter introduced himself as Erdal Sabri Ergen, the ex-consul general. Choksi called him as the price of the car mentioned in the ad was Rs15 lakh. A new version of the model,  , is for Rs80 lakh while a second hand one is usually for Rs 40 lakh. "I was on the lookout for a luxury car and I was checking out the website (Quikr). When I saw the ad, I saw the car had been driven 23,000 km. I called up the person and told him I wanted to meet him the same day. He said he was at the   and needed to follow procedure to let me in. He asked for my email id, saying he would explain the procedure on email," Choksi told TOI.
 
  
 Choksi got the email later the same day, in which he was asked to deposit 10% of the car's asking price. "I got suspicious and so told him it was late for me to make the transfer and I would get back to him later. Meanwhile, I called up the Turkish consulate. I asked the receptionist for Ergen, and after keeping me on hold for some time, she asked me why I wanted to speak to him. I told her what the matter was. She told me Ergen left the country quite some time ago," he said.
 
 A regional transport officer said the car registration number Choksi saw on the website was different from the diplomatic licence plates that a consulate's cars have. "In the ad, the car's picture showed MH-12, which is a Pune registration. The other numbers were hidden," said the officer.
 
  TOI's calls and emails to the Turkish consulate went unanswered. The consulate is in an area that is in the jurisdiction of the Cuffe Parade police, which has not yet received a complaint. "I would be eager to register the case, but the consulate officials have not approached us so far. My cyber cell officers are active and will solve such cases fast," said Cuffe Parade police senior inspector Rashmi Jadhav. As for Choksi, he said he did not approach the police as he fears he wouldn't be entertained. "I did not finally get duped," he said. 
 
 
