By- Shreyas Ubgade

 Every Tuesday morning, Bharat Singh Yadav leaves home in Baghsewaniya for a Hanuman shrine in Aambagiya. Once there, he performs puja, chants mantras and returns home after finishing his priestly duties. Some 30 years back, this 61-year-old pujari had an altogether different association with the place. He was Pehelwan Bharat, fighting kushti for hours at a stretch at the akhada, right in front of the small shrine.
 
 The pehelwan-turned-pujari says, “We used to wait for hours for our turn as the akhada would be crowded with pehelwans. Those were the days.” Bharat, who retired as additional SP, has a string of medals in Judo and kushti, both at national and international meets.
 
 “Akhada made me tough. Nowadays, youngsters do not want to work hard. They hit the gym only to flaunt muscles,” says Bharat, with obvious disdain. “Chaurahe pe khade rehte hain, T-shirt aur goggles pehen ke (they lounge on street corners, in T-shirt and sunglasses),” he adds, with a smirk. For him, “powder” (supplements offered at gyms) is the villain of the piece.
 
 Now, especially on cold wintry mornings, not a soul turns up at the akhada, he says, pointing at the desolate compound. Sharing Bharat Singh's anguish is Ramdayal, pehelwan of the 200-year-old Khatlapura Akhada in Jahangirabad. The 80-year-old, who once dominated the kushti scene in Bhopal, puts it bluntly: “Tel, mitti aur lakdi wale hum. Aur kaha mobile, internet wale aaj ke ladke (we are men of oil, sand and wood. Today’s kids are made of mobile and internet?.”
 
 
 
 
 An umbilical cord connects Kushti with akhadas. Modern-day gyms have drawn off youngsters, but the real tussle seems to be between ‘mitti ki kushti’ and Greco-Roman style of wrestling followed the world over. Shakir Noor, who trains young wrestlers at   in Bhoipura has fond memories of “those golden days”. “A lot has changed in three decades. There were about 27 prominent akhadas in Bhopal, now only five or six worth naming,” he says.
 
 Sixty-three-year-old Genda pehelwan of Khatlapura Akhada reminisces the “craze” (yes, he uses that word- for kushti) in Bhopal in the ’80s. “Dangals would be regularly organised and the ground would be packed by those who paid to watch,” he says. “Unlike kushti, which can go on for hours, professional wrestling is a time-bound and points-based sport. If you want to learn the ABCD of wrestling, you have to start from mitti.”
 
 Almost all the kushti old-timers seethe against “powder and gym”. Cricket is the other punching bag. For Noor, though, change is the name of the game. Noor, who won the Vishwamitra Award for excellence in coaching, has trained youngsters from across  . His wife Fatima Bano coaches girls on wrestling mats. “Recently, girls from our akhada participated in World School Wrestling Tournament in Turkey. Scholarships are available for promising youngsters. Some get into railways, CISF, BSF and police.”
 
 
 
 
 When it comes to Bhopal’s wrestling scene,   is the toast of the town. With 10 national medals, Satru Pehelwan beat wrestlers from the US and Portugal to clinch gold for India at the World Police Fire Games held at Los Angeles in August last year. He is also ‘Bhopal Kesari’ of 2017.
 
 The 35-year-old got into police through sports and is now an SI with SAF. His father, also a pehelwan from Balia in UP, served the same battalion. Satru's career, which started on mitti, took off once he switched to mat. “For me, both mitti and mat are important,” says Satru, who also coaches. “A 12x12m mat costs Rs 3-5 lakh. Akhadas can’t afford them,” he adds.
 
 
 
 
 Unlike Satru, many of his contemporaries in Bhopal have not tasted much success. Bablu Yadav of Military Gate Akhada wanted to make a name and fought dangals in almost every town of MP, but has given up on his dream. “I still go to the akhada, but have lost all hope on making a career in kushti,” says the 30-year-old. He now runs a small snack shop adjacent to the akhada, which itself is dimly lit and stuffy.
 
 Some youngsters signed up after the Bollywood flick 'Dangal', says Bablu. “Pehelwans from our akhada who could not make big in wrestling were fortunate enough to get into armed forces, police and powerlifting,” he says, adding: “Others just fell by the wayside.” His friend, Vijay pehelwan, works as a labourer. “Now, wrestling is only about money and prize,” says ustaad of this akhada, Mahesh Khatik, who sells tea and samosas at Jawahar Chowk. To attract youngsters, the akhada is trying to arrange for mats, says Bablu.
 
 Shiv Yadav, president of Rajdhani Kushti Sangh, recalls the days when hockey teams and pehelwans were found in every locality in Bhopal and people used to pitch in with ghee, doodh and badam for wrestlers. Have the pehelwans of Bhopal vanished into thin air?
 
 “A number of akhadas simply shut down. In others, leadership is an issue. Disputes occasionally erupt among khalifas waiting in the wings to become Ustads,“ says Shiv, who has been organising dangals since 1986. The title of ‘Ustad’ is bestowed usually on the senior-most pehelwan and ‘Khalifas’ are his immediate subordinates. “Many pehelwans work as bouncers. Some got into legal trouble,” says shiv.
 
 
 
 
 Though akhadas seem to be losing to the mat, there are grapplers like 28-year-old Abhishek Shravan who swear by ‘mitti vali kushti’. “I don't miss akhada for a single day,” he says.
 
 But will there be any akhada left in Bhopal 20 years from now? Attempts are being made to preserve the kushti and dangal culture of Bhopal. To attract young blood, Bhopal Kesari is organised every year. “More pehelwans from traditional akhadas should try their hand at mats,” suggests Shiv.
 
 Satru Pehelwan talks of formulating a policy linking akhada kushti with modern-day wrestling. “Many pehelwans at akhadas are not even aware of career opportunities that await them if they switch to mat,” he points out. Shiv Yadav wants wrestling in school curriculum. The art that has survived centuries will find a way.
 
 
