BHOPAL: An 18-year-old youth, who had gone to celebrate his birthday and New Year with friends at  , died after their car overturned near a restaurant in   locality on Monday evening. 

 His friends sustained injuries and are undergoing treatment. Eyewitnesses said that the speeding car rolled over at least three or four times after skidding off the road. A case was later registered at Ratibad police station.
 
 Police identified the deceased as   Jatav, a resident of   in  , who was a car mechanic at a workshop in Nehru Nagar. Hemant lost both his parents when he was 9-years-old. He lived at his maternal grandparents' house and worked with his elder brother Ashok at the workshop. Since it was his birthday, he decided to celebrate with friends.
 
 Hemant and Ashok went to Kerwa dam with their friends around 4 pmin a friend's car. Around 6:30 in the evening, they were returning home and the driver lost control of the car while while trying to overtake a vehicle . The car overturned, and the speed was such that the vehicle flipped over three to four times.
 
 The passengers in the car were rushed to   hospital where Hemant died around midnight during treatment. One of the injured is said to be in serious condition. 
 
 Meanwhile in Bagsewania, a 38-year-old man, who was hit by a speeding scooter at service road in front of Barkatullah University rest house in Narayan Nagar died while undergoing treatment at hospital on Monday afternoon. The deceased was identified as  , a resident of 11 number bus stop, who worked at a private firm. Around 2:30 pm, Singh was crossing the road in front of the rest house when a speeding scooter hit him. A youth and a girl who were on the scooter fled soon after. 
 
 Singh was then rushed to a hospital from where he was referred to JP hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Bagsewania police are now looking for the errant driver.
 
 In the third incident reported from Eitkhedi, a 21-year-old bike-borne youth, who was returning home from his sister's house , died after he was hit by an unidentified vehicle near a trisection in Lambakhera. He was not wearing helmet and died on spot. 
 
 
