GREATER NOIDA: Nearly 500 products were displayed by 119 exhibitors at the six-day   which concluded on Wednesday. Over 6.05 lakh people visited the mega event compared to 6.01 lakh in 2016, sources said.

 The expo had 53 original vehicle manufacturers showcasing over 100 products, which included 22 launches, 81 product unveilings and 18 concept showcase.
 
 There were 14 new brands including Kia Motors India, India Kawasaki Motors and Cleveland CycleWerks. There were 25 electric vehicles showcased in the expo. A total of 11 start-ups also marked presence in the country through the show.
 
 The show was jointly organised buy Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India ( ), Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) and Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM).
 
 Vishnu Mathur, director general, SIAM, said the   expo is a milestone as a grand exposition that has built a brand image for itself over the years. “It is the biggest platform for the Indian automobile industry to showcase its journey towards the future of ‘Mobility in India’, with competitive & world class products, technology & futuristic concept,” he said.
 
 Sugato Sen, deputy director general, SIAM said successful completion of the Auto expo is a great achievement for the industry. “We had 6,05,175 footfalls during this edition. The Auto expo has been welcomed by visitors and manufacturers alike. The feedback received from all quarters has been positive. It has been a wonderful experience for all which was one of the key objectives of the motor show,” he said.
 
 Legendary sports and Bollywood personalities like Shah Rukh Khan, John Abraham, Akshay Kumar, Sonakshi Sinha, Taapsee Pannu, Gul Panag, Rahul Khanna, Sachin Tendulkar, Mohammad Azharuddin, Gautam Gambhir, R P Singh and others had launched vehicles at the Auto expo.
 
 The organisers said that the impressive consumer response and influx of visitors coming to the expo is a testament to its success, setting the tone for the next financial year for the auto industry.
 
 The expo was also buzzing on social networking sites like   last week. The show witnessed a tremendous response on social media as there were more than 1.5 lakh tweets on its official hashtag #AutoExpo2018 which further garnered over 4.5 billion impressions on Twitter in a span of six days.
 
 
