NEW DELHI: The   today mocked Prime Minister  's " ", or his fondness for giving hugs to heads of state while on diplomatic visits.

 
 In a video released on the day Israel Prime Minister   arrived in New Delhi, the Congress lampoons Modi's now famous hugs with several world leaders by describing them with droll epithets punctuated with reaction gifs.
 
 Notable amongst these are PM Modi's "Titanic hug" with former French President Francois Hollande, the "Let me love you hug" which engulfed Mexican President Enrique Pena Nieto, and "That's enough hugs" with US President  .
 
 The video also dubs his interactions with female diplomats "awkward", as exhibited by cherry-picked footage showing his missed handshake with German Chancellor Angela Merkel and stilted courtesy to Japan's first lady Akie Abe.
 
  
  
 
 Earlier today, PM Modi broke protocol to receive Israeli counterpart and "close friend" Benjamin Netanyahu on his maiden visit to India. No sooner had Netanyahu alighted from his flight, that Modi enveloped him in one of his trademark bear hugs. Israeli first lady Sara Netanyahu stood to one side watching as both leaders were locked in a prolonged embrace, interspersed with several pats on the back, which eventually concluded with a spirited double handshake. 
 
  
  
 Following this warm welcome, Netanyahu took to Twitter and said: "Thank you to my good friend, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who surprised me with a personal welcome at the airport upon my arrival in India. Together we will bring the relations between our countries to new heights!"
 
 Congress president   had called Modi's relationship with Donald Trump a failed hugplomacy after the US president tweeted that he was working on bettering ties with Pakistan in October last year.
 
  
  
 The failed hugplomacy jibe returned again in November when Pakistan freed JuD chief and 26/11 mastermind Hafiz Saeed from house arrest.
 
 "Narendrabhai, this is not done. Terror mastermind is free. President Trump just delinked Pak military funding from LeT. Hugplomacy fail. More hugs urgently needed," he had tweeted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
