JAIPUR: Busting a racket of printing and distribution of  , Jodhpur police arrested four key accused on Saturday. A printer, scanner and a counterfeit note of Rs 2,000 have been recovered from the accused. Three accused engaged in rolling out this currency in the market have already been arrested by the police.

 SHO (Sardarpura) Bhupendra Singh said that one Dharmaram, who has a sweet shop in Dangiawas of Jodhpur, had complained that one unknown person had tried to give him a counterfeit note of Rs 2,000 at his shop on January 17.
 
 “On his complaint, the police initiated an investigation and arrested one Surendra Suthar from Jodhpur city along with a vehicle,” Singh said.
 
 Based on his interrogation, the police arrested another accused Pukhram, from whom Suthar said to have obtained this currency.
 
 “Followed by the arrest of Pukhram, we apprehended two more persons one after another, identified as Dinesh and Badal,” said Singh.
 
 Of these two, Dinesh used to print the counterfeit currency in the denomination of Rs 2,000 only at his home in Bhopalgarh and would provide this currency to one Badal, who has his shop in Shikargarh in Jodhpur, from where these notes would make their way to the market through the co-accused.
 
 “After printing the notes, Dinesh would take these notes to the shop of Badal and the notes had been distributed from this shop to others to pass them off in the market,” said Singh adding that a scanner, a printer and note of Rs. 2000 has been seized from Dinesh's possession. 
 
 Before this, police have arrested two person identified as Sampat and Naresh, who also had obtained these notes from Surendra in order to pass them off in the market. 
 
 According to Singh, the preliminary interrogation of the accused has revealed that Dinesh had been printing the counterfeit notes since November last year and he preferred to print only Rs 2,000 notes.
 
 “We are yet to interrogate them. We are expected to get some more names involved in the distribution of this racket and how much currency, they have passed off in the market,” Singh said.
 
 
