AJMER: The court on Friday sent   alias   to jail, for sexually molestating a minor girl in Ajmer. Police started investigating the baba's criminal background and claimed that chargesheet will be filed soon. 

 Meanwhile, there was anger among the villagers of Kalyanipura and they alleged that this Baba was involved in tantrik activities. Many other Babas usually came to meet him in the temple and he was serving in the temple for the last 35 years. Villagers today gathered and announced that no more babas will be allowed in the Hanuman Temple of Kalichat and the committee will appoint a person who will keep the place running.
 
 Vijay Meghwal of Kalyanipura said, "It is a shameful act and a threat to society." He added that on Friday villagers gathered and went to the temple to find any other accomplice of the priest. A police team also reached the place and searched the room adjoining the temple to find out more about the accused.
 
 Police seized his mobile and found that the accused is a native of Hinota Khavariya village of Jabalpur and there were many Jabalpur numbers in his mobile. Additional SP Monika Sen took the report of investigation from Alwargate police and directed to add this crime into case office scheme in which the heinous crimes get an officer who looks after the arrangements of witnesses and evidences to complete the trial early.
 
 Meanwhile, Mamta Gujjar of Kalyanipura said that they had suspected the priest many times but he was usually not involved in the village and simply walked away without talking to anyone.
 
 The Kalichat temple is situated on the hills and Kalyanipura is on the foothills. "People rarely go to there as it is on top of the hills. On holidays many people trek to reach the temple," said Santosh Rawat of Kalyanipura. The route to the temple is very hard and therefore during monsoon youths usually go trekking up the hill for picnics.
 
 During the time of Holi the village men move to Kalichat temple as women play holi down in the village. Youths keep an eye on roads leading to the village to lok out for strangers. Kalyanipura is a village of farmers who mostly depend on cattle farming.
 
 "The temple is not a place where devotees go regularly" said Mahesh Rawat of the village.
 
 Sources said that police is also looking for evidences of tantric activities by the accused and have filmed every corner of the temple and seized every belonging of the accused. Police also found that 10 years ago Shivanand's name also came up in the murder case of a Kalyanipura man but police could not find any sufficient evidences against him.
 
 
