

 I would say kick-staring the project was the most difficult phase for me. After Vanakkam Chennai, I worked on different drafts and eventually met Vijay Antony with this script. 
 
 
 He is someone who thinks out of the box and looks for different scripts and roles. There are not many producers and actors who support diverse stories and different approaches in filmmaking. But when Vijay Antony heard the story, he loved it and immediately agreed to act and produce it as well. That’s how Kaali began. I did faced hiccups till it started, but after that, it has been a smooth sailing. There were quite a few complicated sequences in my movie, and they were a challenge to shoot. But when I saw the outcome, I was very happy. 
 
 
 Both of us share a good working relation. In fact, we’ve become friends now! It was very easy to communicate with him and try different methods in filmmaking. In fact, Kaali is a collaboration between Vijay Antony and me. Starting from the pre-production stage, he has given me a lot of inputs to better the movie. Since this is a village subject, I don’t have much exposure to such living and his inputs have immensely helped me to shape up the project. The movie has the right amount of action. But I am not an action person at all. So, that, too, was a challenge to shoot.
 
 
 I would say, first and foremost, I like him as a producer. He has been very supportive and doesn’t allow any compromise on the quality and production values. He has put in his best efforts, in both the music and acting department, in equal measures. While the songs have come out very well, he has tried to perfect the role by trying out various techniques.
 
 
 There is an interesting story behind it. Usually, the director goes to the actor’s place for story narration. But, Vijay came to my residence for the narration. My original script had a character called Kaali and half way through the narration, he said that we should title the movie Kaali. I was so happy that he showed so much interest and even suggested the title that I immediately agreed. At that point, I didn’t worry about how we were going to go about the title registration process. I’ve seen his films and I know he has a keen sense when it comes to choosing titles. Because of that, we have brought in a lot of factors in the script. Now, the movie’s hero is called Kaali and there’s a twist even in that, which I can’t reveal!
 
 
 Classifying this movie under a particular genre is difficult. Actually, it has a bit of everything — there’s drama, there’s romance, there’s action and there’s also an element of suspense in it. We can maybe call it an action family drama. It’s a village-based offbeat theme, but has been treated commercially. 
 
 
 I think only the producer can answer this question. Vijay is someone who is very particular about his work. The whole shooting spot was under tight security and he safeguards his footage. Releasing the song with a video was completely his idea. But I’m not sure what idea he has for tackling the piracy issues.
 
 
 I’m often asked this question, but I don’t think gender matters in this profession. I agree that the industry is a male-dominated one and people think that women have a tough time because of that. But at the end of the day, what matters is the story you want to narrate, your hero and the producer who’s backing you. I don’t think Vijay doubted my potential as a director at any point of time just because I was a woman. I think only those who do not belong to the industry have such notion. We were just two women on the set (my assistant and I) and there were 100 men around us, but it never changed or affected the style of our work. We work towards our aim and try finishing what we want to achieve on the day.
 
 
 He has been very supportive; he used to take care of our kids while I was away shooting. And without his support, I would not have been able to manage both the film and my family.
 
 
