KOLKATA: The   incident, in which a young marketing executive was allegedly molested, abused, dragged out of a car and forced to touch a rickshaw-puller’s feet following a fight over fare near  , has brought to the fore the residents’ unanimous exasperation against the constant bullying of rickshaw-pullers in the township.

 
  
  
 
 A completely unregularized sector, rickshaws in Salt Lake—pedalled ones or batteryoperated—don’t have a fixed fare chart. Even Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation does not have the count of rickshaws operating in the township yet.
 
 Those living in Salt Lake pointed out that their complete dependence on rickshaws for short-distance travel within blocks allowed the pullers to hold them to ransom. They said there was no dearth of public transport on main roads, but for those who did not have vehicles of their own, rickshaws were the only option while travelling from one block to another through the neighbourhood lanes. To make matters worse, most stands did not display any rate chart and the rickshawpullers demanded whatever fare they felt like. “Rickshaw-pullers have turned out to be a big nuisance. Not only do they misbehave but also don’t have a fixed rate in place. Most stands don’t even have a fare chart on display. They demand whatever fare they want and a commuter can’t even dare to say anything against it. What happened on Tuesday is indeed a matter of concern,” said Bidhannagar Welfare Association secretary Kumar Shankar Sadhu, a resident of GD Block.
 
 The charges apparently vary at different times of the day. For example, the regular fare from Manjusha stand to Tank 13 is Rs 12, but sometimes, rickshaw-pullers charge Rs 15 for the same route, depending on their whim. After 10pm, the fares go up by Rs 5 to Rs 20, depending on the distance.
 
 Run-ins with rickshawallahs seemed a regular ordeal in Salt Lake. “A few months ago, I was returning home at   from   around 8.30pm. The fare is usually Rs 25. On the way, I asked him to stop at an ATM for a few minutes. When we reached home, he charged Rs 30. When I asked the reason for suddenly charging more, he said he had to wait at the ATM for more than five minutes. When I said he should have told me earlier that I would have to pay more for the halt, the rickshawwallah started shouting at me in foul language, and even threatened to harm me next time he saw me at the stand,” said  , a resident of Amartya Abasan. “The rickshaw-puller left only when the security guard of our complex came out.”
 
 Even rickshaw-pullers conceded there was no fixed rate and that they charged fares as told by their union. “We don’t have a regularized fare. The hike is usually Rs 2- Rs 5 on an average, depending on the distance,” said a rickshaw operator at Karunamoyee.
 
 The civic authorities will soon call upon the rickshawpullers’ union to regularise the fares and come up with a rate chart that will be put up at all designated rickshaw stands. They will also ensure that the rickshaw-pullers have a proper licence to ply in the township.
 
 
