KOLKATA: So far confined to specialised studies, the lifestyle of the 19th century woman, the ‘andarmahal’ culture that usually centred around the kitchen and household chores and how their lives have evolved over time will now be part of the Bengali post-graduation syllabus at  .

 The university, which is finalizing the course and the texts for the module, looks to portray the lives, tales and struggles of ordinary women from their point of view, and not teach from the mainstream texts, most of them written by men of that time and later. Lauding the university’s endeavour to spread the message that it is important to know the other half to complete the circle, linguist   said, “We are aware of women achievers of the past. Very few know about the housewives of earlier days, how they spent their lives. Those specializing the subject are usually the only ones studying them. It’s praiseworthy the university is introducing the subject in its Bengali post-graduation course, bringing forth the veiled lives of the ordinary woman to many more.”
 
  
 Sanskrit University assistant professor of   said, “We got in touch with some of the traditional, affluent families, asking them to share with us their grandmothers’ and greatgrandmothers’ stories. We have asked our former students to bring in writings of their mothers and grandmothers. We have collected a few diary entries, letters and poems by women of that period. These will highlight the struggles and joys of the ordinary woman.” She added they had collected rannar khata or recipe books and goynar fordo or jewellery lists of old, items intrinsic to their lives. An initiative has been taken to interview the elderly members of these households; their recollection of the times, lifestyle and culture will be documented as living history.
 
 University VC   said, “Besides the biographies available, we plan to incorporate unpublished biographies and diary writings in our course. We will screen films, such as ‘Charulata’, ‘Ghare-Baire’, ‘Strir Potro’.” A proposed museum at the university will also showcase collectible: recipe books, utensils, diary writings, letters, drawings , art by the women of the 19th century.
 
 Swapan Deb of the Sovabazar Rajbari said, “Such work is necessary as we are forgetting our heritage.”
 
 
 
