By: Anindita.Acharya

 Jas K Shan’s profession (she runs a fitness and dance facilitation centre in Sector 44) requires her to travel abroad frequently but her life’s true “transformative journey” was her first solo trip to Thailand in 2012. “It made me realise my inner strength and how I can find friends in strangers,” she said.
 
 Since then, Jas has taken a new road and found solace in travel. Come June 15, this freespirited wanderer is heading to Switzerland, Poland, and Germany. She will also catch up with a friend whom she met in Hua Hin, Thailand. “I make a conscious decision not to look at my mobile phone while  . In fact, I took a 12-hour train journey from Budapest to Zurich only to observe the landscape. Life has so much to offer,” said Jas, 30, who has travelled to Egypt, Dubai, Russia, Budapest, and Hungary.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Either solo or in groups, as university students or young working professionals, as alumni or bachelorettes, many Chandigarh   are travelling. Chander Lekha Lath completed a 10-day trip across South East Asia at 65. From cruising along the Halong Bay to enjoying an organic meal in Bali, Lath did it all in the company of her sister.
 
 
 
 A Cleartrip survey says 40% of the total searches on the online travel platform were made by women from leading non-tier-1 cities such as Chandigarh, Ahmedabad, Indore, Lucknow, Jaipur, and Patna. Neharika Bhutani of Pack Your Bags travel agency in Sector 40-B, Chandigarh, said: “The social media has made travel less daunting and women also take inspiration from other women exploring the world. “I have lost count of my woman traveller clients from north India. Five years ago, they were only a few. Technology has allowed families to relax in the knowledge that they are connected to their loved ones at all times,” said Neharika, a solo traveller herself.
 
 Balu Ramachandran, head of air and distribution wings of Cleartrip, said: As women are getting financial independence and fatter pays, the concept of solo travel is also gaining traction in the country. “The proliferation of smart devices and greater exposure to the social media is allowing more women to set-off on their own without any anxiety,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Mompreneur Sushma Paul of Holiday Cellar, Panchkula, has seen a tectonic shift in the travelling pattern in two-to-three years, to the point where   mothers are travelling with kids and girl gangs are taking short breaks from work and education. “A recent group we sent on a day trip comprised housewives, school and college girls, and a grandmother with a twoyear-old. Modern women juggle home and high-stress jobs. All they want is freedom and breathing space.”
 
 Neharika said: “In Punjab, women like group travel more than solo trips. Many groups of Punjabi women come to us looking for a pilgrimage holiday.”
 
 
 
 Himachal Pradesh remains women’s most popular weekend getaway, and Manali, Ladakh, Goa, and Rajasthan favourite destinations. Expedia’s India marketing head Manmeet Alhuwalia said: “Dubai, Canada, the UK, the US, Australia, and New Zealand are where our women clients from Chandigarh like to fly, maybe because they have friends and family there or maybe because adventure sport and cultural tourism have caught their fancy.”
 
 Many women of this region enjoy rafting in Rishikesh and paragliding in Himachal. “I crossed one item off my bucket list after doing bungee jumping in Singapore,” said Kiran Rampal of Sector 19. Neharika says: “Our ladies are also going out to pizza-making workshops in Naples and Thai cooking class in Phuket. They make memories.”
 
