CHANDIGARH: A day after the Punjab and Haryana high court reprimanded special investigation team (SIT) of Chandigarh police for “questionable conduct” in probing the case related to leakage of Haryana judicial services recruitment examination, the   Chandigarh on Thursday told the court that he would personally monitor the investigation.

 While appearing in person before the HC on Thursday, DGP Chandigarh Tajender Singh Luthra accepted that there were some gaps during the investigation carried by the SIT but assured that from now onwards, he would personally monitor the investigation of the case on day-to-day basis. Luthra further assured the court he would ensure that no such gaps were left in future by the SIT.
 
 The full bench comprising Justice Rajesh Bindal, Justice Rajan Gupta and Justice G S Sandhawalia of the HC, which is monitoring the case, would now hear the case on Wednesday.
 
 During the hearing of the case, the bench once again criticized the role of SIT in the present case observing, “Complicity at some level appears to be there.”
 
 “The case was related to Haryana Police but for a fair and independent investigation, we had handed over the matter to UT police. An order was passed in February by the trial court but till April you had not done anything. What kind of investigation was carried in this case, it was not a murder case…Why don’t you have a special cell to deal with such cases?” observed the bench.
 
 Further criticizing the prosecution for their casual approach and vague replies before the trial court, the bench said that all replies should have been vetted at the level of director prosecution.
 
 Earlier on Wednesday, the HC went to the extent of observing that the investigating team of Chandigarh Police were putting “chilies in the eyes” of the court in this case.
 
 The HC was upset over the manner in which the SIT had shared the statements of witnesses recorded under Section 164 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) with the accused on directions of trial court, without filing any appeal against such orders before the high court.
 
 The entire scam was unearthed after Suman, a resident of Pinjore in   district, had filed a petition before HC seeking registration of a criminal case into leakage of the examination of prestigious services.
 
 An internal probe conducted by the HC had found the registrar (recruitment)   responsible for leakage of paper to one of the candidates Sunita. Later, the case was registered and SIT was constituted to probe the matter.
 
 
