PATNA: Police are yet to nab the criminals involved in the murder of Alok Chandra (31), who was   branch manager of Bank of Baroda (BoB). Three mobike-borne criminals had shot him dead on NH-110 near Nihalpur under the Parasbigha police station area in Jehanabad district on Monday when Alok was on way to the bank from his native village Kutir in Nawada district.

 Jehanabad SP Maneesh Kumar said the police have narrowed down to two three suspects. “Raids are being conducted to nab them. We are probing the case from all possible angles,” he told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Police sources claim the crime might have been related to business of the branch where he was posted. “We have not been able to identify any suspect as of now, but the matter seems to be related to the bank affairs,” an officer at Parasbigha PS had told this newspaper on Monday.
 
 Alok’s uncle Mukesh Singh, who had lodged the FIR, said, “He never talked to us about any threat or dispute with anyone either related to bank or outside.” 
 
 Arwal police said Alok had provided crucial information in a case related to alleged bungling in the disbursement of nearly Rs8 lakh of Indira Awas Yojana through his branch for running consumer service centres in 2017. “When sought, the branch manager (Alok) had provided information about consumer service centres being operated at Balsara, Telpa, Usri and Mehandia. It was found that one Dipak Kumar was authorized to run the centres at Balsara, Telpa and Usri only, but he was illegally running the centres from Mehandia. Later, a case was lodged on July 8, 2017 for embezzlement of about Rs8 lakh IAY money. Investigations revealed the involvement of Dipak’s wife and brother,” Mehandia police station in charge Matendra Kumar had said.
 
 Arwal SP Umashankar Prasad, on the other hand, said Alok never informed the police about any threat or other issues related to people dealing with his branch. “We had held a meeting of officials from all banks in Arwal district on May 4 and asked them if they had any issues of middlemen or threats. Though Alok was present in the meeting, he did not raise any such issue,” he said.
 
 Alok had studied at Gopalganj till Class VIII and passed Class XII from Delhi. He graduated from the Institute of Hotel Management, Catering and Nutrition, Pusa, New Delhi in 2008. He was recruited as probationary officer in BoB in 2011. Sources said he got married in November, 2013 with Nisha Kumari from Silao in Nalanda district and they have a three-year- old son. 
 
 
