THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It was mid ’70s. A wide-eyed girl, hardly 14 years old, arrived in a cycle-rickshaw to meet filmmaker N  . Looking at the lean frame of the teen, many were sceptical about her bagging the role of the heroine, except the director. The movie was Thulavarsham, released in 1976, and new heroine  , who exceeded the expectations of the director, went on to rule Indian cinema.

 She played Ammini, a naive Valluvanadan girl blindly in love with Mani until she gets to know that her lover slept with rich women to make money. “It was a significant character and her first outing as heroine in   cinema. Her mother, who accompanied her to meet the director, was looking for a more glamorous role. But it was a plum role, wearing mundu and blouse, and she played sister to  ,” recalls yesteryear actor Usharani, wife of Sankaran Nair.
 
 
  
 “He would come and tell me that she was going to be a big star and he wasn’t wrong. I am proud that my husband introduced such a powerhouse of talent to Malayalam industry,” she said.
 
 The film wasn’t a massive hit, but it set the stage for a girl who was raring to wipe off the slightest hint of cynicism regarding her age.
 
 Until then, she had been  , known for films like Jayalalithaa’s Thirumangalyam, in Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam. As a child actor too, she was noted for her acting prowess. Her portrayal of an orphan’s sufferings at the hands of her step mother in the film Poompatta, a classic Cinderella tale, had won her best child actor award instituted by the state in 1971.
 
 Thulavarsham paved way for roles that far betrayed her age in other languages also. K Balachander’s   had Sridevi playing a woman who marries the father of the man who has derailed her life.
 
 Later she was seen in an array of movies helmed by I V Sasi and P G Vishvambharan in Malayalam and most of them passed off as average flicks except for catchy songs like Neela jalashayathil, Yamune nee ozhukumo, Kelinalinam, etc. It would remain one of the biggest puzzles as to how Malayalam cinema, known for its creative flair, failed to utilize Sridevi, who made it big in other industries.
 
 “Malayalam cinema never actually tapped the full potential of her,” says veteran scriptwriter John Paul. By early 80s, she completely vanished from Malayalam and started spreading her wings in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada and Hindi.
 
 It took over a decade to see her back in Malayalam, through Bharathan’s Devaragam. “Budget was one reason, but beyond that nobody seemed to have sensed that she would be first and biggest woman superstar Indian cinema has ever produced,” a film academic says.
 
