By- Anup Dutta

 JORHAT: On the occasion of the state's biggest festival - Magh Bihu - more than 2,000 villagers from about 300 households in   district's   have come together to relive the momentary brush of fame that the village had in 1977 when Prime Minister   miraculously survived a plane crash here. The traditional bhela ghar that has been constructed here to mark Bihu resembles an aircraft - meant to evoke the ill-fated TU-124 V-643 Pushpak aircraft. 
 
 Tekela Gaon, which was renamed ' ' in memory of the 1977 incident, is a remote village 16 km from Jorhat town. Over 80% of the population in this village are farmers. Magh Bihu, therefore, is marked here with fervour every year. This year, the villagers have decided to recreate the scene that this village saw on the evening of November 4 in 1977 when the Prime Minister's plane crash-landed at a nearby paddy field, killing five pilots.
 
 The villagers had offered primary treatment to the Prime Minister and the other passengers who sustained injuries, as the eyes of the entire nation focussed on this nondescript village for the briefest periods.
 
 On December 17 this year, a public meeting in the village resolved that the bhela ghar - the traditional structure built for the purpose of a bonfire on Bihu - would resemble the former PM's aircraft. Ghanakanta Borah, a native of the village, designed the project. As news of the project spread, villagers from different parts of the district flocked to see this unique structure.
 
 Nabin Baruah, at whose house Morarji Desai had received treatment for about an hour on that fateful day, said, "It gives us immense pleasure that we got the chance to offer treatment to Morarji Desai. It was a remarkable day for us and we are always trying to keep this memory alive for our village. We have formed a 81-member organizing committee for the event and a 'Prime Minister plane crash memory preservation committee' with specific objectives."
 
 Bitupan Bora, the secretary of the preservation committee, said, "It is our sincere effort to preserve the memory of Morarji Desai's plane crash which took place about 40 years ago."
 
 Diganta Senapati a member of the committee, said, "We have also built up a symbolic statue of the former Prime Minister with two villagers - Indeshwar Baruah and Lalit Baruah - at the crash site. These two villagers had reached the spot and rescued the Prime Minister minutes after the incident."
 
 
