CHANDIGARH:   lokayukta’s office has complained about non-cooperative attitude of   raj, urban bodies and town and country planning departments when it comes to compliance of reports or directions issued by it from time to time. In his 186-page report submitted to the Haryana governor, lokayukta Justice   (retd) had highlighted the plight of his office in the absence of regular staff.

 According to the report, the pendency of cases has gone up to 1,358, including 708 complaints filed during 2017. “At this place, it is also pointed out that as and when any request is made for filling up the vacancies of this institution, the same is not taken seriously and still many of them are lying vacant. This hampers the smooth working of this institution. It is therefore, recommended that steps should be taken to streamline the recruitment procedure in lokayukta organization. The present system of borrowing the employees on deputation from other state government departments needs to be amended and lokayukta should be given free hand in this respect, like other heads of departments,” the report mentioned.
 
 The report said the government departments not only missed the deadlines of reverting with action taken reports on probes marked to them by the lokayukta’s office despite repeated reminders, but also there had been instances when it had to act tough against officials concerned in those departments for action to be initiated.
 
 “Due to the attitude adopted by the higher authorities, the action on the complaints at the end of this institution gets delayed, and accordingly allegations and grievances raised under the act by the complainants are not redressed in the prescribed time,” the report said.
 
 The report said the departments which had failed to execute actions include: Panchayati raj, urban local bodies and town and country planning departments.
 
 “I, therefore, recommend that whenever allegation about inaction on the part of the authorities in the department of urban local bodies in not taking actions in various cases and not cooperating with this institution of lokayukta, a very stern action should be taken against the delinquent public servants so that it serves as a deterrent against such attitude on their part in future,” the lokayukta said in his report.
 
 When contacted, officials in the Haryana chief secretary’s office informed that soon after receipt of report from the governor’s office, chief secretary had issued necessary instructions to all departments.
 
 
