KOCHI: While most vegetables are facing a downward trend in their prices after Vishu, the prices of beans, ginger and coriander leaves have shot up. According to vegetable vendors in the city, the prices have increased due to the shortage of supplies of these items resulting from a drought like situation in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. 

 
  
 
 "The price of beans has increased from Rs 30 to Rs 80 per kg. The best quality ginger is now being sold for Rs 100 per kg. In April the price of ginger was Rs 60 per kg and during Vishu it increased to Rs 80 and now it has almost doubled. Coriander leaves are now being sold for Rs 100 (one big bunch). The price of potatoes, bitter gourds have also increased from Rs 20 to Rs 30 per kg," said Shameed, a   at   Market.
 
 "Earlier around 1-2 tonnes of beans used to arrive at Ernakulam market on a daily basis from Tamil Nadu. But in the past few weeks we are not even getting half of that quantity. In addition to that, the demand for beans is always there in general, irrespective of months or seasons," said Nazeer M, a vendor at the market.
 
 It is the price of ginger and coriander that common people are finding hard to digest. "Earlier we only had to spend around Rs 30 for ginger and coriander but this time we are forced to avoid these items in our dishes due to the exorbitant price rise," said Usha Mani, a home-maker.
 
 K K Ashraf, vice-president of   said that the continuous fall in ginger prices in the past few years had forced farmers, especially in   from where we mainly source, to stay away from  .
 
 "We are forced to depend on neighbouring states, including Karnataka for procuring ginger. But due to drought in Karnataka, the ginger cultivation and production have taken a backseat and the supply is hit as of now. Once it stabilizes the prices will come down," said Ashraf.
 
 Government authorities have different opinions when discussing the fluctuating prices of vegetables especially beans.
 
 "In states like Tamil Nadu the production of beans is facing a huge threat as the flowers are withered due to high temperature while in Kerala the incessant rains are destroying the beans cultivation," said Rosemary Joy, assistant director of agriculture department, Ernakulam.
 
 
