GANDHINAGAR: With its eye on the 2019 general elections, the   government has set the ball rolling to appease the non-reserved classes like   who had given the BJP nightmares during the 2017 assembly elections, with their unrelenting quota agitation. The Gujarat social justice and empowerment department has issued a government resolution (GR) and fixed norms to be issued for eligibility certificates for non-reserved class families so that they may get benefits under various government schemes. For the economically backward class certificates, the state government has followed procedural criteria close to that fixed for the SC/ST certificates.

 The government has said the certificates will provide access to benefits under proposed welfare schemes. However, it is yet to notify the detailed welfare schemes, or the income criteria required to get their benefits.
 
 K G Vanzara, additional secretary, social justice and empowerment department, who issued the GR, said, “The state government will formulate the schemes and income criteria for the beneficiaries separately. This GR is only for setting up a mechanism to receive, verify and issue non-reserved caste certificates.’’ According to the GR issued on May 30, the government has termed non-reserved castes as such castes, “which are not in the prescribed list of scheduled castes, scheduled tribes or in the list of socially and economically backward castes.’’
 
 The state government has designated all officials competent to issue SC, ST and   certificates for issuing the non-reserved caste certificates. Under this GR, any collector, additional collector, deputy collector, DDO, deputy DDO, mamlatdar, TDO, district director (developing castes), and district social welfare officer can issue the non-reserved caste certificate. 
 
 These certificates can be issued only to people of Gujarat domicile. In case of rejection of the application, or certificate considered to be fake, an appeal can be made to the competent higher authority in the district hierarchy. In case of an order by the collector, appeal can be filed before the director (developing castes). Collectors have been directed to form a district committee to set the procedure and system to issue the non-reserved caste certificates.
 
 
