CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has come out with a detailed project report for rejuvenation of the polluted  . The indicative cost of the project is Rs 955 crore. 

 
 The local bodies department has been asked to frame a plan on the basis of the report to address the issue of restoring the drain that has been polluted due to discharge of industrial waste and untreated effluents from factories. 
 
 A senior Punjab government officer said of the total project cost, Rs 550 crore would be borne under the Central government’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and   schemes. The state government would bear rest of the cost. 
 
 As per the project report, Ludhiana city has electroplating, textile and dairy industries which generate complex effluents. These effluents are required to be treated in specialized treatment plants and then released in the channel. Nearly 327 million litres per day (MLD) of sewage and 200 MLD of industrial effluents were being generated in Ludhiana. About 200 MLD of waste water is generated by electroplating, dairy and dyeing industries, and about 488 MLD by human habitation alongside the water body, including hotels and hospital establishments. And this untreated waste is being discharged into the drain, the project report adds.
 
 As per the inception report for Buddha Nullah rejuvenation, interceptor sewer would cost around Rs 422 crore, upgrade and capacity augmentation of sewage treatment plants would require an outlay of around Rs 398 crore, construction of effluent treatment plants would cost Rs 44 crore, channelization of nullah and road widening would entail an expenditure of Rs 14 crore and landscaping Rs 77 crore.
 
 Buddha Nullah was once a perennial stream flowing into Satluj and a source of fresh water for Ludhiana. It is a seasonal tributary of Satluj. It emanates from the confluence of the Kum Link drain and the Neelon drain near   village and  , and flows in an east-west direction south of the Satluj river. The drain runs almost parallel to the river through most of Ludhiana district and ultimately merges with the river at   in the north-western corner of the district.
 
