GHAZIABAD: The   government has set aside substantial amounts for the metro project and the regional rapid transport system in  , a move aimed at boosting connectivity in NCR.

 In the budget tabled in the Assembly on Friday, Rs 500 crore has been earmarked for various metro projects in the state, including the under-construction Dilshad Garden-New Bus Stand corridor in Ghaziabad that has been progressing at a snail’s pace apparently because of delay in release of funds by various stakeholders. 
 
 A sum of Rs 250 crore has also been allocated for the construction of the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor, which is being undertaken by the NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC).
 
 “The last installment released to the GDA (for the metro corridor) was Rs 80 crore by the UP housing and development board. We are yet to ascertain the share that Ghaziabad will get from the amount allocated in the budget for various metro projects. Till now, more than 95% work has been completed on laying the tracks along the corridor. The release of the funds will definitely expedite the project, for which we have set a June deadline,” said a GDA official.
 
 Officials in the NCRTC said the targeted date for operating the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor had been set at 2024. The corridor, which will start from the Sarai Kale Khan Terminus and pass through Sahibabad, Guldhar, Duhai, Muradnagar, Modinagar to terminate at Modipuram in Meerut, will reduce travel time between Delhi and Meerut to about an hour.
 
 “In the Union budget earlier, the central government had allocated Rs 659 crore for this project. On this corridor, we have planned multi-modal integration at multiple places. Sarai Kale Khan, Anand Vihar, Sahibabad are a few such points where passengers can interchange for other available modes of transport,” said Sudhir Sharma, the chief public relations officer of NCRTC.
 
 NCRTC has already created the first field unit in Ghaziabad while pre-construction work on the Delhi-Meerut section has started. This apart, a sum of Rs 94.26 crore has been allocated for the Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan in Indirapuram. 
 
 The building, for which land has been procured from the GDA at a cost of around Rs 50 crore, will be constructed by Uttar Pradesh Rajkiya Nirman Nigam.
 
 “Regarding the budget allocation, we have got Rs 13 crore for the land of Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan that is being constructed in Indirapuram. We may also have to contribute around Rs 50 crore for the proposed rapid rail transit system corridor, which runs from Delhi to Meerut, for the Ghaziabad section,” said district magistrate and GDA vice-chairperson Ritu Maheshwari.
 
 
