LUDHIANA: Setting a unique example — mainly for women who had to quit their studies at a young age due to financial problems or family issues — is   (44), who appeared for her Class 10 board exams here on Tuesday along with her son Deepak Kumar Sathi, at the Government Senior Secondary School, Haibowal.

 Rajni — who works as a ward attendant at the   here — has came up with a strong message for those women who still have a dream to pursue their education, which they could not do so for personal and domestic reasons. The mother-son duo have became a talking point among examiners and students, for appearing together at the examination hall.
 
 Rajni said: “When I was a 15-year-old, I had to quit my studies following some tussle between my parents. After that, I had decided to marry   when I turned 18 at the insistence of my parents. I took admission in St Patrick School, Haibowal, though not in the regular class, but open class, as I cannot attend classes on a regular basis. Since I am also working at home, it became difficult for me to pursue studies, so I took one month leave from my job to prepare for my exams. Apart from today’s exam which was for Physical Education, I have to appear in two more forthcoming board exams, along with my son. One falls on March 24 ( ), and the last one is Science on March 27.”
 
 She added: “The only reason I am able to appear for the board exams after such a long gap is my husband, because he helped me at each and every step to encourage me to fulfil my dream. We are people from families on the edge, who are struggling to meet their daily needs, but despite that, my husband supported me to take on the Board exams with proper training. I had also taken tuitions for one month, along with young faces of the city, which was quite exciting for me, as I started to remember my school days.” 
 
 She continued with a smile lighting up her face. “I would like to continue until I become a graduate in Hindi, or any other subject, as my husband has a strong belief in me, and feels I can become a source of inspiration for those who want to purse their education after a long gap,” added Bala.
 
 
