It will be a bittersweet moment for current SmackDown women’s champion   come the first-ever Women’s   on 28 January, 2018. Charlotte has been the centrepiece of women’s revolution in WWE, but she won’t be competing in the Rumble owing to her holding the championship. But she feels she is part of the journey and that is something no one can take away.

 In an exclusive conversation with TOI Sports, Charlotte talks about who she thinks could win the Rumble, what she feels about   and the crucial role of Sara Amato, the performance center coach in the women’s revolution among other things. 
 
 
 
 
 Definitely, I think first ever women’s Royal Rumble is just another step in the right direction. I don’t think it completes the women’s revolution. Women headlining WrestleMania will be big and I foresee that happening in the future. The women’s evolution is unstoppable, and another milestone that happened was Sasha and Alexa Bliss becoming the first-ever women wrestlers to perform in the middle east.
 
 
 
 
 Amato has had a huge impact. She was the first ever female brought in to work with the women wrestlers at the performance center. Her knowledge, her experience is immense and she has wrestled all over the world and being able to know what we go through as females in a male-dominated industry helped all of us a lot. I think she is one of the key elements to what changed in the women’s division. A few years ago, when FCW changed in to NXT and then NXT had its first-ever TakeOver pay-per-view, she had a big part to play. And just having a female presence in meetings, and having someone qualified as her, I think our collective effort and having her on our team made the difference.
 
 
  
 There are so many; actually, it is a tough question. I would say from RAW brand, Bayley is a fighter. Anyone who has followed her career would know she never gives up and she is the lovable underdog. From SmackDown, I would have to go with my best friend Becky Lynch, but personally I don’t want to face her at WrestleMania. She has shown that whenever she is knocked down, she gets right up. There are a lot of women in the division who are capable of winning. Sasha could win, Asuka could 100 per cent win that.
 
 
 
 
 I think Asuka is a superstar, she is incredibly talented and she made a name for herself even before coming to NXT. Yes, transition is difficult from NXT to the min roster, but it has only been few months for her and I think she is going to make a huge impact at The Royal Rumble and WrestleMania 34. She only scratched the surface of what she is capable of in NXT and we saw that during her undefeated streak. 
 
 
 
  
 I would actually have preferred go in at Number 1 to show that I could outlast everyone and win the Royal Rumble.
 
 
 
 
 The best women’s match of 2017 for me will be the Ladder match on SmackDown – because no one would have thought women’s ladder match happening in WWE but it was great to see that happen, but of course James Ellsworth ruined it for us.
 
 
 
 Up until few weeks ago, it was WrestleMania 32 facing Sasha Banks and Becky Lynch and winning the first ever RAW women’s championship after we rebranded the division. But a few weeks ago, I won the SmackDown championship in my home town of Charlotte, North Carolina. It had been hard couple of months for my family and winning the title against Natalya and my dad coming out in the end was very emotional. 
 
 
 
 
 I have had no interaction with her because of my schedule, but I think she will thrive in NXT and having the first-ever Indian women wrestler just shows that anything is possible for women all over the world. We also signed our first middle-eastern women wrestler as well. And people all over world are coming to NXT representing their country and I am very excited to see that 
 
 
