KANPUR:   survivor and her family members are likely to meet Congress president   and his mother   in Delhi on May 10 and seek justice in the rape case involving BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who is currently lodged in jail.

 The survivor and her family will travel to Delhi on May 9 to attend an event organised by the   (IUML).
 
 The survivor’s family has censured the ruling BJP in the state claiming that “none from the party ever contacted them or expressed solidarity”.
 
 “Since the MLA involved in the case is from BJP, no party member has visited us or assured that we get justice,” they alleged.
 
 They also slammed the Unnao district administration alleging that the “authorities are hand-in-glove with the MLA and his henchmen”.
 
 “We are going to Delhi on May 9 to attend a programme for which we have been invited by IUML. The next day we may also meet Rahul Gandhi and his mother Sonia. If we meet them, we will certainly demand justice. We have doubts regarding the probe in the case since Kuldeep Sengar belongs to the party which is power both at the Centre and state,” the rape survivor’s uncle told TOI on Monday.
 
 “Why Kuldeep Sengar has not been shunted out of the BJP? The BJP is trying to save its rape-tainted MLA and this is the reason why Kuldeep has not been removed from the party. Till date no one from the party has come to meet the girl (rape survivor) or us to motivate us and ensure that we get justice,” he added.
 
 “If I tell my nieces (including the survivor) that I wish to go to Delhi to take care of my business, they express fear and sink in grief. Now their father is also not in the world. As they feel that they are not safe in Unnao, I am staying back and will fight for justice,” he said.
 
 “We will come back from Delhi on May 11 and stay here till the CBI is conducting inquiry,” he said, adding that he and the entire family was yet to get their statements recorded before a magistrate under section 164 of CrPc.
 
 He alleged that the Unnao administration has not replied to an application moved by him on April 30, bringing to its notice that Manoj Singh, the younger brother of Kuldeep Sengar, had visited their village and threatened the villagers asking them to keep their mouth shut and not to speak against their family (including Kuldeep Sengar).
 
 “There is no change in the attitude of the Unnao district administration,” alleged the survivor’s uncle.
 
