Porvorim: The state government on Wednesday said that it will give a 30-day extension for individuals to apply for regularization of illegal structures that have been built on private land.  Revenue minister Rohan Khaunte announced the move and said that the proposal has been sent to the cabinet for approval. “We got feedback that many people could not apply because of the election process and many MLAs brought this issue up in the assembly,” Khaunte said, adding, “The chief minister has agreed to give people an additional 30 days.” In 2016, the legislative assembly passed the Goa Regularisation of Unauthorised Construction Bill, under which only ‘genuine’ structures existing before February 28, 2014, would be considered for regularisation. The state revenue department received around 5,000-6,000 applications for regularization and the window to apply came to an end in January. “We said that we will ensure that all the scrutiny takes place in a time-bound manner. The proposal has been sent for cabinet approval and will come out anytime. People will get 30 days to apply for regularizing their structures in private land subject to the land not being in CRZ or no-development zones,” Khaunte said. Regularisation of residential or commercial unauthorised construction in one’s own property, or carried out by a co-owner with written consent of other owners in a joint property, or dwelling houses by mundkar, construction on institutional land with proper consent, are being considered by the revenue department. Khaunte did clarify that other than the extension, there would be no other change in the norms of the Goa Regularisation of Unauthorised Construction Act.  “We will maintain the same date of February 28, 2014. There will be no change other than a 30-day extension,” he said. Khaunte said that provisions will be put in place to assist applicants.  The state revenue department has received around 5,000-6,000 applications for regularization and the window period to apply came to an end in January