CHANDIGARH:   local bodies and tourism minister Navjot Singh   on Friday said the special task force ( ) on   had enough evidence against former minister and Shiromani Akali Dal MLA Bikram Singh   and sought his arrest.

 Sidhu, who was accompanied by his wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu, said at a press conference here that Majithia should be arrested on the basis of the findings of the STF report. “The issue is not about the next elections, but about next generation. Bikram Majithia should be arrested and there should be action against him on the basis of this evidence,” said Sidhu.
 
 Reading out the contents of the 34-page report of the findings submitted before the Punjab and Haryana high court, Sindhu said: “The findings say there is sufficient prima facie evidence to probe Bikram Majithia’s role and his involvement in drugs. The report clearly says whether it was Bittu Aulakh or (Jagjit Singh) Chahal, Majithia had very close relations with them. They used to stay with him and it was at his behest that they came into drug trade. Right from sand mining to drug trade even when there were fights between them over some issue, it was Majithia who used to intervene and got compromises done.”
 
 He further said, “These findings are also there that government vehicles and official gunmen were given as shield to them and Bikram Majithia used government machinery as shield for these activities.”
 
 Reacting strongly to Sidhu’s allegations, Majithia said the Congress minister had committed contempt of court. “The STF has given this report in a sealed cover to the high court. The case is being monitored by the high court. This is nothing new. If Navjot Sidhu has addressed the press conference on this report, he has committed contempt of court. Who handed over this report to Sidhu? Is Sidhu above high court?” Majithia said in a statement.
 
 “I believe in God and the process of law. Courts have always given me justice. I do not need certificates from the opposition. Arvind Kejriwal’s apology to me is a slap on the face of these Bunty and Bubbly. I am exposing nexus. Sukhpal Khaira has been exposed by the court. For every citizen, the court’s verdict is final. Sidhu has been convicted by the court in a murder case and he still stands convicted. It seems this juicy report has been prepared at Sidhu’s behest and at Sidhu’s place,” his statement further read.
 
 Addressing the reporters, Sidhu hailed the role of Captain Amarinder Singh in giving directions for forming the STF and said it was due to instructions of “our leader that the STF was formed and now such findings have come out in which very sensitive aspersions are cast on Majithia, which should be further probed.”
 
 When asked if he was demanding action from his own government, Sidhu added that before proceeding further, the Amarinder government had been waiting for concrete evidence so that a strong case is made out.
 
 “Credit goes to  , who formed STF that exposed things, which have been going around for 10 years during Akali government,” he added.
 
 
