BENGALURU: The steady stream of   walking into   in Sarjapura seeking treatment for stomach ache, vomiting and giddiness continued on Tuesday.

 With over 30 workers approaching during the day, the hospital has so far treated 120 employees of   near Anekal as inpatients and 145 as outpatients. 
 
 The workers showed symptoms of  , after allegedly consuming contaminated drinking water. “A 23-year-old woman, in the second trimester of her pregnancy, was admitted while two other pregnant women were treated as outpatients,” said Dr  , head of medical services, Town Hospital.
 
 An HR executive of the factory has been stationed at the hospital to facilitate treatment. Ten patients are being treated in ICU. “While some are suffering from acute stomach ache, others are psychologically affected seeing others suffering. The symptoms have subsided in such cases and they are being treated in the outpatient department,” said Dr Gururaj Kenagi, general physician. 
 
 Radha M, 30, was admitted again on Tuesday, a day after she was discharged. “My condition worsened after I was discharged and hence I came back to the hospital,” said Radha, a tailor. She was one of those who suffered from stomach ache since Saturday.
 
 The outbreak of an infection started on May 24, but came to light only on Monday, said health department officials.
 
 It’s not GE or food poisoning, says dept
 
 While doctors at Town Hospital suspect the patients are suffering from gastroenteritis (GE), the health department denied it. 
 
 “The common symptoms among all are stomach ache, vomiting, giddiness and nausea. Very few have symptoms of loose stools. These are not cases of GE, but an outbreak of an infection, the nature of which is yet to be ascertained,” said Dr Sunanda Reddy, district vector-borne disease control officer, who headed a team of doctors which visited the hospital and the factory premises on Tuesday.
 
 The team said the dining area in the factory was too small for the staff. “As the company was not providing food, the staff used to get it on their own. They were provided with drinking water by the company, supplied through taps after reverse osmosis process,” they said.
 
 Factory closed
 
 The factory remained closed on Tuesday. Except for the construction work going on for additional reverse osmosis plants for treating water, there was no activity on the premises. 
 
 The district administration has instructed the factory to stop its operations till the investigation is over and no-objection certificates from all agencies concerned are obtained. Officials from the department of factories, boilers, industrial safety and health inspected the spot and assessed the safety standards. 
 
 Bisappa, general manager, Silver Crest Clothing Private Limited, said the company will bear the medical expenditure of the affected workers. “We’ve also sent water samples taken before the tanks were cleaned for testing. Only 150 of our 2,400 workers have been affected,” he said.
 
 
