PUNE: A disciplinary panel of the   has imposed a two-year restraint on the grant of   to a police constable who tried to   himself on the premises of   on August 15, 2015.

 The constable, who was posted with the Nigdi police at the time of the suicide attempt, had gone to Talegaon Dabhade police station in his uniform to lodge a complaint about a family problem.
 
 He tried to immolate himself when he could not secure a ‘satisfactory response’ from the authorities there. As of now, the constable is posted with the   police headquarters for vigilance duties.
  
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (headquarters) B G Gaikar conducted an enquiry and issued the notification about the punishment to the constable.
 
 The notification stated that the constable maligned the image of his uniform and the police emblems by indulging in such an activity.
 
 “He (the constable) had gone to the police station with a can full of petrol. He issued threats of dire consequences to the police station in-charge and the other officers. He then doused himself with the petrol and attempted self-immolation,” the notification said.
 
 A case against the constable was registered with the Talegaon Dabhade police the same day.
 
 According to the police, the constable was accompanied by his wife and children at the time of the bid. When he reached the police station, he abused the constables and senior police officers posted there. The officers tried to pacify him but, the constable threatened them of dire consequences. There were visitors inside the police station. The constables at the police station overpowered him.
 
 A senior police officer told TOI that the constable should have resorted to legal means to solve his personal issues, which according to him were not taken into consideration by the police officers of Talegaon Dabhade police station.
 
 “He is a policeman and knows how to set the law into motion. He could have approached senior police officers to resolve his issues instead of attempting self-immolation, that too in the uniform,” the officer said.
 
