Chennai: A nine-year-old boy on Wednesday night had his life brutally snuffed out by his mother’s friend, who kidnapped the child and slit his throat before clubbing him to death with an iron rod in an office in a residential complex in  .

 Investigators arrested E Nagaraj, 27, a   with a private builder, for the crime on Thursday morning. He told them that he killed K Rithesh Sai “to teach the boy’s father a lesson” — for warning Nagaraj to sever all ties with his wife, Manjula, 38, a   assistant engineer.
 
 “Nagaraj took Rithesh away from a tuition class in   at 6.30pm on Wednesday,” an officer probing the case said.
 
 “Nagaraj said the boy had to see a doctor for an eye problem,” the officer said. “The tuition teacher, under the impression that Nagaraj was a family friend, allowed the boy to go with him.”
 
 By the time Rithesh’s father S Karthikeyan, 38, an interior designer, arrived to pick him up as usual, Nagaraj had taken the boy on his motorcycle to a restaurant in Pallavaram, where he halted on his way to Selaiyur.
 
 The bike broke down near Selaiyur and Nagaraj took Rithesh by autorickshaw to Harini’s Aishwaryam apartments on IAF Road in Indira Nagar, Selaiyur, where the company he worked for had an office on the second floor.
 
 “They got there at 7.30pm and Nagaraj led Rithesh upstairs after taking the keys from a security guard,” the officer said. “He locked the door and smothered the boy before slitting his throat with a broken bottle.”
 
 “Nagaraj tried to kill himself by swallowing household cleaning fluid but threw up,” he said. “He then realised that the boy was still alive and beat him to death with a rod. Nagaraj left the body where it lay and fled the scene. We arrested him in Nesapakkam at 6.30am on Thursday.”
 
 Nagaraj told the police that they would find the body in the apartment in Selaiyur.
 
 “Manjula — who got a job with TNEB after the death of her first husband with whom she had a daughter, who is now in the care of relatives — tried to assure Karthikeyan that Nagaraj wouldn’t harm the child,” the officer said. But he filed a complaint with the MGR Nagar police.”
 
 “Nagaraj and Manjula grew close as neighbours in Nesapakkam,” he said. Karthikeyan’s warnings had no effect on Nagaraj or Manjula and the woman decided to file for divorce. Relatives helped the couple patch up. The police later arrested Nagaraj after Karthikeyan complained that he had stolen Manjula’s chain. Out on bail, Nagaraj moved to Annai Sathya Nagar, Ramapuram, but continued to visit Manjula.”
 
 
