LAHORE: Pakistan has extended the visa of the Indian woman who had embraced Islam after marrying a local man during her visit to Pakistan to attend the Baisakhi festival for six more months, according to a media report on Tuesday. 

 Kiran Bala, who after converting to Islam has taken the name Amna Bibi, had applied for Pakistani citizenship and visa extension. Kiran, who hailed from Hoshiarpur district, had arrived in Lahore by a special train on April 12 to attend Baisakhi celebrations. During her visit, she embraced Islam and married a resident of Hingerwal, Lahore, on April 16 at a ceremony held at an Islamic seminary there.
 
 She had moved the Lahore high court on April 21 as her visa was expiring. The high court extended her visa by 30 days and also directed the   to decide whether she was eligible for the six-month extension as per her application. Approval for the visa extension of the woman was granted on Monday, the Express Tribune reported. 
 
 Confirming the extension of her visa for the next six months, her Pakistani husband Muhammad Azam said that, "I will receive the passport and other documents." The interior ministry, acting on the orders of the Lahore high court, had summoned Bala and her husband to Islamabad. The couple appeared before the officer concerned on Monday but there was a delay as she was not carrying her passport, which was with the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB). Her passport was needed for verification of the first visa. Usually, the ETPB keeps the travel documents of visiting Indian pilgrims. 
 
 The ETPB later gave Bala's passport to the immigration authorities after which her visa was verified, following which, the approval for an extension of the visa for six more months was granted, the report said. "I am hopeful of getting the Pakistani nationality too," she was quoted as saying in the report. According to the present laws in India and Pakistan, nationality is granted by both countries after seven years, the report said. PTI 
 
 
