
The drawing up of a judicious regional plan (RP) may generally appear to be an important issue. It is actually much more than that, as it is intrinsically linked to Goa’s green future. Wise and careful planning to protect Goa’s fragile ecology and salvage what is left after the barrage of intensive development during the last few decades should be a top priority. Pursuing sustainable development with due assessment of likely environmental damage has not been a way of thinking among the political class.
 
 
  
 
 Goa switched into the planning mode post-liberation after the town and country planning ( ) department was set up in December 1964. But with a minister holding this portfolio and bureaucrats enjoying powers to make land use changes, the first regional plan notified by 1986 was not sacrosanct from the pressures of various lobbies, including tourism. Frequent changes were made along the way for considerations, marring the planning process.
 
 As a sequel to the first plan, the state brought in RP 2011, which overlooked people’s participation and envisaged conversion of huge tracts of ecosensitive land for commercial purpose.RP 2021 relied on people’s inputs at the draft stage, but the government finalized the plan in a nontransparent manner, riddled with errors.
 
 “People’s participation is important along with sound principles of planning for sustainable development,” says convener,  , Sabina Martins.
 
 But a popular demand for planning under provisions of the 73rd and 74th amendments of the Constitution of India has been sidetracked by successive governments. The amendments envisage devolution of more powers to local self-governing bodies. It was people’s power under the GBA that scuttled RP 2011 and forced the government to send a draft to the panchayats for local inputs. The fresh uprising, led by  , against RP 2021 and the constitution of planning and development authorities (PDAs), is also trying to break the shackles of control that politicians and bureaucrats are trying to exert on the planning process.
 
 The planning, aided by technical expertise and people’s inputs, has to factor in judicious land use to ensure a good quality of life for the state. Planning cannot happen in a state of ambiguity, which the government seems to prefer to facilitate questionable decision-making to benefit certain lobbies, activists allege.
 
 RP 2021 was a good plan in some respects, but it lacked by way of data in various spheres. “Section 10 of TCP Act talks about data collection. Without data, the planning will not be proper,” says member, Goencho Avaaz, Abhijit Prabhudesai.
 
 Can the recent uprising prove instrumental in bringing the politicians, bureaucrats and people together to the planning board?
 
