HYDERABAD: Alarm bells are ringing for AP and Telangana as water levels at Srisailam and   reservoirs are dipping at a fast pace in March.

 Indicating severe water shortage in summer, the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on Thursday wrote to the two states to spell out their opinion on sharp dip in water level below minimum draw down level (MDDL). The board estimated water levels will go below MDDL by Marchend and told the two states to get ready to share water below MDDL. This sent shockwaves in both states, which have standing crop in more than 25 lakh acres for rabi season.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 “Leave alone irrigation, what about drinking water needs of Hyderabad, Nalgonda, Rangareddy districts in Telangana and Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam in   in April, May, June and July. As there is no possibility of fresh inflows into these dams till July, it will be a testing time for both states as there is no storage to meet drinking water need in summer,” said a senior official of Telangana irrigation department.
 
  
  
 
 
 Currently, less than 25.7 TMC ft water is left in Krishna river, above MDDL to serve water needs of two states for next 90 days! The water level at Srisailam reservoir has plummeted to 837 ft, just 3 feet above MDDL. This forced AP government to halt further release from the dam. In 2002, the dam hit 778 ft after the government let out water to overcome severe drought. Water level at Nagarjunasagar dam stood at 520.5 ft, just 10 feet above MDDL. At MDDL, both reservoirs have 25.7 TMC feet water and if both states go below MDDL another 41TMC will be available for two states.
 
  
  
 
 
 But under Telugu Ganga agreement, about 15 TMC feet water should be given to Chennai city from this and at the same time, 16.5 TMC should be reserved for drinking water needs of Hyderabad city.
  
  
 
 
 “This is only possible if both states agree to go below MDDL. But both have to maintain restraint while utilising remaining water,” said KRMB sources. Once water level at Nagarjunasagar dam dips below 507 feet, water has to be pumped from left canal to   reservoir that supplies water to Hyderabad. Any further fall in water level is likely to pose a threat to water supplies to the city. “With the present pumping system we can at best draw 5 TMC ft as motors will work only up to 502 ft level. To draw water from below the 502 ft mark, we need specialised pumping mechanism,” said an irrigation official. Water-powered pump (WPP) units need to be installed to ensure water supply to Hyderabad.
 
 
 
 To save rabi crop under Nagarjunasagar Zone-1and Zone -2, nearly 18 TMC feet water is needed. Last year, when the situation deteriorated, irrigation minister Harish Rao rushed to Bengaluru to plead with Karnataka to release at least one TMC feet water to tide over the drinking water shortage to Hyderabad. Irrigation officials point out this time there is no such possibility as Alamatti and Naryanapur in Karnataka also have meagre reserves.
 
 Traditional water sources, including Himayat Sagar, Osman Sagar, Singur and Manjira reservoirs are no longer able to sustain Hyderabad’s supply and dependency has now shifted to Krishna and Godavari rivers.
 
