PANAJI: While historians claim that the Goa liberation treaty was signed in  , many still swear by the story which states that the treaty was signed between India and the Portuguese below the headlights of a car of the then governor general at  .

 “It was pitch dark that night and the headlights of this car was the only source of light,” said history lover  . This light, under which Goa’s fate was sealed, shone as brightly in the Inox courtyard on Sunday in the presence of hundreds that gathered around the car to take a quick selfie.
 
 This was at the second edition of the Goa Vintage Bike and Car festival that was held at the premises.
 
 Organized by the Goa Tourism Development Corporation Ltd (GTDC), the festival drew in large crowds of automobile aficionados in the state.
 
 Visitors’ interest was particularly piqued by a menacing-looking 1939 Volkswagen tempo which had an old telescope installed upon its bonnet. “It’s a very ugly-looking car which served as an army staff carrier in World War II,” says its owner Dhananjay Badamikar.
 
 “A total of five such cars are there in the country (one of which is in Goa), but mine is the only one which is still in working condition. I am trying to find out how they made their way to India,” he said.
 
 “I wish to buy one of these someday,” said student of St Britto’s high school, Mapusa, Ruben Gracias as he seated himself on a 1968 model of a Lambretta scooter. “Vehicles today are all about technology. They lack the simplistic beauty of the vehicles of yore. The best part about this scooter is that it’s completely made of metal,” he added.
 
 Ponda-resident  , who restored the scooter, said that he first learnt how to ride a two-wheeler on this model. “Seeing people excitedly pose before it and ask about its history makes me feel that the restoration was worth it,” he said.
 
 At the festival, people feasted their eyes on a working replica of the Benz Patent-Motorwagen also regarded as the world’s first production automobile along with a diverse range of Chevrolet and   cars from the curator of the festival, Pradeep Naik’s personal collection.
 
 “I have 20 of my 50 cars on display at the festival. I feel satisfaction when I restore these cars. The older they are, the better it feels,” he said.
 
