CHANDIGARH: Absence of basic   has turned out to be the major reason behind the staggering footfall of passengers from the Panchkula-side of the Chandigarh  .

 
 Interestingly, the entry from   side at the station is usually not used by the passengers after 4pm even by the residents of Panchkula as the ticket counter located on this side is shut after the aforementioned time. During a visit to this side of the railway station, it was found that there was no waiting room, ATM facility, eateries, cloakroom, benches, fans and parcel room due to which the passengers do not prefer to enter from this side of the station. In fact the parking area has been limited to a small piece of land even though large chunk is available with the railways.
 
 Interestingly, the passengers who commute from Panchkula side and have to board the train from platform number 6 prefer to enter from the Chandigarh side of the station. The recently installed escalators and lift are the only source of relief to the passengers.
 
 After the construction of the platform number 6, the authorities are in the process of installation of a shed on the Panchkula side of the station. However, the passengers will have to wait for the remaining facilities.
 
 Hari Deep Kumar, director of the Chandigarh railway station, said after the construction of platform number 6 was completed, a detailed proposal of the required facilities on Panchkula side of the railway station was sent to the Ambala division as they are planning to increase the number of the trains plying from this side soon. He said demands have been raised for more staff, round the clock ticket counter, waiting room, retiring room and installation of coach guidance system. However, the final decision rests with the Amabala division, he added.
 
 Earlier too, in 2013, a proposal was mooted by Chandigarh section to construct eight rooms on the Panchkula side of the station to be used as waiting rooms and accommodation purpose for the administrative staff. Out of the eight rooms, four were to be used as waiting rooms—two each for general category and first class commuters— and the remaining four were to be made for the administrative staff of the including deputy station superintendent and ticketing staff. 
 
