LUCKNOW: Arrested by CBI in September 2017, the owners of Prasad Institute in Lucknow-the institute whose case was one of the reasons for the 'rebellion' of four senior Supreme Court judges - are unsure about the future of their case. 

 It was alleged that last year that the college bribed some influential people, including a retired Odisha high court judge  , to get a favourable order from Apex Court which was hearing a case about its future as the college was running without a Medical Council of India (MCI) recognition.
 
 The matter was being probed by the CBI which arrested five more persons besides Quddusi in September last year. Resident of plush   colony in  , promoters of the institute BP Yadav and his son Palash Yadav were accused by central agency of influencing the judiciary with help of Quddusi and others. The duo was arrested subsequently and wait for the next move of the agency. While the father and son duo were not willing to talk, TOI got in touch with a close friend of the Yadav family.
 
 "A special court in Delhi granted bail to the duo on October 6, 2017. They have surrendered their passports as directed by court. They have been summoned by the agency for questioning two to three times and have given their explanation. Nothing more is left to be discussed at this stage," said the friend.
 
 While BP Yadav prefers to shuttle between his native town in Jaunpur and the city, a law graduate from  , Palash spends most of his time doing documentation for a stronger defence in times to come.
 
 Set up in 2015, Prasad Institute of Medical Sciences was directed not to admit students by ministry of health and family welfare affairs in June 2016 after Medical Council of India came back with negative feedback on the college facilities.
 
 However sometime later, Oversight Committee which was set up by Supreme Court to supervise functioning of MCI issued permission to promoters to run the college with some conditions. The MCI, then, carried out a fresh inspection and once again filed an adverse report before Union health ministry in May 2017.
 
 The ministry barred college from admitting students for 2017-18 and 2018-19 academic sessions and MCI was authorized to encash Rs 2 crore bank guarantee. In June 2017, promoters of Prasad Institute approached high court for relief.  , meanwhile, set August 31 as the cut-off date for admissions to medical colleges in the country and barred high courts from issuing any interim order for admission to medical colleges. However, four day after this, a Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court allowed two Lucknow colleges, including Prasad institute, to admit students for the session 2016-17. 
 
 The MCI then approached the   again, seeking an urgent hearing. The apex court stayed the order and passed a direction to test the propriety of the HC's order. 
 
 Meanwhile a PIL filed by an NGO alleging judges' involvement in the scam requested hearing before a bench headed by Justice Chelameswar in December last year. Another petition in this regard made a similar request. But, as per the practice in the SC, the petition got referred to the CJI assigned the case to a bench of Justices R K Agrawal, Arun Mishra and A M Khanwilkar, who were relatively junior. This trigger the unrest among senior judges.
 
 CBI had filed FIR against Quddusi and promoters of Prasad institute on September 21. "But till the time CBI files charge-sheet to ascertain the role of various stakeholders associated with the episode, the Yadav family has no option but to wait," said associate of Yadav family. 
 
 
