Ustad Pyarelal Wadali, the younger brother of the popular duo Wadali brothers, died in Amritsar   morning following a cardiac arrest. The singing duo was a regular at various events in Doon and had performed a number of times in the city. Doonites and singers who had a special bond with the duo share with us their memories of the Sufi singer. The duo has sang some famous Bollywood songs like Aye Rangrez Mere in Tanu Weds Manu (2011) and Ik Tu Hi Tu Hi in Mausam (2011).  
	 



 I met Wadali brothers at a concert in Chandigarh, few years ago. It was raining. After performing when I came down from the stage, someone told me that Wadali brothers were waiting to meet me and I went directly to meet them. Ek apna pan sa tha jo unse mil kar jo mehasoos hua. Pyarelalji was a very grounded person, so full of love for everyone - Kailash Kher The demise of Pyarelal Wadali ji is a big loss for the music industry and especially for sufi music lovers. Two years back, I met them in a concert in Mumbai and told them that I am their big fan. I love their song Tu Mane Ya Na Mane and have sang the song a number of times at many events. I remember singing the song at an ashram near my house in Rajpur a few years ago. - Jubin Nautiyal  Charanpreet Singh, an actor from Doon who was last seen in Haseena Parkar, says, "I have never seen someone so grounded and humble as the Wadali Brothers, despite being so popular. I have met them several times when I used to volunteer for the cultural festival Virasat in Doon. There was a specific shawl that he would wear before his performances. Pyarelalji was a big time foodie and loved Amritsari fish. Once, during a festival he asked us to get him Amritsari fish and was surprised to get a good one in Doon." Vijayshree, organiser of the cultural festival Virasat, who has known Pyarelal Wadali for the past 22 years, says, "It was 22 years ago that Virasat started and every year since then, the Wadali Brothers have performed in Doon. We would always contact Pyarelalji whom we used to call chachaji for concerts. Whenever I would call and ask him about his well being, he would say, 'Bas aapki duaon se zinda hun' and I would laugh back saying, 'Fir hum yeh duaein hamesha karte rahenge'. No matter what the time of concert was, he would always demand for a cup of tea before his performance. His demise is one of the biggest losses of my life. The last few times when I interacted with him, he was not well and sometime back, I got to know that both of his kidneys had stopped working. He was on dialysis and despite poor health he wanted to sing in concerts."