BENGALURU: A 10-month-old beagle which had been stolen by two   has been reunited with its  , thanks to the latter’s persistent efforts in tracking down his beloved pet. 

 The dog, Sinchu, went missing from Vigneshwara Nagar, off Magadi Road, last Saturday after its owner, Srinivas Murthy, bathed the canine and tied it to the house gate to dry. Srinivas, 35, and his father frantically searched the area but in vain. However, not one to give up, Srinivas continued the hunt. 
  
  
 He checked footage from CCTV cameras installed in houses and establishments on the street. To his luck, a piece of footage showed his beagle being whisked away by two unknown persons on a Hero Passion Pro bike. He zoomed into the footage but could only spot a few digits of the bike number.
  
  
 
 
 To join the dots, Srinivas searched the RTO website on Sunday and noted down five bike numbers matching the information he had. Next, he visited the RTO office to track down the culprits’ bike, where he learnt that one of the vehicles was registered with an address in Herohalli village, an area close to his residence. Armed with concrete information, Srinivas rushed to Byadarahalli police station and lodged a complaint of his pet having been stolen. 
 
 Acting swiftly, police inspector KP Sathya Narayana identified the bike owner by Monday morning and sent two constables along with Srinivas to summon him. “When we reached the house of a person called Sudarshan, I saw a frightened Sinchu sitting in a corner. I felt so relieved after seeing her. Sudarshan and his friend Satish, both residents of Herohalli, were taken into police custody,” Murthy told TOI.
 
 “We arrived in the nick of time as the duo had plans to sell of my dog. I’m thankful to police for their timely action,” Srinivas added. His family had bought Sinchu from Kalasipalya for Rs 17,000 about nine months ago.
 
 Inspector Narayana said Sudarshan and Sathish are diploma dropouts and had kept a watch on the beagle for a few days. “After they came to know it’s a costly dog, they decided to steal it to earn some easy money,” he added.
 
 
