AHMEDABAD: Puzzling suicide cases to unusual murders and   to  , forensic scientists in the country face all sorts of challenges on a daily basis. At the 24th   in Ahmedabad, experts spoke about some tough ones.

 When DNA nailed a serial rapist: 
 
 A case handled by FSL, MP, had a DNA sample from the scene of the rape of a minor victim. The sample matched with two previous cases of rape in the state where the victims were minors. The cops managed to nab the accused who changed his identity and address frequently as cases of sexual assault came to light.
 
 Negative fingerprint, positive result: A team from Central FSL of CBI probing the Vyapam scam of Madhya Pradesh were searching for thumbprints on an OMR sheet that had come for forensic analysis. The thumb prints were not properly recorded intentionally, and excess pressure was applied. The experts managed to develop a negative fingerprint from one of the papers and enhance it. The method found an identical match to one of the suspects.
 
 Firing standard bullets from country-made firearms:
 
 In a case handled by the Central FSL of the CBI, experts came across a case where the accused had changed the calibre of a .315” rifle to .30-06”. Due to the difference, crimes committed by the country-made firearm would send police searching for a licensed firearm. A nexus of engineers, machine operators and gun shop owners was busted.
 
 Flames don’t lie: A photograph was presented to experts at FSL Kolkata for examination where an insurance claim due to fire was presented. When the experts minutely studied the photograph of a fire in gunnysacks containing potatoes, they found the use of the stamping technique of photo editing, with similar patches of the same set of flames at four different parts of the photograph, which is not possible under natural circumstances. 
 
 Future course of the discipline discussed 
 
 On the last day of the conference, a group discussion titled ‘Bridging the gap between academia and forensic field practitioners - Way Forward’ took place, where GU V-C Prof Himanshu Pandya and the organizing secretary of conference K V Ravi Kumar participated with other experts. Organizers said the panelists advocated for the formation of a forensic council, to look after affairs of forensic science education and implement a uniform syllabus across the country. They also advocated quality checks and opportunities for students in the private sector. The experts also suggested reservations for forensic experts in police recruitment. One suggestion was to create a national research repository so that there is no duplication of projects.
 
 
