BHOPAL: Hike in parking fee at   railway station has commuters looking for other spots. The parking spot near Regional Transport Office (RTO) and Mansarover Complex are the most-preferred destinations now.

 “The number of vehicles parked at the station has come down to around 100 after the fee hike. Earlier, over 600 vehicles used to be parked at Habibganj,” said  , a parking operator.
 
 
  
  
 
 Commuters now prefer nearby spots for obvious reasons.  , a parking operator, confirmed, “The number of vehicles parked near RTO has increased ever since parking fee was hiked at Habibganj. Now, we have over 20 to 30 more vehicles due to lower rates.” Similarly, Mansarover Complex is also witnessing a significant rise in number of vehicles. “Around 150 more vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, are being parked here. Earlier, the number was around 250,” said parking operator Manoj Tanojia.
 
 Manoj Srivastava, who commutes daily to Habibganj to board a train for  , said, “I prefer BMC’s smart parking or spots near the railway station as rates there are much lower than that of Habibganj.” Another commuter Anita Khandelwal said, “I and my colleagues have started parking our vehicles at privately-owned spots because of the huge difference in rates.” Many vehicles can be seen parked in noparking zone on the stretch of road in front of railway station.
 
 Rakesh Makhija, who runs a snacks stall near the station, said, “Many people have started parking their vehicles along the road to avoid paying hefty fee at the station. They even pay us to keep an eye on their vehicles.” Though parking fee at Habibganj was reduced after protests by commuters on February 11, the rates are still very high. The private company, which has the contract of revamp of Habibganj railway station, charges Rs 10 for two-wheelers for first two hours excluding 15-minute free parking time. After two hours, Rs 15 is added for every two hours. A 12-hour long parking of two-wheelers at Habibganj costs Rs 12,000 and Rs 995 for monthly season ticket holders. The monthly pass costs Rs 200 only at nearby spots.
 
 For four-wheelers, Rs 20 is charged for first two hours excluding 15-minute free time. The fee increases by Rs 40 for every second hour. The 12-hour long parking of four-wheelers costs Rs 12,000 and Rs 5,995 for MST holders.
 
