PUNE: Green Chillies are bringing tears to the eyes of exporters in the new year. The   recently added India’s “peppers” (except capsicum) in the “high-risk category” for pesticide residues.

 Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) officials claimed that 10% pepper export from India would now be randomly tested at European destinations for pesticide residues. Consequently, close to 90% of pepper export shipments from the state had stopped, a top source in the export association told TOI.
 
 Maharashtra,  , Karnataka and   are major pepper exporters in the country. An APEDA official said the   added green chillies in the high-risk category, effective from January 1.
 
 The European Union regulation said, “In particular, for consignments of peppers (Capsicum spp.) from India and Pakistan, the relevant sources of information indicate the emergence of new risks, requiring the introduction of an increased level of official controls. Entries concerning those consignments should, therefore, be included in the list.”
 
 The commission laid down rules concerning the increased level of official controls to be carried out on imports of feed and food in ‘the list’ at the points of entry into the territories referred to in the regulation.
 
 A source in Vegetables and Fruits Exporters’ Association (VAFA) told TOI that chillies from India were being tested by   as they were not pesticide free. “The exporters have been suddenly burdened by this, though it is the state horticulture department’s responsibility to ensure residue free chillies,” said a source.
 
 Maharashtra is a major exporter of green chilies, coming mainly from Pune, Buldhana, Nagpur, Nashik and Satara. “Close to 90% of chilli export consignments from the state have stopped going to EU countries since January 1. We are checking for pesticide residues from our end,” he said.
 
 Exporter Umesh Gade said only organic chillies were currently being sent to EU countries. “Organic chillies are in short supply, which means only 10% of the total consignments are being sent to these countries. If an exporter was sending a tonne of chillies before January 1, the figure has come down to 200kg,” said Gade.
 
 Manoj Barai from MK Exports said close to 60% of India’s chilli export consignments come from Maharashtra. “Around 30% of India’s total chilli export is to EU countries. No chili consignment from my firm is currently going to the EU countries, as against the 6 tonnes of green chillies I was exporting earlier,” he said.
 
