GREATER NOIDA: Six persons, including the chairman of the nagar panchayat in  , were   on Friday for allegedly calling off a   at the last minute as the bride’s family did not meet their demand for an SUV as dowry.

 The complainant, Nasimul Haq, a resident of   in  , said his sister’s marriage had been fixed with the brother of Sabir Ali, the chairman of the nagar panchayat in Bilaspur. The families had held an engagement ceremony on June 15 last year and fixed the wedding on February 27.
 
 “Everything was going fine and we had made all preparations for the wedding. Meanwhile, the groom’s family asked for a Royal Enfield bike. We agreed to their demand. However, a day before marriage, they called us to their residence and demanded a   as dowry,” he said.
 
 Haq said he expressed his inability to meet the demands as the family had already spent a lot of money in preparations for the wedding. 
 
 “On February 27, we waited for the baraat, but they did not come. We also made several calls, but no one responded. All the goods and arrangements were spoilt. We suffered a loss of nearly Rs 4 lakh,” he said.
 
 The complainant said he visited the residence of the bridegroom to enquire about the issue. But the family members verbally abused him and asked him to leave the place, he alleged.
 
 However, Ali said the marriage was not called off because of dowry demands.
 
 “We had some differences over the wedding schedule. We had planned that the baraat would reach the bride’s place at 7pm as previously discussed. We had sent invites to our relatives and friends and made arrangements accordingly,” Ali said.
 
 “However, the bride’s family later informed us that they would first offer feast to the local people and then serve the baraatis. So, they asked us to come at 9.30pm, but since we did not agree with this proposal, we called off the wedding,” he added.
 
 Farmood Ali Pundir, SHO, Dankaur police station said that based on the complaint, a case has been registered against the groom, Shahid, and his five family members, Sabir, Abid, Najma, Ayub and  . “We are investigating the matter,” he said.
 
 
