CHANDIGARH: Displeased after the Panjab University syndicate approved 10%   for new admissions and 5% for ongoing classes, the student bodies have termed it as the failure of   ( ) who had won the varsity elections on the promise that the fee won’t be increased.

 
  
 
 “The decision is a clear failure of the student council leadership that they were not able to prevent this hike. During last year’s elections, fee hike was the main issue among students who were not in favour of the move,” said   member Harmanjot Singh Gill.
 
 However, PUCSC secretary Vani Sood said, “The politics in Panjab University has reached an all-time low. Instead of standing with the student council and protesting on a common platform against the decision to increase the fee, all the student parties used the issue for their political leverage. They are overlooking the facts that are out in the open.”
 
 “During the initial meeting, the authorities had proposed a hike of 20% for the new session and 10% for ongoing classes, and it was only after the Student Council protested against this hike in the subsequent meetings that it was reduced to 10% for the new session and 5% for ongoing classes,” Sood added.
 
 Last year, all student outfits had launched protests against the fee hike with the campus turning violent on April 11, 2017. The police had even booked 68 students for causing violence. The hike suggested to generate revenue for the cash-strapped university was later withdrawn. Now, PU senate will take up the matter for the final approval.
 
 The tuition fee after a hike of 10% for new admission in BSc (hons) is Rs 11, 415 while the same is Rs 10, 375 for ongoing classes. The revised tuition fee for BA (hons) in economics is Rs 16,005 for the new admissions and for the ongoing classes, the fee would be Rs 14, 955. The proposed fee for new admissions in 2018-19 session for B Pharmacy is Rs 14,595 and Rs 13,545 for students already enrolled.
 
 In order to rationalize the fee, the appointed committee had decided to reduce the minimum annual increase for all traditional and professional courses from the previously recommended amount of Rs 1,000 to Rs 750. Earlier, the annual enhancement in the tuition fee of University Institute of Applied Management Sciences (UIAMS) was proposed to be Rs 7,500 per annum, but when the committee decided to rationalize the fee structure, the annual hike in the UIAMS tuition fee was reduced to Rs 6,000.
 
 “Merely because the student council did not disrupt the everyday life of the students and residents by staging protests, closing gates and blackmailing authorities by threatening them with hunger strikes, does not mean that we did not protest,” added Sood.
 
 The massive fee hike in April 2017 was suggested to generate revenue for the cash-strapped University. However, this was followed by the MHRD/UGC increasing the grants of the university by 6% and the Punjab government had also increased its grants for the varsity.
 
 
