Nagpur: Barely two weeks after blunder in Bachelor of Business Adminstration (BBA) exam by Nagpur University (NU), the second-semester Master of Social Work (MSW) students were distributed   on the first day of their exam at several centres in the city on Tuesday.

 While some students were quick to notice the anomaly, others at several centres took sometime as a couple of questions were same. The students were appearing in ‘Method Course III’ as per Choice Based Credit System (CBCS). The same paper as per Credit Based System (CBS) too was scheduled on the same day.
 
 The MSW students informed centre officials, who then cross-checked the e-mail sent by exam section. According to the centre officials, the NU had forwarded only one set of question paper which was distributed. Later, the correct set was mailed and the paper restarted.
 
 However, the blunder caused a delay of half-an-hour as well as loss of space in answersheets to those who had started writing.
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is handling the exam section and often credited for implementation of online system, didn’t answer to TOI’s calls. Recently while talking about glitches in hall tickets and marklists, Yeole had defended the section saying the “system was perfect as on date”. He had blamed the students and colleges for faults in exam work.
 
 Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation Neeraj Khaty said no complaint was reported to him.
 
 On March 20, hundreds of Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) final-year students too were distributed wrong question papers on the first day of their exam across different centres. The incident led to loss of crucial time and confusion among students and centre officials.
 
 Initially, the exam section had blamed the centres for distributing wrong question paper only to make a U-turn and admit mistake by its Moderation Committee which had inserted the papers in wrong envelope.
 
 Interestingly, the NU messed up with MSW question papers on the same day when it conducted the optional re-exam for BBA third year students.
 
 
