MUMBAI: When 53-year-old Kandivli businessman Dilip Sampat met with an accident two years ago, his wife and two daughters were, at first, shocked to hear that he was brain dead. But after a few rounds of counselling by the hospital staff, they were ready for what is considered the most altruistic gift of all: donation of his organs.

 His 20-year-old daughter Bhagyashree said donating his organs seemed to be the best way. “We didn’t want to keep him strapped to the life support system till his body crashed. Why prolong it?” asked Bhagyashree, who is a postgraduate medical student now.
 
  
 In the last three years, deceased organ donations have been steadily increasing across some cities in India. In Mumbai, cadaveric organ donations rose to 57 in 2017 from less than half the number in 2014. Cities such as Pune and Surat managed organ donations in double digits. Experts say this is due to growing awareness about organ donation combined with willingness among youngsters to donate.
 
 Aniruddha Kulkarni, the transplant coordinator at Jupiter Hospital, Thane, said that the conversion rate (for organ donation) is higher when a young family member has to be counselled about organ donation. “Youngsters can motivate other family members,” said Dr S K Mathur, who heads the   ( ). Indeed, youngsters have emerged as the biggest group to have pledged their organs; a pledge means the person is willing to donate his/her organs in case they become brain dead.
 
 Thane residents 27-year-old Arnab Ghosh and 31-year-old brother Abhimanyu Ghosh signed the pledge right after they donated their 55-year-old father Ashish’s organs in August 2016.
 
 “My father suffered a brain bleed at work and was declared brain dead,” recalled Arnab. The family vaguely knew about organ donation, but not in great detail. It appealed to them that their father would “continue to live in five persons even after his death”. The brothers thereafter convinced their cousins and friends to pledge organs as well.
 
 Mira Road resident Sonia Satam became a young widow when her 35-year-old husband Shekhar met with a road accident in July 2016. Egged by an aunt who was a nurse, she donated her husband’s organs.
 
 But youngsters feel there is a need to organise organ donations better. “We need better and well-defined protocols so that families who are already traumatised by the brain death of their loved one, don’t have to run around police stations for permissions,” said Bhagyashree.
 
 Arnab said there needs to better awareness about the law. “At one of the felicitation ceremonies held by the ZTCC, one of the donor families said they had met the patients who had received their loved one’s organs. The law doesn’t permit this,” said Arnab. The law prohibits such meetings to prevent any future legal complications between the donor and recipient families. “It is also unethical to arrange such meetings. People need to be better educated,” he added. Bhagyashree said that families that are educated would be willing to donate. “The government hence needs to focus on awareness drives.”
 
 
