MUMBAI:   has, for the second time in less than 24 hours, defended CEO Chanda Kochhar’s position with respect to allegations that her husband Deepak Kochhar’s company received quid pro quo benefits from loans extended by the bank to the   group.
 
 Addressing the media on Thursday, the bank’s chairman   said that ICICI Bank had satisfactorily replied to all questions raised by regulators on the case. He said that Kochhar was part of the credit committee meeting that sanctioned loans to the Videocon group as she had no reason to recuse herself from the meeting. He reiterated that there was no conflict of interest as Videocon group was not an investor in  .
 
 Without specifically referring to   or Videocon, Sharma said that   had made all the disclosures to the board in advance in accordance with regulatory guidelines.
 
 Videocon group chairman Venugopal Dhoot said that his investment in Supreme Industries – the company alleged to have invested in Deepak Kocchar-promoted NuPower Renewables – was only in thousands of rupees and a temporary one. He denied that any Videocon group company had funded NuPower when he was an investor in Supreme.
 
 The allegations of a quid pro quo investment first cropped up in 2016 when a whistleblowing shareholder raised it. The bank had at that time too said that decisions were taken by a credit committee and that Kochhar had not headed the committee. In January 2018 State Bank of India filed insolvency proceedings against   and Videocon Telecommunications following a default.
 
 Sharma reiterated the bank’s Wednesday statement that ICICI Bank’s loans to Videocon were as part of a consortium of over 20 banks and financial institutions which had sanctioned facilities to the Videocon group (Videocon Industries and 12 of its subsidiaries/ associates as co-obligors) for a debt consolidation programme and for the group’s oil and gas capital expenditure programme aggregating approximately Rs 40,000 crore.
 
 He also said that the amount lent was not handed over to Videocon but placed in an escrow account controlled by the lead bank. “ICICI Bank was not the lead bank for this consortium and the bank only sanctioned its share of facilities aggregating approximately Rs 3250 crore which was less than 10% of the total consortium facility in April 2012,” Sharma said.
 
