NEW DELHI: The opposition will raise the issue of “bank scam”, focused on the flight of   and Mehul Choksi, when the Budget session of   resumes on Monday, with the anti-BJP camp seeking a resolution on the issue to embarrass the government. 

 Deputy leader of opposition Anand Sharma has sought a discussion on “bank scam” in   with a demand that a resolution be passed to highlight the complicity of government in allowing Modi-Choksi to leave the country after defrauding banks. 
 
 The issue will also be the opposition’s focus in  . The opposition appears to be on the same page on cornering the government after a division in its ranks in the first half of the budget session helped the Centre defeat the amendments moved by   and the Left in the motion of thanks to the President’s address. 
 
 BJP’s sweep of three northeastern states just ahead of the start of Parliament has dampened the spirits in the opposition camp. But, many spot a consolation for the ‘secular bloc’ — that signs of BJP’s strengthening will force its members, especially Trinamool Congress, to close ranks. If it happens, then the government could face vociferous protests even in Lok Sabha where it has brute majority. 
 
 Congress and allies are keen to revert the focus to the bank scam which is seen as embarrassing for the Modi regime, a senior leader said. The strategy revolves around the anxiety that results of polls in the north-east do not influence the atmospherics of the Karnataka campaign. 
 
 There is a realisation that the treasury benches will seek to counter the opposition’s aggression on graft by pointing to the arrest of Karti Chidambaram, son of former finance minister  , in an alleged corruption case. But Congress has readied its argument which it believes will blunt the counter-attack. “Karti went abroad with the court’s permission and returned home. 
 
 Modi-Choksi were allowed to flee despite warnings about their activities and their intent to quit the country,” a Congress strategist said“We want a detailed discussion on the bank scam along with a resolution on the issue,” Anand Sharma added. The Lok Sabha group of Congress also wants to highlight the Meghalaya governor’s decision to not invite the party to form the government despite being the single largest outfit, as also the Rafale deal.
 
