JAIPUR: Roads in   will be pothole free by December this year, announced public works department ( ), minister,  , while replying to the budget in the house on Tuesday. 

 The minister informed, after carrying out a survey by different agencies, PWD has identified 14,100 km roads in dilapidated condition. The state government would carry out the repair works of these roads after spending Rs 2290 crore.
 
 He invited the MLA’s from both the parties to verify the survey in their constituencies and demanded to suggest more roads for repair works which are in dilapidated condition and missed spot in survey. 
 
 “The tenders to carry out repair work of 14,100 km will be carried out by February end. Other than this, after taking Rs 800 crore loan from National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard), under Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF) work to repair 5,000 km will be taken. Moreover, we have received a concept letter from Centre, for taking up 7000 km road work under the Pradhan Mantri Gram   (PMGSY), phase-2 . By December 2018, we would not leave pot-hole on any road,” said minister.
 
 Minister further said, it will be challenge for the government to carry out this work as Rajasthan does not large number of contractors. As monsoon is approaching, to invite tender and work orders would be a herculean job . However, our government accept this challenge. 
 
 Appraising the house about the achievement of his department, minister said, in four years of BJP tenure, the department has constructed 21,815 km roads. “On an average road construction in Rajasthan has been 14.43 km per day. The department is connecting four villages or hamlet in a day. This is the highest in the country.” claimed the minister 
 
 As the work for the construction of 47-km Ring road in Jaipur has been handed over to the   (NHAI), the Union minister Nitin Gadkari and awarded firm has assured to complete the work six months before the deadline, claimed PWD minister. 
 
 Minister said, the four-laning of   section, which was pending since long has been taken by the PWD in this tenure. In the house , he claimed former, chief minister,   has also appreciated the department for taking up this project. 
 
 It was also announced Rs 1,200 crore has been sanctioned to construct ring road in Jodhpur. 
 
 
