Over the course of 2017, we have seen a lot of beauty trends — both wonderful and weird — that practically took over our social media feed. And just when you thought that the make-up gurus have run out of ideas and new trends, they serve up more trends that may create a trending stir in 2018 as well. And some of these trends are a blast from the past. Here are a few of those bizarre trends ready to stir up the web this year... some of them much weirder than last years.

 
 Everyone has been avoiding clumps like it’s a disease… with buying products that promise natural and beautiful results. But recently this spidery look has been all over the internet. The best part is it takes just two steps to accomplish. Apply a coat or two of your mascara and then dab the bristles over your lashes, thus helping it form the clumps.
 
 
 We have seen eyebrow trends such as   eyebrows, squiggly eyebrows, braided eyebrows etc… but now to take on the trend, we have the cherry on the top which is crown brows and foil eyebrows. The crown browns were created by an 18-year-old make-up artist from Denmark. She used some Vaseline and clear gel to spike up her eyebrows. And to top it off, she stuck some silver rhinestones on the top. For the foil eyebrows, simply cut pieces of foil either one big strip or small bits and stick it on using some eyelash glue. And voila, you are one among the new!
 
 
 It looks slightly bizarre, and not something that everyone would try out. But it sure does qualify as a social media-worthy trend. Going for a bright colour isn’t something new. But going for two? It’s weird but people are loving it.
 
 
 The new must-have beauty product for everyone is the highlighter. With one sweep, it makes your face look glowing as ever. Most highlighters are made from a powder or a cream base, but now to take center stage, the slime highlighter has arrived. Yup! Slime…
 
 
 Misplaced your beauty blender? Do not worry, because if you have a fidget spinner, you have found your replacement. This stress-relieving toy has officially made its way into makeup bags as well. Though it is becoming a thing of the past, there is still place for it in the world of contouring.
 
 
 Looks like this year’s bizzare makeup trends have found its new culprit; a man’s beard. And they went all out for it. It’s not a specific length or shape. It’s more like an accessory. Well, if you can call glitter an accessory then yes...it makes sense as men are now using glitter in their beard. You read it right! Full-blown glitter that sticks to a man’s beard. And no it’s not a small portion it’s the full beard.
 
 
 
 
 
