BHOPAL: Two years after the death of her son, allegedly in a road accident, the woman   has been shuttling from one police station to another for justice. Failing to convince the cops, the distraught mother is planning to move the   high court. 

 After the death of her son Aditya Mishra, Kismat knocked the doors of police and after failing to get proper response about the cause of death which was being passed as an accident she tried to get details about it on her own. With whatever little evidences and CCTV footage she could gather, she was convinced that her son's death was suspicious and her evidences stunned the cops. But, she couldn't convince the police.
 
 Aditya (19), a first-year engineering student, was found dead on the roadside in Ayodhya Nagar area on October 22, 2015. Police were prepared to close the case as an accident (unknown vehicle, no witnesses) but his mother, who lived in Sagar that time, was not convinced. Realising that police were not interested in the case, she started a parallel investigation. She visited the accident site and found out that the car would have had to veer at least five feet off the road to hit Aditya, who was walking with a friend.
 
 After retrieving deleted CCTV footage from the police HQ, she filtered out a grainy picture of the driver, identified the number plate, tracked the car down to a field in Raisen, dug up two eyewitnesses and turned around to ask the cops: "If I could find out so muchby being a homemaker, why can't you find my son Aditya's killer?"
 
 The facts and evidence she collected stunned the senior officers and the case was transferred from Ayodhya Nagar to Bilkheria police station and two cops were transferred. Once she tracked down the car and the photos ended up in the court, the owner presented his driver before police as the accused.
 
 She also forced the police to conduct a polygraph test on two persons, who were related to the case. Besides, she got the CCTV footage sent to Gujarat to get a clear image of the driver. Police said the reports of polygraph test and CCTV footage have come, but were inconclusive. 
 
 Kismat alleges that her son was killed. "I am fighting for the last over two years, but the cops are fooling me and buying time. 
 
 In past two years, the woman has visited police officials from district police to police headquarters to secretariat dozens of time. Director general of police ordered CID to conduct the investigation close to a year back, but nothing really happened.
 
 "ADG, CID gave me a letter on November 16 and asked me to meet DIG, Bhopal. When I met DIG,   he ordered, additional SP, crime, Rashmi Mishra to look into the case, but she has stopped taking my calls now", Kismat said. 
 
 Rashmi Mishra told TOI "I have looked into it and asked SHO, Ayodhya Nagar to incorporate some points in his investigation". SHO, Ayodhya Nagar, Baljeet Singh said investigation is still on."
 
 "My lawyer would be moving a petition in Higher Court soon and I would appeal to court to hand over the investigation to any other agency, if police is unable to do the needful, she added. 
 
  
  
 
 
