In the latest episode of  ,   and Sodhi decide to tell   the truth. They tell him how the kids caused Sakharam's accident. They narrate the entire episode to Popat. 

 They also apologise to Popat as they blamed him for the mistake of their kids. This makes Popat furious and he makes a pretend call to  , revealing everything to him. Sodhi and Jetha get nervous at that. Popat then tells them that he was having fun with them and he'd keep this a secret. 
 
 Jetha then gets a call from Mehta, and the latter asks him if they have reached the station to file a complaint. Jetha tells him they are on the way. After disconnecting the call, Popat tells them that they would have to cancel their plan of seeking help from the police. 
 
 He also tells them that the blame would fall on Sodhi as the police would first go to his garage. Jethalal, however, counters Popat by telling him that they would file the complaint, but as soon as the scooter will come back, they would inform the police about the same.
 
 Popat tells him that the police would not let them go easily even after the scooter is found. They would be asked several questions. Jetha and Sodhi find themselves in a fix. Popat suggest Sodhi to call his mechanic and see if the repair work has been done. Sodhi does so and finds out that the scooter will take one hour more than the usual time.
 
 Bhide, Popat and Sodhi then find an astrologer, who is seen helping a man find his wife. Jetha then suggests they ask the astrologer to come with them and cool down Bhide's anger. The astrologer becomes angry for trying to bribe him. 
 
 Jethalal then decides to ask   to become a 'baba' for them temporarily. The former calls the latter and Nattu Kaka tells him that he was thinking of him while having 'ras puri'. Jethalal tells him the problem he is in due to his kids and Baga. 
 
 Nattu Kaka is furious to learn that Baga fooled him all along. Jethalal then tells him to dress up as an astrologer and help them pass Bhide's time till Sakharam returns to the society's compound. Nattu Kaka refuses initially but then gives in on Jetha's behest. 
 
 
