Diganta.Guha@timesgroup.com

 Chandigarh: A century wasn’t good enough for him to retain his place in the playing XI. It was December 11, 2011, when   scored an unbeaten 104 against West Indies in Chennai, but was dropped the next match.
 
 Tiwary had to wait till July 31, 2012 to don the India colours again. And, this time he sparkled with the ball, returning with figures of 4 for 61 against Sri Lanka. He followed it up with a useful knock of 65 in the next match. Since his all-round exploits in Sri Lanka, Tiwary played just four more games for the Indian team. His last was against Zimbabwe on July 14, 2015.
 
 Now 32, Tiwary has slid down the ladder in the scheme of national selectors. This year, however, the Bengal middle-order bat has been in superb form – especially in limited-overs format.
 
 The attractive right-hander scored 328 runs at an average of 109.33 and a strike-rate of 94.52 in the Vijay Hazare Trophy for Bengal. He then smashed 179 runs – maintaining a strike-rate of 111.18 – in the subsequent Deodhar Trophy, while playing for India B.
 
 Recent form is on his side, and Tiwary hopes he can carry his good form into the   for  .
 
 “When you have runs under your belt, you brim with confidence. I am thankful to Kings XI Punjab for showing faith in me. I want to contribute as much as I can. I want to be a perfect team man,” Tiwary told TOI.
 
 Tiwary has added a few more strings to his bow, recently. He has been bowling regularly for Bengal in limited-overs cricket. The novelty this season from him has been the low, round-arm bowling – similar to what Kedar Jadhav dishes out in international cricket. That kind of bowling has brought him decent amount of success too. He has been able to churn out economical overs for his team.
 
 “I worked a lot on my bowling in the off season. I wanted to be of as much utility for the team as possible. I feel all-round performances would also draw the attention of the national selectors,” said Tiwary.
 
 “The all-rounder’s spot is still up for grabs (in the Indian team). I am eyeing that. And, I feel age is no bar. There are cricketers who have made comebacks at the age of 40. I am fit and in form. I desire to play for the country – at least in the limited-overs format,” he added.
 
 With box-office names like Chris Gayle, Yuvraj Singh, Aaron Finch, Ravichandran Ashwin, David Miller, KL Rahul in their side, Tiwary believes Kings XI can go all the way and clinch the IPL title this time.
 
 “We have a great side this year. Be it batting or bowling, it’s a very balanced team. Gayle, Yuvraj, Rahul, Finch, Miller are all match-winners and can win a game on their own. In the bowling department, Ashwin, Mohit Sharma and Axar Patel can be very dangerous as well,” underlined Tiwary.
 
 He also professed that this would be Gayle’s best season in IPL. “He (Gayle) must have been very hurt after he initially went unsold in the auction. He will be determined and I am sure this will be his best-ever IPL.” 
 
 Tiwary also reposed his confidence in Ashwin’s captaincy. “What I like about him is that he is always one step ahead. He is a very intelligent man and has a mind of his own. Having played under (MS) Dhoni, Ashwin must have gained a lot in terms of leadership acumen. I am sure he is going to lead the team to glory this year.”
 
 Tiwary, who shared the dressing room with Ashwin as part of Rising Pune Supergiants team in 2016, added, “I am open to help him (Ashwin) in every way possible.”
 
 The Bengal skipper is also eager to interact with Virender Sehwag, Kings XI’s team director. “For him (Sehwag), I have a different level of respect. I am really eager to spend time with him; and I am sure, I would benefit massively from his tips and suggestions. The best part about Viru paa is that he is very honest and open-minded. He doesn’t mince words,” expressed Tiwary.
 
 Talking about his batting, and the changes he brought in his game to reap rewards this season, Tiwary said, “I analysed my game during the off season. I have this habit of watching the videos of my innings and after that consult my coach, who suggests what is needed to be done to improve my game. I made a slight change to my bat lift and adjusted my downswing.”
 
 “And, it run-scoring is also about adapting to different situations. In T20, there is hardly any time – so you have to make quick adjustments, no matter where you bat. The mindset is very important and one has to constantly train the mind to in order to deliver consistent results,” he added.
 
 If one goes back in time, it was Tiwary who finished the game for Kolkata Knight Riders to give the Gautam Gambhir-led side its first IPL title in 2012. Last year, too, he played quite a few pivotal knocks for Rising Pune Supergiants, ending with an average of 32.40. Needless to say, this year too Tiwary will play a crucial role in shaping Kings XI Punjab’s fortunes.
 
 
