LUDHIANA: Two days after the son of a police sub-inspector was found dead in his Ford Figo car in Sudhar near here, police arrested a cop on Monday, saying the youth died of a drug overdose after injecting a drug along with the constable.

 Constable Davinder Singh, who hails from Bajakhana in Faridkot, is posted at   police station in  . He was arrested in the morning, after police procured call details of the deceased, Jivanjyot Singh (24), and found that he phoned Davinder around 12.15pm on Friday, a day before his death.
 
 When they had found Jivanjyot’s body on Saturday morning, police had recovered a syringe and a white-coloured powder, suspected to be heroin, from the vehicle. All along, they had been suspecting it to be a case of drug overdose. Ludhiana Rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surjeet Singh said Davinder told the police that he came in touch with Jivanjyot at a deaddiction centre in Patiala in January. “On Friday, they injected the drug while driving around in Moga. While Davinder passed out for 15 minutes, the youth died,” said the SSP.
 
 Davinder told the police that he then placed the youth’s body in the boot of the car and drove to the spot near Hissowal, on the Mullanpur-Sudhar road, where the body was later found. He then placed the body in the driver’s seat and fled from the spot.
 
 Jivanjyot is the son of sub-inspector Gurmeet Singh, the SHO of Division VIII police station.
 
 On the day he died, Jivanjyot had phoned Davinder in the morning, but he was in Chandigarh. Later, the cop reached Ludhiana bus stand and Jivanjyot picked him up in his car from there. “After roaming around in Ludhiana, they went to Moga, where they injected the drug. The constable regained senses after fifteen minutes of injecting the drug, but found Jivanjyot dead,” the SSP said.
 
 The SSP added that CCTV footage had also revealed that Davinder was with Jivanjyot when he was last seen. “We will secure the police remand of the accused to get more details of the case. Only the viscera report will ascertain which drug killed Jivanjyot,” he added.
 
 Police said Davinder had arranged money for buying the drugs with great difficulty and the duo then bought the narcotic together. Though the post-mortem report was expected by Monday, police were still waiting for it when this story was filed.
 
 The SSP confirmed that they had not been able to recover the phone of the deceased youth so far.
 
 
 
 
 Ludhiana Rural SSP Surjeet Singh said constable Davinder Singh had switched off his phone on the day Jiwanjyot died. “His phone had not been switched on after 7.30pm,” said the SSP. Police officials said Davinder was in his uniform when he took the drug. They added that he had joined police in 2011.
 
 
 
 
 The father of accused cop, constable Davinder Singh, has told the police that his son had been hooked to drugs so bad that he would spend all his salary on it. Sources in Bajakhana said Davinder is married and has a six-month old daughter. “His father and wife had requested bank officials to not let him withdraw cash from his salary account,” said sources.
 
 
