CHANDIGARH: Respect for suffering masses and altruism are motivators for students taking up medical studies in low and middle income countries like India. In high income countries, students take up medicine for job security, social status and parental desires. 

 A meta analysis review by researchers led by a faculty member of the School of public health, PGI conducted a review study and selected 24 studies worldwide. Most of the studies, 16, were from high-income countries, followed by four each from upper-middle and lower-middle income countries. 
 
  
  
 
 Two researchers conducted independent search on PubMed,   Scholar,   and   database for articles published from 2006 to 2016. 
 
 The study, "What motivates medical students to select medical studies: a systematic literature review." has been recently published in BioMed Central-an international journal. All studies conducted and published from 2006 to 2016 were included in the review. 
 
 According to experts, as there is significant shortage of health workers across and within countries, it is important to determine factors that motivate students to opt for medical studies. 
 
 The review inferred that for low middle income countries, the desire to serve the poor is deeply ingrained in society." Here, medical students are more sensitive to the social needs of the population. The reasons identified to take up a medical career in these countries can be used to encourage students to take up medical studies. 
 
 Mainly, respect and feeling of altruism, followed by monetary and social benefits are the driving force used to attract students to the medical profession, hence improving the workforce," said Dr Sonu Goel, SPH, PGI, corresponding author of the study. 
 
 The predominance of factors varied among students in high, upper-middle and lower-middle income countries. The study aimed to offer cues to policy makers and educators in different countries and helping them understand motivational factors to formulate policy to tackle the shortage of health workers.
 
 
