NAGPUR: In a major relief for lakhs of students appearing for   exam, the evaluation boycott by teachers may end as talks between the state government and union on Tuesday ended on a positive note. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association ( ), claimed the government has agreed to most of their demands but teachers wanted that assurance in writing. 
 
 “Government said that all issues will be resolved and that our evaluation boycott must be taken back. While we are happy with the government’s current line of discussion,   along with other association wants to see something concrete,” said Gavhankar. Various associations that were part of the discussion with government officials demanded that an official circular be issued. “After the circular comes we will take back our boycott call,” said Gavhankar. 
  
 The general consensus is that by next week HSC evaluations will start. Shriram Chavhan, divisional secretary of Nagpur divisional board, said, “I have instructed all the paper custodians to keep answersheet bundles with them only till teachers come to pick it up for evaluation. The teachers union and government have already started their discussions and the matter may end very soon. So from our side we have to be prepared for the next step.” 
  
 Gavhankar, said, “We had multiple meetings yesterday where all top officials were present. For the last one, education minister   was present along with city MLC   and the overall tone of the discussion was extremely good. All members are eager to see their demands being fulfilled as promised earlier by the government.” 
  
 With every passing day the number of unchecked answersheets are piling up, and so is the pressure on everyone. The board knows it is crucial to start the evaluations as soon as possible while VJUCTA is aware that delaying too much will just add up pressure on their teachers. Gavhankar in fact told his members to not succumb to pressure stay strong during the boycott process. “We have advised members not to collect answer instruction sheets called dockets from the board office under any circumstances. If we stay strong and united, the government will have to listen to us,” said Gavhankar. 
  
  
