NEW DELHI: Poor   has emerged as a key factor why children are "not learning" in government and government-aided   across the country. A state-wise analysis of the National Achievement Survey 2017 for classes III, V and   has highlighted that not only do school buildings need significant repair, the learning environment also doesn't seem to be too conducive for teachers burdened by work overload, lack of drinking water and toilet facilities. In some state as high as 58% of the school buildings need significant repair, while nearly a quarter of the government and aided schools lacks drinking water and toilet facilities, as captured in the survey. 

 
 TOI had in one of the most comprehensive analysis of the NAS 2017 on February 24, 2018, highlighted how staff crunch, crowded classrooms and inadequate funds are to blame for poor learning outcomes in government schools as captured in the survey. The state-wise analysis was finalised by NCERT and submitted to the ministry of human resource development recently, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 While across states, over 95% students like coming to school - a large number of students find the travel difficult. Lack of electricity at many schools is also one of the major factors highlighted by teachers in the survey.
 
 Reading between the lines from the 700-district study which was released by the NCERT in December 2017, TOI found that students are learning less as they move to higher classes, a survey of over 2.2 lakh students in government schools in over 700 districts shows. On average, a class VIII student could barely answer 40% of the questions in maths, science and social studies. The national average score for language was a little better at about 56%.
 
 The findings raise doubts about the demographic dividend India hopes to reap because of a young population. Educationists, experts and rights' activists are not surprised. They say this is a result of insufficient investment in public   and the government's inability to implement the Right to Education Act (RTE) in letter and spirit.
 
 The state-wise analysis, a copy of which has been accessed by TOI from the MHRD, for example revealed that 58% of the schools in Arunachal Pradesh, 43% in Assam, 35% in Uttar Pradesh, 30% in Bihar and Madhya Pradesh are in need of significant repair of the buildings. 
 
 Similarly, even some basic necessities like drinking water and toilet facilities are still lacking in large number of state-funded schools across the country. In Uttar Pradesh, which TOI earlier highlighted as having the maximum number of worst performing districts in the learning outcome, 24% teachers responded saying there is lack of drinking water facilities, while 29% highlighted the lack of toilet facilities and 39% said there is lack of electricity in schools. Likewise, in West Bengal, 26% teachers said there is lack of drinking water and toilet facilities, while 9% of them said there is lack of electricity.
 
 These are just a few examples as the survey report in state after state highlighted similar data and pattern. Two other major factors highlighted in the survey was the difficulty students' face while travelling to school and "work overload" for teachers. And that number is also not low as on an average nearly 20% students "find difficult to travel to school," while equally large number of teachers are saying there are overloaded with work. 
 
 That proves the point what Ambarish Rai, national convener of RTE Forum, had to say that governments have failed to provide adequate funds for school education and implementation of the RTE Act. "RTE is a package for school development. We cannot look at any part of it in isolation." He said the RTE Act prescribes one teacher for every 30 students at the primary level, and for 35 students in higher classes, but these have not been implemented. The country is short of 10 lakh qualified teachers, he said.
 
 While Prof R Govinda, former vice-chancellor of National University of Educational Planning and Administration, said, "The results don't surprise since basic skills are not being inculcated and cumulatively, the deficit will increase. The results for the last 10 years have been the same, which means we have not done anything."
 
 
 
 
