MOHALI: In a bid to earn generate more revenue, the   has thrown the Outdoor Advertisement Bye-Laws 2014 in wind by allowing advertisement boards around and above the traffic light points and traffic islands, thus creating a palpable traffic hazard. 

 Violation of these laws can be witnessed on almost every light point, chowk, traffic island and roads of the city, where advertisements hoardings have been installed.
 
 Moreover, the foot over bridges in the city seem to be advantageous for the advertisers rather than pedestrians and city residents. Advertisements installed on foot over bridges were sighted in Phase 3/Phase 5 light point, 3B2/3B1 dividing road light point, 3B2/phase 7 light point. As per the Outdoor Advertisement Bye-Laws 2014 framed by   government, installation of advertisement boards, hoardings and any other instrument of advertisement are not allowed on near and above traffic light points, road junctions, traffic intersections, traffic islands or crossings. However, these by-laws are being indiscriminately in Mohali.
 
 The laws also state that an advertisement device may be considered a traffic hazard if it interferes with road safety or traffic efficiency. Moreover, if it hinders the effectiveness of a traffic control device (for example traffic light stop or give way sign) then also it will be construed as traffic hazard.
 
 As per the rules, advertisements are not allowed at any point where driver has to take a decision about directions. These illustrated and important road safety criteria have been compromised by the Mohali civic body. A permission criteria for advertisement installation is specified in Municipal Corporation, Mohali Outdoor Advertisement Bye-Laws 2014, which clearly states that ads can be installed at a distance of a few meters from the traffic junctions.
 
 As per the bye-laws, advertisement are not permitted within a minimum distance of 20 meters from the edge of traffic islands. Navdeep Asija, traffic advisor of Punjab, said, "These advertisements may distract the attention of drivers near traffic intersections. Hoarding and posters installed on light points and chowks also AFFECT the decision-making ability of drivers." "It violates the placement criteria as specified in the bye-laws of   which states that advertisements are permitted on traffic island, road junction or decision-making points," he added. He further stated that airport road and   chowk are accident prone areas. "But advertisement boards and hoardings installed there pose a danger to the motorists passing through," he said. He demanded stern action against the official who permitted the advertisement.
 
 
