GREATER NOIDA: The committee mandated to study the treatment meted out to foreign students at  , where a BTech student of Kenyan descent had alleged physical assault by the security guards of the varsity after he resisted frisking for a pack of cigarettes, has suggested various steps to curb the sale of cigarettes and drugs in the green belt area near the university. 

 
 The two-member committee comprising ADM (administration)   and SP (rural) Suniti, which looked into previous complaints heard by the university from or against the foreign students, has found that at least four such complaints have been received in the past one year, excluding the recent case of Abdul Tameem. 
 
 The committee was formed on March 30 to probe the allegations, while the university had termed the student a “habitual offender.”
 
 “These were small incidents about fights with other students or security personnel. The university has been directed to acquaint the foreign students and sensitise them towards the do’s and don’t s, Indian laws, local language and culture through a proper workshop to be held at an interval of three months. It has also been directed to train the security staff to deal with such situations,” said the ADM.
 
 Among the findings of the report, which will soon be submitted to the district magistrate, it has emerged that certain elements are “selling cigarettes and drugs in the green belt” near the varsity premises. In this regard, it has been decided to direct the local police, the district tobacco cell and the GNIDA to curb such incidents.
 
 Meanwhile, Tameem has given an affidavit to the   saying he had filed an FIR against the security guards and senior administrative officials of the Sharda University “because of manipulation by students” and that he does not want any legal action on any of the accused.
 
 The FIR was lodged under sections 147 (rioting), 352 (punishment for assault or criminal force), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC against 10 people, including the security guards and the vice-chancellor and registrar of the university. Sources said that police will file a final report in the case stating that the student has withdrawn the complaint. 
 
 Ajit Kumar, spokesperson for Sharda University said, repeated complaints have been made to local police about the sale of tobacco products. Now the SP has suggested that soon a nodal officer will be appointed to deal with complaints from institutions about illegal sale of tobacco products, drugs, etc. he said.
 
